<Header>
<FileStats>
    <FileName>20110225_10-K_edgar_data_1099219_0000950123-11-018077_1.txt</FileName>
    <GrossFileSize>134977407</GrossFileSize>
    <NetFileSize>3338319</NetFileSize>
    <NonText_DocumentType_Chars>23401280</NonText_DocumentType_Chars>
    <HTML_Chars>4887101</HTML_Chars>
    <XBRL_Chars>26220930</XBRL_Chars>
    <XML_Chars>75197336</XML_Chars>
    <N_Tables>304</N_Tables>
    <N_Exhibits>44</N_Exhibits>
</FileStats>
<SEC-Header>
0000950123-11-018077.hdr.sgml : 20130131

<ACCEPTANCE-DATETIME>20110224202514

<PRIVATE-TO-PUBLIC>

ACCESSION NUMBER:		0000950123-11-018077

CONFORMED SUBMISSION TYPE:	10-K

PUBLIC DOCUMENT COUNT:		284

CONFORMED PERIOD OF REPORT:	20101231

FILED AS OF DATE:		20110225

DATE AS OF CHANGE:		20110803


FILER:


	COMPANY DATA:	

		COMPANY CONFORMED NAME:			METLIFE INC

		CENTRAL INDEX KEY:			0001099219

		STANDARD INDUSTRIAL CLASSIFICATION:	LIFE INSURANCE [6311]

		IRS NUMBER:				134075851

		STATE OF INCORPORATION:			DE

		FISCAL YEAR END:			1231



	FILING VALUES:

		FORM TYPE:		10-K

		SEC ACT:		1934 Act

		SEC FILE NUMBER:	001-15787

		FILM NUMBER:		11638277



	BUSINESS ADDRESS:	

		STREET 1:		1095 AVENUE OF AMERICAS

		CITY:			NEW YORK

		STATE:			NY

		ZIP:			10036

		BUSINESS PHONE:		212-578-5500



	MAIL ADDRESS:	

		STREET 1:		1095 AVENUE OF AMERICAS

		CITY:			NEW YORK

		STATE:			NY

		ZIP:			10036




</SEC-Header>
</Header>

 0000950123-11-018077.txt : 20130131

10-K
 1
 y87657e10vk.htm
 FORM 10-K

e10vk 

Table of Contents   

UNITED
    STATES SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION  

Washington, D.C.
    20549  

Form 10-K   

Commission file number
     001-15787  

MetLife, Inc.  

(Exact name of registrant as
    specified in its charter)  

Securities registered pursuant to Section 12(b) of the
    Act: 

Title of each class  

Name of each exchange on which registered  

Common Stock, par value $0.01

New York Stock Exchange

Floating Rate Non-Cumulative Preferred Stock, Series A, par
    value $0.01

New York Stock Exchange

6.50% Non-Cumulative Preferred Stock, Series B, par value
    $0.01

New York Stock Exchange

5.875% Senior Notes

New York Stock Exchange

5.375% Senior Notes

Irish Stock Exchange

5.25% Senior Notes

Irish Stock Exchange

Securities registered pursuant to Section 12(g) of the
    Act: None 

Indicate by check mark if the registrant is a well-known
    seasoned issuer, as defined in Rule 405 of the Securities
    Act.  Yes         No   

Indicate by check mark if the registrant is not required to file
    reports pursuant to Section 13 or 15(d) of the
    Act.  Yes         No   

Indicate by check mark whether the registrant: (1) has
    filed all reports required to be filed by Section 13 or
    15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 during the
    preceding 12 months (or for such shorter period that the
    registrant was required to file such reports), and (2) has
    been subject to such filing requirements for the past
    90 days.  Yes         No   

Indicate by check mark whether the registrant has submitted
    electronically and posted on its corporate Web site, if any,
    every Interactive Data File required to be submitted and posted
    pursuant to Rule 405 of
     Regulation S-T 
    (  232.405 of this chapter) during the preceding
    12 months (or for such shorter period that the registrant
    was required to submit and post such
    files).  Yes         No   

Indicate by check mark if disclosure of delinquent filers
    pursuant to Item 405 of
     Regulation S-K 
    (  229.405 of this chapter) is not contained herein,
    and will not be contained, to the best of registrant s
    knowledge, in definitive proxy or information statements
    incorporated by reference in Part III of this
     Form 10-K 
    or any amendment to this
     Form 10-K.     

Indicate by check mark whether the registrant is a large
    accelerated filer, an accelerated filer, a non-accelerated
    filer, or a smaller reporting company. See the definitions of
     large accelerated filer,   accelerated
    filer  and  smaller reporting company  in
     Rule 12b-2 
    of the Exchange Act. (Check one):

Large accelerated
    filer   

Accelerated
    filer   

Non-accelerated
    filer      (Do
    not check if a smaller reporting company)

Smaller reporting
    company    

Indicate by check mark whether the registrant is a shell company
    (as defined in
     Rule 12b-2 
    of the Exchange
    Act).  Yes         No   

The aggregate market value of the voting and non-voting common
    equity held by non-affiliates of the registrant at June 30,
    2010 was approximately $31 billion. At February 18,
    2011, 986,585,463 shares of the registrant s common
    stock were outstanding.

DOCUMENTS
    INCORPORATED BY REFERENCE  

Part III of this
     Form 10-K 
    incorporates by reference certain information from the
    registrant s definitive proxy statement for the Annual
    Meeting of Shareholders to be held on April 26, 2011, to be
    filed by the registrant with the Securities and Exchange
    Commission pursuant to Regulation 14A not later than
    120 days after the year ended December 31, 2010. 

Table Of
    Contents  

Page 

Number 

Part I  

Item 1. 

Business 

4

Item 1A. 

Risk Factors 

28

Item 1B. 

Unresolved Staff Comments 

65

Item 2. 

Properties 

66

Item 3. 

Legal Proceedings 

66

Item 4. 

(Removed and Reserved) 

66

Part II  

Item 5. 

Market for Registrant s Common Equity,
    Related Stockholder Matters and Issuer Purchases of Equity
    Securities 

67

Item 6. 

Selected Financial Data 

69

Item 7. 

Management s Discussion and Analysis of
    Financial Condition and Results of Operations 

71

Item 7A. 

Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About
    Market Risk 

180

Item 8. 

Financial Statements and Supplementary Data 

191

Item 9. 

Changes in and Disagreements With Accountants on
    Accounting and Financial Disclosure 

192

Item 9A. 

Controls and Procedures 

192

Item 9B. 

Other Information 

194

Part III  

Item 10. 

Directors, Executive Officers and Corporate
    Governance 

195

Item 11. 

Executive Compensation 

195

Item 12. 

Security Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owners
    and Management and Related Stockholder Matters 

195

Item 13. 

Certain Relationships and Related Transactions,
    and Director Independence 

198

Item 14. 

Principal Accountant Fees and Services 

198

Part IV  

Item 15. 

Exhibits and Financial Statement Schedules 

199

Signatures  

200

Exhibit Index  

E-1

EX-3.6    
     EX-4.12    
     EX-4.13    
     EX-4.14    
     EX-4.41.A    
     EX-4.42    
     EX-4.43    
     EX-4.61    
     EX-4.69    
     EX-4.83    
     EX-4.86    
     EX-10.18    
     EX-10.19    
     EX-10.20    
     EX-10.29    
     EX-10.30    
     EX-10.31    
     EX-10.48    
     EX-10.52    
     EX-10.55    
     EX-10.57    
     EX-10.58    
     EX-10.65    
     EX-10.80    
     EX-10.82    
     EX-10.83    
     EX-10.96    
     EX-10.97    
     EX-10.98    
     EX-10.101    
     EX-10.102    
     EX-12.1    
     EX-21.1    
     EX-23.1    
     EX-31.1    
     EX-31.2    
     EX-32.1    
     EX-32.2    
     EX-101 INSTANCE DOCUMENT    
     EX-101 SCHEMA DOCUMENT    
     EX-101 CALCULATION LINKBASE DOCUMENT    
     EX-101 LABELS LINKBASE DOCUMENT    
     EX-101 PRESENTATION LINKBASE DOCUMENT    
     EX-101 DEFINITION LINKBASE DOCUMENT    

Table of Contents   

As used in this
     Form 10-K, 
     MetLife,  the  Company,   we, 
     our  and  us  refer to MetLife, Inc., a
    Delaware corporation incorporated in 1999 (the  Holding
    Company ), its subsidiaries and affiliates. 

Note
    Regarding Forward-Looking Statements  

This Annual Report on
     Form 10-K, 
    including Management s Discussion and Analysis of Financial
    Condition and Results of Operations, may contain or incorporate
    by reference information that includes or is based upon
    forward-looking statements within the meaning of the Private
    Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. Forward-looking
    statements give expectations or forecasts of future events.
    These statements can be identified by the fact that they do not
    relate strictly to historical or current facts. They use words
    such as  anticipate,   estimate, 
     expect,   project,   intend, 
     plan,   believe  and other words and terms
    of similar meaning in connection with a discussion of future
    operating or financial performance. In particular, these include
    statements relating to future actions, prospective services or
    products, future performance or results of current and
    anticipated services or products, sales efforts, expenses, the
    outcome of contingencies such as legal proceedings, trends in
    operations and financial results.

Any or all forward-looking statements may turn out to be wrong.
    They can be affected by inaccurate assumptions or by known or
    unknown risks and uncertainties. Many such factors will be
    important in determining the actual future results of MetLife,
    Inc., its subsidiaries and affiliates. These statements are
    based on current expectations and the current economic
    environment. They involve a number of risks and uncertainties
    that are difficult to predict. These statements are not
    guarantees of future performance. Actual results could differ
    materially from those expressed or implied in the
    forward-looking statements. Risks, uncertainties, and other
    factors that might cause such differences include the risks,
    uncertainties and other factors identified in MetLife,
    Inc. s filings with the U.S. Securities and Exchange
    Commission (the  SEC ). These factors include:
    (1) difficult conditions in the global capital markets;
    (2) increased volatility and disruption of the capital and
    credit markets, which may affect our ability to seek financing
    or access our credit facilities; (3) uncertainty about the
    effectiveness of the U.S. government s programs to
    stabilize the financial system, the imposition of fees relating
    thereto, or the promulgation of additional regulations;
    (4) impact of comprehensive financial services regulation
    reform on us; (5) exposure to financial and capital market
    risk; (6) changes in general economic conditions, including
    the performance of financial markets and interest rates, which
    may affect our ability to raise capital, generate fee income and
    market-related revenue and finance statutory reserve
    requirements and may require us to pledge collateral or make
    payments related to declines in value of specified assets;
    (7) potential liquidity and other risks resulting from our
    participation in a securities lending program and other
    transactions; (8) investment losses and defaults, and
    changes to investment valuations; (9) impairments of
    goodwill and realized losses or market value impairments to
    illiquid assets; (10) defaults on our mortgage loans;
    (11) the impairment of other financial institutions that
    could adversely affect our investments or business;
    (12) our ability to address unforeseen liabilities, asset
    impairments, loss of key contractual relationships, or rating
    actions arising from acquisitions or dispositions, including our
    acquisition of American Life Insurance Company ( American
    Life ), a subsidiary of ALICO Holdings LLC ( ALICO
    Holdings ), and Delaware American Life Insurance Company
    ( DelAm,  together with American Life, collectively,
     ALICO ) (the  Acquisition ) and to
    successfully integrate and manage the growth of acquired
    businesses with minimal disruption; (13) uncertainty with
    respect to the outcome of the closing agreement entered into
    between American Life and the United States Internal Revenue
    Service in connection with the Acquisition;
    (14) uncertainty with respect to any incremental tax
    benefits resulting from the planned elections for ALICO and
    certain of its subsidiaries under Section 338 of the
    U.S. Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended (the
     Section 338 Elections  (15) the dilutive
    impact on our stockholders resulting from the issuance of equity
    securities to ALICO Holdings in connection with the Acquisition;
    (16) downward pressure on our stock price as a result of
    ALICO Holdings  ability to sell its equity securities;
    (17) the conditional payment obligation of approximately
    $300 million to ALICO Holdings if the conversion of the
    preferred stock issued to ALICO Holdings in connection with the
    Acquisition into our common stock is not approved;
    (18) economic, political, currency and other risks relating
    to our international operations, including with respect to
    fluctuations of exchange rates; (19) our primary reliance,
    as a holding company, on dividends from our subsidiaries to meet
    debt payment obligations and the applicable regulatory
    restrictions on the ability of the subsidiaries to pay such
    dividends; (20) downgrades in our claims paying ability,
    financial strength or credit ratings; (21) ineffectiveness
    of risk management policies and procedures;
    (22) availability and effectiveness of reinsurance or
    indemnification arrangements, as well as default or failure of
    counterparties to perform; (23) discrepancies between
    actual

2

Table of Contents   

claims experience and assumptions used in setting prices for our
    products and establishing the liabilities for our obligations
    for future policy benefits and claims; (24) catastrophe
    losses; (25) heightened competition, including with respect
    to pricing, entry of new competitors, consolidation of
    distributors, the development of new products by new and
    existing competitors, distribution of amounts available under
    U.S. government programs, and for personnel;
    (26) unanticipated changes in industry trends;
    (27) changes in accounting standards, practices
     and/or 
    policies; (28) changes in assumptions related to deferred
    policy acquisition costs, deferred sales inducements, value of
    business acquired or goodwill; (29) increased expenses
    relating to pension and postretirement benefit plans, as well as
    health care and other employee benefits; (30) exposure to
    losses related to variable annuity guarantee benefits, including
    from significant and sustained downturns or extreme volatility
    in equity markets, reduced interest rates, unanticipated
    policyholder behavior, mortality or longevity, and the
    adjustment for nonperformance risk; (31) deterioration in
    the experience of the  closed block  established in
    connection with the reorganization of Metropolitan Life
    Insurance Company ( MLIC  (32) adverse results
    or other consequences from litigation, arbitration or regulatory
    investigations; (33) inability to protect our intellectual
    property rights or claims of infringement of the intellectual
    property rights of others, (34) discrepancies between
    actual experience and assumptions used in establishing
    liabilities related to other contingencies or obligations;
    (35) regulatory, legislative or tax changes relating to our
    insurance, banking, international, or other operations that may
    affect the cost of, or demand for, our products or services,
    impair our ability to attract and retain talented and
    experienced management and other employees, or increase the cost
    or administrative burdens of providing benefits to employees;
    (36) the effects of business disruption or economic
    contraction due to terrorism, other hostilities, or natural
    catastrophes, including any related impact on our disaster
    recovery systems and management continuity planning which could
    impair our ability to conduct business effectively;
    (37) the effectiveness of our programs and practices in
    avoiding giving our associates incentives to take excessive
    risks; and (38) other risks and uncertainties described
    from time to time in MetLife, Inc. s filings with the SEC.

We do not undertake any obligation to publicly correct or update
    any forward-looking statement if we later become aware that such
    statement is not likely to be achieved. Please consult any
    further disclosures MetLife, Inc. makes on related subjects in
    reports to the SEC.

Note
    Regarding Reliance on Statements in Our Contracts  

In reviewing the agreements included as exhibits to this Annual
    Report on
     Form 10-K, 
    please remember that they are included to provide you with
    information regarding their terms and are not intended to
    provide any other factual or disclosure information about
    MetLife, Inc., its subsidiaries or affiliates, or the other
    parties to the agreements. The agreements contain
    representations and warranties by each of the parties to the
    applicable agreement. These representations and warranties have
    been made solely for the benefit of the other parties to the
    applicable agreement and:

should not in all instances be treated as categorical statements
    of fact, but rather as a way of allocating the risk to one of
    the parties if those statements prove to be inaccurate;

have been qualified by disclosures that were made to the other
    party in connection with the negotiation of the applicable
    agreement, which disclosures are not necessarily reflected in
    the agreement;

may apply standards of materiality in a way that is different
    from what may be viewed as material to investors; and

were made only as of the date of the applicable agreement or
    such other date or dates as may be specified in the agreement
    and are subject to more recent developments.

Accordingly, these representations and warranties may not
    describe the actual state of affairs as of the date they were
    made or at any other time. Additional information about us may
    be found elsewhere in this Annual Report on
     Form 10-K 
    and MetLife, Inc. s other public filings, which are
    available without charge through the SEC website at www.sec.gov.

3

Table of Contents   

Part I  

Item 1.      

Business   

As used in this
     Form 10-K, 
     MetLife,  the  Company,   we, 
     our  and  us  refer to MetLife, Inc., a
    Delaware corporation incorporated in 1999 (the  Holding
    Company ), its subsidiaries and affiliates.

With a more than
     140-year 
    history, we have grown to become a leading global provider of
    insurance, annuities and employee benefit programs, serving
    90 million customers in over 60 countries. Through our
    subsidiaries and affiliates, MetLife holds leading market
    positions in the United States ( U.S. ), Japan, Latin
    America, Asia Pacific, Europe and the Middle East. Over the past
    several years, we have grown our core businesses, as well as
    successfully executed on our growth strategy. This has included
    completing a number of transactions that have resulted in the
    acquisition and, in some cases, divestiture of certain
    businesses while also further strengthening our balance sheet to
    position MetLife for continued growth.

On November 1, 2010 (the  Acquisition Date ),
    MetLife, Inc. completed the acquisition of American Life
    Insurance Company ( American Life ), from ALICO
    Holdings LLC ( ALICO Holdings ), a subsidiary of
    American International Group, Inc. ( AIG ), and
    Delaware American Life Insurance Company ( DelAm, )
    from AIG, (American Life, together with DelAm, collectively,
     ALICO ) (the  Acquisition ) for a total
    purchase price of $16.4 billion. The business acquired in
    the Acquisition provides consumers and businesses with products
    and services, life insurance, accident and health insurance,
    retirement and wealth management solutions. This transaction
    delivers on our global growth strategies, adding significant
    scale and reach to MetLife s international footprint,
    furthering our diversification in geographic mix and product
    offerings, as well as increasing our distribution strength. See
    Note 2 of the Notes to the Consolidated Financial
    Statements.

MetLife is organized into five segments: Insurance Products,
    Retirement Products, Corporate Benefit Funding and
    Auto   Home (collectively,
     U.S. Business ) and International. The assets
    and liabilities of ALICO as of November 30, 2010 and the
    operating results of ALICO from the Acquisition Date through
    November 30, 2010 are included in the International
    segment. In addition, the Company reports certain of its results
    of operations in Banking, Corporate   Other, which
    includes MetLife Bank, National Association ( MetLife
    Bank ) and other business activities. For reporting periods
    beginning in 2011, our
     non-U.S. Business 
    results will be presented within two separate segments: Japan
    and Other International Regions. MetLife s management
    continues to evaluate the Company s segment performance and
    allocated resources and may adjust such measurements in the
    future to better reflect segment profitability.

U.S. Business provides a variety of insurance and financial
    services products   including life, dental,
    disability, auto and homeowner insurance, guaranteed interest
    and stable value products, and annuities   through
    both proprietary and independent retail distribution channels,
    as well as at the workplace. This business serves over 60,000
    group customers, including over 90 of the top one hundred
    FORTUNE
    500   

    companies, and provides protection and retirement solutions to
    millions of individuals.

International operates in Japan and 64 countries within Latin
    America, Asia Pacific, Europe and the Middle East. MetLife is
    the largest life insurer in Mexico and also holds leading market
    positions in Japan, Poland, Chile and South Korea. This business
    provides life insurance, accident and health insurance, credit
    insurance, annuities, endowment and retirement  
    savings products to both individuals and groups. International
    is the fastest-growing of MetLife s businesses, and we
    believe it will be one of the largest future growth areas.

Within the U.S., we also provide a variety of mortgage and
    deposit products through MetLife Bank. Results of our banking
    operation are reported in Banking, Corporate   Other.

Operating revenues derived from any customer did not exceed 10%
    of consolidated operating revenues in any of the last three
    years. Financial information, including revenues, expenses,
    operating earnings, and total assets by segment, is provided in
    Note 22 of the Notes to the Consolidated Financial
    Statements. Operating revenues and operating earnings are
    performance measures that are not based on accounting principles
    generally accepted in the United States of America
    ( GAAP ). See  Management s Discussion and
    Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations 
    for definitions of such measures.

4

Table of Contents   

We are one of the largest institutional investors in the
    U.S. with a $476 billion general account portfolio
    invested primarily in investment grade corporate bonds,
    structured finance securities, commercial and agricultural
    mortgage loans, U.S. Treasury, agency and government
    guaranteed securities, as well as real estate and corporate
    equity. Over the past several years, we have taken a number of
    actions to further diversify and strengthen our general account
    portfolio.

Our well-recognized brand, leading market positions, competitive
    and innovative product offerings and financial strength and
    expertise should help drive future growth and enhance
    shareholder value, building on a long history of fairness,
    honesty and integrity. Over the course of the next several
    years, we will pursue the following objectives to achieve our
    goals:

Strengthen our growth platform  

Focus on targeted, disciplined global growth of
    our businesses 

Build on our widely recognized brand name 

Capitalize on our large base of institutional and
    individual customers 

Optimize our delivery and operations  

Expand and leverage our broad, diverse
    distribution channels 

Focus on margin improvement and return on equity
    expansion 

Protect and extend our risk management  

Build on our strong risk management and
    investment expertise 

Maintain a balanced focus on income and
    protection products 

Enhance organizational effectiveness  

Further our commitment to a diverse, high
    performance workplace 

Capitalize on innovation  

Continue to introduce innovative and competitive
    products 

U.S.
    Business  

Overview   

Insurance
    Products  

Our Insurance Products segment offers a broad range of
    protection products and services aimed at serving the financial
    needs of our customers throughout their lives. These products
    are sold to individuals and corporations, as well as other
    institutions and their respective employees. We have built a
    leading position in the U.S. group insurance market through
    long-standing relationships with many of the largest corporate
    employers in the U.S., and are one of the largest issuers of
    individual life insurance products in the U.S. We are
    organized into three businesses: Group Life, Individual Life and
    Non-Medical Health.

Our Group Life insurance products and services include variable
    life, universal life, and term life products. We offer group
    insurance products as employer-paid benefits or as voluntary
    benefits where all or a portion of the premiums are paid by the
    employee. These group products and services also include
    employee paid supplemental life and are offered as standard
    products or may be tailored to meet specific customer needs.

Our Individual Life insurance products and services include
    variable life, universal life, term life and whole life
    products. Additionally, through our broker-dealer affiliates, we
    offer a full range of mutual funds and other securities
    products. The elimination of transactions from activity between
    the segments within U.S. Business occurs within Individual
    Life.

5

Table of Contents   

The major products within both Group Life and Individual Life
    are as follows:

Variable Life.   Variable life products provide
    insurance coverage through a contract that gives the
    policyholder flexibility in investment choices and, depending on
    the product, in premium payments and coverage amounts, with
    certain guarantees. Most importantly, with variable life
    products, premiums and account balances can be directed by the
    policyholder into a variety of separate account investment
    options or directed to the Company s general account. In
    the separate account investment options, the policyholder bears
    the entire risk of the investment results. We collect specified
    fees for the management of the investment options. The
    policyholder s cash value reflects the investment return of
    the selected investment options, net of management fees and
    insurance-related and other charges. In some instances,
    third-party money management firms manage these investment
    options. With some products, by maintaining a certain premium
    level, policyholders may have the advantage of various
    guarantees that may protect the death benefit from adverse
    investment experience.

Universal Life.   Universal life products
    provide insurance coverage on the same basis as variable life,
    except that premiums, and the resulting accumulated balances,
    are allocated only to the Company s general account.
    Universal life products may allow the insured to increase or
    decrease the amount of death benefit coverage over the term of
    the contract and the owner to adjust the frequency and amount of
    premium payments. We credit premiums to an account maintained
    for the policyholder. Premiums are credited net of specified
    expenses. Interest is credited to the policyholder s
    account at interest rates we determine, subject to specified
    minimums. Specific charges are made against the
    policyholder s account for the cost of insurance protection
    and for expenses. With some products, by maintaining a certain
    premium level, policyholders may have the advantage of various
    guarantees that may protect the death benefit from adverse
    investment experience.

Term Life.   Term life products provide a
    guaranteed benefit upon the death of the insured for a specified
    time period in return for the periodic payment of premiums.
    Specified coverage periods range from one year to 30 years,
    but in no event are they longer than the period over which
    premiums are paid. Death benefits may be level over the period
    or decreasing. Decreasing coverage is used principally to
    provide for loan repayment in the event of death. Premiums may
    be guaranteed at a level amount for the coverage period or may
    be non-level and non-guaranteed. Term insurance products are
    sometimes referred to as pure protection products, in that there
    are typically no savings or investment elements. Term contracts
    expire without value at the end of the coverage period when the
    insured party is still living.

Whole Life.   Whole life products provide a
    guaranteed benefit upon the death of the insured in return for
    the periodic payment of a fixed premium over a predetermined
    period. Premium payments may be required for the entire life of
    the contract period, to a specified age or period, and may be
    level or change in accordance with a predetermined schedule.
    Whole life insurance includes policies that provide a
    participation feature in the form of dividends. Policyholders
    may receive dividends in cash or apply them to increase death
    benefits, increase cash values available upon surrender or
    reduce the premiums required to maintain the contract in-force.
    Because the use of dividends is specified by the policyholder,
    this group of products provides significant flexibility to
    individuals to tailor the product to suit their specific needs
    and circumstances, while at the same time providing guaranteed
    benefits.

Our Non-Medical Health products and services include dental
    insurance, group short- and long-term disability, individual
    disability income, long-term care ( LTC ), critical
    illness and accidental death   dismemberment
    coverages. Other products and services include
    employer-sponsored auto and homeowners insurance provided
    through the Auto   Home segment and prepaid legal
    plans. We also sell administrative services-only
    ( ASO ) arrangements to some employers. The major
    products in this area are:

Dental.   Dental products provide insurance and
    ASO plans that assist employees, retirees and their families in
    maintaining oral health while reducing
     out-of-pocket 
    expenses and providing superior customer service. Dental plans
    include the Preferred Dentist Program and the Dental Health
    Maintenance Organization.

Disability.   Disability products provide a
    benefit in the event of the disability of the insured. In most
    instances, this benefit is in the form of monthly income paid
    until the insured reaches age 65. In addition to

6

Table of Contents   

income replacement, the product may be used to provide for the
    payment of business overhead expenses for disabled business
    owners or mortgage payment protection. This is offered on both a
    group and individual basis.

Long-term Care.   LTC products provide
    protection against the potentially high costs of LTC services.
    They generally pay benefits to insureds who need assistance with
    activities of daily living or have a cognitive impairment. In
    November 2010, we announced our decision to discontinue all new
    sales of individual and employer group LTC products, as well as
    our intent to file for an in-force rate increase on our employer
    group business. We remain committed to our existing LTC insureds
    and will ensure that they continue to receive the same high
    level of service.

Retirement
    Products  

Our Retirement products segment includes a variety of variable
    and fixed annuities that are primarily sold to individuals and
    employees of corporations and other institutions. The major
    products in this area are:

Variable Annuities.   Variable annuities provide
    for both asset accumulation and asset distribution needs.
    Variable annuities allow the contractholder to make deposits
    into various investment options in a separate account, as
    determined by the contractholder. The risks associated with such
    investment options are borne entirely by the contractholder,
    except where guaranteed minimum benefits are involved. In
    certain variable annuity products, contractholders may also
    choose to allocate all or a portion of their account to the
    Company s general account and are credited with interest at
    rates we determine, subject to certain minimums. In addition,
    contractholders may also elect certain minimum death benefit and
    minimum living benefit guarantees for which additional fees are
    charged.

Fixed Annuities.   Fixed annuities provide for
    both asset accumulation and asset distribution needs. Fixed
    annuities do not allow the same investment flexibility provided
    by variable annuities, but provide guarantees related to the
    preservation of principal and interest credited. Deposits made
    into deferred annuity contracts are allocated to the
    Company s general account and are credited with interest at
    rates we determine, subject to certain minimums. Credited
    interest rates are guaranteed not to change for certain limited
    periods of time, ranging from one to ten years. Fixed income
    annuities provide a guaranteed monthly income for a specified
    period of years
     and/or  for
    the life of the annuitant.

In the fourth quarter of 2010, management realigned certain
    income annuity products within the Company s segments to
    better conform to the way it manages and assesses its business
    and began reporting such product results in the Retirement
    Products segment previously reported in the Corporate Benefit
    Funding segment. Accordingly, prior period segment results have
    been adjusted to reflect such product reclassifications. See
    Note 1 and Note 22 of the Notes to the Consolidated
    Financial Statements for further information.

Corporate
    Benefit Funding  

Our Corporate Benefit Funding segment includes an array of
    annuity and investment products, including, guaranteed interest
    products and other stable value products, income annuities, and
    separate account contracts for the investment management of
    defined benefit and defined contribution plan assets. This
    segment also includes certain products to fund postretirement
    benefits and company, bank or trust owned life insurance used to
    finance non-qualified benefit programs for executives. The major
    products in this area are:

Stable Value Products.   We offer general
    account guaranteed interest contracts, separate account
    guaranteed interest contracts, and similar products used to
    support the stable value option of defined contribution plans.
    We also offer private floating rate funding agreements that are
    used for money market funds, securities lending cash collateral
    portfolios and short-term investment funds.

Pensions Closeouts.   We offer general account
    and separate account annuity products, generally in connection
    with the termination of defined benefit pension plans, both in
    the U.S. and the United Kingdom ( U.K. ). We also
    offer partial risk transfer solutions that allow for partial
    transfers of pension liabilities and annuity products that
    include single premium buyouts.

7

Table of Contents   

Torts and Settlements.   We offer innovative
    strategies for complex litigation settlements, primarily
    structured settlement annuities.

Capital Markets Investment Products.   Products
    offered include funding agreements, Federal Home Loan Bank
    advances and funding agreement-backed commercial paper.

Other Corporate Benefit Funding Products and
    Services.   We offer specialized life insurance
    products designed specifically to provide solutions for
    non-qualified benefit and retiree benefit funding purposes.

Auto  
    Home  

Our Auto   Home segment includes personal lines
    property and casualty insurance offered directly to employees at
    their employer s worksite, as well as to individuals
    through a variety of retail distribution channels, including
    independent agents, property and casualty specialists, direct
    response marketing and the individual distribution sales group.
    Auto   Home primarily sells auto insurance, which
    represented 68% of Auto   Home s total net earned
    premiums in 2010. Homeowners and other insurance represented 32%
    of Auto   Home s total net earned premiums in
    2010. The major products in this area are:

Auto Coverages.   Auto insurance policies
    provide coverage for private passenger automobiles, utility
    automobiles and vans, motorcycles, motor homes, antique or
    classic automobiles and trailers. Auto   Home offers
    traditional coverage such as liability, uninsured motorist, no
    fault or personal injury protection, as well as collision and
    comprehensive.

Homeowners and Other
    Coverages.   Homeowners  insurance policies
    provide protection for homeowners, renters, condominium owners
    and residential landlords against losses arising out of damage
    to dwellings and contents from a wide variety of perils, as well
    as coverage for liability arising from ownership or occupancy.
    Other insurance includes personal excess liability (protection
    against losses in excess of amounts covered by other liability
    insurance policies), and coverage for recreational vehicles and
    boat owners. Most of Auto   Home s
    homeowners  policies are traditional insurance policies for
    dwellings, providing protection for loss on a  replacement
    cost  basis. These policies also provide additional
    coverage for reasonable, normal living expenses incurred by
    policyholders that have been displaced from their homes.

Sales
    Distribution   

U.S. Business markets our products and services through
    various distribution groups. Our life insurance and retirement
    products targeted to individuals are sold via sales forces,
    comprised of MetLife employees, in addition to third-party
    organizations. Our group life, non-medical health and corporate
    benefit funding products are sold via sales forces primarily
    comprised of MetLife employees. Personal lines property and
    casualty insurance products are directly marketed to employees
    at their employer s worksite. Auto   Home
    products are also marketed and sold to individuals by
    independent agents and property and casualty specialists through
    a direct response channel and the individual distribution sales
    group. MetLife sales employees work with all distribution groups
    to better reach and service customers, brokers, consultants and
    other intermediaries.

Individual
    Distribution  

Our individual distribution sales group targets the large
    middle-income market, as well as affluent individuals, owners of
    small businesses and executives of small- to medium-sized
    companies. We have also been successful in selling our products
    in various multi-cultural markets.

Insurance Products are sold through our individual distribution
    sales group and also through various third-party organizations
    utilizing two models. In the coverage model, wholesalers sell to
    high net worth individuals and small- to medium-sized businesses
    through independent general agencies, financial advisors,
    consultants, brokerage general agencies and other independent
    marketing organizations under contractual arrangements. In the
    point of sale model, wholesalers sell through financial
    intermediaries, including regional broker-dealers, brokerage
    firms, financial planners and banks.

8

Table of Contents   

Retirement Products are sold through our individual distribution
    sales group and also through various third-party organizations
    such as regional broker-dealers, New York Stock Exchange
    ( NYSE ) brokerage firms, financial planners and banks.

The individual distribution sales group is comprised of three
    channels: the MetLife distribution channel, a career agency
    system, the New England financial distribution channel, a
    general agency system, and MetLife Resources, a career agency
    system.

The MetLife distribution channel had 5,053 MetLife agents under
    contract in 54 agencies at December 31, 2010. The career
    agency sales force focuses on the large middle-income and
    affluent markets, including multi-cultural markets. We support
    our efforts in multi-cultural markets through targeted
    advertising, specially trained agents and sales literature
    written in various languages.

The New England financial distribution channel included 33
    general agencies providing support to 2,102 general agents and a
    network of independent brokers throughout the U.S. at
    December 31, 2010. The New England financial distribution
    channel targets high net worth individuals, owners of small
    businesses and executives of small- to medium-sized companies.

MetLife Resources, a focused distribution channel of MetLife,
    markets retirement, annuity and other financial products on a
    national basis through 547 MetLife agents and independent
    brokers at December 31, 2010. MetLife Resources targets the
    nonprofit, educational and healthcare markets.

We market and sell Auto   Home products through
    independent agents, property and casualty specialists, a direct
    response channel and the direct distribution group. In recent
    years, we have increased the number of independent agents
    appointed to sell these products.

In 2010, Auto   Home s business was concentrated
    in the following states, as measured by amount and percentage of
    total direct earned premiums:

Group
    Distribution  

Insurance Products distributes its group life and non-medical
    health products and services through a sales force that is
    segmented by the size of the target customer. Marketing
    representatives sell either directly to corporate and other
    group customers or through an intermediary, such as a broker or
    consultant. Voluntary products are sold through the same sales
    channels, as well as by specialists for these products.
    Employers have been emphasizing such voluntary products and, as
    a result, we have increased our focus on communicating and
    marketing to such employees in order to further foster sales of
    those products. At December 31, 2010, the group life and
    non-medical health sales channels had 356 marketing
    representatives.

Retirement Products markets its retirement, savings, investment
    and payout annuity products and services to sponsors and
    advisors of benefit plans of all sizes. These products and
    services are offered to private and public pension plans,
    collective bargaining units, nonprofit organizations, recipients
    of structured settlements and the current and retired members of
    these and other institutions.

Corporate Benefit Funding products and services are distributed
    through dedicated sales teams and relationship managers located
    in 12 offices around the country. In addition, the
    retirement   benefits funding organization works with
    individual distribution and group life and non-medical health
    distribution areas to better reach and service customers,
    brokers, consultants and other intermediaries.

9

Table of Contents   

Auto   Home is a leading provider of personal lines
    property and casualty insurance products offered to employees at
    their employer s worksite. At December 31, 2010, 2,215
    employers offered MetLife Auto   Home products to
    their employees.

Group marketing representatives market personal lines property
    and casualty insurance products to employers through a variety
    of means, including broker referrals and cross-selling to group
    customers. Once permitted by the employer, MetLife commences
    marketing efforts to employees. Employees who are interested in
    the auto and homeowners products can call a toll-free number to
    request a quote to purchase coverage and to request payroll
    deduction over the telephone. Auto   Home has also
    developed a proprietary software that permits an employee in
    most states to obtain a quote for auto insurance through
    Auto   Home s internet website.

We have entered into several joint ventures and other
    arrangements with third parties to expand the marketing and
    distribution opportunities of group products and services. We
    also seek to sell our group products and services through
    sponsoring organizations and affinity groups. In addition, we
    also provide life and dental coverage to federal employees.

International  

Overview   

International provides life insurance, accident and health
    insurance, credit insurance, annuities, endowment and
    retirement   savings products to both individuals and
    groups. We focus on markets primarily within Japan, Latin
    America, Asia Pacific, Europe and the Middle East. We operate in
    international markets through subsidiaries and affiliates. See
     Risk Factors   Fluctuations in Foreign Currency
    Exchange Rates Could Negatively Affect Our Profitability, 
    and  Risk Factors   Our International Operations
    Face Political, Legal, Operational and Other Risks, Including
    Exposure to Local and Regional Economic Conditions, That Could
    Negatively Affect Those Operations or Our Profitability, 
    and  Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market
    Risk. 

Japan  

Our Japan operation (excluding our Japan joint venture, as
    described below under    Asia Pacific ) is
    comprised of the business acquired in the Acquisition. Our Japan
    operation is among the largest foreign life insurers in Japan
    and ranks 6th in the Japanese life insurance industry
    measured by total premiums according to the Statistics of Life
    Insurance in Japan 2009. It provides life insurance, accident
    and health insurance, annuities and endowment products to both
    individuals and groups. Its products are distributed through a
    multi-distribution platform consisting of captive agents,
    independent agents, brokers, bancassurance, and direct
    marketing ( DM ).

Latin
    America  

We operate in 20 countries in Latin America, with the largest
    operations in Mexico, Chile and Argentina. The Mexican operation
    is the largest life insurance company in both the individual and
    group businesses in Mexico according to Asociaci n Mexicana
    de Instituciones de Seguro, a Mexican industry trade group which
    provides rankings for insurance companies. Our Chilean operation
    is the largest annuity company in Chile, based on market share
    according to Superintendencia Valores y Seguros, the Chilean
    insurance regulator. The Chilean operation also offers
    individual life insurance and group insurance products. We also
    actively market individual life insurance, group insurance
    products and credit life coverage in Argentina, but the
    nationalization of the pension system substantially reduced our
    presence in Argentina. The business environment in Argentina has
    been, and may continue to be, affected by governmental and legal
    actions which impact our results of operations.

Asia
    Pacific  

We operate in 5 countries in Asia Pacific with the largest
    operations in South Korea, Hong Kong and Australia. Our South
    Korean operation has significant sales of variable universal
    life and annuity products. Our Hong Kong operation has
    significant sales of variable universal life and endowment
    products. Our Australia operation has significant sales of
    credit insurance and group life products. We also operate
    through joint ventures in Japan and China, the results of which
    are reflected in net investment income and are not consolidated
    in the financial results.

10

Table of Contents   

We have a quota share reinsurance agreement with the joint
    venture in Japan, whereby we assume 100% of the living and death
    guarantee benefits associated with the variable annuity business
    written after April 2005 by the joint venture. As discussed in
    Note 2 of the Notes to the Consolidated Financial
    Statements, the Company reached an agreement to sell its 50%
    interest in the joint venture in Japan.

Europe
    and the Middle East  

We operate in 39 countries in Europe and the Middle East with
    our largest operations in Poland, the U.K., France, and the
    United Arab Emirates, as well as through a consolidated joint
    venture in India. Our Poland operation is a leading provider of
    life insurance, accident and health insurance, and credit
    insurance. It is consistently ranked as a top 3 company in
    net profits according to  Rzeczpospolita  financial
    daily. Our U.K. operation provides life insurance, accident and
    health insurance and variable annuities in its home market and
    throughout Europe. Our operation in France provides life
    insurance, accident and health insurance and credit insurance.
    In the Middle East, we provide life insurance, accident and
    health insurance, credit insurance, annuities, endowment and
    retirement   savings products.

Sales
    Distribution   

International markets its products and services through a
    multi-distribution strategy which varies by geographic region.
    The various distribution channels include: agency,
    bancassurance, DM, brokerage and
     e-commerce. 
    In developing countries, agency covers the needs of the emerging
    middle class with primarily traditional products (e.g.,
    endowment and accident and health). In more developed and mature
    markets, agents, while continuing to serve their existing
    customers to keep pace with their developing financial needs,
    also target upper middle class and high net worth customer bases
    with a more sophisticated product set including more
    investment-sensitive products, such as universal life, mutual
    fund and single premium deposits.

In the bancassurance channel, International leverages
    partnerships that span all regions. In addition, DM has
    extensive and far reaching capabilities in all regions. The DM
    operations deploy both broadcast marketing approaches (e.g.
    direct response TV, web-based lead generation) and traditional
    DM techniques such as telemarketing. Japan represents the
    largest DM market.

Japan  

Japan s multi-channel distribution strategy consists of
    captive agents, independent agents, bancassurance and DM. While
     face-to-face 
    channels continue to be core to Japan s business, other
    channels, including bancassurance and DM, have become a critical
    part of Japan s distribution strategy. Our Japan operation
    has maintained its position in bancassurance due to its strong
    distribution relationship with Japan s mega banks, trust
    banks and various regional banks, as well as with the Japan
    Post. The DM channel is supported by an industry-leading
    marketing platform,
     state-of-the-art 
    call center infrastructure and its own campaign management
    system.

Japan has 5,397 captive agents, 10,642 independent agents, 96
    bancassurance relationships, including Japan Post, and 195
    DM sponsors.

Latin
    America  

Latin America s key distribution channels include captive
    agents, large multinational brokers and small-and medium-sized
    brokers, direct and group sales forces (mostly for group
    policies without broker intermediation), DM, bancassurance and
    worksite marketing. The region has an exclusive and captive
    agency distribution network with more than 3,000 agents also
    selling a variety of individual life, accident and health, and
    pension products ( AFORE ), as well as small- and
    medium-sized group life and medical solutions products. We
    currently work with over 3,300 active brokers with registered
    sales of group and individual life, accident and health, group
    medical, dental and pension products. Worksite marketing has
    over 2,300 agents.

11

Table of Contents   

Asia
    Pacific  

In Asia Pacific, distribution strategies differ by country but
    generally utilize a combination of captive agents, bancassurance
    relationships and DM. Agency sales are achieved through a force
    of approximately 7,500 agents and a growing force of independent
    general agents. Bancassurance sales are currently reliant upon a
    significant regional strategic partnership along with a number
    of smaller partnerships in each market. Throughout the region,
    our Asia Pacific operation leverages its expertise in DM
    operations management to conduct its own campaigns and provide
    those DM capabilities to third-party sponsors.

While not a significant part of the region s overall
    business, sales of group life and pension business are primarily
    achieved through independent brokers and an employee sales force.

Europe
    and the Middle East  

Our operation in Central and Eastern Europe ( CEE )
    has a multi-channel distribution strategy, which includes
    significant face to face channels, built on a strong captive
    agency force of more than 3,450 agents, and relationships with
    more than 150 independent brokers and third-party multi-level
    agency networks. Our CEE operation also has a group/corporate
    business direct sales force of more than 70 and distribution
    relationships with more than 90 banks, other financial and non
    financial institutions, as well as a fast growing DM channel.
    The primary method of distribution is captive and third party
    agency and captive direct sales forces, with a growing presence
    in bank, other financial and non financial institutions,
    and DM.

Our operation in Continental Western Europe ( CWE )
    also has a multi-channel distribution strategy, including DM,
    brokerage, banks and financial institutions. Our U.K. operation
    has built a strong position in the U.K. independent financial
    advisor sector through its strong distribution relationships
    with Britain s leading advisory networks, serving the
    mainstream markets specializing particularly in guaranteed
    products. Recent arrangements with two U.K. banks should enhance
    our distribution capability going forward. Our U.K. operation
    also has an agency force which focuses on the protection market.

In the Middle East, our products are distributed via a variety
    of channels including approximately 16,400 agents,
    bancassurance, brokers and DM. Agency distribution is the
    primary channel, with MetLife having the largest captive network
    in the Middle East. Bancassurance is a growing channel with
    approximately 100 relationships, and approximately 250
    programs providing access to millions of bank customers.

Banking,
    Corporate   Other  

Banking, Corporate   Other contains the excess capital
    not allocated to the segments, which is invested to optimize
    investment spread and to fund company initiatives and various
     start-up  and
    run-off entities. Banking, Corporate   Other also
    includes interest expense related to the majority of our
    outstanding debt and expenses associated with certain legal
    proceedings, as well as the financial results of MetLife Bank,
    which offers a variety of mortgage and deposit products. The
    elimination of transactions from activity between
    U.S. Business, International, and Banking,
    Corporate   Other occurs within Banking,
    Corporate   Other.

Mortgage products offered by MetLife Bank include forward and
    reverse residential mortgage loans. Residential mortgage loans
    are originated through MetLife Bank s national sales force,
    mortgage brokers and mortgage correspondents.

The residential mortgage banking activities include the
    origination and servicing of mortgage loans. Mortgage loans are
     held-for-investment 
    or sold primarily into Federal National Mortgage Association
    ( FNMA ), Federal Home Loan Mortgage Corporation
    ( FHLMC ) or Government National Mortgage Association
    ( GNMA ) securities. MetLife Bank also leverages
    MetLife s investment platform to source commercial and
    agriculture loans as investments on its balance sheet. MetLife
    Bank is a member of the Federal Reserve System and the Federal
    Home Loan Bank of New York ( FHLB of NY ) and is
    subject to regulation, examination and supervision by the Office
    of the Comptroller of the Currency ( OCC ) and
    secondarily by the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation
    ( FDIC ) and the Federal Reserve.

12

Table of Contents   

The origination of forward and reverse mortgage single family
    loans include both variable and fixed rate products. MetLife
    Bank does not originate
     sub-prime  or
    alternative residential mortgage loans ( Alt-A ) and
    the funding for the mortgage banking activities is provided by
    deposits and borrowings.

Deposit products include traditional savings accounts, money
    market savings accounts, certificates of deposit
    ( CDs ) and individual retirement accounts. MetLife
    Bank participates in the Certificate of Deposit Account Registry
    Service program through which certain customer CDs are exchanged
    for CDs of similar amounts from participating banks. The deposit
    products provide a relatively stable source of funding and
    liquidity and are used to fund securities and loans. In
    addition, MetLife Bank principally seeks deposits from direct
    customers via the Internet and postal mail, and takes advantage
    of cross-marketing opportunities, including through voluntary
    benefits platforms of its affiliates  customers.

Policyholder
    Liabilities  

We establish, and carry as liabilities, actuarially determined
    amounts that are calculated to meet our policy obligations when
    a policy matures or is surrendered, an insured dies or becomes
    disabled or upon the occurrence of other covered events, or to
    provide for future annuity payments. We compute the amounts for
    actuarial liabilities reported in our consolidated financial
    statements in conformity with GAAP. For more details on
    Policyholder Liabilities see  Management s Discussion
    and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of
    Operations   Summary of Critical Accounting
    Estimates   Liability for Future Policy Benefits 
    and  Management s Discussion and Analysis of Financial
    Condition and Results of Operations   Policyholder
    Liabilities. 

Pursuant to state insurance laws and country regulators, the
    Holding Company s insurance subsidiaries establish
    statutory reserves, reported as liabilities, to meet their
    obligations on their respective policies. These statutory
    reserves are established in amounts sufficient to meet policy
    and contract obligations, when taken together with expected
    future premiums and interest at assumed rates. Statutory
    reserves generally differ from actuarial liabilities for future
    policy benefits determined using GAAP.

The New York Insurance Law and regulations require certain
    MetLife entities to submit to the New York Superintendent of
    Insurance or other state insurance departments, with each annual
    report, an opinion and memorandum of a  qualified
    actuary  that the statutory reserves and related actuarial
    amounts recorded in support of specified policies and contracts,
    and the assets supporting such statutory reserves and related
    actuarial amounts, make adequate provision for their statutory
    liabilities with respect to these obligations. See
       U.S. Regulation   Insurance
    Regulation   Policy and Contract Reserve Sufficiency
    Analysis. 

Underwriting
    and Pricing  

Underwriting   

Underwriting generally involves an evaluation of applications
    for Insurance Products, Retirement Products, Corporate Benefit
    Funding, and Auto   Home by a professional staff of
    underwriters and actuaries, who determine the type and the
    amount of risk that we are willing to accept. In addition to the
    products described above, with the exception of Auto  
    Home, International also offers credit insurance, accident and
    health, and medical products. We employ detailed underwriting
    policies, guidelines and procedures designed to assist the
    underwriter to properly assess and quantify risks before issuing
    policies to qualified applicants or groups.

Insurance underwriting considers not only an applicant s
    medical history, but also other factors such as financial
    profile, foreign travel, vocations and alcohol, drug and tobacco
    use. Group underwriting generally evaluates the risk
    characteristics of each prospective insured group, although with
    certain voluntary products and for certain coverages, members of
    a group may be underwritten on an individual basis. We generally
    perform our own underwriting; however, certain policies are
    reviewed by intermediaries under guidelines established by us.
    Generally, we are not obligated to accept any risk or group of
    risks from, or to issue a policy or group of policies to, any
    employer or intermediary. Requests for coverage are reviewed on
    their merits and generally a policy is not issued unless the
    particular risk or group has been examined and approved by our
    underwriters.

13

Table of Contents   

Our remote underwriting offices, intermediaries, as well as our
    corporate underwriting office, are periodically reviewed via
    continuous on-going internal underwriting audits to maintain
    high-standards of underwriting and consistency. Such offices are
    also subject to periodic external audits by reinsurers with whom
    we do business.

We have established senior level oversight of the underwriting
    process that facilitates quality sales and serves the needs of
    our customers, while supporting our financial strength and
    business objectives. Our goal is to achieve the underwriting,
    mortality and morbidity levels reflected in the assumptions in
    our product pricing. This is accomplished by determining and
    establishing underwriting policies, guidelines, philosophies and
    strategies that are competitive and suitable for the customer,
    the agent and us.

Auto   Home s underwriting function has six
    principal aspects: evaluating potential worksite marketing
    employer accounts and independent agencies; establishing
    guidelines for the binding of risks; reviewing coverage bound by
    agents; underwriting potential insureds, on a case by case
    basis, presented by agents outside the scope of their binding
    authority; pursuing information necessary in certain cases to
    enable Auto   Home to issue a policy within our
    guidelines; and ensuring that renewal policies continue to be
    written at rates commensurate with risk.

Subject to very few exceptions, agents in each of the
    U.S. Business distribution channels have binding authority
    for risks which fall within its published underwriting
    guidelines. Risks falling outside the underwriting guidelines
    may be submitted for approval to the underwriting department;
    alternatively, agents in such a situation may call the
    underwriting department to obtain authorization to bind the risk
    themselves. In most states, we generally have the right within a
    specified period (usually the first 60 days) to cancel any
    policy.

Pricing   

Pricing has traditionally reflected our corporate underwriting
    standards. Product pricing is based on the expected payout of
    benefits calculated through the use of assumptions for
    mortality, morbidity, expenses, persistency and investment
    returns, as well as certain macroeconomic factors, such as
    inflation. Investment-oriented products are priced based on
    various factors, which may include investment return, expenses,
    persistency and optionality. For certain investment oriented
    products in the U.S. and certain business sold
    internationally, pricing may include prospective and
    retrospective experience rating features. Prospective experience
    rating involves the evaluation of past experience for the
    purpose of determining future premium rates and all prior year
    gains and losses are borne by us. Retrospective experience
    rating also involves the evaluation of past experience for the
    purpose of determining the actual cost of providing insurance
    for the customer, however, the contract includes certain
    features that allow us to recoup certain losses or distribute
    certain gains back to the policyholder based on actual prior
    years  experience.

Rates for group life, non-medical health, and medical health
    products are based on anticipated results for the book of
    business being underwritten. Renewals are generally reevaluated
    annually or biannually and are repriced to reflect actual
    experience on such products. Products offered by Corporate
    Benefit Funding are priced frequently and are very responsive to
    bond yields, and such prices include additional margin in
    periods of market uncertainty. This business is predominantly
    illiquid, because a majority of the policyholders have no
    contractual rights to cash values and no options to change the
    form of the product s benefits.

Rates for individual life insurance products are highly
    regulated and must be approved by the regulators of the
    jurisdictions in which the product is sold. Generally such
    products are renewed annually and may include pricing terms that
    are guaranteed for a certain period of time. Fixed and variable
    annuity products are also highly regulated and approved by the
    respective regulators. Such products generally include penalties
    for early withdrawals and policyholder benefit elections to
    tailor the form of the product s benefits to the needs of
    the opting policyholder. We periodically reevaluate the costs
    associated with such options and will periodically adjust
    pricing levels on our guarantees. Further, from time to time, we
    may also reevaluate the type and level of guarantee features
    currently being offered.

Rates for Auto   Home s major lines of insurance
    are based on its proprietary database, rather than relying on
    rating bureaus. Auto   Home determines prices in part
    from a number of variables specific to each risk. The pricing of
    personal lines insurance products takes into account, among
    other things, the expected frequency and severity of losses, the
    costs of providing coverage (including the costs of acquiring
    policyholders and administering policy

14

Table of Contents   

benefits and other administrative and overhead costs),
    competitive factors and profit considerations. The major pricing
    variables for personal lines insurance include characteristics
    of the insured property, such as age, make and model or
    construction type, as well as characteristics of the insureds,
    such as driving record and loss experience, and the
    insured s personal financial management. Auto  
    Home s ability to set and change rates is subject to
    regulatory oversight.

As a condition of our license to do business in each state,
    Auto   Home, like all other automobile insurers, is
    required to write or share the cost of private passenger
    automobile insurance for higher risk individuals who would
    otherwise be unable to obtain such insurance. This
     involuntary  market, also called the  shared
    market,  is governed by the applicable laws and regulations
    of each state, and policies written in this market are generally
    written at rates higher than standard rates.

We continually review our underwriting and pricing guidelines so
    that our policies remain competitive and supportive of our
    marketing strategies and profitability goals. The current
    economic environment, with its volatility and uncertainty is not
    expected to materially impact the pricing of our products.

Reinsurance
    Activity  

We participate in reinsurance activities in order to limit
    losses, minimize exposure to significant risks, and provide
    additional capacity for future growth. We enter into various
    agreements with reinsurers that cover individual risks, group
    risks or defined blocks of business, primarily on a coinsurance,
    yearly renewable term, excess or catastrophe excess basis. These
    reinsurance agreements spread risk and minimize the effect of
    losses. The extent of each risk retained by us depends on our
    evaluation of the specific risk, subject, in certain
    circumstances, to maximum retention limits based on the
    characteristics of coverages. We also cede first dollar
    mortality risk under certain contracts. In addition to
    reinsuring mortality risk, we reinsure other risks, as well as
    specific coverages. We obtain reinsurance for capital
    requirement purposes and also when the economic impact of the
    reinsurance agreement makes it appropriate to do so.

Under the terms of the reinsurance agreements, the reinsurer
    agrees to reimburse us for the ceded amount in the event a claim
    is paid. Cessions under reinsurance arrangements do not
    discharge our obligations as the primary insurer. In the event
    that reinsurers do not meet their obligations under the terms of
    the reinsurance agreements, reinsurance balances recoverable
    could become uncollectible.

We reinsure our business through a diversified group of
    well-capitalized, highly rated reinsurers. We analyze recent
    trends in arbitration and litigation outcomes in disputes, if
    any, with our reinsurers. We monitor ratings and evaluate the
    financial strength of our reinsurers by analyzing their
    financial statements. In addition, the reinsurance recoverable
    balance due from each reinsurer is evaluated as part of the
    overall monitoring process. Recoverability of reinsurance
    recoverable balances is evaluated based on these analyses. We
    generally secure large reinsurance recoverable balances with
    various forms of collateral, including secured trusts, funds
    withheld accounts and irrevocable letters of credit.

U.S.
    Business   

For our individual life insurance products, we have historically
    reinsured the mortality risk primarily on an excess of retention
    basis or a quota share basis. We currently reinsure 90% of the
    mortality risk in excess of $1 million for most products
    and reinsure up to 90% of the mortality risk for certain other
    products. In addition to reinsuring mortality risk as described
    above, we reinsure other risks, as well as specific coverages.
    Placement of reinsurance is done primarily on an automatic basis
    and also on a facultative basis for risks with specified
    characteristics. On a case by case basis, we may retain up to
    $20 million per life and reinsure 100% of amounts in excess
    of the amount we retain. We evaluate our reinsurance programs
    routinely and may increase or decrease our retention at any time.

For other policies within the Insurance Products segment, we
    generally retain most of the risk and only cede particular risks
    on certain client arrangements.

Our Retirement Products segment reinsures a portion of the
    living and death benefit guarantees issued in connection with
    our variable annuities. Under these reinsurance agreements, we
    pay a reinsurance premium

15

Table of Contents   

generally based on fees associated with the guarantees collected
    from policyholders, and receive reimbursement for benefits paid
    or accrued in excess of account values, subject to certain
    limitations.

Our Corporate Benefit Funding segment has periodically engaged
    in reinsurance activities, as considered appropriate.

Our Auto   Home segment purchases reinsurance to
    manage its exposure to large losses (primarily catastrophe
    losses) and to protect statutory surplus. We cede to reinsurers
    a portion of losses and premiums based upon the exposure of the
    policies subject to reinsurance. To manage exposure to large
    property and casualty losses, we utilize property catastrophe,
    casualty and property per risk excess of loss agreements.

International   

For certain of our life insurance products, we reinsure risks
    above the corporate retention limit of up to $5 million to
    external reinsurers on a yearly renewable term basis. We may
    also reinsure certain risks with external reinsurers depending
    upon the nature of the risk and local regulatory requirements.

For selected large corporate clients, our International segment
    reinsures group employee benefits or credit insurance business
    with various client-affiliated reinsurance companies, covering
    policies issued to the employees or customers of the clients.
    Additionally, we cede and assume risk with other insurance
    companies when either company requires a business partner with
    the appropriate local licensing to issue certain types of
    policies in certain countries. In these cases, the assuming
    company typically underwrites the risks, develops the products
    and assumes most or all of the risk.

Our International segment also has reinsurance agreements in
    force that reinsure a portion of the living and death benefit
    guarantees issued in connection with our variable annuities.
    Under these agreements, we pay reinsurance fees associated with
    the guarantees collected from policyholders, and receive
    reimbursement for benefits paid or accrued in excess of account
    values, subject to certain limitations.

Banking,
    Corporate   Other   

We also reinsure through 100% quota share reinsurance agreements
    certain run-off LTC and workers  compensation business
    written by MetLife Insurance Company of Connecticut
    ( MICC ), a subsidiary of the Company.

Catastrophe
    Coverage   

We have exposure to catastrophes, which could contribute to
    significant fluctuations in our results of operations. We also
    use excess of retention and quota share reinsurance arrangements
    to provide greater diversification of risk and minimize exposure
    to larger risks. For our International segment, we currently
    purchase catastrophe coverage to insure risks within certain
    countries deemed by management to be exposed to the greatest
    catastrophic risks.

Reinsurance
    Recoverables   

For information regarding ceded reinsurance recoverable
    balances, included in premiums, reinsurance and other
    receivables in the consolidated balance sheets, see Note 9
    of the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements.

U.S.
    Regulation  

Insurance
    Regulation   

Metropolitan Life Insurance Company ( MLIC ) is
    licensed to transact insurance business in, and is subject to
    regulation and supervision by, all 50 states, the District
    of Columbia, Guam, Puerto Rico, Canada, the U.S. Virgin
    Islands and Northern Mariana Islands. Each of MetLife s
    insurance subsidiaries is licensed and regulated in each
    U.S. and international jurisdiction where it conducts
    insurance business. The extent of such regulation varies, but
    most jurisdictions have laws and regulations governing the
    financial aspects of insurers, including standards of

16

Table of Contents   

solvency, statutory reserves, reinsurance and capital adequacy,
    and the business conduct of insurers. In addition, statutes and
    regulations usually require the licensing of insurers and their
    agents, the approval of policy forms and certain other related
    materials and, for certain lines of insurance, the approval of
    rates. Such statutes and regulations also prescribe the
    permitted types and concentration of investments. New York
    Insurance Law limits the amount of compensation that insurers
    doing business in New York may pay to their agents, as well as
    the amount of total expenses, including sales commissions and
    marketing expenses, that such insurers may incur in connection
    with the sale of life insurance policies and annuity contracts
    throughout the U.S.

Each insurance subsidiary is required to file reports, generally
    including detailed annual financial statements, with insurance
    regulatory authorities in each of the jurisdictions in which it
    does business, and its operations and accounts are subject to
    periodic examination by such authorities. These subsidiaries
    must also file, and in many jurisdictions and in some lines of
    insurance obtain regulatory approval for, rules, rates and forms
    relating to the insurance written in the jurisdictions in which
    they operate.

The National Association of Insurance Commissioners
    ( NAIC ) has established a program of accrediting
    state insurance departments. NAIC accreditation contemplates
    that accredited states will conduct periodic examinations of
    insurers domiciled in such states. NAIC-accredited states will
    not accept reports of examination of insurers from unaccredited
    states, except under limited circumstances. As a direct result,
    insurers domiciled in unaccredited states may be subject to
    financial examination by accredited states in which they are
    licensed, in addition to any examinations conducted by their
    domiciliary states. In 2009, the New York State Department of
    Insurance (the  Department ), MLIC s principal
    insurance regulator, received accreditation from the NAIC.
    Previously, the Department was not accredited by the NAIC, but
    the absence of this accreditation did not have a significant
    impact upon our ability to conduct our insurance businesses.

State and federal insurance and securities regulatory
    authorities and other state law enforcement agencies and
    attorneys general from time to time make inquiries regarding
    compliance by the Holding Company and its insurance subsidiaries
    with insurance, securities and other laws and regulations
    regarding the conduct of our insurance and securities
    businesses. We cooperate with such inquiries and take corrective
    action when warranted. See Note 16 of the Notes to the
    Consolidated Financial Statements.

Holding Company Regulation.   The Holding
    Company and its U.S. insurance subsidiaries are subject to
    regulation under the insurance holding company laws of various
    jurisdictions. The insurance holding company laws and
    regulations vary from jurisdiction to jurisdiction, but
    generally require a controlled insurance company (insurers that
    are subsidiaries of insurance holding companies) to register
    with state regulatory authorities and to file with those
    authorities certain reports, including information concerning
    its capital structure, ownership, financial condition, certain
    intercompany transactions and general business operations.

State insurance statutes also typically place restrictions and
    limitations on the amount of dividends or other distributions
    payable by insurance company subsidiaries to their parent
    companies, as well as on transactions between an insurer and its
    affiliates. See  Management s Discussion and Analysis
    of Financial Condition and Results of Operations  
    Liquidity and Capital Resources   The Holding
    Company   Liquidity and Capital Sources  
    Dividends from Subsidiaries. 

Guaranty Associations and Similar
    Arrangements.   Most of the jurisdictions in which
    our U.S. insurance subsidiaries are admitted to transact
    business require life and property and casualty insurers doing
    business within the jurisdiction to participate in guaranty
    associations, which are organized to pay certain contractual
    insurance benefits owed pursuant to insurance policies issued by
    impaired, insolvent or failed insurers. These associations levy
    assessments, up to prescribed limits, on all member insurers in
    a particular state on the basis of the proportionate share of
    the premiums written by member insurers in the lines of business
    in which the impaired, insolvent or failed insurer is engaged.
    Some states permit member insurers to recover assessments paid
    through full or partial premium tax offsets.

In the past five years, the aggregate assessments levied against
    MetLife have not been material. We have established liabilities
    for guaranty fund assessments that we consider adequate for
    assessments with respect to insurers that are currently subject
    to insolvency proceedings. See Note 16 of the Notes to the
    Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information on
    the insolvency assessments.

17

Table of Contents   

Statutory Insurance Examination.   As part of
    their regulatory oversight process, state insurance departments
    conduct periodic detailed examinations of the books, records,
    accounts, and business practices of insurers domiciled in their
    states. State insurance departments also have the authority to
    conduct examinations of non-domiciliary insurers that are
    licensed in their states. During the three-year period ended
    December 31, 2010, MetLife has not received any material
    adverse findings resulting from state insurance department
    examinations of its insurance subsidiaries conducted during this
    three-year period.

Regulatory authorities in a small number of states, Financial
    Industry Regulatory Authority ( FINRA ) and,
    occasionally, the SEC, have had investigations or inquiries
    relating to sales of individual life insurance policies or
    annuities or other products by MLIC, MetLife Securities, Inc.,
    New England Life Insurance Company, New England Securities
    Corporation, General American Life Insurance Company, Walnut
    Street Securities, Inc., MICC and Tower Square Securities, Inc.
    These investigations often focus on the conduct of particular
    financial services representatives and the sale of unregistered
    or unsuitable products or the misuse of client assets. Over the
    past several years, these and a number of investigations by
    other regulatory authorities were resolved for monetary payments
    and certain other relief, including restitution payments. We may
    continue to resolve investigations in a similar manner.

Policy and Contract Reserve Sufficiency
    Analysis.   Annually, our U.S. insurance
    subsidiaries are required to conduct an analysis of the
    sufficiency of all statutory reserves. In each case, a qualified
    actuary must submit an opinion which states that the statutory
    reserves, when considered in light of the assets held with
    respect to such reserves, make good and sufficient provision for
    the associated contractual obligations and related expenses of
    the insurer. If such an opinion cannot be provided, the insurer
    must set up additional reserves by moving funds from surplus.
    Since inception of this requirement, our U.S. insurance
    subsidiaries which are required by their states of domicile to
    provide these opinions have provided such opinions without
    qualifications.

Surplus and Capital.   Our U.S. insurance
    subsidiaries are subject to the supervision of the regulators in
    each jurisdiction in which they are licensed to transact
    business. Regulators have discretionary authority, in connection
    with the continued licensing of these insurance subsidiaries, to
    limit or prohibit sales to policyholders if, in their judgment,
    the regulators determine that such insurer has not maintained
    the minimum surplus or capital or that the further transaction
    of business will be hazardous to policyholders. See
       Risk-Based Capital. 

Risk-Based Capital
    (  RBC  ).   Each of our
    U.S. insurance subsidiaries that is subject to RBC
    requirements reports its RBC based on a formula calculated by
    applying factors to various asset, premium and statutory reserve
    items, as well as taking into account the risk characteristics
    of the insurer. The major categories of risk involved are asset
    risk, insurance risk, interest rate risk, market risk and
    business risk. The formula is used as an early warning
    regulatory tool to identify possible inadequately capitalized
    insurers for purposes of initiating regulatory action, and not
    as a means to rank insurers generally. State insurance laws
    provide insurance regulators the authority to require various
    actions by, or take various actions against, insurers whose RBC
    ratio does not meet or exceed certain RBC levels. As of the date
    of the most recent annual statutory financial statements filed
    with insurance regulators, the RBC of each of these subsidiaries
    was in excess of each of those RBC levels. See
     Management s Discussion and Analysis of Financial
    Condition and Results of Operations   Liquidity and
    Capital Resources   The Company  
    Capital. 

Statutory Accounting Principles.   The NAIC
    provides standardized insurance industry accounting and
    reporting guidance through its Accounting Practices and
    Procedures Manual (the  Manual ). However, statutory
    accounting principles continue to be established by individual
    state laws, regulations and permitted practices. The Department
    has adopted the Manual with certain modifications for the
    preparation of statutory financial statements of insurance
    companies domiciled in New York. Changes to the Manual or
    modifications by the various state insurance departments may
    impact the statutory capital and surplus of the Company s
    U.S. insurance subsidiaries.

Regulation of Investments.   Each of our
    U.S. insurance subsidiaries are subject to state laws and
    regulations that require diversification of our investment
    portfolios and limit the amount of investments in certain asset
    categories, such as below investment grade fixed income
    securities, equity real estate, other equity investments, and
    derivatives. Failure to comply with these laws and regulations
    would cause investments exceeding regulatory limitations to be
    treated as non-admitted assets for purposes of measuring surplus
    and, in some instances, would

18

Table of Contents   

require divestiture of such non-qualifying investments. We
    believe that the investments made by each of the Company s
    insurance subsidiaries complied, in all material respects, with
    such regulations at December 31, 2010.

Until various studies are completed and final regulations are
    promulgated pursuant to the Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and
    Consumer Protection Act ( Dodd-Frank ), the full
    impact of Dodd-Frank on the investments, investment activities
    and insurance and annuity products of the Company remain
    unclear. See  Risk Factors   Various Aspects of
    Dodd-Frank Could Impact Our Business Operations, Capital
    Requirements and Profitability and Limit Our Growth. 

Federal Initiatives.   Although the federal
    government generally does not directly regulate the insurance
    business, federal initiatives often have an impact on our
    business in a variety of ways. See  Risk
    Factors   Various Aspects of Dodd-Frank Could Impact
    Our Business Operations, Capital Requirements and Profitability
    and Limit Our Growth.  From time to time, federal measures
    are proposed which may significantly affect the insurance
    business. These areas include financial services regulation,
    securities regulation, pension regulation, health care
    regulation, privacy, tort reform legislation and taxation. In
    addition, various forms of direct and indirect federal
    regulation of insurance have been proposed from time to time,
    including proposals for the establishment of an optional federal
    charter for insurance companies. Dodd-Frank established the
    Federal Insurance Office within the Department of Treasury to
    collect information about the insurance industry, recommend
    prudential standards, and represent the U.S. in dealings
    with foreign insurance regulators. See  Risk
    Factors   Our Insurance, Brokerage and Banking
    Businesses Are Heavily Regulated, and Changes in
    Regulation May Reduce Our Profitability and Limit Our
    Growth. 

Financial
    Holding Company Regulation   

Regulatory Agencies.   As the owner of a
    federally-chartered bank, MetLife, Inc. is a bank holding
    company and financial holding company. As such, the Holding
    Company is subject to regulation under the Bank Holding Company
    Act of 1956, as amended (the  BHC Act ), and to
    inspection, examination, and supervision by the Board of
    Governors of the Federal Reserve Bank of New York. In addition,
    MetLife Bank is subject to regulation and examination primarily
    by the OCC and secondarily by the Federal Reserve Bank of New
    York and the FDIC, as described below under    Banking
    Regulation. 

Financial Holding Company Activities.   As a
    financial holding company, MetLife, Inc. s activities and
    investments are restricted by the BHC Act, as amended by the
    Gramm-Leach-Bliley Act of 1999 (the  GLB Act ), to
    those that are  financial  in nature or
     incidental  or  complementary  to such
    financial activities. Activities that are financial in nature
    include securities underwriting, dealing and market making,
    sponsoring mutual funds and investment companies, insurance
    underwriting and agency, merchant banking and activities that
    the Federal Reserve Board has determined to be closely related
    to banking. In addition, under the insurance company investment
    portfolio provision of the GLB Act, financial holding companies
    are authorized to make investments in other financial and
    non-financial companies, through their insurance subsidiaries,
    that are in the ordinary course of business and in accordance
    with state insurance law, provided the financial holding company
    does not routinely manage or operate such companies except as
    may be necessary to obtain a reasonable return on investment.
    Under Dodd-Frank, as a large, interconnected bank holding
    company with assets of $50 billion or more, or possibly as
    an otherwise systemically important financial company, MetLife,
    Inc. will be subject to enhanced prudential standards imposed on
    systemically significant financial companies. Enhanced standards
    will be applied to RBC, liquidity, leverage (unless another,
    similar standard is appropriate for the Company), resolution
    plan and credit exposure reporting, concentration limits, and
    risk management. The so-called  Volcker Rule 
    provisions of Dodd-Frank restrict the ability of affiliates of
    insured depository institutions (such as MetLife Bank) to engage
    in proprietary trading or sponsor or invest in hedge funds or
    private equity funds. See  Risk Factors   Various
    Aspects of Dodd-Frank Could Impact Our Business Operations,
    Capital Requirements and Profitability and Limit Our
    Growth. 

Capital.   MetLife, Inc. and MetLife Bank are
    subject to risk-based and leverage capital guidelines issued by
    the federal banking regulatory agencies for banks and financial
    holding companies. The federal banking regulatory agencies are
    required by law to take specific prompt corrective actions with
    respect to institutions that do not meet minimum capital
    standards. MetLife, Inc. may become required to comply with
    further requirements relating to the

19

Table of Contents   

calculation of capital, commonly referred to as  Basel
    II,  which could require significant investment by the
    Company, including software. In addition, in December 2010, the
    Basel Committee on Banking Supervision published its final rules
    for increased capital and liquidity requirements (commonly
    referred to as  Basel III ) for bank holding
    companies, such as MetLife, Inc. Assuming these requirements are
    endorsed and adopted by the U.S., they are to be phased in
    beginning January 1, 2013. It is possible that even more
    stringent capital and liquidity requirements could be imposed
    under Dodd-Frank if MetLife, Inc. is determined to be a
    systemically important company. The ability of MetLife Bank and
    MetLife, Inc. to pay dividends could be reduced by any
    additional capital requirements that might be imposed as a
    result of the enactment of Dodd-Frank
     and/or  the
    endorsement and adoption by the U.S. of Basel III. See
     Risk Factors   Various Aspects of Dodd-Frank
    Could Impact Our Business Operations, Capital Requirements and
    Profitability and Limit Our Growth  and  Risk
    Factors   Our Insurance, Brokerage and Banking
    Businesses Are Heavily Regulated, and Changes in
    Regulation May Reduce Our Profitability and Limit Our
    Growth.  At December 31, 2010, MetLife, Inc. and
    MetLife Bank were in compliance with applicable requirements
    currently in effect.

Consumer Protection Laws.   Numerous other
    federal and state laws also affect the Holding Company s
    and MetLife Bank s earnings and activities, including
    federal and state consumer protection laws. The GLB Act included
    consumer privacy provisions that, among other things, require
    disclosure of a financial institution s privacy policy to
    customers. In addition, these provisions permit states to adopt
    more extensive privacy protections through legislation or
    regulation. As part of Dodd-Frank, Congress established the
    Bureau of Consumer Financial Protection to supervise and
    regulate institutions that provide certain financial products
    and services to consumers. Although the consumer financial
    services subject to the Bureau s jurisdiction generally
    exclude insurance business of the kind in which we engage, the
    Bureau does have authority to regulate consumer services
    provided by MetLife Bank.

Change of Control and Restrictions on Mergers and
    Acquisitions.   Because MetLife, Inc. is a
    financial holding company and bank holding company, no person
    may acquire control of MetLife, Inc. without the prior approval
    of the Federal Reserve Board. A change of control is
    conclusively presumed upon acquisition of 25% or more of any
    class of voting securities and rebuttably presumed upon
    acquisition of 10% or more of any class of voting securities.
    Further, as a result of MetLife, Inc. s ownership of
    MetLife Bank, approval from the OCC would be required in
    connection with a change of control (generally presumed upon the
    acquisition of 10% or more of any class of voting securities) of
    MetLife, Inc. As a result of Dodd-Frank, Federal Reserve
    approval would be required after July 21, 2011, for any
    acquisition of a non-bank firm by a bank holding company having
    more than $10 billion of assets, such as MetLife, Inc. As a
    bank holding company with assets of $50 billion or more,
    MetLife, Inc. will be required to provide prior notice to the
    Federal Reserve before acquiring control of voting shares of a
    company engaged in financial activities that has
    $10 billion or more of consolidated assets. MetLife, Inc.
    received the approval of the Federal Reserve prior to
    consummating the Acquisition.

Banking
    Regulation   

As a federally chartered national association, MetLife Bank is
    subject to a wide variety of banking laws, regulations and
    guidelines. Federal banking laws regulate most aspects of the
    business of MetLife Bank, but certain state laws may apply as
    well. MetLife Bank is principally regulated by the OCC and
    secondarily by the Federal Reserve Bank of New York and the
    FDIC. Federal banking laws and regulations address various
    aspects of MetLife Bank s business and operations with
    respect to, among other things, chartering to carry on business
    as a bank; maintaining minimum capital ratios; capital
    management in relation to the bank s assets; safety and
    soundness standards; loan loss and other statutory reserves;
    liquidity; financial reporting and disclosure standards;
    counterparty credit concentration; restrictions on related party
    and affiliate transactions; lending limits; payment of interest;
    unfair or deceptive acts or practices; privacy; and bank holding
    company and bank change of control. MetLife Bank is also subject
    to the jurisdiction of the Bureau of Consumer Financial
    Protection created by Dodd-Frank to promulgate and enforce
    consumer protection rules for certain kinds of financial
    products.
     Dodd-Frank 
    established a statutory standard for Federal preemption of state
    consumer financial protection laws, which standard will require
    national banks to comply with many state consumer financial
    protection laws that previously were considered preempted by
    Federal law. The FDIC has the right to assess FDIC-insured banks
    for funds to help pay the obligations of insolvent banks to
    depositors. Federal and state banking regulators regularly

20

Table of Contents   

re-examine 
    existing laws and regulations applicable to banks and their
    products. Changes in these laws and regulations, or in
    interpretations thereof, are often made for the benefit of the
    consumer at the expense of the bank.

Securities,
    Broker-Dealer and Investment Adviser Regulation   

Some of our subsidiaries and their activities in offering and
    selling variable insurance products are subject to extensive
    regulation under the federal securities laws administered by the
    U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission ( SEC ).
    These subsidiaries issue variable annuity contracts and variable
    life insurance policies through separate accounts that are
    registered with the SEC as investment companies under the
    Investment Company Act of 1940, as amended (the  Investment
    Company Act ). Each registered separate account is
    generally divided into
     sub-accounts, 
    each of which invests in an underlying mutual fund which is
    itself a registered investment company under the Investment
    Company Act. In addition, the variable annuity contracts and
    variable life insurance policies issued by the separate accounts
    are registered with the SEC under the Securities Act of 1933, as
    amended (the  Securities Act ). Other subsidiaries are
    registered with the SEC as broker-dealers under the Securities
    Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (the  Exchange Act ),
    and are members of, and subject to, regulation by FINRA.
    Further, some of our subsidiaries are registered as investment
    advisers with the SEC under the Investment Advisers Act of 1940,
    as amended (the  Investment Advisers Act ), and are
    also registered as investment advisers in various states, as
    applicable. Certain variable contract separate accounts
    sponsored by our subsidiaries are exempt from registration, but
    may be subject to other provisions of the federal securities
    laws.

Federal and state securities regulatory authorities and FINRA
    from time to time make inquiries and conduct examinations
    regarding compliance by the Holding Company and its subsidiaries
    with securities and other laws and regulations. We cooperate
    with such inquiries and examinations and take corrective action
    when warranted.

Federal and state securities laws and regulations are primarily
    intended to protect investors in the securities markets and
    generally grant regulatory agencies broad rulemaking and
    enforcement powers, including the power to limit or restrict the
    conduct of business for failure to comply with such laws and
    regulations. We may also be subject to similar laws and
    regulations in the foreign countries in which we provide
    investment advisory services, offer products similar to those
    described above, or conduct other activities.

Environmental
    Considerations   

As an owner and operator of real property, we are subject to
    extensive federal, state and local environmental laws and
    regulations. Inherent in such ownership and operation is also
    the risk that there may be potential environmental liabilities
    and costs in connection with any required remediation of such
    properties. In addition, we hold equity interests in companies
    that could potentially be subject to environmental liabilities.
    We routinely have environmental assessments performed with
    respect to real estate being acquired for investment and real
    property to be acquired through foreclosure. We cannot provide
    assurance that unexpected environmental liabilities will not
    arise. However, based on information currently available to us,
    we believe that any costs associated with compliance with
    environmental laws and regulations or any remediation of such
    properties will not have a material adverse effect on our
    business, results of operations or financial condition.

Employee
    Retirement Income Security Act of 1974 ( ERISA )
    Considerations   

We provide products and services to certain employee benefit
    plans that are subject to ERISA, or the Internal Revenue Code of
    1986, as amended (the  Code ). As such, our activities
    are subject to the restrictions imposed by ERISA and the Code,
    including the requirement under ERISA that fiduciaries must
    perform their duties solely in the interests of ERISA plan
    participants and beneficiaries and the requirement under ERISA
    and the Code that fiduciaries may not cause a covered plan to
    engage in prohibited transactions with persons who have certain
    relationships with respect to such plans. The applicable
    provisions of ERISA and the Code are subject to enforcement by
    the Department of Labor ( DOL ), the Internal Revenue
    Service ( IRS ) and the Pension Benefit Guaranty
    Corporation.

In  John Hancock Mutual Life Insurance Company v. Harris Trust
    and Savings Bank (1993),  the U.S. Supreme Court held
    that certain assets in excess of amounts necessary to satisfy
    guaranteed obligations under a participating group annuity
    general account contract are  plan assets.  Therefore,
    these assets are subject to certain fiduciary

21

Table of Contents   

obligations under ERISA, which requires fiduciaries to perform
    their duties solely in the interest of ERISA plan participants
    and beneficiaries. On January 5, 2000, the Secretary of
    Labor issued final regulations indicating, in cases where an
    insurer has issued a policy backed by the insurer s general
    account to or for an employee benefit plan, the extent to which
    assets of the insurer constitute plan assets for purposes of
    ERISA and the Code. The regulations apply only with respect to a
    policy issued by an insurer on or before December 31, 1998
    ( Transition Policy ). No person will generally be
    liable under ERISA or the Code for conduct occurring prior to
    July 5, 2001, where the basis of a claim is that insurance
    company general account assets constitute plan assets. An
    insurer issuing a new policy that is backed by its general
    account and is issued to or for an employee benefit plan after
    December 31, 1998 will generally be subject to fiduciary
    obligations under ERISA, unless the policy is a guaranteed
    benefit policy.

The regulations indicate the requirements that must be met so
    that assets supporting a Transition Policy will not be
    considered plan assets for purposes of ERISA and the Code. These
    requirements include detailed disclosures to be made to the
    employee benefits plan and the requirement that the insurer must
    permit the policyholder to terminate the policy on 90 day
    notice and receive without penalty, at the policyholder s
    option, either (i) the unallocated accumulated fund balance
    (which may be subject to market value adjustment) or (ii) a
    book value payment of such amount in annual installments with
    interest. We have taken and continue to take steps designed to
    ensure compliance with these regulations.

Legislative
    and Regulatory Developments   

Dodd-Frank, enacted in July 2010, effected the most far-reaching
    overhaul of financial regulation in the U.S. in decades.
    Dodd-Frank also establishes the framework for new regulations
    relating to prudential standards for systemically significant
    financial companies, certain investment activities, consumer
    protection, the liquidation of bank holding companies,
    derivative transitions, corporate governance and executive
    compensation. These changes are particularly relevant to the
    Company as an insurer, public company and bank holding company.
    The potential impact of these changes on the Company are more
    fully discussed under  Risk Factors   Various
    Aspects of Dodd-Frank Could Impact Our Business Operations,
    Capital Requirements and Profitability and Limit Our
    Growth,   Risk Factors   Our Insurance,
    Brokerage and Banking Businesses Are Heavily Regulated, and
    Changes in Regulation May Reduce Our Profitability and
    Limit Our Growth  and  Risk Factors   New
    and Impending Compensation and Corporate Governance Regulations
    Could Hinder or Prevent Us From Attracting and Retaining
    Management and Other Employees with the Talent and Experience to
    Manage and Conduct Our Business Effectively.  The full
    impact of Dodd-Frank on us will depend on the numerous
    rulemaking initiatives required or permitted by Dodd-Frank and
    the various studies mandated by Dodd-Frank, which are scheduled
    to be completed over the next few years.

We cannot predict what other proposals may be made, what
    legislation may be introduced or enacted or the impact of any
    such legislation on our business, results of operations and
    financial condition.

International
    Regulation  

With the acquisition of ALICO, the Company has significantly
    expanded its scope of operations in foreign jurisdictions. The
    Company s international operations are regulated in the
    jurisdictions in which they are located or operate. The
    Company s international insurance operations are subject to
    minimum capital, solvency and operational requirements. The
    authority of the Company s international operations to
    conduct business is subject to licensing requirements, permits
    and approvals, and these authorizations are subject to
    modification and revocation. Periodic examinations of insurance
    company books and records, financial reporting requirements,
    market conduct examinations and policy filing requirements are
    among the techniques used by regulators to supervise our
     non-U.S. insurance 
    businesses. The Company also has investment and pension
    companies in certain foreign jurisdictions that provide mutual
    fund, pension and other financial products and services. Those
    entities are subject to securities, investment, pension and
    other laws and regulations, and oversight by the relevant
    securities, pension and other authorities of the countries in
    which the companies operate.

The Company s international operations are exposed to
    increased political, legal, financial, operational and other
    risks. Our international operations may be materially adversely
    affected by the actions and decisions of foreign authorities and
    regulators, such as through nationalization or expropriation of
    assets, the imposition of limits

22

Table of Contents   

on foreign ownership of local companies, changes in laws
    (including tax laws and regulations), their application or
    interpretation, political instability, dividend limitations,
    price controls, currency exchange controls or other restrictions
    that prevent us from transferring funds from these operations
    out of the countries in which they operate or converting local
    currencies we hold into U.S. dollars or other currencies,
    as well as other adverse actions by foreign governmental
    authorities and regulators. Such actions may negatively affect
    our business in these jurisdictions. See  Risk
    Factors   Our International Operations Face Political,
    Legal, Operational and Other Risks, Including Exposure to Local
    and Regional Economic Conditions, That Could Negatively Affect
    Those Operations or Our Profitability. 

Certain of the Company s international insurance
    operations, including Japan, may be subject to assessments,
    generally based on their proportionate share of business written
    in the relevant jurisdiction, for certain obligations to
    policyholders and claimants resulting from the insolvency of
    insurance companies. Under the Japanese Insurance Business Law,
    all licensed life insurers in Japan are assessed on a pre-funded
    basis by the Life Insurance Policyholders Protection Corporation
    of Japan. These assessments are aggregated across all licensed
    life insurers in Japan and used to satisfy certain obligations
    to policyholders and claimants of insolvent life insurance
    companies. As we cannot predict the timing and scope of future
    assessments, they may materially affect the results of
    operations of the Company s international insurance
    operations in particular quarterly or annual periods. In
    addition, in some jurisdictions, some of the Company s
    insurance products are considered  securities  under
    local law and may be subject to local securities regulations and
    oversight by local securities regulators.

Our operations in Japan are subject to regulation and
    examination by Japan s Financial Services Agency
    ( FSA ). Our operations in Japan are required to file
    with the FSA annual reports which include financial statements.
    Similar to the U.S., Japanese law provides that insurers in
    Japan must maintain specified solvency standards for the
    protection of policyholders and to support the financial
    strength of licensed insurers. As of September 30, 2010,
    the date of our most recent regulatory filing in Japan, the
    solvency margin ratio of our Japan operations was 1,466%, which
    is significantly in excess of the legally mandated solvency
    margin in Japan. The FSA has issued a proposal to revise the
    current method of calculating the solvency margin ratio. The FSA
    intends to apply the revised method to life insurance companies
    for the fiscal year-end 2011 (March 31, 2012) for life
    insurance companies in Japan, and require the disclosure of the
    ratio as reference information for fiscal year-end 2010
    (March 31, 2011).

A portion of the annual earnings of our Japan operations may be
    repatriated each year, and may further be distributed to the
    Holding Company as a dividend. We may determine not to
    repatriate profits from the Japan operations or to repatriate a
    reduced amount in order to maintain or improve the solvency
    margin of the Japan operations or for other reasons. In
    addition, the FSA may limit or not permit profit repatriations
    or other transfers of funds to the U.S. if such transfers would
    be detrimental to the solvency or financial strength of our
    Japan operations or for other reasons.

In addition, the European Commission has established
    Solvency II as a new capital adequacy regime for the
    European insurance industry, which will become effective
    beginning in 2013. Solvency II sets capital standards for
    insurers on a risk basis and has a three-pillar structure
    covering quantitative requirements, supervisory review, and
    market disclosure. Regulators in certain other countries, such
    as Mexico, are also establishing new capital regimes similar to
    Solvency II. Compliance with these new capital standards
    may impact the level of capital required to be held at
    individual legal entities. Further, the efforts required to
    comply with these regulations may increase operating costs at
    these entities.

We expect the scope and extent of regulation outside of the
    U.S., as well as regulatory oversight, generally to continue to
    increase. That oversight, and the legal and regulatory
    environment in the countries in which the Company operates,
    could have a material adverse effect on the Company s
    results of operations.

Governmental
    Responses to Extraordinary Market Conditions  

U.S.
    Federal Governmental Responses   

Dodd-Frank was enacted in response to the recent economic
    crisis. See    Legislative and Regulatory
    Developments.  Actions taken by Congress, the Federal
    Reserve Bank of New York, the U.S. Treasury and other

23

Table of Contents   

agencies of the U.S. Federal government prior to the
    enactment of Dodd-Frank were increasingly aggressive and,
    together with a series of interest rate reductions that began in
    the second half of 2007, intended to provide liquidity to
    financial institutions and markets, to avert a loss of investor
    confidence in particular troubled institutions and to prevent or
    contain the spread of the financial crisis. These measures
    included:

expanding the types of institutions that have access to the
    Federal Reserve Bank of New York s discount window;

providing asset guarantees and emergency loans to particular
    distressed companies;

a temporary ban on short selling of shares of certain financial
    institutions (including, for a period, MetLife);

programs intended to reduce the volume of mortgage foreclosures
    by modifying the terms of mortgage loans for distressed
    borrowers;

temporarily guaranteeing money market funds; and

programs to support the mortgage-backed securities market and
    mortgage lending.

Many of the actions outlined above expired or terminated by
    mid-2010 or earlier.

In addition to these actions, pursuant to the Emergency Economic
    Stabilization Act of 2008 ( EESA ), enacted in October
    2008, the U.S. Treasury injected capital into selected
    financial institutions and their holding companies. EESA also
    authorized the U.S. Treasury to purchase mortgage-backed
    and other securities from financial institutions as part of the
    overall $700 billion available for the purpose of
    stabilizing the financial markets; this authority expired in
    October 2010. The Federal government, the Federal Reserve Bank
    of New York, FDIC and other governmental and regulatory bodies
    also took other actions to address the financial crisis. For
    example, the Federal Reserve Bank of New York made funds
    available to commercial and financial companies under a number
    of programs, including the Commercial Paper Funding Facility
    (the  CPFF ), and the FDIC established the Temporary
    Liquidity Guarantee Program (the  FDIC Program ). In
    March 2009, MetLife, Inc. issued $397 million of senior
    notes guaranteed by the FDIC under the FDIC Program. The FDIC
    Program and the CPFF expired in late 2009 and early 2010,
    respectively. During the period of its existence, the Company
    made limited use of the CPFF, and no amounts were outstanding
    under the CPFF at December 31, 2009.

In February 2009, the Treasury Department outlined a financial
    stability plan with additional measures to provide capital
    relief to institutions holding troubled assets, including a
    capital assistance program for banks that have undergone a
     stress test  (the  Capital Assistance
    Program ) and a public-private investment fund to purchase
    troubled assets from financial institutions. MetLife was
    eligible to participate in the U.S. Treasury s Capital
    Purchase Program, a voluntary capital infusion program
    established under EESA, but elected not to participate in that
    program. MetLife took part in the  stress test  and
    was advised by the Federal Reserve in May 2009 that, based on
    the stress test s economic scenarios and methodology,
    MetLife had adequate capital to sustain a further deterioration
    in the economy. In January 2011, MetLife submitted to the
    Federal Reserve a comprehensive capital plan, as mandated by the
    Federal Reserve for the same bank holding companies that
    completed the 2009 stress test. The capital plan projects
    MetLife s capital levels to the end of 2012 under baseline
    and stress scenarios. The Federal Reserve has stated that it
    will consider the results of the capital plan exercise in
    evaluating proposed capital actions by participating bank
    holding companies, such as common stock dividend increases and
    stock repurchases. The Federal Reserve has indicated that it
    will provide its assessment of participating institutions 
    capital plans in late March 2011.

State
    Insurance Regulatory Responses   

The NAIC adopted a number of reserve and capital relief
    proposals during 2009. The NAIC revisited many of those
    adoptions and studied related and additional topics for
    potential adoption during 2010.

The NAIC revisited the mortgage experience adjustment factor
    (the  MEAF ) which is utilized in calculating RBC
    charges that are assigned to commercial and agricultural
    mortgages held by our domestic insurers. The MEAF calculation
    includes the ratio of an insurer s commercial and
    agricultural mortgage default experience to the industry average
    commercial and agricultural mortgage default experience and, in
    2009, a cap of 125% and a floor

24

Table of Contents   

of 75% were adopted. The NAIC adopted during 2010 a cap of 175%
    and a floor of 80%. As a result of this revision in MEAF for
    2010, the RBC impact on our U.S. insurance subsidiaries is
    not likely to be material.

In late 2009, the NAIC issued Statement of Statutory Accounting
    Principles ( SSAP ) 10R ( SSAP 10R ). SSAP
    10R increased the amount of deferred tax assets that may be
    admitted on a statutory basis. The admission criteria for
    realizing the value of deferred tax assets was increased from a
    one year to a three year period. Further, the aggregate cap on
    deferred tax assets that may be admitted was increased from 10%
    to 15% of surplus. These changes increased the capital and
    surplus of our U.S. insurance subsidiaries, thereby
    positively impacting RBC at December 31, 2009. To temper
    this positive RBC impact, and as a temporary measure at
    December 31, 2009 only, a 5% pre-tax RBC charge must be
    applied to the additional admitted deferred tax assets generated
    by SSAP 10R. The adoption for 2009 had a December 31, 2009
    sunset; however, during 2010, the 2009 adoption, including the
    5% pre-tax RBC charge, was extended through December 31,
    2011.

In late 2009, following rating agency downgrades of virtually
    all residential mortgage-backed securities ( RMBS )
    from certain vintages, the NAIC engaged PIMCO Advisory
    ( PIMCO ), a provider of investment advisory services,
    to analyze approximately 20,000 RMBS held by insurers and
    evaluate the likely loss that holders of those securities would
    suffer in the event of a default. PIMCO s analysis showed
    that the severity of expected losses on those securities
    evaluated that are held by our U.S. insurance companies was
    significantly less than would be implied by the rating
    agencies  ratings of such securities. The NAIC incorporated
    the results of PIMCO s analysis into the RBC charges
    assigned to the evaluated securities, with a beneficial impact
    on the RBC of our U.S. insurance subsidiaries. The NAIC
    utilized the solution again for 2010. The NAIC adopted a similar
    solution for 2010 for commercial mortgage-backed securities
    ( CMBS ) by selecting BlackRock Solutions, a provider
    of investment advisory services, to assist in the RBC
    determination process. BlackRock Solutions will serve as a
    third-party modeler of the 7,000 CMBS holdings of
    U.S. insurance companies, including MetLife s
    U.S. insurance subsidiaries. The impact of the
    implementation for 2010 of the modeling solution for CMBS is not
    known at the current time but the RBC impact on our
    U.S. insurance subsidiaries is not expected to be material.

Foreign
    Governmental and Intergovernmental Responses   

In an effort to strengthen the financial condition of key
    financial institutions or avert their collapse, and to forestall
    or reduce the effects of reduced lending activity, a number of
    foreign governments and intergovernmental entities have taken
    action to enhance stability and liquidity, reduce risk and
    increase regulatory controls and oversight. Foreign government
    and intergovernmental responses have been similar to some of
    those taken by the U.S. Federal government, including
    injecting capital into domestic financial institutions in
    exchange for ownership stakes and, in the case of certain
    European Union member states such as Greece, Spain, Portugal and
    Ireland, providing or making available certain funds and rescue
    packages to support the solvency of such countries or financial
    institutions, and such responses are intended to achieve similar
    goals. We cannot predict whether foreign government
     and/or 
    intergovernmental actions will achieve their intended purpose or
    how such actions will impact competition in the financial
    services industry. We expect the scope and extent of regulation
    outside the U.S., as well as regulatory oversight, generally to
    continue to increase. That oversight, and the legal and
    regulatory environment in the countries in which the Company
    operates, could have a material adverse effect on the
    Company s results of operations.

Competition  

We believe that competition faced by our segments is based on a
    number of factors, including service, product features, scale,
    price, financial strength, claims-paying ratings, credit
    ratings,
     e-business 
    capabilities and name recognition. We compete with a large
    number of other insurance companies, as well as non-insurance
    financial services companies, such as banks, broker-dealers and
    asset managers, for individual consumers, employer and other
    group customers as well as agents and other distributors of
    insurance and investment products. Some of these companies offer
    a broader array of products, have more competitive pricing or,
    with respect to other insurance companies, have higher claims
    paying ability ratings. Many of our insurance products are
    underwritten annually and, accordingly, there is a risk that
    group purchasers may be able to obtain more favorable terms from
    competitors rather than renewing coverage with us.

25

Table of Contents   

We believe that the turbulence in financial markets that began
    in the second half of 2007, its impact on the capital position
    of many competitors, and subsequent actions by regulators and
    rating agencies have altered the competitive environment. In
    particular, we believe that these factors have highlighted
    financial strength as the most significant differentiator from
    the perspective of some customers and certain distributors. We
    believe the Company is well positioned to compete in this
    environment. In particular, the Company distributes many of its
    individual products through other financial institutions such as
    banks and broker-dealers. These distribution partners are
    currently placing greater emphasis on the financial strength of
    the company whose products they sell. In addition, the financial
    market turbulence has highlighted the extent of the risk
    associated with certain variable annuity products and has led
    many companies in our industry to re-examine the pricing and
    features of the products they offer. The effects of current
    market conditions may also lead to consolidation in the life
    insurance industry. Although we cannot predict the ultimate
    impact of these conditions, we believe that the strongest
    companies will enjoy a competitive advantage as a result of the
    current circumstances.

We must attract and retain productive sales representatives to
    sell our insurance, annuities and investment products. Strong
    competition exists among insurance companies for sales
    representatives with demonstrated ability. We compete with other
    insurance companies for sales representatives primarily on the
    basis of our financial position, support services and
    compensation and product features. See
       U.S. Business   Sales
    Distribution.  In the U.S. and selected international
    markets, we continue to undertake several initiatives to grow
    our career agency force, while continuing to enhance the
    efficiency and production of our existing sales force. We cannot
    provide assurance that these initiatives will succeed in
    attracting and retaining new agents. Sales of individual
    insurance, annuities and investment products and our results of
    operations and financial position could be materially adversely
    affected if we are unsuccessful in attracting and retaining
    agents. See  Risk Factors   We May Be Unable to
    Attract and Retain Sales Representatives for Our Products. 

Numerous aspects of our business are subject to regulation.
    Legislative and other changes affecting the regulatory
    environment can affect our competitive position within the life
    insurance industry and within the broader financial services
    industry. See    U.S. Regulation, 
       International Regulation,   Risk
    Factors   Our Insurance, Brokerage and Banking
    Businesses Are Heavily Regulated, and Changes in
    Regulation May Reduce Our Profitability and Limit Our
    Growth  and  Risk Factors   Changes in
    U.S. Federal and State Securities Laws and Regulations, and
    State Insurance Regulations Regarding Suitability of Annuity
    Product Sales, May Affect Our Operations and Our
    Profitability. 

Employees  

At December 31, 2010, we had approximately
    66,000 employees. We believe that our relations with our
    employees are satisfactory.

Executive
    Officers of the Registrant  

Set forth below is information regarding the executive officers
    of MetLife, Inc.:

C. Robert Henrikson,  age 63, has been Chairman,
    President and Chief Executive Officer of MetLife, Inc. and MLIC
    since April 25, 2006. Previously, he was President and
    Chief Executive Officer of MetLife, Inc. and MLIC from
    March 1, 2006, President and Chief Operating Officer of
    MetLife, Inc. from June 2004, and President of the
    U.S. Insurance and Financial Services businesses of
    MetLife, Inc. and MLIC from July 2002 to June 2004. He served as
    President of Institutional Business of MetLife, Inc. from
    September 1999 to July 2002 and President of Institutional
    Business of MLIC from May 1999 through June 2002. He was Senior
    Executive Vice President, Institutional Business, of MLIC from
    December 1997 to May 1999, Executive Vice President,
    Institutional Business, from January 1996 to December 1997, and
    Senior Vice President, Pensions, from January 1991 to January
    1995. He is a director of MetLife, Inc. and MLIC.

Gwenn L. Carr,  age 65, has been Executive Vice
    President and Chief of Staff to the Chairman and Chief Executive
    Officer of MetLife, Inc. and MLIC since August 2009. Previously,
    she was Senior Vice President and Chief of Staff to the Chairman
    and Chief Executive Officer of MetLife, Inc. and MLIC from June
    2009, Senior Vice President, Secretary and Chief of Staff to the
    Chairman and Chief Executive Officer of MetLife, Inc, and MLIC
    from 2007, Senior Vice President and Secretary of MetLife, Inc.
    and MLIC from October 2004, and Vice President

26

Table of Contents   

and Secretary of MetLife, Inc. and MLIC from August 1999.
    Ms. Carr was Vice President and Secretary of
    ITT Corporation from 1990 to 1999.

Kathleen A. Henkel,  age 62, has been Executive Vice
    President, Human Resources, of MetLife, Inc. and MLIC since
    March 2010. Previously, she was Senior Vice President, Human
    Resources, of MLIC from July 2008 to March 2010 and Senior Vice
    President, Institutional Business, of MLIC from December 2005 to
    July 2008. Ms. Henkel was promoted to Senior Vice President
    of MLIC after serving as a Vice President of MLIC from 1992 to
    2004. Ms. Henkel joined the Company in 1966 and has served
    in various senior management positions since that time.

Steven A. Kandarian,  age 58, has been Executive Vice
    President and Chief Investment Officer of MetLife, Inc. and MLIC
    since April 2005. Previously, he was the executive director of
    the Pension Benefit Guaranty Corporation from 2001 to 2004.
    Before joining the Pension Benefit Guaranty Corporation,
    Mr. Kandarian was founder and managing partner of Orion
    Capital Partners, LP, where he managed a private equity fund
    specializing in venture capital and corporate acquisitions for
    eight years. He is a director of MetLife Bank.

Nicholas D. Latrenta,  age 59, has been Executive
    Vice President of MetLife, Inc. and MLIC since August 2010 and
    General Counsel of MetLife, Inc. and MLIC since May 2010.
    Previously, he was Senior Chief Counsel of MLIC supporting the
    Insurance Group from March 2007 to April 2010, Chief Counsel of
    MLIC supporting Institutional Business, ERISA and the Product
    Tax Legal Group from April 2006 to February 2007, Chief Counsel
    of MLIC supporting MetLife Business-Legal from July 2004 to
    March 2006, and Senior Vice President of MLIC Institutional
    Business from October 2000 to June 2004. Mr. Latrenta was
    promoted to Senior Vice President of MLIC in 1997 after serving
    as a Vice President of MLIC from 1986 to 1997. Mr. Latrenta
    joined the Company in 1969 and has served in various senior
    management positions since that time. Mr. Latrenta is a
    director of American Life Insurance Company.

Maria R. Morris,  age 48, has been Executive Vice
    President, Technology and Operations, of MetLife, Inc. and MLIC
    since January 2008. Previously, she was Executive Vice President
    of MLIC from December 2005 to January 2008, Senior Vice
    President of MLIC from July 2003 to December 2005, and Vice
    President of MLIC from March 1997 to July 2003. Ms. Morris
    is a director of MetLife Insurance Company of Connecticut.

William J. Mullaney,  age 51, has been President,
    U.S. Business of MetLife, Inc. and MLIC since August 2009.
    Previously, he was President, Institutional Business, of
    MetLife, Inc. and MLIC from January 2007 to July 2009, President
    of Metropolitan Property and Casualty Insurance Company from
    January 2005 to January 2007, Senior Vice President of
    Metropolitan Property and Casualty Insurance Company from July
    2002 to December 2004, Senior Vice President, Institutional
    Business, of MLIC from August 2001 to July 2002, and a Vice
    President of MLIC for more than five years. He is a director of
    MetLife Bank.

William J. Toppeta,  age 62, has been President,
    International, of MetLife, Inc. and MLIC since June 2001. He was
    President of Client Services and Chief Administrative Officer of
    MetLife, Inc. from September 1999 to June 2001 and President of
    Client Services and Chief Administrative Officer of MLIC from
    May 1999 to June 2001. He was Senior Executive Vice President,
    Head of Client Services, of MLIC from March 1999 to May 1999,
    Senior Executive Vice President, Individual, from February 1998
    to March 1999, Executive Vice President, Individual Business,
    from July 1996 to February 1998, Senior Vice President from
    October 1995 to July 1996 and President and Chief Executive
    Officer of its Canadian Operations from July 1993 to October
    1995. Mr. Toppeta is a director of American Life Insurance
    Company.

William J. Wheeler,  age 49, has been Executive Vice
    President and Chief Financial Officer of MetLife, Inc. and MLIC
    since December 2003, prior to which he was a Senior Vice
    President of MLIC from 1997 to December 2003. Previously, he was
    a Senior Vice President of Donaldson, Lufkin  
    Jenrette for more than five years. Mr. Wheeler is a
    director of MetLife Bank.

Trademarks  

We have a worldwide trademark portfolio that we consider
    important in the marketing of our products and services,
    including, among others, the trademark  MetLife.  We
    also have the exclusive license to use the
    Peanuts   

    characters in the area of financial services and healthcare
    benefit services in the U.S. and internationally under an

27

Table of Contents   

advertising and premium agreement with Peanuts Worldwide, LLC
    until December 31, 2014. We also have a non-exclusive
    license to use certain Citigroup-owned trademarks in connection
    with the marketing, distribution or sale of life insurance and
    annuity products under a licensing agreement with Citigroup
    until June 30, 2015. Furthermore, as result of the recent
    Acquisition, we acquired American Life Insurance Company and its
    trademarks, including the  Alico  trademark. We
    believe that our rights in our trademarks and under our
    Peanuts   

    characters license and our Citigroup license are well protected.

Available
    Information  

MetLife files periodic reports, proxy statements and other
    information with the SEC. Such reports, proxy statements and
    other information may be obtained by visiting the Public
    Reference Room of the SEC at its Headquarters Office,
    100 F Street, N.E., Washington D.C. 20549 or by
    calling the SEC at
     1-202-551-8090 
    or
     1-800-SEC-0330 
    (Office of Investor Education and Advocacy). In addition, the
    SEC maintains an internet website (www.sec.gov) that contains
    reports, proxy statements, and other information regarding
    issuers that file electronically with the SEC, including
    MetLife, Inc.

MetLife makes available, free of charge, on its website
    (www.metlife.com) through the Investor Relations page, its
    annual reports on
     Form 10-K, 
    quarterly reports on
     Form 10-Q, 
    current reports on
     Form 8-K, 
    and amendments to all those reports, as soon as reasonably
    practicable after filing (furnishing) such reports to the SEC.
    Other information found on the website is not part of this or
    any other report filed with or furnished to the SEC.

Item 1A.      

Risk
    Factors   

Difficult
    Conditions in the Global Capital Markets and the Economy
    Generally May Materially Adversely Affect Our Business and
    Results of Operations and These Conditions May Not Improve in
    the Near Future   

Our business and results of operations are materially affected
    by conditions in the global capital markets and the economy
    generally, both in the U.S. and elsewhere around the world.
    Stressed conditions, volatility and disruptions in global
    capital markets or in particular markets or financial asset
    classes can have an adverse effect on us, in part because we
    have a large investment portfolio and our insurance liabilities
    are sensitive to changing market factors. Disruptions in one
    market or asset class can also spread to other markets or asset
    classes. Although the disruption in the global financial markets
    that began in late 2007 has moderated, not all global financial
    markets are functioning normally, and some remain reliant upon
    government intervention and liquidity. Upheavals in the
    financial markets can also affect our business through their
    effects on general levels of economic activity, employment and
    customer behavior. Although the recent recession in the U.S.
    ended in June of 2009, the recovery from the recession has been
    below historic averages and the unemployment rate is expected to
    remain high for some time. In addition, inflation is expected to
    remain at low levels for some time. Some economists believe that
    some level of disinflation and deflation risk remains in the
    U.S. economy. The global recession and disruption of the
    financial markets has led to concerns over capital markets
    access and the solvency of certain European Union member states,
    including Portugal, Ireland, Italy, Greece and Spain. The
    Japanese economy, to which we face increased exposure as a
    result of the Acquisition, continues to experience low nominal
    growth, a deflationary environment, and weak consumer spending.

Our revenues and net investment income are likely to remain
    under pressure in such circumstances and our profit margins
    could erode. Also, in the event of extreme prolonged market
    events, such as the recent global credit crisis, we could incur
    significant capital
     and/or 
    operating losses. Even in the absence of a market downturn, we
    are exposed to substantial risk of loss due to market volatility.

We are a significant writer of variable annuity products. The
    account values of these products decrease as a result of
    downturns in capital markets. Decreases in account values reduce
    the fees generated by our variable annuity products, cause the
    amortization of deferred policy acquisition costs
    ( DAC ) to accelerate and could increase the level of
    insurance liabilities we must carry to support those variable
    annuities issued with any associated guarantees.

Factors such as consumer spending, business investment,
    government spending, the volatility and strength of the capital
    markets, and inflation all affect the business and economic
    environment and, ultimately, the amount and

28

Table of Contents   

profitability of our business. In an economic downturn
    characterized by higher unemployment, lower family income, lower
    corporate earnings, lower business investment and lower consumer
    spending, the demand for our financial and insurance products
    could be adversely affected. Group insurance, in particular, is
    affected by the higher unemployment rate. In addition, we may
    experience an elevated incidence of claims and lapses or
    surrenders of policies. Our policyholders may choose to defer
    paying insurance premiums or stop paying insurance premiums
    altogether. Adverse changes in the economy could affect earnings
    negatively and could have a material adverse effect on our
    business, results of operations and financial condition. The
    recent market turmoil has precipitated, and may continue to
    raise the possibility of, legislative, regulatory and
    governmental actions. We cannot predict whether or when such
    actions may occur, or what impact, if any, such actions could
    have on our business, results of operations and financial
    condition. See    Actions of the
    U.S. Government, Federal Reserve Bank of New York and Other
    Governmental and Regulatory Bodies for the Purpose of
    Stabilizing and Revitalizing the Financial Markets and
    Protecting Investors and Consumers May Not Achieve the Intended
    Effect or Could Adversely Affect MetLife s Competitive
    Position,     Various Aspects of Dodd-Frank
    Could Impact Our Business Operations, Capital Requirements and
    Profitability and Limit Our Growth,     Our
    Insurance, Brokerage and Banking Businesses Are Heavily
    Regulated, and Changes in Regulation May Reduce Our
    Profitability and Limit Our Growth  and
       Competitive Factors May Adversely Affect Our
    Market Share and Profitability. 

Adverse
    Capital and Credit Market Conditions May Significantly Affect
    Our Ability to Meet Liquidity Needs, Access to Capital and Cost
    of Capital   

The capital and credit markets are sometimes subject to periods
    of extreme volatility and disruption. Such volatility and
    disruption could cause liquidity and credit capacity for certain
    issuers to be limited.

We need liquidity to pay our operating expenses, interest on our
    debt and dividends on our capital stock, maintain our securities
    lending activities and replace certain maturing liabilities.
    Without sufficient liquidity, we will be forced to curtail our
    operations, and our business will suffer. The principal sources
    of our liquidity are insurance premiums, annuity considerations,
    deposit funds, and cash flow from our investment portfolio and
    assets, consisting mainly of cash or assets that are readily
    convertible into cash. Sources of liquidity in normal markets
    also include short-term instruments such as funding agreements
    and commercial paper. Sources of capital in normal markets
    include long-term instruments, medium- and long-term debt,
    junior subordinated debt securities, capital securities and
    equity securities.

In the event market or other conditions have an adverse impact
    on our capital and liquidity beyond expectations and our current
    resources do not satisfy our needs, we may have to seek
    additional financing. The availability of additional financing
    will depend on a variety of factors such as market conditions,
    regulatory considerations, the general availability of credit,
    the volume of trading activities, the overall availability of
    credit to the financial services industry, our credit ratings
    and credit capacity, as well as the possibility that customers
    or lenders could develop a negative perception of our long- or
    short-term financial prospects if we incur large investment
    losses or if the level of our business activity decreases due to
    a market downturn. Similarly, our access to funds may be
    impaired if regulatory authorities or rating agencies take
    negative actions against us. Our internal sources of liquidity
    may prove to be insufficient and, in such case, we may not be
    able to successfully obtain additional financing on favorable
    terms, or at all.

Our liquidity requirements may change if, among other things, we
    are required to return significant amounts of cash collateral on
    short notice under securities lending agreements.

Disruptions, uncertainty or volatility in the capital and credit
    markets may also limit our access to capital required to operate
    our business, most significantly our insurance operations. Such
    market conditions may limit our ability to replace, in a timely
    manner, maturing liabilities; satisfy regulatory capital
    requirements (under both insurance and banking laws); and access
    the capital necessary to grow our business. See
     Business   U.S. Regulation  
    Financial Holding Company Regulation  for information
    relating to the possible impact of Basel II and
    Basel III on the Company. As such, we may be forced to
    delay raising capital, issue different types of securities than
    we would otherwise, less effectively deploy such capital, issue
    shorter tenor securities than we prefer, or bear an unattractive
    cost of capital which could decrease our profitability and
    significantly reduce our financial flexibility. Our results of
    operations, financial condition, cash flows and statutory
    capital position could be materially adversely affected by
    disruptions in the financial markets.

29

Table of Contents   

Actions
    of the U.S. Government, Federal Reserve Bank of New York and
    Other Governmental and Regulatory Bodies for the Purpose of
    Stabilizing and Revitalizing the Financial Markets and
    Protecting Investors and Consumers May Not Achieve the Intended
    Effect or Could Adversely Affect MetLife s Competitive
    Position   

In recent years, Congress, the Federal Reserve Bank of New York,
    the FDIC, the U.S. Treasury and other agencies of the
    U.S. federal government took a number of increasingly
    aggressive actions (in addition to continuing a series of
    interest rate reductions that began in the second half of
    2007) intended to provide liquidity to financial
    institutions and markets, to avert a loss of investor confidence
    in particular troubled institutions, to prevent or contain the
    spread of the financial crisis and to spur economic growth. Most
    of these programs have largely run their course or been
    discontinued. More likely to be relevant to MetLife, Inc. is the
    monetary policy implemented by the Federal Reserve Board, as
    well as Dodd-Frank, which will significantly change financial
    regulation in the U.S. in a number of areas that could
    affect MetLife. Given the large number of provisions that must
    be implemented through regulatory action, we cannot predict what
    impact this could have on our business, results of operations
    and financial condition.

It is not certain what effect the enactment of Dodd-Frank will
    have on the financial markets, the availability of credit, asset
    prices and MetLife s operations. See
       Various Aspects of Dodd-Frank Could Impact Our
    Business Operations, Capital Requirements and Profitability and
    Limit Our Growth.  In addition, the U.S. federal
    government (including the FDIC) and private lenders have
    instituted programs to reduce the monthly payment obligations of
    mortgagors
     and/or 
    reduce the principal payable on residential mortgage loans. As a
    result of such programs or of any legislation requiring loan
    modifications, we may need to maintain or increase our
    engagement in similar activities in order to comply with program
    or statutory requirements and to remain competitive. We cannot
    predict whether the funds made available by the
    U.S. federal government and its agencies will be enough to
    continue stabilizing or to further revive the financial markets
    or, if additional amounts are necessary, whether the Federal
    Reserve Board will make funds available, whether Congress will
    be willing to make the necessary appropriations, what the
    public s sentiment would be towards any such
    appropriations, or what additional requirements or conditions
    might be imposed on the use of any such additional funds.

The choices made by the U.S. Treasury, the Federal Reserve
    Board and the FDIC in their distribution of funds under EESA and
    any future asset purchase programs, as well as any decisions
    made regarding the imposition of additional regulation on large
    financial institutions may have, over time, the effect of
    supporting or burdening some aspects of the financial services
    industry more than others. Some of our competitors have
    received, or may in the future receive, benefits under one or
    more of the federal government s programs. This could
    adversely affect our competitive position. See
       Competitive Factors May Adversely Affect Our
    Market Share and Profitability.  See also
       New and Impending Compensation and Corporate
    Governance Regulations Could Hinder or Prevent Us From
    Attracting and Retaining Management and Other Employees with the
    Talent and Experience to Manage and Conduct Our Business
    Effectively  and    Our Insurance, Brokerage
    and Banking Businesses Are Heavily Regulated, and Changes in
    Regulation May Reduce Our Profitability and Limit Our
    Growth. 

Our
    Insurance, Brokerage and Banking Businesses Are Heavily
    Regulated, and Changes in Regulation May Reduce Our
    Profitability and Limit Our Growth   

Our insurance operations are subject to a wide variety of
    insurance and other laws and regulations. See
     Business   U.S. Regulation  
    Insurance Regulation.  State insurance laws regulate most
    aspects of our U.S. insurance businesses, and our insurance
    subsidiaries are regulated by the insurance departments of the
    states in which they are domiciled and the states in which they
    are licensed. Our
     non-U.S. insurance 
    operations are principally regulated by insurance regulatory
    authorities in the jurisdictions in which they are domiciled or
    operate. See  Business   International
    Regulation. 

State laws in the U.S. grant insurance regulatory authorities
    broad administrative powers with respect to, among other things:

licensing companies and agents to transact business;

calculating the value of assets to determine compliance with
    statutory requirements;

mandating certain insurance benefits;

30

Table of Contents   

regulating certain premium rates;

reviewing and approving policy forms;

regulating unfair trade and claims practices, including through
    the imposition of restrictions on marketing and sales practices,
    distribution arrangements and payment of inducements;

regulating advertising;

protecting privacy;

establishing statutory capital and reserve requirements and
    solvency standards;

fixing maximum interest rates on insurance policy loans and
    minimum rates for guaranteed crediting rates on life insurance
    policies and annuity contracts;

approving changes in control of insurance companies;

restricting the payment of dividends and other transactions
    between affiliates; and

regulating the types, amounts and valuation of investments.

State insurance guaranty associations have the right to assess
    insurance companies doing business in their state for funds to
    help pay the obligations of insolvent insurance companies to
    policyholders and claimants. Because the amount and timing of an
    assessment is beyond our control, the liabilities that we have
    currently established for these potential liabilities may not be
    adequate. See  Business  
    U.S. Regulation   Insurance
    Regulation   Guaranty Associations and Similar
    Arrangements. 

State insurance regulators and the NAIC regularly reexamine
    existing laws and regulations applicable to insurance companies
    and their products. Changes in these laws and regulations, or in
    interpretations thereof, are often made for the benefit of the
    consumer at the expense of the insurer and, thus, could have a
    material adverse effect on our financial condition and results
    of operations.

Currently, the U.S. federal government does not directly
    regulate the business of insurance. However,
     Dodd-Frank 
    allows federal regulators to compel state insurance regulators
    to liquidate an insolvent insurer under some circumstances if
    the state regulators have not acted within a specific period. It
    also establishes the Federal Insurance Office which has the
    authority to participate in the negotiations of international
    insurance agreements with foreign regulators for the U.S. The
    Federal Insurance Office also is authorized to collect
    information about the insurance industry and recommend
    prudential standards.

Federal legislation and administrative policies in several areas
    can significantly and adversely affect insurance companies.
    These areas include financial services regulation, securities
    regulation, pension regulation, health care regulation, privacy,
    tort reform legislation and taxation. In addition, various forms
    of direct and indirect federal regulation of insurance have been
    proposed from time to time, including proposals for the
    establishment of an optional federal charter for insurance
    companies. Other aspects of our insurance operations could also
    be affected by Dodd-Frank. For example, Dodd-Frank imposes new
    restrictions on the ability of affiliates of insured depository
    institutions (such as MetLife Bank) to engage in proprietary
    trading or sponsor or invest in hedge funds or private equity
    funds. See    Various Aspects of Dodd-Frank Could
    Impact Our Business Operations, Capital Requirements and
    Profitability and Limit Our Growth. 

As a federally chartered national association, MetLife Bank is
    subject to a wide variety of banking laws, regulations and
    guidelines. Federal banking laws regulate most aspects of the
    business of MetLife Bank, but certain state laws may apply as
    well. MetLife Bank is principally regulated by the OCC, the
    Federal Reserve and the FDIC.

Federal banking laws and regulations address various aspects of
    MetLife Bank s business and operations with respect to,
    among other things:

chartering to carry on business as a bank;

the permissibility of certain activities;

maintaining minimum capital ratios;

31

Table of Contents   

capital management in relation to the bank s assets;

dividend payments;

safety and soundness standards;

loan loss and other related liabilities;

liquidity;

financial reporting and disclosure standards;

counterparty credit concentration;

restrictions on related party and affiliate transactions;

lending limits (and, in addition, Dodd-Frank includes the credit
    exposures arising from securities lending by MetLife Bank within
    lending limits otherwise applicable to loans);

payment of interest;

unfair or deceptive acts or practices;

privacy; and

bank holding company and bank change of control.

Federal and state banking regulators regularly re-examine
    existing laws and regulations applicable to banks and their
    products. Changes in these laws and regulations, or in
    interpretations thereof, are often made for the benefit of the
    consumer at the expense of the bank and, thus, could have a
    material adverse effect on the financial condition and results
    of operations of MetLife Bank.

In addition, Dodd-Frank establishes a new Bureau of Consumer
    Financial Protection that supervises and regulates institutions
    providing certain financial products and services to consumers.
    Although the consumer financial services to which this
    legislation applies exclude insurance business of the kind in
    which we engage, the new Bureau has authority to regulate
    consumer services provided by MetLife Bank and non-insurance
    consumer services provided elsewhere throughout MetLife.
    Dodd-Frank established a statutory standard for Federal
    pre-emption of state consumer financial protection laws, which
    standard will require national banks to comply with many state
    consumer financial protection laws that previously were
    considered preempted by Federal law. As a result, the regulatory
    and compliance burden on MetLife Bank may increase and could
    adversely affect its business and results of operations.
    Dodd-Frank also includes provisions on mortgage lending,
    anti-predatory lending and other regulatory and supervisory
    provisions that could impact the business and operations of
    MetLife Bank.

Dodd-Frank also authorizes the SEC to establish a standard of
    conduct applicable to brokers and dealers when providing
    personalized investment advice to retail and other customers.
    This standard of conduct would be to act in the best interest of
    the customer without regard to the financial or other interest
    of the broker or dealer providing the advice. See
     Business   U.S. Regulation  
    Banking Regulation  and    Changes in
    U.S. Federal and State Securities Laws and Regulations, and
    State Insurance Regulations Regarding Suitability of Annuity
    Product Sales, May Affect Our Operations and Our
    Profitability. 

In December 2010, the Basel Committee on Banking Supervision
    published Basel III for banks and bank holding companies,
    such as MetLife, Inc. Assuming regulators in the U.S. endorse
    and adopt Basel III, it will require banks and bank holding
    companies to hold greater amounts of capital, to comply with
    requirements for short-term liquidity and to reduce reliance on
    short-term funding sources. See  Business  
    U.S. Regulation   Financial Holding Company
    Regulation   Capital  and  Management s
    Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of
    Operations   Industry Trends   Financial and
    Economic Environment.  It is not clear how these new
    requirements will compare to the enhanced prudential standards
    that may apply to us under Dodd-Frank. See
       Various Aspects of Dodd-Frank Could Impact Our
    Business Operations, Capital Requirements and Profitability and
    Limit Our Growth. 

32

Table of Contents   

As a bank holding company, MetLife, Inc. s ability to pay
    dividends may be restricted by the Federal Reserve Bank of
    New York. In addition, the ability of MetLife Bank and
    MetLife, Inc. to pay dividends could be restricted by any
    additional capital requirements that might be imposed as a
    result of the enactment of Dodd-Frank
     and/or  the
    endorsement and adoption by the U.S. of Basel III.

The FDIC has the right to assess FDIC-insured banks for funds to
    help pay the obligations of insolvent banks to depositors.
    Because the amount and timing of an assessment is beyond our
    control, the liabilities that we have currently established for
    these potential liabilities may not be adequate. In addition,
    Dodd-Frank will result in increased assessment for banks with
    assets of $10.0 billion or more, which includes MetLife
    Bank.

Our international operations are subject to regulation in the
    jurisdictions in which they operate, as described further under
     Business   International Regulation.  A
    significant portion of our revenues are generated through
    operations in foreign jurisdictions, including many countries in
    early stages of economic and political development. Our
    international operations may be materially adversely affected by
    foreign authorities and regulators, such as through
    nationalization or expropriation of assets, the imposition of
    limits on foreign ownership, changes in laws or their
    interpretation or application, political instability, dividend
    limitations, price controls, currency exchange controls or other
    restrictions that prevent us from transferring funds from these
    operations out of the countries in which they operate or
    converting local currencies we hold to U.S. dollars or
    other currencies, as well as adverse actions by foreign
    governmental authorities and regulators. This may also impact
    many of our customers and independent sales intermediaries.
    Changes in the regulations that affect their operations also may
    affect our business relationships with them and their ability to
    purchase or distribute our products. Accordingly, these changes
    could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition
    and results of operations.

Our international operations are subject to local laws and
    regulations, and we expect the scope and extent of regulation
    outside of the U.S., as well as regulatory oversight, generally
    to continue to increase. The authority of our international
    operations to conduct business is subject to licensing
    requirements, permits and approvals, and these authorizations
    are subject to modification and revocation. The regulatory
    environment in the countries in which we operate and changes in
    laws could have a material adverse effect on us and our foreign
    operations. See    Our International Operations
    Face Political, Legal, Operational and Other Risks, Including
    Exposure to Local and Regional Economic Conditions, that Could
    Negatively Affect Those Operations or Our Profitability 
    and  Business   International Regulation. 

Furthermore, the increase in our international operations as a
    result of the acquisition of ALICO may also subject us to
    increased supervision by the Federal Reserve Board, since the
    size of a bank holding company s foreign activities is
    taken as an indication of the holding company s complexity.
    It may also have an effect on the manner in which MetLife, Inc.
    is required to calculate its RBC.

Compliance with applicable laws and regulations is time
    consuming and personnel-intensive, and changes in these laws and
    regulations may materially increase our direct and indirect
    compliance and other expenses of doing business, thus having a
    material adverse effect on our financial condition and results
    of operations.

From time to time, regulators raise issues during examinations
    or audits of MetLife, Inc. s regulated subsidiaries that
    could, if determined adversely, have a material impact on us. We
    cannot predict whether or when regulatory actions may be taken
    that could adversely affect our operations. In addition, the
    interpretations of regulations by regulators may change and
    statutes may be enacted with retroactive impact, particularly in
    areas such as accounting or statutory reserve requirements.

We are also subject to other regulations and may in the future
    become subject to additional regulations. See
     Business   U.S. Regulation  and
     Business   International Regulation. 

33

Table of Contents   

Various
    Aspects of Dodd-Frank Could Impact Our Business Operations,
    Capital Requirements and Profitability and Limit Our
    Growth   

On July 21, 2010, President Obama signed Dodd-Frank.
    Various provisions of Dodd-Frank could affect our business
    operations and our profitability and limit our growth. For
    example:

As a large, interconnected bank holding company with assets of
    $50 billion or more, or possibly as an otherwise
    systemically important financial company, MetLife, Inc. will be
    subject to enhanced prudential standards imposed on systemically
    significant financial companies. Enhanced standards will be
    applied to RBC, liquidity, leverage (unless another, similar,
    standard is appropriate), resolution plan and credit exposure
    reporting, concentration limits, and risk management.
    Off-balance sheet activities are required to be accounted for in
    meeting capital requirements. In addition, if it were determined
    that MetLife posed a substantial threat to U.S. financial
    stability, the applicable federal regulators would have the
    right to require it to take one or more other mitigating actions
    to reduce that risk, including limiting its ability to merge
    with or acquire another company, terminating activities,
    restricting its ability to offer financial products or requiring
    it to sell assets or off-balance sheet items to unaffiliated
    entities. Enhanced standards would also permit, but not require,
    regulators to establish requirements with respect to contingent
    capital, enhanced public disclosures and short-term debt limits.
    These standards are described as being more stringent than those
    otherwise imposed on bank holding companies; however, the
    Federal Reserve Board is permitted to apply them on an
     institution-by-institution 
    basis, depending on its determination of the institution s
    riskiness. In addition, under Dodd-Frank, all bank holding
    companies that have elected to be treated as financial holding
    companies, such as MetLife, Inc. will be required to be
     well capitalized  and  well managed  as
    defined by the Federal Reserve Board, on a consolidated basis
    and not just at their depository institution(s), a higher
    standard than was applicable to financial holding companies
    before
     Dodd-Frank. 

MetLife, Inc., as a bank holding company, will have to meet
    minimum leverage ratio and RBC requirements on a consolidated
    basis to be established by the Federal Reserve Board that are
    not less than those applicable to insured depository
    institutions under so-called prompt corrective action
    regulations as in effect on the date of the enactment of
    Dodd-Frank. One consequence of these new rules will ultimately
    be the inability of bank holding companies to include
    trust-preferred securities as part of their Tier 1 capital.
    Because of the phase-in period for these new rules, they should
    have little practical effect on MetLife s ability to treat
    its currently outstanding trust-preferred securities as part of
    its Tier 1 capital, but they do prevent MetLife, Inc. from
    treating the common equity units issued as part of the
    consideration for the Acquisition as Tier I capital, since
    the new rules apply immediately to instruments issued after
    May 19, 2010.

Under the provisions of Dodd-Frank relating to the resolution or
    liquidation of certain types of financial institutions,
    including bank holding companies, if MetLife, Inc. were to
    become insolvent or were in danger of defaulting on its
    obligations, it could be compelled to undergo liquidation with
    the FDIC as receiver. For this new regime to be applicable, a
    number of determinations would have to be made, including that a
    default by the affected company would have serious adverse
    effects on financial stability in the U.S. If the FDIC were to
    be appointed as the receiver for such a company, the liquidation
    of that company would occur under the provisions of the new
    liquidation authority, and not under the Bankruptcy Code. In
    such a liquidation, the holders of such company s debt
    could in certain a respects be treated differently than under
    the Bankruptcy Code. In particular, unsecured creditors and
    shareholders are intended to bear the losses of the company
    being liquidated. The FDIC is authorized to establish rules for
    the priority of creditors  claims and, under certain
    circumstances, to treat similarly situated creditors
    differently. These provisions could apply to some financial
    institutions whose outstanding debt securities we hold in our
    investment portfolios. Dodd-Frank also provides for the
    assessment of bank holding companies with assets of
    $50.0 billion or more, non-bank financial companies
    supervised by the Federal Reserve Bank, and other financial
    companies with assets of $50.0 billion or more to cover the
    costs of liquidating any financial company subject to the new
    liquidation authority. Although it is not possible to assess the
    full impact of the liquidation authority at this time, it could
    affect the funding costs of large bank holding companies or
    financial companies that might be viewed as systemically
    significant. It could also lead to an increase in secured
    financings.

Dodd-Frank also includes a new framework of regulation of the
    OTC derivatives markets which will require clearing of certain
    types of transactions currently traded OTC and could potentially
    impose additional costs,

34

Table of Contents   

including new capital, reporting and margin requirements and
    additional regulation on the Company. Increased margin
    requirements on MetLife, Inc. s part and a smaller universe
    of securities that will qualify as eligible collateral could
    reduce its liquidity and require an increase in its holdings of
    cash and government securities with lower yields causing a
    reduction in income. However, increased margin requirements and
    the expanded ability to transfer trades between MetLife,
    Inc. s counterparties could reduce MetLife, Inc. s
    exposure to its counterparties  default. MetLife, Inc. uses
    derivatives to mitigate a wide range of risks in connection with
    its businesses, including the impact of increased benefit
    exposures from our annuity products that offer guaranteed
    benefits. The derivative clearing requirements of
     Dodd-Frank 
    could increase the cost of our risk mitigation and expose us to
    the risk of a default by a clearinghouse or one of its members.
    In addition, we are subject to the risk that hedging and other
    management procedures prove ineffective in reducing the risks to
    which insurance policies expose us or that unanticipated
    policyholder behavior or mortality, combined with adverse market
    events, produces economic losses beyond the scope of the risk
    management techniques employed. Any such losses could be
    increased by any higher costs of writing derivatives (including
    customized derivatives) that might result from the enactment of
    Dodd-Frank.

Dodd-Frank restricts the ability of insured depository
    institutions and of companies, such as MetLife, Inc., that
    control an insured depository institution and their affiliates,
    to engage in proprietary trading and to sponsor or invest in
    funds (hedge funds and private equity funds) that rely on
    certain exemptions from the Investment Company Act. Dodd-Frank
    provides an exemption for investment activity by a regulated
    insurance company or its affiliate solely for the general
    account of such insurance company if such activity is in
    compliance with the insurance company investments laws of the
    state or jurisdiction in which such company is domiciled and the
    appropriate Federal regulators after consultation with relevant
    insurance commissioners have not jointly determined such laws to
    be insufficient to protect the safety and soundness of the
    institution or the financial stability of the U.S.
    Notwithstanding the foregoing, the appropriate Federal
    regulatory authorities are permitted under the legislation to
    impose, as part of rulemaking, additional capital requirements
    and other restrictions on any exempted activity. Dodd-Frank
    provides for a period of study and rule making during which the
    effects of the statutory language may be clarified. Among other
    considerations, the study is to assess and include
    recommendations so as to appropriately accommodate the business
    of insurance within an insurance company subject to regulation
    in accordance with relevant insurance company investments laws.
    While these provisions of Dodd-Frank are supposed to accommodate
    the business of insurance, until the related study and
    rulemaking are complete, it is unclear whether MetLife, Inc. may
    have to alter any of its future investment activities to comply.

Until various studies are completed and final regulations are
    promulgated pursuant to Dodd-Frank, the full impact of
    Dodd-Frank on the investments and investment activities and
    insurance and annuity products of MetLife, Inc. and its
    subsidiaries remains unclear. For example, besides directly
    limiting our future investment activities, Dodd-Frank could
    potentially negatively impact the market for, the returns from,
    or liquidity in, primary and secondary investments in private
    equity funds and hedge funds that are connected to (either
    through a fund sponsorship or investor relationship) an insured
    depository institution. The number of sponsors of such funds
    going forward may diminish, which may impact our available fund
    investment opportunities. Although Dodd-Frank provides for
    various transition periods for coming into compliance, fund
    sponsors that are subject to Dodd-Frank, and whose funds we have
    invested in, may have to spin off their funds business or reduce
    their ownership stakes in their funds, thereby potentially
    impacting our related investments in such funds. In addition,
    should such funds be required or choose to liquidate or sell
    their underlying assets, the market value and liquidity of such
    assets or the broader related asset classes could negatively be
    affected, including securities and real estate assets that
    MetLife, Inc. and its subsidiaries hold or may plan to sell.
    Secondary sales of fund interests at significant discounts by
    banking institutions and their affiliates, which are not fund
    sponsors but nevertheless are subject to the divestment
    requirements of
     Dodd-Frank, 
    could reduce the returns realized by investors such as MetLife,
    Inc. and its subsidiaries seeking to access liquidity by selling
    their fund interests. In addition, our existing derivatives
    counterparties and the financial institutions subject to
    Dodd-Frank in which we have invested also could be negatively
    impacted by Dodd-Frank. See also    New and
    Impending Compensation and Corporate Governance Regulations
    Could Hinder or Prevent Us From Attracting and Retaining
    Management and Other Employees with the Talent and Experience to
    Manage and Conduct Our Business Effectively. 

35

Table of Contents   

In addition, Dodd-Frank statutorily imposes the requirement that
    MetLife, Inc. serve as a source of strength for MetLife Bank.

The addition of a new regulatory regime over MetLife, Inc. and
    its subsidiaries, the likelihood of additional regulations, and
    the other changes discussed above could require changes to
    MetLife, Inc. s operations. Whether such changes would
    affect our competitiveness in comparison to other institutions
    is uncertain, since it is possible that at least some of our
    competitors, for example insurance holding companies that
    control thrifts, rather than banks, will be similarly affected.
    Competitive effects are possible, however, if MetLife, Inc. were
    required to pay any new or increased assessments and capital
    requirements are imposed, and to the extent any new prudential
    supervisory standards are imposed on MetLife, Inc. but not on
    its competitors. We cannot predict whether other proposals will
    be adopted, or what impact, if any, the adoption of Dodd-Frank
    or other proposals and the resulting studies and regulations
    could have on our business, financial condition or results of
    operations or on our dealings with other financial companies.
    See also    Our Insurance, Brokerage and Banking
    Businesses are Heavily Regulated, and Changes in Regulation May
    Reduce Our Profitability and Limit Our Growth  and
       New and Impending Compensation and Corporate
    Governance Regulations Could Hinder or Prevent Us From
    Attracting and Retaining Management and Other Employees with the
    Talent and Experience to Manage and Conduct Our Business
    Effectively. 

Moreover, Dodd-Frank potentially affects such a wide range of
    the activities and markets in which MetLife, Inc. and its
    subsidiaries engage and participate that it may not be possible
    to anticipate all of the ways in which it could affect us. For
    example, many of our methods for managing risk and exposures are
    based upon the use of observed historical market behavior or
    statistics based on historical models. Historical market
    behavior may be altered by the enactment of Dodd-Frank. As a
    result of this enactment and otherwise, these methods may not
    fully predict future exposures, which could be significantly
    greater than our historical measures indicate.

The
    Resolution of Several Issues Affecting the Financial Services
    Industry Could Have a Negative Impact on Our Reported Results or
    on Our Relations with Current and Potential
    Customers   

We will continue to be subject to legal and regulatory actions
    in the ordinary course of our business, both in the U.S. and
    internationally. This could result in a review of business sold
    in the past under previously acceptable market practices at the
    time. Regulators are increasingly interested in the approach
    that product providers use to select third-party distributors
    and to monitor the appropriateness of sales made by them. In
    some cases, product providers can be held responsible for the
    deficiencies of third-party distributors.

As a result of publicity relating to widespread perceptions of
    industry abuses, there have been numerous regulatory inquiries
    and proposals for legislative and regulatory reforms.

In Asia, where MetLife derives and will continue to derive a
    significant portion of its income, regulatory regimes are
    developing at different speeds, driven by a combination of
    global factors and local considerations. New requirements may be
    introduced that are retrospectively applied to sales made prior
    to their introduction.

We Are
    Exposed to Significant Financial and Capital Markets Risk Which
    May Adversely Affect Our Results of Operations, Financial
    Condition and Liquidity, and May Cause Our Net Investment Income
    to Vary from Period to Period   

We are exposed to significant financial and capital markets
    risk, including changes in interest rates, credit spreads,
    equity prices, real estate markets, foreign currency exchange
    rates, market volatility, the performance of the global economy
    in general, the performance of the specific obligors, including
    governments, included in our portfolio and other factors outside
    our control.

Our exposure to interest rate risk relates primarily to the
    market price and cash flow variability associated with changes
    in interest rates. Changes in interest rates will impact the net
    unrealized gain or loss position of our fixed income investment
    portfolio. If long-term interest rates rise dramatically within
    a six to twelve month time period, certain of our life insurance
    businesses and fixed annuity business may be exposed to
    disintermediation risk. Disintermediation risk refers to the
    risk that our policyholders may surrender their contracts in a
    rising interest rate environment, requiring us to liquidate
    fixed income investments in an unrealized loss position. Due to
    the long-term

36

Table of Contents   

nature of the liabilities associated with certain of our life
    insurance businesses, guaranteed benefits on variable annuities,
    and structured settlements, sustained declines in long-term
    interest rates may subject us to reinvestment risks and
    increased hedging costs. In other situations, declines in
    interest rates may result in increasing the duration of certain
    life insurance liabilities, creating asset-liability duration
    mismatches.

Our investment portfolio also contains interest rate sensitive
    instruments, such as fixed income securities, which may be
    adversely affected by changes in interest rates from
    governmental monetary policies, domestic and international
    economic and political conditions and other factors beyond our
    control. Changes in interest rates will impact both the net
    unrealized gain or loss position of our fixed income portfolio
    and the rates of return we receive on funds invested. Our
    mitigation efforts with respect to interest rate risk are
    primarily focused towards maintaining an investment portfolio
    with diversified maturities that has a weighted average duration
    that is approximately equal to the duration of our estimated
    liability cash flow profile. However, our estimate of the
    liability cash flow profile may be inaccurate and we may be
    forced to liquidate fixed income investments prior to maturity
    at a loss in order to cover the cash flow profile of the
    liability. Although we take measures to manage the economic
    risks of investing in a changing interest rate environment, we
    may not be able to mitigate the interest rate risk of our fixed
    income investments relative to our liabilities. See also
       Changes in Market Interest Rates May
    Significantly Affect Our Profitability. 

Our exposure to credit spreads primarily relates to market price
    volatility and cash flow variability associated with changes in
    credit spreads. A widening of credit spreads will adversely
    impact both the net unrealized gain or loss position of the
    fixed-income investment portfolio, will increase losses
    associated with credit-based non-qualifying derivatives where we
    assume credit exposure, and, if issuer credit spreads increase
    significantly or for an extended period of time, will likely
    result in higher
     other-than-temporary 
    impairments. Credit spread tightening will reduce net investment
    income associated with new purchases of fixed maturity
    securities. In addition, market volatility can make it difficult
    to value certain of our securities if trading becomes less
    frequent. As such, valuations may include assumptions or
    estimates that may have significant period to period changes
    which could have a material adverse effect on our results of
    operations or financial condition. Credit spreads on both
    corporate and structured securities widened significantly during
    2008, resulting in continuing depressed pricing. As a result of
    improved conditions, credit spreads narrowed in 2009 and changed
    to a lesser extent in 2010. If there is a resumption of
    significant volatility in the markets, it could cause changes in
    credit spreads and defaults and a lack of pricing transparency
    which, individually or in tandem, could have a material adverse
    effect on our results of operations, financial condition,
    liquidity or cash flows through realized investment losses,
    impairments, and changes in unrealized loss positions.

Our primary exposure to equity risk relates to the potential for
    lower earnings associated with certain of our insurance
    businesses where fee income is earned based upon the estimated
    fair value of the assets under management. Downturns and
    volatility in equity markets can have a material adverse effect
    on the revenues and investment returns from our savings and
    investment products and services. Because these products and
    services generate fees related primarily to the value of assets
    under management, a decline in the equity markets could reduce
    our revenues from the reduction in the value of the investments
    we manage. The retail variable annuity business in particular is
    highly sensitive to equity markets, and a sustained weakness in
    the equity markets could decrease revenues and earnings in
    variable annuity products. Furthermore, certain of our variable
    annuity products offer guaranteed benefits which increase our
    potential benefit exposure should equity markets decline.
    MetLife, Inc. uses derivatives and reinsurance to mitigate the
    impact of such increased potential benefit exposures. We are
    also exposed to interest rate and equity risk based upon the
    discount rate and expected long-term rate of return assumptions
    associated with our pension and other postretirement benefit
    obligations. Sustained declines in long-term interest rates or
    equity returns likely would have a negative effect on the funded
    status of these plans. Lastly, we invest a portion of our
    investments in public and private equity securities, leveraged
    buy-out funds, hedge funds and other private equity funds and
    the estimated fair value of such investments may be impacted by
    downturns or volatility in equity markets.

Our primary exposure to real estate risk relates to commercial
    and agricultural real estate. Our exposure to commercial and
    agricultural real estate risk stems from various factors. These
    factors include, but are not limited to, market conditions
    including the demand and supply of leasable commercial space,
    creditworthiness of tenants and partners, capital markets
    volatility and the inherent interest rate movement. In addition,
    our real estate joint venture development program is subject to
    risks, including, but not limited to, reduced property sales and
    decreased availability of financing which could adversely impact
    the joint venture developments
     and/or 
    operations. The state of the economy

37

Table of Contents   

and speed of recovery in fundamental and capital market
    conditions in the commercial and agricultural real estate
    sectors will continue to influence the performance of our
    investments in these sectors. These factors and others beyond
    our control could have a material adverse effect on our results
    of operations, financial condition, liquidity or cash flows
    through net investment income, realized investment losses and
    levels of valuation allowances.

Our investment portfolio contains investments in government
    bonds issued by European nations. Recently, the European Union
    member states have experienced above average public debt,
    inflation and unemployment as the global economic downturn has
    developed. A number of member states are significantly impacted
    by the economies of their more influential neighbors, such as
    Germany. In addition, financial troubles of one nation can
    trigger a domino effect on others. In particular, a number of
    large European banks hold significant amounts of sovereign
    financial institution debt of other European nations and could
    experience difficulties as a result of defaults or declines in
    the value of such debt. Our investment portfolio also contains
    investments in revenue bonds issued under the auspices of
    U.S. states and municipalities and a limited amount of
    general obligation bonds of U.S. states and municipalities
    (collectively,  Municipal Bonds ). Recently, certain
    U.S. states and municipalities have faced budget deficits
    and financial difficulties. There can be no assurance that the
    financial difficulties of such U.S. states and
    municipalities would not have an adverse impact on our Municipal
    Bond portfolio.

Our primary foreign currency exchange risks are described under
       Fluctuations in Foreign Currency Exchange
    Rates Could Negatively Affect Our Profitability.  Changes
    in these factors, which are significant risks to us, can affect
    our net investment income in any period, and such changes can be
    substantial.

A portion of our investments are made in leveraged buy-out
    funds, hedge funds and other private equity funds, many of which
    make private equity investments. The amount and timing of net
    investment income from such investment funds tends to be uneven
    as a result of the performance of the underlying investments,
    including private equity investments. The timing of
    distributions from the funds, which depends on particular events
    relating to the underlying investments, as well as the
    funds  schedules for making distributions and their needs
    for cash, can be difficult to predict. As a result, the amount
    of net investment income that we record from these investments
    can vary substantially from quarter to quarter. Recovering
    private equity markets and stabilizing credit and real estate
    markets during 2010 had a positive impact on returns and net
    investment income on private equity funds, hedge funds and real
    estate joint ventures, which are included within other limited
    partnership interests and real estate and real estate joint
    venture portfolios. Although volatility in most global financial
    markets has moderated, if there is a resumption of significant
    volatility, it could adversely impact returns and net investment
    income on these alternative investment classes.

Continuing challenges include continued weakness in the
    U.S. real estate market and increased residential mortgage
    loan and other consumer loan delinquencies, investor anxiety
    over the U.S. and European economies, rating agency
    downgrades of various structured products and financial issuers,
    unresolved issues with structured investment vehicles and
    monoline financial guarantee insurers, deleveraging of financial
    institutions and hedge funds and the continuing recovery in the
    inter-bank market. If there is a resumption of significant
    volatility in the markets, it could cause changes in interest
    rates, declines in equity prices, and the strengthening or
    weakening of foreign currencies against the U.S. dollar
    which, individually or in tandem, could have a material adverse
    effect on our results of operations, financial condition,
    liquidity or cash flows through realized investment losses,
    impairments, increased valuation allowances and changes in
    unrealized gain or loss positions.

Changes
    in Market Interest Rates May Significantly Affect Our
    Profitability   

Some of our products, principally traditional whole life
    insurance, fixed annuities and guaranteed interest contracts,
    expose us to the risk that changes in interest rates will reduce
    our investment margin or  spread,  or the difference
    between the amounts that we are required to pay under the
    contracts in our general account and the rate of return we are
    able to earn on general account investments intended to support
    obligations under the contracts. Our spread is a key component
    of our net income.

As interest rates decrease or remain at low levels, we may be
    forced to reinvest proceeds from investments that have matured
    or have been prepaid or sold at lower yields, reducing our
    investment margin. Moreover, borrowers may prepay or redeem the
    fixed income securities, commercial or agricultural mortgage
    loans and mortgage-backed securities in our investment portfolio
    with greater frequency in order to borrow at lower market rates,
    which exacerbates this risk.

38

Table of Contents   

Lowering interest crediting rates can help offset decreases in
    investment margins on some products. However, our ability to
    lower these rates could be limited by competition or
    contractually guaranteed minimum rates and may not match the
    timing or magnitude of changes in asset yields. As a result, our
    spread could decrease or potentially become negative. Our
    expectation for future spreads is an important component in the
    amortization of DAC and value of business acquired
    ( VOBA ), and significantly lower spreads may cause us
    to accelerate amortization, thereby reducing net income in the
    affected reporting period. In addition, during periods of
    declining interest rates, life insurance and annuity products
    may be relatively more attractive investments to consumers,
    resulting in increased premium payments on products with
    flexible premium features, repayment of policy loans and
    increased persistency, or a higher percentage of insurance
    policies remaining in force from year to year, during a period
    when our new investments carry lower returns. A decline in
    market interest rates could also reduce our return on
    investments that do not support particular policy obligations.
    Accordingly, declining interest rates may materially affect our
    results of operations, financial position and cash flows and
    significantly reduce our profitability. We recognize that a low
    interest rate environment will adversely affect our earnings,
    but we do not believe any such impact will be material in 2011.

The sufficiency of our life insurance statutory reserves in
    Taiwan is highly sensitive to interest rates and other related
    assumptions. This is due to the sustained low interest rate
    environment in Taiwan coupled with long-term interest rate
    guarantees of approximately 6% embedded in the life and health
    contracts sold prior to 2003 and the lack of availability of
    long-duration investments in the Taiwanese capital markets to
    match such long-duration liabilities. The key assumptions
    include current Taiwan government bond yield rates increasing
    approximately 1% from current levels over the next ten years,
    lapse rates, mortality and morbidity levels remaining consistent
    with recent experience, and U.S. dollar-denominated
    investments making up to 35% of total assets backing life
    insurance statutory reserves. Current reserve adequacy analysis
    shows that provisions are adequate; however, adverse changes in
    key assumptions for interest rates, lapse experience and
    mortality and morbidity levels could lead to a need to
    strengthen reserves.

Increases in market interest rates could also negatively affect
    our profitability. In periods of rapidly increasing interest
    rates, we may not be able to replace, in a timely manner, the
    investments in MetLife s general account with higher
    yielding investments needed to fund the higher crediting rates
    necessary to keep interest sensitive products competitive. We,
    therefore, may have to accept a lower spread and, thus, lower
    profitability or face a decline in sales and greater loss of
    existing contracts and related assets. In addition, policy
    loans, surrenders and withdrawals may tend to increase as
    policyholders seek investments with higher perceived returns as
    interest rates rise. This process may result in cash outflows
    requiring that we sell investments at a time when the prices of
    those investments are adversely affected by the increase in
    market interest rates, which may result in realized investment
    losses. Unanticipated withdrawals and terminations may cause us
    to accelerate the amortization of DAC, VOBA and negative VOBA,
    which reduces net income. An increase in market interest rates
    could also have a material adverse effect on the value of our
    investment portfolio, for example, by decreasing the estimated
    fair values of the fixed income securities that comprise a
    substantial portion of our investment portfolio. Lastly, an
    increase in interest rates could result in decreased fee income
    associated with a decline in the value of variable annuity
    account balances invested in fixed income funds.

Some
    of Our Investments Are Relatively Illiquid and Are in Asset
    Classes That Have Been Experiencing Significant Market
    Valuation Fluctuations   

We hold certain investments that may lack liquidity, such as
    privately-placed fixed maturity securities; mortgage loans;
    policy loans and leveraged leases; equity real estate, including
    real estate joint ventures and funds; and other limited
    partnership interests. These asset classes represented 26.6% of
    the carrying value of our total cash and investments at
    December 31, 2010. In recent years, even some of our very
    high quality investments experienced reduced liquidity during
    periods of market volatility or disruption. If we require
    significant amounts of cash on short notice in excess of normal
    cash requirements or are required to post or return cash
    collateral in connection with our investment portfolio,
    derivatives transactions or securities lending program, we may
    have difficulty selling these investments in a timely manner, be
    forced to sell them for less than we otherwise would have been
    able to realize, or both. The reported value of our relatively
    illiquid types of investments, our investments in the asset
    classes described above and, at times, our high quality,
    generally liquid asset classes, do not necessarily reflect the
    lowest current market price for the asset. If we were forced to
    sell certain of our investments in the global market, there can
    be no assurance that we will be able to sell them for the prices
    at which we have recorded them and we could be forced to sell
    them at significantly lower prices.

39

Table of Contents   

Our
    Participation in a Securities Lending Program Subjects Us to
    Potential Liquidity and Other Risks   

We participate in a securities lending program whereby blocks of
    securities, which are included in fixed maturity securities and
    short-term investments, are loaned to third parties, primarily
    brokerage firms and commercial banks. We generally obtain
    collateral in an amount equal to 102% of the estimated fair
    value of the loaned securities, which is obtained at the
    inception of a loan and maintained at a level greater than or
    equal to 100% for the duration of the loan. Returns of loaned
    securities by the third parties would require us to return the
    collateral associated with such loaned securities. In addition,
    in some cases, the maturity of the securities held as invested
    collateral (i.e., securities that we have purchased with cash
    collateral received from the third parties) may exceed the term
    of the related securities on loan and the estimated fair value
    may fall below the amount of cash received as collateral and
    invested. If we are required to return significant amounts of
    cash collateral on short notice and we are forced to sell
    securities to meet the return obligation, we may have difficulty
    selling such collateral that is invested in securities in a
    timely manner, be forced to sell securities in a volatile or
    illiquid market for less than we otherwise would have been able
    to realize under normal market conditions, or both. In addition,
    under stressful capital market and economic conditions,
    liquidity broadly deteriorates, which may further restrict our
    ability to sell securities. If we decrease the amount of our
    securities lending activities over time, the amount of net
    investment income generated by these activities will also likely
    decline. See  Management s Discussion and Analysis of
    Financial Condition and Results of Operations  
    Investments   Securities Lending. 

Our
    Requirements to Pledge Collateral or Make Payments Related to
    Declines in Estimated Fair Value of Specified Assets May
    Adversely Affect Our Liquidity and Expose Us to Counterparty
    Credit Risk   

Some of our transactions with financial and other institutions
    specify the circumstances under which the parties are required
    to pledge collateral related to any decline in the estimated
    fair value of the specified assets. In addition, under the terms
    of some of our transactions, we may be required to make payments
    to our counterparties related to any decline in the estimated
    fair value of the specified assets. The amount of collateral we
    may be required to pledge and the payments we may be required to
    make under these agreements may increase under certain
    circumstances, which could adversely affect our liquidity. See
     Management s Discussion and Analysis of Financial
    Condition and Results of Operations   Liquidity and
    Capital Resources   The Company   Liquidity
    and Capital Sources   Collateral Financing
    Arrangements  and Note 12 of the Notes to the
    Consolidated Financial Statements.

Gross
    Unrealized Losses on Fixed Maturity and Equity Securities May Be
    Realized or Result in Future Impairments, Resulting in a
    Reduction in Our Net Income   

Fixed maturity and equity securities classified as
     available-for-sale 
    are reported at their estimated fair value. Unrealized gains or
    losses on
     available-for-sale 
    securities are recognized as a component of other comprehensive
    income (loss) and are, therefore, excluded from net income. Our
    gross unrealized losses on fixed maturity and equity securities
    available for sale at December 31, 2010 were
    $6.9 billion. The portion of the $6.9 billion of gross
    unrealized losses for fixed maturity and equity securities where
    the estimated fair value has declined and remained below
    amortized cost or cost by 20% or more for six months or greater
    was $2.1 billion at December 31, 2010. The accumulated
    change in estimated fair value of these
     available-for-sale 
    securities is recognized in net income when the gain or loss is
    realized upon the sale of the security or in the event that the
    decline in estimated fair value is determined to be
     other-than-temporary 
    and an impairment charge to earnings is taken. Realized losses
    or impairments may have a material adverse effect on our net
    income in a particular quarterly or annual period.

The
    Determination of the Amount of Allowances and Impairments Taken
    on Our Investments is Highly Subjective and Could Materially
    Impact Our Results of Operations or Financial
    Position   

The determination of the amount of allowances and impairments
    varies by investment type and is based upon our periodic
    evaluation and assessment of known and inherent risks associated
    with the respective asset class. Such evaluations and
    assessments are revised as conditions change and new information
    becomes available. We update our evaluations regularly and
    reflect changes in allowances and impairments in net investment
    losses as such evaluations are revised. Additional impairments
    may need to be taken or allowances provided for in the future.
    Furthermore, historical trends may not be indicative of future
    impairments or allowances.

40

Table of Contents   

For example, the cost of our fixed maturity and equity
    securities is adjusted for impairments deemed to be
     other-than-temporary. 
    The assessment of whether impairments have occurred is based on
    our
     case-by-case 
    evaluation of the underlying reasons for the decline in
    estimated fair value. The review of our fixed maturity and
    equity securities for impairments includes an analysis of the
    total gross unrealized losses by three categories of securities:
    (i) securities where the estimated fair value has declined
    and remained below cost or amortized cost by less than 20%;
    (ii) securities where the estimated fair value has declined
    and remained below cost or amortized cost by 20% or more for
    less than six months; and (iii) securities where the
    estimated fair value has declined and remained below cost or
    amortized cost by 20% or more for six months or greater.

Additionally, we consider a wide range of factors about the
    security issuer and use our best judgment in evaluating the
    cause of the decline in the estimated fair value of the security
    and in assessing the prospects for near term recovery. Inherent
    in our evaluation of the security are assumptions and estimates
    about the operations of the issuer and its future earnings
    potential. Considerations in the impairment evaluation process
    include, but are not limited to: (i) the length of time and
    the extent to which the estimated fair value has been below cost
    or amortized cost; (ii) the potential for impairments of
    securities when the issuer is experiencing significant financial
    difficulties; (iii) the potential for impairments in an
    entire industry sector or
     sub-sector; 
    (iv) the potential for impairments in certain economically
    depressed geographic locations; (v) the potential for
    impairments of securities where the issuer, series of issuers or
    industry has suffered a catastrophic type of loss or has
    exhausted natural resources; (vi) with respect to fixed
    maturity securities, whether we have the intent to sell or will
    more likely than not be required to sell a particular security
    before recovery of the decline in estimated fair value below
    amortized cost; (vii) with respect to equity securities,
    whether we have the ability and intent to hold a particular
    security for a period of time sufficient to allow for the
    recovery of its estimated fair value to an amount at least equal
    to its cost; (viii) unfavorable changes in forecasted cash
    flows on mortgage-backed and asset-backed securities
    ( ABS  and (ix) other subjective factors,
    including concentrations and information obtained from
    regulators and rating agencies.

Defaults
    on Our Mortgage Loans and Volatility in Performance May
    Adversely Affect Our Profitability   

Our mortgage loans face default risk and are principally
    collateralized by commercial, agricultural and residential
    properties. We establish valuation allowances for estimated
    impairments at the balance sheet date. Such valuation allowances
    are based on the excess carrying value of the loan over the
    present value of expected future cash flows discounted at the
    loan s original effective interest rate, the estimated fair
    value of the loan s collateral if the loan is in the
    process of foreclosure or otherwise collateral dependent, or the
    loan s observable market price. We also establish valuation
    allowances for loan losses for pools of loans with similar risk
    characteristics, such as property types, or loans having similar
     loan-to-value 
    ratios and debt service coverage ratios, when based on past
    experience, it is probable that a credit event has occurred and
    the amount of the loss can be reasonably estimated. These
    valuation allowances are based on loan risk characteristics,
    historical default rates and loss severities, real estate market
    fundamentals and outlook as well as other relevant factors. At
    December 31, 2010, mortgage loans that were either
    delinquent or in the process of foreclosure totaled less than
    0.6% of our mortgage loan investments. The performance of our
    mortgage loan investments, however, may fluctuate in the future.
    In addition, substantially all of our mortgage loans
     held-for-investment 
    have balloon payment maturities. An increase in the default rate
    of our mortgage loan investments could have a material adverse
    effect on our business, results of operations and financial
    condition through realized investment losses or increases in our
    valuation allowances.

Further, any geographic or sector concentration of our mortgage
    loans may have adverse effects on our investment portfolios and
    consequently on our results of operations or financial
    condition. While we seek to mitigate this risk by having a
    broadly diversified portfolio, events or developments that have
    a negative effect on any particular geographic region or sector
    may have a greater adverse effect on the investment portfolios
    to the extent that the portfolios are concentrated. Moreover,
    our ability to sell assets relating to such particular groups of
    related assets may be limited if other market participants are
    seeking to sell at the same time. In addition, legislative
    proposals that would allow or require modifications to the terms
    of mortgage loans could be enacted. We cannot predict whether
    these proposals will be adopted, or what impact, if any, such
    proposals or, if enacted, such laws, could have on our business
    or investments. See  Management s Discussion and
    Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of
    Operations   Investments   Mortgage
    Loans. 

41

Table of Contents   

The
    Impairment of Other Financial Institutions Could Adversely
    Affect Us   

We have exposure to many different industries and
    counterparties, and routinely execute transactions with
    counterparties in the financial services industry, including
    brokers and dealers, commercial banks, investment banks, hedge
    funds and other investment funds and other institutions. Many of
    these transactions expose us to credit risk in the event of
    default of our counterparty. In addition, with respect to
    secured transactions, our credit risk may be exacerbated when
    the collateral held by us cannot be realized or is liquidated at
    prices not sufficient to recover the full amount of the loan or
    derivative exposure due to us. We also have exposure to these
    financial institutions in the form of unsecured debt
    instruments, non-redeemable and redeemable preferred securities,
    derivative transactions, joint venture, hedge fund and equity
    investments. Further, potential action by governments and
    regulatory bodies in response to the financial crisis affecting
    the global banking system and financial markets, such as
    investment, nationalization, conservatorship, receivership and
    other intervention, whether under existing legal authority or
    any new authority that may be created, could negatively impact
    these instruments, securities, transactions and investments.
    There can be no assurance that any such losses or impairments to
    the carrying value of these investments would not materially and
    adversely affect our business and results of operations.

We
    Face Unforeseen Liabilities, Asset Impairments or Rating Actions
    Arising from Acquisitions, Including ALICO, and Dispositions of
    Businesses or Difficulties Integrating and Managing Growth of
    Such Businesses   

We have engaged in dispositions and acquisitions of businesses
    in the past, and expect to continue to do so in the future.
    Acquisition and disposition activity exposes us to a number of
    risks.

There could be unforeseen liabilities or asset impairments,
    including goodwill impairments, that arise in connection with
    the businesses that we may sell or the businesses that we may
    acquire in the future.

In addition, there may be liabilities or asset impairments that
    we fail, or are unable, to discover in the course of performing
    due diligence investigations on each business that we have
    acquired or may acquire. Furthermore, even for obligations and
    liabilities that we do discover during the due diligence
    process, neither the valuation adjustment nor the contractual
    protections we negotiate may be sufficient to fully protect us
    from losses. For example, in connection with the acquisition of
    ALICO, we may be exposed to obligations and liabilities of ALICO
    that are not adequately covered, in amount, scope or duration,
    by the indemnification provisions in the Stock Purchase
    Agreement or reflected or reserved for in ALICO s
    historical financial statements. Although we have rights to
    indemnification from ALICO Holdings under the Stock Purchase
    Agreement for certain losses, our rights are limited by survival
    periods for bringing claims and monetary limitations on the
    amount we may recover, and we cannot be certain that
    indemnification will be, among other things, collectible or
    sufficient in amount, scope or duration to fully offset any loss
    we may suffer.

Furthermore, the use of our own funds as consideration in any
    acquisition would consume capital resources that would no longer
    be available for other corporate purposes. We also may not be
    able to raise sufficient funds to consummate an acquisition if,
    for example, we are unable to sell our securities or close
    related bridge credit facilities. Moreover, as a result of
    uncertainty and risks associated with potential acquisitions and
    dispositions of businesses, rating agencies may take certain
    actions with respect to the ratings assigned to MetLife, Inc.
     and/or  its
    subsidiaries.

Our ability to achieve certain benefits we anticipate from any
    acquisitions of businesses will depend in large part upon our
    ability to successfully integrate such businesses in an
    efficient and effective manner. We may not be able to integrate
    such businesses smoothly or successfully, and the process may
    take longer than expected. The integration of operations and
    differences in operational culture may require the dedication of
    significant management resources, which may distract
    management s attention from
     day-to-day 
    business. If we are unable to successfully integrate the
    operations of such acquired businesses, we may be unable to
    realize the benefits we expect to achieve as a result of such
    acquisitions and our business and results of operations may be
    less than expected.

42

Table of Contents   

The success with which we are able to integrate acquired
    operations, will depend on our ability to manage a variety of
    issues, including the following:

Loss of key personnel or higher than expected employee attrition
    rates could adversely affect the performance of the acquired
    business and our ability to integrate it successfully.

Customers of the acquired business may reduce, delay or defer
    decisions concerning their use of its products and services as a
    result of the acquisition or uncertainty related to the
    consummation of the acquisition, including, for example,
    potential unfamiliarity with the MetLife brand in regions where
    MetLife did not have a market presence prior to the acquisition.

If the acquired business relies upon independent distributors to
    distribute its products, these distributors may not continue to
    generate the same volume of business for MetLife after the
    acquisition. Independent distributors may reexamine the scope of
    their relationship with the acquired business or MetLife as a
    result of the acquisition and decide to curtail or eliminate
    distribution of our products.

Integrating acquired operations with our existing operations may
    require us to coordinate geographically separated organizations,
    address possible differences in corporate culture and management
    philosophies, merge financial processes and risk and compliance
    procedures, combine separate information technology platforms
    and integrate operations that were previously closely tied to
    the former parent of the acquired business or other service
    providers.

In cases where we or an acquired business operates in certain
    markets through joint ventures, the acquisition may affect the
    continued success and prospects of the joint venture. Our
    ability to exercise management control or influence over these
    joint venture operations and our investment in them will depend
    on the continued cooperation between the joint venture
    participants and on the terms of the joint venture agreements,
    which allocate control among the joint venture participants. We
    may face financial or other exposure in the event that any of
    these joint venture partners fail to meet their obligations
    under the joint venture, encounter financial difficulty or elect
    to alter, modify or terminate the relationship.

We may incur significant costs in connection with any
    acquisition and the related integration. The costs and
    liabilities actually incurred in connection with an acquisition
    and subsequent integration process may exceed those anticipated.

All of these challenges are present in our integration of ALICO,
    which we expect to extend over a substantial period.

The prospects of our business also may be materially and
    adversely affected if we are not able to manage the growth of
    any acquired business successfully. For example, the life
    insurance markets in many of the international markets in which
    ALICO operates have experienced significant growth in recent
    years. Management of ALICO s growth to date has required
    significant management and operational resources and is likely
    to continue to do so. Future growth of our combined business
    will require, among other things, the continued development of
    adequate underwriting and claim handling capabilities and
    skills, sufficient capital base, increased marketing and sales
    activities, and the hiring and training of new personnel.

There can be no assurance that we will be successful in managing
    future growth of any acquired business, including ALICO. In
    particular, there may be difficulties in hiring and training
    sufficient numbers of customer service personnel and agents to
    keep pace with any future growth in the number of customers in
    our developing or developed markets. In addition, we may
    experience difficulties in upgrading, developing and expanding
    information technology systems quickly enough to accommodate any
    future growth. If we are unable to manage future growth, our
    prospects may be materially and adversely affected.

There
    Can Be No Assurance That the Closing Agreement American Life
    Entered Into With the IRS Will Achieve Its Intended Effect, or
    That American Life Will Be Able to Comply with the Related
    Agreed Upon Plan   

On March 4, 2010, American Life entered into a closing
    agreement with the Commissioner of the IRS with respect to a
    U.S. withholding tax issue arising from payments by foreign
    branches of a life insurance company

43

Table of Contents   

incorporated under U.S. law. IRS Revenue Ruling
     2004-75, 
    effective January 1, 2005, requires foreign branches of
    U.S. life insurance companies in certain circumstances to
    withhold U.S. income taxes on payments of taxable income
    made with respect to certain insurance and annuity products paid
    to customers resident in a foreign country. The closing
    agreement provides transitional relief under
    Section 7805(b) of the Code to American Life, such that
    American Life s foreign branches will not be required to
    withhold U.S. income tax on the income portion of payments
    made pursuant to American Life s life insurance and annuity
    contracts ( Covered Payments ) under IRS Revenue
    Ruling
     2004-75  for
    any tax periods beginning on January 1, 2005 and ending on
    December 31, 2013 (the  Deferral Period ). In
    accordance with the closing agreement, American Life submitted a
    plan to the IRS indicating the steps American Life will take (on
    a country by country basis) to ensure that no substantial amount
    of U.S. withholding tax will arise from Covered Payments
    made by American Life s foreign branches to foreign
    customers after the Deferral Period. In addition, the closing
    agreement requires that such plan be updated in quarterly
    filings with the IRS. The closing agreement is final and binding
    upon American Life and the IRS;  provided ,  however ,
    that the agreement can be reopened in the event of malfeasance,
    fraud or a misrepresentation of a material fact, and is subject
    to change of law risk that occurs after the effective date of
    the closing agreement (with certain exceptions). In addition,
    the closing agreement provides that no legislative amendment to
    Section 861(a)(1)(A) of the Code shall shorten the Deferral
    Period, regardless of when such amendment is enacted. The plan
    American Life delivered to the IRS involves the transfer of
    businesses from certain of the foreign branches of American Life
    to one or more existing or newly-formed foreign affiliates of
    American Life; however, the plan is subject to change pursuant
    to the quarterly updates that American Life will provide to the
    IRS. An estimate of the costs to comply with the plan has been
    recorded in the financial statements. Also the achievement of
    the plan presented to the IRS within the required time frame of
    December 31, 2013 is contingent upon regulatory approvals
    and other requirements. Failure to achieve the plan in a timely
    manner could cause American Life to be required to withhold
    U.S. income taxes on the taxable portion of payments made
    by American Life s foreign branches after December 31,
    2013 to customers resident in a foreign country, which could put
    American Life at a competitive disadvantage with its competitors
    that sell similar products through foreign entities and could
    have a material adverse effect on American Life s future
    revenues or expenses or both.

There
    Can Be No Assurance That Any Incremental Tax Benefit Will Result
    From the Currently Planned Elections Under Section 338 of
    the Code   

MetLife, Inc. currently plans to make Section 338 Elections
    with respect to ALICO and certain of its subsidiaries, and
    MetLife, Inc. believes that ALICO and such subsidiaries should
    have additional amortizable basis in their assets for
    U.S. tax purposes as a result of such elections. No
    assurance can be given, however, as to the incremental tax
    benefit, if any, that will result from any such elections,
    if made.

The
    Issuance of Certain Equity Securities to ALICO Holdings in
    Connection with the Acquisition Will Have a Dilutive Impact on
    MetLife, Inc. s Stockholders   

As part of the consideration paid to ALICO Holdings pursuant to
    the terms of the Stock Purchase Agreement, MetLife, Inc. issued
    to ALICO Holdings (A) 78,239,712 shares of its common
    stock, (B) 6,857,000 shares of the Series B
    Contingent Convertible Junior Participating Non-Cumulative
    Perpetual Preferred Stock (the  Convertible Preferred
    Stock ), which will be convertible into approximately
    68,570,000 shares of MetLife, Inc. s common stock
    (subject to anti-dilution adjustments) upon a favorable vote of
    MetLife, Inc. s common stockholders, and
    (C) $3.0 billion aggregate stated amount of MetLife,
    Inc. s common equity units, which initially consist of
    (x) purchase contracts obligating the holder to purchase a
    variable number of shares of MetLife, Inc. s common stock
    on each of three specified future settlement dates
    (approximately two, three and four years after the closing of
    the Acquisition, subject to deferral under certain
    circumstances) for a fixed amount per purchase contract (an
    aggregate of $1.0 billion on each settlement date) (the
     Stock Purchase Contracts ) and (y) an interest
    in each of three series of debt securities of MetLife, Inc. The
    aggregate amount of MetLife, Inc. s common stock expected
    to be issued to ALICO Holdings in connection with the
    Acquisition (including shares of common stock issuable upon
    conversion of the Convertible Preferred Stock and shares of
    common stock issuable upon settlement of the Stock Purchase
    Contracts) is expected to be approximately 214,600,000 to
    231,500,000 shares.

44

Table of Contents   

As a result of the issuance of these securities, more shares of
    common stock will be outstanding and each existing stockholder
    will own a smaller percentage of our common stock then
    outstanding.

Subject
    to Certain Limitations, ALICO Holdings Will Be Able to Sell
    MetLife, Inc. s Equity Securities at Any Time From and
    After the Date 270 Days After the Closing of the Acquisition,
    Which Could Cause MetLife, Inc. s Stock Price to
    Decrease   

ALICO Holdings agreed in the Investor Rights Agreement entered
    into in connection with the Acquisition, not to transfer any of
    MetLife, Inc. s securities received pursuant to the terms
    of the Stock Purchase Agreement, at any time up to the date
    270 days after the closing of the Acquisition, without the
    consent of MetLife, Inc. However, from and after such date,
    ALICO Holdings will be able to transfer up to half of such
    equity securities, and from and after the first anniversary of
    the closing of the Acquisition, ALICO Holdings will be able to
    transfer all of such securities, subject in each case to certain
    limited volume and timing restrictions set forth in the Investor
    Rights Agreement. Moreover, ALICO Holdings will agree to use
    commercially reasonable efforts to transfer, and it will cause
    its affiliates to so transfer, all of MetLife, Inc. s
    securities received in connection with the Acquisition prior to
    the later of (i) the fifth anniversary of the closing of
    the Acquisition, and (ii) the first anniversary of the
    third stock purchase date under the Stock Purchase Contracts.
    Subject to certain conditions, we have agreed to register the
    resale of MetLife, Inc. s equity and other securities to be
    issued to ALICO Holdings under the Securities Act. The sale or
    transfer of a substantial number of these securities within a
    short period of time could cause MetLife, Inc. s stock
    price to decrease, make it more difficult for us to raise funds
    through future offerings of MetLife, Inc. s common stock or
    acquire other businesses using MetLife, Inc. s common stock
    as consideration.

If
    MetLife, Inc. s Stockholders Do Not Vote to Approve the
    Conversion of the Convertible Preferred Stock Into Common Stock,
    MetLife, Inc. Will Be Required to Pay Approximately $300 Million
    to ALICO Holdings   

ALICO Holdings received shares of the Convertible Preferred
    Stock upon completion of the Acquisition. Each share of
    Convertible Preferred Stock will convert into 10 shares of
    MetLife, Inc. s common stock (subject to anti-dilution
    adjustments) if conversion is approved by MetLife, Inc. s
    common stockholders. If we fail to obtain such approval prior to
    the first anniversary of the closing of the Acquisition,
    November 1, 2011, MetLife, Inc. will be required to pay
    approximately $300 million to ALICO Holdings, assuming no
    purchase price adjustments, and, upon request, register the
    Convertible Preferred Stock for sale by ALICO Holdings in a
    public offering and list the Convertible Preferred Stock on the
    NYSE.

Fluctuations
    in Foreign Currency Exchange Rates Could Negatively Affect Our
    Profitability   

We are exposed to risks associated with fluctuations in foreign
    currency exchange rates against the U.S. dollar resulting
    from our holdings of
     non-U.S. dollar 
    denominated investments, investments in foreign subsidiaries and
    net income from foreign operations and issuance of
     non-U.S. dollar 
    denominated instruments, including guaranteed interest contracts
    and funding agreements. These risks relate to potential
    decreases in estimated fair value and income resulting from a
    strengthening or weakening in foreign exchange rates versus the
    U.S. dollar. In general, the weakening of foreign
    currencies versus the U.S. dollar will adversely affect the
    estimated fair value of our
     non-U.S. dollar 
    denominated investments, our investments in foreign
    subsidiaries, and our net income from foreign operations.
    Although we use foreign currency swaps and forward contracts to
    mitigate foreign currency exchange rate risk, we cannot provide
    assurance that these methods will be effective or that our
    counterparties will perform their obligations. See
     Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market
    Risk. 

From time to time, various emerging market countries have
    experienced severe economic and financial disruptions, including
    significant devaluations of their currencies. Our exposure to
    foreign exchange rate risk is exacerbated by our investments in
    certain emerging markets.

Historically, we have matched substantially all of our foreign
    currency liabilities in our foreign subsidiaries with
    investments denominated in their respective foreign currency,
    which limits the effect of currency exchange rate fluctuation on
    local operating results; however, fluctuations in such rates
    affect the translation of these results into our
    U.S. dollar basis consolidated financial statements.
    Although we take certain actions to address this risk, foreign

45

Table of Contents   

currency exchange rate fluctuation could materially adversely
    affect our reported results due to unhedged positions or the
    failure of hedges to effectively offset the impact of the
    foreign currency exchange rate fluctuation. See
     Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market
    Risk. 

The Acquisition has increased our exposure to risks associated
    with fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates against the
    U.S. dollar and increased our exposure to emerging markets.
    Fluctuations in the yen/ U.S. dollar exchange rate can have
    a significant effect on our reported financial position and
    results of operations because ALICO has substantial operations
    in Japan and a significant portion of its premiums and
    investment income are received in yen. Claims and expenses are
    also paid in yen and ALICO primarily purchases yen-denominated
    assets to support yen-denominated policy liabilities. These and
    other yen-denominated financial statement items are, however,
    translated into U.S. dollars for financial reporting
    purposes. Accordingly, fluctuations in the yen/U.S. dollar
    exchange rate can have a significant effect on our reported
    financial position and results of operations.

Due to our significant international operations, during periods
    when any foreign currency in which we derive our revenues (such
    as the Japanese yen) weakens, translating amounts expressed in
    that currency into U.S. dollars causes fewer
    U.S. dollars to be reported. When the relevant foreign
    currency strengthens, translating such currency into
    U.S. dollars causes more U.S. dollars to be reported.
    Between September 30, 2010 and December 31, 2010, the
    Japanese yen has strengthened against the U.S. dollar,
    which fluctuated from a low point of  80.40 to the
    U.S. dollar on October 29, 2010 to a high point of
     84.26 to the U.S. dollar on November 29, 2010,
    which has been somewhat offset by the weakening of the euro,
    which fluctuated from a high point of 0.7702 euro to the
    U.S. dollar on November 30, 2010, to 0.7039 euro to
    the U.S. dollar on November 4, 2010. Any unrealized
    foreign currency translation adjustments are reported in
    accumulated other comprehensive income (loss). The weakening of
    a foreign currency relative to the U.S. dollar will
    generally adversely affect the value of investments in
    U.S. dollar terms and reduce the level of reserves
    denominated in that currency.

Our
    International Operations Face Political, Legal, Operational and
    Other Risks, Including Exposure to Local and Regional Economic
    Conditions, That Could Negatively Affect Those Operations or Our
    Profitability   

Our international operations face political, legal, operational
    and other risks that we do not face in our domestic operations.
    We face the risk of discriminatory regulation, nationalization
    or expropriation of assets, price controls and exchange controls
    or other restrictions that prevent us from transferring funds
    from these operations out of the countries in which they operate
    or converting local currencies we hold into U.S. dollars or
    other currencies. Some of our foreign insurance operations are,
    and are likely to continue to be, in emerging markets where
    these risks are heightened. See  Quantitative and
    Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk.  In addition, we
    rely on local sales forces in these countries and may encounter
    labor problems resulting from workers  associations and
    trade unions in some countries. In several countries, including
    Japan, China and India, we operate with local business partners
    with the resulting risk of managing partner relationships to the
    business objectives. If our business model is not successful in
    a particular country, we may lose all or most of our investment
    in building and training the sales force in that country. See
     Management s Discussion and Analysis of Financial
    Condition and Results of Operations   Executive
    Summary  and Note 2 of the Notes to the Consolidated
    Financial Statements.

We are expanding our international operations in certain markets
    where we operate and in selected new markets. This may require
    considerable management time, as well as
     start-up 
    expenses for market development before any significant revenues
    and earnings are generated. Operations in new foreign markets
    may achieve low margins or may be unprofitable, and expansion in
    existing markets may be affected by local economic and market
    conditions. Therefore, as we expand internationally, we may not
    achieve expected operating margins and our results of operations
    may be negatively impacted.

In addition, in recent years, the operating environment in
    Argentina has been very challenging. In Argentina, we were
    formerly principally engaged in the pension business. In
    December 2008, the Argentine government nationalized private
    pensions and seized the pension funds  investments,
    eliminating the private pensions business in Argentina. As a
    result, we have experienced and will continue to experience
    reductions in the operation s revenues and cash flows. The
    Argentine government now controls all assets which previously
    were managed by our

46

Table of Contents   

Argentine pension operations. Further governmental or legal
    actions related to our operations in Argentina could negatively
    impact our operations in Argentina and result in future losses.

We have market presence in over 60 different countries and
    increased exposure to risks posed by local and regional economic
    conditions. Europe has recently experienced a deep recession and
    countries such as Italy, Spain, Portugal and, in particular,
    Greece and Ireland, have been particularly affected by the
    recession, resulting in increased national debts and depressed
    economic activity. We have significant operations and
    investments in these countries which could be adversely affected
    by economic developments such as higher taxes, growing
    inflation, decreasing government spending, rising unemployment
    and currency instability.

In addition to fluctuations in the yen/U.S. dollar exchange
    rate discussed above, we face increased exposure to the Japanese
    markets as a result of ALICO s considerable presence there.
    Deterioration in Japan s economic recovery could have an
    adverse effect on our results of operations and financial
    condition.

We also have operations in the Middle East where the legal and
    political systems and regulatory frameworks are subject to
    instability and disruptions. Lack of legal certainty and
    stability in the region exposes our operations to increased risk
    of disruption and to adverse or unpredictable actions by
    regulators and may make it more difficult for us to enforce our
    contracts, which may negatively impact our business in this
    region. See also    Changes in Market Interest
    Rates May Significantly Affect Our Profitability  regarding
    the impact of low interest rates on our Taiwanese operations.

As a
    Holding Company, MetLife, Inc. Depends on the Ability of Its
    Subsidiaries to Transfer Funds to It to Meet Its Obligations and
    Pay Dividends   

MetLife, Inc. is a holding company for its insurance and
    financial subsidiaries and does not have any significant
    operations of its own. Dividends from its subsidiaries and
    permitted payments to it under its tax sharing arrangements with
    its subsidiaries are its principal sources of cash to meet its
    obligations and to pay preferred and common stock dividends. If
    the cash MetLife, Inc. receives from its subsidiaries is
    insufficient for it to fund its debt service and other holding
    company obligations, MetLife, Inc. may be required to raise cash
    through the incurrence of debt, the issuance of additional
    equity or the sale of assets.

The payment of dividends and other distributions to MetLife,
    Inc. by its insurance subsidiaries is regulated by insurance
    laws and regulations. In general, dividends in excess of
    prescribed limits require insurance regulatory approval. In
    addition, insurance regulators may prohibit the payment of
    dividends or other payments by its insurance subsidiaries to
    MetLife, Inc. if they determine that the payment could be
    adverse to our policyholders or contractholders. The payment of
    dividends and other distributions by insurance companies is also
    influenced by business conditions and rating agency
    considerations. See  Business  
    U.S. Regulation   Insurance Regulation  and
     Management s Discussion and Analysis of Financial
    Condition and Results of Operations   Liquidity and
    Capital Resources   The Holding Company  
    Liquidity and Capital Sources   Dividends from
    Subsidiaries.  The ability of MetLife Bank to pay dividends
    is also subject to regulation by the OCC.

Any payment of interest, dividends, distributions, loans or
    advances by our foreign subsidiaries and branches to MetLife,
    Inc. could be subject to taxation or other restrictions on
    dividends or repatriation of earnings under applicable law,
    monetary transfer restrictions and foreign currency exchange
    regulations in the jurisdiction in which such foreign
    subsidiaries operate. See  Business  
    International Regulation  and    Our
    International Operations Face Political, Legal, Operational and
    Other Risks, Including Exposure to Local and Regional Economic
    Conditions, That Could Negatively Affect Those Operations or Our
    Profitability. 

A
    Downgrade or a Potential Downgrade in Our Financial Strength or
    Credit Ratings Could Result in a Loss of Business and Materially
    Adversely Affect Our Financial Condition and Results of
    Operations   

Financial strength ratings, which various Nationally Recognized
    Statistical Rating Organizations ( NRSRO ) publish as
    indicators of an insurance company s ability to meet
    contractholder and policyholder obligations, are important to
    maintaining public confidence in our products, our ability to
    market our products and our competitive position.

47

Table of Contents   

Downgrades in our financial strength ratings could have a
    material adverse effect on our financial condition and results
    of operations in many ways, including:

reducing new sales of insurance products, annuities and other
    investment products;

adversely affecting our relationships with our sales force and
    independent sales intermediaries;

materially increasing the number or amount of policy surrenders
    and withdrawals by contractholders and policyholders;

requiring us to reduce prices for many of our products and
    services to remain competitive; and

adversely affecting our ability to obtain reinsurance at
    reasonable prices or at all.

In addition to the financial strength ratings of our insurance
    subsidiaries, various NRSROs also publish credit ratings for
    MetLife, Inc. and several of its subsidiaries. Credit ratings
    are indicators of a debt issuer s ability to meet the terms
    of debt obligations in a timely manner and are important factors
    in our overall funding profile and ability to access certain
    types of liquidity. Downgrades in our credit ratings could have
    a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results
    of operations in many ways, including adversely limiting our
    access to capital markets, potentially increasing the cost of
    debt, and requiring us to post collateral. For example, with
    respect to derivative transactions with credit ratings downgrade
    triggers, a one-notch downgrade would have increased our
    derivative collateral requirements by $99 million at
    December 31, 2010. Also, $375 million of liabilities
    associated with funding agreements and other capital market
    products were subject to credit ratings downgrade triggers that
    permit early termination subject to a notice period of
    90 days.

In view of the difficulties experienced during 2008 and 2009 by
    many financial institutions, including our competitors in the
    insurance industry, we believe it is possible that the NRSROs
    will continue to heighten the level of scrutiny that they apply
    to such institutions, will continue to increase the frequency
    and scope of their credit reviews, will continue to request
    additional information from the companies that they rate, and
    may adjust upward the capital and other requirements employed in
    the NRSRO models for maintenance of certain ratings levels.
    Rating agencies use an  outlook statement  of
     positive,   stable,   negative 
    or  developing  to indicate a medium- or long-term
    trend in credit fundamentals which, if continued, may lead to a
    ratings change. A rating may have a  stable  outlook
    to indicate that the rating is not expected to change; however,
    a  stable  rating does not preclude a rating agency
    from changing a rating at any time, without notice. Certain
    rating agencies assign rating modifiers such as
     CreditWatch  or  Under Review  to indicate
    their opinion regarding the potential direction of a rating.
    These ratings modifiers are generally assigned in connection
    with certain events such as potential mergers and acquisitions,
    or material changes in a company s results, in order for
    the rating agencies to perform their analyses to fully determine
    the rating implications of the event. Certain rating agencies
    have recently implemented rating actions, including downgrades,
    outlook changes and modifiers, for MetLife, Inc. s and
    certain of its subsidiaries  insurer financial strength and
    credit ratings.

Based on the announcement in February 2010 that MetLife was in
    discussions to acquire ALICO, in February 2010, S P and
    A.M. Best placed the ratings of MetLife, Inc. and its
    subsidiaries on  CreditWatch with negative
    implications  and  under review with negative
    implications,  respectively. Also in connection with the
    announcement, in March 2010, Moody s changed the ratings
    outlook of MetLife, Inc. and its subsidiaries from
     stable  to  negative  outlook. Upon
    completion of the public financing transactions related to the
    Acquisition, in August 2010, S P affirmed the ratings of
    MetLife, Inc. and subsidiaries with a  negative 
    outlook, and removed them from  CreditWatch.  On
    November 1, 2010, upon closing of the Acquisition, S P
    changed the rating outlook of ALICO to  positive  from
     negative  and affirmed its financial strength rating;
    the ratings of MetLife, Inc. and its other subsidiaries were
    unaffected by this ratings action. Also on November 1,
    2010, Fitch Ratings upgraded by one notch (and changed the
    rating outlook from  Rating Watch Positive  to
     stable ) the financial strength rating of American
    Life and affirmed all existing ratings for MetLife, Inc. and its
    other subsidiaries. On November 4, 2010, A.M. Best
    upgraded by one notch the financial strength rating of American
    Life and changed the rating outlook from  under review with
    positive implications  to  negative. 
    A.M. Best also changed the outlook for MetLife, Inc. and
    certain of its other subsidiaries to  negative  from
     under review with negative implications.  Effective
    as of January in 2011, MetLife withdrew the American Life
    financial strength ratings by A.M. Best and Fitch Ratings
    as once it became a subsidiary of MetLife it was not deemed
    necessary to maintain stand-alone ratings.

48

Table of Contents   

On July 1, 2010, Moody s published revised guidance
    called  Revisions to Moody s Hybrid Tool Kit 
    (the  Guidance ) for assigning equity credit to
    so-called hybrid securities, i.e., securities with both debt and
    equity characteristics ( Hybrids ). Moody s
    evaluates Hybrids using certain specified criteria and then
    places each such security into a  basket,  with a
    specific percentage of debt and equity being associated with
    each basket, which is then used to adjust full sets of financial
    statements for purposes of, among other things, calculating the
    issuing company s financial leverage. Under the Guidance,
    Hybrids are one element that Moody s considers within the
    context of an issuer s overall credit profile. As of
    December 31, 2010, we have approximately $11.1 billion
    of Hybrids outstanding, which includes approximately
    $6.2 billion of debt securities and $4.9 billion of
    equity securities. Application of the Guidance has resulted in
    Moody s significantly reducing the amount of equity credit
    it assigns to these securities, including the common equity
    units issued to ALICO Holdings in connection with the
    Acquisition. We do not expect at this time, as a result of the
    Guidance, that a reduction in Moody s equity treatment of
    our Hybrids, including the common equity units, would result in
    any material negative impact on MetLife, Inc. s credit
    rating or the financial strength ratings of its insurance
    company subsidiaries. However, if we decided to increase our
    adjusted capital as a result of the application of the Guidance,
    we may seek to (i) issue additional common equity or higher
    equity content Hybrids satisfying the Guidance s revised
    rating criteria,
     and/or 
    (ii) redeem, repurchase or restructure existing Hybrids.
    Any sale of additional common equity would have a dilutive
    effect on our common stockholders.

We cannot predict what actions rating agencies may take, or what
    actions we may take in response to the actions of rating
    agencies, which could adversely affect our business. As with
    other companies in the financial services industry, our ratings
    could be downgraded at any time and without any notice by any
    NRSRO.

An
    Inability to Access Our Credit Facilities Could Result in a
    Reduction in Our Liquidity and Lead to Downgrades in Our Credit
    and Financial Strength Ratings   

In October 2010, we entered into two senior unsecured credit
    facilities: a three-year $3 billion facility and a
     364-day 
    $1 billion facility. We also have other facilities which we
    enter into in the ordinary course of business. See
     Management s Discussion and Analysis of Financial
    Condition and Results of Operations   Liquidity and
    Capital Resources   The Company   Liquidity
    and Capital Sources   Credit and Committed
    Facilities  and Notes 11 and 24 of the Notes to the
    Consolidated Financial Statements.

We rely on our credit facilities as a potential source of
    liquidity. The availability of these facilities could be
    critical to our credit and financial strength ratings and our
    ability to meet our obligations as they come due in a market
    when alternative sources of credit are tight. The credit
    facilities contain certain administrative, reporting, legal and
    financial covenants. We must comply with covenants under our
    credit facilities, including a requirement to maintain a
    specified minimum consolidated net worth.

Our right to make borrowings under these facilities is subject
    to the fulfillment of certain important conditions, including
    our compliance with all covenants, and our ability to borrow
    under these facilities is also subject to the continued
    willingness and ability of the lenders that are parties to the
    facilities to provide funds. Our failure to comply with the
    covenants in the credit facilities or fulfill the conditions to
    borrowings, or the failure of lenders to fund their lending
    commitments (whether due to insolvency, illiquidity or other
    reasons) in the amounts provided for under the terms of the
    facilities, would restrict our ability to access these credit
    facilities when needed and, consequently, could have a material
    adverse effect on our financial condition and results of
    operations.

Defaults,
    Downgrades or Other Events Impairing the Carrying Value of Our
    Fixed Maturity or Equity Securities Portfolio May Reduce Our
    Earnings   

We are subject to the risk that the issuers, or guarantors, of
    fixed maturity securities we own may default on principal and
    interest payments they owe us. We are also subject to the risk
    that the underlying collateral within loan-backed securities,
    including mortgage-backed securities, may default on principal
    and interest payments causing an adverse change in cash flows.
    Fixed maturity securities represent a significant portion of our
    investment portfolio. The occurrence of a major economic
    downturn, acts of corporate malfeasance, widening risk spreads,
    or other events that adversely affect the issuers, guarantors or
    underlying collateral of these securities could cause the
    estimated fair value of our fixed maturity securities portfolio
    and our earnings to decline and the default rate of the

49

Table of Contents   

fixed maturity securities in our investment portfolio to
    increase. A ratings downgrade affecting issuers or guarantors of
    particular securities, or similar trends that could worsen the
    credit quality of issuers, such as the corporate issuers of
    securities in our investment portfolio, could also have a
    similar effect. With economic uncertainty, credit quality of
    issuers or guarantors could be adversely affected. Similarly, a
    ratings downgrade affecting a security we hold could indicate
    the credit quality of that security has deteriorated and could
    increase the capital we must hold to support that security to
    maintain our RBC levels. Any event reducing the estimated fair
    value of these securities other than on a temporary basis could
    have a material adverse effect on our business, results of
    operations and financial condition. Levels of writedowns or
    impairments are impacted by our assessment of intent to sell, or
    whether it is more likely than not that we will be required to
    sell, fixed maturity securities and the intent and ability to
    hold equity securities which have declined in value until
    recovery. If we determine to reposition or realign portions of
    the portfolio so as not to hold certain equity securities, or
    intend to sell or determine that it is more likely than not that
    we will be required to sell, certain fixed maturity securities
    in an unrealized loss position prior to recovery, then we will
    incur an
     other-than-temporary 
    impairment charge in the period that the decision was made not
    to hold the equity security to recovery, or to sell, or the
    determination was made it is more likely than not that we will
    be required to sell the fixed maturity security.

Our
    Risk Management Policies and Procedures May Leave Us Exposed to
    Unidentified or Unanticipated Risk, Which Could Negatively
    Affect Our Business   

Management of risk requires, among other things, policies and
    procedures to record properly and verify a large number of
    transactions and events. We have devoted significant resources
    to develop our risk management policies and procedures and
    expect to continue to do so in the future. Nonetheless, our
    policies and procedures may not be comprehensive. Many of our
    methods for managing risk and exposures are based upon the use
    of observed historical market behavior or statistics based on
    historical models. As a result, these methods may not fully
    predict future exposures, which can be significantly greater
    than our historical measures indicate. Other risk management
    methods depend upon the evaluation of information regarding
    markets, clients, catastrophe occurrence or other matters that
    is publicly available or otherwise accessible to us. This
    information may not always be accurate, complete,
     up-to-date 
    or properly evaluated. See  Quantitative and Qualitative
    Disclosures About Market Risk. 

Reinsurance
    May Not Be Available, Affordable or Adequate to Protect Us
    Against Losses   

As part of our overall risk management strategy, we purchase
    reinsurance for certain risks underwritten by our various
    business segments. See  Business   Reinsurance
    Activity.  While reinsurance agreements generally bind the
    reinsurer for the life of the business reinsured at generally
    fixed pricing, market conditions beyond our control determine
    the availability and cost of the reinsurance protection for new
    business. In certain circumstances, the price of reinsurance for
    business already reinsured may also increase. Any decrease in
    the amount of reinsurance will increase our risk of loss and any
    increase in the cost of reinsurance will, absent a decrease in
    the amount of reinsurance, reduce our earnings. Accordingly, we
    may be forced to incur additional expenses for reinsurance or
    may not be able to obtain sufficient reinsurance on acceptable
    terms, which could adversely affect our ability to write future
    business or result in the assumption of more risk with respect
    to those policies we issue.

If the
    Counterparties to Our Reinsurance or Indemnification
    Arrangements or to the Derivative Instruments We Use to Hedge
    Our Business Risks Default or Fail to Perform, We May Be Exposed
    to Risks We Had Sought to Mitigate, Which Could Materially
    Adversely Affect Our Financial Condition and Results of
    Operations   

We use reinsurance, indemnification and derivative instruments
    to mitigate our risks in various circumstances. In general,
    reinsurance does not relieve us of our direct liability to our
    policyholders, even when the reinsurer is liable to us.
    Accordingly, we bear credit risk with respect to our reinsurers
    and indemnitors. We cannot provide assurance that our reinsurers
    will pay the reinsurance recoverables owed to us or that
    indemnitors will honor their obligations now or in the future or
    that they will pay these recoverables on a timely basis. A
    reinsurer s or indemnitor s insolvency, inability or
    unwillingness to make payments under the terms of reinsurance
    agreements or indemnity agreements with us could have a material
    adverse effect on our financial condition and results of
    operations.

50

Table of Contents   

In addition, we use derivative instruments to hedge various
    business risks. We enter into a variety of derivative
    instruments, including options, forwards, interest rate, credit
    default and currency swaps with a number of counterparties. See
     Management s Discussion and Analysis of Financial
    Condition and Results of Operations  
    Investments.  If our counterparties fail or refuse to honor
    their obligations under these derivative instruments, our hedges
    of the related risk will be ineffective. This is a more
    pronounced risk to us in view of the stresses suffered by
    financial institutions over the past few years. Such failure
    could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition
    and results of operations.

Differences
    Between Actual Claims Experience and Underwriting and Reserving
    Assumptions May Adversely Affect Our Financial
    Results   

Our earnings significantly depend upon the extent to which our
    actual claims experience is consistent with the assumptions we
    use in setting prices for our products and establishing
    liabilities for future policy benefits and claims. Our
    liabilities for future policy benefits and claims are
    established based on estimates by actuaries of how much we will
    need to pay for future benefits and claims. For life insurance
    and annuity products, we calculate these liabilities based on
    many assumptions and estimates, including estimated premiums to
    be received over the assumed life of the policy, the timing of
    the event covered by the insurance policy, the amount of
    benefits or claims to be paid and the investment returns on the
    investments we make with the premiums we receive. We establish
    liabilities for property and casualty claims and benefits based
    on assumptions and estimates of damages and liabilities
    incurred. To the extent that actual claims experience is less
    favorable than the underlying assumptions we used in
    establishing such liabilities, we could be required to increase
    our liabilities.

Due to the nature of the underlying risks and the high degree of
    uncertainty associated with the determination of liabilities for
    future policy benefits and claims, we cannot determine precisely
    the amounts which we will ultimately pay to settle our
    liabilities. Such amounts may vary from the estimated amounts,
    particularly when those payments may not occur until well into
    the future. We evaluate our liabilities periodically based on
    accounting requirements, which change from time to time, the
    assumptions used to establish the liabilities, as well as our
    actual experience. We charge or credit changes in our
    liabilities to expenses in the period the liabilities are
    established or re-estimated. If the liabilities originally
    established for future benefit payments prove inadequate, we
    must increase them. Such increases could affect earnings
    negatively and have a material adverse effect on our business,
    results of operations and financial condition.

Catastrophes
    May Adversely Impact Liabilities for Policyholder Claims and
    Reinsurance Availability   

Our life insurance operations are exposed to the risk of
    catastrophic mortality, such as a pandemic or other event that
    causes a large number of deaths. Significant influenza pandemics
    have occurred three times in the last century, but neither the
    likelihood, timing, nor the severity of a future pandemic can be
    predicted. A significant pandemic could have a major impact on
    the global economy or the economies of particular countries or
    regions, including travel, trade, tourism, the health system,
    food supply, consumption, overall economic output and,
    eventually, on the financial markets. In addition, a pandemic
    that affected our employees or the employees of our distributors
    or of other companies with which we do business could disrupt
    our business operations. The effectiveness of external parties,
    including governmental and non-governmental organizations, in
    combating the spread and severity of such a pandemic could have
    a material impact on the losses experienced by us. In our group
    insurance operations, a localized event that affects the
    workplace of one or more of our group insurance customers could
    cause a significant loss due to mortality or morbidity claims.
    These events could cause a material adverse effect on our
    results of operations in any period and, depending on their
    severity, could also materially and adversely affect our
    financial condition.

Our Auto   Home business has experienced, and will
    likely in the future experience, catastrophe losses that may
    have a material adverse impact on the business, results of
    operations and financial condition of the Auto   Home
    segment. Although Auto   Home makes every effort to
    manage our exposure to catastrophic risks through volatility
    management and reinsurance programs, these efforts do not
    eliminate all risk. Catastrophes can be caused by various
    events, including hurricanes, windstorms, earthquakes, hail,
    tornadoes, explosions, severe winter weather (including snow,
    freezing water, ice storms and blizzards), fires and man-made
    events such as terrorist attacks. Historically, substantially
    all of our catastrophe-related claims have related to homeowners
    coverages.

51

Table of Contents   

However, catastrophes may also affect other Auto  
    Home coverages. Due to their nature, we cannot predict the
    incidence, timing and severity of catastrophes. In addition,
    changing climate conditions, primarily rising global
    temperatures, may be increasing, or may in the future increase,
    the frequency and severity of natural catastrophes such as
    hurricanes.

Hurricanes and earthquakes are of particular note for our
    homeowners coverages. Areas of major hurricane exposure include
    coastal sections of the northeastern U.S. (including lower New
    York, Connecticut, Rhode Island and Massachusetts), the Gulf
    Coast (including Alabama, Mississippi, Louisiana and Texas) and
    Florida. We also have some earthquake exposure, primarily along
    the New Madrid fault line in the central U.S. and in the Pacific
    Northwest.

The extent of losses from a catastrophe is a function of both
    the total amount of insured exposure in the area affected by the
    event and the severity of the event. Most catastrophes are
    restricted to small geographic areas; however, hurricanes,
    earthquakes and man-made catastrophes may produce significant
    damage or loss of life in larger areas, especially those that
    are heavily populated. Claims resulting from natural or man-made
    catastrophic events could cause substantial volatility in our
    financial results for any fiscal quarter or year and could
    materially reduce our profitability or harm our financial
    condition. Also, catastrophic events could harm the financial
    condition of our reinsurers and thereby increase the probability
    of default on reinsurance recoveries. Our ability to write new
    business could also be affected. It is possible that increases
    in the value, caused by the effects of inflation or other
    factors, and geographic concentration of insured property, could
    increase the severity of claims from catastrophic events in the
    future.

Most of the jurisdictions in which our insurance subsidiaries
    are admitted to transact business require life and property and
    casualty insurers doing business within the jurisdiction to
    participate in guaranty associations, which are organized to pay
    contractual benefits owed pursuant to insurance policies issued
    by impaired, insolvent or failed insurers. These associations
    levy assessments, up to prescribed limits, on all member
    insurers in a particular state on the basis of the proportionate
    share of the premiums written by member insurers in the lines of
    business in which the impaired, insolvent or failed insurer is
    engaged. In addition, certain states have government owned or
    controlled organizations providing life and property and
    casualty insurance to their citizens. The activities of such
    organizations could also place additional stress on the adequacy
    of guaranty fund assessments. Many of these organizations also
    have the power to levy assessments similar to those of the
    guaranty associations described above. Some states permit member
    insurers to recover assessments paid through full or partial
    premium tax offsets. See  Business  
    U.S. Regulation   Insurance
    Regulation   Guaranty Associations and Similar
    Arrangements  and  Business   International
    Regulation. 

While in the past five years, the aggregate assessments levied
    against MetLife, Inc. s insurance subsidiaries have not
    been material, it is possible that a large catastrophic event
    could render such guaranty funds inadequate and we may be called
    upon to contribute additional amounts, which may have a material
    impact on our financial condition or results of operations in a
    particular period. We have established liabilities for guaranty
    fund assessments that we consider adequate for assessments with
    respect to insurers that are currently subject to insolvency
    proceedings, but additional liabilities may be necessary. See
    Note 16 of the Notes to the Consolidated Financial
    Statements.

Consistent with industry practice and accounting standards, we
    establish liabilities for claims arising from a catastrophe only
    after assessing the probable losses arising from the event. We
    cannot be certain that the liabilities we have established will
    be adequate to cover actual claim liabilities. From time to
    time, states have passed legislation that has the effect of
    limiting the ability of insurers to manage risk, such as
    legislation restricting an insurer s ability to withdraw
    from catastrophe-prone areas. While we attempt to limit our
    exposure to acceptable levels, subject to restrictions imposed
    by insurance regulatory authorities, a catastrophic event or
    multiple catastrophic events could have a material adverse
    effect on our business, results of operations and financial
    condition.

Our ability to manage this risk and the profitability of our
    property and casualty and life insurance businesses depends in
    part on our ability to obtain catastrophe reinsurance, which may
    not be available at commercially acceptable rates in the future.
    See    Reinsurance May Not Be Available,
    Affordable or Adequate to Protect Us Against Losses. 

52

Table of Contents   

Our
    Statutory Reserve Financings May Be Subject to Cost Increases
    and New Financings May Be Subject to Limited Market
    Capacity   

To support statutory reserves for several products, including,
    but not limited to, our level premium term life and universal
    life with secondary guarantees and MLIC s closed block, we
    currently utilize capital markets solutions for financing a
    portion of our statutory reserve requirements. While we have
    financing facilities in place for our previously written
    business and have remaining capacity in existing facilities to
    support writings through the end of 2010 or later, certain of
    these facilities are subject to cost increases upon the
    occurrence of specified ratings downgrades of MetLife or are
    subject to periodic repricing. Any resulting cost increases
    could negatively impact our financial results.

Future capacity for these statutory reserve funding structures
    in the marketplace is not guaranteed. If capacity becomes
    unavailable for a prolonged period of time, hindering our
    ability to obtain funding for these new structures, our ability
    to write additional business in a cost effective manner may be
    impacted.

Competitive
    Factors May Adversely Affect Our Market Share and
    Profitability   

Our segments are subject to intense competition. We believe that
    this competition is based on a number of factors, including
    service, product features, scale, price, financial strength,
    claims-paying ratings, credit ratings,
     e-business 
    capabilities and name recognition. We compete with a large
    number of other insurers, as well as non-insurance financial
    services companies, such as banks, broker-dealers and asset
    managers, for individual consumers, employers and other group
    customers and agents and other distributors of insurance and
    investment products. Some of these companies offer a broader
    array of products, have more competitive pricing or more
    attractive features in their products or, with respect to other
    insurers, have higher claims paying ability ratings. Some may
    also have greater financial resources with which to compete.
    National banks, which may sell annuity products of life insurers
    in some circumstances, also have pre-existing customer bases for
    financial services products. Many of our group insurance
    products are underwritten annually, and, accordingly, there is a
    risk that group purchasers may be able to obtain more favorable
    terms from competitors rather than renewing coverage with us.
    The effect of competition may, as a result, adversely affect the
    persistency of these and other products, as well as our ability
    to sell products in the future.

In addition, the investment management and securities brokerage
    businesses have relatively few barriers to entry and continually
    attract new entrants. See  Business  
    Competition. 

Finally, the new requirements imposed on the financial industry
    by Dodd-Frank could similarly have differential effects. See
       Various Aspects of Dodd-Frank Could Impact Our
    Business Operations, Capital Requirements and Profitability and
    Limit Our Growth. 

Industry
    Trends Could Adversely Affect the Profitability of Our
    Businesses   

Our segments continue to be influenced by a variety of trends
    that affect the insurance industry, including competition with
    respect to product features, price, distribution capability,
    customer service and information technology. See
     Management s Discussion and Analysis of Financial
    Condition and Results of Operations   Industry
    Trends.  The impact on our business and on the life
    insurance industry generally of the volatility and instability
    of the financial markets is difficult to predict, and our
    business plans, financial condition and results of operations
    may be negatively impacted or affected in other unexpected ways.
    In addition, the life insurance industry is subject to state
    regulation, and, as complex products are introduced, regulators
    may refine capital requirements and introduce new reserving
    standards. Dodd-Frank, Basel III and the market environment
    in general may also lead to changes in regulation that may
    benefit or disadvantage us relative to some of our competitors.
    See  Business   Competition, 
       Our Insurance, Brokerage and Banking
    Businesses Are Heavily Regulated, and Changes in Regulation May
    Reduce Our Profitability and Limit Our Growth  and
       Competitive Factors May Adversely Affect Our
    Market Share and Profitability. 

53

Table of Contents   

Consolidation
    of Distributors of Insurance Products May Adversely Affect the
    Insurance Industry and the Profitability of Our
    Business   

The insurance industry distributes many of its individual
    products through other financial institutions such as banks and
    broker-dealers. An increase in bank and broker-dealer
    consolidation activity may negatively impact the industry s
    sales, and such consolidation could increase competition for
    access to distributors, result in greater distribution expenses
    and impair our ability to market insurance products to our
    current customer base or to expand our customer base.
    Consolidation of distributors
     and/or  other
    industry changes may also increase the likelihood that
    distributors will try to renegotiate the terms of any existing
    selling agreements to terms less favorable to us.

Our
    Valuation of Fixed Maturity, Equity and Trading and Other
    Securities and Short-Term Investments May Include Methodologies,
    Estimations and Assumptions Which Are Subject to Differing
    Interpretations and Could Result in Changes to Investment
    Valuations That May Materially Adversely Affect Our Results of
    Operations or Financial Condition   

Fixed maturity, equity, and trading and other securities and
    short-term investments which are reported at estimated fair
    value on the consolidated balance sheets represent the majority
    of our total cash and investments. We have categorized these
    securities into a three-level hierarchy, based on the priority
    of the inputs to the respective valuation technique.

The fair value hierarchy gives the highest priority to quoted
    prices in active markets for identical assets or liabilities
    (Level 1) and the lowest priority to unobservable
    inputs (Level 3). An asset or liability s
    classification within the fair value hierarchy is based on the
    lowest level of significant input to its valuation. The input
    levels are as follows:

Level 1   

Unadjusted quoted prices in active markets for identical assets
    or liabilities. We define active markets based on average
    trading volume for equity securities. The size of the bid/ask
    spread is used as an indicator of market activity for fixed
    maturity securities.

Level 2   

Quoted prices in markets that are not active or inputs that are
    observable either directly or indirectly. Level 2 inputs
    include quoted prices for similar assets or liabilities other
    than quoted prices in Level 1; quoted prices in markets
    that are not active; or other significant inputs that are
    observable or can be derived principally from or corroborated by
    observable market data for substantially the full term of the
    assets or liabilities.

Level 3   

Unobservable inputs that are supported by little or no market
    activity and are significant to the estimated fair value of the
    assets or liabilities. Unobservable inputs reflect the reporting
    entity s own assumptions about the assumptions that market
    participants would use in pricing the asset or liability.
    Level 3 assets and liabilities include financial
    instruments whose values are determined using pricing models,
    discounted cash flow methodologies, or similar techniques, as
    well as instruments for which the determination of the estimated
    fair value requires significant management judgment or
    estimation.

At December 31, 2010, 7.0%, 85.8% and 7.2% of these
    securities represented Level 1, Level 2 and
    Level 3, respectively. The Level 1 securities
    primarily consist of certain U.S. Treasury, agency and
    government guaranteed fixed maturity securities; certain foreign
    government fixed maturity securities; exchange-traded common
    stock; certain trading securities; certain fair value option
    securities and certain short-term investments. The Level 2
    assets include fixed maturity and equity securities priced
    principally through independent pricing services using
    observable inputs. These fixed maturity securities include most
    U.S. Treasury, agency and government guaranteed securities,
    as well as the majority of U.S. and foreign corporate
    securities, RMBS, CMBS, state and political subdivision
    securities, foreign government securities, and ABS. Equity
    securities classified as Level 2 primarily consist of
    non-redeemable preferred securities and certain equity
    securities where market quotes are available but are not
    considered actively traded and are priced by independent pricing
    services. We review the valuation methodologies used by the
    independent pricing services on an ongoing basis and ensure that
    any changes to valuation methodologies are justified.
    Level 3 assets include fixed maturity securities priced
    principally through independent non-binding broker quotations or
    market standard valuation methodologies using inputs that are
    not

54

Table of Contents   

market observable or cannot be derived principally from or
    corroborated by observable market data. Level 3 consists of
    less liquid fixed maturity securities with very limited trading
    activity or where less price transparency exists around the
    inputs to the valuation methodologies including: U.S. and
    foreign corporate securities   including below
    investment grade private placements; RMBS; CMBS; and
    ABS   including all of those supported by
     sub-prime 
    mortgage loans. Equity securities classified as Level 3
    securities consist principally of nonredeemable preferred stock
    and common stock of companies that are privately held or
    companies for which there has been very limited trading activity
    or where less price transparency exists around the inputs to the
    valuation.

Prices provided by independent pricing services and independent
    non-binding broker quotations can vary widely even for the same
    security.

The determination of estimated fair values by management in the
    absence of quoted market prices is based on: (i) valuation
    methodologies; (ii) securities we deem to be comparable;
    and (iii) assumptions deemed appropriate given the
    circumstances. The fair value estimates are made at a specific
    point in time, based on available market information and
    judgments about financial instruments, including estimates of
    the timing and amounts of expected future cash flows and the
    credit standing of the issuer or counterparty. Factors
    considered in estimating fair value include: coupon rate,
    maturity, estimated duration, call provisions, sinking fund
    requirements, credit rating, industry sector of the issuer, and
    quoted market prices of comparable securities. The use of
    different methodologies and assumptions may have a material
    effect on the estimated fair value amounts. During periods of
    market disruption including periods of significantly rising or
    high interest rates, rapidly widening credit spreads or
    illiquidity, it may be difficult to value certain of our
    securities, for example
     sub-prime 
    mortgage-backed securities, mortgage-backed securities where the
    underlying loans are Alt-A and CMBS, if trading becomes less
    frequent
     and/or 
    market data becomes less observable. In times of financial
    market disruption, certain asset classes that were in active
    markets with significant observable data may become illiquid. In
    such cases, more securities may fall to Level 3 and thus
    require more subjectivity and management judgment. As such,
    valuations may include inputs and assumptions that are less
    observable or require greater estimation, as well as valuation
    methods which are more sophisticated or require greater
    estimation thereby resulting in estimated fair values which may
    be greater or less than the amount at which the investments may
    be ultimately sold. Further, rapidly changing and unprecedented
    credit and equity market conditions could materially impact the
    valuation of securities as reported within our consolidated
    financial statements and the
     period-to-period 
    changes in estimated fair value could vary significantly.
    Decreases in value may have a material adverse effect on our
    results of operations or financial condition.

If Our
    Business Does Not Perform Well, We May Be Required to Recognize
    an Impairment of Our Goodwill or Other Long-Lived Assets or to
    Establish a Valuation Allowance Against the Deferred Income Tax
    Asset, Which Could Adversely Affect Our Results of Operations or
    Financial Condition   

Goodwill represents the excess of the amounts we paid to acquire
    subsidiaries and other businesses over the estimated fair value
    of their net assets at the date of acquisition. As of
    December 31, 2010, our goodwill was $11,781, of which
    $6,959 of goodwill was established in connection with the
    acquisition of ALICO. We test goodwill at least annually for
    impairment. Impairment testing is performed based upon estimates
    of the estimated fair value of the  reporting unit  to
    which the goodwill relates. The reporting unit is the operating
    segment or a business one level below that operating segment if
    discrete financial information is prepared and regularly
    reviewed by management at that level. The estimated fair value
    of the reporting unit is impacted by the performance of the
    business. The performance of our businesses may be adversely
    impacted by prolonged market declines. If it is determined that
    the goodwill has been impaired, we must write down the goodwill
    by the amount of the impairment, with a corresponding charge to
    net income. Such writedowns could have an adverse effect on our
    results of operation or financial position. For example, our
    goodwill has increased substantially as a result of the
    Acquisition. Market factors, the failure of ALICO to perform
    well, or issues relating to the integration of ALICO could
    result in the reporting units containing parts of ALICO having
    fair values lower than their respective carrying values, which
    would result in a writedown of goodwill and, consequently, it
    could have a material adverse effect on our results of
    operations. See  Management s Discussion and Analysis
    of Financial Condition and Results of Operations  
    Summary of Critical Accounting Estimates  
    Goodwill. 

Long-lived assets, including assets such as real estate, also
    require impairment testing to determine whether changes in
    circumstances indicate that MetLife will be unable to recover
    the carrying amount of the asset group

55

Table of Contents   

through future operations of that asset group or market
    conditions that will impact the estimated fair value of those
    assets. Such writedowns could have a material adverse effect on
    our results of operations or financial position.

Deferred income tax represents the tax effect of the differences
    between the book and tax basis of assets and liabilities.
    Deferred tax assets are assessed periodically by management to
    determine if they are realizable. Factors in management s
    determination include the performance of the business including
    the ability to generate future taxable income. If based on
    available information, it is more likely than not that the
    deferred income tax asset will not be realized then a valuation
    allowance must be established with a corresponding charge to net
    income. Such charges could have a material adverse effect on our
    results of operations or financial position.

If Our
    Business Does Not Perform Well or if Actual Experience Versus
    Estimates Used in Valuing and Amortizing DAC, Deferred Sales
    Inducements ( DSI ) and VOBA Vary Significantly, We
    May Be Required to Accelerate the Amortization and/or Impair the
    DAC, DSI and VOBA Which Could Adversely Affect Our Results of
    Operations or Financial Condition   

We incur significant costs in connection with acquiring new and
    renewal business. Those costs that vary with and are primarily
    related to the production of new and renewal business are
    deferred and referred to as DAC. Bonus amounts credited to
    certain policyholders, either immediately upon receiving a
    deposit or as excess interest credits for a period of time, are
    referred to as DSI. The recovery of DAC and DSI is dependent
    upon the future profitability of the related business. The
    amount of future profit or margin is dependent principally on
    investment returns in excess of the amounts credited to
    policyholders, mortality, morbidity, persistency, interest
    crediting rates, dividends paid to policyholders, expenses to
    administer the business, creditworthiness of reinsurance
    counterparties and certain economic variables, such as
    inflation. Of these factors, we anticipate that investment
    returns are most likely to impact the rate of amortization of
    such costs. The aforementioned factors enter into
    management s estimates of gross profits or margins, which
    generally are used to amortize such costs.

If the estimates of gross profits or margins were overstated,
    then the amortization of such costs would be accelerated in the
    period the actual experience is known and would result in a
    charge to income. Significant or sustained equity market
    declines could result in an acceleration of amortization of the
    DAC and DSI related to variable annuity and variable universal
    life contracts, resulting in a charge to income. Such
    adjustments could have a material adverse effect on our results
    of operations or financial condition.

VOBA is an intangible asset that represents the excess of book
    value over the estimated fair value of acquired insurance,
    annuity, and investment-type contracts in-force at the
    acquisition date. The estimated fair value of the acquired
    liabilities is based on actuarially determined projections, by
    each block of business, of future policy and contract charges,
    premiums, mortality and morbidity, separate account performance,
    surrenders, operating expenses, investment returns,
    nonperformance risk adjustment and other factors. Actual
    experience on the purchased business may vary from these
    projections. Revisions to estimates result in changes to the
    amounts expensed in the reporting period in which the revisions
    are made and could result in a charge to income. Also, as VOBA
    is amortized similarly to DAC and DSI, an acceleration of the
    amortization of VOBA would occur if the estimates of gross
    profits or margins were overstated. Accordingly, the
    amortization of such costs would be accelerated in the period in
    which the actual experience is known and would result in a
    charge to net income. Significant or sustained equity market
    declines could result in an acceleration of amortization of the
    VOBA related to variable annuity and variable universal life
    contracts, resulting in a charge to income. Such adjustments
    could have a material adverse effect on our results of
    operations or financial condition. See  Management s
    Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of
    Operations   Summary of Critical Accounting
    Estimates   Deferred Policy Acquisition Costs and
    Value of Business Acquired  for further consideration of
    DAC and VOBA.

Changes
    in Accounting Standards Issued by the Financial Accounting
    Standards Board or Other Standard- Setting Bodies May Adversely
    Affect Our Financial Statements   

Our financial statements are subject to the application of GAAP,
    which is periodically revised
     and/or 
    expanded. Accordingly, from time to time we are required to
    adopt new or revised accounting standards issued by recognized
    authoritative bodies, including the Financial Accounting
    Standards Board. Market conditions have prompted accounting
    standard setters to expose new guidance which further interprets
    or seeks to revise accounting

56

Table of Contents   

pronouncements related to financial instruments, structures or
    transactions, as well as to issue new standards expanding
    disclosures. The impact of accounting pronouncements that have
    been issued but not yet implemented is disclosed in this annual
    and quarterly reports on
     Form 10-K 
    and
     Form 10-Q. 
    An assessment of proposed standards is not provided as such
    proposals are subject to change through the exposure process
    and, therefore, the effects on our financial statements cannot
    be meaningfully assessed. It is possible that future accounting
    standards we are required to adopt could change the current
    accounting treatment that we apply to our consolidated financial
    statements and that such changes could have a material adverse
    effect on our financial condition and results of operations.

Changes
    in Our Discount Rate, Expected Rate of Return and Expected
    Compensation Increase Assumptions for Our Pension and Other
    Postretirement Benefit Plans May Result in Increased Expenses
    and Reduce Our Profitability   

We determine our pension and other postretirement benefit plan
    costs based on our best estimates of future plan experience.
    These assumptions are reviewed regularly and include discount
    rates, expected rates of return on plan assets and expected
    increases in compensation levels and expected medical inflation.
    Changes in these assumptions may result in increased expenses
    and reduce our profitability. See Note 17 of the Notes to
    the Consolidated Financial Statements for details on how changes
    in these assumptions would affect plan costs.

Guarantees
    Within Certain of Our Products that Protect Policyholders
    Against Significant Downturns in Equity Markets May Decrease Our
    Earnings, Increase the Volatility of Our Results if Hedging or
    Risk Management Strategies Prove Ineffective, Result in Higher
    Hedging Costs and Expose Us to Increased Counterparty
    Risk   

Certain of our variable annuity products include guaranteed
    benefits. These include guaranteed death benefits, guaranteed
    withdrawal benefits, lifetime withdrawal guarantees, guaranteed
    minimum accumulation benefits, and guaranteed minimum income
    benefits. Periods of significant and sustained downturns in
    equity markets, increased equity volatility, or reduced interest
    rates could result in an increase in the valuation of the future
    policy benefit or policyholder account balance liabilities
    associated with such products, resulting in a reduction to net
    income. We use reinsurance in combination with derivative
    instruments to mitigate the liability exposure and the
    volatility of net income associated with these liabilities, and
    while we believe that these and other actions have mitigated the
    risks related to these benefits, we remain liable for the
    guaranteed benefits in the event that reinsurers or derivative
    counterparties are unable or unwilling to pay. In addition, we
    are subject to the risk that hedging and other management
    procedures prove ineffective or that unanticipated policyholder
    behavior or mortality, combined with adverse market events,
    produces economic losses beyond the scope of the risk management
    techniques employed. These, individually or collectively, may
    have a material adverse effect on net income, financial
    condition or liquidity. We are also subject to the risk that the
    cost of hedging these guaranteed minimum benefits increases as
    implied volatilities increase
     and/or 
    interest rates decrease, resulting in a reduction to net income.

The valuation of certain of the foregoing liabilities (carried
    at fair value) includes an adjustment for nonperformance risk
    that reflects the credit standing of the issuing entity. This
    adjustment, which is not hedged, is based in part on publicly
    available information regarding credit spreads related to the
    Holding Company s debt, including credit default swaps. In
    periods of extreme market volatility, movements in these credit
    spreads can have a significant impact on net income.

Guarantees
    Within Certain of Our Life and Annuity Products May Increase Our
    Exposure to Foreign Exchange Risk, and Decrease Our
    Earnings   

Certain of our life and annuity products are exposed to foreign
    exchange risk. Payments under these contracts may be required to
    be made in different currencies, depending on the circumstances.
    Therefore, payments may be required in a different currency than
    the currency upon which the liability valuation is based. If the
    currency upon which expected future payments are made
    strengthens relative to the currency upon which the liability
    valuation is based, the liability valuation may increase,
    resulting in a reduction of net income.

57

Table of Contents   

We May
    Need to Fund Deficiencies in Our Closed Block; Assets
    Allocated to the Closed Block Benefit Only the Holders of Closed
    Block Policies   

MLIC s plan of reorganization, as amended (the
     Plan ), required that we establish and operate an
    accounting mechanism, known as a closed block, to ensure that
    the reasonable dividend expectations of policyholders who own
    certain individual insurance policies of MLIC are met. See
    Note 10 of the Notes to the Consolidated Financial
    Statements. We allocated assets to the closed block in an amount
    that will produce cash flows which, together with anticipated
    revenue from the policies included in the closed block, are
    reasonably expected to be sufficient to support obligations and
    liabilities relating to these policies, including, but not
    limited to, provisions for the payment of claims and certain
    expenses and tax, and to provide for the continuation of the
    policyholder dividend scales in effect for 1999, if the
    experience underlying such scales continues, and for appropriate
    adjustments in such scales if the experience changes. We cannot
    provide assurance that the closed block assets, the cash flows
    generated by the closed block assets and the anticipated revenue
    from the policies included in the closed block will be
    sufficient to provide for the benefits guaranteed under these
    policies. If they are not sufficient, we must fund the
    shortfall. Even if they are sufficient, we may choose, for
    competitive reasons, to support policyholder dividend payments
    with our general account funds.

The closed block assets, the cash flows generated by the closed
    block assets and the anticipated revenue from the policies in
    the closed block will benefit only the holders of those
    policies. In addition, to the extent that these amounts are
    greater than the amounts estimated at the time the closed block
    was funded, dividends payable in respect of the policies
    included in the closed block may be greater than they would be
    in the absence of a closed block. Any excess earnings will be
    available for distribution over time only to closed block
    policyholders.

Litigation
    and Regulatory Investigations Are Increasingly Common in Our
    Businesses and May Result in Significant Financial Losses and/or
    Harm to Our Reputation   

We face a significant risk of litigation and regulatory
    investigations and actions in the ordinary course of operating
    our businesses, including the risk of class action lawsuits. Our
    pending legal and regulatory actions include proceedings
    specific to us and others generally applicable to business
    practices in the industries in which we operate. In connection
    with our insurance operations, plaintiffs  lawyers may
    bring or are bringing class actions and individual suits
    alleging, among other things, issues relating to sales or
    underwriting practices, claims payments and procedures, product
    design, disclosure, administration, denial or delay of benefits
    and breaches of fiduciary or other duties to customers.
    Plaintiffs in class action and other lawsuits against us may
    seek very large or indeterminate amounts, including punitive and
    treble damages, and the damages claimed and the amount of any
    probable and estimable liability, if any, may remain unknown for
    substantial periods of time. See Note 16 of the Notes to
    the Consolidated Financial Statements.

Due to the vagaries of litigation, the outcome of a litigation
    matter and the amount or range of potential loss at particular
    points in time may normally be difficult to ascertain.
    Uncertainties can include how fact finders will evaluate
    documentary evidence and the credibility and effectiveness of
    witness testimony, and how trial and appellate courts will apply
    the law in the context of the pleadings or evidence presented,
    whether by motion practice, or at trial or on appeal.
    Disposition valuations are also subject to the uncertainty of
    how opposing parties and their counsel will themselves view the
    relevant evidence and applicable law.

On a quarterly and annual basis, we review relevant information
    with respect to litigation and contingencies to be reflected in
    our consolidated financial statements. The review includes
    senior legal and financial personnel. Estimates of possible
    losses or ranges of loss for particular matters cannot in the
    ordinary course be made with a reasonable degree of certainty.
    Liabilities are established when it is probable that a loss has
    been incurred and the amount of the loss can be reasonably
    estimated.

Liabilities have been established for a number of matters noted
    in Note 16 of the Notes to the Consolidated Financial
    Statements. It is possible that some of the matters could
    require us to pay damages or make other expenditures or
    establish accruals in amounts that could not be estimated at
    December 31, 2010.

58

Table of Contents   

MLIC and its affiliates are currently defendants in numerous
    lawsuits including class actions and individual suits, alleging
    improper marketing or sales of individual life insurance
    policies, annuities, mutual funds or other products.

In addition, MLIC is a defendant in a large number of lawsuits
    seeking compensatory and punitive damages for personal injuries
    allegedly caused by exposure to asbestos or asbestos-containing
    products. These lawsuits principally have focused on allegations
    with respect to certain research, publication and other
    activities of one or more of MLIC s employees during the
    period from the 1920 s through approximately the
    1950 s and have alleged that MLIC learned or should have
    learned of certain health risks posed by asbestos and, among
    other things, improperly publicized or failed to disclose those
    health risks. Additional litigation relating to these matters
    may be commenced in the future. The ability of MLIC to estimate
    its ultimate asbestos exposure is subject to considerable
    uncertainty, and the conditions impacting its liability can be
    dynamic and subject to change. The availability of reliable data
    is limited and it is difficult to predict with any certainty the
    numerous variables that can affect liability estimates,
    including the number of future claims, the cost to resolve
    claims, the disease mix and severity of disease in pending and
    future claims, the impact of the number of new claims filed in a
    particular jurisdiction and variations in the law in the
    jurisdictions in which claims are filed, the possible impact of
    tort reform efforts, the willingness of courts to allow
    plaintiffs to pursue claims against MLIC when exposure took
    place after the dangers of asbestos exposure were well known,
    and the impact of any possible future adverse verdicts and their
    amounts. The number of asbestos cases that may be brought or the
    aggregate amount of any liability that MLIC may incur, and the
    total amount paid in settlements in any given year are uncertain
    and may vary significantly from year to year. Accordingly, it is
    reasonably possible that our total exposure to asbestos claims
    may be materially greater than the liability recorded by us in
    our consolidated financial statements and that future charges to
    income may be necessary. The potential future charges could be
    material in the particular quarterly or annual periods in which
    they are recorded.

We are also subject to various regulatory inquiries, such as
    information requests, subpoenas and books and record
    examinations, from state and federal regulators and other
    authorities. A substantial legal liability or a significant
    regulatory action against us could have a material adverse
    effect on our business, financial condition and results of
    operations. Moreover, even if we ultimately prevail in the
    litigation, regulatory action or investigation, we could suffer
    significant reputational harm, which could have a material
    adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results
    of operations, including our ability to attract new customers,
    retain our current customers and recruit and retain employees.
    Regulatory inquiries and litigation may cause volatility in the
    price of stocks of companies in our industry.

The New York Attorney General announced on July 29, 2010
    that his office had launched a major fraud investigation into
    the life insurance industry for practices related to the use of
    retained asset accounts as a settlement option for death
    benefits and that subpoenas requesting comprehensive data
    related to retained asset accounts have been served on MetLife
    and other insurance carriers. We received the subpoena on
    July 30, 2010. We also have received requests for documents
    and information from U.S. congressional committees and
    members as well as various state regulatory bodies, including
    the New York Insurance Department. It is possible that other
    state and federal regulators or legislative bodies may pursue
    similar investigations or make related inquiries. We cannot
    predict what effect any such investigations might have on our
    earnings or the availability of our retained asset account known
    as the Total Control Account ( TCA ), but we believe
    that our financial statements taken as a whole would not be
    materially affected. We believe that any allegations that
    information about the TCA is not adequately disclosed or that
    the accounts are fraudulent or violate state or federal laws are
    without merit.

We cannot give assurance that current claims, litigation,
    unasserted claims probable of assertion, investigations and
    other proceedings against us will not have a material adverse
    effect on our business, financial condition or results of
    operations. It is also possible that related or unrelated
    claims, litigation, unasserted claims probable of assertion,
    investigations and proceedings may be commenced in the future,
    and we could become subject to further investigations and have
    lawsuits filed or enforcement actions initiated against us. In
    addition, increased regulatory

59

Table of Contents   

scrutiny and any resulting investigations or proceedings could
    result in new legal actions and precedents and industry-wide
    regulations that could adversely affect our business, financial
    condition and results of operations.

We May
    Not be Able to Protect Our Intellectual Property and May be
    Subject to Infringement Claims   

We rely on a combination of contractual rights with third
    parties and copyright, trademark, patent and trade secret laws
    to establish and protect our intellectual property. Although we
    endeavor to protect our rights, third parties may infringe or
    misappropriate our intellectual property. We may have to
    litigate to enforce and protect our copyrights, trademarks,
    patents, trade secrets and know-how or to determine their scope,
    validity or enforceability. This would represent a diversion of
    resources that may be significant and our efforts may not prove
    successful. The inability to secure or protect our intellectual
    property assets could have a material adverse effect on our
    business and our ability to compete.

We may be subject to claims by third parties for
    (i) patent, trademark or copyright infringement,
    (ii) breach of copyright, trademark or license usage
    rights, or (iii) misappropriation of trade secrets. Any
    such claims and any resulting litigation could result in
    significant expense and liability for damages. If we were found
    to have infringed or misappropriated a third-party patent or
    other intellectual property right, we could in some
    circumstances be enjoined from providing certain products or
    services to our customers or from utilizing and benefiting from
    certain methods, processes, copyrights, trademarks, trade
    secrets or licenses. Alternatively, we could be required to
    enter into costly licensing arrangements with third parties or
    implement a costly work around. Any of these scenarios could
    have a material adverse effect on our business and results of
    operations.

New
    and Impending Compensation and Corporate Governance Regulations
    Could Hinder or Prevent Us From Attracting and Retaining
    Management and Other Employees with the Talent and Experience to
    Manage and Conduct Our Business Effectively   

The compensation and corporate governance practices of financial
    institutions have become and will continue to be subject to
    increasing regulation and scrutiny. Dodd-Frank includes new
    requirements that will affect our corporate governance and
    compensation practices, including some that have resulted in (or
    are likely to lead to) shareholders having the limited right to
    use MetLife, Inc. s proxy statement to solicit proxies to
    vote for their own candidates for director, impose additional
    requirements for membership on Board committees, requirements
    for additional shareholder votes on compensation matters,
    requirements for policies to recover compensation previously
    paid to certain executives under certain circumstances,
    elimination of broker discretionary voting on compensation
    matters, requirements for additional performance and
    compensation disclosure, and other requirements. See
       Various Aspects of Dodd-Frank Could Impact Our
    Business Operations, Capital Requirements and Profitability and
    Limit Our Growth.  In addition, the Federal Reserve Board,
    the FDIC and other U.S. bank regulators have released
    guidelines on incentive compensation that may apply to or impact
    MetLife, Inc. as a bank holding company. These requirements and
    restrictions, and others Congress or regulators may propose or
    implement, could hinder or prevent us from attracting and
    retaining management and other employees with the talent and
    experience to manage and conduct our business effectively.

Although AIG has received assurances from the Troubled Asset
    Relief Program Special Master for Executive Compensation that
    neither we nor ALICO will be subject to compensation related
    requirements and restrictions under programs established in
    whole or in part under EESA, there can be no assurance that the
    Acquisition will not lead to greater public or governmental
    scrutiny, regulation, or restrictions on our compensation
    practices as a result of the Acquisition and expansion into new
    markets outside the U.S., whether in connection with AIG s
    having received U.S. government funding or as a result of
    other factors.

Legislative
    and Regulatory Activity in Health Care and Other Employee
    Benefits Could Increase the Costs or Administrative Burdens of
    Providing Benefits to Our Employees or Hinder or Prevent Us From
    Attracting and Retaining Employees, or Affect our Profitability
    As a Provider of Life Insurance, Annuities, and Non-Medical
    Health Insurance Benefit Products   

The Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act, signed into law
    on March 23, 2010, and The Health Care and Education
    Reconciliation Act of 2010, signed into law on March 30,
    2010 (together, the  Health Care Act ), may

60

Table of Contents   

lead to fundamental changes in the way that employers, including
    us, provide health care benefits, other benefits, and other
    forms of compensation to their employees and former employees.
    Among other changes, and subject to various effective dates, the
    Health Care Act generally restricts certain limits on benefits,
    mandates coverage for certain kinds of care, extends the
    required coverage of dependent children through age 26,
    eliminates pre-existing condition exclusions or limitations,
    requires cost reporting and, in some cases, requires premium
    rebates to participants under certain circumstances, limits
    coverage waiting periods, establishes several penalties on
    employers who fail to offer sufficient coverage to their
    full-time employees, and requires employers under certain
    circumstances to provide employees with vouchers to purchase
    their own health care coverage. The Health Care Act also
    provides for increased taxation of  high cost 
    coverage, restricts the tax deductibility of certain
    compensation paid by health insurers, reduces the tax
    deductibility of retiree health care costs to the extent of any
    retiree prescription drug benefit subsidy provided to the
    employer by the federal government, increases Medicare taxes on
    certain high earners, and establishes health insurance
     exchanges  for individual purchases of health
    insurance.

The impact of the Health Care Act on us as an employer and on
    the benefit plans we sponsor for employees or retirees and their
    dependents, whether those benefits remain competitive or
    effective in meeting their business objectives, and our costs to
    provide such benefits and our tax liabilities in connection with
    benefits or compensation, cannot be predicted. Furthermore, we
    cannot predict the impact of choices that will be made by
    various regulators, including the U.S. Treasury, the IRS, the
    U.S. Department of Health and Human Services, and state
    regulators, to promulgate regulations or guidance, or to make
    determinations under or related to the Health Care Act. Either
    the Health Care Act or any of these regulatory actions could
    adversely affect our ability to attract, retain, and motivate
    talented associates. They could also result in increased or
    unpredictable costs to provide employee benefits, and could harm
    our competitive position if we are subject to fees, penalties,
    tax provisions or other limitations in the Health Care Act and
    our competitors are not.

The Health Care Act also imposes requirements on us as a
    provider of non-medical health insurance benefit products,
    subject to various effective dates. It also imposes requirements
    on the purchasers of certain of these products and has
    implications for certain other MLIC products, such as annuities.
    We cannot predict the impact of the Act or of regulations,
    guidance or determinations made by various regulators, on the
    various products that we offer. Either the Health Care Act or
    any of these regulatory actions could adversely affect our
    ability to offer certain of these products in the same manner as
    we do today. They could also result in increased or
    unpredictable costs to provide certain products, and could harm
    our competitive position if the Health Care Act has a disparate
    impact on our products compared to products offered by our
    competitors.

The Preservation of Access to Care for Medicare Beneficiaries
    and Pension Relief Act of 2010 also includes certain provisions
    for defined benefit pension plan funding relief. These
    provisions may impact the likelihood
     and/or 
    timing of corporate plan sponsors terminating their plans
     and/or 
    engaging in transactions to partially or fully transfer pension
    obligations to an insurance company. As part of our Corporate
    Benefit Funding segment, we offer general account and separate
    account group annuity products that enable a plan sponsor to
    transfer these risks, often in connection with the termination
    of defined benefit pension plans. Consequently, this legislation
    could indirectly affect the mix of our business, with fewer
    closeouts and more non-guaranteed funding products, and
    adversely impact our results of operations.

Changes
    in U.S. Federal and State Securities Laws and Regulations, and
    State Insurance Regulations Regarding Suitability of Annuity
    Product Sales, May Affect Our Operations and Our
    Profitability   

Federal and state securities laws and regulations apply to
    insurance products that are also  securities, 
    including variable annuity contracts and variable life insurance
    policies. As a result, some of MetLife, Inc. s subsidiaries
    and their activities in offering and selling variable insurance
    contracts and policies are subject to extensive regulation under
    these securities laws. These subsidiaries issue variable annuity
    contracts and variable life insurance policies through separate
    accounts that are registered with the SEC as investment
    companies under the Investment Company Act. Each registered
    separate account is generally divided into
     sub-accounts, 
    each of which invests in an underlying mutual fund which is
    itself a registered investment company under the Investment
    Company Act. In addition, the variable annuity contracts and
    variable life insurance policies issued by the separate accounts
    are registered with the SEC under the Securities Act. Other
    subsidiaries are registered with the SEC as

61

Table of Contents   

broker-dealers under the Exchange Act, and are members of and
    subject to regulation by FINRA. Further, some of our
    subsidiaries are registered as investment advisers with the SEC
    under the Investment Advisers Act of 1940, and are also
    registered as investment advisers in various states, as
    applicable.

Federal and state securities laws and regulations are primarily
    intended to ensure the integrity of the financial markets and to
    protect investors in the securities markets, as well as protect
    investment advisory or brokerage clients. These laws and
    regulations generally grant regulatory agencies broad rulemaking
    and enforcement powers, including the power to limit or restrict
    the conduct of business for failure to comply with the
    securities laws and regulations. A number of changes have
    recently been suggested to the laws and regulations that govern
    the conduct of our variable insurance products business and our
    distributors that could have a material adverse effect on our
    financial condition and results of operations. For example,
    Dodd-Frank authorizes the SEC to establish a standard of conduct
    applicable to brokers and dealers when providing personalized
    investment advice to retail and other customers. This standard
    of conduct would be to act in the best interest of the customer
    without regard to the financial or other interest of the broker
    or dealer providing the advice. Further, proposals have been
    made that the SEC establish a self-regulatory organization with
    respect to registered investment advisers, which could increase
    the level of regulatory oversight over such investment advisers.

In addition, state insurance regulators are becoming more active
    in adopting and enforcing suitability standards with respect to
    sales of annuities, both fixed and variable. In particular, the
    NAIC has adopted a revised Suitability in Annuity Transactions
    Model Regulation ( SAT ), that will, if enacted by the
    states, place new responsibilities upon issuing insurance
    companies with respect to the suitability of annuity sales,
    including responsibilities for training agents. Several states
    have already enacted laws based on the SAT.

We also may be subject to similar laws and regulations in the
    foreign countries in which we offer products or conduct other
    activities similar to those described above. See
     Business   International Regulation. 

Changes
    in Tax Laws, Tax Regulations, or Interpretations of Such Laws or
    Regulations Could Increase Our Corporate Taxes; Changes in Tax
    Laws Could Make Some of Our Products Less Attractive to
    Consumers   

Changes in tax laws, Treasury and other regulations promulgated
    thereunder, or interpretations of such laws or regulations could
    increase our corporate taxes. The Obama Administration has
    proposed corporate tax changes. Changes in corporate tax rates
    could affect the value of deferred tax assets and deferred tax
    liabilities. Furthermore, the value of deferred tax assets could
    be impacted by future earnings levels.

Changes in tax laws could make some of our products less
    attractive to consumers. A shift away from life insurance and
    annuity contracts and other tax-deferred products would reduce
    our income from sales of these products, as well as the assets
    upon which we earn investment income. The Obama Administration
    has proposed certain changes to individual income tax rates and
    rules applicable to certain policies.

We cannot predict whether any tax legislation impacting
    corporate taxes or insurance products will be enacted, what the
    specific terms of any such legislation will be or whether, if at
    all, any legislation would have a material adverse effect on our
    financial condition and results of operations.

Changes
    to Regulations Under the Employee Retirement Income Security Act
    of 1974 Could Adversely Affect Our Distribution Model by
    Restricting Our Ability to Provide Customers With
    Advice   

The prohibited transaction rules of ERISA and the Internal
    Revenue Code generally restrict the provision of investment
    advice to ERISA plans and participants and Individual Retirement
    Accounts ( IRAs ) if the investment recommendation
    results in fees paid to the individual advisor, his or her firm
    or their affiliates that vary according to the investment
    recommendation chosen. In March 2010, the DOL issued proposed
    regulations which provide limited relief from these investment
    advice restrictions. If the proposed rules are issued in final
    form and no additional relief is provided regarding these
    investment advice restrictions, the ability of our affiliated
    broker-dealers and their registered representatives to provide
    investment advice to ERISA plans and participants, and with
    respect to IRAs, would likely be significantly restricted. Also,
    the fee and revenue arrangements of certain advisory

62

Table of Contents   

programs may be required to be revenue neutral, resulting in
    potential lost revenues for these broker-dealers and their
    affiliates.

Other proposed regulatory initiatives under ERISA also may
    negatively impact the current business model of our
    broker-dealers. In particular, the DOL issued a proposed
    regulation in October 2010 that would, if adopted as proposed,
    significantly broaden the circumstances under which a person or
    entity providing investment advice with respect to ERISA plans
    or IRAs would be deemed a fiduciary under ERISA or the Internal
    Revenue Code. If adopted, the proposed regulations may make it
    easier for the DOL in enforcement actions, and for
    plaintiffs  attorneys in ERISA litigation, to attempt to
    extend fiduciary status to advisors who would not be deemed
    fiduciaries under current regulations.

In addition, the DOL has issued a number of regulations recently
    that increase the level of disclosure that must be provided to
    plan sponsors and participants, and may issue additional such
    regulations in 2011. These ERISA disclosure requirements will
    likely increase the regulatory and compliance burden upon
    MetLife, resulting in increased costs.

We May
    Be Unable to Attract and Retain Sales Representatives for Our
    Products   

We must attract and retain productive sales representatives to
    sell our insurance, annuities and investment products. Strong
    competition exists among insurers for sales representatives with
    demonstrated ability. In addition, there is competition for
    representatives with other types of financial services firms,
    such as independent broker-dealers.

We compete with other insurers for sales representatives
    primarily on the basis of our financial position, support
    services and compensation and product features. We continue to
    undertake several initiatives to grow our career agency force
    while continuing to enhance the efficiency and production of our
    existing sales force. We cannot provide assurance that these
    initiatives will succeed in attracting and retaining new agents.
    Sales of individual insurance, annuities and investment products
    and our results of operations and financial condition could be
    materially adversely affected if we are unsuccessful in
    attracting and retaining agents. See  Business  
    Competition. 

MetLife,
    Inc. s Board of Directors May Control the Outcome of
    Stockholder Votes on Many Matters Due to the Voting Provisions
    of the MetLife Policyholder Trust   

Under the Plan, we established the MetLife Policyholder Trust
    (the  Trust ) to hold the shares of MetLife, Inc.
    common stock allocated to eligible policyholders not receiving
    cash or policy credits under the plan. As of February 18,
    2011, the Trust held 220,255,199 shares, or 22.3%, of the
    outstanding shares of MetLife, Inc. common stock. Because of the
    number of shares held in the Trust and the voting provisions of
    the Trust, the Trust may affect the outcome of matters brought
    to a stockholder vote.

Except on votes regarding certain fundamental corporate actions
    described below, the trustee will vote all of the shares of
    common stock held in the Trust in accordance with the
    recommendations given by MetLife, Inc. s Board of Directors
    to its stockholders or, if the Board gives no such
    recommendations, as directed by the Board. As a result of the
    voting provisions of the Trust, the Board of Directors may be
    able to control votes on matters submitted to a vote of
    stockholders, excluding those fundamental corporate actions, so
    long as the Trust holds a substantial number of shares of common
    stock.

If the vote relates to fundamental corporate actions specified
    in the Trust, the trustee will solicit instructions from the
    Trust beneficiaries and vote all shares held in the Trust in
    proportion to the instructions it receives. These actions
    include:

an election or removal of directors in which a stockholder has
    properly nominated one or more candidates in opposition to a
    nominee or nominees of MetLife, Inc. s Board of Directors
    or a vote on a stockholder s proposal to oppose a Board
    nominee for director, remove a director for cause or fill a
    vacancy caused by the removal of a director by stockholders,
    subject to certain conditions;

63

Table of Contents   

a merger or consolidation, a sale, lease or exchange of all or
    substantially all of the assets, or a recapitalization or
    dissolution, of MetLife, Inc., in each case requiring a vote of
    stockholders under applicable Delaware law;

any transaction that would result in an exchange or conversion
    of shares of common stock held by the Trust for cash, securities
    or other property; and

any proposal requiring MetLife, Inc. s Board of Directors
    to amend or redeem the rights under MetLife, Inc. s
    stockholder rights plan, other than a proposal with respect to
    which we have received advice of nationally-recognized legal
    counsel to the effect that the proposal is not a proper subject
    for stockholder action under Delaware law. MetLife, Inc. does
    not currently have a stockholder rights plan.

If a vote concerns any of these fundamental corporate actions,
    the trustee will vote all of the shares of common stock held by
    the Trust in proportion to the instructions it received, which
    will give disproportionate weight to the instructions actually
    given by Trust beneficiaries.

ALICO Holdings has agreed to vote all shares of MetLife, Inc.
    common stock acquired by it in connection with the Acquisition
    in proportion to the votes cast by all other stockholders of
    MetLife, Inc., including the Trust.

State
    Laws, Federal Laws, Our Certificate of Incorporation and Our
    By-Laws May Delay, Deter or Prevent Takeovers and Business
    Combinations that Stockholders Might Consider in Their Best
    Interests   

State laws and our certificate of incorporation and by-laws may
    delay, deter or prevent a takeover attempt that stockholders
    might consider in their best interests. For instance, they may
    prevent stockholders from receiving the benefit from any premium
    over the market price of MetLife, Inc. s common stock
    offered by a bidder in a takeover context. Even in the absence
    of a takeover attempt, the existence of these provisions may
    adversely affect the prevailing market price of MetLife,
    Inc. s common stock if they are viewed as discouraging
    takeover attempts in the future.

Any person seeking to acquire a controlling interest in us would
    face various regulatory obstacles which may delay, deter or
    prevent a takeover attempt that stockholders of MetLife, Inc.
    might consider in their best interests. First, the insurance
    laws and regulations of the various states in which MetLife,
    Inc. s insurance subsidiaries are organized may delay or
    impede a business combination involving us. State insurance laws
    prohibit an entity from acquiring control of an insurance
    company without the prior approval of the domestic insurance
    regulator. Under most states  statutes, an entity is
    presumed to have control of an insurance company if it owns,
    directly or indirectly, 10% or more of the voting stock of that
    insurance company or its parent company. We are also subject to
    banking regulations, and may in the future become subject to
    additional regulations. Dodd-Frank contains provisions that
    could restrict or impede consolidation, mergers and acquisitions
    by systemically significant firms
     and/or  large
    bank holding companies. See  Business   U.S.
    Regulation   Financial Holding Company
    Regulation   Change of Control and Restrictions on
    Mergers and Acquisitions.  In addition, the Investment
    Company Act would require approval by the contract owners of our
    variable contracts in order to effectuate a change of control of
    any affiliated investment adviser to a mutual fund underlying
    our variable contracts. Finally, FINRA approval would be
    necessary for a change of control of any FINRA registered
    broker-dealer that is a direct or indirect subsidiary of
    MetLife, Inc.

In addition, Section 203 of the Delaware General
    Corporation Law may affect the ability of an  interested
    stockholder  to engage in certain business combinations,
    including mergers, consolidations or acquisitions of additional
    shares, for a period of three years following the time that the
    stockholder becomes an  interested stockholder.  An
     interested stockholder  is defined to include persons
    owning, directly or indirectly, 15% or more of the outstanding
    voting stock of a corporation.

MetLife, Inc. s certificate of incorporation and by-laws
    also contain provisions that may delay, deter or prevent a
    takeover attempt that stockholders might consider in their best
    interests. These provisions may adversely affect prevailing
    market prices for MetLife, Inc. s common stock and include:
    classification of MetLife, Inc. s Board of Directors into
    three classes; a prohibition on the calling of special meetings
    by stockholders; advance notice procedures for the nomination of
    candidates to the Board of Directors and stockholder proposals
    to be considered at stockholder meetings; and supermajority
    voting requirements for the amendment of certain provisions of
    the certificate of incorporation and by-laws.

64

Table of Contents   

The
    Continued Threat of Terrorism and Ongoing Military Actions May
    Adversely Affect the Level of Claim Losses We Incur and the
    Value of Our Investment Portfolio   

The continued threat of terrorism, both within the U.S. and
    abroad, ongoing military and other actions and heightened
    security measures in response to these types of threats may
    cause significant volatility in global financial markets and
    result in loss of life, property damage, additional disruptions
    to commerce and reduced economic activity. Some of the assets in
    our investment portfolio may be adversely affected by declines
    in the credit and equity markets and reduced economic activity
    caused by the continued threat of terrorism. We cannot predict
    whether, and the extent to which, companies in which we maintain
    investments may suffer losses as a result of financial,
    commercial or economic disruptions, or how any such disruptions
    might affect the ability of those companies to pay interest or
    principal on their securities or mortgage loans. The continued
    threat of terrorism also could result in increased reinsurance
    prices and reduced insurance coverage and potentially cause us
    to retain more risk than we otherwise would retain if we were
    able to obtain reinsurance at lower prices. Terrorist actions
    also could disrupt our operations centers in the U.S. or abroad.
    In addition, the occurrence of terrorist actions could result in
    higher claims under our insurance policies than anticipated. See
       Difficult Conditions in the Global Capital
    Markets and the Economy Generally May Materially Adversely
    Affect Our Business and Results of Operations and These
    Conditions May Not Improve in the Near Future. 

The
    Occurrence of Events Unanticipated in Our Disaster Recovery
    Systems and Management Continuity Planning Could Impair Our
    Ability to Conduct Business Effectively   

In the event of a disaster such as a natural catastrophe, an
    epidemic, an industrial accident, a blackout, a computer virus,
    a terrorist attack or war, unanticipated problems with our
    disaster recovery systems could have a material adverse impact
    on our ability to conduct business and on our results of
    operations and financial position, particularly if those
    problems affect our computer-based data processing,
    transmission, storage and retrieval systems and destroy valuable
    data. We depend heavily upon computer systems to provide
    reliable service. Despite our implementation of a variety of
    security measures, our computer systems could be subject to
    physical and electronic break-ins, and similar disruptions from
    unauthorized tampering. In addition, in the event that a
    significant number of our managers were unavailable in the event
    of a disaster, our ability to effectively conduct business could
    be severely compromised. These interruptions also may interfere
    with our suppliers  ability to provide goods and services
    and our employees  ability to perform their job
    responsibilities.

Our
    Associates May Take Excessive Risks Which Could Negatively
    Affect Our Financial Condition and Business   

As an insurance enterprise, we are in the business of being paid
    to accept certain risks. The associates who conduct our
    business, including executive officers and other members of
    management, sales managers, investment professionals, product
    managers, sales agents, and other associates, do so in part by
    making decisions and choices that involve exposing us to risk.
    These include decisions such as setting underwriting guidelines
    and standards, product design and pricing, determining what
    assets to purchase for investment and when to sell them, which
    business opportunities to pursue, and other decisions. Although
    we endeavor, in the design and implementation of our
    compensation programs and practices, to avoid giving our
    associates incentives to take excessive risks, associates may
    take such risks regardless of the structure of our compensation
    programs and practices. Similarly, although we employ controls
    and procedures designed to monitor associates  business
    decisions and prevent us from taking excessive risks, there can
    be no assurance that these controls and procedures are or may be
    effective. If our associates take excessive risks, the impact of
    those risks could have a material adverse effect on our
    financial condition or business operations.

Item 1B.      

Unresolved
    Staff Comments   

MetLife has no unresolved comments from the SEC staff regarding
    its periodic or current reports under the Exchange Act.

65

Table of Contents   

Item 2.      

Properties   

In 2006, we signed a lease for approximately
    410,000 rentable square feet on 12 floors in an office
    building in Manhattan, New York. The term of that lease
    commenced during 2008 and continues for 21 years. In August
    2009, we subleased 32,000 rentable square feet of that
    space to a subtenant, which has met our standards of review with
    respect to creditworthiness, and we currently have approximately
    34,000 rentable square feet of space available for
    sublease. We moved certain operations from our Long Island City,
    Queens facility, to the Manhattan space in late 2008, but
    continue to maintain an on-going presence in Long Island City.
    Our lease in Long Island City covers 686,000 rentable
    square feet under a long-term lease arrangement that commenced
    during 2003 and continues for 20 years. In connection with
    the move of certain operations to Manhattan, in late 2008, we
    subleased 330,000 rentable square feet to four subtenants,
    each of which has met our standards of review with respect to
    creditworthiness. To date, with our occupancy and the four
    subtenants we have secured, we are fully subscribed at the Long
    Island City location.

In connection with the 2005 sale of the 200 Park Avenue
    property, we have retained rights to existing signage and are
    leasing space for associates in the property for 20 years
    with optional renewal periods through 2205.

We continue to own 15 other buildings in the U.S. that we
    use in the operation of our business. These buildings contain
    approximately four million rentable square feet and are located
    in the following states: Connecticut, Florida, Illinois,
    Missouri, New Jersey, New York, Ohio, Oklahoma, Pennsylvania and
    Rhode Island. Our computer center in Rensselaer, New York is not
    owned in fee but rather is occupied pursuant to a long-term
    ground lease. We lease space in approximately 700 other
    locations throughout the U.S., and these leased facilities
    consist of 8.9 million rentable square feet. Approximately
    50% of these leases are occupied as sales offices for the
    U.S. Business operations. The balance of space is utilized
    for MetLife Bank and other corporate functions supporting
    business activities. We also own over 70 properties outside the
    U.S., comprised of 10 significant properties and the balance of
    condominium units. We lease approximately 1,200 sites in various
    locations outside the U.S. Of the aforementioned
    international locations, approximately 70 owned sites and
    approximately 700 leased sites were acquired recently in
    connection with the Acquisition. We believe that these
    properties are suitable and adequate for our current and
    anticipated business operations.

We arrange for property and casualty coverage on our properties,
    taking into consideration our risk exposures and the cost and
    availability of commercial coverages, including deductible loss
    levels. In connection with the renewal of those coverages, we
    have arranged $700 million of property insurance, including
    coverage for terrorism, on our real estate portfolio through
    May 15, 2011, its renewal date.

Item 3.      

Legal
    Proceedings   

See Note 16 of the Notes to the Consolidated Financial
    Statements.

Item 4.      

(Removed
    and Reserved)   

66

Table of Contents   

Part II  

Item 5.      

Market
    for Registrant s Common Equity, Related Stockholder Matters
    and Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities   

Issuer
    Common Equity   

MetLife, Inc. s common stock, par value $0.01 per share,
    began trading on the NYSE under the symbol  MET  on
    April 5, 2000.

The following table presents high and low closing prices for the
    common stock on the NYSE for the periods indicated:

At February 18, 2011, there were 90,250 stockholders of record
    of common stock.

The table below presents dividend declaration, record and
    payment dates, as well as per share and aggregate dividend
    amounts, for the common stock:

(1)  

Includes dividends paid on Series B Contingent Convertible
    Junior Participating Non-Cumulative Perpetual Preferred Stock
    (the  Convertible Preferred Stock ). 

Future common stock dividend decisions will be determined by the
    Company s Board of Directors after taking into
    consideration factors such as our current earnings, expected
    medium-term and long-term earnings, financial condition,
    regulatory capital position, and applicable governmental
    regulations and policies. Furthermore, the payment of dividends
    and other distributions to the Company by its insurance
    subsidiaries is regulated by insurance laws and regulations. See
     Business   U.S. Regulation  
    Insurance Regulation,   Management s Discussion
    and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of
    Operations   Liquidity and Capital
    Resources   The Holding Company   Liquidity
    and Capital Sources   Dividends from
    Subsidiaries  and Note 18 of the Notes to the
    Consolidated Financial Statements.

67

Table of Contents   

Issuer
    Purchases of Equity Securities   

Purchases of common stock made by or on behalf of the Company or
    its affiliates during the quarter ended December 31, 2010
    are set forth below:

(1)  

During the periods October 1 through October 31, 2010,
    November 1 through November 30, 2010 and December 1 through
    December 31, 2010, separate account affiliates of the
    Company purchased 1,241 shares, 160 shares and
    987 shares, respectively, of common stock on the open
    market in nondiscretionary transactions to rebalance index
    funds. Except as disclosed above, no shares of common stock were
    repurchased by the Company. 

(2)  

At December 31, 2010, the Company had $1,261 million
    remaining under its common stock repurchase program
    authorizations. In April 2008, the Company s Board of
    Directors authorized an additional $1.0 billion common
    stock repurchase program, which will begin after the completion
    of the January 2008 $1.0 billion common stock repurchase
    program, of which $261 million remained outstanding at
    December 31, 2010. Under these authorizations, the Company
    may purchase its common stock from the MetLife Policyholder
    Trust, in the open market (including pursuant to the terms of a
    pre-set trading plan meeting the requirements of
     Rule 10b5-1 
    under the Exchange Act) and in privately negotiated
    transactions. Whether or not to purchase any common stock and
    the size and timing of any such purchases will be determined in
    the Company s complete discretion. 

See also  Management s Discussion and Analysis of
    Financial Condition and Results of Operations  
    Liquidity and Capital Resources   The
    Company   Liquidity and Capital Uses   Share
    Repurchases  for further information relating to common
    stock repurchases.

68

Table of Contents   

Item 6.      

Selected
    Financial Data   

The following selected financial data has been derived from the
    Company s audited consolidated financial statements. The
    statement of operations data for the years ended
    December 31, 2010, 2009 and 2008, and the balance sheet
    data at December 31, 2010 and 2009 have been derived from
    the Company s audited financial statements included
    elsewhere herein. The statement of operations data for the years
    ended December 31, 2007 and 2006, and the balance sheet
    data at December 31, 2008, 2007 and 2006 have been derived
    from the Company s audited financial statements not
    included herein. The selected financial data set forth below
    should be read in conjunction with  Management s
    Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of
    Operations  and the consolidated financial statements and
    related notes included elsewhere herein.

69

Table of Contents   

70

Table of Contents   

(1)  

On November 1, 2010, the Holding Company acquired ALICO.
    The results of the Acquisition are reflected in the 2010
    selected financial data. See Note 2 of the Notes to the
    Consolidated Financial Statements. 

(2)  

At December 31, 2010, general account assets, long-term
    debt and other liabilities include amounts relating to variable
    interest entities of $11,080 million, $6,902 million
    and $93 million, respectively. 

(3)  

Policyholder liabilities and other policy-related balances
    include future policy benefits, policyholder account balances,
    other policy-related balances, policyholder dividends payable
    and the policyholder dividend obligation. 

(4)  

Return on MetLife, Inc. s common equity is defined as net
    income (loss) available to MetLife, Inc. s common
    shareholders divided by MetLife, Inc. s average common
    stockholders  equity. 

(5)  

For the year ended December 31, 2009, shares related to the
    assumed exercise or issuance of stock-based awards have been
    excluded from the calculation of diluted earnings per common
    share as these assumed shares are anti-dilutive. 

Item 7.      

Management s
    Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of
    Operations   

For purposes of this discussion,  MetLife,  the
     Company,   we,   our  and
     us  refer to MetLife, Inc., a Delaware corporation
    incorporated in 1999 (the  Holding Company ), its
    subsidiaries and affiliates. Following this summary is a
    discussion addressing the consolidated results of operations and
    financial condition of the Company for the periods indicated.
    This discussion should be read in conjunction with  Note
    Regarding Forward Looking Statements,   Risk
    Factors,   Selected Financial Data  and the
    Company s consolidated financial statements included
    elsewhere herein.

This Management s Discussion and Analysis of Financial
    Condition and Results of Operations may contain or incorporate
    by reference information that includes or is based upon
    forward-looking statements within the meaning of the Private
    Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. Forward-looking
    statements give expectations or forecasts of future events.
    These statements can be identified by the fact that they do not
    relate strictly to historical or current facts. They use words
    such as  anticipate,   estimate, 
     expect,   project,   intend, 
     plan,   believe  and other words and terms
    of similar meaning in connection with a discussion of future
    operating or financial performance. In particular, these include
    statements relating to future actions, prospective services or
    products, future performance

71

Table of Contents   

or results of current and anticipated services or products,
    sales efforts, expenses, the outcome of contingencies such as
    legal proceedings, trends in operations and financial results.
    Any or all forward-looking statements may turn out to be wrong.
    Actual results could differ materially from those expressed or
    implied in the forward-looking statements. See  Note
    Regarding Forward-Looking Statements. 

The following discussion includes references to our performance
    measures operating earnings and operating earnings available to
    common shareholders, that are not based on accounting principles
    generally accepted in the United States of America
    ( GAAP ). Operating earnings is the measure of segment
    profit or loss we use to evaluate segment performance and
    allocate resources and, consistent with GAAP accounting guidance
    for segment reporting, is our measure of segment performance.
    Operating earnings is also a measure by which our senior
    management s and many other employees  performance is
    evaluated for the purposes of determining their compensation
    under applicable compensation plans. Operating earnings is
    defined as operating revenues less operating expenses, net of
    income tax. Operating earnings available to common shareholders,
    which is used to evaluate the performance of Banking,
    Corporate   Other, as well as MetLife, is defined as
    operating earnings less preferred stock dividends.

Operating revenues is defined as GAAP revenues (i) less net
    investment gains (losses) and net derivative gains (losses);
    (ii) less amortization of unearned revenue related to net
    investment gains (losses) and net derivative gains (losses);
    (iii) plus scheduled periodic settlement payments on
    derivatives that are hedges of investments but do not qualify
    for hedge accounting treatment; (iv) plus income from
    discontinued real estate operations; (v) less net
    investment income related to contractholder-directed unit-linked
    investments; and (vi) plus, for operating joint ventures
    reported under the equity method of accounting, the
    aforementioned adjustments, those identified in the definition
    of operating expenses and changes in the fair value of hedges of
    operating joint venture liabilities, all net of income tax.

Operating expenses is defined as GAAP expenses (i) less
    changes in policyholder benefits associated with asset value
    fluctuations related to experience-rated contractholder
    liabilities and certain inflation-indexed liabilities;
    (ii) less costs related to business combinations (since
    January 1, 2009) and noncontrolling interests;
    (iii) less amortization of deferred policy acquisition
    costs ( DAC ) and value of business acquired
    ( VOBA ) and changes in the policyholder dividend
    obligation related to net investment gains (losses) and net
    derivative gains (losses); (iv) less interest credited to
    policyholder account balances ( PABs ) related to
    contractholder-directed unit-linked investments; and
    (v) plus scheduled periodic settlement payments on
    derivatives that are hedges of PABs but do not qualify for hedge
    accounting treatment.

In addition, operating revenues and operating expenses do not
    reflect the consolidation of certain securitization entities
    that are variable interest entities ( VIEs ) as
    required under GAAP.

We believe the presentation of operating earnings and operating
    earnings available to common shareholders as we measure it for
    management purposes enhances the understanding of our
    performance by highlighting the results of operations and the
    underlying profitability drivers of our businesses. Operating
    earnings and operating earnings available to common shareholders
    should not be viewed as substitutes for GAAP income (loss) from
    continuing operations, net of income tax. Reconciliations of
    operating earnings and operating earnings available to common
    shareholders to GAAP income (loss) from continuing operations,
    net of income tax, the most directly comparable GAAP measure,
    are included in    Results of Operations. 

In this discussion, we sometimes refer to sales activity for
    various products. These sales statistics do not correspond to
    revenues under GAAP, but are used as relevant measures of
    business activity.

Executive
    Summary  

MetLife is a leading global provider of insurance, annuities and
    employee benefit programs throughout the United States
    ( U.S. ), Japan, Latin America, Asia Pacific, Europe
    and the Middle East. Through its subsidiaries and affiliates,
    MetLife offers life insurance, annuities, auto and homeowners
    insurance, retail banking and other financial services to
    individuals, as well as group insurance and
    retirement   savings products and services to
    corporations and other institutions. MetLife is organized into
    five segments: Insurance Products, Retirement Products,
    Corporate Benefit Funding and Auto   Home
    (collectively,  U.S. Business ) and
    International. The assets and liabilities of American Life
    Insurance Company ( American Life ) and Delaware
    American Life Insurance Company ( DelAm,  together
    with American Life, collectively,  ALICO ) as of
    November 30, 2010 and

72

Table of Contents   

the operating results of ALICO from November 1, 2010 (the
     Acquisition Date ) through November 30, 2010 are
    included in the International segment. In addition, the Company
    reports certain of its results of operations in Banking,
    Corporate   Other, which is comprised of MetLife Bank,
    National Association ( MetLife Bank ) and other
    business activities. For reporting periods beginning in 2011,
    our
     non-U.S. Business 
    results will be presented within two separate segments: Japan
    and Other International Regions.

On the Acquisition Date, the Holding Company completed the
    acquisition of American Life from ALICO Holdings LLC
    ( ALICO Holdings ), a subsidiary of American
    International Group, Inc. ( AIG ), and DelAm from AIG,
    (the  Acquisition ) for a total purchase price of
    $16.4 billion. The business acquired in the Acquisition
    provides consumers and businesses with life insurance, accident
    and health insurance, retirement and wealth management
    solutions. This transaction delivers on our global growth
    strategies, adding significant scale and reach to MetLife s
    international footprint, furthering our diversification in
    geographic mix and product offerings, as well as increasing our
    distribution strength. See Note 2 of the Notes to the
    Consolidated Financial Statements.

As the U.S. and global financial markets continue to
    recover, we have experienced a significant improvement in net
    investment income and favorable changes in net investment and
    net derivative gains (losses). We also continue to experience an
    increase in market share and sales in some of our businesses, in
    part, from a flight to quality in the industry. These positive
    factors were somewhat dampened by the negative impact of general
    economic conditions, including high levels of unemployment, on
    the demand for certain of our products.

(1)  

See definitions of operating revenues and operating expenses for
    the components of such adjustments. 

Year
    Ended December 31, 2010 compared with the Year Ended
    December 31, 2009   

Unless otherwise stated, all amounts discussed below are net of
    income tax.

During the year ended December 31, 2010, MetLife s
    income (loss) from continuing operations, net of income tax
    increased $5.1 billion to a gain of $2.8 billion from
    a loss of $2.3 billion in 2009, of which $2 million in
    losses is from the inclusion of ALICO results for one month in
    2010 and the impact of financing costs for the Acquisition. The
    change was predominantly due to a $4.6 billion favorable
    change in net derivative gains (losses), before income tax, and
    a $2.5 billion favorable change in net investment gains
    (losses), before income tax. Offsetting these favorable
    variances were unfavorable changes in adjustments related to
    continuing operations of $1.3 billion, before income tax,
    and $2.2 billion of income tax, resulting in a total
    favorable variance of $3.6 billion. In addition, operating
    earnings available to common shareholders increased
    $1.5 billion to $3.9 billion in the current year from
    $2.4 billion in the prior year.

The favorable change in net derivative gains (losses) of
    $3.0 billion was primarily driven by net gains on
    freestanding derivatives in the current year compared to net
    losses in the prior year, partially offset by an unfavorable
    change in embedded derivatives from gains in the prior year to
    losses in the current year. The favorable change in freestanding
    derivatives was primarily attributable to market factors,
    including falling long-term and mid-term interest rates, a
    stronger recovery in equity markets in the prior year than the
    current year, equity volatility, which decreased more in the
    prior year as compared to the current year, a strengthening
    U.S. dollar and widening corporate credit spreads in the
    financial services sector. The favorable change in net
    investment gains (losses) of

73

Table of Contents   

$1.6 billion was primarily driven by a decrease in
    impairments and a decrease in the provision for credit losses on
    mortgage loans. These favorable changes in net derivative and
    net investment gains (losses) were partially offset by an
    unfavorable change of $514 million in related adjustments.

The improvement in the financial markets, which began in the
    second quarter of 2009 and continued into 2010, was a key driver
    of the $1.5 billion increase in operating earnings
    available to common shareholders. Such market improvement was
    most evident in higher net investment income and policy fees, as
    well as a decrease in variable annuity guarantee benefit costs.
    These increases were partially offset by an increase in
    amortization of DAC, VOBA and deferred sales inducements
    ( DSI ) as a result of an increase in average separate
    account balances and higher current year gross margins in the
    closed block driven by increased investment yields and the
    impact of dividend scale reductions. The 2010 period also
    includes one month of ALICO results, contributing
    $114 million to the increase in operating earnings. The
    favorable impact of a reduction in discretionary spending
    associated with our enterprise-wide cost reduction and revenue
    enhancement initiative was more than offset by an increase in
    other expenses related to our International business. This
    increase primarily stemmed from the impact of a benefit recorded
    in the prior year related to the pesification in Argentina, as
    well as current year business growth in the segment.

Year
    Ended December 31, 2009 compared with the Year Ended
    December 31, 2008   

Unless otherwise stated, all amounts discussed below are net of
    income tax.

During the year ended December 31, 2009, MetLife s
    income (loss) from continuing operations, net of income tax,
    decreased $5.8 billion to a loss of $2.3 billion from
    income of $3.5 billion in the comparable 2008 period. The
    year over year change is predominantly due to an
    $8.8 billion unfavorable change in net derivative gains
    (losses), before income tax, to losses of $4.9 billion in
    2009 from gains of $3.9 billion in 2008. In addition, there
    was an $808 million unfavorable change in net investment
    gains (losses), before income tax. Offsetting these variances
    were favorable changes in adjustments related to continuing
    operations of $947 million, before income tax, and
    $3.2 billion of income tax, resulting in a total
    unfavorable variance of $5.5 billion. In addition,
    operating earnings available to common shareholders decreased by
    $329 million to $2.4 billion in 2009 from
    $2.7 billion in 2008.

The unfavorable change in net derivative gains (losses) of
    $8.8 billion was primarily driven by losses on freestanding
    derivatives, partially offset by gains on embedded derivatives,
    most of which were associated with variable annuity minimum
    benefit guarantees, and lower losses on fixed maturity
    securities. The unfavorable change in net investment gains
    (losses) of $808 million was primarily driven by an
    increase in impairments. These unfavorable changes in gains
    (losses) were partially offset by a favorable change of
    $947 million in related adjustments.

The positive impact of business growth and favorable mortality
    in several of our businesses was more than offset by a decline
    in net investment income, resulting in a decrease in operating
    earnings of $329 million. The decrease in net investment
    income caused significant declines in the operating earnings of
    many of our businesses, especially the interest spread
    businesses. Also contributing to the decline in operating
    earnings was an increase in net guaranteed annuity benefit costs
    and a charge related to our closed block of business, a specific
    group of participating life policies that were segregated in
    connection with the demutualization of Metropolitan Life
    Insurance Company ( MLIC ). The favorable impact of
    our enterprise-wide cost reduction and revenue enhancement
    initiative, was more than offset by higher pension and
    postretirement benefit costs, driving the increase in other
    expenses. The declines in operating earnings were partially
    offset by a change in amortization related to DAC, DSI and
    unearned revenue.

Consolidated
    Company Outlook   

As a result of the Acquisition, operations outside the
    U.S. are expected to contribute approximately 30% of the
    premiums, fees and other revenues and approximately 40% of
    MetLife s operating earnings in 2011.

74

Table of Contents   

In 2010, general economic conditions improved and interest rates
    remained low throughout the year. In 2011, we expect a
    significant improvement in the operating earnings of the
    Company, driven primarily by the following:

Premiums, fees and other revenues growth in 2011 of
    approximately 30%, of which 27% is directly attributable to the
    Acquisition. The remaining 3% increase is driven by:

Increases in our
     non-U.S. businesses 
    from continuing organic growth throughout our various geographic
    regions;

Higher fees earned on separate accounts, as the equity markets
    continue to improve, thereby increasing the value of those
    separate accounts. In addition, net flows of variable annuities
    are expected to continue to be strong in 2011, which also
    increases the account values upon which these fees are earned;

Increased sales in the pension closeout business, both in the
    U.S. and the United Kingdom ( U.K. ), as we
    expect the demand for these products to return to a more normal
    level in 2011.

Focus on disciplined underwriting. We see no significant changes
    to the underlying trends that drive underwriting results and
    anticipate solid results in 2011.

Focus on expense management. We continue to focus on expense
    control throughout the Company, specifically managing the costs
    associated with the integration of ALICO. We also expect to
    begin realizing cost synergies later in 2011.

Returns on investment portfolio. Although the market
    environment remains challenging, we expect the returns on our
    investment portfolio in 2011, with respect to both income and
    realized gains and losses, will be in line with the results
    achieved in 2010.

More difficult to predict is the impact of potential changes in
    fair value of freestanding and embedded derivatives as even
    relatively small movements in market variables, including
    interest rates, equity levels and volatility, can have a large
    impact on the fair value of derivatives and net derivative gains
    (losses). Additionally, changes in fair value of embedded
    derivatives within certain insurance liabilities may have a
    material impact on net derivative gains (losses) related to the
    inclusion of an adjustment for nonperformance risk.

Industry
    Trends  

Despite improvement in general economic conditions in 2010, we
    continue to be impacted by the unstable global financial and
    economic environment that has been affecting the industry.

Financial and Economic Environment.   Our
    business and results of operations are materially affected by
    conditions in the global capital markets and the economy,
    generally, both in the U.S. and elsewhere around the world.
    The global economy and markets are now recovering from a period
    of significant stress that began in the second half of 2007 and
    substantially increased through the first quarter of 2009. This
    disruption adversely affected the financial services industry,
    in particular. The U.S. economy entered a recession in late
    2007. This recession ended in mid-2009, but the recovery from
    the recession has been below historic averages and the
    unemployment rate is expected to remain high for some time. In
    addition, inflation has fallen over the last several years and
    is expected to remain at low levels for some time. Some
    economists believe that some level of disinflation and deflation
    risk remains in the economy.

Throughout 2008 and continuing in 2009, Congress, the Federal
    Reserve Bank of New York, the Federal Deposit Insurance
    Corporation ( FDIC ), the U.S. Treasury and other
    agencies of the Federal government took a number of increasingly
    aggressive actions (in addition to continuing a series of
    interest rate reductions that began in the second half of
    2007) intended to provide liquidity to financial
    institutions and markets, to avert a loss of investor confidence
    in particular troubled institutions, to prevent or contain the
    spread of the financial crisis and to spur economic growth. Most
    of these programs have run their course or have been
    discontinued. The monetary policy by the Federal Reserve Board
    and the Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection
    Act ( Dodd-Frank ), which was signed by President
    Obama in July 2010, are more likely to be relevant to MetLife,
    Inc. and will significantly change financial regulation in the
    U.S. See    Regulatory Changes.  In
    addition, the oversight body of the Basel Committee on Banking
    Supervision announced in December 2010 increased capital and
    liquidity requirements (commonly referred

75

Table of Contents   

to as  Basel III ) for bank holding companies, such as
    MetLife, Inc. Assuming these requirements are endorsed and
    adopted by the U.S., they are to be phased in beginning
    January 1, 2013. It is possible that even more stringent
    capital and liquidity requirements could be imposed under
    Dodd-Frank and Basel III.

It is not certain what effect the enactment of Dodd-Frank or
    Basel III will have on the financial markets, the
    availability of credit, asset prices and MetLife s
    operations. We cannot predict whether the funds made available
    by the U.S. Federal government and its agencies will be
    enough to continue stabilizing or to further revive the
    financial markets or, if additional amounts are necessary,
    whether Congress will be willing to make the necessary
    appropriations, what the public s sentiment would be
    towards any such appropriations, or what additional requirements
    or conditions might be imposed on the use of any such additional
    funds.

The imposition of additional regulation on large financial
    institutions may have, over time, the effect of supporting some
    aspects of the financial services industry more than others.
    This could adversely affect our competitive position.

Although the disruption in the global financial markets has
    moderated, not all such markets are functioning normally, and
    some remain reliant upon government intervention and liquidity.
    The global recession and disruption of the financial markets has
    also led to concerns over capital markets access and the
    solvency of certain European Union member states, including
    Portugal, Ireland, Italy, Greece and Spain. In response, on
    May 10, 2010, the European Union, the European Central Bank
    and the International Monetary Fund announced a rescue package
    of up to  750 billion, or approximately $1 trillion,
    for European nations in the Eurozone. This rescue package is
    intended to stabilize these economies. The Japanese economy, to
    which we face increased exposure as a result of the Acquisition,
    continues to experience low nominal growth, a deflationary
    environment, and weak consumer spending.

Recent global economic conditions have had and could continue to
    have an adverse effect on the financial results of companies in
    the financial services industry, including MetLife. Such global
    economic conditions, as well as the global financial markets,
    continue to impact our net investment income, our net investment
    and net derivative gains (losses), and the demand for and the
    cost and profitability of certain of our products, including
    variable annuities and guarantee benefits. See
        Results of Operations  and
       Liquidity and Capital Resources. 

Competitive Pressures.   The life insurance
    industry remains highly competitive. The product development and
    product life-cycles have shortened in many product segments,
    leading to more intense competition with respect to product
    features. Larger companies have the ability to invest in brand
    equity, product development, technology and risk management,
    which are among the fundamentals for sustained profitable growth
    in the life insurance industry. In addition, several of the
    industry s products can be quite homogeneous and subject to
    intense price competition. Sufficient scale, financial strength
    and financial flexibility are becoming prerequisites for
    sustainable growth in the life insurance industry. Larger market
    participants tend to have the capacity to invest in additional
    distribution capability and the information technology needed to
    offer the superior customer service demanded by an increasingly
    sophisticated industry client base. We believe that the
    turbulence in financial markets that began in the second half of
    2007, its impact on the capital position of many competitors,
    and subsequent actions by regulators and rating agencies have
    highlighted financial strength as a significant differentiator
    from the perspective of customers and certain distributors. In
    addition, the financial market turbulence and the economic
    recession have led many companies in our industry to re-examine
    the pricing and features of the products they offer and may lead
    to consolidation in the life insurance industry.

Regulatory Changes.   The U.S. life
    insurance industry is regulated at the state level, with some
    products and services also subject to Federal regulation. As
    life insurers introduce new and often more complex products,
    regulators refine capital requirements and introduce new
    reserving standards for the life insurance industry. Regulations
    recently adopted or currently under review can potentially
    impact the statutory reserve and capital requirements of the
    industry. In addition, regulators have undertaken market and
    sales practices reviews of several markets or products,
    including equity-indexed annuities, variable annuities and group
    products. The regulation of the financial services industry in
    the U.S. and internationally has received renewed scrutiny
    as a result of the disruptions in the financial markets in 2008
    and 2009. Significant regulatory reforms have been proposed and
    these or other reforms could be implemented. See
     Business   U.S. Regulation  and
     Business   International Regulation.  We
    cannot predict whether any such reforms will be adopted, the
    form they will take or their effect upon us. We also cannot
    predict how the various government responses to the recent
    financial and economic difficulties will affect the financial
    services and insurance industries or the standing of particular
    companies, including us, within those industries. See
     Business   Governmental

76

Table of Contents   

Responses to Extraordinary Market Conditions,   Risk
    Factors   Our Insurance, Brokerage and Banking
    Businesses Are Heavily Regulated, and Changes in
    Regulation May Reduce Our Profitability and Limit Our
    Growth  and  Risk Factors   Changes in
    U.S. Federal and State Securities Laws and Regulations, and
    State Insurance Regulations Regarding Suitability of Annuity
    Product Sales, May Affect Our Operations and Our
    Profitability.  Until various studies are completed and
    final regulations are promulgated pursuant to Dodd-Frank, the
    full impact of Dodd-Frank on the investments, investment
    activities and insurance and annuity products of the Company
    remain unclear. See  Risk Factors   Various
    Aspects of Dodd-Frank Could Impact Our Business Operations,
    Capital Requirements and Profitability and Limit Our
    Growth.  Under Dodd-Frank, as a large, interconnected bank
    holding company with assets of $50 billion or more, or
    possibly as an otherwise systemically important financial
    company, MetLife, Inc. will be subject to enhanced prudential
    standards imposed on systemically significant financial
    companies. Enhanced standards will be applied to Tier 1 and
    total risk-based capital ( RBC ), liquidity, leverage
    (unless another, similar standard is appropriate for the
    Company), resolution plan and credit exposure reporting,
    concentration limits, and risk management. The so-called
     Volcker Rule  provisions of Dodd-Frank restrict the
    ability of affiliates of insured depository institutions (such
    as MetLife Bank) to engage in proprietary trading or sponsor or
    invest in hedge funds or private equity funds. See  Risk
    Factors   Various Aspects of
     Dodd-Frank 
    Could Impact Our Business Operations, Capital Requirements and
    Profitability and Limit Our Growth. 

Mortgage and Foreclosure-Related Exposures.   In
    2008 MetLife Bank acquired certain assets to enter the forward
    and reverse residential mortgage origination and servicing
    business, including rights to service residential mortgage
    loans. At various times since then, including most recently in
    the third quarter of 2010, MetLife Bank has acquired additional
    residential mortgage loan servicing rights. As an originator and
    servicer of mortgage loans, which are usually sold to an
    investor shortly after origination, MetLife Bank has obligations
    to repurchase loans upon demand by the investor due to
    (i) a determination that material representations made in
    connection with the sale of the loans (relating, for example, to
    the underwriting and origination of the loans) are incorrect or
    (ii) defects in servicing of the loan. MetLife Bank is
    indemnified by the sellers of the acquired assets, for various
    periods depending on the transaction and the nature of the
    claim, for origination and servicing deficiencies that occurred
    prior to MetLife Bank s acquisition, including
    indemnification for any repurchase claims made from investors
    who purchased mortgage loans from the sellers. Substantially all
    mortgage servicing rights ( MSRs ) that were acquired
    by MetLife Bank relate to loans sold to Federal National
    Mortgage Association ( FNMA ) or Federal Home Loan
    Mortgage Corporation ( FHLMC ). Since the 2008
    acquisitions, MetLife Bank has originated and sold mortgages
    primarily to FNMA, FHLMC and Government National Mortgage
    Association ( GNMA ) (collectively, the  Agency
    Investors ) and, to a limited extent, a small number of
    private investors. Currently 99% of MetLife Bank s
    $83 billion servicing portfolio is comprised of products
    sold to Agency Investors. Other than repurchase obligations
    which are subject to indemnification by sellers of acquired
    assets as described above, MetLife Bank s exposure to
    repurchase obligations and losses related to origination
    deficiencies is limited to the approximately $52 billion of
    loans originated by MetLife Bank (all of which have been
    originated since August 2008) and to servicing deficiencies
    after the date of acquisition, and management is satisfied that
    adequate provision has been made in the Company s
    consolidated financial statements for all probable and
    reasonably estimable repurchase obligations and losses.

In light of recent events concerning foreclosure proceedings
    within the industry, MetLife Bank has undertaken a close review
    of its procedures. MetLife Bank verifies the accuracy of
    borrower information included in affidavits filed in foreclosure
    proceedings. We do not believe that MetLife Bank has material
    exposure to potential losses arising from challenges to its
    foreclosure procedures. Like other mortgage servicers, MetLife
    Bank has been the subject of recent inquiries and investigations
    from state attorneys general and banking regulators. See
    Note 16 of the Notes to the Consolidated Financial
    Statements.

Summary
    of Critical Accounting Estimates  

The preparation of financial statements in conformity with GAAP
    requires management to adopt accounting policies and make
    estimates and assumptions that affect amounts reported in the
    consolidated financial statements. The most critical estimates
    include those used in determining:

(i) 

the estimated fair value of investments in the absence of quoted
    market values;

(ii) 

investment impairments;

77

Table of Contents   

(iii) 

the recognition of income on certain investment entities and the
    application of the consolidation rules to certain investments;

(iv) 

the estimated fair value of and accounting for freestanding
    derivatives and the existence and estimated fair value of
    embedded derivatives requiring bifurcation;

(v) 

the capitalization and amortization of DAC and the establishment
    and amortization of VOBA;

(vi) 

the measurement of goodwill and related impairment, if any;

(vii) 

the liability for future policyholder benefits and the
    accounting for reinsurance contracts;

(viii) 

accounting for income taxes and the valuation of deferred tax
    assets;

(ix) 

accounting for employee benefit plans; and

(x) 

the liability for litigation and regulatory matters.

The application of purchase accounting requires the use of
    estimation techniques in determining the estimated fair values
    of assets acquired and liabilities assumed   the most
    significant of which relate to aforementioned critical
    accounting estimates. In applying the Company s accounting
    policies, we make subjective and complex judgments that
    frequently require estimates about matters that are inherently
    uncertain. Many of these policies, estimates and related
    judgments are common in the insurance and financial services
    industries; others are specific to the Company s businesses
    and operations. Actual results could differ from these estimates.

Fair
    Value   

The Company defines fair value as the price that would be
    received to sell an asset or paid to transfer a liability (an
    exit price) in the principal or most advantageous market for the
    asset or liability in an orderly transaction between market
    participants on the measurement date. In many cases, the exit
    price and the transaction (or entry) price will be the same at
    initial recognition. However, in certain cases, the transaction
    price may not represent fair value. The fair value of a
    liability is based on the amount that would be paid to transfer
    a liability to a third party with the same credit standing. It
    requires that fair value be a market-based measurement in which
    the fair value is determined based on a hypothetical transaction
    at the measurement date, considered from the perspective of a
    market participant. When quoted prices are not used to determine
    fair value of an asset, the Company considers three broad
    valuation techniques: (i) the market approach,
    (ii) the income approach, and (iii) the cost approach.
    The Company determines the most appropriate valuation technique
    to use, given what is being measured and the availability of
    sufficient inputs. The Company prioritizes the inputs to fair
    valuation techniques and allows for the use of unobservable
    inputs to the extent that observable inputs are not available.
    The Company categorizes its assets and liabilities measured at
    estimated fair value into a three-level hierarchy, based on the
    priority of the inputs to the respective valuation technique.
    The fair value hierarchy gives the highest priority to quoted
    prices in active markets for identical assets or liabilities
    (Level 1) and the lowest priority to unobservable
    inputs (Level 3). An asset or liability s
    classification within the fair value hierarchy is based on the
    lowest level of input to its valuation. The input levels are as
    follows:

Level 1  

Unadjusted quoted prices in active markets for identical assets
    or liabilities. The Company defines active markets based on
    average trading volume for equity securities. The size of the
    bid/ask spread is used as an indicator of market activity for
    fixed maturity securities.

Level 2  

Quoted prices in markets that are not active or inputs that are
    observable either directly or indirectly. Level 2 inputs
    include quoted prices for similar assets or liabilities other
    than quoted prices in Level 1; quoted prices in markets
    that are not active; or other significant inputs that are
    observable or can be derived principally from or corroborated by
    observable market data for substantially the full term of the
    assets or liabilities.

Level 3  

Unobservable inputs that are supported by little or no market
    activity and are significant to the estimated fair value of the
    assets or liabilities. Unobservable inputs reflect the reporting
    entity s own assumptions about the assumptions that market
    participants would use in pricing the asset or liability.
    Level 3 assets and liabilities include financial
    instruments whose values are determined using pricing models,
    discounted cash flow methodologies, or similar techniques, as
    well as

78

Table of Contents   

instruments for which the determination of estimated fair value
    requires significant management judgment or estimation.

Prior to January 1, 2009, the measurement and disclosures
    of fair value based on exit price excluded certain items such as
    nonfinancial assets and nonfinancial liabilities initially
    measured at estimated fair value in a business combination,
    reporting units measured at estimated fair value in the first
    step of a goodwill impairment test and indefinite-lived
    intangible assets measured at estimated fair value for
    impairment assessment.

In addition, the Company elected the fair value option
    ( FVO ) for certain of its financial instruments to
    better match measurement of assets and liabilities in the
    consolidated statements of operations.

Estimated
    Fair Value of Investments   

The Company s investments in fixed maturity and equity
    securities, investments in trading and other securities, certain
    short-term investments, most mortgage loans
     held-for-sale, 
    and MSRs are reported at their estimated fair value. In
    determining the estimated fair value of these investments,
    various methodologies, assumptions and inputs are utilized, as
    described further below.

When available, the estimated fair value of securities is based
    on quoted prices in active markets that are readily and
    regularly obtainable. Generally, these are the most liquid of
    the Company s securities holdings and valuation of these
    securities does not involve management judgment.

When quoted prices in active markets are not available, the
    determination of estimated fair value is based on market
    standard valuation methodologies. The market standard valuation
    methodologies utilized include: discounted cash flow
    methodologies, matrix pricing or other similar techniques. The
    inputs to these market standard valuation methodologies include,
    but are not limited to: interest rates, credit standing of the
    issuer or counterparty, industry sector of the issuer, coupon
    rate, call provisions, sinking fund requirements, maturity,
    estimated duration and management s assumptions regarding
    liquidity and estimated future cash flows. Accordingly, the
    estimated fair values are based on available market information
    and management s judgments about financial instruments.

The significant inputs to the market standard valuation
    methodologies for certain types of securities with reasonable
    levels of price transparency are inputs that are observable in
    the market or can be derived principally from or corroborated by
    observable market data. Such observable inputs include
    benchmarking prices for similar assets in active, liquid
    markets, quoted prices in markets that are not active and
    observable yields and spreads in the market.

When observable inputs are not available, the market standard
    valuation methodologies for determining the estimated fair value
    of certain types of securities that trade infrequently, and
    therefore have little or no price transparency, rely on inputs
    that are significant to the estimated fair value that are not
    observable in the market or cannot be derived principally from
    or corroborated by observable market data. These unobservable
    inputs can be based in large part on management judgment or
    estimation, and cannot be supported by reference to market
    activity. Even though unobservable, these inputs are based on
    assumptions deemed appropriate given the circumstances and
    consistent with what other market participants would use when
    pricing such securities.

The estimated fair value of residential mortgage loans
     held-for-sale 
    is determined based on observable pricing of residential
    mortgage loans
     held-for-sale 
    with similar characteristics, or observable pricing for
    securities backed by similar types of loans, adjusted to convert
    the securities prices to loan prices. Generally, quoted market
    prices are not available. When observable pricing for similar
    loans or securities that are backed by similar loans are not
    available, the estimated fair values of residential mortgage
    loans
     held-for-sale 
    are determined using independent broker quotations, which is
    intended to approximate the amounts that would be received from
    third parties. Certain other mortgage loans have also been
    designated as
     held-for-sale 
    which are recorded at the lower of amortized cost or estimated
    fair value less expected disposition costs determined on an
    individual loan basis. For these loans, estimated fair value is
    determined using independent broker quotations or, when the loan
    is in foreclosure or otherwise determined to be collateral
    dependent, the estimated fair value of the underlying collateral
    estimated using internal models.

79

Table of Contents   

MSRs, which are recorded in other invested assets, are measured
    at estimated fair value and are either acquired or are generated
    from the sale of originated residential mortgage loans where the
    servicing rights are retained by the Company. The estimated fair
    value of MSRs is principally determined through the use of
    internal discounted cash flow models which utilize various
    assumptions. Valuation inputs and assumptions include generally
    observable items such as type and age of loan, loan interest
    rates, current market interest rates, and certain unobservable
    inputs, including assumptions regarding estimates of discount
    rates, loan prepayments and servicing costs, all of which are
    sensitive to changing markets conditions. The use of different
    valuation assumptions and inputs, as well as assumptions
    relating to the collection of expected cash flows, may have a
    material effect on the estimated fair values of MSRs.

Financial markets are susceptible to severe events evidenced by
    rapid depreciation in asset values accompanied by a reduction in
    asset liquidity. The Company s ability to sell securities,
    or the price ultimately realized for these securities, depends
    upon the demand and liquidity in the market and increases the
    use of judgment in determining the estimated fair value of
    certain securities.

Investment
    Impairments   

One of the significant estimates related to
     available-for-sale 
    securities is the evaluation of investments for impairments. The
    assessment of whether impairments have occurred is based on our
     case-by-case 
    evaluation of the underlying reasons for the decline in
    estimated fair value. The Company s review of its fixed
    maturity and equity securities for impairments includes an
    analysis of the total gross unrealized losses by three
    categories of severity
     and/or  age
    of the gross unrealized loss, as described more fully in
    Note 3 of the Notes to the Consolidated Financial
    Statements. An extended and severe unrealized loss position on a
    fixed maturity security may not have any impact on the ability
    of the issuer to service all scheduled interest and principal
    payments and the Company s evaluation of recoverability of
    all contractual cash flows or the ability to recover an amount
    at least equal to its amortized cost based on the present value
    of the expected future cash flows to be collected. In contrast,
    for certain equity securities, greater weight and consideration
    are given by the Company to a decline in estimated fair value
    and the likelihood such estimated fair value decline will
    recover.

Additionally, we consider a wide range of factors about the
    security issuer and use our best judgment in evaluating the
    cause of the decline in the estimated fair value of the security
    and in assessing the prospects for near-term recovery. Inherent
    in our evaluation of the security are assumptions and estimates
    about the operations of the issuer and its future earnings
    potential. Considerations used by the Company in the impairment
    evaluation process include, but are not limited to:

(i) 

the length of time and the extent to which the estimated fair
    value has been below cost or amortized cost;

(ii) 

the potential for impairments of securities when the issuer is
    experiencing significant financial difficulties;

(iii) 

the potential for impairments in an entire industry sector or
     sub-sector; 

(iv) 

the potential for impairments in certain economically depressed
    geographic locations;

(v) 

the potential for impairments of securities where the issuer,
    series of issuers or industry has suffered a catastrophic type
    of loss or has exhausted natural resources;

(vi) 

with respect to fixed maturity securities, whether the Company
    has the intent to sell or will more likely than not be required
    to sell a particular security before recovery of the decline in
    estimated fair value below cost or amortized cost;

(vii) 

with respect to equity securities, whether the Company s
    ability and intent to hold the security for a period of time
    sufficient to allow for the recovery of its value to an amount
    equal to or greater than cost;

(viii) 

unfavorable changes in projected cash flows on mortgage-backed
    and asset-backed securities ( ABS  and

(ix) 

other subjective factors, including concentrations and
    information obtained from regulators and rating agencies.

80

Table of Contents   

The cost of fixed maturity and equity securities is adjusted for
    the credit loss component of
     Other-Than-Temporary 
    Impairment ( OTTI ) in the period in which the
    determination is made. When an OTTI of a fixed maturity security
    has occurred, the amount of the OTTI recognized in earnings
    depends on whether the Company intends to sell the security or
    more likely than not will be required to sell the security
    before recovery of the decline in estimated fair value below
    amortized cost. If the fixed maturity security meets either of
    these two criteria, the OTTI recognized in earnings is equal to
    the entire difference between the security s amortized cost
    and its estimated fair value at the impairment measurement date.
    For OTTI of fixed maturity securities that do not meet either of
    these two criteria, the net amount recognized in earnings is
    equal to the difference between the amortized cost of the fixed
    maturity security and the present value of projected future cash
    flows expected to be collected from this security ( credit
    loss ). If the estimated fair value is less than the
    present value of projected future cash flows expected to be
    collected, this portion of OTTI related to other than credit
    factors ( noncredit loss ) is recorded as other
    comprehensive income (loss). For equity securities, the carrying
    value of the equity security is impaired to its estimated fair
    value, with a corresponding charge to earnings. The Company does
    not make any adjustments for subsequent recoveries in value.

The determination of the amount of allowances and impairments on
    other invested asset classes is highly subjective and is based
    upon the Company s periodic evaluation and assessment of
    known and inherent risks associated with the respective asset
    class. Such evaluations and assessments are revised as
    conditions change and new information becomes available.

Recognition
    of Income on Certain Investment Entities   

The recognition of income on certain investments (e.g.
    loan-backed securities, including mortgage-backed and ABS,
    certain structured investment transactions, trading and other
    securities) is dependent upon market conditions, which could
    result in prepayments and changes in amounts to be earned.

Application
    of the Consolidation Rules to Certain Investments   

The Company has invested in certain structured transactions that
    are VIEs. These structured transactions include reinsurance
    trusts, asset-backed securitizations, hybrid securities, real
    estate joint ventures, other limited partnership interests and
    limited liability companies. The Company is required to
    consolidate those VIEs for which it is deemed to be the primary
    beneficiary. The accounting rules for the determination of when
    an entity is a VIE and when to consolidate a VIE are complex.
    The determination of the VIE s primary beneficiary requires
    an evaluation of the contractual and implied rights and
    obligations associated with each party s relationship with
    or involvement in the entity, an estimate of the entity s
    expected losses and expected residual returns and the allocation
    of such estimates to each party involved in the entity. The
    Company generally uses a qualitative approach to determine
    whether it is the primary beneficiary.

For most VIEs, the entity that has both the ability to direct
    the most significant activities of the VIE and the obligation to
    absorb losses or receive benefits that could be significant to
    the VIE is considered the primary beneficiary. However, for VIEs
    that are investment companies or apply measurement principles
    consistent with those utilized by investment companies, the
    primary beneficiary is based on a risks and rewards model and is
    defined as the entity that will absorb a majority of a
    VIE s expected losses, receive a majority of a VIE s
    expected residual returns if no single entity absorbs a majority
    of expected losses, or both. The Company reassesses its
    involvement with VIEs on a quarterly basis. The use of different
    methodologies, assumptions and inputs in the determination of
    the primary beneficiary could have a material effect on the
    amounts presented within the consolidated financial statements.

Derivative
    Financial Instruments   

The Company enters into freestanding derivative transactions
    including swaps, forwards, futures and option contracts to
    manage various risks relating to its ongoing business
    operations. To a lesser extent, the Company uses credit
    derivatives, such as credit default swaps, to synthetically
    replicate investment risks and returns which are not readily
    available in the cash market.

81

Table of Contents   

The estimated fair value of derivatives is determined through
    the use of quoted market prices for exchange-traded derivatives
    and interest forwards to sell certain to-be-announced securities
    or through the use of pricing models for
     over-the-counter 
    ( OTC ) derivatives. The determination of estimated
    fair value, when quoted market values are not available, is
    based on market standard valuation methodologies and inputs that
    are assumed to be consistent with what other market participants
    would use when pricing the instruments. Derivative valuations
    can be affected by changes in interest rates, foreign currency
    exchange rates, financial indices, credit spreads, default risk
    (including the counterparties to the contract), volatility,
    liquidity and changes in estimates and assumptions used in the
    pricing models. See Note 5 of the Notes to the Consolidated
    Financial Statements for additional details on significant
    inputs into the OTC derivative pricing models and credit risk
    adjustment.

The accounting for derivatives is complex and interpretations of
    the primary accounting guidance continue to evolve in practice.
    Judgment is applied in determining the availability and
    application of hedge accounting designations and the appropriate
    accounting treatment under such accounting guidance. If it was
    determined that hedge accounting designations were not
    appropriately applied, reported net income could be materially
    affected. Differences in judgment as to the availability and
    application of hedge accounting designations and the appropriate
    accounting treatment may result in a differing impact on the
    consolidated financial statements of the Company from that
    previously reported. Assessments of hedge effectiveness and
    measurements of ineffectiveness of hedging relationships are
    also subject to interpretations and estimations and different
    interpretations or estimates may have a material effect on the
    amount reported in net income.

Embedded
    Derivatives   

The Company issues certain variable annuity products with
    guaranteed minimum benefits. These include guaranteed minimum
    withdrawal benefits ( GMWB ), guaranteed minimum
    accumulation benefits ( GMAB ), and certain guaranteed
    minimum income benefits ( GMIB ). GMWB, GMAB and
    certain GMIB are embedded derivatives, which are measured at
    estimated fair value separately from the host variable annuity
    product, with changes in estimated fair value reported in net
    derivative gains (losses).

The estimated fair values of these embedded derivatives are
    determined based on the present value of projected future
    benefits minus the present value of projected future fees. The
    projections of future benefits and future fees require capital
    market and actuarial assumptions including expectations
    concerning policyholder behavior. A risk neutral valuation
    methodology is used under which the cash flows from the
    guarantees are projected under multiple capital market scenarios
    using observable risk free rates. The valuation of these
    embedded derivatives also includes an adjustment for the
    Company s nonperformance risk and risk margins for
    non-capital market inputs. The nonperformance risk adjustment is
    determined by taking into consideration publicly available
    information relating to spreads in the secondary market for the
    Holding Company s debt, including related credit default
    swaps. These observable spreads are then adjusted, as necessary,
    to reflect the priority of these liabilities and the claims
    paying ability of the issuing insurance subsidiaries compared to
    the Holding Company. Risk margins are established to capture the
    non-capital market risks of the instrument which represent the
    additional compensation a market participant would require to
    assume the risks related to the uncertainties of such actuarial
    assumptions as annuitization, premium persistency, partial
    withdrawal and surrenders. The establishment of risk margins
    requires the use of significant management judgment.

The accounting for embedded derivatives is complex and
    interpretations of the primary accounting standards continue to
    evolve in practice. If interpretations change, there is a risk
    that features previously not bifurcated may require bifurcation
    and reporting at estimated fair value in the consolidated
    financial statements and respective changes in estimated fair
    value could materially affect net income.

These guaranteed minimum benefits may be more costly than
    expected in volatile or declining equity markets. Market
    conditions including, but not limited to, changes in interest
    rates, equity indices, market volatility and foreign currency
    exchange rates, changes in the Company s nonperformance
    risk, variations in actuarial assumptions regarding policyholder
    behavior, mortality and risk margins related to non-capital
    market inputs may result in significant fluctuations in the
    estimated fair value of the guarantees that could materially
    affect net income.

82

Table of Contents   

The Company ceded the risk associated with certain of the GMIB
    and GMAB described in the preceding paragraphs. The value of the
    embedded derivatives on the ceded risk is determined using a
    methodology consistent with that described previously for the
    guarantees directly written by the Company.

As part of its regular review of critical accounting estimates,
    the Company periodically assesses inputs for estimating
    nonperformance risk in fair value measurements. During the
    second quarter of 2010, the Company completed a study that
    aggregated and evaluated data, including historical recovery
    rates of insurance companies as well as policyholder behavior
    observed over the past two years as the recent financial crisis
    evolved. As a result, at the end of the second quarter of 2010,
    the Company refined the manner in which its insurance
    subsidiaries incorporate expected recovery rates into the
    nonperformance risk adjustment for purposes of estimating the
    fair value of investment-type contracts and embedded derivatives
    within insurance contracts. The refinement impacted the
    Company s income from continuing operations, net of income
    tax, with no effect on operating earnings.

As described above, the valuation of variable annuity guarantees
    accounted for as embedded derivatives includes an adjustment for
    the Company s nonperformance risk, which is subject to
    variability. The table below illustrates the impact that a range
    of reasonably likely variances in credit spreads would have on
    the Company s consolidated balance sheet, excluding the
    effect of income tax. Changes in the carrying values of PABs
    would be reported in net investment gains (losses) and changes
    in the carrying value of DAC and VOBA would be reported in other
    expenses. However, these estimated effects do not take into
    account potential changes in other variables, such as equity
    price levels and market volatility, that can also contribute
    significantly to changes in carrying values. Therefore, the
    table does not necessarily reflect the ultimate impact on the
    consolidated financial statements under the credit spread
    variance scenarios presented below.

In determining the ranges, the Company has considered current
    market conditions as well as the market level of spreads that
    can reasonably be anticipated over the near term. The ranges do
    not reflect extreme market conditions experienced during the
    2008 and 2009 economic crisis as the Company does not consider
    those to be reasonably likely events in the near future.

The estimated fair value of the embedded equity and bond indexed
    derivatives contained in certain funding agreements is
    determined using market standard swap valuation models and
    observable market inputs, including an adjustment for the
    Company s nonperformance risk that takes into consideration
    publicly available information relating to the Company s
    debt, as well as its claims paying ability. Changes in equity
    and bond indices, interest rates and the Company s credit
    standing may result in significant fluctuations in estimated the
    fair value of these embedded derivatives that could materially
    affect net income.

Deferred
    Policy Acquisition Costs and Value of Business
    Acquired   

The Company incurs significant costs in connection with
    acquiring new and renewal insurance business. Costs that vary
    with and relate to the production of new business are deferred
    as DAC. Such costs consist principally of commissions and agency
    and policy issuance expenses. VOBA is an intangible asset that
    represents the excess of book value over the estimated fair
    value of acquired insurance, annuity, and investment-type
    contracts in-force at the acquisition date. The estimated fair
    value of the acquired liabilities is based on actuarially
    determined projections, by each block of business, of future
    policy and contract charges, premiums, mortality and morbidity,
    separate account performance, surrenders, operating expenses,
    investment returns, nonperformance risk adjustment and other
    factors. Actual experience on the purchased business may vary
    from these projections. The recovery of DAC and VOBA is
    dependent upon the future profitability of the related business.
    DAC and VOBA are aggregated in the consolidated financial
    statements for reporting purposes.

83

Table of Contents   

Note 1 of the Notes to the Consolidated Financial
    Statements describes the Company s accounting policy
    relating to DAC and VOBA amortization for various types of
    contracts.

Separate account rates of return on variable universal life
    contracts and variable deferred annuity contracts affect
    in-force account balances on such contracts each reporting
    period which can result in significant fluctuations in
    amortization of DAC and VOBA. The Company s practice to
    determine the impact of gross profits resulting from returns on
    separate accounts assumes that long-term appreciation in equity
    markets is not changed by short-term market fluctuations, but is
    only changed when sustained interim deviations are expected. The
    Company monitors these events and only changes the assumption
    when its long-term expectation changes. The effect of an
    increase/(decrease) by 100 basis points in the assumed
    future rate of return is reasonably likely to result in a
    decrease/(increase) in the DAC and VOBA amortization of
    approximately $128 million with an offset to the
    Company s unearned revenue liability of approximately
    $19 million for this factor.

The Company also periodically reviews other long-term
    assumptions underlying the projections of estimated gross
    margins and profits. These include investment returns,
    policyholder dividend scales, interest crediting rates,
    mortality, persistency, and expenses to administer business. We
    annually update assumptions used in the calculation of estimated
    gross margins and profits which may have significantly changed.
    If the update of assumptions causes expected future gross
    margins and profits to increase, DAC and VOBA amortization will
    decrease, resulting in a current period increase to earnings.
    The opposite result occurs when the assumption update causes
    expected future gross margins and profits to decrease.

The Company s most significant assumption updates resulting
    in a change to expected future gross margins and profits and the
    amortization of DAC and VOBA were due to revisions to expected
    future investment returns, expenses, in-force or persistency
    assumptions and policyholder dividends on contracts included
    within the Insurance Products and Retirement Products segments.
    The Company expects these assumptions to be the ones most
    reasonably likely to cause significant changes in the future.
    Changes in these assumptions can be offsetting and the Company
    is unable to predict their movement or offsetting impact over
    time.

Note 6 of the Notes to the Consolidated Financial
    Statements provides a rollforward of DAC and VOBA for the
    Company for each of the years ended December 31, 2010, 2009
    and 2008, as well as a breakdown of DAC and VOBA by segment and
    reporting unit at December 31, 2010 and 2009.

At December 31, 2010, 2009 and 2008, DAC and VOBA for the
    Company was $27.3 billion, $19.3 billion and
    $20.1 million, respectively. The DAC and VOBA balance
    increased significantly as a result of the Acquisition, which
    contributed $8.9 billion to the balance at
    December 31, 2010. Approximately 55%, of the Company s
    DAC and VOBA was associated with the Insurance Products and
    Retirement Products segments at December 31, 2010. At
    December 31, 2010, 2009 and 2008, DAC and VOBA for these
    segments was $14.9 billion, $16.1 billion and
    $17.4 billion, respectively. Amortization of DAC and VOBA
    associated with the variable and universal life and the
    annuities contracts within the Insurance Products and Retirement
    Products segments is significantly impacted by movements in
    equity markets. The following chart illustrates the effect on
    DAC and VOBA within the Company s U.S. Business of
    changing each of the respective assumptions, as well as updating
    estimated gross margins or profits with actual gross margins or
    profits during the years ended December 31, 2010, 2009 and
    2008. Increases (decreases) in DAC and VOBA balances, as
    presented below, resulted in a corresponding decrease (increase)
    in amortization.

84

Table of Contents   

The following represents significant items contributing to the
    changes to DAC and VOBA amortization in 2010:

Changes in net investment gains (losses) resulted in the
    following changes in DAC and VOBA amortization:

Actual gross profits increased as a result of a decrease in
    liabilities associated with guarantee obligations on variable
    annuities, resulting in an increase of DAC and VOBA amortization
    of $197 million, excluding the impact from the
    Company s nonperformance risk and risk margins, which are
    described below. This increase in actual gross profits was
    partially offset by freestanding derivative losses associated
    with the hedging of such guarantee obligations, which resulted
    in a decrease in DAC and VOBA amortization of $88 million.

The narrowing of the Company s nonperformance risk
    adjustment increased the valuation of guarantee liabilities,
    decreased actual gross profits and decreased DAC and VOBA
    amortization by $96 million. In addition, higher risk
    margins which increased the guarantee liability valuations,
    decreased actual gross profits and decreased DAC and VOBA
    amortization by $18 million.

The remainder of the impact of net investment gains (losses),
    which increased DAC amortization by $129 million, was
    primarily attributable to current period investment activities.

Included in policyholder dividends and other was an increase in
    DAC and VOBA amortization of $42 million as a result of
    changes to long-term assumptions. In addition, amortization
    increased by $39 million as a result of favorable gross
    margin variances. The remainder of the increase was due to
    various immaterial items.

The following represents significant items contributing to the
    changes to DAC and VOBA amortization in 2009:

Actual gross profits decreased as a result of increased
    investment losses from the portfolios associated with the
    hedging of guaranteed insurance obligations on variable
    annuities, resulting in a decrease of DAC and VOBA amortization
    of $141 million.

Changes in net investment gains (losses) resulted in the
    following changes in DAC and VOBA amortization:

Actual gross profits increased as a result of a decrease in
    liabilities associated with guarantee obligations on variable
    annuities, resulting in an increase of DAC and VOBA amortization
    of $995 million, excluding the impact from the
    Company s nonperformance risk and risk margins, which are
    described below. This increase in actual gross profits was
    partially offset by freestanding derivative losses associated
    with the hedging of such guarantee obligations, which resulted
    in a decrease in DAC and VOBA amortization of $636 million.

The narrowing of the Company s nonperformance risk
    adjustment increased the valuation of guarantee liabilities,
    decreased actual gross profits and decreased DAC and VOBA
    amortization by $607 million. This was partially offset by
    lower risk margins which decreased the guarantee liability
    valuations, increased actual gross profits and increased DAC and
    VOBA amortization by $20 million.

The remainder of the impact of net investment gains (losses),
    which decreased DAC amortization by $484 million, was
    primarily attributable to current period investment activities.

Included in policyholder dividends and other was a decrease in
    DAC and VOBA amortization of $90 million as a result of
    changes to long-term assumptions. The remainder of the decrease
    was due to various immaterial items.

The following represents significant items contributing to the
    changes in DAC and VOBA amortization in 2008:

The decrease in equity markets during the year significantly
    lowered separate account balances which led to a significant
    reduction in expected future gross profits on variable universal
    life contracts and variable deferred annuity contracts resulting
    in an increase of $708 million in DAC and VOBA amortization.

85

Table of Contents   

Changes in net investment gains (losses) resulted in the
    following changes in DAC and VOBA amortization:

Actual gross profits decreased as a result of an increase in
    liabilities associated with guarantee obligations on variable
    annuities resulting in a reduction of DAC and VOBA amortization
    of $1,047 million. This decrease in actual gross profits
    was mitigated by freestanding derivative gains associated with
    the hedging of such guarantee obligations which resulted in an
    increase in actual gross profits and an increase in DAC and VOBA
    amortization of $625 million.

The widening of the Company s nonperformance risk
    adjustment decreased the valuation of guarantee liabilities,
    increased actual gross profits and increased DAC and VOBA
    amortization by $739 million. This was partially offset by
    higher risk margins which increased the guarantee liability
    valuations, decreased actual gross profits and decreased DAC and
    VOBA amortization by $100 million.

Reductions in both actual and expected cumulative earnings of
    the closed block resulting from recent experience in the closed
    block combined with changes in expected dividend scales resulted
    in an increase in closed block DAC amortization of
    $195 million, $175 million of which was related to net
    investment gains (losses).

The remainder of the impact of net investment gains (losses) on
    DAC amortization of $129 million was attributable to
    numerous immaterial items.

Increases in DAC and VOBA amortization in 2008 resulting from
    changes in assumptions related to in-force/persistency of
    $159 million were driven by higher than anticipated
    mortality and lower than anticipated premium persistency during
    2008.

The Company s DAC and VOBA balance is also impacted by
    unrealized investment gains (losses) and the amount of
    amortization which would have been recognized if such gains and
    losses had been recognized. The increase in unrealized
    investment gains decreased the DAC and VOBA balance by
    $1.4 billion in 2010. The decrease in unrealized investment
    losses decreased the DAC and VOBA balance by $2.8 billion
    in 2009, whereas the increase in unrealized investment losses
    increased the DAC and VOBA balance by $3.4 billion in 2008.
    Notes 3 and 6 of the Notes to the Consolidated Financial
    Statements include the DAC and VOBA offset to unrealized
    investment losses.

Goodwill   

Goodwill is the excess of cost over the estimated fair value of
    net assets acquired. Goodwill is not amortized but is tested for
    impairment at least annually or more frequently if events or
    circumstances, such as adverse changes in the business climate,
    indicate that there may be justification for conducting an
    interim test.

Impairment testing is performed using the fair value approach,
    which requires the use of estimates and judgment, at the
     reporting unit  level. A reporting unit is the
    operating segment or a business one level below the operating
    segment, if discrete financial information is prepared and
    regularly reviewed by management at that level.

For purposes of goodwill impairment testing, if the carrying
    value of a reporting unit exceeds its estimated fair value,
    there might be an indication of impairment. In such instances,
    the implied fair value of the goodwill is determined in the same
    manner as the amount of goodwill that would be determined in a
    business acquisition. The excess of the carrying value of
    goodwill over the implied fair value of goodwill would be
    recognized as an impairment and recorded as a charge against net
    income.

The key inputs, judgments and assumptions necessary in
    determining estimated fair value of the reporting units include
    projected operating earnings, current book value (with and
    without accumulated other comprehensive income), the level of
    economic capital required to support the mix of business,
    long-term growth rates, comparative market multiples, the
    account value of in-force business, projections of new and
    renewal business, as well as margins on such business, the level
    of interest rates, credit spreads, equity market levels, and the
    discount rate that we believe is appropriate for the respective
    reporting unit. The estimated fair values of the retirement
    products and individual life reporting units are particularly
    sensitive to the equity market levels.

86

Table of Contents   

We apply significant judgment when determining the estimated
    fair value of our reporting units and when assessing the
    relationship of market capitalization to the aggregate estimated
    fair value of our reporting units. The valuation methodologies
    utilized are subject to key judgments and assumptions that are
    sensitive to change. Estimates of fair value are inherently
    uncertain and represent only management s reasonable
    expectation regarding future developments. These estimates and
    the judgments and assumptions upon which the estimates are based
    will, in all likelihood, differ in some respects from actual
    future results. Declines in the estimated fair value of our
    reporting units could result in goodwill impairments in future
    periods which could materially adversely affect our results of
    operations or financial position.

On an ongoing basis, we evaluate potential triggering events
    that may affect the estimated fair value of our reporting units
    to assess whether any goodwill impairment exists. Deteriorating
    or adverse market conditions for certain reporting units may
    have a significant impact on the estimated fair value of these
    reporting units and could result in future impairments of
    goodwill.

Liability
    for Future Policy Benefits   

The Company establishes liabilities for amounts payable under
    insurance policies, including traditional life insurance,
    traditional annuities, certain accident and health, and
    non-medical health insurance. Generally, amounts are payable
    over an extended period of time and related liabilities are
    calculated as the present value of future expected benefits to
    be paid reduced by the present value of future expected
    premiums. Such liabilities are established based on methods and
    underlying assumptions in accordance with GAAP and applicable
    actuarial standards. Principal assumptions used in the
    establishment of liabilities for future policy benefits are
    mortality, morbidity, policy lapse, renewal, retirement,
    disability incidence, disability terminations, investment
    returns, inflation, expenses and other contingent events as
    appropriate to the respective product type and geographical
    area. These assumptions are established at the time the policy
    is issued and are intended to estimate the experience for the
    period the policy benefits are payable. Utilizing these
    assumptions, liabilities are established on a block of business
    basis. If experience is less favorable than assumptions,
    additional liabilities may be required, resulting in a charge to
    policyholder benefits and claims.

Future policy benefit liabilities for disabled lives are
    estimated using the present value of benefits method and
    experience assumptions as to claim terminations, expenses and
    interest.

Liabilities for unpaid claims and claim expenses for property
    and casualty insurance are included in future policyholder
    benefits and represent the amount estimated for claims that have
    been reported but not settled and claims incurred but not
    reported. Other policy-related balances include claims that have
    been reported but not settled and claims incurred but not
    reported on life and non-medical health insurance. Liabilities
    for unpaid claims are estimated based upon the Company s
    historical experience and other actuarial assumptions that
    consider the effects of current developments, anticipated trends
    and risk management programs, reduced for anticipated salvage
    and subrogation.

Future policy benefit liabilities for minimum death and income
    benefit guarantees relating to certain annuity contracts and
    secondary and
     paid-up 
    guarantees relating to certain life policies are based on
    estimates of the expected value of benefits in excess of the
    projected account balance and recognizing the excess ratably
    over the accumulation period based on total expected
    assessments. Liabilities for universal and variable life
    secondary guarantees and
     paid-up 
    guarantees are determined by estimating the expected value of
    death benefits payable when the account balance is projected to
    be zero and recognizing those benefits ratably over the
    accumulation period based on total expected assessments. The
    assumptions used in estimating these liabilities are consistent
    with those used for amortizing DAC, and are thus subject to the
    same variability and risk. The assumptions of investment
    performance and volatility for variable products are consistent
    with historical experience of the appropriate underlying equity
    index, such as the Standard   Poor s Ratings
    Services ( S P ) 500 Index.

The Company periodically reviews its estimates of actuarial
    liabilities for future policy benefits and compares them with
    its actual experience. Differences between actual experience and
    the assumptions used in pricing of these policies and guarantees
    and in the establishment of the related liabilities result in
    variances in profit and could result in losses.

87

Table of Contents   

Reinsurance   

The Company enters into reinsurance agreements primarily as a
    purchaser of reinsurance for its various insurance products and
    also as a provider of reinsurance for some insurance products
    issued by third parties. Accounting for reinsurance requires
    extensive use of assumptions and estimates, particularly related
    to the future performance of the underlying business and the
    potential impact of counterparty credit risks. The Company
    periodically reviews actual and anticipated experience compared
    to the aforementioned assumptions used to establish assets and
    liabilities relating to ceded and assumed reinsurance and
    evaluates the financial strength of counterparties to its
    reinsurance agreements using criteria similar to that evaluated
    in the security impairment process discussed previously.
    Additionally, for each of its reinsurance agreements, the
    Company determines whether the agreement provides
    indemnification against loss or liability relating to insurance
    risk, in accordance with applicable accounting standards. The
    Company reviews all contractual features, particularly those
    that may limit the amount of insurance risk to which the
    reinsurer is subject or features that delay the timely
    reimbursement of claims. If the Company determines that a
    reinsurance agreement does not expose the reinsurer to a
    reasonable possibility of a significant loss from insurance
    risk, the Company records the agreement using the deposit method
    of accounting.

Income
    Taxes   

Income taxes represent the net amount of income taxes that the
    Company expects to pay to or receive from various taxing
    jurisdictions in connection with its operations. The Company
    provides for federal, state and foreign income taxes currently
    payable, as well as those deferred due to temporary differences
    between the financial reporting and tax bases of assets and
    liabilities. The Company s accounting for income taxes
    represents management s best estimate of various events and
    transactions.

Deferred tax assets and liabilities resulting from temporary
    differences between the financial reporting and tax bases of
    assets and liabilities are measured at the balance sheet date
    using enacted tax rates expected to apply to taxable income in
    the years the temporary differences are expected to reverse.

For U.S. federal income tax purposes, the Company
    anticipates making an election under the Internal Revenue Code
    Section 338 as it relates to the Acquisition. As such, the
    tax basis in the acquired assets and liabilities is adjusted as
    of the Acquisition Date resulting in a change to the related
    deferred income taxes.

The realization of deferred tax assets depends upon the
    existence of sufficient taxable income within the carryback or
    carryforward periods under the tax law in the applicable tax
    jurisdiction. Valuation allowances are established when
    management determines, based on available information, that it
    is more likely than not that deferred income tax assets will not
    be realized. Factors in management s determination consider
    the performance of the business including the ability to
    generate capital gains. Significant judgment is required in
    determining whether valuation allowances should be established,
    as well as the amount of such allowances. When making such
    determination, consideration is given to, among other things,
    the following:

(i) 

future taxable income exclusive of reversing temporary
    differences and carryforwards;

(ii) 

future reversals of existing taxable temporary differences;

(iii) 

taxable income in prior carryback years; and

(iv) 

tax planning strategies.

The Company determines whether it is more likely than not that a
    tax position will be sustained upon examination by the
    appropriate taxing authorities before any part of the benefit is
    recorded in the financial statements. A tax position is measured
    at the largest amount of benefit that is greater than
    50 percent likely of being realized upon settlement. The
    Company may be required to change its provision for income taxes
    when the ultimate deductibility of certain items is challenged
    by taxing authorities or when estimates used in determining
    valuation allowances on deferred tax assets significantly
    change, or when receipt of new information indicates the need
    for adjustment in valuation allowances. Additionally, future
    events, such as changes in tax laws, tax regulations, or
    interpretations of such laws or regulations, could have an
    impact on the provision for income tax and the effective tax
    rate. Any such changes could significantly affect the amounts
    reported in the consolidated financial statements in the year
    these changes occur.

88

Table of Contents   

Employee
    Benefit Plans   

Certain subsidiaries of the Holding Company sponsor
     and/or 
    administer pension and other postretirement benefit plans
    covering employees who meet specified eligibility requirements.
    The obligations and expenses associated with these plans require
    an extensive use of assumptions such as the discount rate,
    expected rate of return on plan assets, rate of future
    compensation increases, healthcare cost trend rates, as well as
    assumptions regarding participant demographics such as rate and
    age of retirements, withdrawal rates and mortality. In
    consultation with our external consulting actuarial firms, we
    determine these assumptions based upon a variety of factors such
    as historical performance of the plan and its assets, currently
    available market and industry data, and expected benefit payout
    streams. The assumptions used may differ materially from actual
    results due to, among other factors, changing market and
    economic conditions and changes in participant demographics.
    These differences may have a significant effect on the
    Company s consolidated financial statements and liquidity.

Litigation
    Contingencies   

The Company is a party to a number of legal actions and is
    involved in a number of regulatory investigations. Given the
    inherent unpredictability of these matters, it is difficult to
    estimate the impact on the Company s financial position.
    Liabilities are established when it is probable that a loss has
    been incurred and the amount of the loss can be reasonably
    estimated. Liabilities related to certain lawsuits, including
    the Company s asbestos-related liability, are especially
    difficult to estimate due to the limitation of available data
    and uncertainty regarding numerous variables that can affect
    liability estimates. The data and variables that impact the
    assumptions used to estimate the Company s asbestos-related
    liability include the number of future claims, the cost to
    resolve claims, the disease mix and severity of disease in
    pending and future claims, the impact of the number of new
    claims filed in a particular jurisdiction and variations in the
    law in the jurisdictions in which claims are filed, the possible
    impact of tort reform efforts, the willingness of courts to
    allow plaintiffs to pursue claims against the Company when
    exposure to asbestos took place after the dangers of asbestos
    exposure were well known, and the impact of any possible future
    adverse verdicts and their amounts. On a quarterly and annual
    basis, the Company reviews relevant information with respect to
    liabilities for litigation, regulatory investigations and
    litigation-related contingencies to be reflected in the
    Company s consolidated financial statements. It is possible
    that an adverse outcome in certain of the Company s
    litigation and regulatory investigations, including
    asbestos-related cases, or the use of different assumptions in
    the determination of amounts recorded could have a material
    effect upon the Company s consolidated net income or cash
    flows in particular quarterly or annual periods.

Economic
    Capital  

Economic capital is an internally developed risk capital model,
    the purpose of which is to measure the risk in the business and
    to provide a basis upon which capital is deployed. The economic
    capital model accounts for the unique and specific nature of the
    risks inherent in our businesses. As a part of the economic
    capital process, a portion of net investment income is credited
    to the segments based on the level of allocated equity. This is
    in contrast to the standardized regulatory RBC formula, which is
    not as refined in its risk calculations with respect to the
    nuances of our businesses.

Acquisitions
    and Dispositions  

See Note 2 of the Notes to the Consolidated Financial
    Statements.

Results
    of Operations  

Year
    Ended December 31, 2010 compared with the Year Ended
    December 31, 2009   

We have experienced growth and an increase in market share in
    several of our businesses, which, together with improved overall
    market conditions compared to conditions a year ago, positively
    impacted our results most significantly through increased net
    cash flows, improved yields on our investment portfolio and
    increased policy fee income. Sales of our domestic annuity
    products were up 14%, driven by an increase in variable annuity
    sales compared with the prior year. We benefited in 2010 from
    strong sales of structured settlement products. Market
    penetration continues in our pension closeout business in the
    U.K.; however, although improving, our domestic

89

Table of Contents   

pension closeout business has been adversely impacted by a
    combination of poor equity returns and lower interest rates.
    High levels of unemployment continue to depress growth across
    our group insurance businesses due to lower covered payrolls.
    While we experienced growth in our group life business, sales of
    non-medical health and individual life products declined. Sales
    of new homeowner and auto policies increased 11% and 4%,
    respectively, as the housing and automobile markets have
    improved. We experienced a 30% increase in sales of retirement
    and savings products abroad. During 2010, mortgage refinancing
    activity continued to return to more moderate levels compared to
    the unusually high levels experienced in 2009.

Unless otherwise stated, all amounts discussed below are net of
    income tax.

During the year ended December 31, 2010, income (loss) from
    continuing operations, net of income tax increased
    $5.1 billion to a gain of $2.8 billion from a loss of
    $2.3 billion in 2009, of which $2 million in losses
    was from the inclusion of one month of ALICO results in 2010.
    The change was predominantly due to a $3.0 billion
    favorable change in net derivative gains (losses) and a
    $1.6 billion favorable change in net investment gains
    (losses). Offsetting these favorable variances totaling
    $4.6 billion were unfavorable changes in adjustments
    related to net derivative and net investment gains (losses) of
    $514 million, net of income tax, principally associated
    with DAC and

90

Table of Contents   

VOBA amortization, resulting in a total favorable variance
    related to net derivative and net investment gains (losses), net
    of related adjustments and income tax, of $4.1 billion.

We manage our investment portfolio using disciplined
    Asset/Liability Management ( ALM ) principles,
    focusing on cash flow and duration to support our current and
    future liabilities. Our intent is to match the timing and amount
    of liability cash outflows with invested assets that have cash
    inflows of comparable timing and amount, while optimizing, net
    of income tax, risk-adjusted net investment income and
    risk-adjusted total return. Our investment portfolio is heavily
    weighted toward fixed income investments, with over 80% of our
    portfolio invested in fixed maturity securities and mortgage
    loans. These securities and loans have varying maturities and
    other characteristics which cause them to be generally well
    suited for matching the cash flow and duration of insurance
    liabilities. Other invested asset classes including, but not
    limited to, equity securities, other limited partnership
    interests and real estate and real estate joint ventures,
    provide additional diversification and opportunity for long-term
    yield enhancement in addition to supporting the cash flow and
    duration objectives of our investment portfolio. We also use
    derivatives as an integral part of our management of the
    investment portfolio to hedge certain risks, including changes
    in interest rates, foreign currencies, credit spreads and equity
    market levels. Additional considerations for our investment
    portfolio include current and expected market conditions and
    expectations for changes within our specific mix of products and
    business segments. In addition, the general account investment
    portfolio includes within trading and other securities,
    contractholder-directed investments supporting unit-linked
    variable annuity type liabilities, which do not qualify for
    reporting and presentation as separate account assets. The
    returns on these investments, which can vary significantly
    period to period include changes in estimated fair value
    subsequent to purchase, inure to contractholders and are offset
    in earnings by a corresponding change in policyholder account
    balances through interest credited to policyholder account
    balances.

The composition of the investment portfolio of each business
    segment is tailored to the specific characteristics of its
    insurance liabilities, causing certain portfolios to be shorter
    in duration and others to be longer in duration. Accordingly,
    certain portfolios are more heavily weighted in longer duration,
    higher yielding fixed maturity securities, or certain
     sub-sectors 
    of fixed maturity securities, than other portfolios.

Investments are purchased to support our insurance liabilities
    and not to generate net investment gains and losses. However,
    net investment gains and losses are generated and can change
    significantly from period to period, due to changes in external
    influences, including movements in interest rates, foreign
    currencies, credit spreads and equity markets, counterparty
    specific factors such as financial performance, credit rating
    and collateral valuation, and internal factors such as portfolio
    rebalancing, that can generate gains and losses. As an investor
    in the fixed income, equity security, mortgage loan and certain
    other invested asset classes, we are exposed to the above stated
    risks, which can lead to both impairments and credit-related
    losses.

Freestanding derivatives are used to hedge certain investments
    and liabilities. For those hedges not designated as accounting
    hedges, changes in these market risks can lead to the
    recognition of fair value changes in net derivative gains
    (losses) without an offsetting gain or loss recognized in
    earnings for the item being hedged even though these are
    effective economic hedges. Additionally, we issue liabilities
    and purchase assets that contain embedded derivatives whose
    changes in estimated fair value are sensitive to changes in
    market risks and are also recognized in net derivative gains
    (losses).

The favorable variance in net derivative gains (losses) of
    $3.0 billion, from losses of $3.2 billion in 2009 to
    losses of $172 million in 2010 was primarily driven by a
    favorable change in freestanding derivatives of
    $4.4 billion, comprised of a $4.5 billion favorable
    change from losses in the prior year of $4.3 billion to
    gains in the current year of $203 million and
    $123 million in ALICO freestanding derivative losses. This
    favorable variance was partially offset by an unfavorable change
    in embedded derivatives primarily associated with variable
    annuity minimum benefit guarantees of $1.4 billion from
    gains in the prior year of $1.1 billion to losses in the
    current year of $257 million, net of $5 million in
    ALICO embedded derivative gains.

We use freestanding interest rate, currency, credit and equity
    derivatives to provide economic hedges of certain invested
    assets and insurance liabilities, including embedded
    derivatives, within certain of our variable annuity minimum
    benefit guarantees. The $4.5 billion favorable variance in
    freestanding derivatives was primarily attributable to market
    factors, including falling long-term and mid-term interest
    rates, a stronger recovery in equity markets in the prior year
    than the current year, a greater decrease in equity volatility
    in the prior year as

91

Table of Contents   

compared to the current year, a strengthening U.S. dollar
    and widening corporate credit spreads in the financial services
    sector. Falling long-term and mid-term interest rates in the
    current year compared to rising long-term and mid-term interest
    rates in the prior year had a positive impact of
    $2.6 billion on our interest rate derivatives,
    $931 million of which is attributable to hedges of variable
    annuity minimum benefit guarantee liabilities, which are
    accounted for as embedded derivatives. In addition, stronger
    equity market recovery and lower equity market volatility in the
    prior year as compared to the current year had a positive impact
    of $1.1 billion on our equity derivatives, which we use to
    hedge variable annuity minimum benefit guarantees.
    U.S. dollar strengthening had a positive impact of
    $554 million on certain of our foreign currency
    derivatives, which are used to hedge foreign-denominated asset
    and liability exposures. Finally, widening corporate credit
    spreads in the financial services sector had a positive impact
    of $221 million on our purchased protection credit
    derivatives.

Certain variable annuity products with minimum benefit
    guarantees contain embedded derivatives that are measured at
    estimated fair value separately from the host variable annuity
    contract, with changes in estimated fair value reported in net
    derivative gains (losses). These embedded derivatives also
    include an adjustment for nonperformance risk of the related
    liabilities carried at estimated fair value. The
    $1.4 billion unfavorable change in embedded derivatives was
    primarily attributable to the impact of market factors,
    including falling long-term and mid-term interest rates, changes
    in foreign currency exchange rates, equity volatility and equity
    market movements. Falling long-term and mid-term interest rates
    in the current year compared to rising long-term and mid-term
    interest rates in the prior year had a negative impact of
    $1.4 billion. Changes in foreign currency exchange rates
    had a negative impact of $468 million. Equity volatility
    decreased more in the prior year than in the current year
    causing a negative impact of $284 million, and a stronger
    recovery in the equity markets in the prior year than in the
    current year had a negative impact of $228 million. The
    unfavorable impact from these hedged risks was partially offset
    by a favorable change related to the adjustment for
    nonperformance risk of $1.2 billion, from losses of
    $1.3 billion in 2009 to losses of $62 million in 2010.
    This $62 million loss was net of a $621 million loss
    related to a refinement in estimating the spreads used in the
    adjustment for nonperformance risk made in the second quarter of
    2010. Gains on the freestanding derivatives that hedged these
    embedded derivative risks largely offset the change in
    liabilities attributable to market factors, excluding the
    adjustment for nonperformance risk, which does not have an
    economic impact on the Company.

Improved or stabilizing market conditions across several
    invested asset classes and sectors as compared to the prior year
    resulted in decreases in impairments and in net realized losses
    from sales and disposals of investments in most components of
    our investment portfolio. These decreases, coupled with a
    decrease in the provision for credit losses on mortgage loans
    due to improved market conditions, resulted in a
    $1.6 billion improvement in net investment gains (losses).

Income from continuing operations, net of income tax for 2010
    includes $138 million of expenses related to the
    acquisition and integration of ALICO. These expenses, which
    primarily consisted of investment banking and legal fees, are
    recorded in Banking, Corporate   Other and are not a
    component of operating earnings.

As more fully described in the discussion of performance
    measures above, we use operating earnings, which does not equate
    to income (loss) from continuing operations as determined in
    accordance with GAAP, to analyze our performance, evaluate
    segment performance, and allocate resources. Operating earnings
    is also a measure by which senior management s and many
    other employees  performance is evaluated for the purpose
    of determining their compensation under applicable compensation
    plans. We believe that the presentation of operating earnings,
    as we measure it for management purposes, enhances the
    understanding of our performance by highlighting the results of
    operations and the underlying profitability drivers of the
    business. Operating earnings should not be viewed as a
    substitute for GAAP income (loss) from continuing operations,
    net of income tax. Operating earnings available to common
    shareholders increased by $1.5 billion to $3.9 billion
    in 2010 from $2.4 billion in 2009.

92

Table of Contents   

Reconciliation
    of income (loss) from continuing operations, net of income tax,
    to operating earnings available to common
    shareholders   

Year
    Ended December 31, 2010   

Year
    Ended December 31, 2009   

(1)  

See definitions of operating revenues and operating expenses for
    the components of such adjustments. 

93

Table of Contents   

Reconciliation
    of GAAP revenues to operating revenues and GAAP expenses to
    operating expenses   

Year
    Ended December 31, 2010   

Year
    Ended December 31, 2009   

(1)  

See definitions of operating revenues and operating expenses for
    the components of such adjustments. 

94

Table of Contents   

Unless otherwise stated, all amounts discussed below are net of
    income tax and are on a constant currency basis. The constant
    currency basis amounts for both periods are calculated using the
    average foreign currency exchange rates of 2010.

The improvement in the financial markets was the primary driver
    of the increase in operating earnings as evidenced by higher net
    investment income and an increase in average separate account
    balances, which resulted in an increase in policy fee income.
    Interest rate and equity market changes resulted in a decrease
    in variable annuity guarantee benefit costs. Partially
    offsetting this improvement was an increase in amortization of
    DAC, VOBA and DSI. The increase in operating earnings also
    includes the positive impact of changes in foreign currency
    exchange rates in 2010. This improved reported operating
    earnings by $38 million for 2010 compared to 2009.
    Excluding the impact of changes in foreign currency exchange
    rates, operating earnings increased $1.5 billion from the
    prior period. Furthermore, the 2010 period also includes one
    month of ALICO results, contributing $114 million to the
    increase in operating earnings. The current period also
    benefited from the dividend scale reduction in the fourth
    quarter of 2009. The improvement in 2010 results compared to
    2009 was partially offset by a decline in residential mortgage
    loan production and the prior period impact of pesification in
    Argentina.

In addition to a $133 million increase due to the inclusion
    of ALICO results, net investment income increased by
    $792 million from higher yields and $515 million from
    growth in average invested assets. Yields were positively
    impacted by the effects of stabilizing real estate markets and
    recovering private equity markets year over year on real estate
    joint ventures and other limited partnership interests, and by
    the effects of continued repositioning of the accumulated
    liquidity in our portfolio to longer duration and higher
    yielding investments, including investment grade corporate fixed
    maturity securities. Growth in our investment portfolio was
    primarily due to positive net cash flows from growth in our
    domestic individual and group life businesses, as well as
    certain international businesses; increased bank deposits,
    higher cash collateral balances received from our derivative
    counterparties, as well as the temporary investment of proceeds
    from the debt and common stock issuances in anticipation of the
    Acquisition. With the exception of the cash flows from such
    securities issuances, which were temporarily invested in lower
    yielding liquid investments, we continued to reposition the
    accumulated liquidity in our portfolio to longer duration and
    higher yielding investments.

Since many of our products are interest spread-based, higher net
    investment income is typically offset by higher interest
    credited expense. However, interest credited expense, including
    amounts reflected in policyholder benefits and claims, decreased
    $147 million, primarily in our domestic funding agreement
    business, which experienced lower average crediting rates
    combined with lower average account balances. Our fixed
    annuities business also experienced lower crediting rates.
    Certain crediting rates can move consistently with the
    underlying market indices, primarily the London Inter-Bank Offer
    Rate ( LIBOR ), which were lower than the prior year.
    The impact from the growth in our structured settlement,
    long-term care and disability businesses partially offset those
    decreases in interest credited expense.

A significant increase in average separate account balances is
    largely attributable to favorable market performance resulting
    from improved market conditions since the second quarter of 2009
    and positive net cash flows from the annuity business. This
    resulted in higher policy fees and other revenues of
    $471 million, most notably in our Retirement Products
    segment. The improvement in fees is partially offset by greater
    DAC, VOBA and DSI amortization of $377 million. Policy fees
    are typically calculated as a percentage of the average assets
    in the separate accounts. DAC, VOBA and DSI amortization is
    based on the earnings of the business, which in the retirement
    business are derived, in part, from fees earned on separate
    account balances. A portion of the increase in amortization was
    due to the impact of higher current year gross margins, a
    primary component in the determination of the amount of
    amortization for our Insurance Products segment, mostly in the
    closed block resulting from increased investment yields and the
    impact of dividend scale reductions.

There was a $59 million decrease in variable annuity
    guaranteed benefit costs. Costs associated with our annuity
    guaranteed benefit liabilities, hedge programs and reinsurance
    programs are impacted by equity markets and interest rate levels
    to varying degrees. While 2010 and 2009 both experienced equity
    market improvements, the improvement in 2009 was greater.
    Interest rate levels declined in the current year and increased
    in the prior year. Annuity guaranteed benefit liabilities, net
    of a decrease in paid claims, increased benefits by
    $93 million primarily from our annual unlocking of
    assumptions related to these liabilities. The hedge and
    reinsurance programs which are used to mitigate the risk
    associated with these guarantees produced losses in both
    periods, but the losses in the

95

Table of Contents   

prior period were more significant due to the 2009 equity market
    recovery. The change in hedge and reinsurance program costs
    decreased by $152 million. These hedge and reinsurance
    programs, which are a key part of our risk management strategy,
    performed as anticipated.

The reduction in the dividend scale in the fourth quarter of
    2009 resulted in a $109 million decrease in policyholder
    dividends in the traditional life business in the current period.

Claims experience varied amongst our businesses with a net
    unfavorable impact of $153 million to operating earnings
    compared to the prior year. We had unfavorable claims experience
    in our Auto   Home segment, primarily due to increased
    catastrophes. Our Insurance Products segment experienced mixed
    claims experience with a net unfavorable impact. We experienced
    less favorable mortality experience in our Corporate Benefit
    Funding segment despite favorable experience in our structured
    settlements business.

A $15.2 billion decline in residential mortgage loan
    production resulted in a $131 million decrease in operating
    earnings, $32 million of which is reflected in net
    investment income from lower investment levels with the
    remainder largely attributable to a reduction in fee income. The
    increase in the serviced residential mortgage loan portfolio
    improved operating earnings by $41 million, including
    $23 million of costs associated with investment and growth
    in our banking business as discussed below.

Interest expense increased $64 million primarily as a
    result of the full year impact of debt issuances in 2009 and of
    senior notes and debt securities issued in anticipation of the
    Acquisition, partially offset by the impact of lower interest
    rates on variable rate collateral financing arrangements.

In addition to a $269 million increase associated with the
    Acquisition, operating expenses increased due to the impact of a
    $95 million benefit recorded in the prior period related to
    the pesification in Argentina, as well as an $83 million
    increase related to the investment and growth in our
    international and banking businesses. In addition, the current
    period includes a $14 million increase in charitable
    contributions and $13 million of costs associated with the
    integration of ALICO. Offsetting these increases was a
    $76 million reduction in discretionary spending, such as
    consulting, rent and postemployment related costs. In addition,
    we experienced a $47 million decline in market driven
    expenses, primarily pension and post retirement benefit costs.
    Also contributing to the decrease was a $35 million
    reduction in real estate-related charges and $15 million of
    lower legal costs.

Income tax expense for the year ended December 31, 2010 was
    $1,181 million, or 30% of income from continuing operations
    before provision for income tax, compared with income tax
    benefit of $2,015 million, or 47% of the loss from
    continuing operations before benefit for income tax, for the
    comparable 2009 period. The Company s 2010 and 2009
    effective tax rates differ from the U.S. statutory rate of
    35% primarily due to the impact of certain permanent tax
    differences, including non-taxable investment income and tax
    credits for investments in low income housing, in relation to
    income (loss) from continuing operations before income tax, as
    well as certain foreign permanent tax differences.

The 2010 period includes $75 million of charges related to
    the Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act and the Health
    Care and Education Reconciliation Act of 2010 (together, the
     Health Care Act ). The Federal government currently
    provides a Medicare Part D subsidy. The Health Care Act
    reduced the tax deductibility of retiree health care costs to
    the extent of any Medicare Part D subsidy received
    beginning in 2013. Because the deductibility of future retiree
    health care costs is reflected in our financial statements, the
    entire future impact of this change in law was required to be
    recorded as a charge in the period in which the legislation was
    enacted. Changes to the provision for income taxes in both
    periods contributed to an increase in operating earnings of
    $86 million for our International segment, resulting from a
    $34 million unfavorable impact in 2009 due to a change in
    assumption regarding the repatriation of earnings and a benefit
    of $52 million in the current year from additional
    permanent reinvestment of earnings, the reversal of tax
    provisions and favorable changes in liabilities for tax
    uncertainties. In addition, in 2009 we had a larger benefit of
    $71 million as compared to 2010 related to the utilization
    of tax preferenced investments which provide tax credits and
    deductions.

96

Table of Contents   

Insurance
    Products   

Unless otherwise stated, all amounts discussed below are net of
    income tax.

The improvement in the global financial markets had a positive
    impact on net investment income, which contributed to the
    increase in Insurance Products  operating earnings. In
    addition, we experienced overall modest revenue growth in
    several of our businesses despite this challenging environment.
    High levels of unemployment continue to depress growth across
    most of our group insurance businesses due to lower covered
    payrolls. Growth in our group life business was dampened by a
    decline in our non-medical health and individual life
    businesses. However, our dental business benefited from higher
    enrollment and pricing actions, partially offset by lower
    persistency and the loss of existing subscribers, driven by high
    unemployment. This business also experienced more stable
    utilization and benefits costs in the current year. The revenue
    growth from our dental business was more than offset by a
    decline in revenues from our disability business, mainly due to
    net customer cancellations, changes in benefit levels and lower
    covered lives. Our long-term care revenues were flat year over
    year, concurrent with the discontinuance of the sale of this
    coverage at the end of 2010. In our individual life business,
    the change in revenues was suppressed by the impact of a benefit
    recorded in the prior year related to the positive resolution of
    certain legal matters. Excluding this impact, the traditional
    life business experienced 8% growth in our open block of
    business. The expected run-off of our closed block more than
    offset this growth.

The significant components of the $179 million increase in
    operating earnings were an improvement in net investment income
    and the impact of a reduction in dividends to certain
    policyholders, coupled with lower expenses. These improvements
    were partially offset by an increase in DAC amortization, as
    well as net unfavorable claims experience across several of our
    businesses.

Higher net investment income of $295 million was due to a
    $202 million increase from growth in average invested
    assets and a $93 million increase from higher yields.
    Growth in the investment portfolio was attributed to an increase
    in net cash flows from the majority of our businesses. The
    increase in yields was largely due to the positive effects of
    recovering private equity markets and stabilizing real estate
    markets on other limited partnership interests and real estate
    joint ventures. To manage the needs of our intermediate to
    longer-term liabilities, our portfolio consists primarily of
    investment grade corporate fixed maturity securities, mortgage
    loans, structured finance securities (comprised of mortgage and
    asset-backed securities) and U.S. Treasury, agency and
    government guaranteed fixed maturity securities and, to a lesser
    extent, certain other invested asset classes, including other

97

Table of Contents   

limited partnership interests, real estate joint ventures and
    other invested assets which provide additional diversification
    and opportunity for long-term yield enhancement.

The increase in net investment income was partially offset by a
    $36 million increase in interest credited on long duration
    contracts, which is reflected in the change in policyholder
    benefits and dividends, primarily due to growth in future
    policyholder benefits in our long-term care and disability
    businesses.

Other expenses decreased by $82 million, largely due to a
    decrease of $40 million from the impact of market
    conditions on certain expenses, such as pension and
    post-retirement benefit costs. In addition, a decrease in
    information technology expenses of $29 million contributed
    to the improvement in operating earnings. A decrease in variable
    expenses, such as commissions and premium taxes, further reduced
    expenses by $11 million, a portion of which is offset by
    DAC capitalization.

The reduction in the dividend scale in the fourth quarter of
    2009 resulted in a $109 million decrease in policyholder
    dividends in the traditional life business in the current year.

Claims experience varied amongst Insurance Products 
    businesses with a net unfavorable impact of $42 million to
    operating earnings. We experienced excellent mortality results
    in our group life business due to a decrease in severity, as
    well as favorable reserve refinements in the current year. In
    addition, an improvement in our long-term care results was
    driven by favorable claim experience mainly due to higher
    terminations and less claimants in the current year, coupled
    with the impact of unfavorable reserve refinements in the prior
    year. Our improved dental results were driven by higher
    enrollment and pricing actions, as well as improved claim
    experience in the current year. The impact of this positive
    experience was surpassed by solid, but less favorable mortality,
    in our individual life business combined with higher incidence
    and severity of group disability claims in the current year, and
    the impact of a gain from the recapture of a reinsurance
    arrangement in the prior year.

Higher DAC amortization of $157 million was primarily
    driven by the impact of higher gross margins, a primary
    component in the determination of the amount of amortization,
    mostly in the closed block resulting from increased investment
    yields and the impact of dividend scale reductions. In addition,
    the net impact of various model refinements in both the prior
    and current year increased DAC amortization.

Certain events reduced operating earnings, including the impact
    of a benefit being recorded in the prior year of
    $17 million related to the positive resolution of certain
    legal matters and an increase in current income tax expense of
    $27 million, resulting from an increase in our effective
    tax rate.

98

Table of Contents   

Retirement
    Products   

Unless otherwise stated, all amounts discussed below are net of
    income tax.

During 2010, overall annuity sales decreased 5% compared to 2009
    as declines in fixed annuity sales were partially offset by
    increased sales of our variable annuity products. The financial
    market turmoil in early 2009 resulted in extraordinarily high
    sales of fixed annuity products in 2009. The high sales level
    was not expected to continue after the financial markets
    returned to more stable levels. Variable annuity product sales
    increased primarily due to the expansion of alternative
    distribution channels and fewer competitors in the market place.
    Surrender rates for both our variable and fixed annuities
    remained low during the current period as we believe our
    customers continue to value our products compared to other
    alternatives in the marketplace.

Interest rate and equity market changes were the primary driver
    of the $431 million increase in operating earnings, with
    the largest impact resulting from a $370 million increase
    in policy fees and other revenues, a $193 million increase
    in net investment income, and a $59 million decrease in
    variable annuity guarantee benefit costs, offset by a
    $204 million increase in DAC, VOBA and DSI amortization and
    a $39 million increase in commission expense resulting from
    growth in annuity contract balances.

A significant increase in average separate account balances was
    largely attributable to favorable market performance resulting
    from improved market conditions since the second quarter of 2009
    and positive net cash flows from the annuity business. This
    resulted in higher policy fees and other revenues of
    $370 million, partially offset by greater DAC, VOBA and DSI
    amortization. Policy fees are typically calculated as a
    percentage of the average assets in the separate account. DAC,
    VOBA and DSI amortization is based on the earnings of the
    business, which in the retirement business are derived, in part,
    from fees earned on separate account balances.

Financial market improvements also resulted in the increase in
    net investment income of $193 million as a
    $291 million increase from higher yields was partially
    offset by a $98 million decrease from a decline in average
    invested assets. Yields were positively impacted by the effects
    of the continued repositioning of the accumulated liquidity in
    our investment portfolio to longer duration and higher yielding
    assets, including investment grade corporate fixed maturity
    securities. Yields were also positively impacted by the effects
    of recovering private equity markets and stabilizing real estate
    markets on other limited partnership interests and real estate
    joint ventures. Despite positive net cash flows, a reduction in
    the general account investment portfolio was due to the impact
    of

99

Table of Contents   

more customers gaining confidence in the equity markets and, as
    a result, electing to transfer funds into our separate account
    investment options as market conditions improved. To manage the
    needs of our intermediate to longer-term liabilities, our
    investment portfolio consists primarily of investment grade
    corporate fixed maturity securities, structured finance
    securities, mortgage loans and U.S. Treasury, agency and
    government guaranteed fixed maturity securities and, to a lesser
    extent, certain other invested asset classes, including other
    limited partnership interests, real estate joint ventures and
    other invested assets, in order to provide additional
    diversification and opportunity for long-term yield enhancement.

There was a $59 million decrease in variable annuity
    guaranteed benefit costs in 2010 compared to 2009. Costs
    associated with our annuity guaranteed benefit liabilities,
    hedge programs and reinsurance programs are impacted by equity
    markets and interest rate levels to varying degrees. While the
    equity market improved in both 2010 and 2009, the improvement in
    2009 was greater. Interest rate levels declined in the current
    year and increased in the prior year. Annuity guaranteed benefit
    liabilities, net of a decrease in paid claims, increased
    benefits by $93 million primarily from our annual unlocking
    of assumptions related to these liabilities. The hedge and
    reinsurance programs which are used to mitigate the risk
    associated with these guarantees produced losses in both
    periods, but the losses in the prior period were more
    significant due to the 2009 equity market recovery. The costs
    related to our hedge and reinsurance programs decreased by
    $152 million in 2010 compared to 2009. These hedge and
    reinsurance programs, which are a key part of our risk
    management strategy, performed as anticipated.

Interest credited expense decreased $49 million driven by
    lower average crediting rates on fixed annuities and higher
    amortization of excess interest reserve due to one large case
    surrender in 2010, partially offset by growth in our fixed
    annuity policyholder account balances.

Corporate
    Benefit Funding   

Unless otherwise stated, all amounts discussed below are net of
    income tax.

Corporate Benefit Funding benefited in 2010 from strong sales of
    structured settlement products and continued market penetration
    of our pension closeout business in the U.K. However, structured
    settlement premiums have declined $174 million, before
    income tax, from 2009 reflecting extraordinary sales in the
    fourth quarter of 2009. While market penetration continued in
    our pension closeout business in the U.K. as the number of sold
    cases

100

Table of Contents   

increased, the average premium has declined, resulting in a
    decrease in premiums of $216 million, before income tax.
    Although improving, a combination of poor equity returns and
    lower interest rates have contributed to pension plans remaining
    underfunded, both in the U.S. and in the U.K., which
    reduces our customers  flexibility to engage in
    transactions such as pension closeouts. For each of these
    businesses, the movement in premiums is almost entirely offset
    by the related change in policyholder benefits. The insurance
    liability that is established at the time we assume the risk
    under these contracts is typically equivalent to the premium
    recognized.

The $340 million increase in operating earnings was
    primarily driven by an improvement in net investment income and
    the impact of lower crediting rates, partially offset by the
    impact of prior period favorable liability refinements and less
    favorable mortality.

The primary driver of the $340 million increase in
    operating earnings was higher net investment income of
    $278 million, reflecting a $187 million increase from
    higher yields and a $91 million increase in average
    invested assets. Yields were positively impacted by the effects
    of stabilizing real estate markets and recovering private equity
    markets on real estate joint ventures and other limited
    partnership interests. These improvements in yields were
    partially offset by decreased yields on fixed maturity
    securities due to the reinvestment of proceeds from maturities
    and sales during this lower interest rate environment. Growth in
    the investment portfolio is due to an increase in average
    policyholder account balances and growth in the securities
    lending program. To manage the needs of our longer-term
    liabilities, our portfolio consists primarily of investment
    grade corporate fixed maturity securities, structured finance
    securities, mortgage loans and U.S. Treasury, agency and
    government guaranteed securities, and, to a lesser extent,
    certain other invested asset classes including other limited
    partnership interests, real estate joint ventures and other
    invested assets in order to provide additional diversification
    and opportunity for long-term yield enhancement. For our
    short-term obligations, we invest primarily in structured
    finance securities, mortgage loans and investment grade
    corporate fixed maturity securities. The yields on these
    short-term investments have moved consistently with the
    underlying market indices, primarily LIBOR and
    U.S. Treasury, on which they are based.

As many of our products are interest spread-based, changes in
    net investment income are typically offset by a corresponding
    change in interest credited expense. However, interest credited
    expense decreased $122 million, primarily related to our
    funding agreement business as a result of lower average
    crediting rates combined with lower average account balances.
    Certain crediting rates can move consistently with the
    underlying market indices, primarily LIBOR, which were lower
    than the prior year. Interest credited expense related to the
    structured settlement businesses increased $40 million as a
    result of the increase in the average policyholder liabilities.

Mortality experience was mixed and reduced operating earnings in
    2010 by $26 million. Less favorable mortality in our
    pension closeouts and corporate owned life insurance businesses
    compared to 2009 was only slightly offset by favorable mortality
    experience in our structured settlements business.

Liability refinements in both the current and prior year
    resulted in a $28 million decrease to operating earnings.
    These were largely offset by the impact of a charge in the 2009
    period related to a refinement of a reinsurance recoverable in
    the small business recordkeeping business which increased
    operating earnings by $20 million.

101

Table of Contents   

Auto  
    Home   

Unless otherwise stated, all amounts discussed below are net of
    income tax.

The improving housing and automobile markets have provided
    opportunities that led to increased new business sales for both
    homeowners and auto policies in 2010. Sales of new policies
    increased 11% for our homeowners business and 4% for our auto
    business in 2010 compared to 2009. Average premium per policy
    also improved in 2010 over 2009 in our homeowners businesses but
    remained flat in our auto business.

The primary driver of the $22 million decrease in operating
    earnings was unfavorable claims experience, partially offset by
    higher net investment income and increased premiums.

Catastrophe-related losses increased by $58 million
    compared to 2009 due to increases in both the number and
    severity of storms. Current period claim costs decreased
    $19 million as a result of lower frequencies in both our
    auto and homeowners businesses; however, this was partially
    offset by a $13 million increase in claims due to higher
    severity in our homeowners business. Also contributing to the
    decline in operating earnings was an increase of $7 million
    in loss adjusting expenses, primarily related to a decrease in
    our unallocated loss adjusting expense liabilities at the end of
    2009.

The impact of the items discussed above can be seen in the
    unfavorable change in the combined ratio, including
    catastrophes, increasing to 94.6% in 2010 from 92.3% in 2009 and
    the favorable change in the combined ratio, excluding
    catastrophes, decreasing to 88.1% in 2010 from 88.9% in 2009.

A $19 million increase in net investment income partially
    offset the declines in operating earnings discussed above. Net
    investment income was higher primarily as a result of an
    increase in average invested assets, including changes in
    allocated equity, partially offset by a decrease in yields. This
    portfolio is comprised primarily of high quality municipal bonds.

The increase in average premium per policy in our homeowners
    businesses improved operating earnings by $10 million as
    did an increase in exposures which improved operating earnings
    by $1 million. Exposures are primarily each automobile for
    the auto line of business and each residence for the property
    line of business. Also improving operating earnings, through an
    increase in premiums, was a $5 million reduction in
    reinsurance costs.

The slight increase in other expenses was more than offset by an
    $8 million increase in DAC capitalization, resulting
    primarily from increased premiums written.

In addition, a first quarter 2010 write-off of an equity
    interest in a mandatory state underwriting pool required by a
    change in legislation and a decrease in income from a
    retroactive reinsurance contract in run-off, both of which

102

Table of Contents   

were recorded in other revenues, drove a $7 million
    decrease in operating earnings. Auto   Home also
    benefited from a lower effective tax rate which improved
    operating earnings by $8 million primarily as a result of
    tax free interest income representing a larger portion of
    pre-tax income.

International   

Unless otherwise stated, all amounts discussed below are net of
    income tax and are on a constant currency basis. The constant
    currency basis amounts for both periods are calculated using the
    average foreign currency exchange rates for 2010.

The improvement in the global financial markets has resulted in
    continued growth, with a 24% increase in sales in the current
    period compared to the prior period excluding the results of our
    Japan joint venture. Retirement and savings sales increased 30%
    driven by strong annuity, universal life and pension sales in
    Europe, Mexico, Chile, South Korea and China. In our Europe and
    the Middle East operations, sales of annuities and universal
    life products remained strong, more than doubling from the prior
    year, partially offset by lower pension and variable universal
    life sales in India due to the loss of a major distributor, as
    well as lower credit life sales. Our Latin America operation
    experienced an overall increase in sales resulting from solid
    growth in pension and universal life sales in Mexico and an
    increase in fixed annuity sales in Chile due to market recovery,
    slightly offset by lower bank sales in Brazil resulting from
    incentives offered in the prior year. Sales in our Asia Pacific
    operation, excluding the results of our Japan joint venture,
    increased primarily due to higher variable universal life sales
    in South Korea, slightly offset by the decline in annuity sales
    and strong bank channel sales in China. We have experienced
    lower sales in Taiwan following the announcement of the planned
    sale of this business. While the third party s application
    for approval of the sale of our Taiwan affiliate was rejected by
    the Taiwan Financial Supervising Commission, the Company
    continues to explore strategic options with respect to this
    affiliate.

Reported operating earnings increased by $329 million over
    the prior year. The positive impact of changes in foreign
    currency exchange rates improved reported earnings by
    $38 million for 2010 compared to 2009. Excluding the impact
    of changes in foreign currency exchange rates, operating
    earnings increased $291 million, or 58%. Reported operating
    earnings reflect the operating results of ALICO from the
    Acquisition Date through November 30, 2010, which
    contributed $114 million to our 2010 operating earnings. As
    previously noted,

103

Table of Contents   

ALICO s accounting year-end is November 30; therefore,
    International s results for the year include one month of
    ALICO results.

Changes in assumptions for measuring the impact of inflation on
    certain inflation-indexed fixed maturity securities increased
    operating earnings by $124 million. Changes to the
    provision for income taxes in both periods contributed to an
    increase in operating earnings of $86 million, resulting
    from a $34 million unfavorable impact in 2009 from a change
    in assumption regarding the repatriation of earnings and a
    benefit $52 million in the current year from additional
    permanent reinvestment of earnings, the reversal of tax
    provisions and favorable changes in liabilities for tax
    uncertainties. Business growth in our Latin America operation
    contributed to an increase in operating earnings. Operating
    earnings in Mexico increased $56 million from growth in our
    institutional and individual businesses, partially offset by the
    impact of unfavorable claims experience of $26 million.
    Higher investment yields resulting from portfolio restructuring
    was the primary driver in Argentina contributing
    $23 million to the improvement in operating earnings.
    India s results benefited by $10 million primarily due
    to lower expenses resulting from the loss of a major distributor
    and slower growth resulting from market conditions.

Partially offsetting these increases is the impact of
    pesification in Argentina, which favorably impacted 2009
    reported earnings by $95 million. This prior period benefit
    was due to a liability release resulting from a reassessment of
    our approach in managing existing and potential future claims
    related to certain social security pension annuity
    contractholders in Argentina. In addition, operating earnings in
    Australia were lower by $9 million, which was primarily due
    to a write-off of DAC attributable to a change in a product
    feature in the current period.

In addition to a $133 million increase due to the inclusion
    of ALICO results, net investment income increased
    $102 million from growth in average invested assets and
    $88 million from improved yields. Growth in average
    invested assets reflects growth in our businesses. Improved
    yields reflects the impact of increased inflation, primarily in
    Chile, as well as the impact of changes in assumptions for
    measuring the effects of inflation on certain inflation-indexed
    fixed maturity securities. The increase in net investment income
    from higher inflation was offset by an increase in the related
    insurance liabilities due to higher inflation. Although
    diversification into higher yielding investments had a positive
    impact on yields, this was partially offset by decreased trading
    and other securities results driven by a stronger recovery in
    equity markets in 2009 compared to 2010, primarily in Hong Kong,
    and by a decrease in the results of our operating joint
    ventures. The reduction in net investment income from our
    trading portfolio is entirely offset by a corresponding decrease
    in the interest credited on the related contractholder account
    balances and therefore had no impact on operating earnings.

In addition to a $269 million increase associated with the
    Acquisition, operating expenses increased due to the impact of
    the pesification in Argentina noted above, as well as current
    period business growth in South Korea, Brazil and Mexico, which
    resulted in $93 million of increased commissions and
    compensation. These increases were partially offset by
    $33 million of lower commissions and business expenses in
    India.

104

Table of Contents   

Banking,
    Corporate   Other   

Unless otherwise stated, all amounts discussed below are net of
    income tax.

During 2010, mortgage refinancing activity continued to return
    to more moderate levels compared to the unusually high levels
    experienced in 2009. Consistent with these market conditions, we
    experienced a $15.2 billion decline in residential mortgage
    production during 2010, while our serviced residential mortgage
    loans increased $20.1 billion, which includes a
    $16.5 billion purchase from a FDIC receivership bank in the
    third quarter of 2010 and a net sale of $4.8 billion to
    FNMA in the second quarter of 2010. Servicing run-off of
    existing business slowed to 18.2% in 2010 compared with 19.6% in
    2009.

The Holding Company completed four debt financings in August
    2010 in anticipation of the Acquisition, issuing
    $1.0 billion of 2.375% senior notes, $1.0 billion
    of 4.75% senior notes, $750 million of
    5.875% senior notes, and $250 million of floating rate
    senior notes. The Holding Company also issued debt securities,
    which are part of the $3.0 billion stated value of common
    equity units. The proceeds from these debt issuances were used
    to finance the Acquisition. The Holding Company completed three
    debt issuances in 2009 in response to the economic crisis,
    issuing $397 million of floating rate senior notes in March
    2009, $1.3 billion of senior notes in May 2009, and
    $500 million of junior subordinated debt securities in July
    2009. The proceeds from these debt issuances were used for
    general corporate purposes.

Operating earnings available to common shareholders and
    operating earnings, which excludes preferred stock dividends,
    each increased $270 million, primarily due to an increase
    in net investment income and a reduction in operating expenses,
    partially offset by a decline in mortgage banking revenues, a
    decrease in tax benefit and an increase in interest expense
    resulting from the debt issuances noted above.

Net investment income increased $335 million reflecting an
    increase of $189 million due to higher yields and an
    increase of $146 million from growth in average invested
    assets. Yields were positively impacted by the effects of
    recovering private equity markets and stabilizing real estate
    markets on other limited partnership interests and real estate
    joint ventures. This was partially offset by lower fixed
    maturities yields which were adversely impacted by the
    reinvestment of proceeds from maturities and sales during this
    lower interest rate environment and from decreased trading and
    other securities results due to a stronger recovery in equity
    markets in 2009 as compared to 2010. In addition, due to the
    lower interest rate environment in the current year, less net
    investment income was credited to the segments in 2010 compared
    to 2009. Growth in average invested assets was primarily due to
    an

105

Table of Contents   

increase in bank deposits, higher cash collateral balances
    received from our derivative counterparties and the temporary
    investment of the proceeds from the debt and common stock
    issuances in anticipation of the Acquisition. Our investments
    primarily include structured finance securities, investment
    grade corporate fixed maturities, mortgage loans and
    U.S. Treasury, agency and government guaranteed fixed
    maturity securities. In addition, our investment portfolio
    includes the excess capital not allocated to the segments.
    Accordingly, it includes a higher allocation of certain other
    invested asset classes to provide additional diversification and
    opportunity for long-term yield enhancement, including leveraged
    leases, other limited partnership interests, real estate, real
    estate joint ventures, trading securities and equity securities.

Banking, Corporate   Other benefited in 2010 from a
    $76 million reduction in discretionary spending, such as
    consulting and postemployment related costs, a $35 million
    decrease in real estate-related charges and $15 million of
    lower legal costs. Other expenses also include a
    $48 million decrease in commissions as a result of the
    decline in residential mortgage loan production discussed below.
    These savings were partially offset by a $14 million
    increase in charitable contributions. The current year also
    included $44 million of internal resource costs for
    associates committed to the Acquisition and a $23 million
    increase in expenses associated with expanding the
    infrastructure of our banking business. Additionally, the
    positive resolution of certain legal matters increased operating
    earnings by $27 million.

The $15.2 billion decline in residential mortgage loan
    production resulted in a $131 million decrease in operating
    earnings, $32 million of which is reflected in net
    investment income with the remainder largely attributable to a
    reduction in fee income. The increase in the serviced
    residential mortgage loan portfolio improved operating earnings
    by $41 million despite the increased infrastructure
    expenses discussed above.

Maturing time deposits and the need for liquidity in the lower
    interest rate environment of 2010 resulted in a $17 million
    decrease in interest credited to bank deposits, despite growth
    of $1.7 billion in deposits.

Interest expense increased $64 million primarily as a
    result of the debt issuances in 2009 and the senior notes and
    debt securities issued in anticipation of the Acquisition,
    partially offset by the impact of lower interest rates on
    variable rate collateral financing arrangements.

The 2010 period includes $75 million of charges related to
    the Health Care Act. The Federal government currently provides a
    Medicare Part D subsidy. The Health Care Act reduced the
    tax deductibility of retiree health care costs to the extent of
    any Medicare Part D subsidy received beginning in 2013.
    Because the deductibility of future retiree health care costs is
    reflected in our financial statements, the entire future impact
    of this change in law was required to be recorded as a charge in
    the period in which the legislation was enacted. As a result, we
    incurred a $75 million charge in the first quarter of 2010.
    The Health Care Act also amended Internal Revenue Code
    Section 162(m) as a result of which MetLife was initially
    considered a healthcare provider, as defined, and would be
    subject to limits on tax deductibility of certain types of
    compensation. In December 2010, the Internal Revenue Service
    issued Notice
     2011-2  which
    clarified that the executive compensation deduction limitation
    included in the Health Care Act did not apply to insurers like
    MetLife selling de minimis amounts of health care coverage. As a
    result, in the fourth quarter of 2010, we reversed
    $18 million of previously recorded taxes for 2010. In 2009,
    Banking, Corporate   Other received a larger benefit
    of $36 million as compared to 2010 related to the
    utilization of tax preferenced investments which provide tax
    credits and deductions.

Results
    of Operations  

Year
    Ended December 31, 2009 compared with the Year Ended
    December 31, 2008   

Unfavorable market conditions continued through 2009, providing
    a challenging business environment. The largest and most
    significant impact continued to be on our investment portfolio
    as declining yields resulted in lower net investment income.
    Market sensitive expenses were also negatively impacted by the
    market conditions as evidenced by an increase in pension and
    postretirement benefit costs. Higher levels of unemployment
    continued to impact certain group businesses as a decrease in
    covered payrolls reduced growth. Our auto and homeowners
    business was impacted by a declining housing market, the
    deterioration of the new auto sales market and the continuation
    of credit availability issues, all of which contributed to a
    decrease in insured exposures. Despite the challenging business
    environment, revenue growth remained solid in the majority of
    our businesses. A flight to

106

Table of Contents   

quality during the year contributed to an improvement in sales
    in both our domestic fixed and variable annuity products. We
    also saw an increase in market share, especially in the
    structured settlement business, where we experienced an increase
    of 53% in premiums. An improvement in the global financial
    markets contributed to a recovery of sales in most of our
    international regions and resulted in improved investment
    performance in some regions during the second half of 2009. We
    also benefited domestically from a strong residential mortgage
    refinance market and healthy growth in the reverse mortgage
    arena.

Unless otherwise stated, all amounts are net of income tax.

During the year ended December 31, 2009, MetLife s
    income (loss) from continuing operations, net of income tax
    decreased $5.8 billion to a loss of $2.3 billion from
    income of $3.5 billion in the comparable 2008 period. The
    year over year change was predominantly due to a
    $5.7 billion unfavorable change in net derivative gains
    (losses) to losses of $3.2 billion in 2009 from gains of
    $2.5 billion in 2008, and a $525 million unfavorable
    change in net investment gains (losses). Offsetting these
    unfavorable variances totaling $6.2 billion were favorable
    changes in adjustments related to net derivative and net
    investment gains (losses) of $972 million, net of income
    tax, principally associated with DAC and VOBA amortization,
    resulting in a total unfavorable variance related to net
    derivative and net investment gains (losses), net of related
    adjustments and income tax, of $5.2 billion.

We manage our investment portfolio using disciplined ALM
    principles, focusing on cash flow and duration to support our
    current and future liabilities. Our intent is to match the
    timing and amount of liability cash outflows with invested
    assets that have cash inflows of comparable timing and amount,
    while optimizing, net of income tax, risk-adjusted net
    investment income and risk-adjusted total return. Our investment
    portfolio is heavily weighted toward fixed income investments,
    with over 80% of our portfolio invested in fixed maturity
    securities and mortgage loans.

107

Table of Contents   

These securities and loans have varying maturities and other
    characteristics which cause them to be generally well suited for
    matching the cash flow and duration of insurance liabilities.
    Other invested asset classes including, but not limited to
    equity securities, other limited partnership interests and real
    estate and real estate joint ventures provide additional
    diversification and opportunity for long-term yield enhancement
    in addition to supporting the cash flow and duration objectives
    of our investment portfolio. We also use derivatives as an
    integral part of our management of the investment portfolio to
    hedge certain risks, including changes in interest rates,
    foreign currencies, credit spreads and equity market levels.
    Additional considerations for our investment portfolio include
    current and expected market conditions and expectations for
    changes within our unique mix of products and business segments.

The composition of the investment portfolio of each business
    segment is tailored to the unique characteristics of its
    insurance liabilities, causing certain portfolios to be shorter
    in duration and others to be longer in duration. Accordingly,
    certain portfolios are more heavily weighted in fixed maturity
    securities, or certain
     sub-sectors 
    of fixed maturity securities, than other portfolios.

Investments are purchased to support our insurance liabilities
    and not to generate net investment gains and losses. However,
    net investment gains and losses are generated and can change
    significantly from period to period, due to changes in external
    influences including movements in interest rates, foreign
    currencies and credit spreads, counterparty specific factors
    such as financial performance, credit rating and collateral
    valuation, and internal factors such as portfolio rebalancing
    that can generate gains and losses. As an investor in the fixed
    income, equity security, mortgage loan and certain other
    invested asset classes, we are exposed to the above stated
    risks, which can lead to both impairments and credit-related
    losses.

In addition to the above risk management strategies, as an
    integral part of our management of the investment portfolio, we
    use freestanding derivatives to hedge market risks including
    changes in interest rates, foreign currencies, credit spreads
    and the equity market. We also use freestanding derivatives to
    hedge these same risks in certain of our liabilities, including
    variable annuity minimum benefit guarantees. For those hedges
    not designated as an accounting hedge, changes in these market
    risks can lead to the recognition of fair value changes in net
    derivative gains (losses) without an offsetting gain or loss
    recognized in earnings for the item being hedged even though
    these are effective economic hedges. Additionally, we issue
    liabilities and purchase assets that contain embedded
    derivatives whose changes in estimated fair value are sensitive
    to changes in market risks and are also recognized in net
    derivative gains (losses).

The unfavorable variance in net derivative gains (losses) of
    $5.7 billion, from gains of $2.5 billion in 2008 to
    losses of $3.2 billion in 2009 was primarily driven by an
    unfavorable change in freestanding derivatives of
    $8.6 billion from gains in the prior period of
    $4.3 billion to losses in the current period of
    $4.3 billion. This unfavorable variance was partially
    offset by a favorable change in embedded derivatives primarily
    associated with variable annuity minimum benefit guarantees of
    $2.9 billion from losses in the prior period of
    $1.7 billion to gains in the current period of
    $1.2 billion.

The $8.6 billion unfavorable variance in freestanding
    derivatives was primarily attributable to market factors,
    including rising interest rates, improving equity markets on
    equity options and futures, decreased equity volatility,
    weakening U.S. dollar, and narrowing credit spreads.
    Long-term and mid-term interest rates increased in the current
    period which caused a negative impact of $4.4 billion on
    our interest rate derivatives, $1.2 billion of which is
    attributable to hedges of variable annuity minimum benefit
    guarantees. Equity markets improved while equity volatility
    decreased in the current period, which had a net negative impact
    of $3.1 billion on our equity derivatives, which we use to
    hedge variable annuity minimum benefit guarantees. Weakening of
    the U.S. dollar in the current period had a negative impact
    of $646 million on certain foreign currency derivatives
    that are used to hedge foreign-denominated asset and liability
    exposures. Narrowing corporate credit spreads had a negative
    impact of $453 million on our purchased protection credit
    derivatives.

The variable annuity products with minimum benefit guarantees
    containing embedded derivatives are measured at fair value
    separately from the host variable annuity contract, with changes
    in estimated fair value reported in net derivative gains
    (losses). The estimated fair value of these embedded derivatives
    also includes an adjustment for nonperformance risk of the
    related liabilities carried at estimated fair value. The
    $2.9 billion favorable change in embedded derivatives was
    primarily attributable to rising interest rates, improving
    equity market performance, a decrease in equity volatility, and
    weakening of the U.S. dollar, which was offset by the

108

Table of Contents   

unfavorable change in the adjustment for nonperformance risk.
    Both long-term and mid-term interest rates increased in the
    current period which had a positive impact of $2.2 billion.
    Improving equity markets in the current period had a positive
    impact of $1.5 billion. Lower equity market volatility in
    the current period compared to the prior period had a positive
    impact of $817 million, and the weakening U.S. dollar
    had a positive impact of $456 million. The favorable
    results from these hedged risks was partially offset by an
    unfavorable change related to the adjustment for nonperformance
    risk of $3.2 billion, from gains of $1.9 billion in
    2008 to losses of $1.3 billion in 2009. Gains on the
    freestanding derivatives that hedged these embedded derivative
    risks more than offset the change in liabilities attributable to
    market factors, excluding the adjustment for nonperformance
    risk. Finally, there was a favorable change of $1.1 billion
    for all other unhedged risks on the variable annuity minimum
    benefit guarantee liabilities.

The $525 million unfavorable change in net investment gains
    (losses) was primarily attributable to higher net losses on
    mortgage loans and other limited partnership interests. The
    increase in losses on mortgage loans was principally due to
    increases in mortgage valuation allowances resulting from
    weakening of the real estate market and other economic
    fundamentals. The increase in losses on other limited
    partnership interests was principally due to higher impairments
    on certain cost method investments which experienced a reduction
    in net asset values of the underlying portfolio companies. The
    underlying valuations of the portfolio companies have decreased
    due to the current economic environment.

As more fully described in the discussion of performance
    measures above, operating earnings is the measure of segment
    profit or loss we use to evaluate performance and allocate
    resources. Consistent with GAAP accounting guidance for segment
    reporting, it is our measure of performance, as reported below.
    Operating earnings is not determined in accordance with GAAP and
    should not be viewed as a substitute for GAAP income (loss) from
    continuing operations, net of income tax. We believe that the
    presentation of operating earnings enhances the understanding of
    our performance by highlighting the results of operations and
    the underlying profitability drivers of the business. Operating
    earnings available to common shareholders decreased by
    $329 million to $2.4 billion in 2009 from
    $2.7 billion in 2008.

Reconciliation
    of income (loss) from continuing operations, net of income tax,
    to operating earnings available to common
    shareholders   

Year
    Ended December 31, 2009   

109

Table of Contents   

Year
    Ended December 31, 2008   

(1)  

See definitions of operating revenues and operating expenses for
    the components of such adjustments. 

Reconciliation
    of GAAP revenues to operating revenues and GAAP expenses to
    operating expenses   

Year
    Ended December 31, 2009   

110

Table of Contents   

Year
    Ended December 31, 2008   

(1)  

See definitions of operating revenues and operating expenses for
    the components of such adjustments. 

The volatile market conditions that began in 2008 and continued
    into 2009 impacted several key components of our operating
    earnings available to common shareholders including net
    investment income, hedging costs, and certain market sensitive
    expenses. The markets also positively impacted our operating
    earnings available to common shareholders as conditions began to
    improve during 2009, resulting in lower DAC and DSI amortization.

A $722 million decline in net investment income was the
    result of decreasing yields, including the effects of our higher
    quality, more liquid, but lower yielding investment position in
    response to the extraordinary market conditions. The impact of
    declining yields caused a $1.6 billion decrease in net
    investment income, which was partially offset by an increase of
    $846 million due to growth in average invested assets
    calculated excluding unrealized gains and losses. The decrease
    in yields resulted from the disruption and dislocation in the
    global financial markets experienced in 2008, which continued,
    but moderated, in 2009. The adverse yield impact was
    concentrated in the following four invested asset classes:

Fixed maturity securities   primarily due to lower
    yields on floating rate securities from declines in short-term
    interest rates and an increased allocation to lower yielding,
    higher quality, U.S. Treasury, agency and government
    guaranteed securities, to increase liquidity in response to the
    extraordinary market conditions, as well as decreased income on
    our securities lending program, primarily due to the smaller
    size of the program in the current year. These adverse impacts
    were offset slightly as conditions improved late in 2009 and we
    began to reallocate our portfolio to higher-yielding assets;

Real estate joint ventures   primarily due to
    declining property valuations on certain investment funds that
    carry their real estate at estimated fair value and operating
    losses incurred on properties that were developed for sale by
    development joint ventures;

Cash, cash equivalents and short-term investments  
    primarily due to declines in short-term interest rates; and

Mortgage loans   primarily due to lower prepayments on
    commercial mortgage loans and lower yields on variable rate
    loans reflecting declines in short-term interest rates.

111

Table of Contents   

Equity markets experienced some recovery in 2009, which led to
    improved yields on other limited partnership interests. As many
    of our products are interest spread-based, the lower net
    investment income was significantly offset by lower interest
    credited expense on our investment and insurance products.

The financial market conditions also resulted in a
    $348 million increase in net guaranteed annuity benefit
    costs in our Retirement Products segment, as increased hedging
    losses were only partially offset by lower guaranteed benefit
    costs.

The key driver of the increase in other expenses stemmed from
    the impact of market conditions on certain expenses, primarily
    pension and postretirement benefit costs, reinsurance expenses
    and letter of credit fees. These increases coupled with higher
    variable costs, such as commissions and premium taxes, some of
    which have been capitalized, more than offset the favorable
    impact of lower information technology, travel, professional
    services and advertising expenses, which include the impact of
    our enterprise-wide cost reduction and revenue enhancement
    initiative.

The market improvement which began in the second quarter of 2009
    was a key factor in the determination of our expected future
    gross profits, the increase of which triggered a decrease in DAC
    and DSI amortization, most significantly in the Retirement
    Products segment. The increase in our expected future gross
    profits stemmed primarily from an increase in the market value
    of our separate account balances, which is attributable, in
    part, to the improving financial markets. Our Insurance Products
    segment benefited, in the current year, from an increase in
    amortization of unearned revenue, primarily as a result of our
    annual review of assumptions that are used in the determination
    of the amount of amortization recognized. These collective
    changes in amortization resulted in a $720 million benefit,
    partially offsetting the declines in operating earnings
    available to common shareholders discussed above.

A portion of the decline in operating earnings available to
    common shareholders was caused by a $200 million reduction
    in the results of our closed block of business, a specific group
    of participating life policies that were segregated in
    connection with the demutualization of MLIC. Until early 2009,
    the operating earnings of the closed block did not have a full
    impact on operating earnings as the operating earnings or loss
    was partially offset by a change in the policyholder dividend
    obligation, a liability established at the time of
    demutualization. However, in early 2009 the policyholder
    dividend obligation was depleted and, as a result, the total
    operating earnings or loss related to the closed block for the
    year ended December 31, 2009 was, and in the future may be
    a component of operating earnings.

Business growth, from the majority of our businesses, along with
    net favorable mortality experience, had a positive impact on
    operating earnings available to common shareholders. These
    impacts were somewhat dampened by higher benefit utilization in
    our dental business and mixed claim activity in our
    Auto   Home segment. In addition, our forward and
    reverse residential mortgage platform acquisitions in late 2008
    benefited Banking, Corporate   Other s 2009
    results.

112

Table of Contents   

Insurance
    Products   

Unfavorable market conditions, which continued through 2009,
    provided a challenging business environment for our Insurance
    Products segment. This resulted in lower net investment income
    and an increase in market sensitive expenses, primarily pension
    and postretirement benefit costs. We also experienced higher
    utilization of dental benefits along with a lower number of
    recoveries in our disability business. Higher levels of
    unemployment continued to impact certain group businesses as a
    decrease in covered payrolls reduced growth. However, revenue
    growth remained solid in all of our businesses. Revenue growth
    in our dental and individual life businesses reflected strong
    sales and renewals.

The significant components of the $168 million decline in
    operating earnings were the aforementioned decline in net
    investment income, especially in the closed block business,
    partially offset by an increase in the amortization of unearned
    revenue, the impact of a reduction in dividends to certain
    policyholders and favorable mortality in the individual life
    business.

Until early 2009, the earnings of the closed block did not have
    a full impact on operating earnings as the earnings or loss was
    partially offset by a change in the policyholder dividend
    obligation. However, in early 2009 the policyholder dividend
    obligation was depleted and, as a result, the total operating
    earnings or loss related to the closed block for the year ended
    December 31, 2009 was, and in the future may be, a
    component of operating earnings. This resulted in a
    $200 million decline in operating earnings in 2009.

The decrease in net investment income of $112 million was
    primarily due to a $317 million decrease from lower yields,
    partially offset by a $205 million increase from growth in
    average invested assets. Yields were adversely impacted by the
    severe downturn in the global financial markets, which primarily
    impacted other invested assets, real estate joint ventures and
    fixed maturity securities. In addition, income from our
    securities lending program decreased primarily due to the
    smaller size of the program in 2009. The growth in the average
    invested asset base was primarily from an increase in net flows
    from our individual life, non-medical health, and group life
    businesses. The moderate recovery in equity markets in 2009 led
    to improved yields on other limited partnership interests, which
    partially offset the overall reduction in yields. To manage the
    needs of our intermediate to longer-term liabilities, our
    portfolio consists primarily of investment grade corporate fixed
    maturity securities, structured finance securities (comprised of
    mortgage and asset-backed securities), mortgage loans, and
    U.S. Treasury, agency and government guaranteed fixed
    maturity securities and, to a lesser extent, certain other
    invested asset classes

113

Table of Contents   

including real estate joint ventures and other invested assets
    to provide additional diversification and opportunity for
    long-term yield enhancement.

Other expenses were essentially flat despite an increase of
    $137 million from the impact of market conditions on
    certain expenses, primarily pension and postretirement benefit
    costs. This increase was partially offset by a decrease of
    $85 million, predominantly from declines in information
    technology, travel, and professional services, including the
    positive impact of our enterprise-wide cost reduction and
    revenue enhancement initiative. A further reduction of expenses
    was achieved through a decrease in variable expenses, such as
    commissions and premium taxes of $46 million, a portion of
    which is offset by DAC capitalization.

The aforementioned declines in operating earnings were partially
    offset by the favorable impact of a $63 million decrease in
    policyholder dividends in the traditional life business, the
    result of a dividend scale reduction in the fourth quarter of
    2009. In addition, favorable mortality in the individual life
    business was partially offset by higher benefit utilization in
    the dental business during 2009, reflecting the negative
    employment trends in the marketplace. The net impact of these
    two items benefited operating earnings by $36 million. The
    2009 results were also favorably impacted by our review of
    assumptions used to determine estimated gross profits and
    margins, which in turn are factors in determining the
    amortization for DAC and unearned revenue. This review resulted
    in an unlocking event related to unearned revenue and, coupled
    with the impact from the prior year s review, generated an
    increase in operating earnings of $82 million. This
    increase was recorded in universal life and investment-type
    product policy fees. Partially offsetting these increases was
    the impact of lower separate account balances, which resulted in
    lower fee income of $25 million.

DAC amortization reflects lower current year amortization of
    $108 million, stemming from the impact of the improvement
    in the financial markets in 2009, which increased our expected
    future gross profits, as well as lower current year gross
    margins in the closed block. This decrease was partially offset
    by the net impact of refinements in both the prior and current
    years of $98 million, the majority of which was recorded in
    the prior year as a result of the 2008 review of certain DAC
    related assumptions.

Retirement
    Products   

In 2009, Retirement Products benefited from a flight to quality,
    which contributed to a 10% improvement in combined sales of our
    fixed and variable products and a 28% reduction in surrenders
    and withdrawals. Our variable

114

Table of Contents   

annuity sales have outpaced the industry, increasing our market
    share. Fixed annuity sales benefited from enhanced marketing on
    our income annuity with life contingency products, which
    increased our premium revenues by $224 million, or 32%,
    before income taxes. In the annuity business, the movement in
    premiums is almost entirely offset by the related change in
    policyholder benefits, as the insurance liability that we
    establish at the time we assume the risk under these contracts
    is typically equivalent to the premium earned less the amount of
    acquisition expenses. Our average PAB grew by $7.2 billion
    in 2009, primarily due to an increase in sales of fixed annuity
    products and more customers electing the fixed option on
    variable annuity sales. This has a favorable impact on earnings
    by increasing net investment income, which is somewhat offset by
    higher interest credited expense. Unfavorable market conditions
    resulted in poor investment performance, which outweighed the
    impact of higher variable annuity sales on our separate account
    balances causing the average separate account balance to remain
    lower than the previous year. This resulted in lower policy fees
    and other revenues which are based on daily asset balances in
    the policyholder separate accounts.

The improvement in the financial markets was the primary driver
    of the $128 million increase in operating earnings, with
    the largest impact resulting in a decrease in DAC, VOBA and DSI
    amortization of $655 million. The 2008 results reflected
    increased, or accelerated, amortization primarily stemming from
    a decline in the market value of our separate account balances.
    A factor that determines the amount of amortization is expected
    future earnings, which in the annuity business are derived, in
    part, from fees earned on separate account balances. The market
    value of our separate account balances declined significantly in
    2008, resulting in a decrease in the expected future gross
    profits, triggering an acceleration of amortization in 2008.
    Beginning in the second quarter of 2009, the market conditions
    began to improve and the market value of our separate account
    balances began to increase, resulting in an increase in the
    expected future gross profits and a corresponding lower level of
    amortization in 2009.

Also contributing to the increase in operating earnings was an
    increase in net investment income of $308 million, which
    was primarily due to a $286 million increase from growth in
    average invested assets and a $22 million increase in
    yields. The increase in average invested assets was due to
    increased cash flows from the sales of fixed annuity products
    and more customers electing the fixed option on variable annuity
    sales, which were reinvested primarily in fixed maturity
    securities, other invested assets and mortgage loans. The
    increase in yields was due to moderate improvement in the equity
    markets in 2009 which led to an increase in yields principally
    for other limited partnership interests and certain other
    invested assets, which was partially offset by a decrease in
    yields on real estate joint ventures, reflecting the severe
    downturn in the global financial markets. To manage the needs of
    our intermediate to longer-term liabilities, our portfolio
    consists primarily of investment grade corporate fixed maturity
    securities, structured finance securities, mortgage loans and
    U.S. Treasury, agency and government guaranteed fixed
    maturity securities and, to a lesser extent, certain other
    invested asset classes, including real estate joint ventures in
    order to provide additional diversification and opportunity for
    long-term yield enhancement. As is typically the case with fixed
    annuity products, higher net investment income was somewhat
    offset by higher interest credited expense. Growth in our fixed
    annuity policyholder account balances increased interest
    credited expense by $186 million in 2009 and higher average
    crediting rates on fixed annuities increased interest credited
    expense by $27 million.

Operating earnings were negatively impacted by $348 million
    of operating losses related to the hedging programs for variable
    annuity minimum death and income benefit guarantees, which are
    not embedded derivatives, partially offset by a decrease in the
    liability established for these variable annuity guarantees. The
    various hedging strategies in place to offset the risk
    associated with these variable annuity guarantee benefits were
    more sensitive to market movements than the liability for the
    guaranteed benefit. Market volatility, improvements in the
    equity markets, and higher interest rates produced operating
    losses on these hedging strategies in the current year. Our
    hedging strategies, which are a key part of our risk management,
    performed as anticipated. The decrease in annuity guarantee
    benefit liabilities was due to the improvement in the equity
    markets, higher interest rates and the annual unlocking of
    future market expectations.

Other expenses increased by $216 million primarily due to
    an increase of $123 million from the impact of market
    conditions on certain expenses. These expenses are largely
    comprised of reinsurance costs, pension and postretirement
    benefit expenses, and letter of credit fees. In addition,
    variable expenses, such as commissions and premium taxes,
    increased $77 million, the majority of which have been
    offset by DAC capitalization. The positive impact of our
    enterprise-wide cost reduction and revenue enhancement
    initiative was reflected in lower travel,

115

Table of Contents   

professional services and advertising expenses, but was more
    than offset by increases largely due to business growth.

Finally, policy fees and other revenues decreased by
    $100 million, mainly due to lower average separate account
    balances in the current year versus prior year.

Corporate
    Benefit Funding   

Corporate Benefit Funding benefited in certain markets in 2009
    as a flight to quality helped drive our increase in market
    share, especially in the structured settlement business, where
    we experienced a 53% increase in premiums. Our pension closeout
    business in the U.K .continues to expand and experienced premium
    growth during 2009 of almost $400 million, or 105% before
    income taxes. However, this growth was more than offset by a
    decline in our domestic pension closeout business driven by
    unfavorable market conditions and regulatory changes. A
    combination of poor equity returns and lower interest rates have
    contributed to pension plans being under funded, which reduces
    our customers  flexibility to engage in transactions such
    as pension closeouts. Our customers  plans funded status
    may be affected by a variety of factors, including the ongoing
    phased implementation of the Pension Protection Act of 2006, a
    comprehensive reform of defined benefit and defined contribution
    plan rules. For each of these businesses, the movement in
    premiums is almost entirely offset by the related change in
    policyholder benefits. The insurance liability that is
    established at the time we assume the risk under these contracts
    is typically equivalent to the premium earned.

Market conditions also contributed to a lower demand for several
    of our investment-type products. The decrease in sales of these
    investment-type products is not necessarily evident in our
    results of operations as the transactions related to these
    products are recorded through the balance sheet. Our funding
    agreement products, primarily the LIBOR based contracts,
    experienced the most significant impact from the volatile market
    conditions. As companies seek greater liquidity, investment
    managers are refraining from repurchasing the contracts when
    they mature and are opting for more liquid investments. In
    addition, unfavorable market conditions continued to impact the
    demand for global guaranteed interest contracts, a type of
    funding agreement.

Policyholder account balances for our investment-type products
    were down by approximately $10 billion during 2009, as
    issuances were more than offset by scheduled maturities.
    However, due to the timing of issuances and maturities, the
    average policyholder account balances and liabilities increased
    from 2008 to 2009. The impact

116

Table of Contents   

of the decrease in policyholder account balances resulted in
    lower net investment income, which was somewhat offset by lower
    interest credited expense.

The primary driver of the $346 million decrease in
    operating earnings was lower net investment income of
    $707 million reflecting a $682 million decrease from
    lower yields and a $25 million increase due to growth in
    average invested assets. Yields were adversely impacted by the
    severe downturn in the global financial markets which impacted
    real estate joint ventures, fixed maturity securities, other
    invested assets and mortgage loans. In addition, income from our
    securities lending program decreased, primarily due to the
    smaller size of the program during the year. To manage the needs
    of our longer-term liabilities, our portfolio consists primarily
    of investment grade corporate fixed maturity securities,
    mortgage loans, U.S. Treasury, agency and government
    guaranteed securities and, to a lesser extent, certain other
    invested asset classes including real estate joint ventures in
    order to provide additional diversification and opportunity for
    long-term yield enhancement. For our shorter-term obligations,
    we invest primarily in structured finance securities, mortgage
    loans and investment grade corporate fixed maturity securities.
    The yields on these investments have moved consistent with the
    underlying market indices, primarily LIBOR and Treasury, on
    which they are based. The growth in the average invested asset
    base is consistent with the increase in the average policyholder
    account balances and liabilities.

As many of our products are interest spread-based, the lower net
    investment income was somewhat offset by lower net interest
    credited expense of $380 million. The decrease in interest
    credited expense is attributed to $431 million from lower
    crediting rates. Crediting rates have moved consistent with the
    underlying market indices, primarily LIBOR, on which they are
    based. The increase in the average policyholder account balances
    resulted in a $51 million increase in interest credited
    expense.

The year over year decline in operating earnings was also due in
    part to lower other revenues as the prior year benefited by
    $44 million in fees for the cancellation of a bank owned
    life insurance stable value wrap policy combined with the
    surrender of a global guaranteed interest contract. In addition,
    a refinement to a reinsurance recoverable in the small business
    record keeping line of business in the latter part of 2009 also
    contributed $20 million to the decrease in operating
    earnings.

Current year results benefited from favorable liability
    refinements as compared to unfavorable liability refinements in
    2008, as well as improved mortality experience in the current
    year, all in the pension closeouts business. These items
    improved 2009 operating earnings by approximately
    $90 million. Other products generated mortality gains or
    losses; however, the net change did not have a material impact
    on our year over year results.

Although our other expenses only increased marginally and are
    not a significant driver of the decrease in operating earnings,
    the general themes associated with the increase are consistent
    with those factors discussed above in the discussion of our
    consolidated results of operations. Market conditions triggered
    an increase in our pension and postretirement benefit expenses
    of $26 million. In addition, variable expenses, such as
    commissions and premium taxes, have increased $20 million.
    These increases were partially offset by a decrease of
    $36 million, primarily in information technology, travel
    and professional services expenses, all of which were largely
    due to our enterprise-wide cost reduction and revenue
    enhancement initiative.

117

Table of Contents   

Auto  
    Home   

Auto   Home was negatively impacted in 2009 by a
    declining housing market, the deterioration of the new auto
    sales market and the continuation of credit availability issues,
    all of which contributed to a decrease in insured exposures in
    2009. Average premiums per policy increased slightly for our
    homeowners  policies but decreased for auto policies,
    primarily as a result of a business shift in insured exposures
    by state. In particular, we experienced a large decrease in
    earned exposures in Massachusetts, whose market was impacted by
    a regulatory change, which resulted in a marked increase in
    competition.

A return to more normal weather conditions in 2009 resulted in
    fewer, and less severe, catastrophe events than in 2008. This
    was more than offset by an increase in both non-catastrophe
    claim frequencies and non-catastrophe claim severities in 2009.

Mixed claim experience and the impact of lower exposures were
    the primary drivers of the $41 million decrease in
    operating earnings. While we had a $90 million decrease in
    catastrophe-related losses compared to the prior year, we also
    recorded $68 million less of a benefit in 2009 from
    favorable development of prior year non-catastrophe losses.
    Current year claim costs rose primarily as a result of a
    $29 million increase in claim frequency from both our auto
    and homeowners products. In addition, we had a $15 million
    net increase in claim severity, stemming from higher severity in
    our auto line of business that was partially offset by lower
    severity in our homeowners line of business. In 2009, we
    experienced a decline in insured exposures, which contributed
    approximately $16 million to the decrease in operating
    earnings. While this decrease in exposures had a positive impact
    on the amount of claims, it was more than offset by the negative
    impact on premiums. The decrease in exposures is largely
    attributable to slightly higher non-renewal rates, partially
    offset by greater sales of new policies. Also contributing to
    the decline in earnings was a decrease of $9 million in the
    average premium per policy, which is primarily due to a shift in
    earned exposures to lower average premium states and an increase
    of $10 million in loss adjustment expenses, primarily
    related to a decrease in unallocated loss adjusting expense
    liabilities at the end of 2008.

The impact of the items discussed above can be seen in the
    unfavorable change in the combined ratio, excluding
    catastrophes, to 88.9% in 2009 from 83.1% in 2008 and the
    unfavorable change in the combined ratio, including
    catastrophes, to 92.3% in 2009 from 91.2% in 2008.

A $25 million decrease in other expenses, including the net
    change in DAC, partially offset the declines in operating
    earnings discussed above. This improvement resulted from
    decreases in sales-related expenses and from minor fluctuations
    in a number of expense categories, a portion of which is due to
    our enterprise-wide cost reduction and revenue enhancement
    initiative.

118

Table of Contents   

Also contributing to the decrease in operating earnings was a
    decline in net investment income of $4 million which was
    primarily due to a $9 million decrease from a decline in
    average invested assets, partially offset by an increase of
    $5 million due to improved yields.

International   

An improvement in the global financial markets contributed to a
    recovery of sales in the majority of our International regions
    and resulted in improved investment performance in some regions
    during the second half of 2009. Sales in Asia Pacific were down
    primarily from a decrease in variable annuity sales in Japan,
    primarily as a result of pricing actions we took during the
    latter half of 2009. This decline was somewhat offset by growth
    in South Korea s fixed annuities product and an increase of
    variable universal life sales, which are indications that
    markets are beginning to recover. We experienced growth in the
    pension, group life, and medical businesses of our Latin America
    region, specifically in Mexico. Our operations in Europe and the
    Middle East continue to have strong growth in the European
    variable annuity business.

The reduction in operating earnings includes the adverse impact
    of changes in foreign currency exchange rates in 2009 as the
    U.S. dollar strengthened against the various foreign
    currencies. This decreased operating earnings by
    $99 million in 2009 relative to 2008. Excluding the impact
    of changes in foreign currency exchange rates, operating
    earnings increased $83 million, or 22%, from the prior
    year. This increase was primarily driven by higher operating
    earnings of $184 million in our Asia Pacific region, while
    operating earnings from our Latin America and Europe and Middle
    East decreased by $83 million and $18 million,
    respectively.

Asia Pacific.   Improving financial market
    conditions was the primary driver of the increase in operating
    earnings. net investment income in the region increased by
    $422 million due to an increase of $278 million from
    improved yields on our investment portfolio, $111 million
    from the change in results of operating joint ventures, and
    $33 million from an increase in average invested assets.
    The increase in yields was primarily due to higher income of
    $277 million on the trading and other securities portfolio,
    stemming from equity markets experiencing some recovery in 2009.
    As our trading and other securities portfolio backs unit-linked
    policyholder liabilities, this increase in income was entirely
    offset by a corresponding increase in interest credited expense.
    The income of the Japan joint venture improved by
    $103 million due to favorable investment results and lower
    amortization of DAC and VOBA. The decrease in DAC and VOBA
    amortization was primarily due to an increase in the market
    value of

119

Table of Contents   

the joint venture s separate account balances, which is
    directly tied to the improving financial markets. A factor that
    determines the amount of DAC and VOBA amortization is expected
    future fees earned on separate account balances. Since the
    market value of separate account balances have increased, it is
    expected that future earnings on this block of business will be
    higher than previously anticipated. As a result, the
    amortization of DAC and VOBA was less in the current year.

Operating earnings in this region also benefited from higher
    surrender charges of $16 million. Difficult economic
    conditions in South Korea during the first half of the year
    resulted in a higher level of surrenders. Growth in our Japan
    reinsurance business and an increase in reinsurance rates
    contributed $21 million to the increase in operating
    earnings. In addition, the favorable impact of a reduction in
    the liability for our variable annuity guarantees contributed
    $22 million to operating earnings. The change in the
    liability was primarily due to an increase in separate account
    balances in the Japan joint venture. These liabilities are
    accrued over the life of the contract in proportion to actual
    and future expected policy assessments based on the level of
    guaranteed minimum benefits generated using multiple scenarios
    of separate account returns. The scenarios use best estimate
    assumptions consistent with those used to amortize DAC. Because
    separate account balances have had positive returns relative to
    the prior year, current estimates of future benefits are lower
    than that previously projected which resulted in a decrease in
    this liability in the current period. Partially offsetting these
    increases, higher DAC amortization of $49 million resulted
    from business growth and favorable investment results.

Latin America.   The decrease in operating
    earnings was primarily driven by lower net investment income.
    Net investment income decreased by $297 million due to a
    decrease of $383 million from lower yields, partially
    offset by an increase of $86 million due to an increase in
    average invested assets. The decrease in yields was due, in
    part, to the impact of changes in assumptions for measuring the
    effects of inflation on certain inflation-indexed fixed maturity
    securities. This decrease was partially offset by a reduction of
    $221 million in the related insurance liability primarily
    due to lower inflation. The increase in net investment income
    attributable to an increase in average invested assets was
    primarily due to business growth and, as such, was largely
    offset by increases in policyholder benefits and interest
    credited expense.

Higher claims experience in Mexico resulted in a
    $45 million decline in operating earnings. The
    nationalization and reform of the pension business in Argentina
    impacted both years earnings, resulting in a net
    $36 million decline in operating earnings. In addition,
    operating earnings decreased due to a net income tax increase of
    $8 million in Mexico, resulting from a change in assumption
    regarding the repatriation of earnings, partially offset by the
    favorable impact of a lower effective tax rate in 2009.

Partially offsetting these decreases in operating earnings was
    the combination of growth in Mexico s individual and
    institutional businesses and higher premium rates in its
    institutional business, which increased operating earnings by
    $51 million. Pesification in Argentina impacted both the
    current year and prior year earnings, resulting in a net
    $73 million increase in operating earnings. This benefit
    was largely due to a reassessment of our approach in managing
    existing and potential future claims related to certain social
    security pension annuity contract holders in Argentina resulting
    in a liability release. Lower expenses of $8 million
    resulted primarily from the impact of operational efficiencies
    achieved through our enterprise-wide cost reduction and revenue
    enhancement initiative.

Europe and Middle East.   The impact of foreign
    currency transaction gains and a tax benefit, both of which
    occurred in the prior year, contributed $12 million to the
    decline in operating earnings. Our investment of $9 million
    in our distribution capability and growth initiatives in 2009
    also reduced operating earnings. There was an increase in net
    investment income of $76 million, which was due to an
    increase of $65 million from an improvement in yields and
    $11 million from an increase in average invested assets.
    The increase in yields was primarily due to favorable results on
    the trading and other securities portfolio, stemming from the
    equity markets experiencing some recovery in 2009. As our
    trading and other securities portfolio backs unit-linked
    policyholder liabilities, the trading and other securities
    portfolio results were entirely offset by a corresponding
    increase in interest credited expense. The increase in net
    investment income attributable to an increase in average
    invested assets was primarily due to business growth and was
    largely offset by increases in policyholder benefits and
    interest credited expense, also due to business growth.

120

Table of Contents   

Banking,
    Corporate   Other   

Banking, Corporate   Other recognized the full year
    impact of our forward and reverse residential mortgage platform
    acquisitions, a strong residential mortgage refinance market,
    healthy growth in the reverse mortgage arena, and a favorable
    interest spread environment. Our forward and reverse residential
    mortgage production of $37.4 billion in 2009 was up 484%
    compared to 2008 production. The increase in mortgage production
    drove higher investments in residential mortgage loans
     held-for-sale 
    and MSRs. At December 31, 2009, our residential mortgage
    loans servicing portfolio was $64.1 billion comprised of
    agency (FNMA, FHLMC, and GNMA) portfolios. Transaction and time
    deposits, which provide a relatively stable source of funding
    and liquidity and are used to fund loans and fixed income
    securities purchases, grew 48% in 2009 to $10.2 billion.
    Borrowings decreased 10% in 2009 to $2.4 billion. During
    2009, we participated in the Federal Reserve Bank of New York
    Term Auction Facility, which provided short term liquidity with
    low funding costs.

In response to the economic crisis and unusual financial market
    events that occurred in 2008 and continued into 2009, we decided
    to utilize excess debt capacity. The Holding Company completed
    three debt issuances in 2009. The Holding Company issued
    $397 million of floating rate senior notes in March 2009,
    $1.3 billion of senior notes in May 2009, and
    $500 million of junior subordinated debt securities in July
    2009. In February 2009, in connection with the initial
    settlement of the stock purchase contracts issued as part of the
    common equity units sold in June 2005, the Holding Company
    issued common stock for $1.0 billion. The proceeds from
    these equity and debt issuances were used for general corporate
    purposes and have resulted in increased investments and cash and
    cash equivalents held within Banking, Corporate  
    Other.

Operating earnings available to common shareholders improved by
    $114 million, of which $254 million was due to MetLife
    Bank and its acquisitions of a residential mortgage origination
    and servicing business and a reverse mortgage business, both
    during 2008. Excluding the impact of MetLife Bank, our operating
    earnings available to common shareholders decreased
    $140 million, primarily due to lower net investment income,
    partially offset by the impact of a lower effective tax rate.
    The lower effective tax rate provided an increased benefit of
    $139 million from the prior year. This benefit was the
    result of a partial settlement of certain prior year tax audit
    issues and increased utilization of tax preferenced investments,
    which provide tax credits and deductions.

121

Table of Contents   

Excluding a $68 million increase from MetLife Bank, net
    investment income decreased $283 million, which was
    primarily due a decrease of $287 million due to lower
    yields, partially offset by an increase of $4 million due
    to an increase in average invested assets. Consistent with the
    consolidated results of operations discussion above, yields were
    adversely impacted by the severe downturn in the global
    financial markets, which primarily impacted fixed maturity
    securities and real estate joint ventures. The increased average
    invested asset base was due to cash flows from debt issuances
    during 2009. Our investments primarily include structured
    finance securities, investment grade corporate fixed maturity
    securities, U.S. Treasury, agency and government guaranteed
    fixed maturity securities and mortgage loans. In addition, our
    investment portfolio includes the excess capital not allocated
    to the segments. Accordingly, it includes a higher allocation of
    certain other invested asset classes to provide additional
    diversification and opportunity for long-term yield enhancement
    including leveraged leases, other limited partnership interests,
    real estate, real estate joint ventures and equity securities.

After excluding the impact of a $394 million increase from
    MetLife Bank, other expenses increased by $20 million.
    Deferred compensation costs, which are tied to equity market
    performance, were higher due to a significant market rebound. We
    also had an increase in costs associated with the implementation
    of our enterprise-wide cost reduction and revenue enhancement
    initiative. These increases were partially offset by lower
    postemployment related costs and corporate-related expenses,
    specifically legal costs. Legal costs were lower largely due to
    the prior year commutation of asbestos policies. In addition,
    interest expense declined slightly as a result of rate
    reductions on variable rate collateral financing arrangements
    offset by debt issuances in 2009 and 2008.

Effects
    of Inflation  

The Company does not believe that inflation has had a material
    effect on its consolidated results of operations, except insofar
    as inflation may affect interest rates.

Inflation in the U.S. has remained contained and been in a
    general downward trend for an extended period. However, in light
    of recent and ongoing aggressive fiscal and monetary stimulus
    measures by the U.S. federal government and foreign
    governments, it is possible that inflation could increase in the
    future. Globally, inflation trends can vary by region and
    between developed and emerging markets. The Japanese economy, to
    which we face increased exposure as a result of the Acquisition,
    continues to experience low nominal growth and a deflationary
    environment. As the global economy improves, inflation trends
    are increasing in other regions, particularly in emerging
    markets like China and India. In the more developed Eurozone
    countries, inflation rates, while not as high, have trended
    upward at a greater pace than in the U.S.

An increase in inflation could affect our business in several
    ways. During inflationary periods, the value of fixed income
    investments falls which could increase realized and unrealized
    losses. Inflation also increases expenses for labor and other
    materials, potentially putting pressure on profitability if such
    costs can not be passed through in our product prices. Inflation
    could also lead to increased costs for losses and loss
    adjustment expenses in certain of our businesses, which could
    require us to adjust our pricing to reflect our expectations for
    future inflation. Prolonged and elevated inflation could
    adversely affect the financial markets and the economy
    generally, and dispelling it may require governments to pursue a
    restrictive fiscal and monetary policy, which could constrain
    overall economic activity, inhibit revenue growth and reduce the
    number of attractive investment opportunities.

Investments  

Investment Risks.   The Company s primary
    investment objective is to optimize, net of income tax,
    risk-adjusted investment income and risk-adjusted total return
    while ensuring that assets and liabilities are managed on a cash
    flow and duration basis. The Company is exposed to four primary
    sources of investment risk:

credit risk, relating to the uncertainty associated with the
    continued ability of a given obligor to make timely payments of
    principal and interest;

interest rate risk, relating to the market price and cash flow
    variability associated with changes in market interest rates;

122

Table of Contents   

liquidity risk, relating to the diminished ability to sell
    certain investments in times of strained market
    conditions; and

market valuation risk, relating to the variability in the
    estimated fair value of investments associated with changes in
    market factors such as credit spreads.

The Company manages risk through in-house fundamental analysis
    of the underlying obligors, issuers, transaction structures and
    real estate properties. The Company also manages credit risk,
    market valuation risk and liquidity risk through industry and
    issuer diversification and asset allocation. For real estate and
    agricultural assets, the Company manages credit risk and market
    valuation risk through geographic, property type and product
    type diversification and asset allocation. The Company manages
    interest rate risk as part of its asset and liability management
    strategies; product design, such as the use of market value
    adjustment features and surrender charges; and proactive
    monitoring and management of certain non-guaranteed elements of
    its products, such as the resetting of credited interest and
    dividend rates for policies that permit such adjustments. The
    Company also uses certain derivative instruments in the
    management of credit, interest rate, currency and equity market
    risks.

Current Environment.   The global economy and
    markets are now recovering from a period of significant stress
    that began in the second half of 2007 and substantially
    increased through the first quarter of 2009. This disruption
    adversely affected the financial services industry, in
    particular. The U.S. economy entered a recession in late
    2007. This recession ended in mid-2009, but the recovery from
    the recession has been below historic averages and the
    unemployment rate is expected to remain high for some time. In
    addition, inflation has fallen over the last several years and
    is expected to remain at low levels for some time. Some
    economists believe that some level of disinflation and deflation
    risk remains in the U.S. economy.

Although the disruption in the global financial markets has
    moderated, not all such markets are functioning normally, and
    some remain reliant upon government intervention and liquidity.
    The global recession and disruption of the financial markets has
    also led to concerns over capital markets access and the
    solvency of certain European Union member states, including
    Portugal, Ireland, Italy, Greece and Spain. The Japanese
    economy, to which we face increased exposure to as a result of
    the Acquisition, continues to experience low nominal growth, a
    deflationary environment, and weak consumer spending. See
       Industry Trends.  See also
     Investments   Fixed Maturity and Equity
    Securities
     Available-for-Sale   
    Concentrations of Credit Risk (Fixed Maturity
    Securities)   Summary  in Note 3 of the
    Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for information about
    exposure to sovereign fixed maturity securities of Portugal,
    Ireland, Italy, Greece and Spain.

During the year ended December 31, 2010, the net unrealized
    loss position on fixed maturity and equity securities improved
    from a net unrealized loss of $2.2 billion at
    December 31, 2009 to a net unrealized gain of
    $7.3 billion at December 31, 2010, as a result of a
    decrease in interest rates, and to a lesser extent, a decrease
    in credit spreads.

Investment Outlook.   Recovering private equity
    markets and stabilizing credit and real estate markets during
    2010 had a positive impact on returns and net investment income
    on private equity funds, hedge funds and real estate funds,
    which are included within other limited partnership interests
    and real estate and real estate joint venture portfolios.
    Although the disruption in the global financial markets has
    moderated, if there is a resumption of significant disruption,
    it could adversely impact returns and net investment income on
    these alternative investment classes. Net cash flows arising
    from our business and our investment portfolio will be
    reinvested in a prudent manner and according to our ALM
    discipline in appropriate assets over time. We will maintain a
    sufficient level of liquidity to meet business needs. Net
    investment income may be adversely affected if excess liquidity
    is required over an extended period of time to meet changing
    business needs.

123

Table of Contents   

Composition
    of Investment Portfolio and Investment Portfolio
    Results  

The following yield table presents the investment income,
    investment portfolio gains (losses), annualized yields on
    average ending assets and ending carrying value for each of the
    asset classes within the Company s investment portfolio, as
    well as investment income and investment portfolio gains
    (losses) for the investment portfolio as a whole. The yield
    table also presents gains (losses) on derivative instruments
    which are used to manage risk for certain invested assets and
    certain insurance liabilities:

124

Table of Contents   

As described in the footnotes below, the yield table reflects
    certain differences from the presentation of invested assets,
    net investment income, net investment gains (losses) and net
    derivative gains (losses) as presented in the consolidated
    balance sheets and consolidated statements of operations,
    including the exclusion of contractholder-directed unit-linked
    investments classified within trading and other securities, as
    the contractholder, not the Company, directs the investment of
    the funds; and the exclusion of the effects of consolidating
    under GAAP certain VIEs that are consolidated securitization
    entities ( CSEs ). We believe this yield table
    presentation is consistent with how we measure our investment
    performance for management purposes enhances understanding. 

(1) 

Yields are based on average of quarterly average asset carrying
    values, excluding recognized and unrealized investment gains
    (losses), collateral received from counterparties associated
    with our securities lending program, the effects of
    consolidating under GAAP certain VIEs that are treated as CSEs
    and, effective October 1, 2010, contractholder-directed
    unit-linked investments. Yields also exclude investment income
    recognized on mortgage loans and securities held by CSEs and,
    effective October 1, 2010, contractholder-directed
    unit-linked investments.

(2) 

Fixed maturity securities include $594 million,
    $2,384 million and $946 million at estimated fair
    value of trading and other securities at December 31, 2010,
    2009 and 2008, respectively. Fixed maturity securities include
    $234 million, $400 million and ($193) million of
    investment income related to trading and other securities for
    the years ended December 31, 2010, 2009 and 2008,
    respectively.

(3) 

(a) Fixed maturity securities ending carrying values as
    presented herein, exclude (i) contractholder-directed
    unit-linked investments   reported within trading and
    other securities of $17,794 million, and
    (ii) securities held by CSEs that are consolidated under
    GAAP   reported within trading and other securities of
    $201 million at December 31, 2010. Net investment
    income as presented herein, excludes investment income on
    contractholder-directed unit-linked investments  
    reported within trading and other securities effective
    October 1, 2010 as shown in footnote (6) to this yield
    table.

(b) Ending carrying values, investment income and
    investment gains (losses) as presented herein, exclude the
    effects of consolidating under GAAP certain VIEs that are
    treated as CSEs. The adjustment to investment income and
    investment gains (losses) in the aggregate are as shown in
    footnote (6) to this yield table. The adjustments to ending
    carrying value, investment income and investment gains (losses)
    by invested asset class are presented below. Both the invested
    assets and long-term debt of the CSEs are accounted for under
    the FVO. The adjustment to investment gains (losses) presented
    below and in footnote (6) to this yield table includes the
    effects of remeasuring both the invested assets and long-term
    debt in accordance with the FVO.

125

Table of Contents   

(4) 

Investment income from fixed maturity securities and mortgage
    loans includes prepayment fees.

(5) 

Other invested assets are principally comprised of freestanding
    derivatives with positive estimated fair values and leveraged
    leases. Freestanding derivatives with negative estimated fair
    values are included within other liabilities. However, the
    accruals of settlement payments in other liabilities are
    included in net investment income as shown in Note 4 of the
    Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements. As yield is not
    considered a meaningful measure of performance for other
    invested assets, it has been excluded from the yield table.

(6) 

Investment income, investment portfolio gains (losses) and
    derivative gains (losses) presented in this yield table vary
    from the most directly comparable measures presented in the GAAP
    consolidated statements of operations due to certain
    reclassifications affecting net investment income, net
    investment gains (losses), net derivative gains (losses), and
    interest credited to PABs and to exclude the effects of
    consolidating under GAAP certain VIEs that are treated as CSEs.
    Such reclassifications are presented in the tables below.

Years Ended December 31, 

2010 

2009 

2008 

(In millions) 

Investment income   in the above yield table

$

17,321

$

15,089

$

16,200

Real estate discontinued operations   deduct from net
    investment income

10

(8

)

(11

)

Scheduled periodic settlement payments on derivatives not
    qualifying for hedge accounting   deduct from net
    investment income, add to net derivative gains (losses)

(208

)

(88

)

(5

)

Equity method operating joint ventures   add to net
    investment income, deduct from net derivative gains (losses)

(130

)

(156

)

105

Net investment income on contractholder-directed unit-linked
    investments   reported within trading and other
    securities   add to net investment income

211

Incremental net investment income from CSEs  add to
    net investment income

411

Net investment income   GAAP consolidated statements
    of operations

$

17,615

$

14,837

$

16,289

Investment portfolio gains (losses)   in the above
    yield table

$

(193

)

$

(3,042

)

$

(2,175

)

Real estate discontinued operations   deduct from net
    investment gains (losses)

(14

)

(8

)

(8

)

Investment gains (losses) related to CSEs   add to net
    investment gains (losses)

6

Purchased credit default swaps that offset losses incurred on
    certain fixed maturity securities   deduct from net
    investment gains (losses)

(183

)

Other gains (losses)   add to net investment gains
    (losses)

(191

)

144

268

Net investment gains (losses)   GAAP consolidated
    statements of operations

$

(392

)

$

(2,906

)

$

(2,098

)

Derivative gains (losses)   in the above yield table

$

(614

)

$

(5,106

)

$

3,782

Scheduled periodic settlement payments on derivatives not
    qualifying for hedge accounting   add to net
    derivative gains (losses), deduct from net investment income

208

88

5

Scheduled periodic settlement payments on derivatives not
    qualifying for hedge accounting   add to net
    derivative gains (losses), deduct from interest credited to PABs

11

(4

)

45

Purchased credit default swaps that offset losses incurred on
    certain fixed maturity securities   add to net
    derivative gains (losses)

183

Equity method operating joint ventures   add to net
    investment income, deduct from net derivative gains (losses)

130

156

(105

)

Net derivative gains (losses)   GAAP consolidated
    statements of operations

$

(265

)

$

(4,866

)

$

3,910

126

Table of Contents   

See    Results of Operations   Year
    Ended December 31, 2010 compared with the Year Ended
    December 31, 2009 and Year Ended December 31, 2009
    compared with the Year Ended December 31, 2008,  for
    an analysis of the year over year changes in net investment
    income and net investment gains (losses) and net derivative
    gains (losses).

Fixed
    Maturity and Equity Securities
     Available-for-Sale    

Fixed maturity securities, which consisted principally of
    publicly-traded and privately placed fixed maturity securities,
    were $327.3 billion and $227.6 billion, or 69% and 67%
    of total cash and invested assets at estimated fair value, at
    December 31, 2010 and 2009, respectively. Publicly-traded
    fixed maturity securities represented $286.5 billion and
    $191.4 billion, or 88% and 84% of total fixed maturity
    securities at estimated fair value, at December 31, 2010
    and 2009, respectively. Privately placed fixed maturity
    securities represented $40.8 billion and
    $36.2 billion, or 12% and 16% of total fixed maturity
    securities at estimated fair value, at December 31, 2010
    and 2009, respectively.

Equity securities, which consisted principally of
    publicly-traded and privately-held common and preferred stocks,
    including certain perpetual hybrid securities and mutual fund
    interests, were $3.6 billion and $3.1 billion, or 0.8%
    and 0.9% of total cash and invested assets at estimated fair
    value, at December 31, 2010 and 2009, respectively.
    Publicly-traded equity securities represented $2.3 billion
    and $2.1 billion, or 64% and 68% of total equity securities
    at estimated fair value, at December 31, 2010 and 2009,
    respectively. Privately-held equity securities represented
    $1.3 billion and $1.0 billion, or 36% and 32% of total
    equity securities at estimated fair value, at December 31,
    2010 and 2009, respectively.

Valuation of Securities.   We are responsible
    for the determination of estimated fair value. The estimated
    fair value of publicly-traded fixed maturity, equity and trading
    and other securities, as well as short-term securities is
    determined by management after considering one of three primary
    sources of information: quoted market prices in active markets,
    independent pricing services, or independent broker quotations.
    The number of quotes obtained varies by instrument and depends
    on the liquidity of the particular instrument. Generally, we
    obtain prices from multiple pricing services to cover all asset
    classes and obtain multiple prices for certain securities, but
    ultimately utilize the price with the highest placement in the
    fair value hierarchy. Independent pricing services that value
    these instruments use market standard valuation methodologies
    based on inputs that are market observable or can be derived
    principally from or corroborated by observable market data. Such
    observable inputs include benchmarking prices for similar assets
    in active, liquid markets, quoted prices in markets that are not
    active and observable yields and spreads in the market. The
    market standard valuation methodologies utilized include:
    discounted cash flow methodologies, matrix pricing or similar
    techniques. The assumptions and inputs in applying these market
    standard valuation methodologies include, but are not limited
    to, interest rates, credit standing of the issuer or
    counterparty, industry sector of the issuer, coupon rate, call
    provisions, sinking fund requirements, maturity, estimated
    duration, and management s assumptions regarding liquidity
    and estimated future cash flows. When a price is not available
    in the active market or through an independent pricing service,
    management will value the security primarily using independent
    non-binding broker quotations. Independent non-binding broker
    quotations utilize inputs that are not market observable or
    cannot be derived principally from or corroborated by observable
    market data.

Senior management, independent of the trading and investing
    functions, is responsible for the oversight of control systems
    and valuation policies, including reviewing and approving new
    transaction types and markets, for ensuring that observable
    market prices and market-based parameters are used for
    valuation, wherever possible, and for determining that
    judgmental valuation adjustments, if any, are based upon
    established policies and are applied consistently over time. We
    review our valuation methodologies on an ongoing basis and
    ensure that any changes to valuation methodologies are
    justified. We gain assurance on the overall reasonableness and
    consistent application of input assumptions, valuation
    methodologies and compliance with accounting standards for fair
    value determination through various controls designed to ensure
    that the financial assets and financial liabilities are
    appropriately valued and represent an exit price. The control
    systems and procedures include, but are not limited to, analysis
    of portfolio returns to corresponding benchmark returns,
    comparing a sample of executed prices of securities sold to the
    fair value estimates, comparing fair value estimates to
    management s knowledge of the current market, reviewing the
    bid/ask spreads to assess activity and ongoing confirmation that
    independent pricing services use, wherever possible,
    market-based parameters for valuation. We determine the
    observability of inputs used in

127

Table of Contents   

estimated fair values received from independent pricing services
    or brokers by assessing whether these inputs can be corroborated
    by observable market data. The Company also follows a formal
    process to challenge any prices received from independent
    pricing services that are not considered representative of
    estimated fair value. If we conclude that prices received from
    independent pricing services are not reflective of market
    activity or representative of estimated fair value, we will seek
    independent non-binding broker quotes or use an internally
    developed valuation to override these prices. Such overrides are
    classified as Level 3. Despite the credit events prevalent
    since the second half of 2007 described above, including market
    dislocation, volatility in valuation of certain investments, and
    reduced levels of liquidity, which has since moderated but is
    still present in certain portions of the global financial
    markets and in certain asset sectors, our internally developed
    valuations of current estimated fair value, which reflect our
    estimates of liquidity and non-performance risks, compared with
    pricing received from the independent pricing services, did not
    produce material differences for the vast majority of our fixed
    maturity securities portfolio. Our estimates of liquidity and
    non-performance risks are generally based on available market
    evidence and on what other market participants would use. In the
    absence of such evidence, management s best estimate is
    used. As a result, we generally continued to use the price
    provided by the independent pricing service under our normal
    pricing protocol and pricing overrides were not material. The
    Company uses the results of this analysis for classifying the
    estimated fair value of these instruments in Level 1, 2 or
    3. For example, we will review the estimated fair values
    received to determine whether corroborating evidence (i.e.,
    similar observable positions and actual trades) will support a
    Level 2 classification in the fair value hierarchy.
    Security prices which cannot be corroborated due to relatively
    less pricing transparency and diminished liquidity will be
    classified as Level 3. Even some of our very high quality
    invested assets have been more illiquid for periods of time as a
    result of the market conditions described above.

For privately placed fixed maturity securities, the Company
    determines the estimated fair value generally through matrix
    pricing, discounted cash flow techniques or from independent
    pricing services after assessing that the observability of
    inputs used can be corroborated with observable market data. The
    discounted cash flow valuations rely upon the estimated future
    cash flows of the security, credit spreads of comparable public
    securities and secondary transactions, as well as taking into
    account, among other factors, the credit quality of the issuer
    and the reduced liquidity associated with privately placed debt
    securities.

The Company has reviewed the significance and observability of
    inputs used in the valuation methodologies to determine the
    appropriate fair value hierarchy level for each of its
    securities. Based on the results of this review and investment
    class analyses, each instrument is categorized as Level 1,
    2 or 3 based on the priority of the inputs to the respective
    valuation methodologies. Certain U.S. Treasury, agency and
    government guaranteed fixed maturity securities, certain foreign
    government fixed maturity securities, residential
    mortgage-backed securities ( RMBS ), principally
    to-be-announced securities, exchange-traded common stock and
    mutual fund interests, registered mutual fund interests priced
    using daily net asset value provided by fund managers included
    within trading and other securities, certain other securities
    classified as trading and other securities which are similar to
    the above described fixed maturity and equity securities and
    certain short-term money market securities, including
    U.S. Treasury bills, have been classified into Level 1
    because of high volumes of trading activity and narrow bid/ask
    spreads. Most securities valued by independent pricing services
    have been classified into Level 2 because the significant
    inputs used in pricing these securities are market observable or
    can be corroborated using market observable information. Most
    investment grade privately placed fixed maturity securities and
    certain below investment grade privately placed fixed maturity
    securities priced by independent pricing services that use
    observable inputs have been classified within Level 2.
    Distressed privately placed fixed maturity securities have been
    classified within Level 3. Below investment grade privately
    placed fixed maturity securities and less liquid securities with
    very limited trading activity where estimated fair values are
    determined by independent pricing services or by independent
    non-binding broker quotations that use unobservable inputs or
    cannot be derived principally from or corroborated by observable
    market data, are classified as Level 3. Use of independent
    non-binding broker quotations generally indicates there is a
    lack of liquidity or the general lack of transparency in the
    process to develop these price estimates causing them to be
    considered Level 3.

Effective April 1, 2009, the Company adopted accounting
    guidance that clarified existing guidance regarding
    (1) estimating the estimated fair value of an asset or
    liability if there was a significant decrease in the volume and
    level of trading activity for these assets or liabilities and
    (2) identifying transactions that are not orderly. The

128

Table of Contents   

Company s valuation policies as described above and in
       Summary of Critical Accounting
    Estimates   Estimated Fair Values of Investments 
    already incorporated the key concepts from this additional
    guidance, accordingly, this guidance results in no material
    changes in our valuation policies. At April 1, 2009 and at
    each subsequent quarterly period in 2009 and 2010, we evaluated
    the markets that our fixed maturity and equity securities trade
    in and in our judgment, despite the increased illiquidity
    discussed above, believe none of these fixed maturity and equity
    securities trading markets should be characterized as distressed
    and disorderly. We will continue to re-evaluate and monitor such
    fixed maturity and equity securities trading markets on an
    ongoing basis.

Fair Value Hierarchy.   Fixed maturity
    securities and equity securities
     available-for-sale 
    measured at estimated fair value on a recurring basis and their
    corresponding fair value pricing sources and fair value
    hierarchy are as follows:

129

Table of Contents   

The composition of fair value pricing sources for and
    significant changes in Level 3 securities at
    December 31, 2010 are as follows:

The majority of the Level 3 fixed maturity and equity
    securities (84%, as presented above) were concentrated in four
    sectors: U.S. and foreign corporate securities, ABS and
    foreign government securities.

Level 3 fixed maturity securities are priced principally
    through market standard valuation methodologies, independent
    pricing services and independent non-binding broker quotations
    using inputs that are not market observable or cannot be derived
    principally from or corroborated by observable market data.
    Level 3 fixed maturity securities consists of less liquid
    fixed maturity securities with very limited trading activity or
    where less price transparency exists around the inputs to the
    valuation methodologies including alternative residential
    mortgage loan RMBS and less liquid prime RMBS, certain below
    investment grade private placements and less liquid investment
    grade corporate securities (included in U.S. and foreign
    corporate securities) and less liquid ABS including securities
    supported by
     sub-prime 
    mortgage loans (included in ABS).

During the year ended December 31, 2010, Level 3 fixed
    maturity securities increased by $371 million, or 2%,
    excluding the impact of the Acquisition, and
    $5,605 million, or 33%, including the impact of the
    Acquisition. The Level 3 fixed maturity securities acquired
    from ALICO of $5,435 million have been included in
    purchases, sales, issuances and settlements in the table below.
    The increase was driven by net purchases in excess of sales and
    increases in estimated fair value recognized in other
    comprehensive income (loss). Net purchases in excess of sales of
    fixed maturity securities were concentrated in foreign
    government and ABS. The increase in estimated fair value in
    fixed maturity securities was concentrated in U.S. and
    foreign corporate securities and ABS (including RMBS backed by
     sub-prime 
    mortgage loans) due to improving or stabilizing market
    conditions including an improvement in liquidity coupled with
    the effect of decreased interest rates on such securities.

130

Table of Contents   

A rollforward of the fair value measurements for fixed maturity
    securities and equity securities
     available-for-sale 
    measured at estimated fair value on a recurring basis using
    significant unobservable (Level 3) inputs is as
    follows:

(1)  

Includes securities acquired from ALICO of $5,435 million
    for fixed maturity securities and $68 million for equity
    securities. 

An analysis of transfers into
     and/or  out
    of Level 3 for the year ended December 31, 2010 is as
    follows:

Total gains and losses in earnings and other comprehensive
    income (loss) are calculated assuming transfers in or out of
    Level 3 occurred at the beginning of the period. Items
    transferred in and out for the same period are excluded from the
    rollforward.

Total gains and losses for fixed maturity securities included in
    earnings of ($2) million and other comprehensive income
    (loss) of $19 million respectively, were incurred for
    transfers subsequent to their transfer to Level 3, for the
    year ended December 31, 2010.

Net transfers into
     and/or  out
    of Level 3 for fixed maturity securities were
    $53 million for the year ended December 31, 2010, and
    were comprised of transfers in of $1,736 million and
    transfers out of ($1,683) million, respectively.

Overall, transfers into
     and/or  out
    of Level 3 are attributable to a change in the
    observability of inputs. Assets and liabilities are transferred
    into Level 3 when a significant input cannot be
    corroborated with market observable data. This occurs when
    market activity decreases significantly and underlying inputs
    cannot be observed, current prices are not available, and when
    there are significant variances in quoted prices, thereby
    affecting transparency. Assets and liabilities are transferred
    out of Level 3 when circumstances change such that a
    significant input can be corroborated with market observable
    data. This may be due to a significant increase in market
    activity, a specific event, or one or more significant input(s)
    becoming observable. Transfers into
     and/or  out
    of any level are assumed to occur at the beginning of the
    period. Significant transfers in
     and/or  out
    of Level 3 assets and liabilities for the year ended
    December 31, 2010 are summarized below.

During the year ended December 31, 2010, fixed maturity
    securities transfers into Level 3 of $1,736 million
    resulted primarily from current market conditions characterized
    by a lack of trading activity, decreased liquidity and credit
    ratings downgrades (e.g., from investment grade to below
    investment grade). These current market conditions have resulted
    in decreased transparency of valuations and an increased use of
    broker quotations and unobservable inputs to determine estimated
    fair value principally for certain private placements included
    in U.S. and foreign corporate securities and certain CMBS.

During the year ended December 31, 2010, fixed maturity
    securities transfers out of Level 3 of ($1,683) million
    resulted primarily from increased transparency of both new
    issuances that subsequent to issuance and establishment of
    trading activity, became priced by independent pricing services
    and existing issuances that, over time, the Company was able to
    corroborate pricing received from independent pricing services
    with observable inputs, or there were increases in market
    activity and upgraded credit ratings primarily for certain
    U.S. and foreign corporate securities, RMBS and ABS.

131

Table of Contents   

See    Summary of Critical Accounting
    Estimates   Estimated Fair Value of Investments 
    for further information on the estimates and assumptions that
    affect the amounts reported above.

See    Fair Value   Assets and
    Liabilities Measured at Fair Value   Recurring Fair
    Value Measurements   Valuation Techniques and Inputs
    by Level Within the Three-Level Fair Value Hierarchy
    by Major Classes of Assets and Liabilities  in Note 5
    for further information about the valuation techniques and
    inputs by level by major classes of invested assets that affect
    the amounts reported above.

Fixed Maturity Securities Credit Quality  
    Ratings.   The Securities Valuation Office of the
    National Association of Insurance Commissioners
    ( NAIC ) evaluates the fixed maturity security
    investments of insurers for regulatory reporting and capital
    assessment purposes and assigns securities to one of six credit
    quality categories called  NAIC designations.  If no
    rating is available from the NAIC, then as permitted by the
    NAIC, an internally developed rating is used. The NAIC ratings
    are generally similar to the credit quality designations of the
    Nationally Recognized Statistical Ratings Organizations
    ( NRSROs ) for marketable fixed maturity securities,
    called  rating agency designations,  except for
    certain structured securities as described below. NAIC ratings 1
    and 2 include fixed maturity securities generally considered
    investment grade (i.e., rated  Baa3  or better by
    Moody s Investors Service ( Moody s ) or
    rated  BBB  or better by S P and Fitch Ratings
    ( Fitch )) by such rating organizations. NAIC ratings
    3 through 6 include fixed maturity securities generally
    considered below investment grade (i.e., rated  Ba1 
    or lower by Moody s or rated  BB+  or lower by
    S P and Fitch) by such rating organizations.

The NAIC adopted revised rating methodologies for non-agency
    RMBS, including RMBS backed by
     sub-prime 
    mortgage loans reported within ABS, that became effective
    December 31, 2009 and for CMBS and all other ABS that
    became effective December 31, 2010. The NAIC s
    objective with the revised rating methodologies for these
    structured securities was to increase the accuracy in assessing
    expected losses, and to use the improved assessment to determine
    a more appropriate capital requirement for such structured
    securities. The revised methodologies reduce regulatory reliance
    on rating agencies and allow for greater regulatory input into
    the assumptions used to estimate expected losses from such
    structured securities.

The three tables below present fixed maturity securities based
    on rating agency designations and equivalent designations of the
    NAIC, with the exception of certain structured securities held
    by the Company s insurance subsidiaries that file NAIC
    statutory financial statements. Non-agency RMBS, including RMBS
    backed by
     sub-prime 
    mortgage loans reported within ABS, CMBS and all other ABS held
    by the Company s insurance subsidiaries that file NAIC
    statutory financial statements are presented based on final
    ratings from the revised NAIC rating methodologies described
    above (which may not correspond to rating agency designations).
    All NAIC designation (e.g., NAIC 1) amounts and percentages
    presented herein are based on the revised NAIC methodologies
    described above. All rating agency designation (e.g., Aaa/AAA)
    amounts and percentages presented herein are based on rating
    agency designations without adjustment for the revised NAIC
    methodologies described above.

The following three tables present information about the
    Company s fixed maturity securities holdings by NAIC credit
    quality ratings. Comparisons between NAIC ratings and rating
    agency designations are published by the NAIC. Rating agency
    designations are based on availability of applicable ratings
    from rating agencies on the NAIC acceptable rating organizations
    list, including Moody s, S P, Fitch and Realpoint,
    LLC. If no rating is available from a rating agency, then an
    internally developed rating is used.

132

Table of Contents   

The following table presents the Company s total fixed
    maturity securities by NRSRO designation and the equivalent
    designations of the NAIC, except for certain structured
    securities, which are presented using final ratings from the
    revised NAIC rating methodologies as described above, as well as
    the percentage, based on estimated fair value, that each
    designation is comprised of at:

The following tables present the Company s total fixed
    maturity securities, based on estimated fair value, by sector
    classification and by NRSRO designation and the equivalent
    designations of the NAIC, except for certain structured
    securities, which are presented as described above, that each
    designation is comprised of at December 31, 2010 and 2009:

133

Table of Contents   

(1)  

Presented using the final rating from revised NAIC rating
    methodologies. 

Fixed Maturity and Equity Securities
     Available-for-Sale.    See
     Investments   Fixed Maturity and Equity
    Securities
     Available-for-Sale  
    in Note 3 of the Notes to the Consolidated Financial
    Statements for tables summarizing the cost or amortized cost,
    gross unrealized gains and losses, including noncredit loss
    component of OTTI loss, and estimated fair value of fixed
    maturity and equity securities on a sector basis, and selected
    information about certain fixed maturity securities held by the
    Company that were below investment grade or non-rated,
    non-income producing, credit enhanced by financial guarantor
    insurers   by sector, and the ratings of the financial
    guarantor insurers providing the credit enhancement at
    December 31, 2010 and 2009.

Concentrations of Credit Risk (Equity
    Securities).   The Company was not exposed to any
    significant concentrations of credit risk in its equity
    securities portfolio of any single issuer greater than 10% of
    the Company s equity, or 1% of total investments, at
    December 31, 2010 and 2009.

Concentrations of Credit Risk (Fixed Maturity
    Securities)   Summary.   See
     Investments  Fixed Maturity Securities
     Available-for-Sale 
    Concentrations  in Note 3 of the Notes to the
    Consolidated Financial Statements for a summary of the
    concentrations of credit risk related to fixed maturity
    securities holdings.

Corporate Fixed Maturity Securities.   The
    Company maintains a diversified portfolio of corporate fixed
    maturity securities across industries and issuers. This
    portfolio does not have exposure to any single issuer in excess
    of 1% of the total investments. See
     Investments   Fixed Maturity and Equity
    Securities
     Available-for-Sale   
    Concentrations of Credit Risk (Fixed Maturity
    Securities)   U.S. and Foreign Corporate
    Securities    in Note 3 of the Notes to the
    Consolidated Financial Statements for the tables that present
    the major industry types that comprise the corporate fixed
    maturity securities holdings, the largest exposure to a single
    issuer and the combined holdings in the ten issuers to which it
    had the largest exposure at December 31, 2010 and 2009.

134

Table of Contents   

Structured Securities.   The following table
    presents the types of structured securities and portion rated
    Aaa/AAA and portion rated NAIC 1 at:

RMBS.   See  Investments   Fixed
    Maturity and Equity Securities
     Available-for-Sale   
    Concentrations of Credit Risk (Fixed Maturity
    Securities)   RMBS  in Note 3 of the Notes
    to the Consolidated Financial Statements for the tables that
    present the Company s RMBS holdings by security type and
    risk profile at December 31, 2010 and 2009.

The majority of RMBS held by the Company was rated Aaa/AAA by
    Moody s, S P or Fitch; and the majority was rated NAIC
    1 by the NAIC at December 31, 2010 and 2009, as presented
    above. The majority of the agency RMBS held by the Company was
    guaranteed or otherwise supported by FNMA, FHLMC or GNMA.
    Non-agency RMBS includes prime and alternative residential
    mortgage loans ( Alt-A ) RMBS. Prime residential
    mortgage lending includes the origination of residential
    mortgage loans to the most creditworthy borrowers with high
    quality credit profiles. Alt-A is a classification of mortgage
    loans where the risk profile of the borrower falls between prime
    and
     sub-prime. 
     Sub-prime 
    mortgage lending is the origination of residential mortgage
    loans to borrowers with weak credit profiles. Included within
    Alt-A RMBS are resecuritization of real estate mortgage
    investment conduit ( Re-REMIC ) securities. Re-REMIC
    Alt-A RMBS involve the pooling of previous issues of Alt-A RMBS
    and restructuring the combined pools to create new senior and
    subordinated securities. The credit enhancement on the senior
    tranches is improved through the resecuritization. The
    Company s holdings are in senior tranches with significant
    credit enhancement.

The Company s Alt-A securities portfolio has superior
    structure to the overall Alt-A market. At December 31, 2010
    and 2009, the Company s Alt-A securities portfolio has no
    exposure to option adjustable rate mortgages ( ARMs )
    and a minimal exposure to hybrid ARMs. The Company s Alt-A
    securities portfolio is comprised primarily of fixed rate
    mortgages which have performed better than both option ARMs and
    hybrid ARMs in the overall Alt-A market. Additionally, 85% and
    90% at December 31, 2010 and 2009, respectively, of the
    Company s Alt-A securities portfolio has super senior
    credit enhancement, which typically provides double the credit
    enhancement of a standard Aaa/AAA rated fixed maturity security.
    See  Investments   Fixed Maturity and Equity
    Securities
     Available-for-Sale   
    Concentrations of Credit Risk (Fixed Maturity
    Securities)   RMBS  in Note 3 of the Notes
    to Consolidated Financial Statements for a table that presents
    the estimated fair value of Alt-A securities held by the Company
    by vintage year, net unrealized loss, portion of holdings rated
    Aa/AA or better by Moody s, S P or Fitch, portion
    rated NAIC 1 by the NAIC, and portion of holdings that are
    backed by fixed rate collateral or hybrid ARM collateral at
    December 31, 2010 and 2009. The Company s holdings of
    Re-REMIC Alt-A RMBS reported within Alt-A RMBS were all rated
    NAIC 1 and were $703 million and $782 million at
    estimated fair value at December 31, 2010 and 2009,
    respectively.

135

Table of Contents   

RMBS in which the present value of projected future cash flows
    expected to be collected is less than amortized cost are
    reviewed for impairment in accordance with our impairment
    policy. Based upon the analysis of the Company s exposure
    to RMBS, including Alt-A RMBS, the Company expects to receive
    payments in accordance with the contractual terms of the
    securities that are considered temporarily impaired.

CMBS.   There have been disruptions in the CMBS
    market due to market perceptions that default rates will
    increase in part as a result of weakness in commercial real
    estate market fundamentals and in part to relaxed underwriting
    standards by some originators of commercial mortgage loans
    within the more recent vintage years (i.e., 2006 and later).
    These factors caused a pull-back in market liquidity, increased
    credit spreads and repricing of risk, which has led to higher
    levels of unrealized losses as compared to historical levels
    through the first quarter of 2010. However, in the second
    quarter of 2010, market conditions continued to improve and
    interest rates continue to decrease, causing our portfolio to be
    in a net unrealized gain position of 2% of amortized cost at
    December 31, 2010.

CMBS in which the present value of projected future cash flows
    expected to be collected is less than amortized cost are
    reviewed for impairment in accordance with our impairment
    policy. Based upon the analysis of the Company s exposure
    to CMBS, the Company expects to receive payments in accordance
    with the contractual terms of the securities that are considered
    temporarily impaired.

The Company s holdings in CMBS were $20.7 billion and
    $15.6 billion, at estimated fair value at December 31,
    2010 and 2009, respectively. See  Investments  
    Fixed Maturity and Equity Securities
     Available-for-Sale   
    Concentrations of Credit Risk (Fixed Maturity
    Securities)   CMBS  in Note 3 of the Notes
    to the Consolidated Financial Statements for tables that present
    the amortized cost and estimated fair value, rating agency
    designation by Moody s, S P, Fitch or Realpoint, LLC
    and holdings by vintage year of such securities held by the
    Company at December 31, 2010 and 2009. The Company had no
    exposure to CMBS index securities at December 31, 2010 or
    2009. The Company s holdings of commercial real estate
    collateralized debt obligations securities were
    $138 million and $111 million at estimated fair value
    at December 31, 2010 and 2009, respectively. The weighted
    average credit enhancement of the Company s CMBS holdings
    was 26% and 28% at December 31, 2010 and 2009,
    respectively. This credit enhancement percentage represents the
    current weighted average estimated percentage of outstanding
    capital structure subordinated to the Company s investment
    holding that is available to absorb losses before the security
    incurs the first dollar of loss of principal. The credit
    protection does not include any equity interest or property
    value in excess of outstanding debt.

ABS.   The Company s ABS are diversified
    both by collateral type and by issuer. See
     Investments   Fixed Maturity and Equity
    Securities
     Available-for-Sale   
    Concentrations of Credit Risk (Fixed Maturity
    Securities)   ABS  in Note 3 of the Notes to
    the Consolidated Financial Statements for a table that presents
    the Company s ABS by collateral type, portion rated
    Aaa/AAA, portion rated NAIC 1, and portion credit enhanced held
    by the Company at December 31, 2010 and 2009.

The slowing U.S. housing market, greater use of affordable
    mortgage products and relaxed underwriting standards for some
    originators of
     sub-prime 
    mortgage loans have recently led to higher delinquency and loss
    rates, especially within the 2006 and 2007 vintage years. These
    factors have caused a pull-back in market liquidity and
    repricing of risk, which has led to higher levels of unrealized
    losses on securities backed by
     sub-prime 
    mortgage loans as compared to historical levels. However, in
    2010, market conditions improved, credit spreads narrowed on
    mortgage-backed and asset-backed securities and net unrealized
    losses on ABS backed by
     sub-prime 
    mortgage loans decreased from 36% to 22% of amortized cost from
    December 31, 2009 to December 31, 2010.

ABS in which the present value of projected future cash flows
    expected to be collected is less than amortized cost are
    reviewed for impairment in accordance with our impairment
    policy. Based upon the analysis of the Company s ABS,
    including
     sub-prime 
    mortgage loans through its exposure to ABS, the Company expects
    to receive payments in accordance with the contractual terms of
    the securities that are considered temporarily impaired.

See  Investments  Fixed Maturity and Equity
    Securities
     Available-for-Sale   
    Concentrations of Credit Risk (Fixed Maturity
    Securities)   ABS  in Note 3 of the Notes to
    the Consolidated Financial Statements for tables that present
    the Company s holdings of ABS supported by
     sub-prime 
    mortgage loans by rating agency designation and by vintage year
    and by NAIC rating at December 31, 2010 and 2009.

136

Table of Contents   

The Company had ABS supported by
     sub-prime 
    mortgage loans with estimated fair values of $1,119 million
    and $1,044 million and unrealized losses of
    $317 million and $593 million at December 31,
    2010 and 2009, respectively. Approximately 54% of this portfolio
    was rated Aa or better, of which 88% was in vintage year 2005
    and prior at December 31, 2010. Approximately 61% of this
    portfolio was rated Aa or better, of which 91% was in vintage
    year 2005 and prior at December 31, 2009. These older
    vintages from 2005 and prior benefit from better underwriting,
    improved enhancement levels and higher residential property
    price appreciation. All of the $1,119 million and
    $1,044 million of ABS supported by
     sub-prime 
    mortgage loans were classified as Level 3 fixed maturity
    securities in the fair value hierarchy at December 31, 2010
    and 2009, respectively.

ABS also include collateralized debt obligations backed by
     sub-prime 
    mortgage loans at an aggregate cost of $18 million with an
    estimated fair value of $17 million at December 31,
    2010 and an aggregate cost of $22 million with an estimated
    fair value of $8 million at December 31, 2009.

Evaluating
     Available-for-Sale 
    Securities for
     Other-Than-Temporary 
    Impairment   

See  Investments   Evaluating
     Available-for-Sale 
    Securities for
     Other-Than-Temporary 
    Impairment  in Note 3 of the Notes to the Consolidated
    Financial Statements for a discussion of the regular evaluation
    of
     available-for-sale 
    securities holdings in accordance with our impairment policy,
    whereby we evaluate whether such investments are
     other-than-temporarily 
    impaired, new OTTI guidance adopted in 2009 and factors
    considered by security classification in the regular OTTI
    evaluation.

See    Summary of Critical Accounting
    Estimates. 

Net
    Unrealized Investment Gains (Losses)   

See  Investments   Net Unrealized Investment
    Gains (Losses)  in Note 3 of the Notes to the
    Consolidated Financial Statements for the components of net
    unrealized investment gains (losses), included in accumulated
    other comprehensive income (loss) and the changes in net
    unrealized investment gains (losses) at December 31, 2010
    and 2009 and for the years ended December 31, 2010, 2009
    and 2008, respectively.

Fixed maturity securities with noncredit OTTI losses in
    accumulated other comprehensive income (loss) of
    ($601) million at December 31, 2010, includes
    ($859) million recognized prior to January 1, 2010,
    ($212) million (($202) million, net of DAC) of
    noncredit OTTI losses recognized in the year ended
    December 31, 2010, $16 million transferred to retained
    earnings in connection with the adoption of guidance related to
    the consolidation of VIEs (see Note 1 of the Notes to the
    Consolidated Financial Statements) for the year ended
    December 31, 2010, $137 million related to securities
    sold for the year ended December 31, 2010, for which a
    noncredit OTTI loss was previously recognized in accumulated
    other comprehensive income (loss) and $317 million of
    subsequent increases in estimated fair value during the year
    ended December 31, 2010, on such securities for which a
    noncredit OTTI loss was previously recognized in accumulated
    other comprehensive income (loss).

Fixed maturity securities with noncredit OTTI losses in
    accumulated other comprehensive income (loss) of
    ($859) million at December 31, 2009, includes
    ($126) million related to the transition adjustment
    recorded in 2009 upon the adoption of guidance on the
    recognition and presentation of OTTI, ($939) million
    (($857) million, net of DAC) of noncredit OTTI losses
    recognized in the year ended December 31, 2009 (as more
    fully described in Note 1 of the Notes to the Consolidated
    Financial Statements), $20 million related to securities
    sold during the year ended December 31, 2009 for which a
    noncredit loss was previously recognized in accumulated other
    comprehensive income (loss) and $186 million of subsequent
    increases in estimated fair value during the year ended
    December 31, 2009 on such securities for which a noncredit
    OTTI loss was previously recognized in accumulated other
    comprehensive income (loss).

Aging
    of Gross Unrealized Loss and OTTI Loss for Fixed Maturity and
    Equity Securities
     Available-for-Sale    

See  Investments  Aging of Gross Unrealized Loss
    and OTTI Loss for Fixed Maturity and Equity Securities
     Available-for-Sale  
    in Note 3 of the Notes to the Consolidated Financial
    Statements for the tables that present the

137

Table of Contents   

cost or amortized cost, gross unrealized loss, including the
    portion of OTTI loss on fixed maturity securities recognized in
    accumulated other comprehensive income (loss) at
    December 31, 2010, gross unrealized loss as a percentage of
    cost or amortized cost and number of securities for fixed
    maturity and equity securities where the estimated fair value
    had declined and remained below cost or amortized cost by less
    than 20%, or 20% or more at December 31, 2010 and 2009.

Concentration
    of Gross Unrealized Loss and OTTI Loss for Fixed Maturity and
    Equity Securities
     Available-for-Sale    

See  Investments   Concentration of Gross
    Unrealized Loss and OTTI Loss for Fixed Maturity and Equity
    Securities
     Available-for-Sale  
    in Note 3 of the Notes to the Consolidated Financial
    Statements for the tables that present the concentration by
    sector and industry of the Company s gross unrealized
    losses related to its fixed maturity and equity securities,
    including the portion of OTTI loss on fixed maturity securities
    recognized in accumulated other comprehensive loss of
    $6.9 billion and $10.8 billion at December 31,
    2010 and 2009, respectively.

Evaluating
    Temporarily Impaired
     Available-for-Sale 
    Securities   

See  Investments  Fixed Maturity and Equity
    Securities
     Available-for-Sale   
    Evaluating Temporarily Impaired
     Available-for-Sale 
    Securities  in Note 3 of the Notes to the Consolidated
    Financial Statements for a table that presents the
    Company s fixed maturity and equity securities each with a
    gross unrealized loss of greater than $10 million, the
    number of securities, total gross unrealized loss and percentage
    of total gross unrealized loss at December 31, 2010 and
    2009.

Fixed maturity and equity securities, each with a gross
    unrealized loss greater than $10 million, decreased
    $2.5 billion during the year ended December 31, 2010.
    The cause of the decline in, or improvement in, gross unrealized
    losses for the year ended December 31, 2010 was primarily
    attributable to a decrease in interest rates and narrowing of
    credit spreads. These securities were included in the
    Company s OTTI review process. Based upon the
    Company s current evaluation of these securities in
    accordance with its impairment policy and the Company s
    current intentions and assessments (as applicable to the type of
    security) about holding, selling, and any requirements to sell
    these securities, the Company has concluded that these
    securities are not
     other-than-temporarily 
    impaired.

In the Company s impairment review process, the duration
    and severity of an unrealized loss position for equity
    securities is given greater weight and consideration than for
    fixed maturity securities. An extended and severe unrealized
    loss position on a fixed maturity security may not have any
    impact on the ability of the issuer to service all scheduled
    interest and principal payments and the Company s
    evaluation of recoverability of all contractual cash flows or
    the ability to recover an amount at least equal to its amortized
    cost based on the present value of the expected future cash
    flows to be collected. In contrast, for an equity security,
    greater weight and consideration is given by the Company to a
    decline in market value and the likelihood such market value
    decline will recover.

See  Investments   Fixed Maturity and Equity
    Securities
     Available-for-Sale   
    Evaluating Temporarily Impaired
     Available-for-Sale 
    Securities  in Note 3 of the Notes to the Consolidated
    Financial Statements for a table that presents certain
    information about the Company s equity securities
     available-for-sale 
    with a gross unrealized loss of 20% or more at December 31,
    2010.

In connection with the equity securities impairment review
    process at December 31, 2010, the Company evaluated its
    holdings in non-redeemable preferred stock, particularly those
    of financial services companies. The Company considered several
    factors including whether there has been any deterioration in
    credit of the issuer and the likelihood of recovery in value of
    non-redeemable preferred stock with a severe or an extended
    unrealized loss. The Company also considered whether any
    non-redeemable preferred stock with an unrealized loss held by
    the Company, regardless of credit rating, have deferred any
    dividend payments. No such dividend payments had been deferred.

138

Table of Contents   

With respect to common stock holdings, the Company considered
    the duration and severity of the unrealized losses for
    securities in an unrealized loss position of 20% or more and the
    duration of unrealized losses for securities in an unrealized
    loss position of less than 20% in an extended unrealized loss
    position (i.e., for 12 months or greater).

Future OTTI will depend primarily on economic fundamentals,
    issuer performance (including changes in the present value of
    future cash flows expected to be collected), changes in credit
    rating, changes in collateral valuation, changes in interest
    rates and changes in credit spreads. If economic fundamentals
    and any of the above factors deteriorate, additional OTTI may be
    incurred in upcoming quarters.

Net
    Investment Gains (Losses) Including OTTI Losses Recognized in
    Earnings   

Effective April 1, 2009, the Company adopted guidance on
    the recognition and presentation of OTTI that amends the
    methodology to determine for fixed maturity securities whether
    an OTTI exists, and for certain fixed maturity securities,
    changes how OTTI losses that are charged to earnings are
    measured. There was no change in the methodology for
    identification and measurement of OTTI losses charged to
    earnings for impaired equity securities.

See  Investments   Fixed Maturity and Equity
    Securities
     Available-for-Sale   
    Net Investment Gains (Losses)  in Note 3 of the Notes
    to the Consolidated Financial Statements for a table that
    presents proceeds from sales or disposals of fixed maturity and
    equity securities and the components of fixed maturity and
    equity securities net investment gains (losses) for the years
    ended December 31, 2010, 2009 and 2008, respectively.

Overview of Fixed Maturity and Equity Security OTTI Losses
    Recognized in Earnings.   Impairments of fixed
    maturity and equity securities were $484 million,
    $1.9 billion and $1.7 billion for the years ended
    December 31, 2010, 2009 and 2008, respectively. Impairments
    of fixed maturity securities were $470 million,
    $1.5 billion and $1.3 billion for the years ended
    December 31, 2010, 2009 and 2008, respectively. Impairments
    of equity securities were $14 million, $400 million
    and $430 million for the years ended December 31,
    2010, 2009 and 2008, respectively.

The Company s credit-related impairments of fixed maturity
    securities were $423 million, $1.1 billion and
    $1.1 billion for the years ended December 31, 2010,
    2009 and 2008, respectively.

The Company s three largest impairments totaled
    $105 million, $508 million and $528 million for
    the years ended December 31, 2010, 2009 and 2008,
    respectively.

The Company records OTTI losses charged to earnings within net
    investment gains (losses) and adjusts the cost basis of the
    fixed maturity and equity securities accordingly. The Company
    does not change the revised cost basis for subsequent recoveries
    in value.

The Company sold or disposed of fixed maturity and equity
    securities at a loss that had an estimated fair value of
    $18.2 billion, $10.2 billion and $29.9 billion
    for the years ended December 31, 2010, 2009 and 2008,
    respectively. Gross losses excluding impairments for fixed
    maturity and equity securities were $628 million,
    $1.2 billion and $1.8 billion for the years ended
    December 31, 2010, 2009 and 2008, respectively.

Explanations of changes in fixed maturity and equity securities
    impairments are as follows:

Year Ended December 31, 2010 compared to the Year Ended
    December 31, 2009    Overall OTTI losses
    recognized in earnings on fixed maturity and equity securities
    were $484 million for the current year as compared to
    $1.9 billion in the prior year. Improving or stabilizing
    market conditions across all sectors and industries,
    particularly the financial services industry, as compared to the
    prior year when there was significant stress in the global
    financial markets, resulted in a higher level of impairments in
    fixed maturity and equity securities in the prior year. The most
    significant decrease in the current year, as compared to the
    prior year, was in the Company s financial services
    industry holdings which comprised $799 million in fixed
    maturity and equity security impairments in the prior year, as
    compared to $129 million in impairments in the current
    year. Of the $799 million in financial services industry
    impairments in the year, $340 million were in equity
    securities, of which $310 million were in financial
    services industry perpetual hybrid securities which were
    impaired as a result of deterioration in the credit rating of
    the issuer to below investment grade and due to a severe and
    extended unrealized loss position on these securities.
    Impairments

139

Table of Contents   

in the current year were concentrated in the RMBS, ABS and CMBS
    sectors reflecting current economic conditions including higher
    unemployment levels and continued weakness within the real
    estate markets. Of the fixed maturity and equity securities
    impairments of $484 million and $1,900 million in the
    years ended December 31, 2010 and 2009, respectively,
    $287 million and $449 million, or 59% and 24%
    respectively, were in the Company s RMBS, ABS and CMBS
    holdings.

Year Ended December 31, 2009 compared to the Year Ended
    December 31, 2008    Overall OTTI losses
    recognized in earnings on fixed maturity and equity securities
    were $1.9 billion for the year ended December 31, 2009
    as compared to $1.7 billion in the prior year. The stress
    in the global financial markets that caused a significant
    increase in impairments in 2008 as compared to 2007, continued
    into 2009. Significant impairments were incurred in several
    industry sectors in 2009, including the financial services
    industry, but to a lesser degree in the financial services
    industry sector than in 2008. In 2008 certain financial
    institutions entered bankruptcy, entered FDIC receivership or
    received significant government capital infusions causing 2008
    financial services industry impairments to be higher than in
    2009. Of the fixed maturity and equity securities impairments of
    $1,900 million in 2009, $799 million were concentrated
    in the Company s financial services industry holdings and
    were comprised of $459 million in impairments on fixed
    maturity securities and $340 million in impairments on
    equity securities, and the $799 million included
    $623 million of perpetual hybrid securities, which were
    comprised of $313 million on securities classified as fixed
    maturity securities and $310 million on securities
    classified as non-redeemable preferred stock. Overall
    impairments in 2009 were higher due to increased fixed maturity
    security impairments across several industry sectors, which more
    than offset a reduction in impairments in the financial services
    industry sector. Impairments across these several industry
    sectors increased in 2009 due to increased financial
    restructurings, bankruptcy filings, ratings downgrades,
    collateral deterioration or difficult operating environments of
    the issuers as a result of the challenging economic environment.
    Impairments on perpetual hybrid securities in 2009 were a result
    of deterioration in the credit rating of the issuer to below
    investment grade and due to a severe and extended unrealized
    loss position.

See  Investments   Fixed Maturity and Equity
    Securities
     Available-for-Sale   
    Net Investment Gains (Losses)  in Note 3 of the Notes
    to the Consolidated Financial Statements for tables that present
    fixed maturity security OTTI losses recognized in earnings by
    sector and by industry within the U.S. and foreign
    corporate securities sector for the years ended
    December 31, 2010, 2009 and 2008, respectively; and equity
    security OTTI losses recognized in earnings by sector and
    industry for the years ended December 31, 2010, 2009 and
    2008, respectively.

Future Impairments.   Future OTTI will depend
    primarily on economic fundamentals, issuer performance, changes
    in credit ratings, changes in collateral valuation, changes in
    interest rates and changes in credit spreads. If economic
    fundamentals and other of the above factors deteriorate,
    additional OTTI may be incurred in upcoming periods. See also
        Investments   Fixed Maturity and
    Equity Securities
     Available-for-Sale   
    Net Unrealized Investment Gains (Losses). 

Credit
    Loss Rollforward   Rollforward of the Cumulative
    Credit Loss Component of OTTI Loss Recognized in Earnings on
    Fixed Maturity Securities Still Held for Which a Portion of the
    OTTI Loss was Recognized in Other Comprehensive Income
    (Loss)   

See  Investments   Credit Loss
    Rollforward   Rollforward of the Cumulative Credit
    Loss Component of OTTI Loss Recognized in Earnings on Fixed
    Maturity Securities Still Held for Which a Portion of the OTTI
    Loss was Recognized in Other Comprehensive Income (Loss) 
    in Note 3 of the Notes to the Consolidated Financial
    Statements for the table that presents a rollforward of the
    cumulative credit loss component of OTTI loss recognized in
    earnings on fixed maturity securities still held by the Company
    at December 31, 2010 and 2009 for which a portion of the
    OTTI loss was recognized in other comprehensive income (loss)
    for the years ended December 31, 2010 and 2009.

140

Table of Contents   

Securities
    Lending   

The Company participates in securities lending programs whereby
    blocks of securities, which are included in fixed maturity
    securities and short-term investments, are loaned to third
    parties, primarily brokerage firms and commercial banks. The
    Company generally obtains collateral, generally cash, in an
    amount equal to 102% of the estimated fair value of the loaned
    securities, which is obtained at the inception of a loan and
    maintained at a level greater than or equal to 100% for the
    duration of the loan. Securities loaned under such transactions
    may be sold or repledged by the transferee. The Company is
    liable to return to its counterparties the cash collateral under
    its control. These transactions are treated as financing
    arrangements and the associated liability recorded at the amount
    of the cash received.

See  Investments   Securities Lending  in
    Note 3 of the Notes to the Consolidated Financial
    Statements for information regarding the Company s
    securities lending program.

The estimated fair value of the securities on loan related to
    the cash collateral on open at December 31, 2010 was
    $2,699 million, of which $2,317 million were
    U.S. Treasury, agency and government guaranteed securities
    which, if put to the Company, can be immediately sold to satisfy
    the cash requirements. The remainder of the securities on loan
    were primarily U.S. Treasury, agency and government
    guaranteed securities, and very liquid RMBS. The
    U.S. Treasury securities on loan are primarily holdings of
     on-the-run 
    U.S. Treasury securities, the most liquid
    U.S. Treasury securities available. If these high quality
    securities that are on loan are put back to the Company, the
    proceeds from immediately selling these securities can be used
    to satisfy the related cash requirements. The reinvestment
    portfolio acquired with the cash collateral consisted
    principally of fixed maturity securities (including RMBS,
    U.S. corporate, U.S. Treasury, agency and government
    guaranteed, and ABS). If the on loan securities or the
    reinvestment portfolio become less liquid, the Company has the
    liquidity resources of most of its general account available to
    meet any potential cash demands when securities are put back to
    the Company.

Security collateral on deposit from counterparties in connection
    with the securities lending transactions may not be sold or
    repledged, unless the counterparty is in default, and is not
    reflected in the consolidated financial statements. Separately,
    the Company had $49 million and $46 million, at
    estimated fair value, of cash and security collateral on deposit
    from a counterparty to secure its interest in a pooled
    investment that is held by a third-party trustee, as custodian,
    at December 31, 2010 and 2009, respectively. This pooled
    investment is included within fixed maturity securities and had
    an estimated fair value of $49 million and $51 million
    at December 31, 2010 and 2009, respectively.

Invested
    Assets on Deposit, Held in Trust and Pledged as
    Collateral   

See  Investments   Invested Assets on Deposit,
    Held in Trust and Pledged as Collateral  in Note 3 of
    the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements for a table
    of the invested assets on deposit, invested assets held in trust
    and invested assets pledged as collateral at December 31,
    2010 and 2009.

See also     Investments   Securities
    Lending  for the amount of the Company s cash and
    invested assets received from and due back to counterparties
    pursuant to its securities lending program.

Trading
    and Other Securities   

The Company has a trading securities portfolio, principally
    invested in fixed maturity securities, to support investment
    strategies that involve the active and frequent purchase and
    sale of securities ( Actively Traded Securities ) and
    the execution of short sale agreements. Trading and other
    securities also include securities for which the FVO has been
    elected ( FVO Securities ). FVO Securities include
    certain fixed maturity and equity securities held for investment
    by the general account to support asset and liability matching
    strategies for certain insurance products. FVO Securities also
    include contractholder-directed investments supporting
    unit-linked variable annuity type liabilities which do not
    qualify for presentation as separate account summary total
    assets and liabilities. These investments are primarily mutual
    funds, and to a lesser extent, fixed maturity and equity
    securities, short-term investments and cash and cash
    equivalents. The investment returns on these investments inure
    to contractholders and are offset by a corresponding change in
    PABs through interest credited to PABs. Changes in

141

Table of Contents   

estimated fair value of such trading and other securities
    subsequent to purchase are included in net investment income.
    FVO Securities also include securities held by CSEs (former
    qualifying special purpose entities) with changes in estimated
    fair value subsequent to consolidation included in net
    investment gains (losses). Trading and other securities were
    $18.6 billion and $2.4 billion, or 3.9% and 0.7% of
    total cash and invested assets at estimated fair value, at
    December 31, 2010 and 2009, respectively. The significant
    increase in trading and other securities in 2010 was driven
    primarily by inclusion of ALICO s contractholder-directed
    unit-linked investments, and to a lesser extent, growth in this
    book of business that occurred during the ten month period ended
    October 31, 2010 prior to the Acquisition. See
     Investments   Trading and Other Securities 
    in Note 3 of the Notes to the Consolidated Financial
    Statements for tables which present information about the
    Actively Traded Securities and FVO Securities, related short
    sale agreement liabilities, investments pledged to secure short
    sale agreement liabilities, net investment income, changes in
    estimated fair value included in net investment income for
    trading and other securities and changes in estimated fair value
    included in net investment gains (losses) for FVO Securities
    held by CSEs at December 31, 2010 and 2009 and for the
    years ended December 31, 2010, 2009 and 2008.

Trading and other securities and trading (short sale agreement)
    liabilities, measured at estimated fair value on a recurring
    basis and their corresponding fair value hierarchy, are
    presented as follows:

(1)  

All FVO Securities held by CSEs are classified as Level 2. 

A rollforward of the fair value measurements for trading and
    other securities measured at estimated fair value on a recurring
    basis using significant unobservable (Level 3) inputs
    for the year ended December 31, 2010, is as follows:

(1)  

Includes securities acquired from ALICO of $582 million. 

See     Summary of Critical Accounting
    Estimates  for further information on the estimates and
    assumptions that affect the amounts reported above.

Mortgage
    Loans   

The Company s mortgage loans are principally collateralized
    by commercial real estate, agricultural real estate and
    residential properties. The carrying value of mortgage loans was
    $62.4 billion and $50.9 billion, or 13.1% and 15.1% of
    total cash and invested assets at December 31, 2010 and
    2009, respectively. See  Investments   Mortgage
    Loans  in Note 3 of the Notes to the Consolidated
    Financial Statements for a table that presents the
    Company s mortgage loans
     held-for-investment 
    of $59.1 billion and $48.2 billion by portfolio
    segment at December 31, 2010 and 2009, respectively, as
    well as the components of the mortgage loans
     held-for-sale 
    of $3.3 billion and $2.7 billion at December 31,
    2010 and 2009, respectively. The information presented on
    Mortgage

142

Table of Contents   

Loans herein excludes the effects of consolidating under GAAP
    certain VIEs that are treated as CSEs. Such amounts are
    presented in the aforementioned table. See
     Investments   Mortgage Loans  in
    Note 3 of the Notes to the Consolidated Financial
    Statements.

Commercial Mortgage Loans by Geographic Region and Property
    Type.   Commercial mortgage loans are the most
    significant component of the mortgage loan invested asset class
    as it represents 72% of total mortgage loans
     held-for-investment 
    (excluding the effects of consolidating under GAAP certain VIEs
    that are treated as CSEs) at both December 31, 2010 and
    2009. The Company diversifies its commercial mortgage loan
    portfolio by both geographic region and property type to reduce
    the risk of concentration. Additionally, the Company manages
    risk, when originating commercial and agricultural mortgage
    loans, by generally lending only up to 75% of the estimated fair
    value of the underlying real estate. The tables below present
    the diversification across geographic regions and property types
    for commercial mortgage loans at:

Mortgage Loan Credit Quality   Restructured,
    Potentially Delinquent, Delinquent or Under
    Foreclosure.   The Company monitors its mortgage
    loan investments on an ongoing basis, including reviewing loans
    that are restructured, potentially delinquent, and delinquent or
    under foreclosure. These loan classifications are consistent
    with those used in industry practice.

143

Table of Contents   

The Company defines restructured mortgage loans as loans in
    which the Company, for economic or legal reasons related to the
    debtor s financial difficulties, grants a concession to the
    debtor that it would not otherwise consider. The Company defines
    potentially delinquent loans as loans that, in management s
    opinion, have a high probability of becoming delinquent in the
    near term. The Company defines delinquent mortgage loans
    consistent with industry practice, when interest and principal
    payments are past due as follows: commercial mortgage
    loans   60 days past due; agricultural mortgage
    loans   90 days past due; and residential
    mortgage loans   60 days past due. The Company
    defines mortgage loans under foreclosure as loans in which
    foreclosure proceedings have formally commenced.

The following table presents the recorded investment and
    valuation allowance for all mortgage loans
     held-for-investment 
    distributed by the above stated loan classifications at:

(1)  

Of the $12.8 billion of agricultural mortgage loans
    outstanding at December 31, 2010, 53% were subject to rate
    resets prior to maturity. A substantial portion of these
    mortgage loans have been successfully renegotiated and remain
    outstanding to maturity. 

(2)  

Residential mortgage loans
     held-for-investment 
    consist primarily of first lien residential mortgage loans, and
    to a much lesser extent, second lien residential mortgage loans
    and home equity lines of credit. 

See  Investments   Mortgage Loans  in
    Note 3 of the Notes to the Consolidated Financial
    Statements for tables that present, by portfolio segment,
    mortgage loans by credit quality indicator and impaired loans,
    as well as information on past due and nonaccrual mortgage loans
    for the year ended December 31, 2010.

Mortgage Loan Credit Quality   Monitoring
    Process   Commercial and Agricultural Mortgage
    Loans.   The Company reviews all commercial
    mortgage loans on an ongoing basis. These reviews may include an
    analysis of the property financial statements and rent roll,
    lease rollover analysis, property inspections, market analysis,
    estimated valuations of the underlying collateral,
     loan-to-value 
    ratios, debt service coverage ratios, and tenant

144

Table of Contents   

creditworthiness. The monitoring process focuses on higher risk
    loans, which include those that are classified as restructured,
    potentially delinquent, delinquent or in foreclosure, as well as
    loans with higher
     loan-to-value 
    ratios and lower debt service coverage ratios. The monitoring
    process for agricultural mortgage loans is generally similar,
    with a focus on higher risk loans, such as loans with higher
     loan-to-value 
    ratios, including reviews on a geographic and property type
    basis.

Loan-to-value 
    ratios and debt service coverage ratios are common measures in
    the assessment of the quality of commercial mortgage loans.
     Loan-to-value 
    ratios are a common measure in the assessment of the quality of
    agricultural mortgage loans.
     Loan-to-value 
    ratios compare the amount of the loan to the estimated fair
    value of the underlying collateral. A
     loan-to-value 
    ratio greater than 100% indicates that the loan amount is
    greater than the collateral value. A
     loan-to-value 
    ratio of less than 100% indicates an excess of collateral value
    over the loan amount. The debt service coverage ratio compares a
    property s net operating income to amounts needed to
    service the principal and interest due under the loan. For
    commercial mortgage loans, the average
     loan-to-value 
    ratio was 66% and 68% at December 31, 2010 and 2009,
    respectively, and the average debt service coverage ratio was
    2.4x, as compared to 2.2x at December 31, 2009. For
    agricultural mortgage loans, the average
     loan-to-value 
    ratio was 49% at both December 31, 2010 and 2009,
    respectively. The values utilized in calculating these ratios
    are developed in connection with our review of the commercial
    and agricultural mortgage loans, and are updated routinely,
    including a periodic quality rating process and an evaluation of
    the estimated fair value of the underlying collateral.

Mortgage Loan Credit Quality   Monitoring
    Process   Residential Mortgage
    Loans.   The Company has a conservative residential
    mortgage loan portfolio and does not hold any option ARMs,
     sub-prime  or
    low teaser rate. Higher risk loans include those that are
    classified as restructured, potentially delinquent, delinquent
    or in foreclosure, as well as loans with higher
     loan-to-value 
    ratios and interest-only loans. The Company s investment in
    residential junior lien loans and residential mortgage loans
    with a
     loan-to-value 
    ratio of 80% or more was $95 million and $76 million
    at December 31, 2010 and 2009, respectively, and the
    majority of the higher
     loan-to-value 
    residential mortgage loans have mortgage insurance coverage
    which reduces the
     loan-to-value 
    ratio to less than 80%. Additionally, the Company s
    investment in traditional residential interest-only mortgage
    loans was $389 million and $323 million at
    December 31, 2010 and 2009, respectively.

Mortgage Loan Valuation Allowances.   The
    Company s valuation allowances are established both on a
    loan specific basis for those loans considered impaired where a
    property specific or market specific risk has been identified
    that could likely result in a future loss, as well as for pools
    of loans with similar risk characteristics where a property
    specific or market specific risk has not been identified, but
    for which the Company expects to incur a loss. Accordingly, a
    valuation allowance is provided to absorb these estimated
    probable credit losses. The Company records additions to and
    decreases in its valuation allowances and gains and losses from
    the sale of loans in net investment gains (losses).

The Company records valuation allowances for loans considered to
    be impaired when it is probable that, based upon current
    information and events, the Company will be unable to collect
    all amounts due under the contractual terms of the loan
    agreement. Based on the facts and circumstances of the
    individual loans being impaired, loan specific valuation
    allowances are established for the excess carrying value of the
    loan over either: (i) the present value of expected future
    cash flows discounted at the loan s original effective
    interest rate; (ii) the estimated fair value of the
    loan s underlying collateral if the loan is in the process
    of foreclosure or otherwise collateral dependent; or
    (iii) the loan s observable market price.

The Company also establishes valuation allowances for loan
    losses for pools of loans with similar risk characteristics,
    such as property types,
     loan-to-value 
    ratios and debt service coverage ratios when, based on past
    experience, it is probable that a credit event has occurred and
    the amount of loss can be reasonably estimated. These valuation
    allowances are based on loan risk characteristics, historical
    default rates and loss severities, real estate market
    fundamentals and outlook, as well as, other relevant factors.

The determination of the amount of, and additions or decreases
    to, valuation allowances is based upon the Company s
    periodic evaluation and assessment of known and inherent risks
    associated with its loan portfolios. Such evaluations and
    assessments are based upon several factors, including the
    Company s experience for loan losses, defaults and loss
    severity, and loss expectations for loans with similar risk
    characteristics. These evaluations and assessments are revised
    as conditions change and new information becomes available. We
    update our evaluations

145

Table of Contents   

regularly, which can cause the valuation allowances to increase
    or decrease over time as such evaluations are revised. Negative
    credit migration including an actual or expected increase in the
    level of problem loans will result in an increase in the
    valuation allowance. Positive credit migration including an
    actual or expected decrease in the level of problem loans will
    result in a decrease in the valuation allowance. Such changes in
    the valuation allowance are recorded in net investment gains
    (losses).

See  Investments   Mortgage Loans  in
    Note 3 of the Notes to the Consolidated Financial
    Statements for a table that presents the activity in the
    Company s valuation allowances, by portfolio segment, for
    the years ended December 31, 2010, 2009 and 2008,
    respectively; and for tables that present the Company s
    valuation allowances, by type of credit loss, by portfolio
    segment, at December 31, 2010 and 2009, respectively.

The Company held $197 million and $210 million in
    mortgage loans which are carried at estimated fair value based
    on the value of the underlying collateral or independent broker
    quotations, if lower, of which $164 million and
    $202 million relate to impaired mortgage loans
     held-for-investment 
    and $33 million and $8 million to certain mortgage
    loans
     held-for-sale, 
    at December 31, 2010 and 2009, respectively. These impaired
    mortgage loans were recorded at estimated fair value and
    represent a nonrecurring fair value measurement. The estimated
    fair value is categorized as Level 3. Included within net
    investment gains (losses) for such impaired mortgage loans were
    net impairments of $17 million and $93 million for the
    years ended December 31, 2010 and 2009, respectively.
    Subsequent improvements in estimated fair value on previously
    impaired loans recorded through a reduction in the previously
    established provision to the valuation allowance are reported as
    a (release) above.

Real
    Estate and Real Estate Joint Ventures   

The Company diversifies its real estate investments by both
    geographic region and property type to reduce risk of
    concentration. Of the Company s real estate investments,
    88% are located in the U.S. with the remaining 12% located
    outside the U.S., at December 31, 2010. The carrying value
    of the Company s real estate investments was
    $8.0 billion, or 1.7%, and $6.9 billion, or 2.0%, of
    total cash and invested assets at December 31, 2010 and
    2009, respectively. See  Investments   Real
    Estate  in Note 3 of the Notes to the Consolidated
    Financial Statements for tables that present the Company s
    real estate investments by investment strategy and by property
    type at December 31, 2010 and 2009.

Properties acquired through foreclosure were $165 million,
    $127 million and less than $1 million for the years
    ended December 31, 2010, 2009 and 2008, respectively, and
    includes commercial, agricultural and residential properties.
    After the Company acquires properties through foreclosure, it
    evaluates whether the property is appropriate for retention in
    its traditional real estate portfolio. Foreclosed real estate
    held at December 31, 2010 and 2009 includes those
    properties the Company has not selected for retention in its
    traditional real estate portfolio and which do not meet the
    criteria to be classified as
     held-for-sale. 

Impairments recognized on real estate
     held-for-investment 
    were $48 million, $160 million and $20 million
    for the years ended December 31, 2010, 2009 and 2008,
    respectively. Impairments recognized on real estate
     held-for-sale 
    were $1 million for the year ended December 31, 2010.
    There were no impairments recognized on real estate
     held-for-sale 
    for each of the years ended December 31, 2009 and 2008. The
    Company s carrying value of real estate
     held-for-sale 
    has been reduced by impairments recorded prior to 2009 of
    $1 million at both December 31, 2010 and 2009. The
    carrying value of non-income producing real estate was
    $137 million, $76 million and $28 million at
    December 31, 2010, 2009 and 2008, respectively.

The impaired cost method basis real estate joint ventures were
    recorded at estimated fair value and represent a non-recurring
    fair value measurement. The estimated fair value was categorized
    as Level 3. Impairments to estimated fair value for such
    cost method basis real estate joint ventures of
    $25 million, $82 million, and $0 for the years ended
    December 31, 2010, 2009 and 2008, respectively, were
    recognized within net investment gains (losses) and are included
    in the $48 million, $160 million and $20 million
    of impairments on real estate investments
     held-for-investment 
    for the years ended December 31, 2010, 2009 and 2008,
    respectively. The estimated fair value of the impaired cost
    method real estate joint ventures after these impairments was
    $8 million and $93 million at December 31, 2010
    and 2009, respectively.

146

Table of Contents   

Other
    Limited Partnership Interests   

The carrying value of other limited partnership interests (which
    primarily represent ownership interests in pooled investment
    funds that principally make private equity investments in
    companies in the U.S. and overseas) was $6.4 billion
    and $5.5 billion, or 1.3% and 1.6% of total cash and
    invested assets at December 31, 2010 and 2009,
    respectively. Included within other limited partnership
    interests were $1.0 billion, at both December 31, 2010
    and 2009, of investments in hedge funds.

Impairments on cost basis limited partnership interests are
    recognized at estimated fair value determined from information
    provided in the financial statements of the underlying other
    limited partnership interests in the period in which the
    impairment is recognized. Consistent with equity securities,
    greater weight and consideration is given in the other limited
    partnership interests impairment review process to the severity
    and duration of unrealized losses on such other limited
    partnership interests holdings. Impairments to estimated fair
    value for such other limited partnership interests of
    $12 million, $354 million and $105 million for
    the years ended December 31, 2010, 2009 and 2008,
    respectively, were recognized within net investment gains
    (losses). The estimated fair value of the impaired other limited
    partnership interests after these impairments was
    $23 million, $561 million and $137 million at
    December 31, 2010, 2009 and 2008, respectively. These
    impairments to estimated fair value represent non-recurring fair
    value measurements that have been classified as Level 3 due
    to the limited activity and price transparency inherent in the
    market for such investments.

Other
    Invested Assets   

See  Investments   Other Invested Assets  in
    Note 3 of the Notes to the Consolidated Financial
    Statements for a table that presents the Company s other
    invested assets by type at December 31, 2010 and 2009 and
    related information.

Short-term
    Investments   

The carrying value of short-term investments, which include
    investments with remaining maturities of one year or less, but
    greater than three months, at the time of purchase was
    $9.4 billion and $8.4 billion, or 2.0% and 2.5% of
    total cash and invested assets at December 31, 2010 and
    2009, respectively. The Company is exposed to concentrations of
    credit risk related to securities of the U.S. government
    and certain U.S. government agencies included within
    short-term investments, which were $4.0 billion and
    $7.5 billion at December 31, 2010 and 2009,
    respectively.

Cash
    Equivalents   

The carrying value of cash equivalents, which includes
    investments with an original or remaining maturity of three
    months or less, at the time of purchase was $9.6 billion
    and $8.4 billion at December 31, 2010 and 2009,
    respectively. The Company is exposed to concentrations of credit
    risk related to securities of the U.S. government and
    certain U.S. government agencies included within cash
    equivalents, which were $5.8 billion and $6.0 billion
    at December 31, 2010 and 2009, respectively.

Derivative
    Financial Instruments   

Derivatives.   The Company is exposed to various
    risks relating to its ongoing business operations, including
    interest rate risk, foreign currency risk, credit risk, and
    equity market risk. The Company uses a variety of strategies to
    manage these risks, including the use of derivative instruments.
    See Note 4 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial
    Statements for:

A comprehensive description of the nature of the Company s
    derivative instruments, including the strategies for which
    derivatives are used in managing various risks.

Information about the notional amount, estimated fair value, and
    primary underlying risk exposure of the Company s
    derivative financial instruments, excluding embedded derivatives
    held at December 31, 2010 and 2009.

147

Table of Contents   

Hedging.   See Note 4 of the Notes to
    Consolidated Financial Statements for information about:

The notional amount and estimated fair value of derivatives and
    non-derivative instruments designated as hedging instruments by
    type of hedge designation at December 31, 2010 and 2009.

The notional amount and estimated fair value of derivatives that
    are not designated or do not qualify as hedging instruments by
    derivative type at December 31, 2010 and 2009.

The statement of operations effects of derivatives in cash flow,
    fair value, or non-qualifying hedge relationships for the years
    ended December 31, 2010, 2009, and 2008.

See  Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market
    Risk   Management of Market Risk Exposures  
    Hedging Activities  for more information about the
    Company s use of derivatives by major hedge program.

Fair Value Hierarchy.   Derivatives measured at
    estimated fair value on a recurring basis and their
    corresponding fair value hierarchy, are presented as follows:

The valuation of Level 3 derivatives involves the use of
    significant unobservable inputs and generally requires a higher
    degree of management judgment or estimation than the valuations
    of Level 1 and Level 2 derivatives. Although
    Level 3 inputs are based on assumptions deemed appropriate
    given the circumstances and are assumed to be consistent with
    what other market participants would use when pricing such
    instruments, the use of different inputs or methodologies could
    have a material effect on the estimated fair value of
    Level 3 derivatives and could materially affect net income.

Derivatives categorized as Level 3 at December 31,
    2010 include: interest rate forwards with maturities which
    extend beyond the observable portion of the yield curve;
    interest rate lock commitments with certain unobservable inputs,
    including pull-through rates; equity variance swaps with
    unobservable volatility inputs or that are priced via
    independent broker quotations; foreign currency swaps which are
    cancelable and priced through independent broker quotations;
    interest rate swaps with maturities which extend beyond the
    observable portion of the yield curve; credit default swaps
    based upon baskets of credits having unobservable credit
    correlations, as well as credit default swaps with maturities
    which extend beyond the observable portion of the credit curves
    and credit default swaps priced through independent broker
    quotes; foreign currency forwards priced via independent broker
    quotations or with liquidity adjustments; implied volatility
    swaps with unobservable volatility inputs or that are priced via
    independent broker quotations; equity options with unobservable
    volatility inputs or that are priced via independent broker
    quotations; currency options based upon baskets of currencies
    having unobservable currency correlations; and credit forwards
    having unobservable repurchase rates.

At December 31, 2010 and 2009, 2.0% and 5.5%, respectively,
    of the net derivative estimated fair value was priced via
    independent broker quotations.

148

Table of Contents   

A rollforward of the fair value measurements for derivatives
    measured at estimated fair value on a recurring basis using
    significant unobservable (Level 3) inputs for the year
    ended December 31, 2010 is as follows:

See     Summary of Critical Accounting
    Estimates   Derivative Financial Instruments  for
    further information on the estimates and assumptions that affect
    the amounts reported above.

Credit Risk.  See Note 4 of the Notes to Consolidated
    Financial Statements for information about how the Company
    manages credit risk related to its freestanding derivatives,
    including the use of master netting agreements and collateral
    arrangements.

Credit Derivatives.  See Note 4 of the Notes to
    Consolidated Financial Statements for information about the
    estimated fair value and maximum amount at risk related to the
    Company s written credit default swaps.

Embedded Derivatives.   The embedded derivatives
    measured at estimated fair value on a recurring basis and their
    corresponding fair value hierarchy, are presented as follows:

A rollforward of the fair value measurements for net embedded
    derivatives measured at estimated fair value on a recurring
    basis using significant unobservable (Level 3) inputs
    is as follows:

The valuation of guaranteed minimum benefits includes an
    adjustment for nonperformance risk. Included in net derivative
    gains (losses) for the years ended December 31, 2010 and
    2009 were gains (losses) of ($96) million and
    ($1,932) million, respectively, in connection with this
    adjustment. These amounts are net of a loss of $955 million
    relating to a refinement for estimating nonperformance risk in
    fair value measurements implemented at June 30, 2010. See
        Summary of Critical Accounting
    Estimates. 

149

Table of Contents   

See     Summary of Critical Accounting
    Estimates   Embedded Derivatives  for further
    information on the estimates and assumptions that affect the
    amounts reported above.

Off-Balance
    Sheet Arrangements  

Commitments
    to Fund Partnership Investments   

The Company makes commitments to fund partnership investments in
    the normal course of business for the purpose of enhancing the
    Company s total return on its investment portfolio. The
    amounts of these unfunded commitments were $3.8 billion and
    $4.1 billion at December 31, 2010 and 2009,
    respectively. The Company anticipates that these amounts will be
    invested in partnerships over the next five years.

Mortgage
    Loan Commitments   

The Company has issued interest rate lock commitments on certain
    residential mortgage loan applications totaling
    $2.5 billion and $2.7 billion at December 31,
    2010 and 2009, respectively. The Company intends to sell the
    majority of these originated residential mortgage loans.
    Interest rate lock commitments to fund mortgage loans that will
    be
     held-for-sale 
    are considered derivatives pursuant to the guidance on
    derivatives and hedging, and their estimated fair value and
    notional amounts are included within interest rate forwards.

The Company also commits to lend funds under certain other
    mortgage loan commitments that will be
     held-for-investment 
    in the normal course of business for the purpose of enhancing
    the Company s total return on its investment portfolio. The
    amounts of these mortgage loan commitments were
    $3.8 billion and $2.2 billion at December 31,
    2010 and 2009, respectively.

Commitments
    to Fund Bank Credit Facilities, Bridge Loans and Private
    Corporate Bond Investments   

The Company commits to lend funds under bank credit facilities,
    bridge loans and private corporate bond investments in the
    normal course of business for the purpose of enhancing the
    Company s total return on its investment portfolio. The
    amounts of these unfunded commitments were $2.4 billion and
    $1.3 billion at December 31, 2010 and 2009,
    respectively.

There are no other material obligations or liabilities arising
    from the commitments to fund partnership investments, mortgage
    loans, bank credit facilities, and bridge loans and private
    corporate bond investment arrangements.

Lease
    Commitments   

The Company, as lessee, has entered into various lease and
    sublease agreements for office space, information technology and
    other equipment. The Company s commitments under such lease
    agreements are included within the contractual obligations
    table. See    Liquidity and Capital
    Resources   The Company   Liquidity and
    Capital Uses   Contractual Obligations. 

Credit
    Facilities, Committed Facilities and Letters of
    Credit   

The Company maintains committed and unsecured credit facilities
    and letters of credit with various financial institutions. See
       Liquidity and Capital Resources   The
    Company   Liquidity and Capital Sources  
    Credit and Committed Facilities,  for further descriptions
    of such arrangements.

Guarantees   

See  Guarantees  in Note 16 of the Notes to the
    Consolidated Financial Statements.

Collateral
    for Securities Lending   

The Company has no non-cash collateral for securities lending on
    deposit from customers, which cannot be sold or repledged, and
    which has not been recorded on its consolidated balance sheets.

150

Table of Contents   

Insolvency
    Assessments  

See Note 16 of the Notes to the Consolidated Financial
    Statements.

Policyholder
    Liabilities  

The Company establishes, and carries as liabilities, actuarially
    determined amounts that are calculated to meet policy
    obligations when a policy matures or is surrendered, an insured
    dies or becomes disabled or upon the occurrence of other covered
    events, or to provide for future annuity payments. Amounts for
    actuarial liabilities are computed and reported in the
    consolidated financial statements in conformity with GAAP. For
    more details on Policyholder Liabilities, see   
    Summary of Critical Accounting Estimates.  Also see
    Notes 1 and 8 of the Notes to the Consolidated Financial
    Statements for an analysis of certain policyholder liabilities
    at December 31, 2010 and 2009.

Due to the nature of the underlying risks and the high degree of
    uncertainty associated with the determination of actuarial
    liabilities, the Company cannot precisely determine the amounts
    that will ultimately be paid with respect to these actuarial
    liabilities, and the ultimate amounts may vary from the
    estimated amounts, particularly when payments may not occur
    until well into the future.

However, we believe our actuarial liabilities for future
    benefits are adequate to cover the ultimate benefits required to
    be paid to policyholders. We periodically review our estimates
    of actuarial liabilities for future benefits and compare them
    with our actual experience. We revise estimates, to the extent
    permitted or required under GAAP, if we determine that future
    expected experience differs from assumptions used in the
    development of actuarial liabilities.

The Company has experienced, and will likely in the future
    experience, catastrophe losses and possibly acts of terrorism,
    and turbulent financial markets that may have an adverse impact
    on our business, results of operations, and financial condition.
    Catastrophes can be caused by various events, including
    pandemics, hurricanes, windstorms, earthquakes, hail, tornadoes,
    explosions, severe winter weather (including snow, freezing
    water, ice storms and blizzards), fires and man-made events such
    as terrorist attacks. Due to their nature, we cannot predict the
    incidence, timing, severity or amount of losses from
    catastrophes and acts of terrorism, but we make broad use of
    catastrophic and non-catastrophic reinsurance to manage risk
    from these perils.

Future
    Policy Benefits   

The Company establishes liabilities for amounts payable under
    insurance policies. Generally, amounts are payable over an
    extended period of time and related liabilities are calculated
    as the present value of expected future benefits to be paid,
    reduced by the present value of expected future net premiums.
    Such liabilities are established based on methods and underlying
    assumptions in accordance with GAAP and applicable actuarial
    standards. Principal assumptions used in the establishment of
    liabilities for future policy benefits include mortality,
    morbidity, policy lapse, renewal, retirement, investment
    returns, inflation, expenses and other contingent events as
    appropriate to the respective product type. These assumptions
    are established at the time the policy is issued and are
    intended to estimate the experience for the period the policy
    benefits are payable. Utilizing these assumptions, liabilities
    are established on a block of business basis. If experience is
    less favorable than assumed and future losses are projected
    under loss recognition testing, then additional liabilities may
    be required, resulting in a charge to policyholder benefits and
    claims.

Insurance Products.   Future policy benefits are
    comprised mainly of liabilities for disabled lives under
    disability waiver of premium policy provisions, liabilities for
    survivor income benefit insurance, long-term care
    ( LTC ) policies, active life policies and premium
    stabilization and other contingency liabilities held under
    participating life insurance contracts. In order to manage risk,
    the Company has often reinsured a portion of the mortality risk
    on new individual life insurance policies. The reinsurance
    programs are routinely evaluated and this may result in
    increases or decreases to existing coverage. The Company entered
    into various derivative positions, primarily interest rate swaps
    and swaptions, to mitigate the risk that investment of premiums
    received and reinvestment of maturing assets over the life of
    the policy will be at rates below those assumed in the original
    pricing of these contracts.

151

Table of Contents   

Retirement Products.   Future policy benefits
    are comprised mainly of liabilities for life-contingent income
    annuities, supplemental contracts with and without life
    contingencies, liabilities for Guaranteed Minimum Death Benefits
    ( GMDBs ) included in certain annuity contracts, and a
    certain portion of guaranteed living benefits. See   
    Variable Annuity Guarantees. 

Corporate Benefit Funding.   Liabilities are
    primarily related to structured settlement annuities. There is
    no interest rate crediting flexibility on these liabilities. A
    sustained low interest rate environment could negatively impact
    earnings as a result. The Company has various derivative
    positions, primarily interest rate floors and interest rate
    swaps, to mitigate the risks associated with such a scenario.

Auto   Home.   Future policy benefits
    include liabilities for unpaid claims and claim expenses for
    property and casualty insurance and represent the amount
    estimated for claims that have been reported but not settled and
    claims incurred but not reported. Liabilities for unpaid claims
    are estimated based upon assumptions such as rates of claim
    frequencies, levels of severities, inflation, judicial trends,
    legislative changes or regulatory decisions. Assumptions are
    based upon the Company s historical experience and analyses
    of historical development patterns of the relationship of loss
    adjustment expenses to losses for each line of business, and
    consider the effects of current developments, anticipated trends
    and risk management programs, reduced for anticipated salvage
    and subrogation.

International.   Future policy benefits are held
    primarily for traditional life and accident and health contracts
    in Japan, Asia Pacific and immediate annuities in Latin America.
    They are also held for total return pass-thru provisions
    included in certain universal life and savings products mainly
    in Japan and Latin America, and traditional life, endowment and
    annuity contracts sold in various countries in Asia Pacific.
    They also include certain liabilities for variable annuity
    guarantees of minimum death benefits, and longevity guarantees
    sold in Japan and Asia Pacific. Finally, in Europe and the
    Middle East, they also include unearned premium liabilities
    established for credit insurance contracts covering death,
    disability and involuntary loss of employment, as well as
    traditional life, accident and health and endowment contracts.
    Factors impacting these liabilities include sustained periods of
    lower yields than rates established at issue, lower than
    expected asset reinvestment rates, higher than expected lapse
    rates, asset default and more rapid improvement of mortality
    levels than anticipated for life contingent immediate annuities.
    The Company mitigates its risks by implementing an
    asset/liability matching policy and through the development of
    periodic experience studies. See    Variable Annuity
    Guarantees. 

Estimates for the liabilities for unpaid claims and claim
    expenses are reset as actuarial indications change and these
    changes in the liability are reflected in the current results of
    operation as either favorable or unfavorable development of
    prior year losses.

Banking, Corporate   Other.   Future
    policy benefits primarily include liabilities for quota-share
    reinsurance agreements for certain LTC and workers 
    compensation business written by MetLife Insurance Company of
    Connecticut ( MICC ), prior to its acquisition by
    MetLife, Inc. These are run-off businesses that have been
    included within Banking, Corporate   Other since the
    acquisition of MICC.

Policyholder
    Account Balances   

Policyholder account balances are generally equal to the account
    value, which includes accrued interest credited, but exclude the
    impact of any applicable surrender charge that may be incurred
    upon surrender.

Insurance Products.   Policyholder account
    balances are held for death benefit disbursement retained asset
    accounts, universal life policies, the fixed account of variable
    life insurance policies, specialized life insurance products for
    benefit programs and general account universal life policies.
    Policyholder account balances are credited interest at a rate
    set by the Company, which are influenced by current market
    rates. The majority of the policyholder account balances have a
    guaranteed minimum credited rate between 0.5% and 6.0%. A
    sustained low interest rate environment could negatively impact
    earnings as a result of the minimum credited rate guarantees.
    The Company has various derivative positions, primarily interest
    rate floors, to partially mitigate the risks associated with
    such a scenario.

Retirement Products.   Policyholder account
    balances are held for fixed deferred annuities and the fixed
    account portion of variable annuities, for certain income
    annuities, and for certain portions of guaranteed benefits.

152

Table of Contents   

Policyholder account balances are credited interest at a rate
    set by the Company. Credited rates for deferred annuities are
    influenced by current market rates, and most of these contracts
    have a minimum guaranteed rate between 1.0% and 4.0%. See
       Variable Annuity Guarantees. 

Corporate Benefit Funding.   Policyholder
    account balances are comprised of funding agreements. Interest
    crediting rates vary by type of contract, and can be fixed or
    variable. Variable interest crediting rates are generally tied
    to an external index, most commonly
     1-month  or
     3-month 
    LIBOR. MetLife is exposed to interest rate risks, and foreign
    exchange risk when guaranteeing payment of interest and return
    of principal at the contractual maturity date. The Company may
    invest in floating rate assets, or enter into floating rate
    swaps, also tied to external indices, as well as caps to
    mitigate the impact of changes in market interest rates. The
    Company also mitigates its risks by implementing an
    asset/liability matching policy and seeks to hedge all foreign
    currency risk through the use of foreign currency hedges,
    including cross currency swaps.

International.   Policyholder account balances
    are held largely for fixed income retirement and savings plans
    in Japan and Latin America and to a lesser degree, amounts for
    unit-linked-type funds in certain countries across all regions
    that do not meet the GAAP definition of separate accounts. Also
    included are certain liabilities for retirement and savings
    products sold in certain countries in Japan and Asia Pacific
    that generally are sold with minimum credited rate guarantees.
    Liabilities for guarantees on certain variable annuities in
    Japan and Asia Pacific are established in accordance with
    derivatives and hedging guidance and are also included within
    policyholder account balances. These liabilities are generally
    impacted by sustained periods of low interest rates, where there
    are interest rate guarantees. The Company mitigates its risks by
    implementing an asset/liability matching policy and by hedging
    its variable annuity guarantees. Liabilities for
    unit-linked-type funds are impacted by changes in the fair value
    of the associated underlying investments, as the return on
    assets is generally passed directly to the policyholder. See
       Variable Annuity Guarantees. 

Variable
    Annuity Guarantees   

The Company issues certain variable annuity products with
    guaranteed minimum benefits that provide the policyholder a
    minimum return based on their initial deposit (i.e., the benefit
    base) less withdrawals. In some cases the benefit base may be
    increased by additional deposits, bonus amounts, accruals or
    market value resets. These guarantees are accounted for as
    insurance liabilities or as embedded derivatives depending on
    how and when the benefit is paid. Specifically, a guarantee is
    accounted for as an embedded derivative if a guarantee is paid
    without requiring (i) the occurrence of specific insurable
    event, or (ii) the policyholder to annuitize.
    Alternatively, a guarantee is accounted for as an insurance
    liability if the guarantee is paid only upon either (i) the
    occurrence of a specific insurable event, or (ii) upon
    annuitization. In certain cases, a guarantee may have elements
    of both an insurance liability and an embedded derivative and in
    such cases the guarantee is accounted for under a split of the
    two models.

The net amount at risk ( NAR ) for guarantees can
    change significantly during periods of sizable and sustained
    shifts in equity market performance, increased equity
    volatility, or changes in interest rates. The NAR disclosed in
    Note 8 of the Notes to the Consolidated Financial
    Statements represents management s estimate of the current
    value of the benefits under these guarantees if they were all
    exercised simultaneously at December 31, 2010 and 2009,
    respectively. However, there are features, such as deferral
    periods and benefits requiring annuitization or death, that
    limit the amount of benefits that will be payable in the near
    future.

Guarantees, including portions thereof, accounted for as
    embedded derivatives, are recorded at estimated fair value and
    included in policyholder account balances. Guarantees accounted
    for as embedded derivatives include GMAB, the non
    life-contingent portion of GMWB and the portion of certain GMIB
    that do not require annuitization. For more detail on the
    determination of estimated fair value, see Note 5 of the
    Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements.

153

Table of Contents   

The table below contains the carrying value for guarantees
    included in policyholder account balances at:

Included in net derivative gains (losses) for the years ended
    December 31, 2010 and 2009 were gains (losses) of
    ($269) million and $1,806 million, respectively, in
    embedded derivatives related to the change in estimated fair
    value of the guarantees. The carrying amount of guarantees
    accounted for at estimated fair value includes an adjustment for
    nonperformance risk. In connection with this adjustment, gains
    (losses) of ($96) million and ($1,932) million are
    included in the gains (losses) of ($269) million and
    $1,806 million in net derivative gains (losses) for the
    year ended December 31, 2010 and 2009, respectively.

The estimated fair value of guarantees accounted for as embedded
    derivatives can change significantly during periods of sizable
    and sustained shifts in equity market performance, equity
    volatility, interest rates or foreign exchange rates.
    Additionally, because the estimated fair value for guarantees
    accounted for at estimated fair value includes an adjustment for
    nonperformance risk, a decrease in the Company s credit
    spreads could cause the value of these liabilities to increase.
    Conversely, a widening of the Company s credit spreads
    could cause the value of these liabilities to decrease. The
    Company uses derivative instruments and reinsurance to mitigate
    the liability exposure, risk of loss and the volatility of net
    income associated with these liabilities. The derivative
    instruments used are primarily equity and treasury futures,
    equity options and variance swaps, and interest rate swaps. The
    change in valuation arising from the nonperformance risk is not
    hedged.

The table below presents the estimated fair value of the
    derivatives hedging guarantees accounted for as embedded
    derivatives:

Included in net derivative gains (losses) for the years ended
    December 31, 2010 and 2009 were gains (losses) of
    $113 million and ($3,654) million related to the
    change in estimated fair value of the above derivatives.

154

Table of Contents   

Additionally, included in net derivative gains (losses) for the
    years ended December 31, 2010 and 2009 were gains (losses)
    of ($35) million and $0, respectively, related to ceded
    reinsurance.

Guarantees, including portions thereof, have liabilities
    established that are included in future policy benefits.
    Guarantees accounted for in this manner include GMDBs, the
    life-contingent portion of certain GMWB, and the portion of GMIB
    that require annuitization. These liabilities are accrued over
    the life of the contract in proportion to actual and future
    expected policy assessments based on the level of guaranteed
    minimum benefits generated using multiple scenarios of separate
    account returns. The scenarios use best estimate assumptions
    consistent with those used to amortize deferred acquisition
    costs. When current estimates of future benefits exceed those
    previously projected or when current estimates of future
    assessments are lower than those previously projected,
    liabilities will increase, resulting in a current period charge
    to net income. The opposite result occurs when the current
    estimates of future benefits are lower than that previously
    projected or when current estimates of future assessments exceed
    those previously projected. At each reporting period, the
    Company updates the actual amount of business remaining
    in-force, which impacts expected future assessments and the
    projection of estimated future benefits resulting in a current
    period charge or increase to earnings.

The table below contains the carrying value for guarantees
    included in future policy benefits at:

Included in policyholder benefits and claims for the year ended
    December 31, 2010 is a charge of $302 million and for
    the year ended December 31, 2009 is a credit of
    $92 million, related to the respective change in
    liabilities for the above guarantees.

The carrying amount of guarantees accounted for as insurance
    liabilities can change significantly during periods of sizable
    and sustained shifts in equity market performance, increased
    equity volatility, or changes in interest rates. The Company
    uses reinsurance in combination with derivative instruments to
    mitigate the liability exposure, risk of loss and the volatility
    of net income associated with these liabilities. Derivative
    instruments used are primarily equity futures, treasury futures
    and interest rate swaps.

Included in policyholder benefits and claims associated with the
    hedging of the guarantees in future policy benefits for the year
    ended December 31, 2010 and 2009 were gains (losses) of
    $8 million and ($114) million, respectively, related
    to reinsurance treaties containing embedded derivatives carried
    at estimated fair value and gains (losses) of
    ($275) million and ($376) million, respectively,
    related to freestanding derivatives.

While the Company believes that the hedging strategies employed
    for guarantees included in both policyholder account balances
    and in future policy benefits, as well as other management
    actions, have mitigated the risks related to these benefits, the
    Company remains liable for the guaranteed benefits in the event
    that reinsurers or derivative counterparties are unable or
    unwilling to pay. Certain of the Company s reinsurance
    agreements and most derivative positions are collateralized and
    derivatives positions are subject to master netting agreements,
    both of which, significantly reduces the exposure to
    counterparty risk. In addition, the Company is subject to the
    risk that hedging and other management procedures prove
    ineffective or that unanticipated policyholder behavior or
    mortality, combined with adverse market events, produces
    economic losses beyond the scope of the risk management
    techniques employed. Lastly, because the valuation of the
    guarantees accounted for as embedded derivatives includes an
    adjustment for nonperformance risk that is not hedged, changes
    in the nonperformance risk may result in significant volatility
    in net income.

155

Table of Contents   

Other
    Policy-related Balances   

Other policy-related balances include policy and contract
    claims, unearned revenue liabilities, premiums received in
    advance, policyholder dividends due and unpaid, and policyholder
    dividends left on deposit.

The liability for policy and contract claims generally relates
    to incurred but not reported death, disability, LTC and dental
    claims, as well as claims that have been reported but not yet
    settled. The liability for these claims is based on the
    Company s estimated ultimate cost of settling all claims.
    The Company derives estimates for the development of incurred
    but not reported claims principally from actuarial analyses of
    historical patterns of claims and claims development for each
    line of business. The methods used to determine these estimates
    are continually reviewed. Adjustments resulting from this
    continuous review process and differences between estimates and
    payments for claims are recognized in policyholder benefits and
    claims expense in the period in which the estimates are changed
    or payments are made.

The unearned revenue liability relates to universal life-type
    and investment-type products and represents policy charges for
    services to be provided in future periods. The charges are
    deferred as unearned revenue and amortized using the
    product s estimated gross profits and margins, similar to
    deferred acquisition costs. Such amortization is recorded in
    universal life and investment-type product policy fees.

Also included in other policy-related balances are policyholder
    dividends due and unpaid on participating policies and
    policyholder dividends left on deposit. Such liabilities are
    presented at amounts contractually due to policyholders.

Policyholder
    Dividends Payable   

Policyholder dividends payable consists of liabilities related
    to dividends payable in the following calendar year on
    participating policies.

Liquidity
    and Capital Resources  

Overview  

Our business and results of operations are materially affected
    by conditions in the global capital markets and the economy,
    generally, both in the U.S. and elsewhere around the world.
    The global economy and markets are now recovering from a period
    of significant stress that began in the second half of 2007 and
    substantially increased through the first quarter of 2009. This
    disruption adversely affected the financial services industry,
    in particular. Consequently, financial institutions paid higher
    spreads over benchmark U.S. Treasury securities than before
    the market disruption began. The U.S. economy entered a
    recession in late 2007. This recession ended in mid-2009, but
    the recovery from the recession has been below historic averages
    and the unemployment rate is expected to remain high for some
    time. Although conditions in the financial markets continued to
    materially improve in 2010, there is still some uncertainty as
    to whether the stressed conditions that prevailed during the
    market disruption could recur, which could affect the
    Company s ability to meet liquidity needs and obtain
    capital.

Liquidity
    Management   

Based upon the strength of its franchise, diversification of its
    businesses and strong financial fundamentals, we continue to
    believe the Company has ample liquidity to meet business
    requirements under current market conditions and unlikely but
    reasonably possible stress scenarios. The Company s
    short-term liquidity position (cash and cash equivalents,
    short-term investments, excluding cash collateral received under
    the Company s securities lending program that has been
    reinvested in cash, cash equivalents, short-term investments and
    publicly-traded securities, and cash collateral received from
    counterparties in connection with derivative instruments) was
    $17.6 billion and $11.7 billion at December 31,
    2010 and 2009, respectively. We continuously monitor and adjust
    our liquidity and capital plans for the Holding Company and its
    subsidiaries in light of changing needs and opportunities.

156

Table of Contents   

The
    Company  

Liquidity   

Liquidity refers to a company s ability to generate
    adequate amounts of cash to meet its needs. Liquidity needs are
    determined from a rolling
     6-month 
    forecast by portfolio of investment assets and are monitored
    daily. Asset mix and maturities are adjusted based on the
    forecast. Cash flow testing and stress testing provide
    additional perspectives on liquidity, which include various
    scenarios of the potential risk of early contractholder and
    policyholder withdrawal. The Company includes provisions
    limiting withdrawal rights on many of its products, including
    general account institutional pension products (generally group
    annuities, including funding agreements, and certain deposit
    fund liabilities) sold to employee benefit plan sponsors.
    Certain of these provisions prevent the customer from making
    withdrawals prior to the maturity date of the product.

In the event of significant cash requirements beyond anticipated
    liquidity needs, the Company has various alternatives available
    depending on market conditions and the amount and timing of the
    liquidity need. These options include cash flows from
    operations, the sale of liquid assets, global funding sources
    and various credit facilities.

Under certain stressful market and economic conditions, the
    Company s access to, or cost of, liquidity may deteriorate.
    If the Company requires significant amounts of cash on short
    notice in excess of anticipated cash requirements, the Company
    may have difficulty selling investment assets in a timely
    manner, be forced to sell them for less than the Company
    otherwise would have been able to realize, or both. In addition,
    in the event of such forced sale, accounting rules require the
    recognition of a loss for certain securities in an unrealized
    loss position and may require the impairment of other securities
    based upon the Company s ability to hold such securities,
    which may negatively impact the Company s financial
    condition.

In extreme circumstances, all general account assets  
    other than those which may have been pledged to a specific
    purpose   within a statutory legal entity are
    available to fund obligations of the general account within that
    legal entity.

Capital   

The Company s capital position is managed to maintain its
    financial strength and credit ratings and is supported by its
    ability to generate strong cash flows at the operating
    companies, borrow funds at competitive rates and raise
    additional capital to meet its operating and growth needs.

The Company raised new capital from its debt issuances during
    the difficult market conditions prevailing since the second half
    of 2008, as well as during the rebound and recovery periods
    beginning in the second quarter of 2009 (see    The
    Company   Liquidity and Capital Sources  
    Debt Issuances and Other Borrowings ). The increase in
    credit spreads experienced since then has resulted in an
    increase in the cost of such new capital, as well as increases
    in facility fees. Conversely, as a result of reductions in
    interest rates, the Company s interest expense and
    dividends on floating rate securities have been lower.

Despite the still unsettled financial markets, the Company also
    raised new capital from a successful offering of the Holding
    Company s common stock in August 2010, which provided
    financing for the Acquisition. See    The
    Company   Liquidity and Capital Sources  
    Common Stock. 

Rating Agencies.   Rating agencies assign
    insurer financial strength ratings to the Holding Company s
    domestic life insurance subsidiaries and credit ratings to the
    Holding Company and certain of its subsidiaries. The level and
    composition of regulatory capital at the subsidiary level and
    equity capital of the Company are among the many factors
    considered in determining the Company s insurer financial
    strength and credit ratings. Each agency has its own capital
    adequacy evaluation methodology, and assessments are generally
    based on a combination of factors. In addition to heightening
    the level of scrutiny that they apply to insurance companies,
    rating agencies have increased and may continue to increase the
    frequency and scope of their credit reviews, may request
    additional information from the companies that they rate and may
    adjust upward the capital and other requirements employed in the
    rating agency models for maintenance of certain ratings levels.

157

Table of Contents   

A downgrade in the credit or insurer financial strength ratings
    of the Holding Company or its subsidiaries would likely impact
    the cost and availability of financing for the Company and its
    subsidiaries and result in additional collateral requirements or
    other required payments under certain agreements, which are
    eligible to be satisfied in cash or by posting securities held
    by the subsidiaries subject to the agreements.

Statutory Capital and Dividends.   Our insurance
    subsidiaries have statutory surplus well above levels to meet
    current regulatory requirements.

Except for American Life, RBC requirements are used as minimum
    capital requirements by the NAIC and the state insurance
    departments to identify companies that merit regulatory action.
    RBC is based on a formula calculated by applying factors to
    various asset, premium and statutory reserve items. The formula
    takes into account the risk characteristics of the insurer,
    including asset risk, insurance risk, interest rate risk and
    business risk and is calculated on an annual basis. The formula
    is used as an early warning regulatory tool to identify possible
    inadequately capitalized insurers for purposes of initiating
    regulatory action, and not as a means to rank insurers
    generally. These rules apply to each of the Holding
    Company s domestic insurance subsidiaries. State insurance
    laws provide insurance regulators the authority to require
    various actions by, or take various actions against, insurers
    whose total adjusted capital does not meet or exceed certain RBC
    levels. At the date of the most recent annual statutory
    financial statements filed with insurance regulators, the total
    adjusted capital of each of these subsidiaries was in excess of
    each of those RBC levels.

American Life does not write business in Delaware or any other
    domestic state and, as such, is exempt from RBC by Delaware law.
    In addition to Delaware, American Life operations are regulated
    by applicable authorities of the countries in which the company
    operates and are subject to capital and solvency requirements in
    those countries.

The amount of dividends that our insurance subsidiaries can pay
    to the Holding Company or other parent entities is constrained
    by the amount of surplus we hold to maintain our ratings and
    provides an additional margin for risk protection and investment
    in our businesses. We proactively take actions to maintain
    capital consistent with these ratings objectives, which may
    include adjusting dividend amounts and deploying financial
    resources from internal or external sources of capital. Certain
    of these activities may require regulatory approval.
    Furthermore, the payment of dividends and other distributions to
    the Company by its insurance subsidiaries is regulated by
    insurance laws and regulations. See  Business  
    U.S. Regulation   Insurance Regulation, 
       The Holding Company   Liquidity and
    Capital Sources   Dividends from Subsidiaries 
    and Note 18 of the Notes to the Consolidated Financial
    Statements. 

158

Table of Contents   

Summary of Primary Sources and Uses of Liquidity and
    Capital.   The Company s primary sources and
    uses of liquidity and capital are described below, and
    summarized as follows:

Liquidity
    and Capital Sources   

Cash Flows from Operations.   The Company s
    principal cash inflows from its insurance activities come from
    insurance premiums, annuity considerations and deposit funds. A
    primary liquidity concern with respect to these

159

Table of Contents   

cash inflows is the risk of early contractholder and
    policyholder withdrawal. See    The
    Company   Liquidity and Capital Uses  
    Contractual Obligations. 

Cash Flows from Investments.   The
    Company s principal cash inflows from its investment
    activities come from repayments of principal, proceeds from
    maturities, sales of invested assets and net investment income.
    The primary liquidity concerns with respect to these cash
    inflows are the risk of default by debtors and market
    volatility. The Company closely monitors and manages these risks
    through its credit risk management process.

Liquid Assets.   An integral part of the
    Company s liquidity management is the amount of liquid
    assets it holds. Liquid assets include cash, cash equivalents,
    short-term investments and publicly-traded securities,
    excluding: (i) cash collateral received under the
    Company s securities lending program that has been
    reinvested in cash, cash equivalents, short-term investments and
    publicly-traded securities; (ii) cash collateral received
    from counterparties in connection with derivative instruments;
    (iii) cash, cash equivalents, short-term investments and
    securities on deposit with regulatory agencies; and
    (iv) securities held in trust in support of collateral
    financing arrangements and pledged in support of debt and
    funding agreements. At December 31, 2010 and 2009, the
    Company had $245.7 billion and $158.4 billion in
    liquid assets, respectively. For further discussion of invested
    assets on deposit with regulatory agencies, held in trust in
    support of collateral financing arrangements and pledged in
    support of debt and funding agreements, see   
    Investments   Invested Assets on Deposit, Held in
    Trust and Pledged as Collateral. 

Global Funding Sources.   Liquidity is provided
    by a variety of short-term instruments, including funding
    agreements, credit facilities and commercial paper. Capital is
    provided by a variety of instruments, including short-term and
    long-term debt, preferred securities, junior subordinated debt
    securities and equity and equity-linked securities. The
    diversity of the Company s funding sources enhances funding
    flexibility, limits dependence on any one market or source of
    funds and generally lowers the cost of funds. The Company s
    global funding sources include:

The Holding Company and MetLife Funding, Inc. ( MetLife
    Funding ) each have commercial paper programs supported by
    $4.0 billion in general corporate credit facilities (see
       The Company   Liquidity and Capital
    Sources   Credit and Committed Facilities ).
    MetLife Funding, a subsidiary of MLIC, serves as a centralized
    finance unit for the Company. MetLife Funding raises cash from
    its commercial paper program and uses the proceeds to extend
    loans, through MetLife Credit Corp., another subsidiary of MLIC,
    to the Holding Company, MLIC and other affiliates in order to
    enhance the financial flexibility and liquidity of these
    companies. Outstanding balances for the commercial paper program
    fluctuate in line with changes to affiliates  financing
    arrangements. Pursuant to a support agreement, MLIC has agreed
    to cause MetLife Funding to have a tangible net worth of at
    least one dollar. At both December 31, 2010 and 2009,
    MetLife Funding had a tangible net worth of $12 million. At
    December 31, 2010 and 2009, MetLife Funding had total
    outstanding liabilities for its commercial paper program,
    including accrued interest payable, of $102 million and
    $319 million, respectively.

MetLife Bank is a depository institution that is approved to use
    the Federal Reserve Bank of New York Discount Window borrowing
    privileges. To utilize these privileges, MetLife Bank has
    pledged qualifying loans and investment securities to the
    Federal Reserve Bank of New York as collateral. At both
    December 31, 2010 and 2009, MetLife Bank had no liability
    for advances from the Federal Reserve Bank of New York under
    this facility.

MetLife Bank has a cash need to fund residential mortgage loans
    that it originates and generally holds for a relatively short
    period before selling them to one of the government-sponsored
    enterprises such as FNMA or FHLMC. The outstanding volume of
    residential mortgage originations varies from month to month and
    is cyclical within a month. To meet the variable funding
    requirements from this mortgage activity, as well as to increase
    overall liquidity from time to time, MetLife Bank takes
    advantage of short-term collateralized borrowing opportunities
    with the Federal Home Loan Bank of New York ( FHLB of
    NY ). MetLife Bank has entered into advances agreements
    with the FHLB of NY whereby MetLife Bank has received cash
    advances and under which the FHLB of NY has been granted a
    blanket lien on certain of MetLife Bank s residential
    mortgages, mortgage loans
     held-for-sale, 
    commercial mortgages and mortgage-backed securities to
    collateralize MetLife Bank s repayment obligations. Upon
    any event of default by MetLife Bank, the

160

Table of Contents   

FHLB of NY s recovery is limited to the amount of MetLife
    Bank s liability under the advances agreement. MetLife Bank
    has received advances from the FHLB of NY on both short- and
    long-term bases, with a total liability of $3.8 billion and
    $2.4 billion at December 31, 2010 and 2009,
    respectively.

The Company also had obligations under funding agreements with
    the FHLB of NY of $12.6 billion and $13.7 billion at
    December 31, 2010 and 2009, respectively, for MLIC, and
    with the Federal Home Loan Bank of Boston ( FHLB of
    Boston ) of $100 million and $326 million at
    December 31, 2010 and 2009, respectively, for MICC. See
    Note 8 of the Notes to the Consolidated Financial
    Statements. In September 2010, MetLife Investors Insurance
    Company and General American Life Insurance Company,
    subsidiaries of MetLife, Inc., each became a member of the
    Federal Home Loan Bank of Des Moines ( FHLB of Des
    Moines ), and each purchased $10 million of FHLB of
    Des Moines common stock. Membership in the FHLB of Des Moines
    provides an additional source of contingent liquidity for the
    Company. There were no funding agreements with the FHLB of Des
    Moines at December 31, 2010.

The Company issues fixed and floating rate funding agreements,
    which are denominated in either U.S. dollars or foreign
    currencies, to certain special purpose entities
    ( SPEs ) that have issued either debt securities or
    commercial paper for which payment of interest and principal is
    secured by such funding agreements. During the years ended
    December 31, 2010, 2009 and 2008, the Company issued
    $34.1 billion, $28.6 billion and $20.9 billion,
    respectively, and repaid $30.9 billion, $32.0 billion
    and $19.8 billion, respectively, of such funding
    agreements. At December 31, 2010 and 2009, funding
    agreements outstanding, which are included in policyholder
    account balances, were $27.2 billion and
    $23.3 billion, respectively.

MLIC and MICC have each issued funding agreements to certain
    SPEs that have issued debt securities for which payment of
    interest and principal is secured by such funding agreements,
    and such debt securities are also guaranteed as to payment of
    interest and principal by the Federal Agricultural Mortgage
    Corporation, a federally chartered instrumentality of the U.S.
    The obligations under these funding agreements are secured by a
    pledge of certain eligible agricultural real estate mortgage
    loans and may, under certain circumstances, be secured by other
    qualified collateral. The amount of the Company s liability
    for funding agreements issued to such SPEs was $2.8 billion
    and $2.5 billion at December 31, 2010 and 2009,
    respectively, which is included in policyholder account
    balances. The obligations under these funding agreements are
    collateralized by designated agricultural real estate mortgage
    loans with estimated fair values of $3.2 billion and
    $2.9 billion at December 31, 2010 and 2009,
    respectively.

Outstanding Debt.   The following table
    summarizes the outstanding debt of the Company at:

Debt Issuances and Other Borrowings.   In
    connection with the financing of the Acquisition (see
    Note 2 of the Notes to the Consolidated Financial
    Statements), in November 2010, MetLife, Inc. issued to ALICO
    Holdings $3,000 million in three series of debt securities
    (the  Series C Debt Securities,  the
     Series D Debt Securities  and the
     Series E Debt Securities,  and, together, the
     Debt Securities ), which constitute a part of the
    MetLife, Inc. common equity units (the  Equity Units )
    more fully described in Note 14 of the Notes to the
    Consolidated Financial Statements. The Debt Securities are
    subject to remarketing, initially bear interest at 1.56%, 1.92%
    and 2.46%, respectively (an average rate of 1.98%), and carry
    initial maturity dates of June 15, 2023, June 15, 2024
    and June 15, 2045, respectively. The interest rates will be
    reset in connection with the successful remarketings of the Debt
    Securities. Prior to the first scheduled attempted remarketing
    of the Series C Debt Securities, such Debt Securities will
    be divided into two tranches equal in principal amount with
    maturity dates of June 15, 2018 and June 15, 2023.
    Prior to the first scheduled attempted remarketing of the
    Series E Debt Securities, such Debt

161

Table of Contents   

Securities will be divided into two tranches equal in principal
    amount with maturity dates of June 15, 2018 and
    June 15, 2045.

In August 2010, in anticipation of the Acquisition, the Holding
    Company issued senior notes as follows:

In connection with these offerings, the Holding Company incurred
    $15 million of issuance costs which have been capitalized
    and included in other assets. These costs are being amortized
    over the terms of the senior notes.

In July 2009, the Holding Company issued $500 million of
    junior subordinated debt securities with a final maturity of
    August 2069. Interest is payable semi-annually at a fixed rate
    of 10.75% up to, but not including, August 1, 2039, the
    scheduled redemption date. In the event the debt securities are
    not redeemed on or before the scheduled redemption date,
    interest will accrue at an annual rate of
     3-month 
    LIBOR plus a margin equal to 7.548%, payable quarterly in
    arrears. In connection with the offering, the Holding Company
    incurred $5 million of issuance costs which have been
    capitalized and included in other assets. These costs are being
    amortized over the term of the securities. See Note 13 of
    the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements for a
    description of the terms of the junior subordinated debt
    securities.

In May 2009, the Holding Company issued $1.3 billion of
    senior notes due June 1, 2016. The notes bear interest at a
    fixed rate of 6.75%, payable semi-annually. In connection with
    the offering, the Holding Company incurred $6 million of
    issuance costs which have been capitalized and included in other
    assets. These costs are being amortized over the term of the
    notes.

In March 2009, the Holding Company issued $397 million of
    floating rate senior notes due June 2012 under the FDIC s
    Temporary Liquidity Guarantee Program. The notes bear interest
    at a rate equal to three-month LIBOR, reset quarterly, plus
    0.32%. The notes are not redeemable prior to their maturity. In
    connection with the offering, the Holding Company incurred
    $15 million of issuance costs which have been capitalized
    and included in other assets. These costs are being amortized
    over the term of the notes.

In February 2009, the Holding Company remarketed its existing
    $1.0 billion 4.91% Series B junior subordinated debt
    securities as 7.717% senior debt securities, Series B,
    due 2019. In August 2008, the Holding Company remarketed its
    existing $1.0 billion 4.82% Series A junior
    subordinated debt securities as 6.817% senior debt
    securities, Series A, due 2018. Interest on both series of
    debt securities is payable semi-annually. The Series A and
    Series B junior subordinated debt securities were
    originally issued in 2005 in connection with the common equity
    units. See    The Company   Liquidity and
    Capital Sources   Remarketing of Junior Subordinated
    Debt Securities and Settlement of Stock Purchase Contracts. 

In April 2008, MetLife Capital Trust X, a VIE consolidated
    by the Company, issued exchangeable surplus trust securities
    (the  2008 Trust Securities ) with a face amount
    of $750 million. Interest on the 2008 Trust Securities
    or debt securities is payable semi-annually at a fixed rate of
    9.25% up to, but not including, April 8, 2038, the
    scheduled redemption date. In the event the 2008
    Trust Securities or debt securities are not redeemed on or
    before the scheduled redemption date, interest will accrue at an
    annual rate of
     3-month 
    LIBOR plus a margin equal to 5.540%, payable quarterly in
    arrears. See Note 13 of the Notes to the Consolidated
    Financial Statements for a description of the terms of these
    debt securities.

162

Table of Contents   

Collateral Financing Arrangements.   As
    described more fully in Note 12 of the Notes to the
    Consolidated Financial Statements:

In December 2007, the Holding Company, in connection with the
    collateral financing arrangement associated with MetLife
    Reinsurance Company of Charleston s ( MRC )
    reinsurance of the closed block liabilities, entered into an
    agreement with the unaffiliated financial institution that
    referenced the $2.5 billion aggregate principal amount of
     35-year 
    surplus notes issued by MRC. Under the agreement, the Holding
    Company is entitled to the interest paid by MRC on the surplus
    notes of
     3-month 
    LIBOR plus 0.55% in exchange for the payment of
     3-month 
    LIBOR plus 1.12%, payable quarterly on such amount as adjusted,
    as described below.

Under this agreement, the Holding Company may also be required
    to pledge collateral or make payments to the unaffiliated
    financial institution related to any decline in the estimated
    fair value of the surplus notes. Any such payments would be
    accounted for as a receivable and included in other assets on
    the Company s consolidated balance sheets and would not
    reduce the principal amount outstanding of the surplus notes.
    Such payments would, however, reduce the amount of interest
    payments due from the Holding Company under the agreement. Any
    payment received from the unaffiliated financial institution
    would reduce the receivable by an amount equal to such payment
    and would also increase the amount of interest payments due from
    the Holding Company under the agreement. In addition, the
    unaffiliated financial institution may be required to pledge
    collateral to the Holding Company related to any increase in the
    estimated fair value of the surplus notes. During 2008, the
    Holding Company paid an aggregate of $800 million to the
    unaffiliated financial institution relating to declines in the
    estimated fair value of the surplus notes. The Holding Company
    did not receive any payments from the unaffiliated financial
    institution during 2008. During 2009, on a net basis, the
    Holding Company received $375 million from the unaffiliated
    financial institution related to changes in the estimated fair
    value of the surplus notes. No payments were made or received by
    the Holding Company during 2010. Since the closing of the
    collateral financing arrangement in December 2007, on a net
    basis, the Holding Company has paid $425 million to the
    unaffiliated financial institution related to changes in the
    estimated fair value of the surplus notes. In addition, at
    December 31, 2010, the Holding Company had pledged
    collateral with an estimated fair value of $49 million to
    the unaffiliated financial institution. At December 31,
    2009, the Holding Company had no collateral pledged to the
    unaffiliated financial institution in connection with this
    agreement. The Holding Company may also be required to make a
    payment to the unaffiliated financial institution in connection
    with any early termination of this agreement.

In May 2007, the Holding Company, in connection with the
    collateral financing arrangement associated with MetLife
    Reinsurance Company of South Carolina s ( MRSC )
    reinsurance of universal life secondary guarantees, entered into
    an agreement with an unaffiliated financial institution under
    which the Holding Company is entitled to the return on the
    investment portfolio held by trusts established in connection
    with this collateral financing arrangement in exchange for the
    payment of a stated rate of return to the unaffiliated financial
    institution of
     3-month 
    LIBOR plus 0.70%, payable quarterly. The collateral financing
    agreement may be extended by agreement of the Holding Company
    and the unaffiliated financial institution on each anniversary
    of the closing. The Holding Company may also be required to make
    payments to the unaffiliated financial institution, for deposit
    into the trusts, related to any decline in the estimated fair
    value of the assets held by the trusts, as well as amounts
    outstanding upon maturity or early termination of the collateral
    financing arrangement. During 2010, no payments were made or
    received by the Holding Company. During 2009 and 2008, the
    Holding Company contributed $360 million and
    $320 million, respectively, as a result of declines in the
    estimated fair value of the assets in the trusts. Cumulatively,
    since May 2007, the Holding Company has contributed a total of
    $680 million as a result of declines in the estimated fair
    value of the assets in the trusts, all of which was deposited
    into the trusts.

In addition, the Holding Company may be required to pledge
    collateral to the unaffiliated financial institution under this
    agreement. At December 31, 2010 and 2009, the Holding
    Company had pledged $63 million and $80 million under
    the agreement, respectively.

163

Table of Contents   

Remarketing of Junior Subordinated Debt Securities and
    Settlement of Stock Purchase Contracts.   In
    February 2009, the Holding Company closed the successful
    remarketing of the Series B portion of the junior
    subordinated debt securities underlying the common equity units.
    The Series B junior subordinated debt securities were
    modified as permitted by their terms to be 7.717% senior
    debt securities, Series B, due February 15, 2019. The
    Holding Company did not receive any proceeds from the
    remarketing. Most common equity unit holders chose to have their
    junior subordinated debt securities remarketed and used the
    remarketing proceeds to settle their payment obligations under
    the applicable stock purchase contract. For those common equity
    unit holders that elected not to participate in the remarketing
    and elected to use their own cash to satisfy the payment
    obligations under the stock purchase contract, the terms of the
    debt are the same as the remarketed debt. The subsequent
    settlement of the stock purchase contracts occurred on
    February 17, 2009, providing proceeds to the Holding
    Company of $1,035 million in exchange for shares of the
    Holding Company s common stock. The Holding Company
    delivered 24,343,154 shares of its newly issued common
    stock to settle the stock purchase contracts.

In August 2008, the Holding Company closed the successful
    remarketing of the Series A portion of the junior
    subordinated debt securities underlying the common equity units.
    The Series A junior subordinated debt securities were
    modified as permitted by their terms to be 6.817% senior
    debt securities, Series A, due August 15, 2018. The
    Holding Company did not receive any proceeds from the
    remarketing. Most common equity unit holders chose to have their
    junior subordinated debt securities remarketed and used the
    remarketing proceeds to settle their payment obligations under
    the applicable stock purchase contract. For those common equity
    unit holders that elected not to participate in the remarketing
    and elected to use their own cash to satisfy the payment
    obligations under the stock purchase contract, the terms of the
    debt are the same as the remarketed debt. The initial settlement
    of the stock purchase contracts occurred on August 15,
    2008, providing proceeds to the Holding Company of
    $1,035 million in exchange for shares of the Holding
    Company s common stock. The Holding Company delivered
    20,244,549 shares of its common stock held in treasury at a
    value of $1,064 million to settle the stock purchase
    contracts.

Other.   In March 2009, the Company sold Cova
    Corporation, the parent company of Texas Life Insurance Company,
    for $130 million in cash consideration, excluding
    $1 million of transaction costs. The proceeds of the
    transaction were paid to the Holding Company.

Credit and Committed Facilities.   The Company
    maintains unsecured credit facilities and committed facilities,
    which aggregated $4.0 billion and $12.4 billion,
    respectively, at December 31, 2010. When drawn upon, these
    facilities bear interest at varying rates in accordance with the
    respective agreements.

The unsecured credit facilities are used for general corporate
    purposes, to support the borrowers  commercial paper
    programs and for the issuance of letters of credit. At
    December 31, 2010, the Company had outstanding
    $1.5 billion in letters of credit and no drawdowns against
    these facilities. Remaining unused commitments were
    $2.5 billion at December 31, 2010.

The committed facilities are used for collateral for certain of
    the Company s affiliated reinsurance liabilities. At
    December 31, 2010, the Company had outstanding
    $5.4 billion in letters of credit and $2.8 billion in
    aggregate drawdowns against these facilities. Remaining unused
    commitments were $4.2 billion at December 31, 2010.

See Note 11 of the Notes to the Consolidated Financial
    Statements for further discussion of these facilities.

We have no reason to believe that our lending counterparties
    will be unable to fulfill their respective contractual
    obligations under these facilities. As commitments associated
    with letters of credit and financing arrangements may expire
    unused, these amounts do not necessarily reflect the
    Company s actual future cash funding requirements.

As a result of the successful offerings of certain senior notes
    and common stock in August 2010, the commitment letter for a
    $5.0 billion senior credit facility, which the Holding
    Company signed to partially finance the Acquisition, was
    terminated. During March 2010, the Holding Company paid
    $28 million in fees related to this senior credit facility,
    all of which were expensed during the year ended
    December 31, 2010.

Covenants.   Certain of the Company s debt
    instruments, credit facilities and committed facilities contain
    various administrative, reporting, legal and financial
    covenants. The Company believes it was in compliance with all
    covenants at December 31, 2010 and 2009.

164

Table of Contents   

Preferred Stock.   During the year ended
    December 31, 2010, the Holding Company did not issue any
    non-convertible preferred stock. In December 2008, the Holding
    Company entered into a replacement capital covenant (the
     Replacement Capital Covenant ) whereby the Company
    agreed for the benefit of holders of one or more series of the
    Company s unsecured long-term indebtedness designated from
    time to time by the Company in accordance with the terms of the
    Replacement Capital Covenant ( Covered Debt ), that
    the Company will not repay, redeem or purchase and will cause
    its subsidiaries not to repay, redeem or purchase, on or before
    the termination of the Replacement Capital Covenant on
    December 31, 2018 (or earlier termination by agreement of
    the holders of Covered Debt or when there is no longer any
    outstanding series of unsecured long-term indebtedness which
    qualifies for designation as  Covered Debt ), the
    Floating Rate Non-Cumulative Preferred Stock, Series A, of
    the Holding Company or the 6.500% Non-Cumulative Preferred
    Stock, Series B, of the Holding Company, unless such
    repayment, redemption or purchase is made from the proceeds of
    the issuance of certain replacement capital securities and
    pursuant to the other terms and conditions set forth in the
    Replacement Capital Covenant.

Convertible Preferred Stock.   In November 2010,
    the Holding Company issued to ALICO Holdings in connection with
    the financing of the Acquisition 6,857,000 shares of
    Series B contingent convertible junior participating
    non-cumulative perpetual preferred stock (the  Convertible
    Preferred Stock ) convertible into approximately
    68,570,000 shares (valued at $40.90 per share at the time
    of the Acquisition) of the Holding Company s common stock
    (subject to anti-dilution adjustments) upon a favorable vote of
    the Holding Company s common stockholders. If a favorable
    vote of its common stockholders is not obtained by the first
    anniversary of the Acquisition Date, then the Holding Company
    must pay ALICO Holdings $300 million and use reasonable
    efforts to list the preferred stock on NYSE. Management
    considers the likelihood that the Holding Company will fail to
    obtain a vote of its common stockholders to be remote.

Common Stock.   In November 2010, the Holding
    Company issued to ALICO Holdings in connection with the
    financing of the Acquisition 78,239,712 new shares of its common
    stock at $40.90 per share. The aggregate amount of MetLife,
    Inc. s common stock to be issued to ALICO Holdings in
    connection with the transaction is expected to be
    214.6 million to 231.5 million shares, consisting of
    the 78.2 million shares issued at closing,
    68.6 million shares to be issued upon conversion of the
    Convertible Preferred Stock (with the stockholder vote on such
    conversion to be held within one year after the closing)
    (together with $3.0 billion aggregate stated amount of
    Equity Units of MetLife, Inc., the  Securities ) and
    between 67.8 million and 84.7 million shares of common
    stock, in total, issuable upon settlement of the purchase
    contracts forming part of the Equity Units (in three tranches
    approximately two, three and four years after the closing). The
    ownership of the Securities is subject to an investor rights
    agreement, which grants to ALICO Holdings certain rights and
    sets forth certain agreements with respect to ALICO
    Holdings  ownership, voting and transfer of the Securities,
    including minimum holding periods, restrictions on the number of
    shares ALICO Holdings can sell at one time, its agreement to
    vote the common stock in the same proportion as the common stock
    voted by all other stockholders, and its agreement not to seek
    control or influence the Company s management or Board of
    Directors. ALICO Holdings has indicated that it intends to
    monetize the Securities over time, subject to market conditions,
    following the lapse of
     agreed-upon 
    minimum holding periods. See    The
    Company   Liquidity and Capital Sources  
    Equity Units. 

In August 2010, the Holding Company issued 86,250,000 new shares
    of its common stock at a price of $42.00 per share for gross
    proceeds of $3,623 million. In connection with the offering
    of common stock, the Holding Company incurred $94 million
    of issuance costs which have been recorded as a reduction of
    additional
     paid-in-capital. 

In connection with the remarketing of the junior subordinated
    debt securities, in February 2009, the Holding Company delivered
    24,343,154 shares of its newly issued common stock, and in
    August 2008, the Holding Company delivered
    20,244,549 shares of its common stock from treasury stock,
    to settle the stock purchase contracts. See    The
    Company   Liquidity and Capital Sources  
    Remarketing of Junior Subordinated Debt Securities and
    Settlement of Stock Purchase Contracts. 

In October 2008, the Holding Company issued
    86,250,000 shares of its common stock at a price of $26.50
    per share for gross proceeds of $2.3 billion. Of these
    shares issued, 75,000,000 shares were issued from treasury
    stock, and 11,250,000 were newly issued shares.

165

Table of Contents   

During the years ended December 31, 2010, 2009 and 2008,
    332,121 shares, 861,586 shares and
    2,271,188 shares of common stock were issued from treasury
    stock for $18 million, $46 million and
    $118 million, respectively, to satisfy various stock option
    exercises. During the year ended December 31, 2010,
    2,182,174 new shares of common stock were issued for
    $74 million to satisfy various stock option exercises.
    During both the years ended December 31, 2009 and 2008, no
    new shares of common stock were issued to satisfy stock option
    exercises.

Equity Units.   In November 2010, the Holding
    Company issued to ALICO Holdings in connection with the
    financing of the Acquisition $3.0 billion aggregate stated
    amount of Equity Units. The Equity Units, which are mandatorily
    convertible securities, will initially consist of
    (i) purchase contracts obligating the holder to purchase a
    variable number of shares of MetLife, Inc. s common stock
    on each of three specified future settlement dates (expected to
    be approximately two, three and four years after closing of the
    Acquisition), for a fixed amount per purchase contract, (an
    aggregate of $1.0 billion on each settlement date) and
    (ii) an interest in each of three series of Debt Securities
    of MetLife, Inc. The value of the purchase contracts at issuance
    of $247 million was calculated as the present value of the
    future contract payments and was recorded in other liabilities.
    At future dates, the Series C, D and E Debt Securities will
    be subject to remarketing and sold to investors. Holders of the
    Equity Units who elect to include their Debt Securities in a
    remarketing can use the proceeds thereof to meet their
    obligations under the purchase contracts.

See Note 14 of the Notes to the Consolidated Financial
    Statements for further discussion of the Equity Units.

Liquidity
    and Capital Uses   

Acquisitions.   The computation of the purchase
    price of the Acquisition is presented below:

Debt Repayments.   During the years ended
    December 31, 2010, 2009 and 2008, MetLife Bank made
    repayments of $349 million, $497 million and
    $371 million, respectively, to the FHLB of NY related to
    long-term borrowings. During the years ended December 31,
    2010, 2009 and 2008, MetLife Bank made repayments to the FHLB of
    NY related to short-term borrowings of $12.9 billion,
    $26.4 billion and $4.6 billion, respectively. During
    the years ended December 31, 2009 and 2008, MetLife Bank
    made repayments related to short-term borrowings to the Federal
    Reserve Bank of New York of $21.2 billion and
    650 million, respectively. No repayments were made to the
    Federal Reserve Bank of New York during the year ended
    December 31, 2010. During the year ended December 31,
    2009, MICC made repayments of $300 million to the FHLB of
    Boston related to short-term borrowings. No repayments were made
    to the FHLB of Boston during the years ended December 31,
    2010 and 2008.

Debt Repurchases.   We may from time to time
    seek to retire or purchase our outstanding debt through cash
    purchases
     and/or 
    exchanges for other securities, in open market purchases,
    privately negotiated transactions or otherwise. Any such
    repurchases or exchanges will be dependent upon several factors,
    including our liquidity requirements, contractual restrictions,
    general market conditions, and applicable regulatory, legal and
    accounting factors. Whether or not to repurchase any debt and
    the size and timing of any such repurchases will be determined
    in the Company s discretion.

Insurance Liabilities.   The Company s
    principal cash outflows primarily relate to the liabilities
    associated with its various life insurance, property and
    casualty, annuity and group pension products, operating expenses
    and income tax, as well as principal and interest on its
    outstanding debt obligations. Liabilities arising from its
    insurance activities primarily relate to benefit payments under
    the aforementioned products, as well as payments for policy

166

Table of Contents   

surrenders, withdrawals and loans. For annuity or deposit type
    products, surrender or lapse product behavior differs somewhat
    by segment. In the Retirement Products segment, which includes
    individual annuities, lapses and surrenders tend to occur in the
    normal course of business. During the years ended
    December 31, 2010 and 2009, general account surrenders and
    withdrawals from annuity products were $3.8 billion and
    $4.3 billion, respectively. In the Corporate Benefit
    Funding segment, which includes pension closeouts, bank owned
    life insurance and other fixed annuity contracts, as well as
    funding agreements (including funding agreements with the FHLB
    of NY and the FHLB of Boston) and other capital market products,
    most of the products offered have fixed maturities or fairly
    predictable surrenders or withdrawals. With regard to Corporate
    Benefit Funding liabilities that provide customers with limited
    liquidity rights, at December 31, 2010 there were
    $1,615 million of funding agreements and other capital
    market products that could be put back to the Company after a
    period of notice. Of these liabilities, $1,565 million were
    subject to notice periods between 15 and 90 days. The
    remainder of the balance was subject to a notice period of
    9 months or greater. An additional $375 million of
    Corporate Benefit Funding liabilities were subject to credit
    ratings downgrade triggers that permit early termination subject
    to a notice period of 90 days. See    The
    Company   Liquidity and Capital Uses  
    Contractual Obligations. 

Dividends.   Th e  table below presents
    declaration, record and payment dates, as well as per share and
    aggregate dividend amounts, for the common stock:

(1)  

Includes dividends on Convertible Preferred Stock issued in
    November 2010. See    The Company  
    Liquidity and Capital Sources   Convertible Preferred
    Stock.  

Future common stock dividend decisions will be determined by the
    Holding Company s Board of Directors after taking into
    consideration factors such as the Company s current
    earnings, expected medium- and long-term earnings, financial
    condition, regulatory capital position, and applicable
    governmental regulations and policies. Furthermore, the payment
    of dividends and other distributions to the Holding Company by
    its insurance subsidiaries is regulated by insurance laws and
    regulations.

167

Table of Contents   

Information on the declaration, record and payment dates, as
    well as per share and aggregate dividend amounts, for the
    Holding Company s Floating Rate Non-Cumulative Preferred
    Stock, Series A and 6.500%
     Non-Cumulative 
    Preferred Stock, Series B is as follows for the years ended
    December 31, 2010, 2009 and 2008:

Share Repurchases.   At January 1, 2008,
    the Company had $511 million remaining under its common
    stock repurchase program authorizations. In both January and
    April 2008, the Company s Board of Directors authorized
    $1.0 billion common stock repurchase programs. During the
    year ended December 31, 2008, the Company repurchased
    19,716,418 shares for $1.2 billion under accelerated
    share repurchases and 1,550,000 shares for $88 million
    in open market repurchases. At December 31, 2008, the
    Company had $1.3 billion remaining under its common stock
    repurchase program authorizations. During the years ended
    December 31, 2010 and 2009, the Company did not repurchase
    any shares.

Under these common stock repurchase program authorizations, the
    Holding Company may purchase its common stock from the MetLife
    Policyholder Trust, in the open market (including pursuant to
    the terms of a pre-set trading plan meeting the requirements of
     Rule 10b5-1 
    under the Exchange Act) and in privately negotiated
    transactions. Any future common stock repurchases will be
    dependent upon several factors, including the Company s
    capital position, its liquidity, its financial strength and
    credit ratings, general market conditions and the price of
    MetLife, Inc. s common stock compared to management s
    assessment of the stock s underlying value and applicable
    regulatory, legal and accounting factors. Whether or not to
    purchase any common stock and the size and timing of any such
    purchases will be determined in the Company s complete
    discretion.

Residential Mortgage Loans
     Held-for-Sale.    At
    December 31, 2010, the Company held $3,321 million in
    residential mortgage loans
     held-for-sale, 
    compared with $2,728 million at December 31, 2009, an
    increase of $593 million. From time to time, MetLife Bank
    has an increased cash need to fund mortgage loans that it
    generally holds for a relatively short period before selling
    them to one of the government-sponsored enterprises such as FNMA
    or FHLMC. To meet these increased funding requirements, as well
    as to increase overall liquidity, MetLife Bank takes advantage
    of collateralized borrowing opportunities with the Federal
    Reserve Bank of New York and the FHLB of NY. For further detail
    on MetLife Bank s use of these funding sources, see
       The Company   Liquidity and Capital
    Sources   Global Funding Sources. 

Investment and Other.   Additional cash outflows
    include those related to obligations of securities lending
    activities, investments in real estate, limited partnerships and
    joint ventures, as well as litigation-related liabilities. Also,
    the Company pledges collateral to, and has collateral pledged to
    it by, counterparties under the Company s current
    derivative transactions. With respect to derivative transactions
    with credit ratings downgrade triggers, a two-

168

Table of Contents   

notch downgrade would have increased the Company s
    derivative collateral requirements by $159 million at
    December 31, 2010. In addition, the Company has pledged
    collateral and has had collateral pledged to it, and may be
    required from time to time to pledge additional collateral or be
    entitled to have additional collateral pledged to it, in
    connection with collateral financing arrangements related to the
    reinsurance of closed block liabilities and universal life
    secondary guarantee liabilities. See    The
    Company   Liquidity and Capital Sources  
    Collateral Financing Arrangements. 

Securities Lending.   The Company participates
    in a securities lending program whereby blocks of securities,
    which are included in fixed maturity securities and short-term
    investments, are loaned to third parties, primarily brokerage
    firms and commercial banks, and the Company receives cash
    collateral from the borrower, which must be returned to the
    borrower when the loaned securities are returned to the Company.
    Under the Company s securities lending program, the Company
    was liable for cash collateral under its control of
    $24.6 billion and $21.5 billion at December 31,
    2010 and 2009, respectively. Of these amounts, $2.8 billion
    and $3.3 billion at December 31, 2010 and 2009,
    respectively, were on open terms, meaning that the related
    loaned security could be returned to the Company on the next
    business day upon return of cash collateral. Of the
    $2.7 billion of estimated fair value of the securities
    related to the cash collateral on open terms at
    December 31, 2010, $2.3 billion were
    U.S. Treasury, agency and government guaranteed securities
    which, if put to the Company, can be immediately sold to satisfy
    the cash requirements. See    Investments  
    Securities Lending  for further information.

Other.   In September 2008, in connection with
    the split-off of Reinsurance Group of America ( RGA )
    as described in Note 2 of the Notes to the Consolidated
    Financial Statements, the Company received from MetLife
    stockholders 23,093,689 shares of MetLife, Inc. s
    common stock with a market value of $1.3 billion and, in
    exchange, delivered 29,243,539 shares of RGA Class B
    common stock with a net book value of $1.7 billion
    resulting in a loss on disposition, including transaction costs,
    of $458 million.

Contractual Obligations.   The following table
    summarizes the Company s major contractual obligations at
    December 31, 2010:

Future policy benefits    Future policy benefits
    include liabilities related to traditional whole life policies,
    term life policies, pension closeout and other group annuity
    contracts, structured settlements, master terminal funding
    agreements, single premium immediate annuities, long-term
    disability policies, individual disability income policies, LTC
    policies and property and casualty contracts. Included within
    future policy benefits are contracts where the Company is
    currently making payments and will continue to do so until the
    occurrence of a specific event such as death, as well as those
    where the timing of a portion of the payments has been
    determined  

169

Table of Contents   

by the contract. Also included are contracts where the Company
    is not currently making payments and will not make payments
    until the occurrence of an insurable event, such as death or
    illness, or where the occurrence of the payment triggering
    event, such as a surrender of a policy or contract, is outside
    the control of the Company. The Company has estimated the timing
    of the cash flows related to these contracts based on historical
    experience, as well as its expectation of future payment
    patterns. 

Liabilities related to accounting conventions, or which are not
    contractually due, such as shadow liabilities, excess interest
    reserves and property and casualty loss adjustment expenses, of
    $1.4 billion have been excluded from amounts presented in
    the table above. 

Amounts presented in the table above, excluding those related to
    property and casualty contracts, represent the estimated cash
    payments for benefits under such contracts including assumptions
    related to the receipt of future premiums and assumptions
    related to mortality, morbidity, policy lapse, renewal,
    retirement, inflation, disability incidence, disability
    terminations, policy loans and other contingent events as
    appropriate to the respective product type. Payments for case
    reserve liabilities and incurred but not reported liabilities
    associated with property and casualty contracts of
    $1.5 billion have been included using an estimate of the
    ultimate amount to be settled under the policies based upon
    historical payment patterns. The ultimate amount to be paid
    under property and casualty contracts is not determined until
    the Company reaches a settlement with the claimant, which may
    vary significantly from the liability or contractual obligation
    presented above especially as it relates to incurred but not
    reported liabilities. All estimated cash payments presented in
    the table above are undiscounted as to interest, net of
    estimated future premiums on policies currently in-force and
    gross of any reinsurance recoverable. The more than five years
    category includes estimated payments due for periods extending
    for more than 100 years from the present date. 

The sum of the estimated cash flows shown for all years in the
    table of $319.6 billion exceeds the liability amount of
    $173.4 billion included on the consolidated balance sheet
    principally due to the time value of money, which accounts for
    at least 80% of the difference, as well as differences in
    assumptions, most significantly mortality, between the date the
    liabilities were initially established and the current date. 

For the majority of the Company s insurance operations,
    estimated contractual obligations for future policy benefits and
    policyholder account balance liabilities as presented in the
    table above are derived from the annual asset adequacy analysis
    used to develop actuarial opinions of statutory reserve adequacy
    for state regulatory purposes. These cash flows are materially
    representative of the cash flows under GAAP. (See
       Policyholder account balances  below.) 

Actual cash payments to policyholders may differ significantly
    from the liabilities as presented in the consolidated balance
    sheet and the estimated cash payments as presented in the table
    above due to differences between actual experience and the
    assumptions used in the establishment of these liabilities and
    the estimation of these cash payments. 

Policyholder account balances    Policyholder
    account balances include liabilities related to conventional
    guaranteed interest contracts, guaranteed interest contracts
    associated with formal offering programs, funding agreements,
    individual and group annuities, total control accounts,
    individual and group universal life, variable universal life and
    company-owned life insurance. 

Included within policyholder account balances are contracts
    where the amount and timing of the payment is essentially fixed
    and determinable. These amounts relate to policies where the
    Company is currently making payments and will continue to do so,
    as well as those where the timing of the payments has been
    determined by the contract. Other contracts involve payment
    obligations where the timing of future payments is uncertain and
    where the Company is not currently making payments and will not
    make payments until the occurrence of an insurable event, such
    as death, or where the occurrence of the payment triggering
    event, such as a surrender of or partial withdrawal on a policy
    or deposit contract, is outside the control of the Company. The
    Company has estimated the timing of the cash flows related to
    these contracts based on historical experience, as well as its
    expectation of future payment patterns. 

Excess interest reserves representing purchase accounting
    adjustments of $539 million, as well as $2.4 billion
    relating to embedded derivatives, have been excluded from
    amounts presented in the table above as they represent
    accounting conventions and not contractual obligations. 

170

Table of Contents   

Amounts presented in the table above represent the estimated
    cash payments to be made to policyholders undiscounted as to
    interest and including assumptions related to the receipt of
    future premiums and deposits; withdrawals, including unscheduled
    or partial withdrawals; policy lapses; surrender charges;
    annuitization; mortality; future interest credited; policy loans
    and other contingent events as appropriate to the respective
    product type. Such estimated cash payments are also presented
    net of estimated future premiums on policies currently in-force
    and gross of any reinsurance recoverable. For obligations
    denominated in foreign currencies, cash payments have been
    estimated using current spot rates. 

The sum of the estimated cash flows shown for all years in the
    table of $289.8 billion exceeds the liability amount of
    $211.0 billion included on the consolidated balance sheet
    principally due to the time value of money, which accounts for
    at least 80% of the difference, as well as differences in
    assumptions between the date the liabilities were initially
    established and the current date. See the comments under
       Future policy benefits  above regarding
    the source and uncertainties associated with the estimation of
    the contractual obligations related to future policyholder
    benefits and policyholder account balances. 

Other policyholder liabilities    Other
    policyholder liabilities are comprised of other policy-related
    balances, policyholder dividends payable and the policyholder
    dividend obligation. Amounts included in the table above related
    to these balances are as follows: 

a. Other policy-related balances includes liabilities for
    incurred but not reported claims and claims payable on group
    term life, long-term disability, long-term care and dental;
    policyholder dividends left on deposit and policyholder
    dividends due and unpaid related primarily to traditional life
    and group life and health; and premiums received in advance.
    Liabilities related to unearned revenue and negative VOBA of
    $2.2 billion and $4.3 billion, respectively, have been
    excluded from the cash payments presented in the table above
    because they reflect accounting conventions and not contractual
    obligations. With the exception of policyholder dividends left
    on deposit, and those items excluded as noted in the preceding
    sentence, the contractual obligation presented in the table
    above related to other policy-related balances is equal to the
    liability reflected in the consolidated balance sheet. Such
    amounts are reported in the one year or less category due to the
    short-term nature of the liabilities. Contractual obligations on
    policyholder dividends left on deposit are projected based on
    assumptions of policyholder withdrawal activity.

b. Policyholder dividends payable consists of liabilities
    related to dividends payable in the following calendar year on
    participating policies. As such, the contractual obligation
    related to policyholder dividends payable is presented in the
    table above in the one year or less category at the amount of
    the liability presented in the consolidated balance sheet.

c. The nature of the policyholder dividend obligation is
    described in Note 18 of the Notes to the Consolidated
    Financial Statements. Because the exact timing and amount of the
    ultimate policyholder dividend obligation is subject to
    significant uncertainty and the amount of the policyholder
    dividend obligation is based upon a long-term projection of the
    performance of the closed block, we have reflected the
    obligation at the amount of the liability, if any, presented in
    the consolidated balance sheet in the more than five years
    category. This was presented to reflect the long-duration of the
    liability and the uncertainty of the ultimate cash payment.

Payables for collateral under securities loaned and other
    transactions    The Company has accepted cash
    collateral in connection with securities lending and derivative
    transactions. As the securities lending transactions expire
    within the next year or the timing of the return of the
    collateral is uncertain, the return of the collateral has been
    included in the one year or less category in the table above.
    The Company also holds non-cash collateral, which is not
    reflected as a liability in the consolidated balance sheet, of
    $984 million at December 31, 2010. 

Bank deposits    Bank deposits of
    $10.4 billion exceed the amount on the balance sheet of
    $10.3 billion due to the inclusion of estimated interest
    payments. Liquid deposits, including demand deposit accounts,
    money market accounts and savings accounts, are assumed to
    mature at carrying value within one year. Certificates of
    deposit are assumed to pay all interest and principal at
    maturity. 

Short-term debt, long-term debt, collateral financing
    arrangements and junior subordinated debt
    securities    Amounts presented in the table above
    for short-term debt, long-term debt, collateral financing
    arrangements and junior subordinated debt securities differ from
    the balances presented on the consolidated balance sheet as the
    amounts presented in the table above do not include premiums or
    discounts upon issuance or purchase  

171

Table of Contents   

accounting fair value adjustments. The amounts presented above
    also include interest on such obligations as described below. 

Short-term debt consists of borrowings with original maturities
    of one year or less carrying fixed interest rates. The
    contractual obligation for short-term debt presented in the
    table above represents the principal amounts due upon maturity
    plus the related interest for the period from January 1,
    2011 through maturity. 

Long-term debt bears interest at fixed and variable interest
    rates through their respective maturity dates. Interest on fixed
    rate debt was computed using the stated rate on the obligations
    for the period from January 1, 2011 through maturity.
    Interest on variable rate debt was computed using prevailing
    rates at December 31, 2010 and, as such, does not consider
    the impact of future rate movements. Long-term debt also
    includes payments under capital lease obligations of
    $3 million, $2 million, $0 and $27 million, in
    the one year or less, more than one year to three years, more
    than three years to five years and more than five years
    categories, respectively. Long-term debt presented in the table
    above excludes $6,820 million at December 31, 2010 of
    long-term debt relating to CSEs. 

Collateral financing arrangements bear interest at fixed and
    variable interest rates through their respective maturity dates.
    Interest on fixed rate debt was computed using the stated rate
    on the obligations for the period from January 1, 2011
    through maturity. Interest on variable rate debt was computed
    using prevailing rates at December 31, 2010 and, as such,
    does not consider the impact of future rate movements. Pursuant
    to these collateral financing arrangements, the Holding Company
    may be required to deliver cash or pledge collateral to the
    respective unaffiliated financial institutions. See
       The Company   Liquidity and Capital
    Sources   Collateral Financing Arrangements.  

Junior subordinated debt securities bear interest at fixed
    interest rates through their respective redemption dates.
    Interest was computed using the stated rates on the obligations
    for the period from January 1, 2011 through the scheduled
    redemption dates as it is the Company s expectation that
    the debt will be redeemed at that time. Inclusion of interest
    payments on junior subordinated debt through the final maturity
    dates would increase the contractual obligation by
    $7.7 billion. 

Commitments to lend funds    The Company commits
    to lend funds under mortgage loans, partnerships, bank credit
    facilities, bridge loans and private corporate bond investments.
    In the table above, the timing of the funding of mortgage loans
    and private corporate bond investments is based on the
    expiration date of the commitment. As it relates to commitments
    to lend funds to partnerships and under bank credit facilities,
    the Company anticipates that these amounts could be invested any
    time over the next five years; however, as the timing of the
    fulfillment of the obligation cannot be predicted, such
    obligations are presented in the one year or less category in
    the table above. Commitments to fund bridge loans are short-term
    obligations and, as a result, are presented in the one year or
    less category in the table above. See
       Off-Balance Sheet Arrangements.  

Operating leases    As a lessee, the Company has
    various operating leases, primarily for office space.
    Contractual provisions exist that could increase or accelerate
    those lease obligations presented, including various leases with
    early buyouts
     and/or 
    escalation clauses. However, the impact of any such transactions
    would not be material to the Company s financial position
    or results of operations. See    Off-Balance
    Sheet Arrangements.  

Other    Includes other miscellaneous
    contractual obligations of $32 million not included
    elsewhere in the table above. Other liabilities presented in the
    table above are principally comprised of amounts due under
    reinsurance arrangements, payables related to securities
    purchased but not yet settled, securities sold short, accrued
    interest on debt obligations, estimated fair value of derivative
    obligations, deferred compensation arrangements, guaranty
    liabilities, the estimated fair value of forward stock purchase
    contracts, as well as general accruals and accounts payable due
    under contractual obligations. If the timing of any of the other
    liabilities is sufficiently uncertain, the amounts are included
    within the one year or less category. 

The other liabilities presented in the table above differ from
    the amount presented in the consolidated balance sheet by
    $5.0 billion due primarily to the exclusion of items such
    as legal liabilities, pension and postretirement benefit
    obligations, taxes due other than income tax, unrecognized tax
    benefits and related accrued interest, accrued severance and
    employee incentive compensation and other liabilities such as
    deferred gains and losses. Such items have been excluded from
    the table above as they represent accounting conventions or are
    not liabilities due under contractual obligations. 

172

Table of Contents   

The net funded status of the Company s pension and other
    postretirement liabilities included within other liabilities has
    been excluded from the amounts presented in the table above.
    Rather, the amounts presented represent the discretionary
    contributions of $175 million to be made by the Company to
    our pension plan in 2011 and the discretionary contributions of
    $120 million, based on the current year s expected
    gross benefit payments to participants, to be made by the
    Company to the postretirement benefit plans during 2011.
    Virtually all contributions to the pension and postretirement
    benefit plans are made by the insurance subsidiaries of the
    Holding Company with little impact on the Holding Company s
    cash flows. 

Excluded from the table above are unrecognized tax benefits and
    related accrued interest of $810 million and
    $221 million, respectively, for which the Company cannot
    reliably determine the timing of payment. Current income tax
    payable is also excluded from the table. 

See also    Off-Balance Sheet Arrangements.  

Separate account liabilities are excluded from the table above.
    Generally, the separate account owner, rather than the Company,
    bears the investment risk of these funds. The separate account
    assets are legally segregated and are not subject to the claims
    that arise out of any other business of the Company. Net
    deposits, net investment income and realized and unrealized
    capital gains and losses on the separate accounts are fully
    offset by corresponding amounts credited to contractholders
    whose liability is reflected with the separate account
    liabilities. Separate account liabilities are fully funded by
    cash flows from the separate account assets and are set equal to
    the estimated fair value of separate account assets.

The Company also enters into agreements to purchase goods and
    services in the normal course of business; however, these
    purchase obligations were not material to its consolidated
    results of operations or financial position at December 31,
    2010.

Additionally, the Company has agreements in place for services
    it conducts, generally at cost, between subsidiaries relating to
    insurance, reinsurance, loans and capitalization. Intercompany
    transactions have appropriately been eliminated in
    consolidation. Intercompany transactions among insurance
    subsidiaries and affiliates have been approved by the
    appropriate departments of insurance as required.

Support Agreements.   The Holding Company and
    several of its subsidiaries (each, an  Obligor ) are
    parties to various capital support commitments, guarantees and
    contingent reinsurance agreements with certain subsidiaries of
    the Holding Company and a corporation in which the Holding
    Company owns 50% of the equity. Under these arrangements, each
    Obligor, with respect to the applicable entity, has agreed to
    cause such entity to meet specified capital and surplus levels,
    has guaranteed certain contractual obligations or has agreed to
    provide, upon the occurrence of certain contingencies,
    reinsurance for such entity s insurance liabilities. We
    anticipate that in the event that these arrangements place
    demands upon the Company, there will be sufficient liquidity and
    capital to enable the Company to meet anticipated demands. See
       The Holding Company   Liquidity and
    Capital Uses   Support Agreements. 

Litigation.   Putative or certified class action
    litigation and other litigation, and claims and assessments
    against the Company, in addition to those discussed elsewhere
    herein and those otherwise provided for in the Company s
    consolidated financial statements, have arisen in the course of
    the Company s business, including, but not limited to, in
    connection with its activities as an insurer, mortgage lending
    bank, employer, investor, investment advisor and taxpayer.
    Further, state insurance regulatory authorities and other
    federal and state authorities regularly make inquiries and
    conduct investigations concerning the Company s compliance
    with applicable insurance and other laws and regulations.

It is not possible to predict or determine the ultimate outcome
    of all pending investigations and legal proceedings. In some of
    the matters referred to herein, very large
     and/or 
    indeterminate amounts, including punitive and treble damages,
    are sought. Although in light of these considerations, it is
    possible that an adverse outcome in certain cases could have a
    material adverse effect upon the Company s financial
    position, based on information currently known by the
    Company s management, in its opinion, the outcome of such
    pending investigations and legal proceedings are not likely to
    have such an effect. However, given the large
     and/or 
    indeterminate amounts sought in certain of these matters and the
    inherent unpredictability of litigation, it is possible that an
    adverse

173

Table of Contents   

outcome in certain matters could, from time to time, have a
    material adverse effect on the Company s consolidated net
    income or cash flows in particular quarterly or annual periods.

The
    Holding Company  

Capital   

Restrictions and Limitations on Bank Holding Companies and
    Financial Holding Companies.   The Holding Company
    and its insured depository institution subsidiary, MetLife Bank,
    are subject to risk-based and leverage capital guidelines issued
    by the federal banking regulatory agencies for banks and bank
    and financial holding companies. The federal banking regulatory
    agencies are required by law to take specific prompt corrective
    actions with respect to institutions that do not meet minimum
    capital standards. As of their most recently filed reports with
    the federal banking regulatory agencies, the Holding Company and
    MetLife Bank met the minimum capital standards as per federal
    banking regulatory agencies with all of MetLife Bank s
    risk-based and leverage capital ratios meeting the federal
    banking regulatory agencies  well capitalized 
    standards and all of the Holding Company s risk-based and
    leverage capital ratios meeting the  adequately
    capitalized  standards. In addition to requirements which
    may be imposed in connection with the implementation of
    Dodd-Frank, if endorsed and adopted in the U.S., Basel III
    will also lead to increased capital and liquidity requirements
    for bank holding companies, such as MetLife, Inc. See
       Industry Trends   Financial and
    Economic Environment  Regulatory Changes. 

The following table contains the RBC ratios and the regulatory
    requirements for MetLife, Inc., as a bank holding company, and
    MetLife Bank:

MetLife,
    Inc. 
    RBC Ratios   Bank Holding Company  

MetLife
    Bank 
    RBC Ratios   Bank  

Summary of Primary Sources and Uses of Liquidity and
    Capital.   For information regarding the primary
    sources and uses of Holding Company liquidity and capital, see
       The Company   Capital
      Summary of Primary Sources and Uses of Liquidity and
    Capital. 

Liquidity
    and Capital   

Liquidity and capital are managed to preserve stable, reliable
    and cost-effective sources of cash to meet all current and
    future financial obligations and are provided by a variety of
    sources, including a portfolio of liquid assets, a diversified
    mix of short- and long-term funding sources from the wholesale
    financial markets and the ability to borrow through credit and
    committed credit facilities. The Holding Company is an active
    participant in the global financial markets through which it
    obtains a significant amount of funding. These markets, which
    serve as cost-effective sources of funds, are critical
    components of the Holding Company s liquidity and capital
    management. Decisions to access these markets are based upon
    relative costs, prospective views of balance

174

Table of Contents   

sheet growth and a targeted liquidity profile and capital
    structure. A disruption in the financial markets could limit the
    Holding Company s access to liquidity.

The Holding Company s ability to maintain regular access to
    competitively priced wholesale funds is fostered by its current
    credit ratings from the major credit rating agencies. We view
    our capital ratios, credit quality, stable and diverse earnings
    streams, diversity of liquidity sources and our liquidity
    monitoring procedures as critical to retaining such credit
    ratings. See    The Company  
    Capital   Rating Agencies. 

Liquidity is monitored through the use of internal liquidity
    risk metrics, including the composition and level of the liquid
    asset portfolio, timing differences in short-term cash flow
    obligations, access to the financial markets for capital and
    debt transactions and exposure to contingent draws on the
    Holding Company s liquidity.

Liquidity
    and Capital Sources   

Dividends from Subsidiaries.   The Holding
    Company relies in part on dividends from its subsidiaries to
    meet its cash requirements. The Holding Company s insurance
    subsidiaries are subject to regulatory restrictions on the
    payment of dividends imposed by the regulators of their
    respective domiciles. The dividend limitation for
    U.S. insurance subsidiaries is generally based on the
    surplus to policyholders at the end of the immediately preceding
    calendar year and statutory net gain from operations for the
    immediately preceding calendar year. Statutory accounting
    practices, as prescribed by insurance regulators of various
    states in which the Company conducts business, differ in certain
    respects from accounting principles used in financial statements
    prepared in conformity with GAAP. The significant differences
    relate to the treatment of DAC, certain deferred income tax,
    required investment liabilities, statutory reserve calculation
    assumptions, goodwill and surplus notes.

The table below sets forth the dividends permitted to be paid by
    the respective insurance subsidiary without insurance regulatory
    approval and the respective dividends paid:

(1)  

Reflects dividend amounts that may be paid during 2011 without
    prior regulatory approval. However, because dividend tests may
    be based on dividends previously paid over rolling
     12-month 
    periods, if paid before a specified date during 2011, some or
    all of such dividends may require regulatory approval. 

(2)  

All amounts paid, including those requiring regulatory approval. 

(3)  

Reflects dividend amounts that could have been paid during the
    relevant year without prior regulatory approval. 

(4)  

Includes securities transferred to the Holding Company of
    $399 million. 

(5)  

Consists of shares of RGA stock distributed by MLIC to the
    Holding Company as an in-kind dividend of $1,318 million. 

(6)  

Reflects dividends permitted to be paid and the respective
    dividends paid since the Acquisition Date. See Note 2 to
    the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements. 

(7)  

Includes shares of an affiliate distributed to the Holding
    Company as an in-kind dividend of $475 million. 

175

Table of Contents   

(8)  

Includes shares of an affiliate distributed to the Holding
    Company as an in-kind dividend of $164 million. 

In addition to the amounts presented in the table above, for the
    years ended December 31, 2010, 2009 and 2008, cash
    dividends in the aggregate amount of $0, $215 million and
    $235 million, respectively, were paid to the Holding
    Company.

The dividend capacity of
     non-U.S. operations 
    is subject to similar restrictions established by the local
    regulators. The
     non-U.S. regulatory 
    regimes also commonly limit the dividend payments to the parent
    to a portion of the prior year s statutory income, as
    determined by the local accounting principles. The regulators of
    the
     non-U.S. operations, 
    including the Japan branch of American Life, may also limit or
    not permit profit repatriations or other transfers of funds to
    the U.S. if such transfers would be detrimental to the solvency
    or financial strength of the operations of the
     non-U.S. operations, 
    or for other reasons. Most of the
     non-U.S. subsidiaries 
    are second tier subsidiaries and are not directly owned by the
    Holding Company. The capital and rating considerations
    applicable to the first tier subsidiaries may also impact the
    dividend flow into the Holding Company.

The Company s management actively manages its target and
    excess capital levels and dividend flows on a pro-active basis
    and forecasts local capital positions as part of the financial
    planning cycle. The dividend capacity of certain U.S. and
     non-U.S. subsidiaries 
    is also subject to business targets in excess of the minimum
    capital necessary to maintain the desired rating or level of
    financial strength in the relevant market. Management of the
    Holding Company cannot provide assurances that the Holding
    Company s subsidiaries will have statutory earnings to
    support payment of dividends to the Holding Company in an amount
    sufficient to fund its cash requirements and pay cash dividends
    and that the applicable regulators will not disapprove any
    dividends that such subsidiaries must submit for approval. See
    Note 18 of the Notes to the Consolidated Financial
    Statements.

Liquid Assets.   An integral part of the Holding
    Company s liquidity management is the amount of liquid
    assets it holds. Liquid assets include cash, cash equivalents,
    short-term investments and publicly-traded securities,
    excluding: (i) cash collateral received under the
    Company s securities lending program that has been
    reinvested in cash, cash equivalents, short-term investments and
    publicly-traded securities; and (ii) cash collateral
    received from counterparties in connection with derivative
    instruments. At December 31, 2010 and 2009, the Holding
    Company had $2.8 billion and $3.8 billion,
    respectively, in liquid assets. In addition, the Holding Company
    has pledged collateral and has had collateral pledged to it, and
    may be required from time to time to pledge additional
    collateral or be entitled to have additional collateral pledged
    to it. At December 31, 2010 and 2009, the Holding Company
    had pledged $362 million and $289 million,
    respectively, of liquid assets under collateral support
    agreements.

Shelf Registration.   In November 2010, the
    Holding Company filed a shelf registration statement (the
     2010 Shelf Registration Statement ) with the
    U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission ( SEC ),
    which was automatically effective upon filing, in accordance
    with SEC rules. SEC rules also allow for pay-as-you-go fees and
    the ability to add securities by filing automatically effective
    amendments for companies, such as the Holding Company, which
    qualify as  Well-Known Seasoned Issuers.  The 2010
    Shelf Registration Statement registered an unlimited amount of
    debt and equity securities and replaces the shelf registration
    statement that the Holding Company filed in November 2007, which
    expired in the fourth quarter of 2010. The terms of any offering
    will be established at the time of the offering.

Global Funding Sources.   Liquidity is also
    provided by a variety of short-term instruments, including
    commercial paper. Capital is provided by a variety of
    instruments, including medium- and long-term debt, junior
    subordinated debt securities, collateral financing arrangements,
    capital securities and stockholders  equity. The diversity
    of the Holding Company s funding sources enhances funding
    flexibility, limits dependence on any one source of funds and
    generally lowers the cost of funds. Other sources of the Holding
    Company s liquidity include programs for short-and
    long-term borrowing, as needed.

We continuously monitor and adjust our liquidity and capital
    plans for the Holding Company and its subsidiaries in light of
    changing requirements and market conditions.

176

Table of Contents   

Long-term Debt.   The following table summarizes
    the outstanding long-term debt of the Holding Company at:

(1)  

Includes $165 million of affiliated senior notes associated
    with bonds held by ALICO. 

Short-term Debt.   MetLife, Inc. maintains a
    commercial paper program, proceeds of which can be used to
    finance the general liquidity needs of MetLife, Inc. and its
    subsidiaries. The Holding Company had no short-term debt
    outstanding at both December 31, 2010 and 2009. There was
    no short-term debt activity in 2010. During the years ended
    December 31, 2009 and 2008, the weighted average interest
    rate on short-term debt, comprised only of commercial paper, was
    1.25% and 2.5%, respectively. During the year ended
    December 31, 2009, the average daily balance on short-term
    debt was $5 million, and the average days outstanding was
    6 days.

Debt Issuances and Other Borrowings.   For
    information on debt issuances and other borrowings entered into
    by the Holding Company, see    The
    Company   Liquidity and Capital Sources  
    Debt Issuances and Other Borrowings. 

Senior Notes.   The following table summarizes
    the Holding Company s outstanding senior notes series by
    maturity date, excluding any premium or discount, at
    December 31, 2010:

(1)  

Represents one of two tranches comprising the Series C Debt
    Securities. 

(2)  

Represents one of two tranches comprising the Series E Debt
    Securities. 

177

Table of Contents   

Collateral Financing Arrangements.   For
    information on collateral financing arrangements entered into by
    the Holding Company, see    The
    Company   Liquidity and Capital Sources  
    Collateral Financing Arrangements. 

Credit and Committed Facilities.   At
    December 31, 2010, the Holding Company, along with MetLife
    Funding, maintained $4.0 billion in unsecured credit
    facilities, the proceeds of which are available to be used for
    general corporate purposes, to support the borrowers 
    commercial paper programs and for the issuance of letters of
    credit. At December 31, 2010, the Holding Company had
    outstanding $1.5 billion in letters of credit and no
    drawdowns against this facility. Remaining unused commitments
    were $2.5 billion at December 31, 2010.

The Holding Company maintains committed facilities with a
    capacity of $300 million. At December 31, 2010, the
    Holding Company had outstanding $300 million in letters of
    credit and no drawdowns against these facilities. There were no
    remaining unused commitments at December 31, 2010. In
    addition, the Holding Company is a party to committed facilities
    of certain of its subsidiaries, which aggregated
    $12.1 billion at December 31, 2010. The committed
    facilities are used as collateral for certain of the
    Company s affiliated reinsurance liabilities.

See Note 11 of the Notes to the Consolidated Financial
    Statements for further detail on these facilities.

Covenants.   Certain of the Holding
    Company s debt instruments, credit facilities and committed
    facilities contain various administrative, reporting, legal and
    financial covenants. The Holding Company believes it was in
    compliance with all covenants at December 31, 2010 and 2009.

Preferred Stock, Convertible Preferred Stock, Common Stock
    and Equity Units.    For information on preferred
    stock, convertible preferred stock, common stock and common
    equity units issued by the Holding Company, see
       The Company   Liquidity and Capital
    Sources   Preferred Stock, 
       Convertible Preferred Stock, 
       Common Stock,  and
       Equity Units,  respectively.

Liquidity
    and Capital Uses   

The primary uses of liquidity of the Holding Company include
    debt service, cash dividends on preferred, convertible preferred
    and common stock, capital contributions to subsidiaries, payment
    of general operating expenses and acquisitions. Based on our
    analysis and comparison of our current and future cash inflows
    from the dividends we receive from subsidiaries that are
    permitted to be paid without prior insurance regulatory
    approval, our asset portfolio and other cash flows and
    anticipated access to the capital markets, we believe there will
    be sufficient liquidity and capital to enable the Holding
    Company to make payments on debt, make cash dividend payments on
    its preferred, convertible preferred and common stock,
    contribute capital to its subsidiaries, pay all general
    operating expenses and meet its cash needs.

Acquisitions.   For information regarding the
    purchase price of the Acquisition, see    The
    Company   Liquidity and Capital Uses  
    Acquisitions. 

Affiliated Capital Transactions.   During the
    years ended December 31, 2010, 2009 and 2008, the Holding
    Company invested an aggregate of $699 million (excludes the
    Acquisition), $986 million and $2.6 billion,
    respectively, in various subsidiaries.

The Holding Company lends funds, as necessary, to its
    subsidiaries, some of which are regulated, to meet their capital
    requirements. Such loans are included in loans to subsidiaries
    and consisted of the following at:

178

Table of Contents   

Debt Repayments.   The Holding Company intends
    to either repay all or refinance in whole or in part the debt
    that is due in December 2011. See    The Holding
    Company   Liquidity and Capital Sources  
    Senior Notes. 

Support Agreements.   The Holding Company is
    party to various capital support commitments and guarantees with
    certain of its subsidiaries and a corporation in which it owns
    50% of the equity. Under these arrangements, the Holding Company
    has agreed to cause each such entity to meet specified capital
    and surplus levels or has guaranteed certain contractual
    obligations.

In November 2010, the Holding Company guaranteed the obligations
    of Exeter Reassurance Company, Ltd. ( Exeter ) in an
    aggregate amount up to $1.0 billion, under a reinsurance
    agreement with MetLife Europe Limited ( MEL ), under
    which Exeter reinsures the guaranteed living benefits and
    guaranteed death benefits associated with certain unit-linked
    annuity contracts issued by MEL.

In January 2010, the Holding Company guaranteed the obligations
    of its subsidiary, Missouri Reinsurance (Barbados) Inc.
    ( MoRe ), under a retrocession agreement with RGA
    Reinsurance (Barbados) Inc., pursuant to which MoRe retrocedes
    certain group term life insurance issued by MLIC.

In December 2009, the Holding Company, in connection with
    MetLife Reinsurance Company of Vermont ( MRV ) s
    reinsurance of certain universal life and term life insurance
    risks, committed to the Vermont Department of Banking,
    Insurance, Securities and Health Care Administration to take
    necessary action to cause the third protected cell of MRV to
    maintain total adjusted capital equal to or greater than 200% of
    such protected cell s authorized control level RBC, as
    defined in state insurance statutes. See    The
    Company   Liquidity and Capital Sources  
    Credit and Committed Facilities  and Note 11 of the
    Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements.

The Holding Company, in connection with MRV s reinsurance
    of certain universal life and term life insurance risks,
    committed to the Vermont Department of Banking, Insurance,
    Securities and Health Care Administration to take necessary
    action to cause each of the two initial protected cells of MRV
    to maintain total adjusted capital equal to or greater than 200%
    of such protected cell s authorized control level RBC,
    as defined in state insurance statutes. See
       The Company   Liquidity and Capital
    Sources   Credit and Committed Facilities  and
    Note 11 of the Notes to the Consolidated Financial
    Statements.

The Holding Company, in connection with the collateral financing
    arrangement associated with MRC s reinsurance of a portion
    of the liabilities associated with the closed block, committed
    to the South Carolina Department of Insurance to make capital
    contributions, if necessary, to MRC so that MRC may at all times
    maintain its total adjusted capital at a level of not less than
    200% of the company action level RBC, as defined in state
    insurance statutes as in effect on the date of determination or
    December 31, 2007, whichever calculation produces the
    greater capital requirement, or as otherwise required by the
    South Carolina Department of Insurance. See
       The Company   Liquidity and Capital
    Sources   Debt Issuances and Other Borrowings 
    and Note 12 of the Notes to the Consolidated Financial
    Statements.

The Holding Company, in connection with the collateral financing
    arrangement associated with MRSC s reinsurance of universal
    life secondary guarantees, committed to the South Carolina
    Department of Insurance to take necessary action to cause MRSC
    to maintain total adjusted capital equal to the greater of
    $250,000 or 100% of MRSC s authorized control
    level RBC, as defined in state insurance statutes. See
       The Company   Liquidity and Capital
    Sources   Debt Issuances and Other Borrowings 
    and Note 12 of the Notes to the Consolidated Financial
    Statements.

The Holding Company has net worth maintenance agreements with
    two of its insurance subsidiaries, MetLife Investors Insurance
    Company and First MetLife Investors Insurance Company. Under
    these agreements, as subsequently amended, the Holding Company
    agreed, without limitation as to the amount, to cause each of
    these subsidiaries to have a minimum capital and surplus of
    $10 million, total adjusted capital at a level not less
    than 150% of the company action level RBC, as defined by
    state insurance statutes, and liquidity necessary to enable it
    to meet its current obligations on a timely basis.

The Holding Company entered into a net worth maintenance
    agreement with Mitsui Sumitomo MetLife Insurance Company Limited
    ( MSI MetLife ), an investment in Japan of which the
    Holding Company owns 50% of the equity. Under the agreement, the
    Holding Company agreed, without limitation as to amount, to
    cause MSI

179

Table of Contents   

MetLife to have the amount of capital and surplus necessary for
    MSI MetLife to maintain a solvency ratio of at least 400%, as
    calculated in accordance with the Insurance Business Law of
    Japan, and to make such loans to MSI MetLife as may be necessary
    to ensure that MSI MetLife has sufficient cash or other liquid
    assets to meet its payment obligations as they fall due. As
    described in Note 2 of the Notes to the Consolidated
    Financial Statements, the Holding Company reached an agreement
    to sell its 50% interest in MSI MetLife to a third-party. Upon
    the close of such sale, the Holding Company s obligations
    under the net worth maintenance agreement will terminate.

The Holding Company has guaranteed the obligations of its
    subsidiary, Exeter, under a reinsurance agreement with MSI
    MetLife, under which Exeter reinsures variable annuity business
    written by MSI MetLife. This guarantee will remain in place
    until such time as the reinsurance agreement between Exeter and
    MSI MetLife is terminated, notwithstanding any prior disposition
    of the Holding Company s interest in MSI MetLife as
    described in Note 2 of the Notes to the Consolidated
    Financial Statements.

The Holding Company also guarantees the obligations of a number
    of its subsidiaries under credit facilities with third-party
    banks. See Note 11 of the Notes to the Consolidated
    Financial Statements.

Adoption
    of New Accounting Pronouncements  

See  Adoption of New Accounting Pronouncements  in
    Note 1 of the Notes to the Consolidated Financial
    Statements.

Future
    Adoption of New Accounting Pronouncements  

See  Future Adoption of New Accounting Pronouncements 
    in Note 1 of the Notes to the Consolidated Financial
    Statements.

Subsequent
    Events  

Dividends   

On February 18, 2011, the Holding Company announced
    dividends of $0.2500000 per share, for a total of
    $6 million, on its Series A preferred shares, and
    $0.4062500 per share, for a total of $24 million, on its
    Series B preferred shares, subject to the final
    confirmation that it has met the financial tests specified in
    the Series A and Series B preferred shares, which the
    Company anticipates will be made on or about March 7, 2011. Both
    dividends will be payable March 15, 2011 to shareholders of
    record as of February 28, 2011.

Credit
    Facility   

On February 1, 2011, the Holding Company entered into a
    committed facility with a third-party bank to provide letters of
    credit for the benefit of MoRe, a captive reinsurance
    subsidiary, to address its short-term solvency needs based on
    guidance from the regulator. This one-year facility provides for
    the issuance of letters of credit in amounts up to
    $350 million. Under the facility, a letter of credit for
    $250 million was issued on February 2, 2011 and
    increased to $295 million on February 23, 2011, which
    management believes satisfies MoRe s solvency requirements.

Item 7A.      

Quantitative
    and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk   

Risk
    Management  

The Company must effectively manage, measure and monitor the
    market risk associated with its assets and liabilities. It has
    developed an integrated process for managing risk, which it
    conducts through its Enterprise Risk Management Department,
    Asset/Liability Management Unit, Treasury Department and
    Investment Department along with the management of the business
    segments. The Company has established and implemented
    comprehensive policies and procedures at both the corporate and
    business segment level to minimize the effects of potential
    market volatility.

The Company regularly analyzes its exposure to interest rate,
    equity market price and foreign currency exchange rate risks. As
    a result of that analysis, the Company has determined that the
    estimated fair values of certain

180

Table of Contents   

assets and liabilities are materially exposed to changes in
    interest rates, foreign currency exchange rates and changes in
    the equity markets.

Enterprise Risk Management.   MetLife has
    established several financial and non-financial senior
    management committees as part of its risk management process.
    These committees manage capital and risk positions, approve ALM
    strategies and establish appropriate corporate business
    standards. Further enhancing its committee structure, during the
    second quarter of 2010, MetLife created an Enterprise Risk
    Committee made up of the following voting members: the Chief
    Financial Officer, the Chief Investment Officer, the President
    of U.S. Business, the President of International and the
    Chief Risk Officer. This committee is responsible for reviewing
    all material risks to the enterprise and deciding on actions if
    necessary, in the event risks exceed desirable targets, taking
    into consideration best practices to resolve or mitigate those
    risks.

MetLife also has a separate Enterprise Risk Management
    Department, which is responsible for risk management throughout
    MetLife and reports to MetLife s Chief Risk Officer. The
    Enterprise Risk Management Department s primary
    responsibilities consist of:

implementing a corporate risk framework, which outlines the
    Company s approach for managing risk on an enterprise-wide
    basis;

developing policies and procedures for managing, measuring,
    monitoring and controlling those risks identified in the
    corporate risk framework;

establishing appropriate corporate risk tolerance levels;

deploying capital on an economic capital basis; and

reporting on a periodic basis to the Finance and Risk Committee
    of the Company s Board of Directors; with respect to credit
    risk, to the Investment Committee of the Company s Board of
    Directors; and, reporting on various aspects of risk, to
    financial and non-financial senior management committees.

Asset/Liability Management.   The Company
    actively manages its assets using an approach that balances
    quality, diversification, asset/liability matching, liquidity,
    concentration and investment return. The goals of the investment
    process are to optimize, net of income tax, risk-adjusted
    investment income and risk-adjusted total return while ensuring
    that the assets and liabilities are reasonably managed on a cash
    flow and duration basis. The ALM process is the shared
    responsibility of the Financial Risk Management and
    Asset/Liability Management Unit, Enterprise Risk Management, the
    Portfolio Management Unit, and the senior members of the
    business segments and is governed by the ALM Committees. The ALM
    Committees  duties include reviewing and approving target
    portfolios, establishing investment guidelines and limits and
    providing oversight of the ALM process on a periodic basis. The
    directives of the ALM Committees are carried out and monitored
    through ALM Working Groups which are set up to manage by product
    type. In addition, an ALM Steering Committee oversees the
    activities of the underlying ALM Committees.

MetLife establishes target asset portfolios for each major
    insurance product, which represent the investment strategies
    used to profitably fund its liabilities within acceptable levels
    of risk. These strategies are monitored through regular review
    of portfolio metrics, such as effective duration, yield curve
    sensitivity, convexity, liquidity, asset sector concentration
    and credit quality by the ALM Working Groups.

Market
    Risk Exposures  

The Company has exposure to market risk through its insurance
    operations and investment activities. For purposes of this
    disclosure,  market risk  is defined as the risk of
    loss resulting from changes in interest rates, foreign currency
    exchange rates and equity market.

Interest Rates.   The Company s exposure to
    interest rate changes results most significantly from its
    holdings of fixed maturity securities, as well as its interest
    rate sensitive liabilities. The fixed maturity securities
    include U.S. and foreign government bonds, securities
    issued by government agencies, corporate bonds and
    mortgage-backed securities, all of which are mainly exposed to
    changes in medium- and long-term interest rates. The interest
    rate sensitive liabilities for purposes of this disclosure
    include debt, policyholder account balances related to certain
    investment type contracts, and net embedded derivatives on
    variable annuities with guaranteed minimum benefits

181

Table of Contents   

which have the same type of interest rate exposure (medium- and
    long-term interest rates) as fixed maturity securities. The
    Company employs product design, pricing and ALM strategies to
    reduce the adverse effects of interest rate movements. Product
    design and pricing strategies include the use of surrender
    charges or restrictions on withdrawals in some products and the
    ability to reset credited rates for certain products. ALM
    strategies include the use of derivatives and duration mismatch
    limits. See  Risk Factors   Changes in Market
    Interest Rates May Significantly Affect Our Profitability. 

Foreign Currency Exchange Rates.   The
    Company s exposure to fluctuations in foreign currency
    exchange rates against the U.S. dollar results from its
    holdings in
     non-U.S. dollar 
    denominated fixed maturity and equity securities, mortgage
    loans, and certain liabilities, as well as through its
    investments in foreign subsidiaries. The principal currencies
    that create foreign currency exchange rate risk in the
    Company s investment portfolios are the Euro, the Japanese
    yen and the Canadian dollar. The principal currencies that
    create foreign currency risk in the Company s liabilities
    are the British pound, the Euro and the Swiss franc.
    Selectively, the Company uses U.S. dollar assets to support
    certain long duration foreign currency liabilities. Through its
    investments in foreign subsidiaries and joint ventures, the
    Company is primarily exposed to the Mexican peso, the Japanese
    yen, the South Korean won, the Canadian dollar, the British
    pound, the Chilean peso, the Australian dollar, the Argentine
    peso, the Polish zloty, the Euro and the Hong Kong dollar. In
    addition to hedging with foreign currency swaps, forwards and
    options, local surplus in some countries is held entirely or in
    part in U.S. dollar assets which further minimizes exposure
    to foreign currency exchange rate fluctuation risk. The Company
    has matched much of its foreign currency liabilities in its
    foreign subsidiaries with their respective foreign currency
    assets, thereby reducing its risk to foreign currency exchange
    rate fluctuation. See  Risk Factors  
    Fluctuations in Foreign Currency Exchange Rates Could Negatively
    Affect Our Profitability. 

Equity Market.   The Company has exposure to
    equity market risk through certain liabilities that involve
    long-term guarantees on equity performance such as net embedded
    derivatives on variable annuities with guaranteed minimum
    benefits, certain policyholder account balances along with
    investments in equity securities. We manage this risk on an
    integrated basis with other risks through our ALM strategies
    including the dynamic hedging of certain variable annuity
    guarantee benefits. The Company also manages equity market risk
    exposure in its investment portfolio through the use of
    derivatives. Equity exposures associated with other limited
    partnership interests are excluded from this section as they are
    not considered financial instruments under GAAP.

Management
    of Market Risk Exposures  

The Company uses a variety of strategies to manage interest
    rate, foreign currency exchange rate and equity market risk,
    including the use of derivative instruments.

Interest Rate Risk Management.   To manage
    interest rate risk, the Company analyzes interest rate risk
    using various models, including multi-scenario cash flow
    projection models that forecast cash flows of the liabilities
    and their supporting investments, including derivative
    instruments. These projections involve evaluating the potential
    gain or loss on most of the Company s in-force business
    under various increasing and decreasing interest rate
    environments. The New York State Insurance Department
    regulations require that MetLife perform some of these analyses
    annually as part of MetLife s review of the sufficiency of
    its regulatory reserves. For several of its legal entities, the
    Company maintains segmented operating and surplus asset
    portfolios for the purpose of ALM and the allocation of
    investment income to product lines. For each segment, invested
    assets greater than or equal to the GAAP liabilities less the
    DAC asset and any non-invested assets allocated to the segment
    are maintained, with any excess swept to the surplus segment.
    The business segments may reflect differences in legal entity,
    statutory line of business and any product market characteristic
    which may drive a distinct investment strategy with respect to
    duration, liquidity or credit quality of the invested assets.
    Certain smaller entities make use of unsegmented general
    accounts for which the investment strategy reflects the
    aggregate characteristics of liabilities in those entities. The
    Company measures relative sensitivities of the value of its
    assets and liabilities to changes in key assumptions utilizing
    Company models. These models reflect specific product
    characteristics and include assumptions based on current and
    anticipated experience regarding lapse, mortality and interest
    crediting rates. In addition, these models include asset cash
    flow projections reflecting interest payments, sinking fund
    payments, principal payments, bond calls, mortgage prepayments
    and defaults.

182

Table of Contents   

Common industry metrics, such as duration and convexity, are
    also used to measure the relative sensitivity of assets and
    liability values to changes in interest rates. In computing the
    duration of liabilities, consideration is given to all
    policyholder guarantees and to how the Company intends to set
    indeterminate policy elements such as interest credits or
    dividends. Each asset portfolio has a duration target based on
    the liability duration and the investment objectives of that
    portfolio. Where a liability cash flow may exceed the maturity
    of available assets, as is the case with certain retirement and
    non-medical health products, the Company may support such
    liabilities with equity investments, derivatives or curve
    mismatch strategies.

Foreign Currency Exchange Rate Risk
    Management.   Foreign currency exchange rate risk
    is assumed primarily in three ways: investments in foreign
    subsidiaries, purchases of foreign currency denominated
    investments in the investment portfolio and the sale of certain
    insurance products.

The Company s Treasury Department is responsible for
    managing the exposure to investments in foreign subsidiaries.
    Limits to exposures are established and monitored by the
    Treasury Department and managed by the Investment Department.

The Investment Department is responsible for managing the
    exposure to foreign currency investments. Exposure limits to
    unhedged foreign currency investments are incorporated into the
    standing authorizations granted to management by the Board of
    Directors and are reported to the Board of Directors on a
    periodic basis.

The lines of business are responsible for establishing limits
    and managing any foreign exchange rate exposure caused by the
    sale or issuance of insurance products.

MetLife uses foreign currency swaps and forwards to hedge its
    foreign currency denominated fixed income investments, its
    equity exposure in subsidiaries and its foreign currency
    exposures caused by the sale of insurance products.

Equity Market Risk Management.   Equity market
    risk exposure through the issuance of variable annuities is
    managed by the Company s Asset/Liability Management Unit in
    partnership with the Investment Department. Equity market risk
    is realized through its investment in equity securities and is
    managed by its Investment Department. MetLife uses derivatives
    to hedge its equity exposure both in certain liability
    guarantees such as variable annuities with guaranteed minimum
    benefit and equity securities. These derivatives include
    exchange-traded equity futures, equity index options contracts
    and equity variance swaps. The Company also employs reinsurance
    to manage these exposures.

Hedging Activities.   MetLife uses derivative
    contracts primarily to hedge a wide range of risks including
    interest rate risk, foreign currency risk, and equity risk.
    Derivative hedges are designed to reduce risk on an economic
    basis while considering their impact on accounting results and
    GAAP and Statutory capital. The construction of the
    Company s derivative hedge programs vary depending on the
    type of risk being hedged. Some hedge programs are asset or
    liability specific while others are portfolio hedges that reduce
    risk related to a group of liabilities or assets. The
    Company s use of derivatives by major hedge programs is as
    follows:

Risks Related to Living Guarantee Benefits   The
    Company uses a wide range of derivative contracts to hedge the
    risk associated with variable annuity living guarantee benefits.
    These hedges include equity and interest rate futures, interest
    rate swaps, currency futures/forwards, equity indexed options
    and interest rate option contracts and equity variance swaps.

Minimum Interest Rate Guarantees   For certain Company
    liability contracts, the Company provides the contractholder a
    guaranteed minimum interest rate. These contracts include
    certain fixed annuities and other insurance liabilities. The
    Company purchases interest rate floors to reduce risk associated
    with these liability guarantees.

Reinvestment Risk in Long Duration Liability
    Contracts   Derivatives are used to hedge interest
    rate risk related to certain long duration liability contracts,
    such as deferred annuities. Hedges include zero coupon interest
    rate swaps and swaptions.

183

Table of Contents   

Foreign Currency Risk   The Company uses currency
    swaps and forwards to hedge foreign currency risk. These hedges
    primarily swap foreign currency denominated bonds, investments
    in foreign subsidiaries or equity exposures to U.S. dollars.

General ALM Hedging Strategies   In the ordinary
    course of managing the Company s asset/liability risks, the
    Company uses interest rate futures, interest rate swaps,
    interest rate caps, interest rate floors and inflation swaps.
    These hedges are designed to reduce interest rate risk or
    inflation risk related to the existing assets or liabilities or
    related to expected future cash flows.

Risk
    Measurement: Sensitivity Analysis  

The Company measures market risk related to its market sensitive
    assets and liabilities based on changes in interest rates,
    equity prices and foreign currency exchange rates utilizing a
    sensitivity analysis. This analysis estimates the potential
    changes in estimated fair value based on a hypothetical 10%
    change (increase or decrease) in interest rates, equity market
    prices and foreign currency exchange rates. The Company believes
    that a 10% change (increase or decrease) in these market rates
    and prices is reasonably possible in the near-term. In
    performing the analysis summarized below, the Company used
    market rates at December 31, 2010. The sensitivity analysis
    separately calculates each of the Company s market risk
    exposures (interest rate, equity market and foreign currency
    exchange rate) relating to its trading and non-trading assets
    and liabilities. The Company modeled the impact of changes in
    market rates and prices on the estimated fair values of its
    market sensitive assets and liabilities as follows:

the net present values of its interest rate sensitive exposures
    resulting from a 10% change (increase or decrease) in interest
    rates;

the U.S. dollar equivalent estimated fair values of the
    Company s foreign currency exposures due to a 10% change
    (increase or decrease) in foreign currency exchange
    rates; and

the estimated fair value of its equity positions due to a 10%
    change (increase or decrease) in equity market prices.

The sensitivity analysis is an estimate and should not be viewed
    as predictive of the Company s future financial
    performance. The Company cannot ensure that its actual losses in
    any particular period will not exceed the amounts indicated in
    the table below. Limitations related to this sensitivity
    analysis include:

the market risk information is limited by the assumptions and
    parameters established in creating the related sensitivity
    analysis, including the impact of prepayment rates on mortgages;

for the derivatives that qualify as hedges, the impact on
    reported earnings may be materially different from the change in
    market values;

the analysis excludes other significant real estate holdings and
    liabilities pursuant to insurance contracts; and

the model assumes that the composition of assets and liabilities
    remains unchanged throughout the period.

Accordingly, the Company uses such models as tools and not as
    substitutes for the experience and judgment of its management.
    Based on its analysis of the impact of a 10% change (increase or
    decrease) in market rates and prices, MetLife has determined
    that such a change could have a material adverse effect on the
    estimated fair value of certain assets and liabilities from
    interest rate, foreign currency exchange rate and equity
    exposures.

The table below illustrates the potential loss in estimated fair
    value for each market risk exposure of the Company s market
    sensitive assets and liabilities at December 31, 2010:

184

Table of Contents   

Sensitivity Analysis: Interest Rates.  The table below
    provides additional detail regarding the potential loss in fair
    value of the Company s trading and non-trading interest
    sensitive financial instruments at December 31, 2010 by
    type of asset or liability:

185

Table of Contents   

(1)  

Represents only those investments accounted for using the cost
    method. 

(2)  

Embedded derivatives are recognized in the consolidated balance
    sheet in the same caption as the host contract. 

(3)  

Separate account assets and liabilities which are interest rate
    sensitive are not included herein as any interest rate risk is
    borne by the holder of the separate account. 

This quantitative measure of risk has increased by
    $1,325 million, or 33%, to $5,382 million at
    December 31, 2010 from $4,057 million at
    December 31, 2009. Excluding the Acquisition which
    increased risk by $647 million, the quantitative measure of
    risk increased by $678 million or 17% at December 31,
    2010 from December 31, 2009. The increase in risk is due to
    a change in the net assets and liabilities bases of
    $641 million. In addition, an increase of $954 million
    was due to the use of derivatives employed by the Company
    ($445 million), an increase in the duration of the
    investment portfolio ($389 million), and an increase in
    premiums, reinsurance and other receivables ($120 million).
    This increase in risk was partially offset by a decrease in
    interest rates across the long end of the Swaps and
    U.S. Treasury curves resulting in a decrease of
    $424 million. Additionally, net embedded derivatives within
    liability host contracts increased by $520 million,
    partially due to a change made in the second quarter of 2010
    related to how the Company estimates the spread over the swap
    curve for purposes of determining the discount rate used to
    value those derivatives, which caused a corresponding decrease
    in risk. The remainder of the fluctuation is attributable to
    numerous immaterial items.

186

Table of Contents   

Sensitivity Analysis: Foreign Currency Exchange Rates .
    The table below provides additional detail regarding the
    potential loss in estimated fair value of the Company s
    portfolio due to a 10% change in foreign currency exchange rates
    at December 31, 2010 by type of asset or liability:

187

Table of Contents   

(1)  

Estimated fair value presented in the table above represents the
    estimated fair value of all financial instruments within this
    financial statement caption not necessarily those solely subject
    to foreign exchange risk. 

(2)  

Embedded derivatives are recognized in the consolidated balance
    sheet in the same caption as the host contract. 

Foreign currency exchange rate risk increased by
    $3,124 million, to $4,015 million at December 31,
    2010 from $891 million at December 31, 2009. Excluding
    the Acquisition which increased risk by $2,646 million, the
    foreign currency exchange risk has increased by
    $478 million or 54% at December 31, 2010 from
    December 31, 2009. This change was due to an increase in
    exchange rate risk relating to fixed maturity securities of
    $722 million due to higher exposures primarily within the
    British pound and the Euro and to the sale of the pension
    closeout business in the U.K. Additionally, a decrease in the
    foreign exposure related to long-term debt and PABs contributed
    $66 million and $41 million, respectively, to the
    increase. This was partially offset by an increase in the
    foreign exposure related to net embedded derivatives within
    liability host contracts and the use of derivatives employed by
    the Company of $315 million and $101 million,
    respectively. The remainder of the fluctuation is attributable
    to numerous immaterial items.

188

Table of Contents   

Sensitivity Analysis: Equity Market
    Prices.   The table below provides additional
    detail regarding the potential loss in estimated fair value of
    the Company s portfolio due to a 10% change in equity at
    December 31, 2010 by type of asset or liability:

(1)  

Estimated fair value presented in the table above represents the
    estimated fair value of all financial instruments within this
    financial statement caption not necessarily those solely subject
    to equity market risk. 

(2)  

Embedded derivatives are recognized in the consolidated balance
    sheet in the same caption as the host contract. 

189

Table of Contents   

(3)  

During the fourth quarter of 2010, the analysis of the impact of
    a 10% change (increase or decrease) in equity market rates
    determined that due to the inclusion of ALICO, a decrease of 10%
    had the most adverse effect on our equity risk while the prior
    year end s analysis of equity market rates shows an
    increase of 10% had the most adverse effect. 

Equity price risk decreased by $204 million to
    $14 million at December 31, 2010 from
    $218 million at December 31, 2009. Excluding the
    Acquisition which shifted the impact of a 10% change to a
    decrease in the equity market rates, the equity price risk has
    decreased by $191 million at December 31, 2010 from
    December 31, 2009. This decrease is primarily due to a
    change of $210 million attributed to the use of derivatives
    employed by the Company to hedge its equity exposures.
    Additionally, an increase in the net exposures related to net
    embedded derivatives within liability host contracts of
    $42 million contributed to the decrease. This was partially
    offset by a decrease of $60 million in equity securities.
    The remainder of the fluctuation is attributable to numerous
    insignificant items.

190

Table of Contents   

Item 8.      

Financial
    Statements and Supplementary Data   

Index to
    Consolidated Financial Statements and Schedules  

191

Table of Contents   

Report of
    Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm  

To the Board of Directors and Stockholders of

MetLife, Inc.:

We have audited the accompanying consolidated balance sheets of
    MetLife, Inc. and subsidiaries (the  Company ) as of
    December 31, 2010 and 2009, and the related consolidated
    statements of operations, equity, and cash flows for each of the
    three years in the period ended December 31, 2010. Our
    audits also included the financial statement schedules listed in
    the Index to Consolidated Financial Statements and Schedules.
    These consolidated financial statements and financial statement
    schedules are the responsibility of the Company s
    management. Our responsibility is to express an opinion on the
    consolidated financial statements and financial statement
    schedules based on our audits.

We conducted our audits in accordance with the standards of the
    Public Company Accounting Oversight Board (United States). Those
    standards require that we plan and perform the audit to obtain
    reasonable assurance about whether the consolidated financial
    statements are free of material misstatement. An audit includes
    examining, on a test basis, evidence supporting the amounts and
    disclosures in the consolidated financial statements. An audit
    also includes assessing the accounting principles used and
    significant estimates made by management, as well as evaluating
    the overall financial statement presentation. We believe that
    our audits provide a reasonable basis for our opinion.

In our opinion, such consolidated financial statements present
    fairly, in all material respects, the financial position of
    MetLife, Inc. and subsidiaries as of December 31, 2010 and
    2009, and the results of their operations and their cash flows
    for each of the three years in the period ended
    December 31, 2010, in conformity with accounting principles
    generally accepted in the United States of America. Also, in our
    opinion, such financial statement schedules, when considered in
    relation to the basic consolidated financial statements taken as
    a whole, present fairly, in all material respects, the
    information set forth therein.

As discussed in Note 1, the Company changed its method of
    accounting for the recognition and presentation of
     other-than-temporary 
    impairment losses for certain investments as required by
    accounting guidance adopted on April 1, 2009, and changed
    its method of accounting for certain assets and liabilities to a
    fair value measurement approach as required by accounting
    guidance adopted on January 1, 2008.

We have also audited, in accordance with the standards of the
    Public Company Accounting Oversight Board (United States), the
    Company s internal control over financial reporting as of
    December 31, 2010, based on the criteria established in
     Internal Control   Integrated Framework  issued
    by the Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of the Treadway
    Commission, and our report, dated February 24, 2011, expressed
    an unqualified opinion on the Company s internal control
    over financial reporting.

/s/   DELOITTE  
    TOUCHE LLP 

DELOITTE  
    TOUCHE LLP

New York, New York

February 24, 2011

F-1

Table of Contents   

MetLife,
    Inc. 
     
       Consolidated Balance Sheets 
     December 31, 2010 and 2009 
     
     (In millions, except share and per share
    data)  

See accompanying notes to the consolidated financial
    statements. 

F-2

Table of Contents   

MetLife,
    Inc. 
     
       Consolidated Statements of
    Operations 
     For the Years Ended December 31, 2010, 2009 and 2008 
       
    (In millions, except per share data)  

See accompanying notes to the consolidated financial
    statements. 

F-3

Table of Contents   

MetLife,
    Inc. 
     
       Consolidated Statements of
    Equity 
      For the Year Ended December 31,
    2010 
     
    (In millions)  

(1)  

Net income (loss) attributable to noncontrolling interests
    excludes gains (losses) of redeemable noncontrolling interests
    in partially owned consolidated subsidiaries of
    ($2) million. 

See accompanying notes to the consolidated financial
    statements. 

F-4

Table of Contents   

MetLife,
    Inc. 
     
     Consolidated Statements of Equity  
    (Continued) 
     For the Year Ended December 31, 2009 
     
    (In millions)  

See accompanying notes to the consolidated financial
    statements. 

F-5

Table of Contents   

MetLife,
    Inc. 
     
    Consolidated Statements of Equity   (Continued) 
    For the Year Ended December 31, 2008 
     
    (In millions)  

See accompanying notes to the consolidated financial
    statements. 

F-6

Table of Contents   

MetLife,
    Inc. 
       
     Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows 
     For the Years Ended December 31, 2010, 2009 and 2008 
     
    (In millions)  

See accompanying notes to the consolidated financial
    statements. 

F-7

Table of Contents   

MetLife,
    Inc. 
     
     Consolidated Statements of Cash
    Flows   (Continued) 
     For the Years Ended December 31, 2010,
    2009 and 2008 
     
    (In millions)  

See accompanying notes to the consolidated financial
    statements. 

F-8

Table of Contents   

MetLife,
    Inc. 

Notes
    to the Consolidated Financial Statements   

1.    

Business,
    Basis of Presentation and Summary of Significant Accounting
    Policies  

Business   

MetLife  or the  Company  refers to
    MetLife, Inc., a Delaware corporation incorporated in 1999 (the
     Holding Company ), its subsidiaries and affiliates.
    MetLife is a leading global provider of insurance, annuities and
    employee benefit programs throughout the United States, Japan,
    Latin America, Asia Pacific and Europe and the Middle East.
    Through its subsidiaries and affiliates, MetLife offers life
    insurance, annuities, auto and homeowners insurance, mortgage
    and deposit products and other financial services to
    individuals, as well as group insurance and
    retirement   savings products and services to
    corporations and other institutions.

Basis
    of Presentation   

The accompanying consolidated financial statements include the
    accounts of the Holding Company and its subsidiaries, as well as
    partnerships and joint ventures in which the Company has
    control, and variable interest entities ( VIEs ) for
    which the Company is the primary beneficiary. See
       Adoption of New Accounting
    Pronouncements.  Closed block assets, liabilities, revenues
    and expenses are combined on a
     line-by-line 
    basis with the assets, liabilities, revenues and expenses
    outside the closed block based on the nature of the particular
    item. See Note 10. Intercompany accounts and transactions
    have been eliminated.

On November 1, 2010 (the  Acquisition Date ),
    MetLife, Inc. completed the acquisition of American Life
    Insurance Company ( American Life ) from ALICO
    Holdings LLC ( ALICO Holdings ), a subsidiary of
    American International Group, Inc. ( AIG ), and
    Delaware American Life Insurance Company ( DelAm )
    from AIG, (American Life, together with DelAm, collectively,
     ALICO ) (the  Acquisition ) for a total
    purchase price of $16.4 billion. The Acquisition has been
    accounted for using the acquisition method of accounting, which
    requires, among other things, that the consideration transferred
    be measured at fair value at the Acquisition Date and that most
    assets acquired and liabilities assumed be recognized at their
    estimated fair values as of the Acquisition Date. In addition,
    acquisition-related transaction costs are expensed as incurred.
    Any excess of the purchase price consideration over the assigned
    values of the net assets acquired is recorded as goodwill.
    ALICO s fiscal year-end is November 30. Accordingly,
    the Company s consolidated financial statements reflect the
    assets and liabilities of ALICO as of November 30, 2010 and
    the operating results of ALICO from the Acquisition Date through
    November 30, 2010. See Note 2.

Certain amounts in the prior years  consolidated financial
    statements have been reclassified to conform with the 2010
    presentation. Such reclassifications include:

Reclassification from other net investment gains (losses) of
    ($4,866) million and $3,910 million to net derivative
    gains (losses) in the consolidated statements of operations for
    the years ended December 31, 2009 and 2008, respectively;

Reclassification from net change in other invested assets of
    $3,292 million and $8,168 million to cash received in
    connection with freestanding derivatives and
    ($5,393) million and ($6,454) million to cash paid in
    connection with freestanding derivatives, all within cash flows
    from investing activities, in the consolidated statements of
    cash flows for the years ended December 31, 2009 and 2008,
    respectively; and

Realignment that affected assets, liabilities and results of
    operations on a segment basis with no impact to the consolidated
    results. See Note 22.

See Note 23 for reclassifications related to discontinued
    operations.

F-9

Table of Contents   

MetLife,
    Inc. 

Notes to
    the Consolidated Financial
    Statements   (Continued)  

Summary
    of Significant Accounting Policies and Critical Accounting
    Estimates   

The preparation of financial statements in conformity with
    accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of
    America ( GAAP ) requires management to adopt
    accounting policies and make estimates and assumptions that
    affect amounts reported in the consolidated financial statements.

A description of critical estimates is incorporated within the
    discussion of the related accounting policies which follows. In
    applying these policies, management makes subjective and complex
    judgments that frequently require estimates about matters that
    are inherently uncertain. Many of these policies, estimates and
    related judgments are common in the insurance and financial
    services industries; others are specific to the Company s
    businesses and operations. Actual results could differ from
    these estimates.

Fair
    Value  

As described below, certain assets and liabilities are measured
    at estimated fair value on the Company s consolidated
    balance sheets. In addition, the notes to these consolidated
    financial statements include further disclosures of estimated
    fair values. The Company defines fair value as the price that
    would be received to sell an asset or paid to transfer a
    liability (an exit price) in the principal or most advantageous
    market for the asset or liability in an orderly transaction
    between market participants on the measurement date. In many
    cases, the exit price and the transaction (or entry) price will
    be the same at initial recognition. However, in certain cases,
    the transaction price may not represent fair value. The fair
    value of a liability is based on the amount that would be paid
    to transfer a liability to a third party with the same credit
    standing. It requires that fair value be a market-based
    measurement in which the fair value is determined based on a
    hypothetical transaction at the measurement date, considered
    from the perspective of a market participant. When quoted prices
    are not used to determine fair value of an asset, the Company
    considers three broad valuation techniques: (i) the market
    approach, (ii) the income approach, and (iii) the cost
    approach. The Company determines the most appropriate valuation
    technique to use, given what is being measured and the
    availability of sufficient inputs. The Company prioritizes the
    inputs to fair valuation techniques and allows for the use of
    unobservable inputs to the extent that observable inputs are not
    available. The Company categorizes its assets and liabilities
    measured at estimated fair value into a three-level hierarchy,
    based on the priority of the inputs to the respective valuation
    technique. The fair value hierarchy gives the highest priority
    to quoted prices in active markets for identical assets or
    liabilities (Level 1) and the lowest priority to
    unobservable inputs (Level 3). An asset or liability s
    classification within the fair value hierarchy is based on the
    lowest level of input to its valuation. The input levels are as
    follows:

Level 1 

Unadjusted quoted prices in active markets for identical assets
    or liabilities. The Company defines active markets based on
    average trading volume for equity securities. The size of the
    bid/ask spread is used as an indicator of market activity for
    fixed maturity securities.

Level 2 

Quoted prices in markets that are not active or inputs that are
    observable either directly or indirectly. Level 2 inputs
    include quoted prices for similar assets or liabilities other
    than quoted prices in Level 1; quoted prices in markets
    that are not active; or other significant inputs that are
    observable or can be derived principally from or corroborated by
    observable market data for substantially the full term of the
    assets or liabilities.

Level 3 

Unobservable inputs that are supported by little or no market
    activity and are significant to the estimated fair value of the
    assets or liabilities. Unobservable inputs reflect the reporting
    entity s own assumptions about the assumptions that market
    participants would use in pricing the asset or liability.
    Level 3 assets and liabilities include financial
    instruments whose values are determined using pricing models,
    discounted cash flow methodologies, or similar techniques, as
    well as instruments for which the determination of estimated
    fair value requires significant management judgment or
    estimation.

Prior to January 1, 2009, the measurement and disclosures
    of fair value based on exit price excluded certain items such as
    nonfinancial assets and nonfinancial liabilities initially
    measured at estimated fair value in a business

F-10

Table of Contents   

MetLife,
    Inc. 

Notes to
    the Consolidated Financial
    Statements   (Continued)  

combination, reporting units measured at estimated fair value in
    the first step of a goodwill impairment test and
    indefinite-lived intangible assets measured at estimated fair
    value for impairment assessment.

In addition, the Company elected the fair value option
    ( FVO ) for certain of its financial instruments to
    better match measurement of assets and liabilities in the
    consolidated statements of operations.

Investments  

The accounting policies for the Company s principal
    investments are as follows:

Fixed Maturity and Equity Securities.   The
    Company s fixed maturity and equity securities are
    classified as
     available-for-sale 
    and are reported at their estimated fair value.

Unrealized investment gains and losses on these securities are
    recorded as a separate component of other comprehensive income
    (loss), net of policyholder-related amounts and deferred income
    taxes. All security transactions are recorded on a trade date
    basis. Investment gains and losses on sales of securities are
    determined on a specific identification basis.

Interest income on fixed maturity securities is recorded when
    earned using an effective yield method giving effect to
    amortization of premiums and accretion of discounts. Dividends
    on equity securities are recorded when declared. These dividends
    and interest income are recorded in net investment income.

Included within fixed maturity securities are loan-backed
    securities including mortgage-backed and asset-backed securities
    ( ABS ). Amortization of the premium or discount from
    the purchase of these securities considers the estimated timing
    and amount of prepayments of the underlying loans. Actual
    prepayment experience is periodically reviewed and effective
    yields are recalculated when differences arise between the
    prepayments originally anticipated and the actual prepayments
    received and currently anticipated. Prepayment assumptions for
    single class and multi-class mortgage-backed and ABS are
    estimated by management using inputs obtained from third-party
    specialists, including broker-dealers, and based on
    management s knowledge of the current market. For
    credit-sensitive mortgage-backed and ABS and certain
    prepayment-sensitive securities, the effective yield is
    recalculated on a prospective basis. For all other
    mortgage-backed and ABS, the effective yield is recalculated on
    a retrospective basis.

The Company periodically evaluates fixed maturity and equity
    securities for impairment. The assessment of whether impairments
    have occurred is based on management s
     case-by-case 
    evaluation of the underlying reasons for the decline in
    estimated fair value. The Company s review of its fixed
    maturity and equity securities for impairments includes an
    analysis of the total gross unrealized losses by three
    categories of severity
     and/or  age
    of the gross unrealized loss, as summarized in Note 3
       Aging of Gross Unrealized Loss and OTTI Loss
    for Fixed Maturity and Equity Securities
     Available-for-Sale.  
    An extended and severe unrealized loss position on a fixed
    maturity security may not have any impact on the ability of the
    issuer to service all scheduled interest and principal payments
    and the Company s evaluation of recoverability of all
    contractual cash flows or the ability to recover an amount at
    least equal to its amortized cost based on the present value of
    the expected future cash flows to be collected. In contrast, for
    certain equity securities, greater weight and consideration are
    given by the Company to a decline in market value and the
    likelihood such market value decline will recover.

Additionally, management considers a wide range of factors about
    the security issuer and uses its best judgment in evaluating the
    cause of the decline in the estimated fair value of the security
    and in assessing the prospects for near-term recovery. Inherent
    in management s evaluation of the security are assumptions
    and estimates about the operations of the issuer and its future
    earnings potential. Considerations used by the Company in the
    impairment evaluation process include, but are not limited to:
    (i) the length of time and the extent to which the
    estimated fair value has been below cost or amortized cost;
    (ii) the potential for impairments of securities when the
    issuer is experiencing significant financial difficulties;
    (iii) the

F-11

Table of Contents   

MetLife,
    Inc. 

Notes to
    the Consolidated Financial
    Statements   (Continued)  

potential for impairments in an entire industry sector or
     sub-sector; 
    (iv) the potential for impairments in certain economically
    depressed geographic locations; (v) the potential for
    impairments of securities where the issuer, series of issuers or
    industry has suffered a catastrophic type of loss or has
    exhausted natural resources; (vi) with respect to fixed
    maturity securities, whether the Company has the intent to sell
    or will more likely than not be required to sell a particular
    security before the decline in estimated fair value below cost
    or amortized cost recovers; (vii) with respect to equity
    securities, whether the Company s ability and intent to
    hold the security for a period of time sufficient to allow for
    the recovery of its estimated fair value to an amount equal to
    or greater than cost; (viii) unfavorable changes in
    forecasted cash flows on mortgage-backed and ABS; and
    (ix) other subjective factors, including concentrations and
    information obtained from regulators and rating agencies.

Effective April 1, 2009, the Company prospectively adopted
    guidance on the recognition and presentation of
     other-than-temporary 
    impairment ( OTTI ) losses as described in
       Adoption of New Accounting
    Pronouncements   Financial Instruments.  The
    guidance requires that an OTTI be recognized in earnings for a
    fixed maturity security in an unrealized loss position when it
    is anticipated that the amortized cost will not be recovered. In
    such situations, the OTTI recognized in earnings is the entire
    difference between the fixed maturity security s amortized
    cost and its estimated fair value only when either: (i) the
    Company has the intent to sell the fixed maturity security; or
    (ii) it is more likely than not that the Company will be
    required to sell the fixed maturity security before recovery of
    the decline in estimated fair value below amortized cost. If
    neither of these two conditions exist, the difference between
    the amortized cost of the fixed maturity security and the
    present value of projected future cash flows expected to be
    collected is recognized as an OTTI in earnings ( credit
    loss ). If the estimated fair value is less than the
    present value of projected future cash flows expected to be
    collected, this portion of OTTI related to other-than credit
    factors ( noncredit loss ) is recorded in other
    comprehensive income (loss). There was no change for equity
    securities which, when an OTTI has occurred, continue to be
    impaired for the entire difference between the equity
    security s cost and its estimated fair value with a
    corresponding charge to earnings. The Company does not make any
    adjustments for subsequent recoveries in value.

Prior to the adoption of the OTTI guidance, the Company
    recognized in earnings an OTTI for a fixed maturity security in
    an unrealized loss position unless it could assert that it had
    both the intent and ability to hold the fixed maturity security
    for a period of time sufficient to allow for a recovery of
    estimated fair value to the security s amortized cost.
    Also, prior to the adoption of this guidance, the entire
    difference between the fixed maturity security s amortized
    cost basis and its estimated fair value was recognized in
    earnings if it was determined to have an OTTI.

With respect to equity securities, the Company considers in its
    OTTI analysis its intent and ability to hold a particular equity
    security for a period of time sufficient to allow for the
    recovery of its estimated fair value to an amount equal to or
    greater than cost. If a sale decision is made for an equity
    security and it is not expected to recover to an amount at least
    equal to cost prior to the expected time of the sale, the
    security will be deemed
     other-than-temporarily 
    impaired in the period that the sale decision was made and an
    OTTI loss will be recorded in earnings. When an OTTI loss has
    occurred, the OTTI loss is the entire difference between the
    equity security s cost and its estimated fair value with a
    corresponding charge to earnings.

With respect to perpetual hybrid securities that have attributes
    of both debt and equity, some of which are classified as fixed
    maturity securities and some of which are classified as
    non-redeemable preferred stock within equity securities, the
    Company considers in its OTTI analysis whether there has been
    any deterioration in credit of the issuer and the likelihood of
    recovery in value of the securities that are in a severe and
    extended unrealized loss position. The Company also considers
    whether any perpetual hybrid securities, with an unrealized
    loss, regardless of credit rating, have deferred any dividend
    payments. When an OTTI loss has occurred, the OTTI loss is the
    entire difference between the perpetual hybrid security s
    cost and its estimated fair value with a corresponding charge to
    earnings.

F-12

Table of Contents   

MetLife,
    Inc. 

Notes to
    the Consolidated Financial
    Statements   (Continued)  

The Company s methodology and significant inputs used to
    determine the amount of the credit loss on fixed maturity
    securities under the OTTI guidance are as follows:

(i) 

The Company calculates the recovery value by performing a
    discounted cash flow analysis based on the present value of
    future cash flows expected to be received. The discount rate is
    generally the effective interest rate of the fixed maturity
    security prior to impairment.

(ii) 

When determining the collectability and the period over which
    value is expected to recover, the Company applies the same
    considerations utilized in its overall impairment evaluation
    process which incorporates information regarding the specific
    security, fundamentals of the industry and geographic area in
    which the security issuer operates, and overall macroeconomic
    conditions. Projected future cash flows are estimated using
    assumptions derived from management s best estimates of
    likely scenario-based outcomes after giving consideration to a
    variety of variables that include, but are not limited to:
    general payment terms of the security; the likelihood that the
    issuer can service the scheduled interest and principal
    payments; the quality and amount of any credit enhancements; the
    security s position within the capital structure of the
    issuer; possible corporate restructurings or asset sales by the
    issuer; and changes to the rating of the security or the issuer
    by rating agencies.

(iii) 

Additional considerations are made when assessing the unique
    features that apply to certain structured securities such as
    residential mortgage-backed securities ( RMBS ),
    commercial mortgage-backed securities ( CMBS ) and
    ABS. These additional factors for structured securities include,
    but are not limited to: the quality of underlying collateral;
    expected prepayment speeds; current and forecasted loss
    severity; consideration of the payment terms of the underlying
    assets backing a particular security; and the payment priority
    within the tranche structure of the security.

(iv) 

When determining the amount of the credit loss for U.S. and
    foreign corporate securities, foreign government securities and
    state and political subdivision securities, management considers
    the estimated fair value as the recovery value when available
    information does not indicate that another value is more
    appropriate. When information is identified that indicates a
    recovery value other than estimated fair value, management
    considers in the determination of recovery value the same
    considerations utilized in its overall impairment evaluation
    process which incorporates available information and
    management s best estimate of scenarios-based outcomes
    regarding the specific security and issuer; possible corporate
    restructurings or asset sales by the issuer; the quality and
    amount of any credit enhancements; the security s position
    within the capital structure of the issuer; fundamentals of the
    industry and geographic area in which the security issuer
    operates, and the overall macroeconomic conditions.

The cost or amortized cost of fixed maturity and equity
    securities is adjusted for OTTI in the period in which the
    determination is made. These impairments are included within net
    investment gains (losses). The Company does not change the
    revised cost basis for subsequent recoveries in value.

In periods subsequent to the recognition of OTTI on a fixed
    maturity security, the Company accounts for the impaired
    security as if it had been purchased on the measurement date of
    the impairment. Accordingly, the discount (or reduced premium)
    based on the new cost basis is accreted into net investment
    income over the remaining term of the fixed maturity security in
    a prospective manner based on the amount and timing of estimated
    future cash flows.

The Company purchases and receives beneficial interests in
    special purpose entities ( SPEs ), which enhance the
    Company s total return on its investment portfolio
    principally by providing equity-based returns on fixed maturity
    securities. These investments are generally made through
    structured notes and similar instruments (collectively,
     Structured Investment Transactions ). The Company has
    not guaranteed the performance, liquidity or obligations of the
    SPEs and its exposure to loss is limited to its carrying value
    of the beneficial interests in the SPEs. The Company does not
    consolidate such SPEs as it has determined it is not the primary
    beneficiary. These Structured Investment Transactions are
    included in fixed maturity

F-13

Table of Contents   

MetLife,
    Inc. 

Notes to
    the Consolidated Financial
    Statements   (Continued)  

securities and their investment income is generally recognized
    using the retrospective interest method. Impairments of these
    investments are included in net investment gains (losses). In
    addition, the Company has invested in certain structured
    transactions that are VIEs. These structured transactions
    include reinsurance trusts, asset-backed securitizations, hybrid
    securities, real estate joint ventures, other limited
    partnership interests, and limited liability companies. The
    Company consolidates those VIEs for which it is deemed to be the
    primary beneficiary. The Company reconsiders whether it is the
    primary beneficiary for investments designated as VIEs on a
    quarterly basis.

Trading and Other Securities.   Trading and
    other securities are stated at estimated fair value. Trading and
    other securities include investments that are actively purchased
    and sold ( Actively Traded Securities ). These
    Actively Traded Securities are principally fixed maturity
    securities. Short sale agreement liabilities related to Actively
    Traded Securities, included in other liabilities, are also
    stated at estimated fair value. Trading and other securities
    also includes securities for which the FVO has been elected
    ( FVO Securities ). FVO Securities include certain
    fixed maturity and equity securities
     held-for-investment 
    by the general account to support asset and liability matching
    strategies for certain insurance products. FVO Securities also
    include contractholder-directed investments supporting
    unit-linked variable annuity type liabilities which do not
    qualify for presentation and reporting as separate account
    summary total assets and liabilities. These investments are
    primarily mutual funds and, to a lesser extent, fixed maturity
    and equity securities, short-term investments and cash and cash
    equivalents. The investment returns on these investments inure
    to contractholders and are offset by a corresponding change in
    policyholder account balances through interest credited to
    policyholder account balances. Changes in estimated fair value
    of such trading and other securities subsequent to purchase are
    included in net investment income. FVO Securities also include
    securities held by consolidated securitization entities
    ( CSEs ) (former qualifying special purpose entities
    ( QSPEs )) with changes in estimated fair value
    subsequent to consolidation included in net investment gains
    (losses). Interest and dividends related to all trading and
    other securities are included in net investment income.

Securities Lending.   Securities loaned
    transactions, whereby blocks of securities, which are included
    in fixed maturity securities and short-term investments, are
    loaned to third parties, are treated as financing arrangements
    and the associated liability is recorded at the amount of cash
    received. At the inception of a loan, the Company obtains
    collateral, generally cash, in an amount at least equal to 102%
    of the estimated fair value of the securities loaned and
    maintains it at a level greater than or equal to 100% for the
    duration of the loan. The Company monitors the estimated fair
    value of the securities loaned on a daily basis with additional
    collateral obtained as necessary. Substantially all of the
    Company s securities loaned transactions are with brokerage
    firms and commercial banks. Income and expenses associated with
    securities loaned transactions are reported as investment income
    and investment expense, respectively, within net investment
    income.

Mortgage Loans   Mortgage Loans
     Held-For-Investment.    For
    the purposes of determining valuation allowances the Company
    disaggregates its mortgage loan investments into three portfolio
    segments: (1) commercial, (2) agricultural, and
    (3) residential. The accounting and valuation allowance
    policies that are applicable to all portfolio segments are
    presented below, followed by the policies applicable to both
    commercial and agricultural loans, which are very similar, as
    well as policies applicable to residential loans.

Commercial, Agricultural and Residential Mortgage
    Loans     Mortgage loans
     held-for-investment 
    are stated at unpaid principal balance, adjusted for any
    unamortized premium or discount, deferred fees or expenses, and
    net of valuation allowances. Interest income is accrued on the
    principal amount of the loan based on the loan s
    contractual interest rate. Amortization of premiums and
    discounts is recorded using the effective yield method. Interest
    income, amortization of premiums and discounts and prepayment
    fees are reported in net investment income. Interest ceases to
    accrue when collection of interest is not considered probable
     and/or  when
    interest or principal payments are past due as follows:
    commercial   60 days; and agricultural and
    residential   90 days, unless, in the case of a
    residential loan, it is both well-secured and in the process of
    collection. When a loan is placed on non-accrual status,
    uncollected

F-14

Table of Contents   

MetLife,
    Inc. 

Notes to
    the Consolidated Financial
    Statements   (Continued)  

past due interest is charged-off against net investment income.
    Generally, the accrual of interest income resumes after all
    delinquent amounts are paid and management believes all future
    principal and interest payments will be collected. Cash receipts
    on non-accruing loans are recorded in accordance with the loan
    agreement as a reduction of principal
     and/or 
    interest income. Charge-offs occur upon the realization of a
    credit loss, typically through foreclosure or after a decision
    is made to sell a loan, or for residential loans when, after
    considering the individual consumer s financial status,
    management believes that uncollectability is
     other-than-temporary. 
    Gain or loss upon charge-off is recorded, net of previously
    established valuation allowances, in net investment gains
    (losses). Cash recoveries on principal amounts previously
    charged-off are generally recorded as an increase to the
    valuation allowance, unless the valuation allowance adequately
    provides for expected credit losses; then the recovery is
    recorded in net investment gains (losses). Gains and losses from
    sales of loans and increases or decreases to valuation
    allowances are recorded in net investment gains (losses).

Mortgage loans are considered to be impaired when it is probable
    that, based upon current information and events, the Company
    will be unable to collect all amounts due under the contractual
    terms of the loan agreement. Specific valuation allowances are
    established using the same methodology for all three portfolio
    segments as the excess carrying value of a loan over either
    (i) the present value of expected future cash flows
    discounted at the loan s original effective interest rate,
    (ii) the estimated fair value of the loan s underlying
    collateral if the loan is in the process of foreclosure or
    otherwise collateral dependent, or (iii) the loan s
    observable market price. A common evaluation framework is used
    for establishing non-specific valuation allowances for all loan
    portfolio segments; however, a separate non-specific valuation
    allowance is calculated and maintained for each loan portfolio
    segment that is based on inputs unique to each loan portfolio
    segment. Non-specific valuation allowances are established for
    pools of loans with similar risk characteristics where a
    property-specific or market-specific risk has not been
    identified, but for which the Company expects to incur a credit
    loss. These evaluations are based upon several loan portfolio
    segment-specific factors, including the Company s
    experience for loan losses, defaults and loss severity, and loss
    expectations for loans with similar risk characteristics. The
    Company typically uses ten years, or more, of historical
    experience, in these evaluations. These evaluations are revised
    as conditions change and new information becomes available.

Commercial and Agricultural Mortgage Loans  
     All commercial and agricultural loans are monitored on an
    ongoing basis for potential credit losses. For commercial loans,
    these ongoing reviews may include an analysis of the property
    financial statements and rent roll, lease rollover analysis,
    property inspections, market analysis, estimated valuations of
    the underlying collateral,
     loan-to-value 
    ratios, debt service coverage ratios, and tenant
    creditworthiness. The monitoring process focuses on higher risk
    loans, which include those that are classified as restructured,
    potentially delinquent, delinquent or in foreclosure, as well as
    loans with higher
     loan-to-value 
    ratios and lower debt service coverage ratios. The monitoring
    process for agricultural loans is generally similar, with a
    focus on higher risk loans, including reviews on a geographic
    and property-type basis. Higher risk commercial and agricultural
    loans are reviewed individually on an ongoing basis for
    potential credit loss and specific valuation allowances are
    established using the methodology described above for all loan
    portfolio segments. Quarterly, the remaining loans are reviewed
    on a pool basis by aggregating groups of loans that have similar
    risk characteristics for potential credit loss, and non-specific
    valuation allowances are established as described above using
    inputs that are unique to each segment of the loan portfolio.

For commercial loans, the Company s primary credit quality
    indicator is the debt service coverage ratio, which compares a
    property s net operating income to amounts needed to
    service the principal and interest due under the loan.
    Generally, the lower the debt service coverage ratio, the higher
    the risk of experiencing a credit loss. The values utilized in
    calculating these ratios are developed in connection with the
    ongoing review of the commercial loan portfolio and are
    routinely updated.

F-15

Table of Contents   

MetLife,
    Inc. 

Notes to
    the Consolidated Financial
    Statements   (Continued)  

For agricultural loans, the Company s primary credit
    qualify indicator is the
     loan-to-value 
    ratio.
     Loan-to-value 
    ratios compare the amount of the loan to the estimated fair
    value of the underlying collateral. A
     loan-to-value 
    ratio greater than 100% indicates that the loan amount is
    greater than the collateral value. A
     loan-to-value 
    ratio of less than 100% indicates an excess of collateral value
    over the loan amount. Generally, the higher the
     loan-to-value 
    ratio, the higher the risk of experiencing a credit loss. The
    values utilized in calculating these ratios are developed in
    connection with the ongoing review of the agricultural loan
    portfolio and are routinely updated.

Residential Mortgage Loans    The Company s
    residential loan portfolio is comprised primarily of closed end,
    amortizing residential loans and home equity lines of credit and
    it does not hold any optional adjustable rate mortgages,
     sub-prime, 
    or low teaser rate loans.

In contrast to the commercial and agricultural loan portfolios,
    residential loans are smaller-balance homogeneous loans that are
    collectively evaluated for impairment. Non-specific valuation
    allowances are established using the evaluation framework
    described above for pools of loans with similar risk
    characteristics from inputs that are unique to the residential
    segment of the loan portfolio. Loan specific valuation
    allowances are only established on residential loans when they
    have been restructured and are established using the methodology
    described above for all loan portfolio segments.

For residential loans, the Company s primary credit quality
    indicator is whether the loan is performing or non-performing.
    The Company generally defines non-performing residential loans
    as those that are 90 or more days past due
     and/or  in
    non-accrual status. The determination of performing or
    non-performing status is assessed monthly. Generally,
    non-performing residential loans have a higher risk of
    experiencing a credit loss.

Also included in mortgage loans
     held-for-investment 
    are commercial mortgage loans held by CSEs that were
    consolidated by the Company on January 1, 2010 upon the
    adoption of new guidance. The Company elected FVO for these
    commercial mortgage loans, and thus they are stated at estimated
    fair value with changes in estimated fair value subsequent to
    consolidation recognized in net investment gains (losses).

Mortgage Loans   Mortgage Loans
     Held-For-Sale.    Mortgage
    loans
     held-for-sale 
    primarily include residential mortgage loans which are
    originated with the intent to sell and for which FVO was
    elected. These residential mortgage loans are stated at
    estimated fair value with subsequent changes in estimated fair
    value recognized in other revenue. This caption also includes
    mortgage loans previously designated as
     held-for-investment 
    about which the Company has subsequently changed its intention.
    At the time of transfer to
     held-for-sale 
    status, such mortgage loans are recorded at the lower of
    amortized cost or estimated fair value less expected disposition
    costs determined on an individual loan basis. Amortized cost is
    determined in the same manner as for mortgage loans
     held-for-investment 
    as described above. The amount by which amortized cost exceeds
    estimated fair value, less expected disposition costs, is
    recognized in net investment gains (losses).

Policy Loans.   Policy loans are stated at
    unpaid principal balances. Interest income on such loans is
    recorded as earned in net investment income using the
    contractually agreed upon interest rate. Generally, interest is
    capitalized on the policy s anniversary date. Valuation
    allowances are not established for policy loans, as these loans
    are fully collateralized by the cash surrender value of the
    underlying insurance policies. Any unpaid principal or interest
    on the loan is deducted from the cash surrender value or the
    death benefit prior to settlement of the policy.

Real Estate.   Real estate
     held-for-investment, 
    including related improvements, is stated at cost less
    accumulated depreciation. Depreciation is provided on a
    straight-line basis over the estimated useful life of the asset
    (typically 20 to 55 years). Rental income is recognized on
    a straight-line basis over the term of the respective leases.
    The Company classifies a property as
     held-for-sale 
    if it commits to a plan to sell a property within one year and
    actively markets the property in its current condition for a
    price that is reasonable in

F-16

Table of Contents   

MetLife,
    Inc. 

Notes to
    the Consolidated Financial
    Statements   (Continued)  

comparison to its estimated fair value. The Company classifies
    the results of operations and the gain or loss on sale of a
    property that either has been disposed of or classified as
     held-for-sale 
    as discontinued operations, if the ongoing operations of the
    property will be eliminated from the ongoing operations of the
    Company and if the Company will not have any significant
    continuing involvement in the operations of the property after
    the sale. Real estate
     held-for-sale 
    is stated at the lower of depreciated cost or estimated fair
    value less expected disposition costs. Real estate is not
    depreciated while it is classified as
     held-for-sale. 
    The Company periodically reviews its properties
     held-for-investment 
    for impairment and tests properties for recoverability whenever
    events or changes in circumstances indicate the carrying amount
    of the asset may not be recoverable and the carrying value of
    the property exceeds its estimated fair value. Properties whose
    carrying values are greater than their undiscounted cash flows
    are written down to their estimated fair value, with the
    impairment loss included in net investment gains (losses).
    Impairment losses are based upon the estimated fair value of
    real estate, which is generally computed using the present value
    of expected future cash flows from the real estate discounted at
    a rate commensurate with the underlying risks. Real estate
    acquired upon foreclosure is recorded at the lower of estimated
    fair value or the carrying value of the mortgage loan at the
    date of foreclosure.

Real Estate Joint Ventures and Other Limited Partnership
    Interests.   The Company uses the equity method of
    accounting for investments in real estate joint ventures and
    other limited partnership interests consisting of leveraged
    buy-out funds, hedge funds and other private equity funds in
    which it has more than a minor equity interest or more than a
    minor influence over the joint ventures or partnership s
    operations, but does not have a controlling interest and is not
    the primary beneficiary. The equity method is also used for such
    investments in which the Company has more than a minor influence
    or more than a 20% interest. Generally, the Company records its
    share of earnings using a three-month lag methodology for
    instances where the timely financial information is available
    and the contractual right exists to receive such financial
    information on a timely basis. The Company uses the cost method
    of accounting for investments in real estate joint ventures and
    other limited partnership interests in which it has a minor
    equity investment and virtually no influence over the joint
    ventures or the partnership s operations. The Company
    reports the distributions from real estate joint ventures and
    other limited partnership interests accounted for under the cost
    method and equity in earnings from real estate joint ventures
    and other limited partnership interests accounted for under the
    equity method in net investment income. In addition to the
    investees performing regular evaluations for the impairment of
    underlying investments, the Company routinely evaluates its
    investments in real estate joint ventures and other limited
    partnerships for impairments. The Company considers its cost
    method investments for OTTI when the carrying value of real
    estate joint ventures and other limited partnership interests
    exceeds the net asset value ( NAV ). The Company takes
    into consideration the severity and duration of this excess when
    deciding if the cost method investment is
     other-than-temporarily 
    impaired. For equity method investees, the Company considers
    financial and other information provided by the investee, other
    known information and inherent risks in the underlying
    investments, as well as future capital commitments, in
    determining whether an impairment has occurred. When an OTTI is
    deemed to have occurred, the Company records a realized capital
    loss within net investment gains (losses) to record the
    investment at its estimated fair value.

Short-term Investments.   Short-term investments
    include investments with remaining maturities of one year or
    less, but greater than three months, at the time of purchase and
    are stated at amortized cost, which approximates estimated fair
    value, or stated at estimated fair value, if available.

Other Invested Assets.   Other invested assets
    consist principally of freestanding derivatives with positive
    estimated fair values, leveraged leases, investments in
    insurance enterprise joint ventures, tax credit partnerships,
    funding agreements, mortgage servicing rights ( MSRs )
    and funds withheld.

Freestanding derivatives with positive estimated fair values are
    described in the derivatives accounting policy which follows.

F-17

Table of Contents   

MetLife,
    Inc. 

Notes to
    the Consolidated Financial
    Statements   (Continued)  

Leveraged leases are recorded net of non-recourse debt. The
    Company participates in lease transactions which are diversified
    by industry, asset type and geographic area. The Company
    recognizes income on the leveraged leases by applying the
    leveraged lease s estimated rate of return to the net
    investment in the lease. The Company regularly reviews residual
    values and impairs them to expected values.

Joint venture investments represent the Company s
    investments in entities that engage in insurance underwriting
    activities and are accounted for under the equity method.

Tax credit partnerships are established for the purpose of
    investing in low-income housing and other social causes, where
    the primary return on investment is in the form of tax credits
    and are also accounted for under the equity method or under the
    effective yield method. The Company reports the equity in
    earnings of joint venture investments and tax credit
    partnerships in net investment income.

Funding agreements represent arrangements where the Company has
    long-term interest bearing amounts on deposit with third parties
    and are generally stated at amortized cost.

MSRs are measured at estimated fair value and are either
    acquired or are generated from the sale of originated
    residential mortgage loans where the servicing rights are
    retained by the Company. Changes in estimated fair value of MSRs
    are reported in other revenues in the period in which the change
    occurs.

Funds withheld represent amounts contractually withheld by
    ceding companies in accordance with reinsurance agreements. The
    Company records a funds withheld receivable rather than the
    underlying investments. The Company recognizes interest on funds
    withheld at rates defined by the terms of the agreement which
    may be contractually specified or directly related to the
    underlying investments and records it in net investment income.

Investments Risks and Uncertainties.   The
    Company s investments are exposed to four primary sources
    of risk: credit, interest rate, liquidity risk, and market
    valuation. The financial statement risks, stemming from such
    investment risks, are those associated with the determination of
    estimated fair values, the diminished ability to sell certain
    investments in times of strained market conditions, the
    recognition of impairments, the recognition of income on certain
    investments and the potential consolidation of VIEs. The use of
    different methodologies, assumptions and inputs relating to
    these financial statement risks may have a material effect on
    the amounts presented within the consolidated financial
    statements.

When available, the estimated fair value of the Company s
    fixed maturity and equity securities are based on quoted prices
    in active markets that are readily and regularly obtainable.
    Generally, these are the most liquid of the Company s
    securities holdings and valuation of these securities does not
    involve management judgment.

When quoted prices in active markets are not available, the
    determination of estimated fair value is based on market
    standard valuation methodologies. The market standard valuation
    methodologies utilized include: discounted cash flow
    methodologies, matrix pricing or other similar techniques. The
    inputs to these market standard valuation methodologies include,
    but are not limited to: interest rates, credit standing of the
    issuer or counterparty, industry sector of the issuer, coupon
    rate, call provisions, sinking fund requirements, maturity,
    estimated duration and management s assumptions regarding
    liquidity and estimated future cash flows. Accordingly, the
    estimated fair values are based on available market information
    and management s judgments about financial instruments.

The significant inputs to the market standard valuation
    methodologies for certain types of securities with reasonable
    levels of price transparency are inputs that are observable in
    the market or can be derived principally from or corroborated by
    observable market data. Such observable inputs include
    benchmarking prices for similar assets in active, liquid
    markets, quoted prices in markets that are not active and
    observable yields and spreads in the market.

F-18

Table of Contents   

MetLife,
    Inc. 

Notes to
    the Consolidated Financial
    Statements   (Continued)  

When observable inputs are not available, the market standard
    valuation methodologies for determining the estimated fair value
    of certain types of securities that trade infrequently, and
    therefore have little or no price transparency, rely on inputs
    that are significant to the estimated fair value that are not
    observable in the market or cannot be derived principally from
    or corroborated by observable market data. These unobservable
    inputs can be based in large part on management judgment or
    estimation, and cannot be supported by reference to market
    activity. Even though unobservable, these inputs are based on
    assumptions deemed appropriate given the circumstances and
    consistent with what other market participants would use when
    pricing such securities.

The estimated fair value of residential mortgage loans
     held-for-sale 
    is determined based on observable pricing of residential
    mortgage loans
     held-for-sale 
    with similar characteristics, or observable pricing for
    securities backed by similar types of loans, adjusted to convert
    the securities prices to loan prices. Generally, quoted market
    prices are not available. When observable pricing for similar
    loans, or securities that are backed by similar loans, are not
    available, the estimated fair values of residential mortgage
    loans
     held-for-sale 
    are determined using independent broker quotations, which is
    intended to approximate the amounts that would be received from
    third parties. Certain other mortgage loans have also been
    designated as
     held-for-sale 
    which are recorded at the lower of amortized cost or estimated
    fair value less expected disposition costs determined on an
    individual loan basis. For these loans, estimated fair value is
    determined using independent broker quotations or, when the loan
    is in foreclosure or otherwise determined to be collateral
    dependent, the estimated fair value of the underlying collateral
    estimated using internal models.

The estimated fair value of MSRs is principally determined
    through the use of internal discounted cash flow models which
    utilize various assumptions. Valuation inputs and assumptions
    include generally observable items such as type and age of loan,
    loan interest rates, current market interest rates, and certain
    unobservable inputs, including assumptions regarding estimates
    of discount rates, loan prepayments and servicing costs, all of
    which are sensitive to changing market conditions. The use of
    different valuation assumptions and inputs, as well as
    assumptions relating to the collection of expected cash flows,
    may have a material effect on the estimated fair values of MSRs.

Financial markets are susceptible to severe events evidenced by
    rapid depreciation in asset values accompanied by a reduction in
    asset liquidity. The Company s ability to sell securities,
    or the price ultimately realized for these securities, depends
    upon the demand and liquidity in the market and increases the
    use of judgment in determining the estimated fair value of
    certain securities.

The determination of the amount of allowances and impairments,
    as applicable, is described previously by investment type. The
    determination of such allowances and impairments is highly
    subjective and is based upon the Company s periodic
    evaluation and assessment of known and inherent risks associated
    with the respective asset class. Such evaluations and
    assessments are revised as conditions change and new information
    becomes available.

The recognition of income on certain investments (e.g.
    loan-backed securities, including mortgage-backed and ABS,
    certain structured investment transactions, trading and other
    securities) is dependent upon market conditions, which could
    result in prepayments and changes in amounts to be earned.

The accounting guidance for the determination of when an entity
    is a VIE and when to consolidate a VIE is complex and requires
    significant management judgment. The determination of the
    VIE s primary beneficiary requires an evaluation of the
    contractual and implied rights and obligations associated with
    each party s relationship with or involvement in the
    entity, an estimate of the entity s expected losses and
    expected residual returns and the allocation of such estimates
    to each party involved in the entity. The Company generally uses
    a qualitative approach to determine whether it is the primary
    beneficiary.

For most VIEs, the entity that has both the ability to direct
    the most significant activities of the VIE and the obligation to
    absorb losses or receive benefits that could be significant to
    the VIE is considered the primary beneficiary. However, for VIEs
    that are investment companies or apply measurement principles
    consistent

F-19

Table of Contents   

MetLife,
    Inc. 

Notes to
    the Consolidated Financial
    Statements   (Continued)  

with those utilized by investment companies, the primary
    beneficiary is based on a risks and rewards model and is defined
    as the entity that will absorb a majority of a VIE s
    expected losses, receive a majority of a VIE s expected
    residual returns if no single entity absorbs a majority of
    expected losses, or both. The Company reassesses its involvement
    with VIEs on a quarterly basis. The use of different
    methodologies, assumptions and inputs in the determination of
    the primary beneficiary could have a material effect on the
    amounts presented within the consolidated financial statements.

Derivative
    Financial Instruments  

Derivatives are financial instruments whose values are derived
    from interest rates, foreign currency exchange rates, credit
    spreads,
     and/or  other
    financial indices. Derivatives may be exchange-traded or
    contracted in the
     over-the-counter 
    market. The Company uses a variety of derivatives, including
    swaps, forwards, futures and option contracts, to manage various
    risks relating to its ongoing business. To a lesser extent, the
    Company uses credit derivatives, such as credit default swaps,
    to synthetically replicate investment risks and returns which
    are not readily available in the cash market. The Company also
    purchases certain securities, issues certain insurance policies
    and investment contracts and engages in certain reinsurance
    contracts that have embedded derivatives.

Freestanding derivatives are carried on the Company s
    consolidated balance sheets either as assets within other
    invested assets or as liabilities within other liabilities at
    estimated fair value as determined through the use of quoted
    market prices for exchange-traded derivatives and interest rate
    forwards to sell certain to-be-announced securities or through
    the use of pricing models for
     over-the-counter 
    derivatives. The determination of estimated fair value, when
    quoted market values are not available, is based on market
    standard valuation methodologies and inputs that are assumed to
    be consistent with what other market participants would use when
    pricing the instruments. Derivative valuations can be affected
    by changes in interest rates, foreign currency exchange rates,
    financial indices, credit spreads, default risk (including the
    counterparties to the contract), volatility, liquidity and
    changes in estimates and assumptions used in the pricing models.

The Company does not offset the fair value amounts recognized
    for derivatives executed with the same counterparty under the
    same master netting agreement.

If a derivative is not designated as an accounting hedge or its
    use in managing risk does not qualify for hedge accounting,
    changes in the estimated fair value of the derivative are
    generally reported in net derivative gains (losses) except for
    those (i) in policyholder benefits and claims for economic
    hedges of variable annuity guarantees included in future policy
    benefits; (ii) in net investment income for economic hedges
    of equity method investments in joint ventures, or for all
    derivatives held in relation to the trading portfolios;
    (iii) in other revenues for derivatives held in connection
    with the Company s mortgage banking activities; and
    (iv) in other expenses for economic hedges of foreign
    currency exposure related to the Company s international
    subsidiaries. The fluctuations in estimated fair value of
    derivatives which have not been designated for hedge accounting
    can result in significant volatility in net income.

To qualify for hedge accounting, at the inception of the hedging
    relationship, the Company formally documents its risk management
    objective and strategy for undertaking the hedging transaction,
    as well as its designation of the hedge as either (i) a
    hedge of the estimated fair value of a recognized asset or
    liability ( fair value hedge  (ii) a hedge of a
    forecasted transaction or of the variability of cash flows to be
    received or paid related to a recognized asset or liability
    ( cash flow hedge  or (iii) a hedge of a net
    investment in a foreign operation. In this documentation, the
    Company sets forth how the hedging instrument is expected to
    hedge the designated risks related to the hedged item and sets
    forth the method that will be used to retrospectively and
    prospectively assess the hedging instrument s effectiveness
    and the method which will be used to measure ineffectiveness. A
    derivative designated as a hedging instrument must be assessed
    as being highly effective in offsetting the designated risk of
    the hedged item. Hedge effectiveness is formally assessed at
    inception and periodically throughout the life of the designated
    hedging relationship. Assessments of hedge effectiveness and
    measurements of ineffectiveness are also subject to
    interpretation and estimation and different interpretations or
    estimates may have a material effect on the amount reported in
    net income.

F-20

Table of Contents   

MetLife,
    Inc. 

Notes to
    the Consolidated Financial
    Statements   (Continued)  

The accounting for derivatives is complex and interpretations of
    the primary accounting guidance continue to evolve in practice.
    Judgment is applied in determining the availability and
    application of hedge accounting designations and the appropriate
    accounting treatment under such accounting guidance. If it was
    determined that hedge accounting designations were not
    appropriately applied, reported net income could be materially
    affected.

Under a fair value hedge, changes in the estimated fair value of
    the hedging derivative, including amounts measured as
    ineffectiveness, and changes in the estimated fair value of the
    hedged item related to the designated risk being hedged, are
    reported within net derivative gains (losses). The estimated
    fair values of the hedging derivatives are exclusive of any
    accruals that are separately reported in the consolidated
    statement of operations within interest income or interest
    expense to match the location of the hedged item. However,
    accruals that are not scheduled to settle until maturity are
    included in the estimated fair value of derivatives in the
    consolidated balance sheets.

Under a cash flow hedge, changes in the estimated fair value of
    the hedging derivative measured as effective are reported within
    other comprehensive income (loss), a separate component of
    stockholders  equity, and the deferred gains or losses on
    the derivative are reclassified into the consolidated statement
    of operations when the Company s earnings are affected by
    the variability in cash flows of the hedged item. Changes in the
    estimated fair value of the hedging instrument measured as
    ineffectiveness are reported within net derivative gains
    (losses). The estimated fair values of the hedging derivatives
    are exclusive of any accruals that are separately reported in
    the consolidated statement of operations within interest income
    or interest expense to match the location of the hedged item.
    However, accruals that are not scheduled to settle until
    maturity are included in the estimated fair value of derivatives
    in the consolidated balance sheets.

In a hedge of a net investment in a foreign operation, changes
    in the estimated fair value of the hedging derivative that are
    measured as effective are reported within other comprehensive
    income (loss) consistent with the translation adjustment for the
    hedged net investment in the foreign operation. Changes in the
    estimated fair value of the hedging instrument measured as
    ineffectiveness are reported within net derivative gains
    (losses).

The Company discontinues hedge accounting prospectively when:
    (i) it is determined that the derivative is no longer
    highly effective in offsetting changes in the estimated fair
    value or cash flows of a hedged item; (ii) the derivative
    expires, is sold, terminated, or exercised; (iii) it is no
    longer probable that the hedged forecasted transaction will
    occur; or (iv) the derivative is de-designated as a hedging
    instrument.

When hedge accounting is discontinued because it is determined
    that the derivative is not highly effective in offsetting
    changes in the estimated fair value or cash flows of a hedged
    item, the derivative continues to be carried in the consolidated
    balance sheets at its estimated fair value, with changes in
    estimated fair value recognized currently in net derivative
    gains (losses). The carrying value of the hedged recognized
    asset or liability under a fair value hedge is no longer
    adjusted for changes in its estimated fair value due to the
    hedged risk, and the cumulative adjustment to its carrying value
    is amortized into income over the remaining life of the hedged
    item. Provided the hedged forecasted transaction is still
    probable of occurrence, the changes in estimated fair value of
    derivatives recorded in other comprehensive income (loss)
    related to discontinued cash flow hedges are released into the
    consolidated statement of operations when the Company s
    earnings are affected by the variability in cash flows of the
    hedged item.

When hedge accounting is discontinued because it is no longer
    probable that the forecasted transactions will occur on the
    anticipated date or within two months of that date, the
    derivative continues to be carried in the consolidated balance
    sheets at its estimated fair value, with changes in estimated
    fair value recognized currently in net derivative gains
    (losses). Deferred gains and losses of a derivative recorded in
    other comprehensive income (loss) pursuant to the discontinued
    cash flow hedge of a forecasted transaction that is no longer
    probable are recognized immediately in net derivative gains
    (losses).

In all other situations in which hedge accounting is
    discontinued, the derivative is carried at its estimated fair
    value in the consolidated balance sheets, with changes in its
    estimated fair value recognized in the current period as net
    derivative gains (losses).

F-21

Table of Contents   

MetLife,
    Inc. 

Notes to
    the Consolidated Financial
    Statements   (Continued)  

The Company is also a party to financial instruments that
    contain terms which are deemed to be embedded derivatives. The
    Company assesses each identified embedded derivative to
    determine whether it is required to be bifurcated. If the
    instrument would not be accounted for in its entirety at
    estimated fair value and it is determined that the terms of the
    embedded derivative are not clearly and closely related to the
    economic characteristics of the host contract, and that a
    separate instrument with the same terms would qualify as a
    derivative instrument, the embedded derivative is bifurcated
    from the host contract and accounted for as a freestanding
    derivative. Such embedded derivatives are carried in the
    consolidated balance sheets at estimated fair value with the
    host contract and changes in their estimated fair value are
    generally reported in net derivative gains (losses) except for
    those in policyholder benefits and claims related to ceded
    reinsurance of guaranteed minimum income benefits
    ( GMIBs ). If the Company is unable to properly
    identify and measure an embedded derivative for separation from
    its host contract, the entire contract is carried on the balance
    sheet at estimated fair value, with changes in estimated fair
    value recognized in the current period in net investment gains
    (losses) or net investment income. Additionally, the Company may
    elect to carry an entire contract on the balance sheet at
    estimated fair value, with changes in estimated fair value
    recognized in the current period in net investment gains
    (losses) or net investment income if that contract contains an
    embedded derivative that requires bifurcation.

Cash and
    Cash Equivalents  

The Company considers all highly liquid investments purchased
    with an original or remaining maturity of three months or less
    at the date of purchase to be cash equivalents. Cash equivalents
    are stated at amortized cost, which approximates estimated fair
    value.

Property,
    Equipment, Leasehold Improvements and Computer
    Software  

Property, equipment and leasehold improvements, which are
    included in other assets, are stated at cost, less accumulated
    depreciation and amortization. Depreciation is determined using
    the straight-line method over the estimated useful lives of the
    assets, as appropriate. The estimated life for company occupied
    real estate property is generally 40 years. Estimated lives
    generally range from five to ten years for leasehold
    improvements and three to seven years for all other property and
    equipment. The cost basis of the property, equipment and
    leasehold improvements was $2.4 billion and
    $1.9 billion at December 31, 2010 and 2009,
    respectively. Accumulated depreciation and amortization of
    property, equipment and leasehold improvements was
    $1.2 billion and $1.0 billion at December 31,
    2010 and 2009, respectively. Related depreciation and
    amortization expense was $152 million, $152 million
    and $150 million for the years ended December 31,
    2010, 2009 and 2008, respectively.

Computer software, which is included in other assets, is stated
    at cost, less accumulated amortization. Purchased software
    costs, as well as certain internal and external costs incurred
    to develop internal-use computer software during the application
    development stage, are capitalized. Such costs are amortized
    generally over a four-year period using the straight-line
    method. The cost basis of computer software was
    $2.0 billion and $1.7 billion at December 31,
    2010 and 2009, respectively. Accumulated amortization of
    capitalized software was $1.4 billion and $1.2 billion
    at December 31, 2010 and 2009, respectively. Related
    amortization expense was $189 million, $171 million
    and $153 million for the years ended December 31,
    2010, 2009 and 2008, respectively.

Deferred
    Policy Acquisition Costs ( DAC ) and Value of Business
    Acquired ( VOBA )  

The Company incurs significant costs in connection with
    acquiring new and renewal insurance business. Costs that vary
    with and relate to the production of new business are deferred
    as DAC. Such costs consist principally of commissions and agency
    and policy issuance expenses. VOBA is an intangible asset that
    represents the excess of book value over the estimated fair
    value of acquired insurance, annuity, and investment-type
    contracts in-force at the acquisition date. The estimated fair
    value of the acquired liabilities is based on actuarially
    determined projections, by each block of business, of future
    policy and contract charges, premiums, mortality and morbidity,
    separate account performance, surrenders, operating expenses,
    investment returns, nonperformance risk adjustment

F-22

Table of Contents   

MetLife,
    Inc. 

Notes to
    the Consolidated Financial
    Statements   (Continued)  

and other factors. Actual experience on the purchased business
    may vary from these projections. The recovery of DAC and VOBA is
    dependent upon the future profitability of the related business.
    DAC and VOBA are aggregated in the consolidated financial
    statements for reporting purposes.

DAC for credit, property and casualty insurance contracts, which
    is primarily composed of commissions and certain underwriting
    expenses, is amortized on a pro rata basis over the applicable
    contract term or reinsurance treaty.

DAC and VOBA on life insurance, accident and health or
    investment-type contracts are amortized in proportion to gross
    premiums, gross margins or gross profits, depending on the type
    of contract as described below.

The Company amortizes DAC and VOBA related to non-participating
    and non-dividend-paying traditional contracts (term insurance,
    non-participating whole life insurance, traditional group life
    insurance, credit insurance, non-medical health insurance, and
    accident and health insurance) over the entire premium paying
    period in proportion to the present value of actual historic and
    expected future gross premiums. The present value of expected
    premiums is based upon the premium requirement of each policy
    and assumptions for mortality, morbidity, persistency and
    investment returns at policy issuance, or policy acquisition (as
    it relates to VOBA), that include provisions for adverse
    deviation and are consistent with the assumptions used to
    calculate future policyholder benefit liabilities. These
    assumptions are not revised after policy issuance or acquisition
    unless the DAC or VOBA balance is deemed to be unrecoverable
    from future expected profits. Absent a premium deficiency,
    variability in amortization after policy issuance or acquisition
    is caused only by variability in premium volumes.

The Company amortizes DAC and VOBA related to participating,
    dividend-paying traditional contracts over the estimated lives
    of the contracts in proportion to actual and expected future
    gross margins. The amortization includes interest based on rates
    in effect at inception or acquisition of the contracts. The
    future gross margins are dependent principally on investment
    returns, policyholder dividend scales, mortality, persistency,
    expenses to administer the business, creditworthiness of
    reinsurance counterparties and certain economic variables, such
    as inflation. For participating contracts within the closed
    block (dividend paying traditional contracts) future gross
    margins are also dependent upon changes in the policyholder
    dividend obligation. Of these factors, the Company anticipates
    that investment returns, expenses, persistency and other factor
    changes as well as policyholder dividend scales are reasonably
    likely to impact significantly the rate of DAC and VOBA
    amortization. Each reporting period, the Company updates the
    estimated gross margins with the actual gross margins for that
    period. When the actual gross margins change from previously
    estimated gross margins, the cumulative DAC and VOBA
    amortization is re-estimated and adjusted by a cumulative charge
    or credit to current operations. When actual gross margins
    exceed those previously estimated, the DAC and VOBA amortization
    will increase, resulting in a current period charge to earnings.
    The opposite result occurs when the actual gross margins are
    below the previously estimated gross margins. Each reporting
    period, the Company also updates the actual amount of business
    in-force, which impacts expected future gross margins. When
    expected future gross margins are below those previously
    estimated, the DAC and VOBA amortization will increase,
    resulting in a current period charge to earnings. The opposite
    result occurs when the expected future gross margins are above
    the previously estimated expected future gross margins. Each
    period, the Company also reviews the estimated gross margins for
    each block of business to determine the recoverability of DAC
    and VOBA balances.

The Company amortizes DAC and VOBA related to fixed and variable
    universal life contracts and fixed and variable deferred annuity
    contracts over the estimated lives of the contracts in
    proportion to actual and expected future gross profits. The
    amortization includes interest based on rates in effect at
    inception or acquisition of the contracts. The amount of future
    gross profits is dependent principally upon returns in excess of
    the amounts credited to policyholders, mortality, persistency,
    interest crediting rates, expenses to administer the business,
    creditworthiness of reinsurance counterparties, the effect of
    any hedges used and certain economic variables, such as
    inflation. Of these factors, the Company anticipates that
    investment returns, expenses and persistency are reasonably
    likely to impact significantly the rate of DAC and VOBA
    amortization. Each reporting period, the Company updates the
    estimated gross profits with the actual gross profits for that
    period. When the actual gross

F-23

Table of Contents   

MetLife,
    Inc. 

Notes to
    the Consolidated Financial
    Statements   (Continued)  

profits change from previously estimated gross profits, the
    cumulative DAC and VOBA amortization is re-estimated and
    adjusted by a cumulative charge or credit to current operations.
    When actual gross profits exceed those previously estimated, the
    DAC and VOBA amortization will increase, resulting in a current
    period charge to earnings. The opposite result occurs when the
    actual gross profits are below the previously estimated gross
    profits. Each reporting period, the Company also updates the
    actual amount of business remaining in-force, which impacts
    expected future gross profits. When expected future gross
    profits are below those previously estimated, the DAC and VOBA
    amortization will increase, resulting in a current period charge
    to earnings. The opposite result occurs when the expected future
    gross profits are above the previously estimated expected future
    gross profits. Each period, the Company also reviews the
    estimated gross profits for each block of business to determine
    the recoverability of DAC and VOBA balances.

Separate account rates of return on variable universal life
    contracts and variable deferred annuity contracts affect
    in-force account balances on such contracts each reporting
    period which can result in significant fluctuations in
    amortization of DAC and VOBA. Returns that are higher than the
    Company s long-term expectation produce higher account
    balances, which increases the Company s future fee
    expectations and decreases future benefit payment expectations
    on minimum death and living benefit guarantees, resulting in
    higher expected future gross profits. The opposite result occurs
    when returns are lower than the Company s long-term
    expectation. The Company s practice to determine the impact
    of gross profits resulting from returns on separate accounts
    assumes that long-term appreciation in equity markets is not
    changed by short-term market fluctuations, but is only changed
    when sustained interim deviations are expected. The Company
    monitors these events and only changes the assumption when its
    long-term expectation changes.

The Company also periodically reviews other long-term
    assumptions underlying the projections of estimated gross
    margins and profits. These include investment returns,
    policyholder dividend scales, interest crediting rates,
    mortality, persistency and expenses to administer business.
    Management annually updates assumptions used in the calculation
    of estimated gross margins and profits which may have
    significantly changed. If the update of assumptions causes
    expected future gross margins and profits to increase, DAC and
    VOBA amortization will decrease, resulting in a current period
    increase to earnings. The opposite result occurs when the
    assumption update causes expected future gross margins and
    profits to decrease.

Periodically, the Company modifies product benefits, features,
    rights or coverages that occur by the exchange of a contract for
    a new contract, or by amendment, endorsement, or rider to a
    contract, or by election or coverage within a contract. If such
    modification, referred to as an internal replacement,
    substantially changes the contract, the associated DAC or VOBA
    is written off immediately through income and any new deferrable
    costs associated with the replacement contract are deferred. If
    the modification does not substantially change the contract, the
    DAC or VOBA amortization on the original contract will continue
    and any acquisition costs associated with the related
    modification are expensed.

Sales
    Inducements  

The Company generally has two different types of sales
    inducements which are included in other assets: (i) the
    policyholder receives a bonus whereby the policyholder s
    initial account balance is increased by an amount equal to a
    specified percentage of the customer s deposit; and
    (ii) the policyholder receives a higher interest rate using
    a dollar cost averaging method than would have been received
    based on the normal general account interest rate credited. The
    Company defers sales inducements and amortizes them over the
    life of the policy using the same methodology and assumptions
    used to amortize DAC. The amortization of sales inducements is
    included in policyholder benefits and claims. Each year, or more
    frequently if circumstances indicate a potentially significant
    recoverability issue exists, the Company reviews the deferred
    sales inducements to determine the recoverability of these
    balances.

F-24

Table of Contents   

MetLife,
    Inc. 

Notes to
    the Consolidated Financial
    Statements   (Continued)  

Value of
    Distribution Agreements and Customer Relationships
    Acquired  

Value of distribution agreements ( VODA ) is reported
    in other assets and represents the present value of expected
    future profits associated with the expected future business
    derived from the distribution agreements. Value of customer
    relationships acquired ( VOCRA ) is also reported in
    other assets and represents the present value of the expected
    future profits associated with the expected future business
    acquired through existing customers of the acquired company or
    business. The VODA and VOCRA associated with past acquisitions
    are amortized over useful lives ranging from 10 to 40 years
    and such amortization is included in other expenses. Each year,
    or more frequently if circumstances indicate a potentially
    significant recoverability issue exists, the Company reviews
    VODA and VOCRA to determine the recoverability of these balances.

Goodwill  

Goodwill is the excess of cost over the estimated fair value of
    net assets acquired which represents the future economic
    benefits arising from such net assets acquired that could not be
    individually identified. Goodwill is not amortized but is tested
    for impairment at least annually or more frequently if events or
    circumstances, such as adverse changes in the business climate,
    indicate that there may be justification for conducting an
    interim test. The Company performs its annual goodwill
    impairment testing during the third quarter of each year based
    upon data as of the close of the second quarter. Goodwill
    associated with a business acquisition is not tested for
    impairment during the year the business is acquired unless there
    is a significant identified impairment event.

Impairment testing is performed using the fair value approach,
    which requires the use of estimates and judgment, at the
     reporting unit  level. A reporting unit is the
    operating segment or a business one level below the operating
    segment, if discrete financial information is prepared and
    regularly reviewed by management at that level. For purposes of
    goodwill impairment testing, a significant portion of goodwill
    within Banking, Corporate   Other is allocated to
    reporting units within the Company s segments.

For purposes of goodwill impairment testing, if the carrying
    value of a reporting unit exceeds its estimated fair value,
    there might be an indication of impairment. In such instances,
    the implied fair value of the goodwill is determined in the same
    manner as the amount of goodwill that would be determined in a
    business acquisition. The excess of the carrying value of
    goodwill over the implied fair value of goodwill would be
    recognized as an impairment and recorded as a charge against net
    income.

In performing the Company s goodwill impairment tests, the
    estimated fair values of the reporting units are first
    determined using a market multiple approach. When further
    corroboration is required, the Company uses a discounted cash
    flow approach. For reporting units which are particularly
    sensitive to market assumptions, such as the retirement products
    and individual life reporting units, the Company may use
    additional valuation methodologies to estimate the reporting
    units  fair values.

The key inputs, judgments and assumptions necessary in
    determining estimated fair value of the reporting units include
    projected earnings, current book value (with and without
    accumulated other comprehensive income), the level of economic
    capital required to support the mix of business, long-term
    growth rates, comparative market multiples, the account value of
    in-force business, projections of new and renewal business, as
    well as margins on such business, the level of interest rates,
    credit spreads, equity market levels and the discount rate that
    the Company believes is appropriate for the respective reporting
    unit. The estimated fair values of the retirement products and
    individual life reporting units are particularly sensitive to
    the equity market levels.

When testing goodwill for impairment, the Company also considers
    its market capitalization in relation to the aggregate estimated
    fair value of its reporting units.

The Company applies significant judgment when determining the
    estimated fair value of the Company s reporting units and
    when assessing the relationship of market capitalization to the
    aggregate estimated fair value of its reporting units. The
    valuation methodologies utilized are subject to key judgments
    and assumptions that are

F-25

Table of Contents   

MetLife,
    Inc. 

Notes to
    the Consolidated Financial
    Statements   (Continued)  

sensitive to change. Estimates of fair value are inherently
    uncertain and represent only management s reasonable
    expectation regarding future developments. These estimates and
    the judgments and assumptions upon which the estimates are based
    will, in all likelihood, differ in some respects from actual
    future results. Declines in the estimated fair value of the
    Company s reporting units could result in goodwill
    impairments in future periods which could materially adversely
    affect the Company s results of operations or financial
    position.

During the 2010 impairment tests of goodwill, the Company
    concluded that the fair values of all reporting units were in
    excess of their carrying values and, therefore, goodwill was not
    impaired. On an ongoing basis, the Company evaluates potential
    triggering events that may affect the estimated fair value of
    the Company s reporting units to assess whether any
    goodwill impairment exists. Deteriorating or adverse market
    conditions for certain reporting units may have a significant
    impact on the estimated fair value of these reporting units and
    could result in future impairments of goodwill.

See Note 7 for further consideration of goodwill impairment
    testing during 2010.

Liability
    for Future Policy Benefits and Policyholder Account
    Balances  

The Company establishes liabilities for amounts payable under
    insurance policies, including traditional life insurance,
    traditional annuities, certain accident and health, and
    non-medical health insurance. Generally, amounts are payable
    over an extended period of time and related liabilities are
    calculated as the present value of future expected benefits to
    be paid reduced by the present value of future expected
    premiums. Such liabilities are established based on methods and
    underlying assumptions in accordance with GAAP and applicable
    actuarial standards. Principal assumptions used in the
    establishment of liabilities for future policy benefits are
    mortality, morbidity, policy lapse, renewal, retirement,
    disability incidence, disability terminations, investment
    returns, inflation, expenses and other contingent events as
    appropriate to the respective product type and geographical
    area. These assumptions are established at the time the policy
    is issued and are intended to estimate the experience for the
    period the policy benefits are payable. Utilizing these
    assumptions, liabilities are established on a block of business
    basis.

Future policy benefit liabilities for participating traditional
    life insurance policies are equal to the aggregate of
    (i) net level premium reserves for death and endowment
    policy benefits (calculated based upon the non-forfeiture
    interest rate, ranging from 3% to 7% for domestic business and
    1% to 12% for international business, and mortality rates
    guaranteed in calculating the cash surrender values described in
    such contracts); and (ii) the liability for terminal
    dividends for domestic business.

Participating business represented approximately 6% of the
    Company s life insurance in-force at both December 31,
    2010 and 2009. Participating policies represented approximately
    26%, 28% and 27% of gross life insurance premiums for the years
    ended December 31, 2010, 2009 and 2008, respectively.

Future policy benefit liabilities for non-participating
    traditional life insurance policies are equal to the aggregate
    of the present value of expected future benefit payments and
    related expenses less the present value of expected future net
    premiums. Assumptions as to mortality and persistency are based
    upon the Company s experience when the basis of the
    liability is established. Interest rate assumptions for the
    aggregate future policy benefit liabilities range from 3% to 8%
    for domestic business and 1% to 12% for international business.

Future policy benefit liabilities for individual and group
    traditional fixed annuities after annuitization are equal to the
    present value of expected future payments. Interest rate
    assumptions used in establishing such liabilities range from 2%
    to 11% for domestic business and 3% to 12% for international
    business.

Future policy benefit liabilities for non-medical health
    insurance, primarily related to domestic business, are
    calculated using the net level premium method and assumptions as
    to future morbidity, withdrawals and interest, which provide a
    margin for adverse deviation. Interest rate assumptions used in
    establishing such liabilities range from 4% to 7%.

F-26

Table of Contents   

MetLife,
    Inc. 

Notes to
    the Consolidated Financial
    Statements   (Continued)  

Future policy benefit liabilities for disabled lives are
    estimated using the present value of benefits method and
    experience assumptions as to claim terminations, expenses and
    interest. Interest rate assumptions used in establishing such
    liabilities range from 3% to 8% for domestic business and 2% to
    9% for international business.

Liabilities for unpaid claims and claim expenses for property
    and casualty insurance are included in future policyholder
    benefits and represent the amount estimated for claims that have
    been reported but not settled and claims incurred but not
    reported. Liabilities for unpaid claims are estimated based upon
    the Company s historical experience and other actuarial
    assumptions that consider the effects of current developments,
    anticipated trends and risk management programs, reduced for
    anticipated salvage and subrogation. The effects of changes in
    such estimated liabilities are included in the results of
    operations in the period in which the changes occur.

The Company establishes future policy benefit liabilities for
    minimum death and income benefit guarantees relating to certain
    annuity contracts and secondary and
     paid-up 
    guarantees relating to certain life policies as follows:

Guaranteed minimum death benefit ( GMDB ) liabilities
    are determined by estimating the expected value of death
    benefits in excess of the projected account balance and
    recognizing the excess ratably over the accumulation period
    based on total expected assessments. The Company regularly
    evaluates estimates used and adjusts the additional liability
    balance, with a related charge or credit to benefit expense, if
    actual experience or other evidence suggests that earlier
    assumptions should be revised. The assumptions used in
    estimating the GMDB liabilities are consistent with those used
    for amortizing DAC, and are thus subject to the same variability
    and risk. The assumptions of investment performance and
    volatility are consistent with the historical experience of the
    appropriate underlying equity index, such as the
    Standard   Poor s ( S P ) 500
    Index. The benefit assumptions used in calculating the
    liabilities are based on the average benefits payable over a
    range of scenarios.

Guaranteed minimum income benefit ( GMIB ) liabilities
    are determined by estimating the expected value of the income
    benefits in excess of the projected account balance at any
    future date of annuitization and recognizing the excess ratably
    over the accumulation period based on total expected
    assessments. The Company regularly evaluates estimates used and
    adjusts the additional liability balance, with a related charge
    or credit to benefit expense, if actual experience or other
    evidence suggests that earlier assumptions should be revised.
    The assumptions used for estimating the GMIB liabilities are
    consistent with those used for estimating the GMDB liabilities.
    In addition, the calculation of guaranteed annuitization benefit
    liabilities incorporates an assumption for the percentage of the
    potential annuitizations that may be elected by the
    contractholder. Certain GMIBs have settlement features that
    result in a portion of that guarantee being accounted for as an
    embedded derivative and are recorded in policyholder account
    balances as described below.

Liabilities for universal and variable life secondary guarantees
    and  paid-up 
    guarantees are determined by estimating the expected value of
    death benefits payable when the account balance is projected to
    be zero and recognizing those benefits ratably over the
    accumulation period based on total expected assessments. The
    Company regularly evaluates estimates used and adjusts the
    additional liability balances, with a related charge or credit
    to benefit expense, if actual experience or other evidence
    suggests that earlier assumptions should be revised. The
    assumptions used in estimating the secondary and
     paid-up 
    guarantee liabilities are consistent with those used for
    amortizing DAC, and are thus subject to the same variability and
    risk. The assumptions of investment performance and volatility
    for variable products are consistent with historical S P
    experience. The benefits used in calculating the liabilities are
    based on the average benefits payable over a range of scenarios.

The Company establishes policyholder account balances for
    guaranteed minimum benefits relating to certain variable annuity
    products as follows:

Guaranteed minimum withdrawal benefits ( GMWB )
    guarantee the contractholder a return of their purchase payment
    via partial withdrawals, even if the account value is reduced to
    zero, provided that

F-27

Table of Contents   

MetLife,
    Inc. 

Notes to
    the Consolidated Financial
    Statements   (Continued)  

the contractholder s cumulative withdrawals in a contract
    year do not exceed a certain limit. The initial guaranteed
    withdrawal amount is equal to the initial benefit base as
    defined in the contract (typically, the initial purchase
    payments plus applicable bonus amounts). The GMWB is an embedded
    derivative, which is measured at estimated fair value separately
    from the host variable annuity product.

Guaranteed minimum accumulation benefits ( GMAB ) and
    settlement features in certain GMIB described above provide the
    contractholder, after a specified period of time determined at
    the time of issuance of the variable annuity contract, with a
    minimum accumulation of their purchase payments even if the
    account value is reduced to zero. The initial guaranteed
    accumulation amount is equal to the initial benefit base as
    defined in the contract (typically, the initial purchase
    payments plus applicable bonus amounts). The GMAB is an embedded
    derivative, which is measured at estimated fair value separately
    from the host variable annuity product.

For GMWB, GMAB and certain GMIB, the initial benefit base is
    increased by additional purchase payments made within a certain
    time period and decreases by benefits paid
     and/or 
    withdrawal amounts. After a specified period of time, the
    benefit base may also increase as a result of an optional reset
    as defined in the contract.

GMWB, GMAB and certain GMIB are accounted for as embedded
    derivatives with changes in estimated fair value reported in net
    derivative gains (losses).

At inception of the GMWB, GMAB and certain GMIB contracts, the
    Company attributes to the embedded derivative a portion of the
    projected future guarantee fees to be collected from the
    policyholder equal to the present value of projected future
    guaranteed benefits. Any additional fees represent
     excess  fees and are reported in universal life and
    investment-type product policy fees.

The estimated fair values of these embedded derivatives are then
    determined based on the present value of projected future
    benefits minus the present value of projected future fees. The
    projections of future benefits and future fees require capital
    market and actuarial assumptions including expectations
    concerning policyholder behavior. A risk neutral valuation
    methodology is used under which the cash flows from the
    guarantees are projected under multiple capital market scenarios
    using observable risk free rates. The valuation of these
    embedded derivatives also includes an adjustment for the
    Company s nonperformance risk and risk margins for
    non-capital market inputs. The nonperformance adjustment is
    determined by taking into consideration publicly available
    information relating to spreads in the secondary market for the
    Holding Company s debt, including related credit default
    swaps. These observable spreads are then adjusted, as necessary,
    to reflect the priority of these liabilities and the claims
    paying ability of the issuing insurance subsidiaries compared to
    the Holding Company. Risk margins are established to capture the
    non-capital market risks of the instrument which represent the
    additional compensation a market participant would require to
    assume the risks related to the uncertainties of such actuarial
    assumptions as annuitization, premium persistency, partial
    withdrawal and surrenders. The establishment of risk margins
    requires the use of significant management judgment.

These guaranteed minimum benefits may be more costly than
    expected in volatile or declining equity markets. Market
    conditions including, but not limited to, changes in interest
    rates, equity indices, market volatility and foreign currency
    exchange rates, changes in nonperformance risk, variations in
    actuarial assumptions regarding policyholder behavior, mortality
    and risk margins related to non-capital market inputs may result
    in significant fluctuations in the estimated fair value of the
    guarantees that could materially affect net income.

The Company periodically reviews its estimates of actuarial
    liabilities for future policy benefits and compares them with
    its actual experience. Differences between actual experience and
    the assumptions used in pricing these policies and guarantees,
    and in the establishment of the related liabilities result in
    variances in profit and could result in losses. The effects of
    changes in such estimated liabilities are included in the
    results of operations in the period in which the changes occur.

F-28

Table of Contents   

MetLife,
    Inc. 

Notes to
    the Consolidated Financial
    Statements   (Continued)  

Policyholder account balances relate to investment-type
    contracts, universal life-type policies and certain guaranteed
    minimum benefits. Investment-type contracts principally include
    traditional individual fixed annuities in the accumulation phase
    and non-variable group annuity contracts. Policyholder account
    balances for these contracts are equal to (i) policy
    account values, which consist of an accumulation of gross
    premium payments and investment performance; (ii) credited
    interest, ranging from 1% to 17% for domestic business and 1% to
    38% for international business, less expenses, mortality charges
    and withdrawals; and (iii) fair value adjustments relating
    to business combinations.

Other
    Policy-Related Balances  

Other policy-related balances include policy and contract
    claims, unearned revenue liabilities, premiums received in
    advance, negative VOBA, policyholder dividends due and unpaid
    and policyholder dividends left on deposit.

The liability for policy and contract claims generally relates
    to incurred but not reported death, disability, long-term care
    and dental claims, as well as claims which have been reported
    but not yet settled. The liability for these claims is based on
    the Company s estimated ultimate cost of settling all
    claims. The Company derives estimates for the development of
    incurred but not reported claims principally from actuarial
    analyses of historical patterns of claims and claims development
    for each line of business. The methods used to determine these
    estimates are continually reviewed. Adjustments resulting from
    this continuous review process and differences between estimates
    and payments for claims are recognized in policyholder benefits
    and claims expense in the period in which the estimates are
    changed or payments are made.

The unearned revenue liability relates to universal life-type
    and investment-type products and represents policy charges for
    services to be provided in future periods. The charges are
    deferred as unearned revenue and amortized using the
    product s estimated gross profits and margins, similar to
    DAC. Such amortization is recorded in universal life and
    investment-type product policy fees.

The Company accounts for the prepayment of premiums on its
    individual life, group life and health contracts as premium
    received in advance and applies the cash received to premiums
    when due.

For certain acquired blocks of business, the estimated fair
    value of the in-force contract obligations exceeded the book
    value of assumed in-force insurance policy liabilities,
    resulting in negative VOBA, which is presented separately from
    VOBA as an additional insurance liability. The fair value of the
    in-force contract obligations is based on actuarial determined
    projections by each block of business. Negative VOBA is
    amortized over the policy period in proportion to the
    approximate consumption of losses included in the liability
    usually expressed in terms of insurance in-force or account
    value. Such amortization is recorded as a contra-expense in
    other expenses in the consolidated statements of operations.

Also included in other policy-related balances are policyholder
    dividends due and unpaid on participating policies and
    policyholder dividends left on deposit. Such liabilities are
    presented at amounts contractually due to policyholders.

Recognition
    of Insurance Revenue and Related Benefits  

Premiums related to traditional life and annuity policies with
    life contingencies and long-duration accident and health and
    credit insurance policies are recognized as revenues when due
    from policyholders. Policyholder benefits and expenses are
    provided against such revenues to recognize profits over the
    estimated lives of the policies. When premiums are due over a
    significantly shorter period than the period over which benefits
    are provided, any excess profit is deferred and recognized into
    operations in a constant relationship to insurance in-force or,
    for annuities, the amount of expected future policy benefit
    payments.

F-29

Table of Contents   

MetLife,
    Inc. 

Notes to
    the Consolidated Financial
    Statements   (Continued)  

Premiums related to short-duration non-medical health and
    disability contracts are recognized on a pro rata basis over the
    applicable contract term.

Deposits related to universal life-type and investment-type
    products are credited to policyholder account balances. Revenues
    from such contracts consist of amounts assessed against
    policyholder account balances for mortality, policy
    administration and surrender charges and are recorded in
    universal life and investment-type product policy fees in the
    period in which services are provided. Amounts that are charged
    to operations include interest credited and benefit claims
    incurred in excess of related policyholder account balances.

Premiums related to property and casualty contracts are
    recognized as revenue on a pro rata basis over the applicable
    contract term. Unearned premiums, representing the portion of
    premium written relating to the unexpired coverage, are included
    in future policy benefits.

Premiums, policy fees, policyholder benefits and expenses are
    presented net of reinsurance.

The portion of fees allocated to embedded derivatives described
    previously is recognized within net derivative gains (losses) as
    part of the estimated fair value of embedded derivatives.

Other
    Revenues  

Other revenues include, in addition to items described elsewhere
    herein, advisory fees, broker-dealer commissions and fees and
    administrative service fees. Such fees and commissions are
    recognized in the period in which services are performed. Other
    revenues also include changes in account value relating to
    corporate-owned life insurance ( COLI ). Under certain
    COLI contracts, if the Company reports certain unlikely adverse
    results in its consolidated financial statements, withdrawals
    would not be immediately available and would be subject to
    market value adjustment, which could result in a reduction of
    the account value.

Policyholder
    Dividends  

Policyholder dividends are approved annually by the insurance
    subsidiaries  boards of directors. The aggregate amount of
    policyholder dividends is related to actual interest, mortality,
    morbidity and expense experience for the year, as well as
    management s judgment as to the appropriate level of
    statutory surplus to be retained by the insurance subsidiaries.

Income
    Taxes  

The Holding Company and its includable life insurance and
    non-life insurance subsidiaries file a consolidated
    U.S. federal income tax return in accordance with the
    provisions of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended (the
     Code ). Non-includable subsidiaries file either
    separate individual corporate tax returns or separate
    consolidated tax returns.

The Company s accounting for income taxes represents
    management s best estimate of various events and
    transactions.

Deferred tax assets and liabilities resulting from temporary
    differences between the financial reporting and tax bases of
    assets and liabilities are measured at the balance sheet date
    using enacted tax rates expected to apply to taxable income in
    the years the temporary differences are expected to reverse.

For U.S. federal income tax purposes, the Company
    anticipates making an election under the Code Section 338
    as it relates to the Acquisition. As such, the tax basis in the
    acquired assets and liabilities is adjusted as of the
    Acquisition Date resulting in a change to the related deferred
    income taxes.

The realization of deferred tax assets depends upon the
    existence of sufficient taxable income within the carryback or
    carryforward periods under the tax law in the applicable tax
    jurisdiction. Valuation allowances are established when
    management determines, based on available information, that it
    is more likely than not that

F-30

Table of Contents   

MetLife,
    Inc. 

Notes to
    the Consolidated Financial
    Statements   (Continued)  

deferred income tax assets will not be realized. Significant
    judgment is required in determining whether valuation allowances
    should be established, as well as the amount of such allowances.
    When making such determination, consideration is given to, among
    other things, the following:

(i) 

future taxable income exclusive of reversing temporary
    differences and carryforwards;

(ii) 

future reversals of existing taxable temporary differences;

(iii) 

taxable income in prior carryback years; and

(iv) 

tax planning strategies.

The Company may be required to change its provision for income
    taxes in certain circumstances. Examples of such circumstances
    include when the ultimate deductibility of certain items is
    challenged by taxing authorities (see Note 15) or when
    estimates used in determining valuation allowances on deferred
    tax assets significantly change or when receipt of new
    information indicates the need for adjustment in valuation
    allowances. Additionally, future events, such as changes in tax
    laws, tax regulations, or interpretations of such laws or
    regulations, could have an impact on the provision for income
    tax and the effective tax rate. Any such changes could
    significantly affect the amounts reported in the consolidated
    financial statements in the year these changes occur.

The Company determines whether it is more likely than not that a
    tax position will be sustained upon examination by the
    appropriate taxing authorities before any part of the benefit
    can be recorded in the financial statements. A tax position is
    measured at the largest amount of benefit that is greater than
    50 percent likely of being realized upon settlement.
    Unrecognized tax benefits due to tax uncertainties that do not
    meet the threshold are included within other liabilities and are
    charged to earnings in the period that such determination is
    made.

The Company classifies interest recognized as interest expense
    and penalties recognized as a component of income tax.

Reinsurance  

The Company enters into reinsurance agreements primarily as a
    purchaser of reinsurance for its various insurance products and
    also as a provider of reinsurance for some insurance products
    issued by third parties.

For each of its reinsurance agreements, the Company determines
    whether the agreement provides indemnification against loss or
    liability relating to insurance risk in accordance with
    applicable accounting standards. The Company reviews all
    contractual features, particularly those that may limit the
    amount of insurance risk to which the reinsurer is subject or
    features that delay the timely reimbursement of claims.

For reinsurance of existing in-force blocks of long-duration
    contracts that transfer significant insurance risk, the
    difference, if any, between the amounts paid (received), and the
    liabilities ceded (assumed) related to the underlying contracts
    is considered the net cost of reinsurance at the inception of
    the reinsurance agreement. The net cost of reinsurance is
    recorded as an adjustment to DAC and recognized as a component
    of other expenses on a basis consistent with the way the
    acquisition costs on the underlying reinsured contracts would be
    recognized. Subsequent amounts paid (received) on the
    reinsurance of in-force blocks, as well as amounts paid
    (received) related to new business, are recorded as ceded
    (assumed) premiums and ceded (assumed) future policy benefit
    liabilities are established.

For prospective reinsurance of short-duration contracts that
    meet the criteria for reinsurance accounting, amounts paid
    (received) are recorded as ceded (assumed) premiums and ceded
    (assumed) unearned premiums and are reflected as a component of
    premiums and other receivables (future policy benefits). Such
    amounts are amortized through earned premiums over the remaining
    contract period in proportion to the amount of protection
    provided. For retroactive reinsurance of short-duration
    contracts that meet the criteria of reinsurance accounting,
    amounts paid (received) in excess of (which do not exceed) the
    related insurance liabilities ceded (assumed) are

F-31

Table of Contents   

MetLife,
    Inc. 

Notes to
    the Consolidated Financial
    Statements   (Continued)  

recognized immediately as a loss. Any gains on such retroactive
    agreements are deferred and recorded in other liabilities. The
    gains are amortized primarily using the recovery method.

The assumptions used to account for both long and short-duration
    reinsurance agreements are consistent with those used for the
    underlying contracts. Ceded policyholder and contract related
    liabilities, other than those currently due, are reported gross
    on the balance sheet.

Amounts currently recoverable under reinsurance agreements are
    included in premiums, reinsurance and other receivables and
    amounts currently payable are included in other liabilities.
    Such assets and liabilities relating to reinsurance agreements
    with the same reinsurer may be recorded net on the balance
    sheet, if a right of offset exists within the reinsurance
    agreement. In the event that reinsurers do not meet their
    obligations to the Company under the terms of the reinsurance
    agreements, reinsurance balances recoverable could become
    uncollectible. In such instances, reinsurance recoverable
    balances are stated net of allowances for uncollectible
    reinsurance.

Premiums, fees and policyholder benefits and claims include
    amounts assumed under reinsurance agreements and are net of
    reinsurance ceded. Amounts received from reinsurers for policy
    administration are reported in other revenues.

If the Company determines that a reinsurance agreement does not
    expose the reinsurer to a reasonable possibility of a
    significant loss from insurance risk, the Company records the
    agreement using the deposit method of accounting. Deposits
    received are included in other liabilities and deposits made are
    included within premiums, reinsurance and other receivables. As
    amounts are paid or received, consistent with the underlying
    contracts, the deposit assets or liabilities are adjusted.
    Interest on such deposits is recorded as other revenues or other
    expenses, as appropriate. Periodically, the Company evaluates
    the adequacy of the expected payments or recoveries and adjusts
    the deposit asset or liability through other revenues or other
    expenses, as appropriate.

Accounting for reinsurance requires extensive use of assumptions
    and estimates, particularly related to the future performance of
    the underlying business and the potential impact of counterparty
    credit risks. The Company periodically reviews actual and
    anticipated experience compared to the aforementioned
    assumptions used to establish assets and liabilities relating to
    ceded and assumed reinsurance and evaluates the financial
    strength of counterparties to its reinsurance agreements using
    criteria similar to that evaluated in the security impairment
    process discussed previously.

Cessions under reinsurance arrangements do not discharge the
    Company s obligations as the primary insurer.

Employee
    Benefit Plans  

Certain subsidiaries of the Holding Company (the
     Subsidiaries ) sponsor
     and/or 
    administer various plans that provide defined benefit pension
    and other postretirement benefits covering eligible employees
    and sales representatives. Measurement dates used for all of the
    Subsidiaries  defined benefit pension and other
    postretirement benefit plans correspond with the fiscal year
    ends of sponsoring Subsidiaries, which are December 31 for
    U.S. Subsidiaries and November 30 for most foreign
    Subsidiaries.

Pension benefits are provided utilizing either a traditional
    formula or cash balance formula. The traditional formula
    provides benefits based upon years of credited service and
    either final average or career average earnings. The cash
    balance formula utilizes hypothetical or notional accounts which
    credit participants with benefits equal to a percentage of
    eligible pay, as well as earnings credits, determined annually
    based upon the average annual rate of interest on
     30-year 
    Treasury securities, for each account balance.

The Subsidiaries also provide certain postemployment benefits
    and certain postretirement medical and life insurance benefits
    for retired employees. Employees of the Subsidiaries who were
    hired prior to 2003 (or, in certain cases, rehired during or
    after 2003) and meet age and service criteria while working
    for one of the Subsidiaries, may become eligible for these other
    postretirement benefits, at various levels, in accordance with
    the applicable plans.

F-32

Table of Contents   

MetLife,
    Inc. 

Notes to
    the Consolidated Financial
    Statements   (Continued)  

Virtually all retirees, or their beneficiaries, contribute a
    portion of the total cost of postretirement medical benefits.
    Employees hired after 2003 are not eligible for any employer
    subsidy for postretirement medical benefits.

The projected pension benefit obligation ( PBO ) is
    defined as the actuarially calculated present value of vested
    and non-vested pension benefits accrued based on future salary
    levels. The accumulated pension benefit obligation
    ( ABO ) is the actuarial present value of vested and
    non-vested pension benefits accrued based on current salary
    levels. Obligations, both PBO and ABO, of the defined benefit
    pension plans are determined using a variety of actuarial
    assumptions, from which actual results may vary, as described
    below.

The expected postretirement plan benefit obligations
    ( EPBO ) represents the actuarial present value of all
    other postretirement benefits expected to be paid after
    retirement to employees and their dependents and is used in
    measuring the periodic postretirement benefit expense. The
    accumulated postretirement plan benefit obligations
    ( APBO ) represents the actuarial present value of
    future other postretirement benefits attributed to employee
    services rendered through a particular date and is the valuation
    basis upon which liabilities are established. The APBO is
    determined using a variety of actuarial assumptions, from which
    actual results may vary, as described below.

The Company recognizes the funded status of the PBO for pension
    plans and the APBO for other postretirement plans for each of
    its plans in the consolidated balance sheets. The actuarial
    gains or losses, prior service costs and credits and the
    remaining net transition asset or obligation that had not yet
    been included in net periodic benefit costs are charged, net of
    income tax, to accumulated other comprehensive income (loss).

Net periodic benefit cost is determined using management
    estimates and actuarial assumptions to derive service cost,
    interest cost, and expected return on plan assets for a
    particular year. Net periodic benefit cost also includes the
    applicable amortization of any prior service cost (credit)
    arising from the increase (decrease) in prior years 
    benefit costs due to plan amendments or initiation of new plans.
    These costs are amortized into net periodic benefit cost over
    the expected service years of employees whose benefits are
    affected by such plan amendments. Actual experience related to
    plan assets
     and/or  the
    benefit obligations may differ from that originally assumed when
    determining net periodic benefit cost for a particular period,
    resulting in gains or losses. To the extent such aggregate gains
    or losses exceed 10 percent of the greater of the benefit
    obligations or the market-related asset value of the plans, they
    are amortized into net periodic benefit cost over the expected
    service years of employees expected to receive benefits under
    the plans.

The obligations and expenses associated with these plans require
    an extensive use of assumptions such as the discount rate,
    expected rate of return on plan assets, rate of future
    compensation increases, healthcare cost trend rates, as well as
    assumptions regarding participant demographics such as rate and
    age of retirements, withdrawal rates and mortality. Management,
    in consultation with its external consulting actuarial firms,
    determines these assumptions based upon a variety of factors
    such as historical performance of the plan and its assets,
    currently available market and industry data and expected
    benefit payout streams. The assumptions used may differ
    materially from actual results due to, among other factors,
    changing market and economic conditions and changes in
    participant demographics. These differences may have a
    significant effect on the Company s consolidated financial
    statements and liquidity.

The Subsidiaries also sponsor defined contribution savings and
    investment plans ( SIP ) for substantially all
    employees under which a portion of employee contributions is
    matched. Applicable matching contributions are made each payroll
    period. Accordingly, the Company recognizes compensation cost
    for current matching contributions. As all contributions are
    transferred currently as earned to the SIP trust, no liability
    for matching contributions is recognized in the consolidated
    balance sheets.

Stock-Based
    Compensation  

As more fully described in Note 18, the Company grants
    certain employees and directors stock-based compensation awards
    under various plans that are subject to specific vesting
    conditions. The cost of all stock-based

F-33

Table of Contents   

MetLife,
    Inc. 

Notes to
    the Consolidated Financial
    Statements   (Continued)  

transactions is measured at fair value at grant date and
    recognized over the period during which a grantee is required to
    provide goods or services in exchange for the award. Although
    the terms of the Company s stock-based plans do not
    accelerate vesting upon retirement, or the attainment of
    retirement eligibility, the requisite service period subsequent
    to attaining such eligibility is considered nonsubstantive.
    Accordingly, the Company recognizes compensation expense related
    to stock-based awards over the shorter of the requisite service
    period or the period to attainment of retirement eligibility. An
    estimation of future forfeitures of stock-based awards is
    incorporated into the determination of compensation expense when
    recognizing expense over the requisite service period.

Foreign
    Currency  

Assets, liabilities and operations of foreign affiliates and
    subsidiaries are recorded based on the functional currency of
    each entity. The determination of the functional currency is
    made based on the appropriate economic and management
    indicators. With the exception of certain foreign operations,
    primarily Japan, where multiple functional currencies exist, the
    local currencies of foreign operations are the functional
    currencies. Assets and liabilities of foreign affiliates and
    subsidiaries are translated from the functional currency to
    U.S. dollars at the exchange rates in effect at each
    year-end and income and expense accounts are translated at the
    average rates of exchange prevailing during the year. The
    resulting translation adjustments are charged or credited
    directly to other comprehensive income or loss, net of
    applicable taxes. Gains and losses from foreign currency
    transactions, including the effect of re-measurement of monetary
    assets and liabilities to the appropriate functional currency,
    are reported as part of net investment gains (losses) in the
    period in which they occur.

Discontinued
    Operations  

The results of operations of a component of the Company that
    either has been disposed of or is classified as
     held-for-sale 
    are reported in discontinued operations if the operations and
    cash flows of the component have been or will be eliminated from
    the ongoing operations of the Company as a result of the
    disposal transaction and the Company will not have any
    significant continuing involvement in the operations of the
    component after the disposal transaction.

Earnings
    Per Common Share  

Basic earnings per common share are computed based on the
    weighted average number of common shares, or their equivalent,
    outstanding during the period. The difference between the number
    of shares assumed issued and number of shares assumed purchased
    represents the dilutive shares. Diluted earnings per common
    share include the dilutive effect of the assumed:
    (i) exercise or issuance of stock-based awards using the
    treasury stock method; (ii) settlement of stock purchase
    contracts underlying common equity units using the treasury
    stock method; and (iii) settlement of accelerated common
    stock repurchase contracts. Under the treasury stock method,
    exercise or issuance of stock-based awards and settlement of the
    stock purchase contracts underlying common equity units is
    assumed to occur with the proceeds used to purchase common stock
    at the average market price for the period. See Notes 14,
    18 and 20.

Litigation
    Contingencies  

The Company is a party to a number of legal actions and is
    involved in a number of regulatory investigations. Given the
    inherent unpredictability of these matters, it is difficult to
    estimate the impact on the Company s financial position.
    Liabilities are established when it is probable that a loss has
    been incurred and the amount of the loss can be reasonably
    estimated. On a quarterly and annual basis, the Company reviews
    relevant information with respect to liabilities for litigation,
    regulatory investigations and litigation-related contingencies
    to be reflected in the Company s consolidated financial
    statements. It is possible that an adverse outcome in certain of
    the Company s litigation and regulatory investigations, or
    the use of different assumptions in the determination of

F-34

Table of Contents   

MetLife,
    Inc. 

Notes to
    the Consolidated Financial
    Statements   (Continued)  

amounts recorded, could have a material effect upon the
    Company s consolidated net income or cash flows in
    particular quarterly or annual periods.

Separate
    Accounts  

Separate accounts are established in conformity with insurance
    laws and are generally not chargeable with liabilities that
    arise from any other business of the Company. Separate account
    assets are subject to general account claims only to the extent
    the value of such assets exceeds the separate account
    liabilities. Assets within the Company s separate accounts
    primarily include: mutual funds, fixed maturity and equity
    securities, mortgage loans, derivatives, hedge funds, other
    limited partnership interests, short-term investments and cash
    and cash equivalents. The Company reports separately, as assets
    and liabilities, investments held in separate accounts and
    liabilities of the separate accounts if (i) such separate
    accounts are legally recognized; (ii) assets supporting the
    contract liabilities are legally insulated from the
    Company s general account liabilities;
    (iii) investments are directed by the contractholder; and
    (iv) all investment performance, net of contract fees and
    assessments, is passed through to the contractholder. The
    Company reports separate account assets meeting such criteria at
    their fair value which is based on the estimated fair values of
    the underlying assets comprising the portfolios of an individual
    separate account. Investment performance (including investment
    income, net investment gains (losses) and changes in unrealized
    gains (losses)) and the corresponding amounts credited to
    contractholders of such separate accounts are offset within the
    same line in the consolidated statements of operations. Separate
    accounts credited with a contractual investment return are
    combined on a
     line-by-line 
    basis with the Company s general account assets,
    liabilities, revenues and expenses and the accounting for these
    investments is consistent with the methodologies described
    herein for similar financial instruments held within the general
    account. Unit-linked separate account investments which are
    directed by contractholders but do not meet one or more of the
    other above criteria are included in trading and other
    securities.

The Company s revenues reflect fees charged to the separate
    accounts, including mortality charges, risk charges, policy
    administration fees, investment management fees and surrender
    charges.

Adoption
    of New Accounting Pronouncements   

Financial
    Instruments  

Effective December 31, 2010, the Company adopted new
    guidance regarding disclosures about the credit quality of
    financing receivables and valuation allowances for credit
    losses, including credit quality indicators. Such disclosures
    must be disaggregated by portfolio segment or class based on how
    a company develops its valuation allowances for credit losses
    and how it manages its credit exposure. The Company has provided
    all material required disclosures in its consolidated financial
    statements. Certain additional disclosures will be required for
    reporting periods beginning March 31, 2011 and certain
    disclosures relating to troubled debt restructurings have been
    deferred indefinitely.

Effective July 1, 2010, the Company adopted new guidance
    regarding accounting for embedded credit derivatives within
    structured securities. This guidance clarifies the type of
    embedded credit derivative that is exempt from embedded
    derivative bifurcation requirements. Specifically, embedded
    credit derivatives resulting only from subordination of one
    financial instrument to another continue to qualify for the
    scope exception. Embedded credit derivative features other than
    subordination must be analyzed to determine whether they require
    bifurcation and separate accounting.

As a result of the adoption of this guidance, the Company
    elected FVO for certain structured securities that were
    previously accounted for as fixed maturity securities. Upon
    adoption, the Company reclassified $50 million of
    securities from fixed maturity securities to trading and other
    securities. These securities had cumulative unrealized losses of
    $10 million, net of income tax, which was recognized as a
    cumulative effect adjustment to decrease

F-35

Table of Contents   

MetLife,
    Inc. 

Notes to
    the Consolidated Financial
    Statements   (Continued)  

retained earnings with a corresponding increase to accumulated
    other comprehensive income (loss) as of July 1, 2010.

Effective January 1, 2010, the Company adopted new guidance
    related to financial instrument transfers and consolidation of
    VIEs. The financial instrument transfer guidance eliminates the
    concept of a QSPE, eliminates the guaranteed mortgage
    securitization exception, changes the criteria for achieving
    sale accounting when transferring a financial asset and changes
    the initial recognition of retained beneficial interests. The
    new consolidation guidance changes the definition of the primary
    beneficiary, as well as the method of determining whether an
    entity is a primary beneficiary of a VIE from a quantitative
    model to a qualitative model. Under the new qualitative model,
    the entity that has both the ability to direct the most
    significant activities of the VIE and the obligation to absorb
    losses or receive benefits that could be significant to the VIE
    is considered to be the primary beneficiary of the VIE. The
    guidance requires a quarterly reassessment, as well as enhanced
    disclosures, including the effects of a company s
    involvement with VIEs on its financial statements.

As a result of the adoption of this guidance, the Company
    consolidated certain former QSPEs that were previously accounted
    for as fixed maturity CMBS and equity security collateralized
    debt obligations. The Company also elected FVO for all of the
    consolidated assets and liabilities of these entities. Upon
    consolidation, the Company recorded $278 million of
    securities classified as trading and other securities,
    $6,769 million of commercial mortgage loans and
    $6,822 million of long-term debt based on estimated fair
    values at January 1, 2010 and de-recognized
    $179 million in fixed maturity securities and less than
    $1 million in equity securities. The consolidation also
    resulted in a decrease in retained earnings of $12 million,
    net of income tax, and an increase in accumulated other
    comprehensive income (loss) of $42 million, net of income
    tax, at January 1, 2010. For the year ended
    December 31, 2010, the Company recorded $426 million
    of net investment income on the consolidated assets,
    $411 million of interest expense in other expenses on the
    related long-term debt, and $6 million in net investment
    gains (losses) to remeasure the assets and liabilities at their
    estimated fair values.

In addition, the Company also deconsolidated certain
    partnerships for which the Company does not have the power to
    direct activities and for which the Company has concluded it is
    no longer the primary beneficiary. These deconsolidations did
    not result in a cumulative effect adjustment to retained
    earnings and did not have a material impact on the
    Company s consolidated financial statements.

Also effective January 1, 2010, the Company adopted new
    guidance that indefinitely defers the above changes relating to
    the Company s interests in entities that have all the
    attributes of an investment company or for which it is industry
    practice to apply measurement principles for financial reporting
    that are consistent with those applied by an investment company.
    As a result of the deferral, the above guidance did not apply to
    certain real estate joint ventures and other limited partnership
    interests held by the Company.

As more fully described in  Summary of Significant
    Accounting Policies and Critical Accounting Estimates, 
    effective April 1, 2009, the Company adopted OTTI guidance.
    This guidance amends the previously used methodology for
    determining whether an OTTI exists for fixed maturity
    securities, changes the presentation of OTTI for fixed maturity
    securities and requires additional disclosures for OTTI on fixed
    maturity and equity securities in interim and annual financial
    statements.

The Company s net cumulative effect adjustment of adopting
    the OTTI guidance was an increase of $76 million to
    retained earnings with a corresponding increase to accumulated
    other comprehensive loss to reclassify the noncredit loss
    portion of previously recognized OTTI losses on fixed maturity
    securities held at April 1, 2009. This cumulative effect
    adjustment was comprised of an increase in the amortized cost
    basis of fixed maturity securities of $126 million, net of
    policyholder related amounts of $10 million and net of
    deferred income taxes of $40 million, resulting in the net
    cumulative effect adjustment of $76 million. The increase
    in the amortized cost basis of fixed maturity securities of
    $126 million by sector was as follows:
    $53 million   ABS, $43 million  
    RMBS, $17 million   U.S. corporate
    securities and $13 million   CMBS.

F-36

Table of Contents   

MetLife,
    Inc. 

Notes to
    the Consolidated Financial
    Statements   (Continued)  

As a result of the adoption of the OTTI guidance, the
    Company s pre-tax earnings for the year ended
    December 31, 2009 increased by $857 million, offset by
    an increase in other comprehensive loss representing OTTI
    relating to noncredit losses recognized during the year ended
    December 31, 2009.

Effective January 1, 2009, the Company adopted guidance on
    disclosures about derivative instruments and hedging. This
    guidance requires enhanced qualitative disclosures about
    objectives and strategies for using derivatives, quantitative
    disclosures about fair value amounts of and gains and losses on
    derivative instruments and disclosures about credit risk-related
    contingent features in derivative agreements. The Company has
    provided all of the material disclosures in its consolidated
    financial statements.

The following pronouncements relating to financial instruments
    had no material impact on the Company s consolidated
    financial statements:

.  

Effective January 1, 2009, the Company adopted
    prospectively an update on accounting for transfers of financial
    assets and repurchase financing transactions. This update
    provides guidance for evaluating whether to account for a
    transfer of a financial asset and repurchase financing as a
    single transaction or as two separate transactions.

.

Effective December 31, 2008, the Company adopted guidance
    on the recognition of interest income and impairment on
    purchased beneficial interests and beneficial interests that
    continue to be held by a transferor in securitized financial
    assets. This new guidance more closely aligns the determination
    of whether an OTTI has occurred for a beneficial interest in a
    securitized financial asset with the original guidance for fixed
    maturity securities classified as
     available-for-sale 
    or
     held-to-maturity. 

.

Effective January 1, 2008, the Company adopted guidance
    relating to application of the shortcut method of accounting for
    derivative instruments and hedging activities. This guidance
    permits interest rate swaps to have a non-zero fair value at
    inception when applying the shortcut method of assessing hedge
    effectiveness as long as the difference between the transaction
    price (zero) and the fair value (exit price), as defined by
    current accounting guidance on fair value measurements, is
    solely attributable to a bid-ask spread. In addition, entities
    are not precluded from applying the shortcut method of assessing
    hedge effectiveness in a hedging relationship of interest rate
    risk involving an interest bearing asset or liability in
    situations where the hedged item is not recognized for
    accounting purposes until settlement date as long as the period
    between trade date and settlement date of the hedged item is
    consistent with generally established conventions in the
    marketplace.

.

Effective January 1, 2008, the Company adopted guidance
    that permits a reporting entity to offset fair value amounts
    recognized for the right to reclaim cash collateral (a
    receivable) or the obligation to return cash collateral (a
    payable) against fair value amounts recognized for derivative
    instruments executed with the same counterparty under the same
    master netting arrangement that have been offset. This guidance
    also includes certain terminology modifications. Upon adoption
    of this guidance, the Company did not change its accounting
    policy of not offsetting fair value amounts recognized for
    derivative instruments under master netting arrangements.

.

Business
    Combinations and Noncontrolling Interests  

Effective January 1, 2009, the Company adopted revised
    guidance on business combinations and accounting for
    noncontrolling interests in the consolidated financial
    statements. Under this guidance:

All business combinations (whether full, partial or
     step  acquisitions) result in all assets and
    liabilities of an acquired business being recorded at fair
    value, with limited exceptions.

Acquisition costs are generally expensed as incurred;
    restructuring costs associated with a business combination are
    generally expensed as incurred subsequent to the acquisition
    date.

F-37

Table of Contents   

MetLife,
    Inc. 

Notes to
    the Consolidated Financial
    Statements   (Continued)  

The fair value of the purchase price, including the issuance of
    equity securities, is determined on the acquisition date.

Assets acquired and liabilities assumed in a business
    combination that arise from contingencies are recognized at fair
    value if the acquisition-date fair value can be reasonably
    determined. If the fair value is not estimable, an asset or
    liability is recorded if existence or incurrence at the
    acquisition date is probable and its amount is reasonably
    estimable.

Changes in deferred income tax asset valuation allowances and
    income tax uncertainties after the acquisition date generally
    affect income tax expense.

Noncontrolling interests (formerly known as  minority
    interests ) are valued at fair value at the acquisition
    date and are presented as equity rather than liabilities.

Net income (loss) includes amounts attributable to
    noncontrolling interests.

When control is attained on previously noncontrolling interests,
    the previously held equity interests are remeasured at fair
    value and a gain or loss is recognized.

Purchases or sales of equity interests that do not result in a
    change in control are accounted for as equity transactions.

When control is lost in a partial disposition, realized gains or
    losses are recorded on equity ownership sold and the remaining
    ownership interest is remeasured and holding gains or losses are
    recognized.

The adoption of this guidance on a prospective basis did not
    have an impact on the Company s consolidated financial
    statements. Financial statements and disclosures for periods
    prior to 2009 reflect the retrospective application of the
    accounting for noncontrolling interests as required under this
    guidance.

.

Effective January 1, 2009, the Company adopted
    prospectively guidance on determination of the useful life of
    intangible assets. This guidance amends the factors that should
    be considered in developing renewal or extension assumptions
    used to determine the useful life of a recognized intangible
    asset. This change is intended to improve the consistency
    between the useful life of a recognized intangible asset and the
    period of expected future cash flows used to measure the fair
    value of the asset. The Company determines useful lives and
    provides all of the material disclosures prospectively on
    intangible assets acquired on or after January 1, 2009 in
    accordance with this guidance.

Fair
    Value  

Effective January 1, 2010, the Company adopted new guidance
    that requires new disclosures about significant transfers into
     and/or  out
    of Levels 1 and 2 of the fair value hierarchy and activity
    in Level 3. In addition, this guidance provides
    clarification of existing disclosure requirements about level of
    disaggregation and inputs and valuation techniques. The adoption
    of this guidance did not have an impact on the Company s
    consolidated financial statements.

Effective January 1, 2008, the Company adopted fair value
    measurements guidance which defines fair value, establishes a
    consistent framework for measuring fair value, establishes a
    fair value hierarchy based on the observability of inputs used
    to measure fair value, and requires enhanced disclosures about
    fair value measurements and applied this guidance prospectively
    to assets and liabilities measured at fair value. The adoption
    of this guidance changed the valuation of certain freestanding
    derivatives by moving from a mid to bid pricing convention as it
    relates to certain volatility inputs, as well as the addition of
    liquidity adjustments and adjustments for risks inherent in a
    particular input or valuation technique. The adoption of this
    guidance also changed the valuation of the Company s
    embedded derivatives, most significantly the valuation of
    embedded derivatives associated with certain guarantees on
    variable annuity contracts. The change in valuation of embedded
    derivatives associated with guarantees on annuity contracts
    resulted from the incorporation of risk margins associated with
    non-capital market inputs and the inclusion of the
    Company s nonperformance risk in their valuation. At
    January 1, 2008, the impact of

F-38

Table of Contents   

MetLife,
    Inc. 

Notes to
    the Consolidated Financial
    Statements   (Continued)  

adopting the guidance on assets and liabilities measured at
    estimated fair value was $30 million ($19 million, net
    of income tax) and was recognized as a change in estimate in the
    accompanying consolidated statement of operations where it was
    presented in the respective statement of operations caption to
    which the item measured at estimated fair value is presented.
    There were no significant changes in estimated fair value of
    items measured at fair value and reflected in accumulated other
    comprehensive income (loss). The addition of risk margins and
    the Company s nonperformance risk adjustment in the
    valuation of embedded derivatives associated with annuity
    contracts may result in significant volatility in the
    Company s consolidated net income in future periods. The
    Company provided all of the material disclosures in Note 5.

In February 2007, the Financial Accounting Standards Board
    ( FASB ) issued guidance related to the FVO for
    financial assets and financial liabilities. This guidance
    permits entities the option to measure most financial
    instruments and certain other items at fair value at specified
    election dates and to recognize related unrealized gains and
    losses in earnings. The FVO is applied on an
     instrument-by-instrument 
    basis upon adoption of the standard, upon the acquisition of an
    eligible financial asset, financial liability or firm commitment
    or when certain specified reconsideration events occur. The fair
    value election is an irrevocable election. Effective
    January 1, 2008, the Company elected FVO on fixed maturity
    and equity securities backing certain pension products sold in
    Brazil. Such securities are presented as trading and other
    securities in the consolidated balance sheets with subsequent
    changes in estimated fair value recognized in net investment
    income. Previously, these securities were accounted for as
     available-for-sale 
    securities and unrealized gains and losses on these securities
    were recorded as a separate component of accumulated other
    comprehensive income (loss). The Company s insurance joint
    venture in Japan also elected FVO for certain of its existing
    single premium deferred annuities and the assets supporting such
    liabilities. FVO was elected to achieve improved reporting of
    the asset/liability matching associated with these products.
    Adoption of this guidance by the Company and its Japanese joint
    venture resulted in an increase in retained earnings of
    $27 million, net of income tax, at January 1, 2008.
    The election of FVO resulted in the reclassification of
    $10 million, net of income tax, of net unrealized gains
    from accumulated other comprehensive income (loss) to retained
    earnings on January 1, 2008.

The following pronouncements relating to fair value had no
    material impact on the Company s consolidated financial
    statements:

Effective September 30, 2008, the Company adopted guidance
    relating to the fair value measurements of financial assets when
    the market for those assets is not active. It provides guidance
    on how a company s internal cash flow and discount rate
    assumptions should be considered in the measurement of fair
    value when relevant market data does not exist, how observable
    market information in an inactive market affects fair value
    measurement and how the use of market quotes should be
    considered when assessing the relevance of observable and
    unobservable data available to measure fair value.

.

Effective January 1, 2009, the Company implemented fair
    value measurements guidance for certain nonfinancial assets and
    liabilities that are recorded at fair value on a non-recurring
    basis. This guidance applies to such items as:
    (i) nonfinancial assets and nonfinancial liabilities
    initially measured at estimated fair value in a business
    combination; (ii) reporting units measured at estimated
    fair value in the first step of a goodwill impairment test; and
    (iii) indefinite-lived intangible assets measured at
    estimated fair value for impairment assessment.

.

Effective January 1, 2009, the Company adopted
    prospectively guidance on issuer s accounting for
    liabilities measured at fair value with a third-party credit
    enhancement. This guidance states that an issuer of a liability
    with a third-party credit enhancement should not include the
    effect of the credit enhancement in the fair value measurement
    of the liability. In addition, it requires disclosures about the
    existence of any third-party credit enhancement related to
    liabilities that are measured at fair value.

.

Effective April 1, 2009, the Company adopted guidance on:
    (i) estimating the fair value of an asset or liability if
    there was a significant decrease in the volume and level of
    trading activity for these assets or

F-39

Table of Contents   

MetLife,
    Inc. 

Notes to
    the Consolidated Financial
    Statements   (Continued)  

liabilities; and (ii) identifying transactions that are not
    orderly. The Company has provided all of the material
    disclosures in its consolidated financial statements.

.

Effective December 31, 2009, the Company adopted guidance
    on: (i) measuring the fair value of investments in certain
    entities that calculate NAV per share; (ii) how investments
    within its scope would be classified in the fair value
    hierarchy; and (iii) enhanced disclosure requirements, for
    both interim and annual periods, about the nature and risks of
    investments measured at fair value on a recurring or
    non-recurring basis.

.

Effective December 31, 2009, the Company adopted guidance
    on measuring liabilities at fair value. This guidance provides
    clarification for measuring fair value in circumstances in which
    a quoted price in an active market for the identical liability
    is not available. In such circumstances a company is required to
    measure fair value using either a valuation technique that uses:
    (i) the quoted price of the identical liability when traded
    as an asset; or (ii) quoted prices for similar liabilities
    or similar liabilities when traded as assets; or
    (iii) another valuation technique that is consistent with
    the principles of fair value measurement such as an income
    approach (e.g., present value technique) or a market approach
    (e.g.,  entry  value technique).

.

Defined
    Benefit and Other Postretirement Plans  

Effective December 31, 2009, the Company adopted guidance
    to enhance the transparency surrounding the types of assets and
    associated risks in an employer s defined benefit pension
    or other postretirement benefit plans. This guidance requires an
    employer to disclose information about the valuation of plan
    assets similar to that required under other fair value
    disclosure guidance. The Company provided all of the material
    disclosures in its consolidated financial statements.

.

Other
    Pronouncements  

Effective April 1, 2009, the Company adopted prospectively
    guidance which establishes general standards for accounting and
    disclosures of events that occur subsequent to the balance sheet
    date but before financial statements are issued or available to
    be issued. The Company has provided all of the material
    disclosures in its consolidated financial statements.

The following pronouncements had no material impact on the
    Company s consolidated financial statements:

.  

Effective January 1, 2009, the Company adopted guidance on
    determining whether an instrument (or embedded feature) is
    indexed to an entity s own stock. This guidance provides a
    framework for evaluating the terms of a particular instrument
    and whether such terms qualify the instrument as being indexed
    to an entity s own stock.

.

Effective January 1, 2008, the Company adopted guidance on
    written loan commitments recorded at fair value through
    earnings. It provides guidance on (i) incorporating
    expected net future cash flows when related to the associated
    servicing of a loan when measuring fair value; and
    (ii) broadening the U.S. Securities and Exchange
    Commission ( SEC ) staff s view that
    internally-developed intangible assets should not be recorded as
    part of the fair value of a derivative loan commitment or to
    written loan commitments that are accounted for at fair value
    through earnings. Internally-developed intangible assets are not
    considered a component of the related instruments.

.

Effective January 1, 2008, the Company prospectively
    adopted guidance on the sale of real estate when the agreement
    includes a buy-sell clause. This guidance addresses whether the
    existence of a buy-sell arrangement would preclude partial sales
    treatment when real estate is sold to a jointly owned entity and
    concludes that the existence of a buy-sell clause does not
    necessarily preclude partial sale treatment under current
    guidance.

F-40

Table of Contents   

MetLife,
    Inc. 

Notes to
    the Consolidated Financial
    Statements   (Continued)  

Future
    Adoption of New Accounting Pronouncements   

In December 2010, the FASB issued new guidance addressing when a
    business combination should be assumed to have occurred for the
    purpose of providing pro forma disclosure (Accounting Standards
    Update ( ASU )
     2010-29, 
     Business Combinations (Topic 805): Disclosure of
    Supplementary Pro Forma Information for Business
    Combinations ). Under the new guidance, if an entity presents
    comparative financial statements, the entity should disclose
    revenue and earnings of the combined entity as though the
    business combination that occurred during the current year had
    occurred as of the beginning of the comparable prior annual
    reporting period. The guidance also expands the supplemental pro
    forma disclosures to include additional narratives. The guidance
    is effective for fiscal years beginning on or after
    December 15, 2010. The Company will apply the guidance
    prospectively on its accounting for future acquisitions and does
    not expect the adoption of this guidance to have a material
    impact on the Company s consolidated financial statements.

In December 2010, the FASB issued new guidance regarding
    goodwill impairment testing (ASU
     2010-28, 
     Intangibles   Goodwill and Other (Topic 350): When
    to Perform Step 2 of the Goodwill Impairment Test for Reporting
    Units with Zero or Negative Carrying Amounts ). This guidance
    modifies Step 1 of the goodwill impairment test for reporting
    units with zero or negative carrying amounts. For those
    reporting units, an entity would be required to perform Step 2
    of the test if qualitative factors indicate that it is more
    likely than not that goodwill impairment exists. The guidance is
    effective for the first quarter of 2011. The Company does not
    expect the adoption of this new guidance to have a material
    impact on its consolidated financial statements.

In October 2010, the FASB issued new guidance regarding
    accounting for deferred acquisition costs
     (ASU 2010-26, 
     Accounting for Costs Associated with Acquiring or Renewing
    Insurance Contracts ) effective for the first quarter of
    2012. This guidance clarifies the costs that should be deferred
    by insurance entities when issuing and renewing insurance
    contracts. The guidance also specifies that only costs related
    directly to successful acquisition of new or renewal contracts
    can be capitalized. All other acquisition-related costs should
    be expensed as incurred. The Company is currently evaluating the
    impact of this guidance on its consolidated financial statements.

In April 2010, the FASB issued new guidance regarding accounting
    for investment funds determined to be VIEs (ASU
     2010-15, 
     How Investments Held through Separate Accounts Affect an
    Insurer s Consolidation Analysis of Those Investments ).
    Under this guidance, an insurance entity would not be required
    to consolidate a voting-interest investment fund when it holds
    the majority of the voting interests of the fund through its
    separate accounts. In addition, an insurance entity would not
    consider the interests held through separate accounts for the
    benefit of policyholders in the insurer s evaluation of its
    economics in a VIE, unless the separate account contractholder
    is a related party. The guidance is effective for the first
    quarter of 2011. The Company does not expect the adoption of
    this new guidance to have a material impact on its consolidated
    financial statements.

2.    

Acquisitions
    and Dispositions  

2010
    Acquisition of ALICO   

Description
    of Transaction  

On the Acquisition Date, MetLife, Inc. acquired all of the
    issued and outstanding capital stock of American Life from ALICO
    Holdings, a subsidiary of AIG, and DelAm from AIG for a total
    purchase price of $16.4 billion, which consisted of
    (i) cash of $7.2 billion (includes settlement of
    intercompany balances and certain other adjustments), and
    (ii) securities of MetLife, Inc. valued at
    $9.2 billion.

The $7.2 billion cash portion of the purchase price was
    funded through the issuance of common stock as described in
    Note 18, fixed and floating rate senior debt as described
    in Note 11 as well as cash on hand. The securities issued
    to ALICO Holdings included (a) 78,239,712 shares of
    MetLife, Inc. s common stock;
    (b) 6,857,000 shares of Series B Contingent
    Convertible Junior Participating Non-Cumulative Perpetual
    Preferred Stock (the  Convertible Preferred Stock ) of
    MetLife, Inc.; and (c) 40 million common equity units

F-41

Table of Contents   

MetLife,
    Inc. 

Notes to
    the Consolidated Financial
    Statements   (Continued)  

of MetLife, Inc. (the  Equity Units ) with an
    aggregate stated amount at issuance of $3.0 billion,
    initially consisting of (i) three purchase contracts (the
     Series C Purchase Contracts,  the
     Series D Purchase Contracts  and the
     Series E Purchase Contracts  and, together, the
     Purchase Contracts ), obligating the holder to
    purchase, on specified future settlement dates, a variable
    number of shares of MetLife, Inc. s common stock for a
    fixed price; and (ii) an interest in each of three series
    of debt securities (the  Series C Debt
    Securities,  the  Series D Debt Securities 
    and the  Series E Debt Securities,  and,
    together, the  Debt Securities ) issued by MetLife,
    Inc. Distributions on the Equity Units will be made quarterly,
    through contract payments on the Purchase Contracts and interest
    payments on the Debt Securities, initially at an aggregate
    annual rate of 5.00% (an average annual rate of 3.02% on the
    Purchase Contracts and an average annual rate of 1.98% on the
    Debt Securities) as described in Note 14.

ALICO is an international life insurance company, providing
    consumers and businesses with products and services for life
    insurance, accident and health insurance, retirement and wealth
    management solutions in 54 countries. The Acquisition will
    significantly broaden the Company s diversification by
    product, distribution and geography, meaningfully accelerate
    MetLife s global growth strategy, and create the
    opportunity to build an international franchise leveraging the
    key strengths of ALICO. ALICO s largest international
    market is Japan. As of December 31, 2010, the Japan
    operation s total assets represented approximately 12% of
    the Company s total assets.

Fair
    Value and Allocation of Purchase Price  

The computation of total purchase consideration and the amounts
    recognized for each major class of assets acquired and
    liabilities assumed, based upon their respective fair values at
    the Acquisition Date, and the resulting goodwill, are presented
    below:

(1)  

Fair value is based on the opening price of MetLife, Inc. s
    common stock of $40.90 on the New York Stock Exchange
    ( NYSE ) on November 1, 2010. 

(2)  

Convertible into 68,570,000 shares of MetLife, Inc. s
    common stock upon a favorable vote of MetLife, Inc. s
    common stockholders before the first anniversary of the
    Acquisition Date. See Note 18. 

(3)  

The Equity Units include the Debt Securities and the Purchase
    Contracts that will settle in MetLife, Inc. s common stock
    on specified future dates. See Note 14. 

(4)  

Relates to the cash settlement of intercompany balances prior to
    the Acquisition for amounts in excess of certain
     agreed-upon 
    thresholds and certain other adjustments. 

F-42

Table of Contents   

MetLife,
    Inc. 

Notes to
    the Consolidated Financial
    Statements   (Continued)  

(5)  

Effective settlement of debt securities issued by MetLife, Inc.
    that are owned by ALICO and reduces the total purchase
    consideration. 

(6)  

Estimated fair value of potential payments related to the
    adequacy of reserves for guarantees on the fair value of a fund
    of assets backing certain United Kingdom ( U.K. )
    unit-linked contracts. 

The aggregate amount of MetLife, Inc. s common stock to be
    issued to ALICO Holdings in connection with the transaction is
    expected to be between 214.6 million to 231.5 million
    shares, consisting of 78.2 million shares issued at
    closing, 68.6 million shares to be issued upon conversion
    of the Convertible Preferred Stock and between 67.8 million
    and 84.7 million shares of common stock, in total, issuable
    upon settlement of the Purchase Contracts forming part of the
    Equity Units. See Note 14. The ownership of the shares
    issued to ALICO Holdings is subject to an investor rights
    agreement, which grants to ALICO Holdings certain rights and
    sets forth certain agreements with respect to ALICO
    Holdings  ownership of, voting on and transfer of the
    shares, including minimum holding periods and restrictions on
    the number of shares ALICO Holdings can sell at one time.

Recording
    of Assets Acquired and Liabilities Assumed  

The following table summarizes the amounts recognized at fair
    value for each major class of assets acquired and liabilities
    assumed and the resulting goodwill as of the Acquisition Date.

F-43

Table of Contents   

MetLife,
    Inc. 

Notes to
    the Consolidated Financial
    Statements   (Continued)  

Goodwill  

Goodwill is calculated as the excess of the consideration
    transferred over the net assets recognized and represents the
    future economic benefits arising from other assets acquired and
    liabilities assumed that could not be individually identified.
    The goodwill recorded as part of the Acquisition includes the
    expected synergies and other benefits that management believes
    will result from combining the operations of ALICO with the
    operations of MetLife, including further diversification in
    geographic mix and product offerings and an increase in
    distribution strength.

Of the $7.0 billion of goodwill, approximately
    $4.0 billion is estimated to be deductible for tax
    purposes. Of the $4.0 billion, approximately
    $573 million is estimated to be deductible for
    U.S. tax purposes prior to the completion of the
    anticipated restructuring of American Life s foreign
    branches. See   Branch Restructuring . The
    goodwill resulting from the Acquisition was presented within the
    Company s International segment.

Identified
    Intangibles  

VOBA reflects the estimated fair value of in-force contracts
    acquired and represents the portion of the purchase price that
    is allocated to the value of future profits embedded in acquired
    insurance annuity and investment-type contracts in-force at the
    Acquisition Date.

The value of VODA and VOCRA, included in other assets, reflects
    the estimated fair value of ALICO s distribution agreements
    and customer relationships acquired at November 1, 2010 and
    will be amortized over the useful lives. Each year the Company
    will review VODA and VOCRA to determine the recoverability of
    these balances.

The use of discount rates was necessary to establish the fair
    value of VOBA and the identifiable intangibles. In selecting the
    appropriate discount rates, management considered its weighted
    average cost of capital, as well as the weighted average cost of
    capital required by market participants. The fair value of
    acquired liabilities was determined using risk free rates
    adjusted for a nonperformance risk premium. The nonperformance
    adjustment was determined by taking into consideration publicly
    available information relating to spreads in the secondary
    market for the Holding Company s debt, including related
    credit default swaps. These observable spreads were then
    adjusted to reflect the priority of these liabilities, the
    claims paying ability of the insurance subsidiaries compared to
    the Holding Company and, as necessary, the relative credit
    spreads of the liabilities  currencies of denomination as
    compared to USD spreads.

The fair values of business acquired, distribution agreements
    and customer relationships and the weighted average amortization
    periods are as follows as of November 1, 2010:

The estimated future amortization expense allocated to other
    expenses for the next five years for VOBA, VODA and VOCRA is
    $1,312 million in 2011, $1,076 million in 2012,
    $884 million in 2013, $759 million in 2014 and
    $653 million in 2015.

For certain acquired blocks of business, the estimated fair
    value of acquired liabilities exceeded the initial policy
    reserves assumed at November 1, 2010, resulting in a
    negative VOBA of $4.4 billion recorded at the Acquisition
    Date. Negative VOBA is recorded in other policy-related
    balances. The fair value of the in-force contract obligations
    was based on actuarially determined projections for each block
    of business. Negative VOBA is amortized over the policy period
    in proportion to premiums or the approximate consumption of
    losses included in the liability usually expressed in terms of
    insurance in-force or account value. Such amortization is
    recorded as a contra-expense in other expenses.

F-44

Table of Contents   

MetLife,
    Inc. 

Notes to
    the Consolidated Financial
    Statements   (Continued)  

Trademark
    Assets  

In connection with the Acquisition, the Company recognized
    $47 million in trademark assets recorded in other assets.
    The fair value of the trademark assets will be recognized
    ratably over their expected useful lives which is generally
    between five to ten years.

Indemnification
    Assets and Contingent Consideration  

The stock purchase agreement dated as of March 7, 2010, as
    amended by and among MetLife, Inc., AIG and ALICO Holdings (the
     Stock Purchase Agreement ) and related agreements
    include indemnification provisions that allocate the risk of
    losses arising out of contingencies or other uncertainties that
    existed as of the Acquisition Date in accordance with the terms,
    and subject to the limitations and procedures, provided by such
    provisions. As applicable, the Company recognizes an
    indemnification asset at the same time that it recognizes the
    indemnified item, measured on the same basis as the indemnified
    item. The Company recognized the following indemnification
    assets and contingencies as of the Acquisition Date in
    accordance with the indemnification provisions of the Stock
    Purchase Agreement and related agreements:

Investments    The Company established
    indemnification assets for the fair value of amounts expected to
    be recovered from defaults of certain fixed maturity securities,
    CMBS and mortgage loans. These indemnification assets are
    included in other invested assets at December 31, 2010.

Litigation    The Company established
    indemnification assets associated with certain settlements
    expected to be made in connection with the suspension of
    withdrawals from certain unit-linked funds offered to certain
    policyholders. These indemnification assets are included in
    other assets at December 31, 2010.

Section 338 Elections    MetLife, Inc. and
    American Life will be fully indemnified by ALICO Holdings for
    all taxes and any interest and penalties resulting from
    anticipated elections to be made with respect to American Life
    and its subsidiaries under Section 338(h)(10) and
    Section 338(g) of the Code. This indemnification asset is
    included in premiums, reinsurance and other receivables at
    December 31, 2010.

The Company recognized an aggregate amount of $574 million
    for indemnification assets as of the Acquisition Date in
    accordance with the indemnification provisions of the Stock
    Purchase Agreement and related agreements.

Contingent Consideration    American Life has
    guaranteed that the fair value of a fund of assets backing
    certain U.K. unit-linked contracts will have a value of at least
     1 per unit on July 1, 2012. In accordance with the
    provisions of the Stock Purchase Agreement if the shortfall
    between the aggregate guaranteed amount and the fair value of
    the fund exceeds  106 million AIG will pay the
    difference to American Life and conversely, if the shortfall at
    July 1, 2012 is less than  106 million ALICO will
    pay the difference to AIG. The Company believes that the fair
    value of the fund will equal or exceed the guaranteed amount by
    July 1, 2012. Therefore, the Company recognized a
    contingent consideration liability in the amount of
    $88 million as of the Acquisition Date which was included
    as additional purchase consideration in determining the amount
    paid for ALICO.

Indemnification
    Collateral  

ALICO Holdings may satisfy certain of its indemnification and
    other payment obligations by delivering cash, shares of stock or
    Equity Units issued by MetLife, Inc. in connection with the
    Acquisition. The Equity Units were deposited into an
    indemnification collateral account on the Acquisition Date as
    security for these obligations. This collateral will be released
    periodically over a
     30-month 
    period on each of the
     12-month, 
     24-month  and
     30-month 
    anniversaries of the Acquisition Date as follows: Equity Units
    with an aggregate stated amount of $1.0 billion (or such
    amount of net cash proceeds from the sale of Equity Units or
    other eligible collateral equal to such stated amount), less, on
    each such release date, specified reserve amounts, including,
    but not limited to, amounts

F-45

Table of Contents   

MetLife,
    Inc. 

Notes to
    the Consolidated Financial
    Statements   (Continued)  

necessary to satisfy then outstanding indemnification claims
    made by MetLife, Inc. However, if an AIG bankruptcy event
    occurs, any then remaining indemnification collateral will
    remain in the indemnification collateral account and will be
    released in part on each of the
     30-month, 
     36-month  and
     48-month 
    anniversaries of the Acquisition Date, less, on each such
    release date, any such specified reserved amounts.

Branch
    Restructuring  

On March 4, 2010, American Life entered into a closing
    agreement (the  Closing Agreement ) with the
    Commissioner of the IRS with respect to a U.S. withholding
    tax issue arising as a result of payments made by its foreign
    branches. The Closing Agreement provides that American
    Life s foreign branches will not be required to withhold
    U.S. income tax on the income portion of payments made
    pursuant to American Life s life insurance and annuity
    contracts ( Covered Payments ) for any tax periods
    beginning on January 1, 2005 and ending on
    December 31, 2013 (the  Deferral Period ). The
    Closing Agreement requires that American Life submit a plan to
    the IRS within 90 days after the close of the Acquisition,
    indicating the steps American Life will take (on a country by
    country basis) to ensure that no substantial amount of
    U.S. withholding tax will arise from Covered Payments made
    by American Life s foreign branches to foreign customers
    after the Deferral Period. Such plan, which was submitted to the
    Internal Revenue Service ( IRS ) on January 29,
    2011, involves the transfer of businesses from certain of the
    foreign branches of American Life to one or more existing or
    newly-formed subsidiaries of MetLife, Inc. or American Life.

A liability of $277 million was recognized in purchase
    accounting as of November 1, 2010, for the anticipated and
    estimated costs associated with restructuring American
    Life s foreign branches into subsidiaries in connection
    with the Closing Agreement.

Current
    and Deferred Income Tax  

The future tax effects of temporary differences between
    financial reporting and tax bases of assets and liabilities are
    measured at the balance sheet dates and are recorded as deferred
    income tax assets and liabilities, with certain exceptions such
    as certain temporary differences relating to goodwill under
    purchase accounting.

For federal income tax purposes, MetLife, Inc. and ALICO
    Holdings are expected to make Section 338 elections with
    respect to American Life and certain of its subsidiaries. In
    addition, MetLife, Inc. and AIG are expected to make a
    Section 338 election with respect to DelAm. Under such
    elections, the U.S. tax basis of the assets deemed acquired
    and liabilities assumed of ALICO were adjusted as of the
    Acquisition Date to reflect the consequences of the
    Section 338 elections.

The reversal of temporary differences (between financial
    reporting and U.S. tax bases of assets and liabilities) of
    American Life s foreign branches, post-branch
    restructuring, in connection with the Closing Agreement (i.e.,
    generally, after the end of the Deferral Period) is not expected
    to result in any direct U.S. tax effect. Thus, as of
    November 1, 2010, American Life reduced its net deferred
    tax asset of $425 million by $671 million that
    reflects the amount of U.S. deferred tax asset that is expected
    to reverse post-branch restructuring. Therefore, American Life
    recognized a U.S. net deferred tax liability of
    approximately $246 million in purchase accounting.

As of the Acquisition Date, ALICO s current and deferred
    income tax liabilities are provisional and not yet finalized.
    Current income taxes may be adjusted pending the resolution of
    the tax value of MetLife, Inc. securities delivered to ALICO
    Holdings as part of the purchase consideration on the
    Acquisition Date, the amount of taxes resulting from the
    Section 338 elections and the filing of income tax returns.
    Deferred income taxes may be adjusted as a result of changes in
    estimates and assumptions relating to the reversal of
    U.S. temporary differences prior to the completion of the
    anticipated restructuring of American Life s foreign
    branches, the filing of income tax returns and as additional
    information becomes available during the measurement period. We
    expect to finalize these amounts as soon as possible but no
    later than one year from the Acquisition Date.

F-46

Table of Contents   

MetLife,
    Inc. 

Notes to
    the Consolidated Financial
    Statements   (Continued)  

Revenues
    and Earnings of ALICO  

The following table presents information for ALICO that is
    included in the Company s consolidated statement of
    operations from the Acquisition Date through November 30,
    2010:

ALICO s Operations 

Included in MetLife s 

Results for the 

Year Ended December 31, 2010 

(In millions) 

Total revenues

$

950

Income (loss) from continuing operations, net of income tax

$

(2

)

Supplemental
    Pro Forma Information (unaudited)  

The following table presents unaudited supplemental pro forma
    information as if the Acquisition had occurred on
    January 1, 2010 for the year ended December 31, 2010
    and on January 1, 2009 for the year ended December 31,
    2009.

The pro forma information was derived from the historical
    financial information of MetLife and ALICO, reflecting the
    results of operations of MetLife and ALICO for 2010 and 2009.
    The historical financial information has been adjusted to give
    effect to the pro forma events that are directly attributable to
    the Acquisition and factually supportable and expected to have a
    continuing impact on the combined results. Discontinued
    operations and the related earnings per share have been excluded
    from the presentation as they are non-recurring in nature. The
    pro forma information is not intended to reflect the results of
    operations of the combined company that would have resulted had
    the Acquisition been effective during the periods presented or
    the results that may be obtained by the combined company in the
    future. The pro forma information does not reflect future events
    that may occur after the Acquisition, including, but not limited
    to, expense efficiencies or revenue enhancements arising from
    the Acquisition and also does not give effect to certain
    one-time charges that MetLife expects to incur such as
    restructuring and integration costs.

The pro forma information primarily reflects the following pro
    forma adjustments:

reduction in net investment income to reflect the amortization
    or accretion associated with the new cost basis of the acquired
    fixed maturities
     available-for-sale 
    portfolio;

elimination of amortization associated with the elimination of
    ALICO s historical DAC;

amortization of VOBA, VODA and VOCRA associated with the
    establishment of VOBA, VODA and VOCRA arising from the
    Acquisition;

reduction in other expenses associated with the amortization of
    negative VOBA;

reduction in revenues associated with the elimination of
    ALICO s historical unearned revenue liability;

F-47

Table of Contents   

MetLife,
    Inc. 

Notes to
    the Consolidated Financial
    Statements   (Continued)  

interest expense associated with the issuance of the Debt
    Securities to ALICO Holdings and the public issuance of senior
    notes in connection with the financing of the Acquisition;

certain adjustments to conform to MetLife s accounting
    policies; and

reversal of investment and derivative gains (losses) associated
    with certain transactions that were completed prior to the
    Acquisition Date (conditions of closing).

Costs
    Related to Acquisition  

Transaction and Integration-Related
    Expenses.   The Company incurred $100 million
    of transaction costs for the year ended December 31, 2010.
    Transaction costs represent costs directly related to effecting
    the Acquisition and primarily include banking and legal
    expenses. Such costs have been expensed as incurred and are
    included in other expenses. These expenses have been reported
    within Banking, Corporate   Other.

Integration-related expenses incurred for the year ended
    December 31, 2010 and included in other expenses were
    $176 million. Integration costs represent incremental costs
    directly related to integrating ALICO, including expenses for
    consulting, rebranding and the integration of information
    systems. As the integration of ALICO is an enterprise-wide
    initiative, these expenses have been reported within Banking,
    Corporate   Other.

Restructuring Costs and Other Charges.   As part
    of the integration of ALICO s operations, management has
    initiated restructuring plans focused on increasing productivity
    and improving the efficiency of the Company s operations.
    For the year ended December 31, 2010, the Company
    recognized a severance-related restructuring charge of
    $4 million associated with the termination of certain
    employees in connection with this initiative which were
    reflected within other expenses. The Company did not make any
    cash payments related to these severance costs as of
    December 31, 2010.

Estimated restructuring costs may change as management continues
    to execute its restructuring plans. Management anticipates
    further restructuring charges including severance, contract
    termination costs and other associated costs through the year
    ended December 31, 2011. However, such restructuring plans
    are not sufficiently developed to enable the Company to make an
    estimate of such restructuring charges at December 31, 2010.

2010
    Pending Disposition   

In October 2010, the Company and its joint venture partner,
    MS AD Insurance Group Holdings, Inc.
    ( MS AD ), reached an agreement under which the
    Company intends to sell its 50% interest in Mitsui Sumitomo
    MetLife Insurance Co., Ltd. ( MSI MetLife ), a Japan
    domiciled life insurance company, to MS AD for
    approximately $275 million
    (   22.5 billion). During the year ended
    December 31, 2010, the Company recorded an investment loss
    of $136 million, net of income tax, to record its
    investment in MSI MetLife at its estimated recoverable amount.
    It is anticipated that the sale will close on or about
    April 1, 2011, subject to customary closing conditions,
    including obtaining required regulatory approvals.

2009
    Disposition   

In March 2009, the Company sold Cova Corporation
    ( Cova ), the parent company of Texas Life Insurance
    Company ( Texas Life ) to a third-party for
    $130 million in cash consideration, excluding
    $1 million of transaction costs. The net assets sold were
    $101 million, resulting in a gain on disposal of
    $28 million, net of income tax. The Company also
    reclassified $4 million, net of income tax, of the 2009
    operations of Texas Life into discontinued operations in the
    consolidated financial statements. As a result, the Company
    recognized income from discontinued operations of
    $32 million, net of income tax, during the year ended
    December 31, 2009. See Note 23.

F-48

Table of Contents   

MetLife,
    Inc. 

Notes to
    the Consolidated Financial
    Statements   (Continued)  

2009
    Disposition through Assumption Reinsurance   

On October 30, 2009, the Company completed the disposal,
    through assumption reinsurance, of substantially all of the
    insurance business of MetLife Canada, a wholly-owned indirect
    subsidiary, to a third-party. Pursuant to the assumption
    reinsurance agreement, the consideration paid by the Company was
    $259 million, comprised of cash of $14 million and
    fixed maturity securities, mortgage loans and other assets
    totaling $245 million. At the date of the assumption
    reinsurance agreement, the carrying value of insurance
    liabilities transferred was $267 million, resulting in a
    gain of $5 million, net of income tax. The gain was
    recognized in net investment gains (losses).

2008
    Acquisitions and Disposition   

During 2008, the Company made five acquisitions for
    $783 million. As a result of these acquisitions,
    MetLife s Insurance Products segment increased its product
    offering of dental and vision benefit plans, MetLife Bank,
    National Association ( MetLife Bank ) within Banking,
    Corporate   Other entered the mortgage origination and
    servicing business and the International segment increased its
    presence in Mexico and Brazil. The acquisitions were each
    accounted for using the purchase method of accounting and,
    accordingly, commenced being included in the operating results
    of the Company upon their respective closing dates. Total
    consideration paid by the Company for these acquisitions
    consisted of $763 million in cash and $20 million in
    transaction costs. The net fair value of assets acquired and
    liabilities assumed totaled $527 million, resulting in
    goodwill of $256 million. Goodwill increased by
    $122 million, $73 million and $61 million in the
    International segment, Insurance Products segment and Banking,
    Corporate   Other, respectively. The goodwill is
    deductible for tax purposes. VOCRA, VOBA and other intangibles
    increased by $137 million, $7 million and
    $6 million, respectively, as a result of these
    acquisitions. Further information on VOBA, goodwill and VOCRA is
    provided in Notes 6, 7 and 8, respectively.

In September 2008, the Company completed a tax-free split-off of
    its majority-owned subsidiary, Reinsurance Group of America,
    Incorporated ( RGA ). The Company and RGA entered into
    a recapitalization and distribution agreement, pursuant to which
    the Company agreed to divest substantially all of its 52%
    interest in RGA to the Company s stockholders. The
    split-off was effected through the following:

A recapitalization of RGA common stock into two classes of
    common stock   RGA Class A common stock and RGA
    Class B common stock. Pursuant to the terms of the
    recapitalization, each outstanding share of RGA common stock,
    including the 32,243,539 shares of RGA common stock
    beneficially owned by the Company and its subsidiaries, was
    reclassified as one share of RGA Class A common stock.
    Immediately thereafter, the Company and its subsidiaries
    exchanged 29,243,539 shares of its RGA Class A common
    stock   which represented all of the RGA Class A
    common stock beneficially owned by the Company and its
    subsidiaries other than 3,000,000 shares of RGA
    Class A common stock   with RGA for
    29,243,539 shares of RGA Class B common stock.

An exchange offer, pursuant to which the Company offered to
    acquire MetLife common stock from its stockholders in exchange
    for all of its 29,243,539 shares of RGA Class B common
    stock. The exchange ratio was determined based upon a ratio of
    the value of the MetLife and RGA shares during the
     three-day 
    period prior to the closing of the exchange offer. The
    3,000,000 shares of the RGA Class A common stock were
    not subject to the tax-free exchange.

As a result of completion of the recapitalization and exchange
    offer, the Company received from MetLife stockholders
    23,093,689 shares of the Holding Company s common
    stock with a market value of $1,318 million and, in
    exchange, delivered 29,243,539 shares of RGA s
    Class B common stock with a net book value of
    $1,716 million. The resulting loss on disposition,
    inclusive of transaction costs of $60 million, was
    $458 million. During the third quarter of 2009, the Company
    incurred $2 million, net of income tax, of additional costs
    related to this split-off. The 3,000,000 shares of RGA
    Class A common stock retained by the Company are marketable
    equity securities which do not constitute significant continuing
    involvement in the operations of RGA; accordingly, they were
    classified within equity securities in the consolidated
    financial statements of the Company at a cost basis of

F-49

Table of Contents   

MetLife,
    Inc. 

Notes to
    the Consolidated Financial
    Statements   (Continued)  

$157 million which is equivalent to the net book value of
    the shares. The equity securities have been recorded at fair
    value at each subsequent reporting date. The Company agreed to
    dispose of the remaining shares of RGA within the next five
    years. In connection with the Company s agreement to
    dispose of the remaining shares, the Company also recognized, in
    its provision for income tax on continuing operations, a
    deferred tax liability of $16 million which represents the
    difference between the book and taxable basis of the remaining
    investment in RGA. On February 15, 2011, the Company sold to RGA
    such remaining shares. The impact of the disposition of the
    Company s investment in RGA was reflected in the
    Company s consolidated financial statements as discontinued
    operations. See Note 23.

3.    

Investments  

Fixed
    Maturity and Equity Securities
     Available-for-Sale    

The following tables present the cost or amortized cost, gross
    unrealized gain and loss, estimated fair value of the
    Company s fixed maturity and equity securities and the
    percentage that each sector represents by the respective total
    holdings for the periods shown. The unrealized loss amounts
    presented below include the noncredit loss component of OTTI
    loss:

F-50

Table of Contents   

MetLife,
    Inc. 

Notes to
    the Consolidated Financial
    Statements   (Continued)  

(1)  

The Company has classified within the U.S. Treasury, agency and
    government guaranteed securities caption certain corporate fixed
    maturity securities issued by U.S. financial institutions that
    were guaranteed by the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation
    ( FDIC ) pursuant to the FDIC s Temporary
    Liquidity Guarantee Program ( FDIC Program ) of
    $223 million and $407 million at estimated fair value
    with unrealized gains of $4 million and $2 million at
    December 31, 2010 and 2009, respectively. 

(2)  

Upon acquisition, the Company classifies perpetual securities
    that have attributes of both debt and equity as fixed maturity
    securities if the security has an interest rate
     step-up 
    feature which, when combined with other qualitative factors,
    indicates that the security has more debt-like characteristics.
    The Company classifies perpetual securities with an interest
    rate  step-up 
    feature which, when combined with other qualitative factors,
    indicates that the security has more equity-like
    characteristics, as equity securities within non-redeemable
    preferred stock. Many of such securities have been issued by
     non-U.S. 
    financial institutions that are accorded Tier 1 and Upper
    Tier 2 capital treatment by their respective regulatory
    bodies and are commonly referred to as  perpetual hybrid
    securities.  The following table presents the perpetual
    hybrid securities held by the Company at: 

December 31, 

2010 

2009 

Estimated 

Estimated 

Classification 

Fair 

Fair 

Consolidated Balance Sheets 

Sector Table 

Primary Issuers 

Value 

Value 

(In millions) 

Equity securities

Non-redeemable preferred stock

Non-U.S. financial institutions

$

1,046

$

988

Equity securities

Non-redeemable preferred stock

U.S. financial institutions

$

236

$

349

Fixed maturity securities

Foreign corporate securities

Non-U.S. financial institutions

$

2,038

$

2,626

Fixed maturity securities

U.S. corporate securities

U.S. financial institutions

$

83

$

91

F-51

Table of Contents   

MetLife,
    Inc. 

Notes to
    the Consolidated Financial
    Statements   (Continued)  

(3)  

The Company s holdings in redeemable preferred stock with
    stated maturity dates, commonly referred to as  capital
    securities , were primarily issued by U.S. financial
    institutions and have cumulative interest deferral features. The
    Company held $2.7 billion and $2.5 billion at
    estimated fair value of such securities at December 31,
    2010 and 2009, respectively, which are included in the U.S. and
    foreign corporate securities sectors within fixed maturity
    securities. 

(4)  

Equity securities primarily consist of investments in common and
    preferred stocks, including certain perpetual hybrid securities
    and mutual fund interests. Privately-held equity securities were
    $1.3 billion and $1.0 billion at estimated fair value
    at December 31, 2010 and 2009, respectively. 

The Company held foreign currency derivatives with notional
    amounts of $12.2 billion and $9.1 billion to hedge the
    exchange rate risk associated with foreign denominated fixed
    maturity securities at December 31, 2010 and 2009,
    respectively.

The below investment grade and non-income producing amounts
    presented below are based on rating agency designations and
    equivalent designations of the National Association of Insurance
    Commissioners ( NAIC ), with the exception of certain
    structured securities described below held by the Company s
    insurance subsidiaries that file NAIC statutory financial
    statements. Non-agency RMBS, including RMBS backed by
     sub-prime 
    mortgage loans reported within ABS, CMBS and all other ABS held
    by the Company s insurance subsidiaries that file NAIC
    statutory financial statements are presented based on final
    ratings from the revised NAIC rating methodologies which became
    effective December 31, 2009 for non-agency RMBS, including
    RMBS backed by
     sub-prime 
    mortgage loans reported within ABS, and December 31, 2010
    for CMBS and the remaining ABS (which may not correspond to
    rating agency designations). All NAIC designation (e.g., NAIC
    1   6) amounts and percentages presented herein
    are based on the revised NAIC methodologies. All rating agency
    designation (e.g., Aaa/AAA) amounts and percentages presented
    herein are based on rating agency designations without
    adjustment for the revised NAIC methodologies described above.
    Rating agency designations are based on availability of
    applicable ratings from rating agencies on the NAIC acceptable
    rating organization list, including Moody s Investors
    Service ( Moody s ), S P and Fitch Ratings
    ( Fitch ).

The following table presents selected information about certain
    fixed maturity securities held by the Company at:

Concentrations of Credit Risk (Fixed Maturity
    Securities)   Summary.   The following
    section contains a summary of the concentrations of credit risk
    related to fixed maturity securities holdings.

The Company was not exposed to any concentrations of credit risk
    of any single issuer greater than 10% of the Company s
    equity, other than the government securities summarized in the
    table below. The estimated fair value of the Company s
    holdings in sovereign fixed maturity securities of Portugal,
    Ireland, Italy, Greece and Spain, commonly referred to as
     Europe s perimeter region,  was
    $1,562 million and $6 million prior to, and was
    $1,392 million and $6 million, after considering net
    purchased credit default swap protection at December 31,
    2010 and 2009, respectively. Collectively, the net exposure in
    these Europe perimeter region sovereign fixed maturity
    securities was 2.8% of the Company s equity and 0.3% of
    total cash and invested assets at December 31, 2010.

F-52

Table of Contents   

MetLife,
    Inc. 

Notes to
    the Consolidated Financial
    Statements   (Continued)  

(1)  

Includes certain corporate fixed maturity securities guaranteed
    by the FDIC Program, as described above. 

Concentrations of Credit Risk (Fixed Maturity
    Securities)   U.S. and Foreign Corporate
    Securities.   The Company maintains a diversified
    portfolio of corporate fixed maturity securities across
    industries and issuers. This portfolio does not have an exposure
    to any single issuer in excess of 1% of total investments. The
    tables below present for all corporate fixed maturity securities
    holdings, corporate securities by sector, U.S. corporate
    securities by major industry types, the largest exposure to a
    single issuer and the combined holdings in the ten issuers to
    which it had the largest exposure at:

(1)  

Includes U.S. dollar-denominated debt obligations of foreign
    obligors and other foreign fixed maturity securities. 

F-53

Table of Contents   

MetLife,
    Inc. 

Notes to
    the Consolidated Financial
    Statements   (Continued)  

Concentrations of Credit Risk (Fixed Maturity
    Securities)   RMBS.   The table below
    presents the Company s RMBS holdings and portion rated
    Aaa/AAA and portion rated NAIC 1 at:

Pass-through mortgage-backed securities are a type of
    asset-backed security that is secured by a mortgage or
    collection of mortgages. The monthly mortgage payments from
    homeowners pass from the originating bank through an
    intermediary, such as a government agency or investment bank,
    which collects the payments, and for a fee, remits or passes
    these payments through to the holders of the pass-through
    securities. Collateralized mortgage obligations are a type of
    mortgage-backed security structured by dividing the cash flows
    of mortgages into separate pools or tranches of risk that create
    multiple classes of bonds with varying maturities and priority
    of payments.

Prime residential mortgage lending includes the origination of
    residential mortgage loans to the most creditworthy borrowers
    with high quality credit profiles. Alternative residential
    mortgage loans ( Alt-A ) are a classification of
    mortgage loans where the risk profile of the borrower falls
    between prime and
     sub-prime. 
     Sub-prime 
    mortgage lending is the origination of residential mortgage
    loans to borrowers with weak credit profiles. Included within
    Alt-A RMBS are resecuritization of real estate mortgage
    investment conduit ( Re-REMIC ) securities. Re-REMIC
    Alt-A RMBS involve the pooling of previous issues of Alt-A RMBS
    and restructuring the combined pools to create new senior and
    subordinated securities. The credit enhancement on the senior
    tranches is improved through the resecuritization. The
    Company s holdings are in senior tranches with significant
    credit enhancement.

F-54

Table of Contents   

MetLife,
    Inc. 

Notes to
    the Consolidated Financial
    Statements   (Continued)  

The following tables present the Company s investment in
    Alt-A RMBS by vintage year (vintage year refers to the year of
    origination and not to the year of purchase) and certain other
    selected data:

Concentrations of Credit Risk (Fixed Maturity
    Securities)   CMBS.   The Company s
    holdings in CMBS were $20.7 billion and $15.6 billion
    at estimated fair value at December 31, 2010 and 2009,
    respectively. The Company had no exposure to CMBS index
    securities at December 31, 2010 or 2009. The Company held
    commercial real estate collateralized debt obligations
    securities of $138 million and $111 million at
    estimated fair value at December 31, 2010 and 2009,
    respectively.

F-55

Table of Contents   

MetLife,
    Inc. 

Notes to
    the Consolidated Financial
    Statements   (Continued)  

The following tables present the Company s holdings of CMBS
    by rating agency designation and by vintage year at:

The December 31, 2010 table reflects rating agency
    designations assigned by nationally recognized rating agencies
    including Moody s, S P, Fitch and Realpoint, LLC.

The December 31, 2009 table reflects rating agency
    designations assigned by nationally recognized rating agencies
    including Moody s, S P and Fitch.

F-56

Table of Contents   

MetLife,
    Inc. 

Notes to
    the Consolidated Financial
    Statements   (Continued)  

The NAIC rating distribution of the Company s holdings of
    CMBS was as follows at:

Concentrations of Credit Risk (Fixed Maturity
    Securities)   ABS.   The Company s
    holdings in ABS were $14.3 billion and $13.2 billion
    at estimated fair value at December 31, 2010 and 2009,
    respectively. The Company s ABS are diversified both by
    collateral type and by issuer.

The following table presents the collateral type and certain
    other information about ABS held by the Company at:

The Company had ABS supported by
     sub-prime 
    mortgage loans with estimated fair values of $1,119 million
    and $1,044 million and unrealized losses of
    $317 million and $593 million at December 31,
    2010 and 2009, respectively. Approximately 54% of this portfolio
    was rated Aa or better, of which 88% was in vintage year 2005
    and prior at December 31, 2010. Approximately 61% of this
    portfolio was rated Aa or better, of which 91% was in vintage
    year 2005 and prior at December 31, 2009. These older
    vintages from 2005 and prior benefit from better underwriting,
    improved enhancement levels and higher residential property
    price appreciation. Approximately 66% and 73% of this portfolio
    was rated NAIC 2 or better at December 31, 2010 and 2009,
    respectively.

Concentrations of Credit Risk (Equity
    Securities).   The Company was not exposed to any
    concentrations of credit risk in its equity securities holdings
    of any single issuer greater than 10% of the Company s
    equity or 1% of total investments at December 31, 2010 and
    2009.

F-57

Table of Contents   

MetLife,
    Inc. 

Notes to
    the Consolidated Financial
    Statements   (Continued)  

Maturities of Fixed Maturity Securities.   The
    amortized cost and estimated fair value of fixed maturity
    securities, by contractual maturity date (excluding scheduled
    sinking funds), were as follows at:

Actual maturities may differ from contractual maturities due to
    the exercise of call or prepayment options. Fixed maturity
    securities not due at a single maturity date have been included
    in the above table in the year of final contractual maturity.
    RMBS, CMBS and ABS are shown separately in the table, as they
    are not due at a single maturity.

As discussed further in Note 2, an indemnification asset
    has been established in connection with certain investments
    acquired from American Life.

Evaluating
     Available-for-Sale 
    Securities for
     Other-Than-Temporary 
    Impairment   

As described more fully in Note 1, the Company performs a
    regular evaluation, on a
     security-by-security 
    basis, of its
     available-for-sale 
    securities holdings, including fixed maturity securities, equity
    securities and perpetual hybrid securities, in accordance with
    its impairment policy in order to evaluate whether such
    investments are
     other-than-temporarily 
    impaired. As described more fully in Note 1, effective
    April 1, 2009, the Company adopted OTTI guidance that
    amends the methodology for determining for fixed maturity
    securities whether an OTTI exists, and for certain fixed
    maturity securities, changes how the amount of the OTTI loss
    that is charged to earnings is determined. There was no change
    in the OTTI methodology for equity securities.

F-58

Table of Contents   

MetLife,
    Inc. 

Notes to
    the Consolidated Financial
    Statements   (Continued)  

Net
    Unrealized Investment Gains (Losses)   

The components of net unrealized investment gains (losses),
    included in accumulated other comprehensive income (loss), were
    as follows:

Fixed maturity securities with noncredit OTTI losses in
    accumulated other comprehensive income (loss), as presented
    above of ($601) million at December 31, 2010, includes
    ($859) million recognized prior to January 1, 2010,
    ($212) million (($202) million, net of DAC) of
    noncredit OTTI losses recognized in the year ended
    December 31, 2010, $16 million transferred to retained
    earnings in connection with the adoption of guidance related to
    the consolidation of VIEs (see Note 1) for the year
    ended December 31, 2010, $137 million related to
    securities sold during the year ended December 31, 2010 for
    which a noncredit OTTI loss was previously recognized in
    accumulated other comprehensive income (loss) and
    $317 million of subsequent increases in estimated fair
    value during the year ended December 31, 2010 on such
    securities for which a noncredit OTTI loss was previously
    recognized in accumulated other comprehensive income (loss).

Fixed maturity securities with noncredit OTTI losses in
    accumulated other comprehensive income (loss), as presented
    above of ($859) million at December 31, 2009, includes
    ($126) million related to the transition adjustment
    recorded in 2009 upon the adoption of guidance on the
    recognition and presentation of OTTI, ($939) million
    (($857) million, net of DAC) of noncredit OTTI losses
    recognized in the year ended December 31, 2009 (as more
    fully described in Note 1), $20 million related to
    securities sold during the year ended December 31, 2009 for
    which a noncredit OTTI loss was previously recognized in
    accumulated comprehensive income (loss) and $186 million of
    subsequent increases in estimated fair value during the year

F-59

Table of Contents   

MetLife,
    Inc. 

Notes to
    the Consolidated Financial
    Statements   (Continued)  

ended December 31, 2009 on such securities for which a
    noncredit OTTI loss was previously recognized in accumulated
    other comprehensive income (loss).

The changes in net unrealized investment gains (losses) were as
    follows:

Continuous
    Gross Unrealized Loss and OTTI Loss for Fixed Maturity and
    Equity Securities
     Available-for-Sale 
    by Sector   

The following tables present the estimated fair value and gross
    unrealized loss of the Company s fixed maturity and equity
    securities in an unrealized loss position, aggregated by sector
    and by length of time that the securities have been in a
    continuous unrealized loss position. The unrealized loss amounts
    presented below include the noncredit component of OTTI loss.
    Fixed maturity securities on which a noncredit OTTI loss has
    been

F-60

Table of Contents   

MetLife,
    Inc. 

Notes to
    the Consolidated Financial
    Statements   (Continued)  

recognized in accumulated other comprehensive income (loss) are
    categorized by length of time as being  less than
    12 months  or  equal to or greater than
    12 months  in a continuous unrealized loss position
    based on the point in time that the estimated fair value
    initially declined to below the amortized cost basis and not the
    period of time since the unrealized loss was deemed a noncredit
    OTTI loss.

F-61

Table of Contents   

MetLife,
    Inc. 

Notes to
    the Consolidated Financial
    Statements   (Continued)  

F-62

Table of Contents   

MetLife,
    Inc. 

Notes to
    the Consolidated Financial
    Statements   (Continued)  

Aging
    of Gross Unrealized Loss and OTTI Loss for Fixed Maturity and
    Equity Securities
     Available-for-Sale    

The following tables present the cost or amortized cost, gross
    unrealized loss, including the portion of OTTI loss on fixed
    maturity securities recognized in accumulated other
    comprehensive income (loss), gross unrealized loss as a
    percentage of cost or amortized cost and number of securities
    for fixed maturity and equity securities where the estimated
    fair value had declined and remained below cost or amortized
    cost by less than 20%, or 20% or more at:

F-63

Table of Contents   

MetLife,
    Inc. 

Notes to
    the Consolidated Financial
    Statements   (Continued)  

Equity securities with a gross unrealized loss of 20% or more
    for twelve months or greater decreased from $138 million at
    December 31, 2009 to $116 million at December 31,
    2010. As shown in the section    Evaluating
    Temporarily Impaired
     Available-for-Sale 
    Securities  below, the $116 million of equity
    securities with a gross unrealized loss of 20% or more for
    twelve months or greater at December 31, 2010 were
    non-redeemable preferred stock, of which $115 million, or
    99%, were financial services industry investment grade
    non-redeemable preferred stock, of which 77% were rated A or
    better.

F-64

Table of Contents   

MetLife,
    Inc. 

Notes to
    the Consolidated Financial
    Statements   (Continued)  

Concentration
    of Gross Unrealized Loss and OTTI Loss for Fixed Maturity and
    Equity Securities
     Available-for-Sale    

The Company s gross unrealized losses related to its fixed
    maturity and equity securities, including the portion of OTTI
    loss on fixed maturity securities recognized in accumulated
    other comprehensive income (loss) of $6.9 billion and
    $10.8 billion at December 31, 2010 and 2009,
    respectively, were concentrated, calculated as a percentage of
    gross unrealized loss and OTTI loss, by sector and industry as
    follows:

F-65

Table of Contents   

MetLife,
    Inc. 

Notes to
    the Consolidated Financial
    Statements   (Continued)  

Evaluating
    Temporarily Impaired
     Available-for-Sale 
    Securities   

The following table presents the Company s fixed maturity
    and equity securities, each with a gross unrealized loss of
    greater than $10 million, the number of securities, total
    gross unrealized loss and percentage of total gross unrealized
    loss at:

Fixed maturity and equity securities, each with a gross
    unrealized loss greater than $10 million, decreased
    $2.5 billion during the year ended December 31, 2010.
    The cause of the decline in, or improvement in, gross unrealized
    losses for the year ended December 31, 2010, was primarily
    attributable to a decrease in interest rates and narrowing of
    credit spreads. These securities were included in the
    Company s OTTI review process. Based upon the
    Company s current evaluation of these securities and other
     available-for-sale 
    securities in an unrealized loss position in accordance with its
    impairment policy, and the Company s current intentions and
    assessments (as applicable to the type of security) about
    holding, selling and any requirements to sell these securities,
    the Company has concluded that these securities are not
     other-than-temporarily 
    impaired.

In the Company s impairment review process, the duration
    and severity of an unrealized loss position for equity
    securities is given greater weight and consideration than for
    fixed maturity securities. An extended and severe unrealized
    loss position on a fixed maturity security may not have any
    impact on the ability of the issuer to service all scheduled
    interest and principal payments and the Company s
    evaluation of recoverability of all contractual cash flows or
    the ability to recover an amount at least equal to its amortized
    cost based on the present value of the expected future cash
    flows to be collected. In contrast, for an equity security,
    greater weight and consideration is given by the Company to a
    decline in market value and the likelihood such market value
    decline will recover.

The following table presents certain information about the
    Company s equity securities
     available-for-sale 
    with a gross unrealized loss of 20% or more at December 31,
    2010:

In connection with the equity securities impairment review
    process, the Company evaluated its holdings in non-redeemable
    preferred stock, particularly those companies in the financial
    services industry. The Company considered several factors
    including whether there has been any deterioration in credit of
    the issuer and the likelihood of recovery in value of
    non-redeemable preferred stock with a severe or an extended
    unrealized loss. The

F-66

Table of Contents   

MetLife,
    Inc. 

Notes to
    the Consolidated Financial
    Statements   (Continued)  

Company also considered whether any issuers of non-redeemable
    preferred stock with an unrealized loss held by the Company,
    regardless of credit rating, have deferred any dividend
    payments. No such dividend payments had been deferred.

With respect to common stock holdings, the Company considered
    the duration and severity of the unrealized losses for
    securities in an unrealized loss position of 20% or more; and
    the duration of unrealized losses for securities in an
    unrealized loss position of less than 20% in an extended
    unrealized loss position (i.e., 12 months or greater).

Future OTTIs will depend primarily on economic fundamentals,
    issuer performance (including changes in the present value of
    future cash flows expected to be collected), changes in credit
    rating, changes in collateral valuation, changes in interest
    rates and changes in credit spreads. If economic fundamentals
    and any of the above factors deteriorate, additional OTTIs may
    be incurred in upcoming quarters.

Net
    Investment Gains (Losses)   

See    Evaluating
     Available-for-Sale 
    Securities for
     Other-Than-Temporary 
    Impairment  for a discussion of changes in guidance adopted
    April 1, 2009 that impacted how fixed maturity security
    OTTI losses that are charged to earnings are measured.

The components of net investment gains (losses) were as follows:

(1)  

Other gains (losses) for the year ended December 31, 2010
    includes a loss of $209 million related to recording the
    Company s investment in MSI MetLife at its estimated
    recoverable amount. See Note 2. 

F-67

Table of Contents   

MetLife,
    Inc. 

Notes to
    the Consolidated Financial
    Statements   (Continued)  

See    Variable Interest Entities  for
    discussion of CSEs included in the table above.

Gains (losses) from foreign currency transactions included
    within net investment gains (losses) were $246 million,
    $226 million and $363 million for the years ended
    December 31, 2010, 2009 and 2008, respectively.

Proceeds from sales or disposals of fixed maturity and equity
    securities and the components of fixed maturity and equity
    securities net investment gains (losses) were as shown below.
    Investment gains and losses on sales of securities are
    determined on a specific identification basis.

(1)  

Other OTTI losses recognized in earnings include impairments on
    equity securities, impairments on perpetual hybrid securities
    classified within fixed maturity securities where the primary
    reason for the impairment was the severity and/or the duration
    of an unrealized loss position and fixed maturity securities
    where there is an intent to sell or it is more likely than not
    that the Company will be required to sell the security before
    recovery of the decline in estimated fair value. 

F-68

Table of Contents   

MetLife,
    Inc. 

Notes to
    the Consolidated Financial
    Statements   (Continued)  

Fixed maturity security OTTI losses recognized in earnings
    related to the following sectors and industries within the
    U.S. and foreign corporate securities sector:

Equity security OTTI losses recognized in earnings related to
    the following sectors and industries:

F-69

Table of Contents   

MetLife,
    Inc. 

Notes to
    the Consolidated Financial
    Statements   (Continued)  

Credit
    Loss Rollforward   Rollforward of the Cumulative
    Credit Loss Component of OTTI Loss Recognized in Earnings on
    Fixed Maturity Securities Still Held for Which a Portion of the
    OTTI Loss Was Recognized in Other Comprehensive Income
    (Loss)   

The table below presents a rollforward of the cumulative credit
    loss component of OTTI loss recognized in earnings on fixed
    maturity securities still held by the Company at
    December 31, 2010 and 2009, respectively, for which a
    portion of the OTTI loss was recognized in other comprehensive
    income (loss):

Years Ended December 31, 

2010 

2009 

(In millions) 

Balance, at January 1,

$

581

$

Credit loss component of OTTI loss not reclassified to other
    comprehensive income (loss) in the cumulative effect transition
    adjustment

230

Additions:

Initial impairments   credit loss OTTI recognized on
    securities not previously impaired

109

311

Additional impairments   credit loss OTTI recognized
    on securities previously impaired

125

91

Reductions:

Due to sales (maturities, pay downs or prepayments) during the
    period of securities previously credit loss OTTI impaired

(260

)

(49

)

Due to securities de-recognized in connection with the adoption
    of new guidance related to the consolidation of VIEs

(100

)

Due to securities impaired to net present value of expected
    future cash flows

(2

)

Due to increases in cash flows   accretion of previous
    credit loss OTTI

(10

)

(2

)

Balance, at December 31,

$

443

$

581

F-70

Table of Contents   

MetLife,
    Inc. 

Notes to
    the Consolidated Financial
    Statements   (Continued)  

Net
    Investment Income   

The components of net investment income were as follows:

(1)  

Amounts are presented net of changes in estimated fair value of
    derivatives related to economic hedges of the Company s
    investment in these equity method international joint venture
    investments that do not qualify for hedge accounting of
    $36 million, ($143) million and $178 million for
    the years ended December 31, 2010, 2009 and 2008,
    respectively. 

See    Variable Interest Entities  for
    discussion of CSEs included in the table above.

Securities
    Lending   

The Company participates in securities lending programs whereby
    blocks of securities, which are included in fixed maturity
    securities and short-term investments, are loaned to third
    parties, primarily brokerage firms and commercial banks. The
    Company generally obtains collateral, generally cash, in an
    amount equal to 102% of the estimated fair value of the
    securities loaned, which is obtained at the inception of a loan
    and maintained at a level greater than or equal to 100% for the
    duration of the loan. Securities loaned under such transactions
    may be sold or repledged by the transferee. The Company is
    liable to return to its counterparties the cash collateral under
    its control. These transactions are treated as financing
    arrangements and the associated liability is recorded at the
    amount of the cash received.

F-71

Table of Contents   

MetLife,
    Inc. 

Notes to
    the Consolidated Financial
    Statements   (Continued)  

Elements of the securities lending programs are presented below
    at:

(1)  

Open   meaning that the related loaned security could
    be returned to the Company on the next business day requiring
    the Company to immediately return the cash collateral. 

The estimated fair value of the securities on loan related to
    the cash collateral on open at December 31, 2010 was $2.7
    billion, of which $2.3 billion were U.S. Treasury, agency
    and government guaranteed securities which, if put to the
    Company, can be immediately sold to satisfy the cash
    requirements. The remainder of the securities on loan were
    primarily U.S. Treasury, agency and government guaranteed
    securities, and very liquid RMBS. The reinvestment portfolio
    acquired with the cash collateral consisted principally of fixed
    maturity securities (including RMBS, U.S. corporate,
    U.S. Treasury, agency and government guaranteed and ABS).

Security collateral on deposit from counterparties in connection
    with the securities lending transactions may not be sold or
    repledged, unless the counterparty is in default, and is not
    reflected in the consolidated financial statements. Separately,
    the Company had $49 million and $46 million, at
    estimated fair value, of cash and security collateral on deposit
    from a counterparty to secure its interest in a pooled
    investment that is held by a third-party trustee, as custodian,
    at December 31, 2010 and 2009, respectively. This pooled
    investment is included within fixed maturity securities and had
    an estimated fair value of $49 million and $51 million
    at December 31, 2010 and 2009, respectively.

F-72

Table of Contents   

MetLife,
    Inc. 

Notes to
    the Consolidated Financial
    Statements   (Continued)  

Invested
    Assets on Deposit, Held in Trust and Pledged as
    Collateral   

The invested assets on deposit, invested assets held in trust
    and invested assets pledged as collateral are presented in the
    table below. The amounts presented in the table below are at
    estimated fair value for cash and cash equivalents, short-term
    investments, fixed maturity, equity, trading and other
    securities and at carrying value for mortgage loans.

(1)  

The Company has investment assets on deposit with regulatory
    agencies consisting primarily of cash and cash equivalents,
    short-term investments, fixed maturity securities and equity
    securities. 

(2)  

The Company held in trust cash and securities, primarily fixed
    maturity and equity securities, to satisfy collateral
    requirements. 

(3)  

The Company held in trust certain investments, primarily fixed
    maturity securities, in connection with certain reinsurance
    transactions. 

(4)  

The Company has pledged fixed maturity securities and mortgage
    loans in support of its funding agreements with, and advances
    from, the Federal Home Loan Bank of New York ( FHLB of
    NY ) and has pledged fixed maturity securities in support
    of its funding agreements with the Federal Home Loan Bank of
    Boston ( FHLB of Boston ). The nature of these Federal
    Home Loan Bank arrangements is described in Notes 8 and 11. 

(5)  

The Company has pledged certain agricultural mortgage loans in
    connection with funding agreements issued to certain SPEs that
    have issued securities guaranteed by the Federal Agricultural
    Mortgage Corporation ( Farmer Mac ). The nature of
    these Farmer Mac arrangements is described in Note 8. 

(6)  

The Company has pledged qualifying mortgage loans and fixed
    maturity securities in connection with collateralized borrowings
    from the Federal Reserve Bank of New York s Term Auction
    Facility. The nature of the Federal Reserve Bank of New York
    arrangements is described in Note 11. 

(7)  

The Holding Company has pledged certain collateral in support of
    the collateral financing arrangements described in Note 12. 

(8)  

Certain of the Company s invested assets are pledged as
    collateral for various derivative transactions as described in
    Note 4. 

F-73

Table of Contents   

MetLife,
    Inc. 

Notes to
    the Consolidated Financial
    Statements   (Continued)  

(9)  

Certain of the Company s Actively Traded Securities and
    cash and cash equivalents are pledged to secure liabilities
    associated with short sale agreements in the Actively Traded
    Securities portfolio. 

See also    Securities Lending  for the
    amount of the Company s cash received from and due back to
    counterparties pursuant to the Company s securities lending
    program. See    Variable Interest Entities 
    for assets of certain CSEs that can only be used to settle
    liabilities of such entities.

Trading
    and Other Securities   

The tables below present certain information about the
    Company s trading securities and other securities for which
    the FVO has been elected:

See Note 1 for discussion of FVO contractholder-directed
    unit-linked investments and    Variable Interest
    Entities  for discussion of CSEs included in the tables
    above. The FVO contractholder-directed unit-linked investments
    held as of December 31, 2010 were primarily due to the
    Acquisition (see Note 2).

F-74

Table of Contents   

MetLife,
    Inc. 

Notes to
    the Consolidated Financial
    Statements   (Continued)  

Mortgage
    Loans   

Mortgage loans are summarized as follows at:

(1)  

Includes agricultural and residential mortgage loans. 

See    Variable Interest Entities  for
    discussion of CSEs included in the table above.

Concentration of Credit Risk    The Company
    diversifies its mortgage loan portfolio by both geographic
    region and property type to reduce the risk of concentration.
    The Company s commercial and agricultural mortgage loans
    are collateralized by properties primarily located in the United
    States, at 91%, with the remaining 9% collateralized by
    properties located outside the United States, calculated as a
    percent of total mortgage loans
     held-for-investment 
    (excluding commercial mortgage loans held by CSEs) at
    December 31, 2010. The carrying value of the Company s
    commercial and agricultural mortgage loans located in
    California, New York and Texas were 21%, 8% and 7%,
    respectively, of total mortgage loans
     held-for-investment 
    (excluding commercial mortgage loans held by CSEs) at
    December 31, 2010. Additionally, the Company manages risk
    when originating commercial and agricultural mortgage loans by
    generally lending only up to 75% of the estimated fair value of
    the underlying real estate.

Certain of the Company s real estate joint ventures have
    mortgage loans with the Company. The carrying values of such
    mortgage loans were $283 million and $368 million at
    December 31, 2010 and 2009, respectively.

F-75

Table of Contents   

MetLife,
    Inc. 

Notes to
    the Consolidated Financial
    Statements   (Continued)  

The following tables present the recorded investment in mortgage
    loans
     held-for-investment, 
    by portfolio segment, by method of evaluation of credit loss,
    and the related valuation allowances, by type of credit loss, at:

The following tables present the changes in the valuation
    allowance, by portfolio segment:

F-76

Table of Contents   

MetLife,
    Inc. 

Notes to
    the Consolidated Financial
    Statements   (Continued)  

Commercial Mortgage Loans   by Credit Quality
    Indicators with Estimated Fair Value:   Presented
    below for the commercial mortgage loans
     held-for-investment 
    is the recorded investment, prior to valuation allowances, by
    the indicated
     loan-to-value 
    ratio categories and debt service coverage ratio categories and
    estimated fair value of such mortgage loans by the indicated
     loan-to-value 
    ratio categories at:

Agricultural and Residential Mortgage Loans   by
    Credit Quality Indicator:   The recorded investment
    in agricultural and residential mortgage loans
     held-for-investment, 
    prior to valuation allowances, by credit quality indicator, was
    at:

Past Due and Interest Accrual Status of Mortgage
    Loans.   The Company has a high quality, well
    performing, mortgage loan portfolio with approximately 99% of
    all mortgage loans classified as performing.

Past Due.   The Company defines delinquent
    mortgage loans consistent with industry practice, when interest
    and principal payments are past due as follows: commercial
    mortgage loans   60 days past due; agricultural
    mortgage loans   90 days past due; and
    residential mortgage loans   60 days past due.
    The recorded investment in mortgage loans
     held-for-investment, 
    prior to valuation allowances, past due according to these aging
    categories was $58 million, $159 million and
    $79 million for commercial, agricultural and residential
    mortgage loans, respectively, at December 31, 2010; and for
    all mortgage loans was $296 million and $220 million
    at December 31, 2010 and 2009, respectively.

Accrual Status. Past Due 90 Days or More and Still Accruing
    Interest.   The recorded investment in mortgage
    loans
     held-for-investment, 
    prior to valuation allowances, that were past due 90 days
    or more and still accruing interest was $1 million,
    $13 million and $11 million for commercial,
    agricultural and residential mortgage loans, respectively, at
    December 31, 2010; and for all mortgage loans, was
    $25 million and $14 million at December 31, 2010
    and 2009, respectively.

Accrual Status. Mortgage Loans in Nonaccrual
    Status.   The recorded investment in mortgage loans
     held-for-investment, 
    prior to valuation allowances, that were in nonaccrual status
    was $7 million, $177 million

F-77

Table of Contents   

MetLife,
    Inc. 

Notes to
    the Consolidated Financial
    Statements   (Continued)  

and $25 million for commercial, agricultural and
    residential mortgage loans, respectively, at December 31,
    2010; and for all mortgage loans, was $209 million and
    $263 million at December 31, 2010 and 2009,
    respectively.

Impaired Mortgage Loans.   The unpaid principal
    balance, recorded investment, valuation allowances and carrying
    value, net of valuation allowances, for impaired mortgage loans
     held-for-investment, 
    by portfolio segment, at December 31, 2010 and for all
    impaired mortgage loans
     held-for-investment 
    at December 31, 2009, were as follows at:

Unpaid principal balance is generally prior to any charge-off.

The average investment in impaired mortgage loans
     held-for-investment, 
    and the related interest income, by portfolio segment, for the
    year ended December 31, 2010 and for all mortgage loans for
    the years ended December 31, 2009 and 2008, respectively,
    was:

F-78

Table of Contents   

MetLife,
    Inc. 

Notes to
    the Consolidated Financial
    Statements   (Continued)  

Real
    Estate and Real Estate Joint Ventures   

Real estate investments by type consisted of the following:

The Company classifies within traditional real estate its
    investment in income-producing real estate, which is comprised
    primarily of wholly-owned real estate and, to a much lesser
    extent joint ventures with interests in single property
    income-producing real estate. The Company classifies within real
    estate joint ventures and funds, its investments in joint
    ventures with interests in multi-property projects with varying
    strategies ranging from the development of properties to the
    operation of income-producing properties as well as its
    investments in real estate private equity funds. From time to
    time, the Company transfers investments from these joint
    ventures to traditional real estate, if the Company retains an
    interest in the joint venture after a completed property
    commences operations and the Company intends to retain an
    interest in the property.

Properties acquired through foreclosure were $165 million,
    $127 million and less than $1 million for the years
    ended December 31, 2010, 2009 and 2008, respectively, and
    includes commercial, agricultural and residential properties.
    After the Company acquires properties through foreclosure, it
    evaluates whether the property is appropriate for retention in
    its traditional real estate portfolio. Foreclosed real estate
    held at December 31, 2010 and 2009 includes those
    properties the Company has not selected for retention in its
    traditional real estate portfolio and which do not meet the
    criteria to be classified as
     held-for-sale. 

The wholly-owned real estate within traditional real estate is
    net of accumulated depreciation of $1.7 billion and $1.4 billion
    at December 31, 2010 and 2009, respectively. Related
    depreciation expense on traditional wholly-owned real estate was
    $151 million, $135 million and $136 million for
    the years ended December 31, 2010, 2009 and 2008,
    respectively. These amounts include depreciation expense related
    to discontinued operations of less than $1 million for the
    year ended December 31, 2010, and $1 million for both
    the years ended December 31, 2009 and 2008. The estimated
    fair value of the traditional real estate investment portfolio
    was $6.6 billion and $5.4 billion at December 31, 2010, and
    2009, respectively.

Impairments recognized on real estate
     held-for-investment 
    were $48 million, $160 million and $20 million
    for the years ended December 31, 2010, 2009 and 2008,
    respectively. Impairments recognized on real estate
     held-for-sale 
    were $1 million for the year ended December 31, 2010.
    There were no impairments recognized on real estate
     held-for-sale 
    for each of the years ended December 31, 2009 and 2008. The
    Company s carrying value of real estate
     held-for-sale 
    has been reduced by impairments recorded prior to 2009 of
    $1 million at both December 31, 2010 and 2009. The
    carrying value of non-income producing real estate was
    $137 million, $76 million and $28 million at
    December 31, 2010, 2009 and 2008, respectively.

The Company diversifies its real estate investments by both
    geographic region and property type to reduce risk of
    concentration. The Company s real estate investments are
    primarily located in the United States, at 88%, with the

F-79

Table of Contents   

MetLife,
    Inc. 

Notes to
    the Consolidated Financial
    Statements   (Continued)  

remaining 12% located outside the United States , at
    December 31, 2010. The three locations with the largest
    real estate investments were California, Florida and Japan at
    21%, 12% and 10%, respectively, at December 31, 2010.

The Company s real estate investments by property type are
    categorized as follows:

Other
    Limited Partnership Interests   

The carrying value of other limited partnership interests (which
    primarily represent ownership interests in pooled investment
    funds that principally make private equity investments in
    companies in the United States and overseas) was
    $6.4 billion and $5.5 billion at December 31,
    2010 and 2009, respectively. Included within other limited
    partnership interests were $1.0 billion, at both
    December 31, 2010 and 2009, of investments in hedge funds.
    Impairments of other limited partnership interests, principally
    cost method other limited partnership interests, were
    $12 million, $354 million and $105 million for
    the years ended December 31, 2010, 2009 and 2008,
    respectively.

Collectively
    Significant Equity Method Investments   

The Company holds investments in real estate joint ventures,
    real estate funds and other limited partnership interests
    consisting of leveraged buy-out funds, hedge funds, private
    equity funds, joint ventures and other funds. The portion of
    these investments accounted for under the equity method had a
    carrying value of $8.7 billion as of December 31,
    2010. The Company s maximum exposure to loss related to
    these equity method investments is limited to the carrying value
    of these investments plus unfunded commitments of
    $2.9 billion as of December 31, 2010. Except for
    certain real estate joint ventures, the Company s
    investments in real estate funds and other limited partnership
    interests are generally of a passive nature in that the Company
    does not participate in the management of the entities.

As further described in Note 1, the Company generally
    records its share of earnings in its equity method investments
    using a three-month lag methodology and within net investment
    income. As of December 31, 2010, aggregate net investment
    income from these equity method real estate joint ventures, real
    estate funds and other limited partnership interests exceeded
    10% of the Company s consolidated pre-tax income (loss)
    from continuing operations. Accordingly, the Company is
    providing the following aggregated summarized financial data for
    such equity method investments. This aggregated summarized
    financial data does not represent the Company s
    proportionate share of the assets, liabilities, or earnings of
    such entities.

As of, and for the year ended December 31, 2010, the
    aggregated summarized financial data presented below reflects
    the latest available financial information. Aggregate total
    assets of these entities totaled $262.9 billion and

F-80

Table of Contents   

MetLife,
    Inc. 

Notes to
    the Consolidated Financial
    Statements   (Continued)  

$209.9 billion as of December 31, 2010 and 2009,
    respectively. Aggregate total liabilities of these entities
    totaled $77.6 billion and $64.5 billion as of
    December 31, 2010 and 2009, respectively. Aggregate net
    income (loss) of these entities totaled $18.7 billion,
    $22.8 billion and ($23.3) billion for the years ended
    December 31, 2010, 2009 and 2008, respectively. Aggregate
    net income (loss) from real estate joint ventures, real estate
    funds and other limited partnership interests is primarily
    comprised of investment income, including recurring investment
    income and realized and unrealized investment gains (losses).

Other
    Invested Assets   

The following table presents the carrying value of the
    Company s other invested assets by type at:

See Note 4 for information regarding the freestanding
    derivatives with positive estimated fair values. See the
    following sections,  Leveraged Leases  and
     Mortgage Servicing Rights,  for the composition of
    leveraged leases and for information on MSRs. Tax credit
    partnerships are established for the purpose of investing in
    low-income housing and other social causes, where the primary
    return on investment is in the form of income tax credits, and
    are accounted for under the equity method or under the effective
    yield method. Joint venture investments are accounted for under
    the equity method and represent the Company s investment in
    insurance underwriting joint ventures in China, Japan (see
    Note 2) and Chile. Funds withheld represent amounts
    contractually withheld by ceding companies in accordance with
    reinsurance agreements. Funding agreements represent
    arrangements where the Company has long-term interest bearing
    amounts on deposit with third parties and are generally stated
    at amortized cost.

Leveraged
    Leases  

Investment in leveraged leases, included in other invested
    assets, consisted of the following:

F-81

Table of Contents   

MetLife,
    Inc. 

Notes to
    the Consolidated Financial
    Statements   (Continued)  

The rental receivables set forth above are generally due in
    periodic installments. The payment periods range from one to
    15 years, but in certain circumstances are as long as
    30 years. For rental receivables, the Company s
    primary credit quality indicator is whether the rental
    receivable is performing or non-performing. The Company
    generally defines non-performing rental receivables as those
    that are 90 days or more past due. The determination of
    performing or non-performing status is assessed monthly. As of
    December 31, 2010, all of the rental receivables were
    performing.

The Company s deferred income tax liability related to
    leveraged leases was $1.4 billion and $1.3 billion at
    December 31, 2010 and 2009, respectively.

The components of net income from investment in leveraged leases
    were as follows:

Mortgage
    Servicing Rights  

The following table presents the carrying value and changes in
    capitalized MSRs, which are included in other invested assets:

The Company recognizes the rights to service residential
    mortgage loans as MSRs. MSRs are either acquired or are
    generated from the sale of originated residential mortgage loans
    where the servicing rights are retained by the Company. MSRs are
    carried at estimated fair value and changes in estimated fair
    value, primarily due to changes in valuation inputs and
    assumptions and to the collection of expected cash flows, are
    reported in other revenues in the period in which the change
    occurs. Valuation inputs and assumptions include generally
    observable inputs such as type and age of loan, loan interest
    rates, current market interest rates and certain unobservable
    inputs, including assumptions regarding estimates of discount
    rates, loan prepayments and servicing costs, all of which are
    sensitive to changing market conditions. See Note 5 for
    further information about how the estimated fair value of MSRs
    is determined and other related information.

Short-term
    Investments   

The carrying value of short-term investments, which includes
    investments with remaining maturities of one year or less, but
    greater than three months, at the time of purchase was
    $9.4 billion and $8.4 billion at December 31,
    2010 and 2009, respectively. The Company is exposed to
    concentrations of credit risk related to securities of the

F-82

Table of Contents   

MetLife,
    Inc. 

Notes to
    the Consolidated Financial
    Statements   (Continued)  

U.S. government and certain U.S. government agencies
    included within short-term investments, which were
    $4.0 billion and $7.5 billion at December 31,
    2010 and 2009, respectively.

Cash
    Equivalents   

The carrying value of cash equivalents, which includes
    investments with an original or remaining maturity of three
    months or less, at the time of purchase was $9.6 billion
    and $8.4 billion at December 31, 2010 and 2009,
    respectively. The Company is exposed to concentrations of credit
    risk related to securities of the U.S. government and
    certain U.S. government agencies included within cash
    equivalents, which were $5.8 billion and $6.0 billion
    at December 31, 2010 and 2009, respectively.

Purchased
    Credit Impaired Investments   

Investments acquired with evidence of credit quality
    deterioration since origination and for which it is probable at
    the acquisition date that the Company will be unable to collect
    all contractually required payments are classified as purchased
    credit impaired investments. For each investment, the excess of
    the cash flows expected to be collected as of the acquisition
    date over its acquisition date fair value is referred to as the
    accretable yield and is recognized as net investment income on
    an effective yield basis. If subsequently, based on current
    information and events, it is probable that there is a
    significant increase in cash flows previously expected to be
    collected or if actual cash flows are significantly greater than
    cash flows previously expected to be collected, the accretable
    yield is adjusted prospectively. The excess of the contractually
    required payments (including interest) as of the acquisition
    date over the cash flows expected to be collected as of the
    acquisition date is referred to as the nonaccretable difference,
    and this amount is not expected to be realized as net investment
    income. Decreases in cash flows expected to be collected can
    result in OTTI or the recognition of mortgage loan valuation
    allowances (see Note 1).

The table below presents the purchased credit impaired
    investments, by invested asset class, held at:

(1)  

Represents the contractually required payments which is the sum
    of contractual principal, whether or not currently due, and
    accrued interest. 

(2)  

Estimated fair value plus accrued interest for fixed maturity
    securities and amortized cost, plus accrued interest, less any
    valuation allowances for mortgage loans. 

The following table presents information about purchased credit
    impaired investments, as of their respective acquisition dates,
    for:

(1)  

Represents undiscounted principal and interest cash flow
    expectations, at the date of acquisition. 

(2)  

A portion of the difference between the contractually required
    payments (including interest) and the cash flows expected to be
    collected on certain of the investments acquired from American
    Life has been established as an indemnification asset as
    discussed further in Note 2. 

F-83

Table of Contents   

MetLife,
    Inc. 

Notes to
    the Consolidated Financial
    Statements   (Continued)  

The following table presents activity for the accretable yield
    on purchased credit impaired investments for:

(1)  

As described further in Note 2, all investments acquired
    with American Life were recorded at estimated fair value as of
    the Acquisition Date. This activity relates to acquired fixed
    maturity securities and mortgage loans with a credit impairment
    inherent in the estimated fair value. 

Variable
    Interest Entities   

The Company holds investments in certain entities that are VIEs.
    In certain instances, the Company holds both the power to direct
    the most significant activities of the entity, as well as an
    economic interest in the entity and, as such, consistent with
    the new guidance described in Note 1, is deemed to be the
    primary beneficiary or consolidator of the entity. The following
    table presents the total assets and total liabilities relating
    to VIEs for which the Company has concluded that it is the
    primary beneficiary and which are consolidated in the
    Company s financial statements at December 31, 2010
    and 2009. Creditors or beneficial interest holders of VIEs where
    the Company is the primary beneficiary have no recourse to the
    general credit of the Company, as the Company s obligation
    to the VIEs is limited to the amount of its committed investment.

(1)  

As discussed in Note 1, upon the adoption of new guidance
    effective January 1, 2010, the Company consolidated former
    QSPEs that are structured as CMBS and former QSPEs that are
    structured as collateralized debt obligations. At
    December 31, 2010, these entities held total assets of
    $7,114 million, consisting of $201 million of FVO
    securities held by CSEs classified within trading and other
    securities, $6,840 million of commercial mortgage loans,
    $34 million of accrued investment income and
    $39 million of cash. These entities had total liabilities
    of $6,892 million, consisting of $6,820 million of
    long-term debt and $72 million of other liabilities. The
    assets of these entities can only be used to settle their
    respective liabilities, and under no circumstances is the
    Company or any of its subsidiaries or affiliates liable for any
    principal or interest shortfalls should any arise. The
    Company s exposure is limited to that of its remaining
    investment in the  

F-84

Table of Contents   

MetLife,
    Inc. 

Notes to
    the Consolidated Financial
    Statements   (Continued)  

former QSPEs of $201 million at estimated fair value at
    December 31, 2010. The long-term debt referred to above
    bears interest at primarily fixed rates ranging from 2.25% to
    5.57%, payable primarily on a monthly basis and is expected to
    be repaid over the next 7 years. Interest expense related
    to these obligations, included in other expenses, was
    $411 million for the year ended December 31, 2010. 

(2)  

See Note 12 for a description of the MetLife Reinsurance
    Company of South Carolina ( MRSC ) collateral
    financing arrangement. These assets consist of the following, at
    estimated fair value at: 

The following table presents the carrying amount and maximum
    exposure to loss relating to VIEs for which the Company holds
    significant variable interests but is not the primary
    beneficiary and which have not been consolidated at:

F-85

Table of Contents   

MetLife,
    Inc. 

Notes to
    the Consolidated Financial
    Statements   (Continued)  

(1)  

The maximum exposure to loss relating to the fixed maturity,
    equity and trading securities is equal to the carrying amounts
    or carrying amounts of retained interests. The maximum exposure
    to loss relating to the other limited partnership interests and
    real estate joint ventures is equal to the carrying amounts plus
    any unfunded commitments of the Company. Such a maximum loss
    would be expected to occur only upon bankruptcy of the issuer or
    investee. The maximum exposure to loss relating to the mortgage
    loans is equal to the carrying amounts plus any unfunded
    commitments of the Company. For certain of its investments in
    other invested assets, the Company s return is in the form
    of income tax credits which are guaranteed by a creditworthy
    third-party. For such investments, the maximum exposure to loss
    is equal to the carrying amounts plus any unfunded commitments,
    reduced by amounts guaranteed by third parties of
    $231 million and $232 million at December 31,
    2010 and 2009, respectively. 

(2)  

As discussed in Note 1, the Company adopted new guidance
    effective January 1, 2010 which eliminated the concept of a
    QSPE. As a result, the Company concluded it held variable
    interests in RMBS, CMBS and ABS. For these interests, the
    Company s involvement is limited to that of a passive
    investor. 

As described in Note 16, the Company makes commitments to
    fund partnership investments in the normal course of business.
    Excluding these commitments, the Company did not provide
    financial or other support to investees designated as VIEs
    during the years ended December 31, 2010, 2009 and 2008.

4.    

Derivative
    Financial Instruments  

Accounting
    for Derivative Financial Instruments   

See Note 1 for a description of the Company s
    accounting policies for derivative financial instruments.

See Note 5 for information about the fair value hierarchy
    for derivatives.

Primary
    Risks Managed by Derivative Financial Instruments and
    Non-Derivative Financial Instruments   

The Company is exposed to various risks relating to its ongoing
    business operations, including interest rate risk, foreign
    currency risk, credit risk and equity market risk. The Company
    uses a variety of strategies to manage these risks, including
    the use of derivative instruments. The following table presents
    the gross notional amount,

F-86

Table of Contents   

MetLife,
    Inc. 

Notes to
    the Consolidated Financial
    Statements   (Continued)  

estimated fair value and primary underlying risk exposure of the
    Company s derivative financial instruments, excluding
    embedded derivatives, held at:

(1)  

The estimated fair value of all derivatives in an asset position
    is reported within other invested assets in the consolidated
    balance sheets and the estimated fair value of all derivatives
    in a liability position is reported within other liabilities in
    the consolidated balance sheets. 

(2)  

The estimated fair value of non-derivative hedging instruments
    represents the amortized cost of the instruments, as adjusted
    for foreign currency transaction gains or losses. Non-derivative
    hedging instruments are reported within policyholder account
    balances in the consolidated balance sheets. 

F-87

Table of Contents   

MetLife,
    Inc. 

Notes to
    the Consolidated Financial
    Statements   (Continued)  

The following table presents the gross notional amount of
    derivative financial instruments by maturity at
    December 31, 2010:

Interest rate swaps are used by the Company primarily to reduce
    market risks from changes in interest rates and to alter
    interest rate exposure arising from mismatches between assets
    and liabilities (duration mismatches). In an interest rate swap,
    the Company agrees with another party to exchange, at specified
    intervals, the difference between fixed rate and floating rate
    interest amounts as calculated by reference to an agreed
    notional principal amount. These transactions are entered into
    pursuant to master agreements that provide for a single net
    payment to be made by the counterparty at each due date. The
    Company utilizes interest rate swaps in fair value, cash flow
    and non-qualifying hedging relationships.

The Company also enters into basis swaps to better match the
    cash flows from assets and related liabilities. In a basis swap,
    both legs of the swap are floating with each based on a
    different index. Generally, no cash is exchanged at the outset
    of the contract and no principal payments are made by either
    party. A single net payment is usually made by one counterparty
    at each due date. Basis swaps are included in interest rate
    swaps in the preceding table. The Company utilizes basis swaps
    in non-qualifying hedging relationships.

Inflation swaps are used as an economic hedge to reduce
    inflation risk generated from inflation-indexed liabilities.
    Inflation swaps are included in interest rate swaps in the
    preceding table. The Company utilizes inflation swaps in
    non-qualifying hedging relationships.

Implied volatility swaps are used by the Company primarily as
    economic hedges of interest rate risk associated with the
    Company s investments in mortgage-backed securities. In an
    implied volatility swap, the Company exchanges fixed payments
    for floating payments that are linked to certain market
    volatility measures. If implied volatility rises, the floating
    payments that the Company receives will increase, and if implied
    volatility falls, the floating payments that the Company
    receives will decrease. Implied volatility swaps are included in
    interest rate

F-88

Table of Contents   

MetLife,
    Inc. 

Notes to
    the Consolidated Financial
    Statements   (Continued)  

swaps in the preceding table. The Company utilizes implied
    volatility swaps in non-qualifying hedging relationships.

The Company purchases interest rate caps and floors primarily to
    protect its floating rate liabilities against rises in interest
    rates above a specified level, and against interest rate
    exposure arising from mismatches between assets and liabilities
    (duration mismatches), as well as to protect its minimum rate
    guarantee liabilities against declines in interest rates below a
    specified level, respectively. In certain instances, the Company
    locks in the economic impact of existing purchased caps and
    floors by entering into offsetting written caps and floors. The
    Company utilizes interest rate caps and floors in non-qualifying
    hedging relationships.

In exchange-traded interest rate (Treasury and swap) futures
    transactions, the Company agrees to purchase or sell a specified
    number of contracts, the value of which is determined by the
    different classes of interest rate securities, and to post
    variation margin on a daily basis in an amount equal to the
    difference in the daily market values of those contracts. The
    Company enters into exchange- traded futures with regulated
    futures commission merchants that are members of the exchange.
    Exchange-traded interest rate (Treasury and swap) futures are
    used primarily to hedge mismatches between the duration of
    assets in a portfolio and the duration of liabilities supported
    by those assets, to hedge against changes in value of securities
    the Company owns or anticipates acquiring and to hedge against
    changes in interest rates on anticipated liability issuances by
    replicating Treasury or swap curve performance. The Company
    utilizes exchange-traded interest rate futures in non-qualifying
    hedging relationships.

Swaptions are used by the Company to hedge interest rate risk
    associated with the Company s long-term liabilities and
    invested assets. A swaption is an option to enter into a swap
    with a forward starting effective date. In certain instances,
    the Company locks in the economic impact of existing purchased
    swaptions by entering into offsetting written swaptions. The
    Company pays a premium for purchased swaptions and receives a
    premium for written swaptions. Swaptions are included in
    interest rate options in the preceding table. The Company
    utilizes swaptions in non-qualifying hedging relationships.

The Company writes covered call options on its portfolio of
    U.S. Treasuries as an income generation strategy. In a
    covered call transaction, the Company receives a premium at the
    inception of the contract in exchange for giving the derivative
    counterparty the right to purchase the referenced security from
    the Company at a predetermined price. The call option is
     covered  because the Company owns the referenced
    security over the term of the option. Covered call options are
    included in interest rate options in the preceding table. The
    Company utilizes covered call options in non-qualifying hedging
    relationships.

The Company enters into interest rate forwards to buy and sell
    securities. The price is agreed upon at the time of the contract
    and payment for such a contract is made at a specified future
    date. The Company also uses interest rate forwards to sell to be
    announced securities as economic hedges against the risk of
    changes in the fair value of mortgage loans
     held-for-sale 
    and interest rate lock commitments. The Company utilizes
    interest rate forwards in cash flow and non-qualifying hedging
    relationships.

Interest rate lock commitments are short-term commitments to
    fund mortgage loan applications in process (the pipeline) for a
    fixed term for a fixed rate or spread. During the term of an
    interest rate lock commitment, the Company is exposed to the
    risk that interest rates will change from the rate quoted to the
    potential borrower. Interest rate lock commitments to fund
    mortgage loans that will be
     held-for-sale 
    are considered derivative instruments. Interest rate lock
    commitments are included in interest rate forwards in the
    preceding table. Interest rate lock commitments are not
    designated as hedging instruments.

A synthetic GIC is a contract that simulates the performance of
    a traditional guaranteed interest contract through the use of
    financial instruments. Under a synthetic GIC, the policyholder
    owns the underlying assets. The Company guarantees a rate return
    on those assets for a premium. Synthetic GICs are not designated
    as hedging instruments.

F-89

Table of Contents   

MetLife,
    Inc. 

Notes to
    the Consolidated Financial
    Statements   (Continued)  

Foreign currency derivatives, including foreign currency swaps,
    foreign currency forwards and currency option contracts, are
    used by the Company to reduce the risk from fluctuations in
    foreign currency exchange rates associated with its assets and
    liabilities denominated in foreign currencies. The Company also
    uses foreign currency forwards and swaps to hedge the foreign
    currency risk associated with certain of its net investments in
    foreign operations.

In a foreign currency swap transaction, the Company agrees with
    another party to exchange, at specified intervals, the
    difference between one currency and another at a fixed exchange
    rate, generally set at inception, calculated by reference to an
    agreed upon principal amount. The principal amount of each
    currency is exchanged at the inception and termination of the
    currency swap by each party. The Company utilizes foreign
    currency swaps in fair value, cash flow, net investment in
    foreign operations and non-qualifying hedging relationships.

In a foreign currency forward transaction, the Company agrees
    with another party to deliver a specified amount of an
    identified currency at a specified future date. The price is
    agreed upon at the time of the contract and payment for such a
    contract is made in a different currency at the specified future
    date. The Company utilizes foreign currency forwards in net
    investment in foreign operations and non-qualifying hedging
    relationships.

In exchange-traded currency futures transactions, the Company
    agrees to purchase or sell a specified number of contracts, the
    value of which is determined by referenced currencies, and to
    post variation margin on a daily basis in an amount equal to the
    difference in the daily market values of those contracts. The
    Company enters into exchange-traded futures with regulated
    futures commission merchants that are members of the exchange.
    Exchange-traded currency futures are used primarily to hedge
    currency mismatches between assets and liabilities. The Company
    utilizes exchange-traded currency futures in non-qualifying
    hedging relationships.

The Company enters into currency option contracts that give it
    the right, but not the obligation, to sell the foreign currency
    amount in exchange for a functional currency amount within a
    limited time at a contracted price. The contracts may also be
    net settled in cash, based on differentials in the foreign
    exchange rate and the strike price. The Company uses currency
    options to hedge against the foreign currency exposure inherent
    in certain of its variable annuity products. The Company also
    uses currency options as an economic hedge of foreign currency
    exposure related to the Company s international
    subsidiaries. The Company utilizes currency options in
    non-qualifying hedging relationships.

The Company uses certain of its foreign currency denominated
    funding agreements to hedge portions of its net investments in
    foreign operations against adverse movements in exchange rates.
    Such contracts are included in non-derivative hedging
    instruments in the preceding table.

Swap spreadlocks are used by the Company to hedge invested
    assets on an economic basis against the risk of changes in
    credit spreads. Swap spreadlocks are forward transactions
    between two parties whose underlying reference index is a
    forward starting interest rate swap where the Company agrees to
    pay a coupon based on a predetermined reference swap spread in
    exchange for receiving a coupon based on a floating rate. The
    Company has the option to cash settle with the counterparty in
    lieu of maintaining the swap after the effective date. The
    Company utilizes swap spreadlocks in non-qualifying hedging
    relationships.

Certain credit default swaps are used by the Company to hedge
    against credit-related changes in the value of its investments
    and to diversify its credit risk exposure in certain portfolios.
    In a credit default swap transaction, the Company agrees with
    another party, at specified intervals, to pay a premium to hedge
    credit risk. If a credit event, as defined by the contract,
    occurs, generally the contract will require the swap to be
    settled gross by the delivery of par quantities of the
    referenced investment equal to the specified swap notional in
    exchange for the payment of cash amounts by the counterparty
    equal to the par value of the investment surrendered. The
    Company utilizes credit default swaps in non-qualifying hedging
    relationships.

Credit default swaps are also used to synthetically create
    investments that are either more expensive to acquire or
    otherwise unavailable in the cash markets. These transactions
    are a combination of a derivative and a cash

F-90

Table of Contents   

MetLife,
    Inc. 

Notes to
    the Consolidated Financial
    Statements   (Continued)  

instrument such as a U.S. Treasury or Agency security. The
    Company also enters into certain credit default swaps held in
    relation to trading portfolios for the purpose of generating
    profits on short-term differences in price. These credit default
    swaps are not designated as hedging instruments.

The Company enters into forwards to lock in the price to be paid
    for forward purchases of certain securities. The price is agreed
    upon at the time of the contract and payment for the contract is
    made at a specified future date. When the primary purpose of
    entering into these transactions is to hedge against the risk of
    changes in purchase price due to changes in credit spreads, the
    Company designates these as credit forwards. The Company
    utilizes credit forwards in cash flow hedging relationships.

In exchange-traded equity futures transactions, the Company
    agrees to purchase or sell a specified number of contracts, the
    value of which is determined by the different classes of equity
    securities, and to post variation margin on a daily basis in an
    amount equal to the difference in the daily market values of
    those contracts. The Company enters into exchange-traded futures
    with regulated futures commission merchants that are members of
    the exchange. Exchange-traded equity futures are used primarily
    to hedge liabilities embedded in certain variable annuity
    products offered by the Company. The Company utilizes
    exchange-traded equity futures in non-qualifying hedging
    relationships.

Equity index options are used by the Company primarily to hedge
    minimum guarantees embedded in certain variable annuity products
    offered by the Company. To hedge against adverse changes in
    equity indices, the Company enters into contracts to sell the
    equity index within a limited time at a contracted price. The
    contracts will be net settled in cash based on differentials in
    the indices at the time of exercise and the strike price.
    Certain of these contracts may also contain settlement
    provisions linked to interest rates. In certain instances, the
    Company may enter into a combination of transactions to hedge
    adverse changes in equity indices within a pre-determined range
    through the purchase and sale of options. Equity index options
    are included in equity options in the preceding table. The
    Company utilizes equity index options in non-qualifying hedging
    relationships.

Equity variance swaps are used by the Company primarily to hedge
    minimum guarantees embedded in certain variable annuity products
    offered by the Company. In an equity variance swap, the Company
    agrees with another party to exchange amounts in the future,
    based on changes in equity volatility over a defined period.
    Equity variance swaps are included in variance swaps in the
    preceding table. The Company utilizes equity variance swaps in
    non-qualifying hedging relationships.

Total rate of return swaps ( TRRs ) are swaps whereby
    the Company agrees with another party to exchange, at specified
    intervals, the difference between the economic risk and reward
    of an asset or a market index and the London Inter-Bank Offer
    Rate ( LIBOR ), calculated by reference to an agreed
    notional principal amount. No cash is exchanged at the outset of
    the contract. Cash is paid and received over the life of the
    contract based on the terms of the swap. These transactions are
    entered into pursuant to master agreements that provide for a
    single net payment to be made by the counterparty at each due
    date. The Company uses TRRs to hedge its equity market
    guarantees in certain of its insurance products. TRRs can be
    used as hedges or to synthetically create investments. The
    Company utilizes TRRs in non-qualifying hedging relationships.

F-91

Table of Contents   

MetLife,
    Inc. 

Notes to
    the Consolidated Financial
    Statements   (Continued)  

Hedging   

The following table presents the gross notional amount and
    estimated fair value of derivatives designated as hedging
    instruments by type of hedge designation at:

F-92

Table of Contents   

MetLife,
    Inc. 

Notes to
    the Consolidated Financial
    Statements   (Continued)  

The following table presents the gross notional amount and
    estimated fair value of derivatives that were not designated or
    do not qualify as hedging instruments by derivative type at:

Net
    Derivative Gains (Losses)   

The components of net derivative gains (losses) were as follows:

(1)  

Includes foreign currency transaction gains (losses) on hedged
    items in cash flow and non-qualifying hedge relationships, which
    are not presented elsewhere in this note. 

F-93

Table of Contents   

MetLife,
    Inc. 

Notes to
    the Consolidated Financial
    Statements   (Continued)  

The following table presents the settlement payments recorded in
    income for the:

Fair
    Value Hedges   

The Company designates and accounts for the following as fair
    value hedges when they have met the requirements of fair value
    hedging: (i) interest rate swaps to convert fixed rate
    investments to floating rate investments; (ii) interest
    rate swaps to convert fixed rate liabilities to floating rate
    liabilities; and (iii) foreign currency swaps to hedge the
    foreign currency fair value exposure of foreign currency
    denominated investments and liabilities.

The Company recognizes gains and losses on derivatives and the
    related hedged items in fair value hedges within net derivative
    gains (losses). The following table represents the amount of
    such net derivative gains (losses) recognized for the years
    ended December 31, 2010, 2009 and 2008:

(1)  

Fixed rate liabilities 

(2)  

Fixed rate or floating rate liabilities 

F-94

Table of Contents   

MetLife,
    Inc. 

Notes to
    the Consolidated Financial
    Statements   (Continued)  

All components of each derivative s gain or loss were
    included in the assessment of hedge effectiveness.

Cash
    Flow Hedges   

The Company designates and accounts for the following as cash
    flow hedges when they have met the requirements of cash flow
    hedging: (i) interest rate swaps to convert floating rate
    investments to fixed rate investments; (ii) interest rate
    swaps to convert floating rate liabilities to fixed rate
    liabilities; (iii) foreign currency swaps to hedge the
    foreign currency cash flow exposure of foreign currency
    denominated investments and liabilities; (iv) interest rate
    forwards and credit forwards to lock in the price to be paid for
    forward purchases of investments; (v) interest rate swaps
    and interest rate forwards to hedge the forecasted purchases of
    fixed-rate investments; and (vi) interest rate swaps and
    interest rate forwards to hedge forecasted fixed-rate borrowings.

For the years ended December 31, 2010 and 2009, the Company
    recognized $1 million and ($3) million, respectively,
    of net derivative gains (losses) which represented the
    ineffective portion of all cash flow hedges. For the year ended
    December 31, 2008, the Company did not recognize any net
    derivative gains (losses) which represented the ineffective
    portion of all cash flow hedges. All components of each
    derivative s gain or loss were included in the assessment
    of hedge effectiveness. In certain instances, the Company
    discontinued cash flow hedge accounting because the forecasted
    transactions did not occur on the anticipated date or within two
    months of that date. The net amounts reclassified into net
    derivative gains (losses) for the years ended December 31,
    2010, 2009 and 2008 related to such discontinued cash flow
    hedges were gains (losses) of $9 million, ($7) million
    and ($12) million, respectively. At December 31, 2010
    and 2009, the maximum length of time over which the Company was
    hedging its exposure to variability in future cash flows for
    forecasted transactions did not exceed seven years and five
    years, respectively. There were no hedged forecasted
    transactions, other than the receipt or payment of variable
    interest payments, for the year ended December 31, 2008.

The following table presents the components of accumulated other
    comprehensive income (loss), before income tax, related to cash
    flow hedges:

At December 31, 2010, $3 million of deferred net
    losses on derivatives in accumulated other comprehensive income
    (loss) was expected to be reclassified to earnings within the
    next 12 months.

F-95

Table of Contents   

MetLife,
    Inc. 

Notes to
    the Consolidated Financial
    Statements   (Continued)  

The following table presents the effects of derivatives in cash
    flow hedging relationships on the consolidated statements of
    operations and the consolidated statements of equity for the
    years ended December 31, 2010, 2009 and 2008:

Amount of Gains 

Amount and Location 

(Losses) Deferred 

of Gains (Losses) 

Amount and Location 

in Accumulated Other 

Reclassified from 

of Gains (Losses) 

Derivatives in Cash Flow 

Comprehensive Income 

Accumulated Other Comprehensive 

Recognized in Income (Loss) 

Hedging Relationships 

(Loss) on Derivatives 

Income (Loss) into Income (Loss) 

on Derivatives 

(Ineffective Portion and 

Amount Excluded from 

(Effective Portion) 

(Effective Portion) 

Effectiveness Testing) 

Net Derivative 

Net Investment 

Other 

Net Derivative 

Net Investment 

Gains (Losses) 

Income 

Expenses 

Gains (Losses) 

Income 

(In millions) 

For the Year Ended December 31, 2010: 

Interest rate swaps

$

13

$

$

$

(1

)

$

3

$

Foreign currency swaps

34

(79

)

(6

)

2

Interest rate forwards

(117

)

14

2

(2

)

Credit forwards

19

Total

$

(51

)

$

(65

)

$

(4

)

$

1

$

1

$

For the Year Ended December 31, 2009: 

Interest rate swaps

$

(45

)

$

$

$

(4

)

$

(2

)

$

Foreign currency swaps

(319

)

(133

)

(6

)

1

(1

)

Interest rate forwards

147

79

Credit forwards

(4

)

Total

$

(221

)

$

(54

)

$

(6

)

$

(3

)

$

(3

)

$

For the Year Ended December 31, 2008: 

Foreign currency swaps

$

203

$

(140

)

$

(10

)

$

1

$

$

Hedges
    of Net Investments in Foreign Operations   

The Company uses foreign exchange contracts, which may include
    foreign currency swaps, forwards and options, to hedge portions
    of its net investments in foreign operations against adverse
    movements in exchange rates. The Company measures
    ineffectiveness on these contracts based upon the change in
    forward rates. In addition, the Company may also use
    non-derivative financial instruments to hedge portions of its
    net investments in foreign operations against adverse movements
    in exchange rates. The Company measures ineffectiveness on
    non-derivative financial instruments based upon the change in
    spot rates.

When net investments in foreign operations are sold or
    substantially liquidated, the amounts in accumulated other
    comprehensive income (loss) are reclassified to the consolidated
    statements of operations, while a pro rata portion will be
    reclassified upon partial sale of the net investments in foreign
    operations.

F-96

Table of Contents   

MetLife,
    Inc. 

Notes to
    the Consolidated Financial
    Statements   (Continued)  

The following table presents the effects of derivatives and
    non-derivative financial instruments in net investment hedging
    relationships in the consolidated statements of operations and
    the consolidated statements of equity for the years ended
    December 31, 2010, 2009 and 2008:

(1)  

During the years ended December 31, 2010 and 2008, there
    were no sales or substantial liquidations of net investments in
    foreign operations that would have required the reclassification
    of gains or losses from accumulated other comprehensive income
    (loss) into earnings. During the year ended December 31,
    2009, the Company substantially liquidated, through assumption
    reinsurance (see Note 2), the portion of its Canadian
    operations that was being hedged in a net investment hedging
    relationship. As a result, the Company reclassified losses of
    $133 million from accumulated other comprehensive income
    (loss) into earnings. 

(2)  

There was no ineffectiveness recognized for the Company s
    hedges of net investments in foreign operations. 

At December 31, 2010 and 2009, the cumulative foreign
    currency translation gain (loss) recorded in accumulated other
    comprehensive income (loss) related to hedges of net investments
    in foreign operations was ($223) million and
    ($40) million, respectively.

Non-Qualifying
    Derivatives and Derivatives for Purposes Other Than
    Hedging   

The Company enters into the following derivatives that do not
    qualify for hedge accounting or for purposes other than hedging:
    (i) interest rate swaps, implied volatility swaps, caps and
    floors and interest rate futures to economically hedge its
    exposure to interest rates; (ii) foreign currency forwards,
    swaps, option contracts, and future contracts to economically
    hedge its exposure to adverse movements in exchange rates;
    (iii) credit default swaps to economically hedge exposure
    to adverse movements in credit; (iv) equity futures, equity
    index options, interest rate futures, TRRs and equity variance
    swaps to economically hedge liabilities embedded in certain
    variable annuity products; (v) swap spreadlocks to
    economically hedge invested assets against the risk of changes
    in credit spreads; (vi) interest rate forwards to buy and
    sell securities to economically hedge its exposure to interest
    rates; (vii) credit default swaps and TRRs to synthetically
    create investments; (viii) basis swaps to better match the
    cash flows of assets and related liabilities; (ix) credit
    default swaps held in relation to trading portfolios;
    (x) swaptions to hedge interest rate risk;
    (xi) inflation swaps to reduce risk generated from
    inflation-indexed liabilities; (xii) covered call options
    for income generation; (xiii) interest rate lock
    commitments; (xiv) synthetic GICs; and (xv) equity
    options to economically hedge certain invested assets against
    adverse changes in equity indices.

F-97

Table of Contents   

MetLife,
    Inc. 

Notes to
    the Consolidated Financial
    Statements   (Continued)  

The following tables present the amount and location of gains
    (losses) recognized in income for derivatives that were not
    designated or qualifying as hedging instruments:

(1)  

Changes in estimated fair value related to economic hedges of
    equity method investments in joint ventures, and changes in
    estimated fair value related to derivatives held in relation to
    trading portfolios. 

F-98

Table of Contents   

MetLife,
    Inc. 

Notes to
    the Consolidated Financial
    Statements   (Continued)  

(2)  

Changes in estimated fair value related to economic hedges of
    variable annuity guarantees included in future policy benefits. 

(3)  

Changes in estimated fair value related to derivatives held in
    connection with the Company s mortgage banking activities. 

(4)  

Changes in estimated fair value related to economic hedges of
    foreign currency exposure associated with the Company s
    international subsidiaries. 

Credit
    Derivatives   

In connection with synthetically created investment transactions
    and credit default swaps held in relation to the trading
    portfolio, the Company writes credit default swaps for which it
    receives a premium to insure credit risk. Such credit
    derivatives are included within the non-qualifying derivatives
    and derivatives for purposes other than hedging table. If a
    credit event occurs, as defined by the contract, generally the
    contract will require the Company to pay the counterparty the
    specified swap notional amount in exchange for the delivery of
    par quantities of the referenced credit obligation. The
    Company s maximum amount at risk, assuming the value of all
    referenced credit obligations is zero, was $5,089 million
    and $3,101 million at December 31, 2010 and 2009,
    respectively. The Company can terminate these contracts at any
    time through cash settlement with the counterparty at an amount
    equal to the then current fair value of the credit default
    swaps. At December 31, 2010 and 2009, the Company would
    have received $62 million and $53 million,
    respectively, to terminate all of these contracts.

The following table presents the estimated fair value, maximum
    amount of future payments and weighted average years to maturity
    of written credit default swaps at December 31, 2010 and
    2009:

F-99

Table of Contents   

MetLife,
    Inc. 

Notes to
    the Consolidated Financial
    Statements   (Continued)  

(1)  

The rating agency designations are based on availability and the
    midpoint of the applicable ratings among Moody s, S P
    and Fitch. If no rating is available from a rating agency, then
    an internally developed rating is used. 

(2)  

Assumes the value of the referenced credit obligations is zero. 

(3)  

The weighted average years to maturity of the credit default
    swaps is calculated based on weighted average notional amounts. 

The Company has also entered into credit default swaps to
    purchase credit protection on certain of the referenced credit
    obligations in the table above. As a result, the maximum amounts
    of potential future recoveries available to offset the
    $5,089 million and $3,101 million from the table above
    were $120 million and $31 million at December 31,
    2010 and 2009, respectively.

Credit
    Risk on Freestanding Derivatives   

The Company may be exposed to credit-related losses in the event
    of nonperformance by counterparties to derivative financial
    instruments. Generally, the current credit exposure of the
    Company s derivative contracts is limited to the net
    positive estimated fair value of derivative contracts at the
    reporting date after taking into consideration the existence of
    netting agreements and any collateral received pursuant to
    credit support annexes.

The Company manages its credit risk related to
     over-the-counter 
    derivatives by entering into transactions with creditworthy
    counterparties, maintaining collateral arrangements and through
    the use of master agreements that provide for a single net
    payment to be made by one counterparty to another at each due
    date and upon termination. Because exchange-traded futures are
    effected through regulated exchanges, and positions are marked
    to market on a daily basis, the Company has minimal exposure to
    credit-related losses in the event of nonperformance by
    counterparties to such derivative instruments. See Note 5
    for a description of the impact of credit risk on the valuation
    of derivative instruments.

The Company enters into various collateral arrangements, which
    require both the pledging and accepting of collateral in
    connection with its derivative instruments. At December 31,
    2010 and 2009, the Company was obligated to return cash
    collateral under its control of $2,625 million and
    $2,680 million, respectively. This unrestricted cash
    collateral is included in cash and cash equivalents or in
    short-term investments and the obligation to return it is
    included in payables for collateral under securities loaned and
    other transactions in the consolidated balance sheets. At
    December 31, 2010 and 2009, the Company had also accepted
    collateral consisting of various securities with a fair market
    value of $984 million and $221 million, respectively,
    which were held in separate custodial accounts. The Company is
    permitted by contract to sell or repledge this collateral, but
    at December 31, 2010, none of the collateral had been sold
    or repledged.

The Company s collateral arrangements for its
     over-the-counter 
    derivatives generally require the counterparty in a net
    liability position, after considering the effect of netting
    agreements, to pledge collateral when the fair value of that
    counterparty s derivatives reaches a pre-determined
    threshold. Certain of these arrangements also include
    credit-contingent provisions that provide for a reduction of
    these thresholds (on a sliding scale that converges toward zero)
    in the event of downgrades in the credit ratings of the Company
     and/or  the
    counterparty. In addition, certain of the Company s netting
    agreements for derivative instruments contain provisions that
    require the Company to maintain a specific investment grade
    credit rating from at least one of the major credit rating
    agencies. If the Company s credit ratings were to fall
    below that specific investment grade credit rating, it would be
    in violation of these provisions, and the counterparties to the
    derivative instruments could request immediate payment or demand
    immediate and ongoing full overnight collateralization on
    derivative instruments that are in a net liability position
    after considering the effect of netting agreements.

The following table presents the estimated fair value of the
    Company s
     over-the-counter 
    derivatives that are in a net liability position after
    considering the effect of netting agreements, together with the
    estimated fair value and

F-100

Table of Contents   

MetLife,
    Inc. 

Notes to
    the Consolidated Financial
    Statements   (Continued)  

balance sheet location of the collateral pledged. The table also
    presents the incremental collateral that the Company would be
    required to provide if there was a one notch downgrade in the
    Company s credit rating at the reporting date or if the
    Company s credit rating sustained a downgrade to a level
    that triggered full overnight collateralization or termination
    of the derivative position at the reporting date. Derivatives
    that are not subject to collateral agreements are not included
    in the scope of this table.

(1)  

After taking into consideration the existence of netting
    agreements. 

(2)  

Included in fixed maturity securities in the consolidated
    balance sheets. The counterparties are permitted by contract to
    sell or repledge this collateral. 

(3)  

Included in premiums, reinsurance and other receivables in the
    consolidated balance sheets. 

Without considering the effect of netting agreements, the
    estimated fair value of the Company s
     over-the-counter 
    derivatives with credit-contingent provisions that were in a
    gross liability position at December 31, 2010 was
    $1,742 million. At December 31, 2010, the Company
    provided securities collateral of $1,024 million in
    connection with these derivatives. In the unlikely event that
    both: (i) the Company s credit rating was downgraded
    to a level that triggers full overnight collateralization or
    termination of all derivative positions; and (ii) the
    Company s netting agreements were deemed to be legally
    unenforceable, then the additional collateral that the Company
    would be required to provide to its counterparties in connection
    with its derivatives in a gross liability position at
    December 31, 2010 would be $718 million. This amount
    does not consider gross derivative assets of $575 million
    for which the Company has the contractual right of offset.

The Company also has exchange-traded futures and options, which
    require the pledging of collateral. At December 31, 2010
    and 2009, the Company pledged securities collateral for
    exchange-traded futures and options of $40 million and
    $50 million, respectively, which is included in fixed
    maturity securities. The counterparties are permitted by
    contract to sell or repledge this collateral. At
    December 31, 2010 and 2009, the Company provided cash
    collateral for exchange-traded futures and options of
    $662 million and $562 million, respectively, which is
    included in premiums, reinsurance and other receivables.

F-101

Table of Contents   

MetLife,
    Inc. 

Notes to
    the Consolidated Financial
    Statements   (Continued)  

Embedded
    Derivatives   

The Company has certain embedded derivatives that are required
    to be separated from their host contracts and accounted for as
    derivatives. These host contracts principally include: variable
    annuities with guaranteed minimum benefits, including GMWBs,
    GMABs and certain GMIBs; ceded reinsurance contracts of
    guaranteed minimum benefits related to GMABs and certain GMIBs;
    and funding agreements with equity or bond indexed crediting
    rates.

The following table presents the estimated fair value of the
    Company s embedded derivatives at:

The following table presents changes in estimated fair value
    related to embedded derivatives:

(1)  

The valuation of guaranteed minimum benefits includes an
    adjustment for nonperformance risk. Included in net derivative
    gains (losses), in connection with this adjustment, were gains
    (losses) of ($96) million, ($1,932) million and
    $2,994 million for the years ended December 31, 2010,
    2009 and 2008, respectively. Net derivative gains (losses) for
    the year ended December 31, 2010 included a loss of
    $955 million relating to a refinement for estimating
    nonperformance risk in fair value measurements implemented at
    June 30, 2010. See Note 5. 

5.    

Fair
    Value  

Considerable judgment is often required in interpreting market
    data to develop estimates of fair value and the use of different
    assumptions or valuation methodologies may have a material
    effect on the estimated fair value amounts.

F-102

Table of Contents   

MetLife,
    Inc. 

Notes to
    the Consolidated Financial
    Statements   (Continued)  

Assets
    and Liabilities Measured at Fair Value  

Recurring
    Fair Value Measurements   

The assets and liabilities measured at estimated fair value on a
    recurring basis, including those items for which the Company has
    elected the FVO, were determined as described below. These
    estimated fair values and their corresponding placement in the
    fair value hierarchy are summarized as follows:

F-103

Table of Contents   

MetLife,
    Inc. 

Notes to
    the Consolidated Financial
    Statements   (Continued)  

See    Variable Interest Entities  in
    Note 3 for discussion of CSEs included in the table above.

F-104

Table of Contents   

MetLife,
    Inc. 

Notes to
    the Consolidated Financial
    Statements   (Continued)  

(1)  

Short-term investments as presented in the tables above differ
    from the amounts presented in the consolidated balance sheets
    because certain short-term investments are not measured at
    estimated fair value (e.g., time deposits, etc.), and therefore
    are excluded from the tables presented above. 

(2)  

Mortgage loans
     held-for-sale 
    as presented in the tables above differ from the amount
    presented in the consolidated balance sheets as these tables
    only include residential mortgage loans
     held-for-sale 
    measured at estimated fair value on a recurring basis. 

(3)  

MSRs are presented within other invested assets in the
    consolidated balance sheets. 

(4)  

Derivative assets are presented within other invested assets in
    the consolidated balance sheets and derivative liabilities are
    presented within other liabilities in the consolidated balance
    sheets. The amounts are presented gross in the tables above to
    reflect the presentation in the consolidated balance sheets, but
    are presented net for purposes of the rollforward in the Fair
    Value Measurements Using Significant Unobservable Inputs
    (Level 3) tables which follow. At December 31,
    2010 and 2009, certain non-derivative hedging instruments of
    $185 million and $0, respectively, which are carried at
    amortized cost, are included with the liabilities total in
    Note 4 but excluded from derivative liabilities in the
    tables above as they are not derivative instruments. 

(5)  

Net embedded derivatives within asset host contracts are
    presented within premiums, reinsurance and other receivables in
    the consolidated balance sheets. Net embedded derivatives within
    liability host contracts are presented primarily within
    policyholder account balances in the consolidated balance
    sheets. At December 31, 2010, fixed maturity securities and
    equity securities also included embedded derivatives of
    $5 million and ($62) million, respectively. At
    December 31, 2009, fixed maturity securities and equity
    securities included embedded derivatives of $0 and
    ($37) million, respectively. 

(6)  

Separate account assets are measured at estimated fair value.
    Investment performance related to separate account assets is
    fully offset by corresponding amounts credited to
    contractholders whose liability is reflected within separate
    account liabilities. Separate account liabilities are set equal
    to the estimated fair value of separate account assets. 

(7)  

Trading liabilities are presented within other liabilities in
    the consolidated balance sheets. 

The methods and assumptions used to estimate the fair value of
    financial instruments are summarized as follows:

Fixed
    Maturity Securities, Equity Securities, Trading and Other
    Securities and Short-term Investments  

When available, the estimated fair value of the Company s
    fixed maturity, equity and trading and other securities are
    based on quoted prices in active markets that are readily and
    regularly obtainable. Generally, these are the most liquid of
    the Company s securities holdings and valuation of these
    securities does not involve management judgment.

When quoted prices in active markets are not available, the
    determination of estimated fair value is based on market
    standard valuation methodologies. The market standard valuation
    methodologies utilized include: discounted cash flow
    methodologies, matrix pricing or other similar techniques. The
    inputs in applying these market standard valuation methodologies
    include, but are not limited to: interest rates, credit standing
    of the issuer or counterparty, industry sector of the issuer,
    coupon rate, call provisions, sinking fund requirements,
    maturity and management s assumptions regarding estimated
    duration, liquidity and estimated future cash flows.
    Accordingly, the estimated fair values are based on available
    market information and management s judgments about
    financial instruments.

The significant inputs to the market standard valuation
    methodologies for certain types of securities with reasonable
    levels of price transparency are inputs that are observable in
    the market or can be derived principally

F-105

Table of Contents   

MetLife,
    Inc. 

Notes to
    the Consolidated Financial
    Statements   (Continued)  

from or corroborated by observable market data. Such observable
    inputs include benchmarking prices for similar assets in active
    markets, quoted prices in markets that are not active and
    observable yields and spreads in the market.

When observable inputs are not available, the market standard
    valuation methodologies for determining the estimated fair value
    of certain types of securities that trade infrequently, and
    therefore have little or no price transparency, rely on inputs
    that are significant to the estimated fair value that are not
    observable in the market or cannot be derived principally from
    or corroborated by observable market data. These unobservable
    inputs can be based in large part on management judgment or
    estimation and cannot be supported by reference to market
    activity. Even though unobservable, these inputs are assumed to
    be consistent with what other market participants would use when
    pricing such securities and are considered appropriate given the
    circumstances.

The estimated fair value of FVO securities held by CSEs is
    determined on a basis consistent with the methodologies
    described herein for fixed maturity securities and equity
    securities. As discussed in Note 1, the Company adopted new
    guidance effective January 1, 2010 and consolidated certain
    securitization entities that hold securities that have been
    accounted for under the FVO and classified within trading and
    other securities.

The use of different methodologies, assumptions and inputs may
    have a material effect on the estimated fair values of the
    Company s securities holdings.

Mortgage
    Loans  

Mortgage loans presented in the tables above consist of
    commercial mortgage loans held by CSEs and residential mortgage
    loans
     held-for-sale 
    for which the Company has elected the FVO and which are carried
    at estimated fair value. As discussed in Note 1, the
    Company adopted new guidance effective January 1, 2010 and
    consolidated certain securitization entities that hold
    commercial mortgage loans. See    Valuation
    Techniques and Inputs by Level Within the
    Three-Level Fair Value Hierarchy by Major Classes of Assets
    and Liabilities  below for a discussion of the methods and
    assumptions used to estimate the fair value of these financial
    instruments.

MSRs  

Although MSRs are not financial instruments, the Company has
    included them in the preceding table as a result of its election
    to carry MSRs at estimated fair value. See
       Valuation Techniques and Inputs by
    Level Within the Three-Level Fair Value Hierarchy by
    Major Classes of Assets and Liabilities  below for a
    discussion of the methods and assumptions used to estimate the
    fair value of these financial instruments.

Other
    Invested Assets   Investment Funds  

The estimated fair value of these investment funds is determined
    on a basis consistent with the methodologies described herein
    for trading and other securities.

Derivatives  

The estimated fair value of derivatives is determined through
    the use of quoted market prices for exchange-traded derivatives
    and interest rate forwards to sell certain to be announced
    securities, or through the use of pricing models for
     over-the-counter 
    derivatives. The determination of estimated fair value, when
    quoted market values are not available, is based on market
    standard valuation methodologies and inputs that are assumed to
    be consistent with what other market participants would use when
    pricing the instruments. Derivative valuations can be affected
    by changes in interest rates, foreign currency exchange rates,
    financial indices, credit spreads, default risk (including the
    counterparties to the contract), volatility, liquidity and
    changes in estimates and assumptions used in the pricing models.

The significant inputs to the pricing models for most
     over-the-counter 
    derivatives are inputs that are observable in the market or can
    be derived principally from or corroborated by observable market
    data.

F-106

Table of Contents   

MetLife,
    Inc. 

Notes to
    the Consolidated Financial
    Statements   (Continued)  

Significant inputs that are observable generally include:
    interest rates, foreign currency exchange rates, interest rate
    curves, credit curves and volatility. However, certain
     over-the-counter 
    derivatives may rely on inputs that are significant to the
    estimated fair value that are not observable in the market or
    cannot be derived principally from or corroborated by observable
    market data. Significant inputs that are unobservable generally
    include: independent broker quotes, credit correlation
    assumptions, references to emerging market currencies and inputs
    that are outside the observable portion of the interest rate
    curve, credit curve, volatility or other relevant market
    measure. These unobservable inputs may involve significant
    management judgment or estimation. Even though unobservable,
    these inputs are based on assumptions deemed appropriate given
    the circumstances and are assumed to be consistent with what
    other market participants would use when pricing such
    instruments.

The credit risk of both the counterparty and the Company are
    considered in determining the estimated fair value for all
     over-the-counter 
    derivatives, and any potential credit adjustment is based on the
    net exposure by counterparty after taking into account the
    effects of netting agreements and collateral arrangements. The
    Company values its derivative positions using the standard swap
    curve which includes a spread to the risk free rate. This credit
    spread is appropriate for those parties that execute trades at
    pricing levels consistent with the standard swap curve. As the
    Company and its significant derivative counterparties
    consistently execute trades at such pricing levels, additional
    credit risk adjustments are not currently required in the
    valuation process. The Company s ability to consistently
    execute at such pricing levels is in part due to the netting
    agreements and collateral arrangements that are in place with
    all of its significant derivative counterparties. The evaluation
    of the requirement to make additional credit risk adjustments is
    performed by the Company each reporting period.

Most inputs for
     over-the-counter 
    derivatives are mid market inputs but, in certain cases, bid
    level inputs are used when they are deemed more representative
    of exit value. Market liquidity, as well as the use of different
    methodologies, assumptions and inputs, may have a material
    effect on the estimated fair values of the Company s
    derivatives and could materially affect net income.

Embedded
    Derivatives Within Asset and Liability Host Contracts  

Embedded derivatives principally include certain direct, assumed
    and ceded variable annuity guarantees and equity or bond indexed
    crediting rates within certain funding agreements. Embedded
    derivatives are recorded in the consolidated financial
    statements at estimated fair value with changes in estimated
    fair value reported in net income.

The Company issues certain variable annuity products with
    guaranteed minimum benefit guarantees. GMWBs, GMABs and certain
    GMIBs are embedded derivatives, which are measured at estimated
    fair value separately from the host variable annuity contract,
    with changes in estimated fair value reported in net derivative
    gains (losses). These embedded derivatives are classified within
    policyholder account balances in the consolidated balance sheets.

The fair value of these guarantees is estimated using the
    present value of future benefits minus the present value of
    future fees using actuarial and capital market assumptions
    related to the projected cash flows over the expected lives of
    the contracts. A risk neutral valuation methodology is used
    under which the cash flows from the guarantees are projected
    under multiple capital market scenarios using observable risk
    free rates, currency exchange rates and observable and estimated
    implied volatilities.

The valuation of these guarantee liabilities includes
    adjustments for nonperformance risk and for a risk margin
    related to non-capital market inputs. Both of these adjustments
    are captured as components of the spread which, when combined
    with the risk free rate, is used to discount the cash flows of
    the liability for purposes of determining its fair value.

The nonperformance adjustment is determined by taking into
    consideration publicly available information relating to spreads
    in the secondary market for the Holding Company s debt,
    including related credit default swaps.

F-107

Table of Contents   

MetLife,
    Inc. 

Notes to
    the Consolidated Financial
    Statements   (Continued)  

These observable spreads are then adjusted, as necessary, to
    reflect the priority of these liabilities and the claims paying
    ability of the issuing insurance subsidiaries compared to the
    Holding Company.

Risk margins are established to capture the non-capital market
    risks of the instrument which represent the additional
    compensation a market participant would require to assume the
    risks related to the uncertainties of such actuarial assumptions
    as annuitization, premium persistency, partial withdrawal and
    surrenders. The establishment of risk margins requires the use
    of significant management judgment, including assumptions of the
    amount and cost of capital needed to cover the guarantees. These
    guarantees may be more costly than expected in volatile or
    declining equity markets. Market conditions including, but not
    limited to, changes in interest rates, equity indices, market
    volatility and foreign currency exchange rates; changes in
    nonperformance risk; and variations in actuarial assumptions
    regarding policyholder behavior, mortality and risk margins
    related to non-capital market inputs may result in significant
    fluctuations in the estimated fair value of the guarantees that
    could materially affect net income.

The Company ceded the risk associated with certain of the GMIB
    and GMAB described above. These reinsurance contracts contain
    embedded derivatives which are included in premiums, reinsurance
    and other receivables in the consolidated balance sheets with
    changes in estimated fair value reported in net derivative gains
    (losses) or policyholder benefits and claims depending on the
    statement of operations classification of the direct risk. The
    value of the embedded derivatives on the ceded risk is
    determined using a methodology consistent with that described
    previously for the guarantees directly written by the Company.

As part of its regular review of critical accounting estimates,
    the Company periodically assesses inputs for estimating
    nonperformance risk (commonly referred to as  own
    credit ) in fair value measurements. During the second
    quarter of 2010, the Company completed a study that aggregated
    and evaluated data, including historical recovery rates of
    insurance companies, as well as policyholder behavior observed
    over the past two years as the recent financial crisis evolved.
    As a result, at the end of the second quarter of 2010, the
    Company refined the way in which its insurance subsidiaries
    incorporate expected recovery rates into the nonperformance risk
    adjustment for purposes of estimating the fair value of
    investment-type contracts and embedded derivatives within
    insurance contracts. The Company recognized a loss of
    $577 million, net of DAC and income tax, relating to
    implementing the refinement at June 30, 2010. The
    refinement reduced both basic and diluted net income available
    to MetLife, Inc. s common shareholders per common share by
    $0.65 for the year ended December 31, 2010.

The estimated fair value of the embedded derivatives within
    funds withheld related to certain ceded reinsurance is
    determined based on the change in estimated fair value of the
    underlying assets held by the Company in a reference portfolio
    backing the funds withheld liability. The estimated fair value
    of the underlying assets is determined as described above in
       Fixed Maturity Securities, Equity Securities,
    Trading and Other Securities and Short-term Investments. 
    The estimated fair value of these embedded derivatives is
    included, along with their funds withheld hosts, in other
    liabilities in the consolidated balance sheets with changes in
    estimated fair value recorded in net derivative gains (losses).
    Changes in the credit spreads on the underlying assets, interest
    rates and market volatility may result in significant
    fluctuations in the estimated fair value of these embedded
    derivatives that could materially affect net income.

The estimated fair value of the embedded equity and bond indexed
    derivatives contained in certain funding agreements is
    determined using market standard swap valuation models and
    observable market inputs, including an adjustment for
    nonperformance risk. The estimated fair value of these embedded
    derivatives are included, along with their funding agreements
    host, within policyholder account balances with changes in
    estimated fair value recorded in net derivative gains (losses).
    Changes in equity and bond indices, interest rates and the
    Company s credit standing may result in significant
    fluctuations in the estimated fair value of these embedded
    derivatives that could materially affect net income.

F-108

Table of Contents   

MetLife,
    Inc. 

Notes to
    the Consolidated Financial
    Statements   (Continued)  

Separate
    Account Assets  

Separate account assets are carried at estimated fair value and
    reported as a summarized total on the consolidated balance
    sheets. The estimated fair value of separate account assets is
    based on the estimated fair value of the underlying assets owned
    by the separate account. Assets within the Company s
    separate accounts include: mutual funds, fixed maturity
    securities, equity securities, mortgage loans, derivatives,
    hedge funds, other limited partnership interests, short-term
    investments and cash and cash equivalents. See
       Valuation Techniques and Inputs by
    Level Within the Three-Level Fair Value Hierarchy by
    Major Classes of Assets and Liabilities  below for a
    discussion of the methods and assumptions used to estimate the
    fair value of these financial instruments.

Long-term
    Debt of CSEs  

The Company has elected the FVO for the long-term debt of CSEs,
    which are carried at estimated fair value. See
       Valuation Techniques and Inputs by
    Level Within the Three-Level Fair Value Hierarchy by
    Major Classes of Assets and Liabilities  below for a
    discussion of the methods and assumptions used to estimate the
    fair value of these financial instruments.

Trading
    Liabilities  

Trading liabilities are recorded at estimated fair value with
    subsequent changes in estimated fair value recognized in net
    investment income. The estimated fair value of trading
    liabilities is determined on a basis consistent with the
    methodologies described in    Fixed Maturity
    Securities, Equity Securities and Trading and Other
    Securities. 

Valuation
    Techniques and Inputs by Level Within the
    Three-Level Fair Value Hierarchy by Major Classes of Assets
    and Liabilities   

A description of the significant valuation techniques and inputs
    to the determination of estimated fair value for the more
    significant asset and liability classes measured at fair value
    on a recurring basis is as follows:

The Company determines the estimated fair value of its
    investments using primarily the market approach and the income
    approach. The use of quoted prices for identical assets and
    matrix pricing or other similar techniques are examples of
    market approaches, while the use of discounted cash flow
    methodologies is an example of the income approach. The Company
    attempts to maximize the use of observable inputs and minimize
    the use of unobservable inputs in selecting whether the market
    or income approach is used.

While certain investments have been classified as Level 1
    from the use of unadjusted quoted prices for identical
    investments supported by high volumes of trading activity and
    narrow bid/ask spreads, most investments have been classified as
    Level 2 because the significant inputs used to measure the
    fair value on a recurring basis of the same or similar
    investment are market observable or can be corroborated using
    market observable information for the full term of the
    investment. Level 3 investments include those where
    estimated fair values are based on significant unobservable
    inputs that are supported by little or no market activity and
    may reflect our own assumptions about what factors market
    participants would use in pricing these investments.

Level 1
    Measurements:  

Fixed
    Maturity Securities, Equity Securities, Trading and Other
    Securities and Short-term Investments  

These securities are comprised of U.S. Treasury, agency and
    government guaranteed fixed maturity securities, foreign
    government securities, RMBS   principally
    to-be-announced securities, exchange traded common stock,
    exchange traded mutual fund interests included in equity
    securities, exchange traded registered mutual fund interests
    included in trading and other securities and short-term money
    market securities, including U.S. Treasury bills. Valuation
    of these securities is based on unadjusted quoted prices in
    active markets that are readily and

F-109

Table of Contents   

MetLife,
    Inc. 

Notes to
    the Consolidated Financial
    Statements   (Continued)  

regularly available. Contractholder-directed unit-linked
    investments reported within trading and other securities include
    certain registered mutual fund interests priced using daily NAV
    provided by the fund managers.

Derivative
    Assets and Derivative Liabilities  

These assets and liabilities are comprised of exchange-traded
    derivatives, as well as interest rate forwards to sell certain
    to be announced securities. Valuation of these assets and
    liabilities is based on unadjusted quoted prices in active
    markets that are readily and regularly available.

Separate
    Account Assets  

These assets are comprised of securities that are similar in
    nature to the fixed maturity securities, equity securities and
    short-term investments referred to above; and certain
    exchange-traded derivatives, including financial futures and
    owned options. Valuation is based on unadjusted quoted prices in
    active markets that are readily and regularly available.

Level 2
    Measurements:  

Fixed
    Maturity Securities, Equity Securities, Trading and Other
    Securities and Short-term Investments  

This level includes fixed maturity securities and equity
    securities priced principally by independent pricing services
    using observable inputs. Trading and other securities and
    short-term investments within this level are of a similar nature
    and class to the Level 2 securities described below;
    accordingly, the valuation techniques and significant market
    standard observable inputs used in their valuation are also
    similar to those described below. Contractholder-directed
    unit-linked investments reported within trading and other
    securities include certain mutual fund interests without readily
    determinable fair values given prices are not published
    publicly. Valuation of these mutual funds is based upon quoted
    prices or reported NAV provided by the fund managers, which were
    based on observable inputs.

U.S. corporate and foreign corporate
    securities.   These securities are principally
    valued using the market and income approaches. Valuation is
    based primarily on quoted prices in markets that are not active,
    or using matrix pricing or other similar techniques that use
    standard market observable inputs such as a benchmark yields,
    spreads off benchmark yields, new issuances, issuer rating,
    duration, and trades of identical or comparable securities.
    Investment grade privately placed securities are valued using a
    discounted cash flow methodologies using standard market
    observable inputs, and inputs derived from, or corroborated by,
    market observable data including market yield curve, duration,
    call provisions, observable prices and spreads for similar
    publicly traded or privately traded issues that incorporate the
    credit quality and industry sector of the issuer. This level
    also includes certain below investment grade privately placed
    fixed maturity securities priced by independent pricing services
    that use observable inputs.

Structured securities comprised of RMBS, CMBS and
    ABS.   These securities are principally valued
    using the market approach. Valuation is based primarily on
    matrix pricing or other similar techniques using standard market
    inputs including spreads for actively traded securities, spreads
    off benchmark yields, expected prepayment speeds and volumes,
    current and forecasted loss severity, rating, weighted average
    coupon, weighted average maturity, average delinquency rates,
    geographic region, debt-service coverage ratios and
    issuance-specific information including, but not limited to:
    collateral type, payment terms of the underlying assets, payment
    priority within the tranche, structure of the security, deal
    performance and vintage of loans.

U.S. Treasury, agency and government guaranteed
    securities.   These securities are principally
    valued using the market approach. Valuation is based primarily
    on quoted prices in markets that are not active, or using matrix
    pricing or other similar techniques using standard market
    observable inputs such as benchmark U.S. Treasury yield
    curve, the spread off the U.S. Treasury curve for the
    identical security and comparable securities that are actively
    traded.

F-110

Table of Contents   

MetLife,
    Inc. 

Notes to
    the Consolidated Financial
    Statements   (Continued)  

Foreign government and state and political subdivision
    securities.   These securities are principally
    valued using the market approach. Valuation is based primarily
    on matrix pricing or other similar techniques using standard
    market observable inputs including benchmark U.S. Treasury
    or other yields, issuer ratings, broker-dealer quotes, issuer
    spreads and reported trades of similar securities, including
    those within the same
     sub-sector 
    or with a similar maturity or credit rating.

Common and non-redeemable preferred
    stock.   These securities are principally valued
    using the market approach where market quotes are available but
    are not considered actively traded. Valuation is based
    principally on observable inputs including quoted prices in
    markets that are not considered active.

Mortgage
    Loans Held by CSEs  

These commercial mortgage loans are principally valued using the
    market approach. The principal market for these commercial loan
    portfolios is the securitization market. The Company uses the
    quoted securitization market price of the obligations of the
    CSEs to determine the estimated fair value of these commercial
    loan portfolios. These market prices are determined principally
    by independent pricing services using observable inputs.

Mortgage
    Loans
     Held-For-Sale   

Residential mortgage loans
     held-for-sale 
    are principally valued using the market approach and valued
    primarily using readily available observable pricing for similar
    loans or securities backed by similar loans. The unobservable
    adjustments to such prices are insignificant.

Derivative
    Assets and Derivative Liabilities  

This level includes all types of derivative instruments utilized
    by the Company with the exception of exchange-traded derivatives
    and interest rate forwards to sell certain to be announced
    securities included within Level 1 and those derivative
    instruments with unobservable inputs as described in
    Level 3. These derivatives are principally valued using an
    income approach.

Interest
    rate contracts.  

Non-option-based   Valuations are based on present
    value techniques, which utilize significant inputs that may
    include the swap yield curve, LIBOR basis curves, and repurchase
    rates.

Option-based   Valuations are based on option pricing
    models, which utilize significant inputs that may include the
    swap yield curve, LIBOR basis curves, and interest rate
    volatility.

Foreign
    currency contracts.  

Non-option-based   Valuations are based on present
    value techniques, which utilize significant inputs that may
    include the swap yield curve, LIBOR basis curves, currency spot
    rates, and cross currency basis curves.

Option-based   Valuations are based on option pricing
    models, which utilize significant inputs that may include the
    swap yield curve, LIBOR basis curves, currency spot rates, cross
    currency basis curves, and currency volatility.

Credit
    contracts.  

Non-option-based   Valuations are based on present
    value techniques, which utilize significant inputs that may
    include the swap yield curve, credit curves, and recovery rates.

F-111

Table of Contents   

MetLife,
    Inc. 

Notes to
    the Consolidated Financial
    Statements   (Continued)  

Equity
    market contracts.  

Non-option-based   Valuations are based on present
    value techniques, which utilize significant inputs that may
    include the swap yield curve, spot equity index levels, and
    dividend yield curves.

Option-based   Valuations are based on option pricing
    models, which utilize significant inputs that may include the
    swap yield curve, spot equity index levels, dividend yield
    curves, and equity volatility.

Embedded
    Derivatives Contained in Certain Funding Agreements  

These derivatives are principally valued using an income
    approach. Valuations are based on present value techniques,
    which utilize significant inputs that may include the swap yield
    curve and the spot equity and bond index level.

Separate
    Account Assets  

These assets are comprised of investments that are similar in
    nature to the fixed maturity securities, equity securities,
    short-term investments and derivatives referred to above. Also
    included are certain mutual funds and hedge funds without
    readily determinable fair values given prices are not published
    publicly. Valuation of the mutual funds and hedge funds is based
    upon quoted prices or reported NAV provided by the fund managers.

Long-term
    Debt of CSEs  

The estimated fair value of the long-term debt of the
    Company s CSEs is based on quoted prices when traded as
    assets in active markets or, if not available, based on market
    standard valuation methodologies, consistent with the
    Company s methods and assumptions used to estimate the fair
    value of comparable fixed maturity securities.

Level 3
    Measurements:  

In general, investments classified within Level 3 use many
    of the same valuation techniques and inputs as described above.
    However, if key inputs are unobservable, or if the investments
    are less liquid and there is very limited trading activity, the
    investments are generally classified as Level 3. The use of
    independent non-binding broker quotations to value investments
    generally indicates there is a lack of liquidity or the general
    lack of transparency in the process to develop the valuation
    estimates generally causing these investments to be classified
    in Level 3.

Fixed
    Maturity Securities, Equity Securities, Trading and Other
    Securities and Short-term Investments  

This level includes fixed maturity securities and equity
    securities priced principally by independent broker quotations
    or market standard valuation methodologies using inputs that are
    not market observable or cannot be derived principally from or
    corroborated by observable market data. Trading and other
    securities and short-term investments within this level are of a
    similar nature and class to the Level 3 securities
    described below; accordingly, the valuation techniques and
    significant market standard observable inputs used in their
    valuation are also similar to those described below.

U.S. corporate and foreign corporate
    securities.   These securities, including financial
    services industry hybrid securities classified within fixed
    maturity securities, are principally valued using the market and
    income approaches. Valuations are based primarily on matrix
    pricing or other similar techniques that utilize unobservable
    inputs or cannot be derived principally from, or corroborated
    by, observable market data, including illiquidity premiums and
    spread adjustments to reflect industry trends or specific
    credit-related issues. Valuations may be based on independent
    non-binding broker quotations. Generally, below investment grade
    privately placed or distressed securities included in this level
    are valued using discounted cash flow

F-112

Table of Contents   

MetLife,
    Inc. 

Notes to
    the Consolidated Financial
    Statements   (Continued)  

methodologies which rely upon significant, unobservable inputs
    and inputs that cannot be derived principally from, or
    corroborated by, observable market data.

Structured securities comprised of RMBS, CMBS and
    ABS.   These securities are principally valued
    using the market approach. Valuation is based primarily on
    matrix pricing or other similar techniques that utilize inputs
    that are unobservable or cannot be derived principally from, or
    corroborated by, observable market data, or are based on
    independent non-binding broker quotations. Below investment
    grade securities and ABS supported by
     sub-prime 
    mortgage loans included in this level are valued based on inputs
    including quoted prices for identical or similar securities that
    are less liquid and based on lower levels of trading activity
    than securities classified in Level 2, and certain of these
    securities are valued based on independent non-binding broker
    quotations.

Foreign government and state and political subdivision
    securities.   These securities are principally
    valued using the market approach. Valuation is based primarily
    on matrix pricing or other similar techniques, however these
    securities are less liquid and certain of the inputs are based
    on very limited trading activity.

Common and non-redeemable preferred
    stock.   These securities, including privately held
    securities and financial services industry hybrid securities
    classified within equity securities, are principally valued
    using the market and income approaches. Valuations are based
    primarily on matrix pricing or other similar techniques using
    inputs such as comparable credit rating and issuance structure.
    Equity securities valuations determined with discounted cash
    flow methodologies use inputs such as earnings multiples based
    on comparable public companies, and industry-specific
    non-earnings based multiples. Certain of these securities are
    valued based on independent non-binding broker quotations.

Mortgage
    Loans  

Mortgage loans include residential mortgage loans
     held-for-sale 
    for which pricing for similar loans or securities backed by
    similar loans is not observable and the estimated fair value is
    determined using unobservable independent broker quotations or
    valuation models.

MSRs  

MSRs, which are valued using an income approach, are carried at
    estimated fair value and have multiple significant unobservable
    inputs including assumptions regarding estimates of discount
    rates, loan prepayments and servicing costs. Sales of MSRs tend
    to occur in private transactions where the precise terms and
    conditions of the sales are typically not readily available and
    observable market valuations are limited. As such, the Company
    relies primarily on a discounted cash flow model to estimate the
    fair value of the MSRs. The model requires inputs such as type
    of loan (fixed vs. variable and agency vs. other), age of loan,
    loan interest rates and current market interest rates that are
    generally observable. The model also requires the use of
    unobservable inputs including assumptions regarding estimates of
    discount rates, loan prepayments and servicing costs.

Derivative
    Assets and Derivative Liabilities  

These derivatives are principally valued using an income
    approach. Valuations of non-option-based derivatives utilize
    present value techniques, whereas valuations of option-based
    derivatives utilize option pricing models. These valuation
    methodologies generally use the same inputs as described in the
    corresponding sections above for Level 2 measurements of
    derivatives. However, these derivatives result in Level 3
    classification because one or more of the significant inputs are
    not observable in the market or cannot be derived principally
    from, or corroborated by, observable market data.

Interest
    rate contracts.  

Non-option-based   Significant unobservable inputs may
    include pull through rates on interest rate lock commitments and
    the extrapolation beyond observable limits of the swap yield
    curve and LIBOR basis curves.

F-113

Table of Contents   

MetLife,
    Inc. 

Notes to
    the Consolidated Financial
    Statements   (Continued)  

Option-based   Significant unobservable inputs may
    include the extrapolation beyond observable limits of the swap
    yield curve, LIBOR basis curves, and interest rate volatility.

Foreign
    currency contracts.  

Non-option-based   Significant unobservable inputs may
    include the extrapolation beyond observable limits of the swap
    yield curve, LIBOR basis curves and cross currency basis curves.
    Certain of these derivatives are valued based on independent
    non-binding broker quotations.

Option-based   Significant unobservable inputs may
    include currency correlation and the extrapolation beyond
    observable limits of the swap yield curve, LIBOR basis curves,
    cross currency basis curves and currency volatility.

Credit
    contracts.  

Non-option-based   Significant unobservable inputs may
    include credit correlation, repurchase rates, and the
    extrapolation beyond observable limits of the swap yield curve
    and credit curves. Certain of these derivatives are valued based
    on independent non-binding broker quotations.

Equity
    market contracts.  

Non-option-based   Significant unobservable inputs may
    include the extrapolation beyond observable limits of dividend
    yield curves.

Option-based   Significant unobservable inputs may
    include the extrapolation beyond observable limits of dividend
    yield curves and equity volatility. Certain of these derivatives
    are valued based on independent non-binding broker quotations.

Guaranteed
    Minimum Benefit Guarantees  

These embedded derivatives are principally valued using an
    income approach. Valuations are based on option pricing
    techniques, which utilize significant inputs that may include
    swap yield curve, currency exchange rates and implied
    volatilities. These embedded derivatives result in Level 3
    classification because one or more of the significant inputs are
    not observable in the market or cannot be derived principally
    from, or corroborated by, observable market data. Significant
    unobservable inputs generally include: the extrapolation beyond
    observable limits of the swap yield curve and implied
    volatilities, actuarial assumptions for policyholder behavior
    and mortality and the potential variability in policyholder
    behavior and mortality, nonperformance risk and cost of capital
    for purposes of calculating the risk margin.

Reinsurance
    Ceded on Certain Guaranteed Minimum Benefit Guarantees  

These embedded derivatives are principally valued using an
    income approach. Valuations are based on option pricing
    techniques, which utilize significant inputs that may include
    swap yield curve, currency exchange rates and implied
    volatilities. These embedded derivatives result in Level 3
    classification because one or more of the significant inputs are
    not observable in the market or cannot be derived principally
    from, or corroborated by, observable market data. Significant
    unobservable inputs generally include: the extrapolation beyond
    observable limits of the swap yield curve and implied
    volatilities, actuarial assumptions for policyholder behavior
    and mortality and the potential variability in policyholder
    behavior and mortality, counterparty credit spreads and cost of
    capital for purposes of calculating the risk margin.

Embedded
    Derivatives Within Funds Withheld Related to Certain Ceded
    Reinsurance  

These derivatives are principally valued using an income
    approach. Valuations are based on present value techniques,
    which utilize significant inputs that may include the swap yield
    curve and the fair value of assets within the

F-114

Table of Contents   

MetLife,
    Inc. 

Notes to
    the Consolidated Financial
    Statements   (Continued)  

reference portfolio. These embedded derivatives result in
    Level 3 classification because one or more of the
    significant inputs are not observable in the market or cannot be
    derived principally from, or corroborated by, observable market
    data. Significant unobservable inputs generally include: the
    fair value of certain assets within the reference portfolio
    which are not observable in the market and cannot be derived
    principally from, or corroborated by, observable market data.

Separate
    Account Assets  

These assets are comprised of investments that are similar in
    nature to the fixed maturity securities, equity securities and
    derivatives referred to above. Separate account assets within
    this level also include mortgage loans and other limited
    partnership interests. The estimated fair value of mortgage
    loans is determined by discounting expected future cash flows,
    using current interest rates for similar loans with similar
    credit risk. Other limited partnership interests are valued
    giving consideration to the value of the underlying holdings of
    the partnerships and by applying a premium or discount, if
    appropriate, for factors such as liquidity, bid/ask spreads, the
    performance record of the fund manager or other relevant
    variables which may impact the exit value of the particular
    partnership interest.

Long-term
    Debt of CSEs  

The estimated fair value of the long-term debt of the
    Company s CSEs are priced principally through independent
    broker quotations or market standard valuation methodologies
    using inputs that are not market observable or cannot be derived
    from or corroborated by observable market data.

Transfers
    between Levels 1 and 2:  

During the year ended December 31, 2010, transfers between
    Levels 1 and 2 were not significant.

Transfers
    into or out of Level 3:  

Overall, transfers into
     and/or  out
    of Level 3 are attributable to a change in the
    observability of inputs. Assets and liabilities are transferred
    into Level 3 when a significant input cannot be
    corroborated with market observable data. This occurs when
    market activity decreases significantly and underlying inputs
    cannot be observed, current prices are not available,
     and/or  when
    there are significant variances in quoted prices, thereby
    affecting transparency. Assets and liabilities are transferred
    out of Level 3 when circumstances change such that a
    significant input can be corroborated with market observable
    data. This may be due to a significant increase in market
    activity, a specific event, or one or more significant input(s)
    becoming observable. Transfers into
     and/or  out
    of any level are assumed to occur at the beginning of the
    period. Significant transfers into
     and/or  out
    of Level 3 assets and liabilities for the year ended
    December 31, 2010 are summarized below.

During the year ended December 31, 2010, fixed maturity
    securities transfers into Level 3 of $1,736 million
    and separate account assets transfers into Level 3 of
    $46 million, resulted primarily from current market
    conditions characterized by a lack of trading activity,
    decreased liquidity and credit ratings downgrades (e.g., from
    investment grade to below investment grade). These current
    market conditions have resulted in decreased transparency of
    valuations and an increased use of broker quotations and
    unobservable inputs to determine estimated fair value
    principally for certain private placements included in
    U.S. and foreign corporate securities and certain CMBS.

During the year ended December 31, 2010, fixed maturity
    securities transfers out of Level 3 of $1,683 million
    and separate account assets transfers out of Level 3 of
    $234 million, resulted primarily from increased
    transparency of both new issuances that subsequent to issuance
    and establishment of trading activity, became priced by
    independent pricing services and existing issuances that, over
    time, the Company was able to corroborate pricing received from
    independent pricing services with observable inputs or increases
    in market activity and upgraded credit ratings primarily for
    certain U.S. and foreign corporate securities, RMBS and ABS.

F-115

Table of Contents   

MetLife,
    Inc. 

Notes to
    the Consolidated Financial
    Statements   (Continued)  

A rollforward of all assets and liabilities measured at
    estimated fair value on a recurring basis using significant
    unobservable (Level 3) inputs is as follows:

F-116

Table of Contents   

MetLife,
    Inc. 

Notes to
    the Consolidated Financial
    Statements   (Continued)  

F-117

Table of Contents   

MetLife,
    Inc. 

Notes to
    the Consolidated Financial
    Statements   (Continued)  

(1)  

Amortization of premium/discount is included within net
    investment income which is reported within the earnings caption
    of total gains (losses). Impairments charged to earnings on
    securities and certain mortgage loans are included within net
    investment gains (losses) which are reported within the earnings
    caption of total gains (losses); while changes in estimated fair
    value of certain mortgage loans and MSRs are recorded in other
    revenues. Lapses associated with embedded derivatives are
    included with the earnings caption of total gains (losses). 

F-118

Table of Contents   

MetLife,
    Inc. 

Notes to
    the Consolidated Financial
    Statements   (Continued)  

(2)  

Interest and dividend accruals, as well as cash interest coupons
    and dividends received, are excluded from the rollforward. 

(3)  

The amount reported within purchases, sales, issuances and
    settlements is the purchase/issuance price (for purchases and
    issuances) and the sales/settlement proceeds (for sales and
    settlements) based upon the actual date purchased/issued or
    sold/settled. Items purchased/issued and sold/settled in the
    same period are excluded from the rollforward. For embedded
    derivatives, attributed fees are included within this caption
    along with settlements, if any. Purchases, sales, issuances and
    settlements for the year ended December 31, 2010 include
    financial instruments acquired from ALICO as follows: fixed
    maturity securities $5,435 million, equity securities
    $68 million, trading and other securities
    $582 million, short-term investments $216 million, net
    derivatives ($10) million, separate account assets
    $244 million and net embedded derivatives
    ($116) million. 

(4)  

Total gains and losses (in earnings and other comprehensive
    income (loss)) are calculated assuming transfers into and/or out
    of Level 3 occurred at the beginning of the period. Items
    transferred into and out in the same period are excluded from
    the rollforward. 

(5)  

The additions and reductions (due to loan payments and sales)
    affecting MSRs were $330 million and ($179) million,
    respectively, for the year ended December 31, 2010. The
    additions and reductions (due to loan payments) affecting MSRs
    were $628 million and ($113) million, respectively,
    for the year ended December 31, 2009. The additions and
    reductions (due to loan payments) affecting MSRs were
    $350 million and ($10) million, respectively, for the
    year ended December 31, 2008. 

(6)  

The changes in estimated fair value due to changes in valuation
    model inputs or assumptions and other changes in estimated fair
    value affecting MSRs were ($79) million, $172 million
    and ($149) million for the years ended December 31,
    2010, 2009 and 2008, respectively. 

(7)  

Freestanding derivative assets and liabilities are presented net
    for purposes of the rollforward. 

(8)  

Investment performance related to separate account assets is
    fully offset by corresponding amounts credited to
    contractholders whose liability is reflected within separate
    account liabilities. 

(9)  

Embedded derivative assets and liabilities are presented net for
    purposes of the rollforward. 

(10)  

The long-term debt at January 1, 2010 of the CSEs is
    reported within the purchases, sales, issuances and settlements
    activity column of the rollforward. 

(11)  

The impact of adoption of fair value measurement guidance
    represents the amount recognized in earnings resulting from a
    change in estimate for certain Level 3 financial
    instruments held at January 1, 2008. The net impact of
    adoption on Level 3 assets and liabilities presented in the
    table above was a $23 million increase to net assets. Such
    amount was also impacted by an increase to DAC of
    $17 million. The impact of this adoption on RGA  
    not reflected in the table above as a result of the inclusion of
    RGA in discontinued operations   was a net increase of
    $2 million (i.e., a decrease in Level 3 net
    embedded derivative liabilities of $17 million, offset by a
    DAC decrease of $15 million) for a total increase of
    $42 million in Level 3 net assets. This increase
    of $42 million, offset by a $12 million reduction in
    the estimated fair value of Level 2 freestanding
    derivatives, resulted in a total net impact of adoption of
    $30 million. 

F-119

Table of Contents   

MetLife,
    Inc. 

Notes to
    the Consolidated Financial
    Statements   (Continued)  

The tables below summarize both realized and unrealized gains
    and losses due to changes in estimated fair value recorded in
    earnings for Level 3 assets and liabilities:

Total Gains and Losses 

Classification of Realized/Unrealized Gains 

(Losses) included in Earnings 

Net 

Net 

Net 

Investment 

Derivative 

Policyholder 

Investment 

Gains 

Gains 

Other 

Benefits and 

Other 

Income 

(Losses) 

(Losses) 

Revenues 

Claims 

Expenses 

Total 

(In millions) 

Year Ended December 31, 2010: 

Assets: 

Fixed maturity securities:

U.S. corporate securities

$

22

$

(13

)

$

$

$

$

$

9

Foreign corporate securities

15

(34

)

(19

)

RMBS

36

(9

)

27

Foreign government securities

6

(5

)

1

CMBS

1

(6

)

(5

)

ABS

37

(90

)

(53

)

State and political subdivision securities

Other fixed maturity securities

1

1

Total fixed maturity securities

$

118

$

(157

)

$

$

$

$

$

(39

)

Equity securities:

Common stock

$

$

5

$

$

$

$

$

5

Non-redeemable preferred stock

46

46

Total equity securities

$

$

51

$

$

$

$

$

51

Trading and other securities:

Actively Traded Securities

$

$

$

$

$

$

$

FVO general account securities

8

8

FVO contractholder-directed unit-linked investments

(15

)

(15

)

Total trading and other securities

$

(7

)

$

$

$

$

$

$

(7

)

Short-term investments

$

2

$

$

$

$

$

$

2

Mortgage loans
     held-for-sale 

$

$

$

$

(2

)

$

$

$

(2

)

MSRs

$

$

$

$

(79

)

$

$

$

(79

)

Net derivatives:

Interest rate contracts

$

$

$

36

$

1

$

$

$

37

Foreign currency contracts

46

(4

)

42

Credit contracts

4

4

Equity market contracts

(88

)

(88

)

Total net derivatives

$

$

$

(2

)

$

1

$

$

(4

)

$

(5

)

Liabilities: 

Net embedded derivatives

$

$

$

(343

)

$

$

8

$

$

(335

)

Long-term debt of consolidated securitization entities

$

$

48

$

$

$

$

$

48

F-120

Table of Contents   

MetLife,
    Inc. 

Notes to
    the Consolidated Financial
    Statements   (Continued)  

F-121

Table of Contents   

MetLife,
    Inc. 

Notes to
    the Consolidated Financial
    Statements   (Continued)  

F-122

Table of Contents   

MetLife,
    Inc. 

Notes to
    the Consolidated Financial
    Statements   (Continued)  

The tables below summarize the portion of unrealized gains and
    losses, due to changes in estimated fair value, recorded in
    earnings for Level 3 assets and liabilities that were still
    held at the respective time periods:

F-123

Table of Contents   

MetLife,
    Inc. 

Notes to
    the Consolidated Financial
    Statements   (Continued)  

F-124

Table of Contents   

MetLife,
    Inc. 

Notes to
    the Consolidated Financial
    Statements   (Continued)  

F-125

Table of Contents   

MetLife,
    Inc. 

Notes to
    the Consolidated Financial
    Statements   (Continued)  

FVO  
    Mortgage Loans
     Held-For-Sale    

The following table presents residential mortgage loans
     held-for-sale 
    carried under the FVO at:

Residential mortgage loans
     held-for-sale 
    accounted for under the FVO are initially measured at estimated
    fair value. Interest income on residential mortgage loans
     held-for-sale 
    is recorded based on the stated rate of the loan and is recorded
    in net investment income. Gains and losses from initial
    measurement, subsequent changes in estimated fair value and
    gains or losses on sales are recognized in other revenues. Such
    changes in estimated fair value for these loans were due to the
    following:

FVO  
    Consolidated Securitization Entities   

As discussed in Note 1, upon the adoption of new guidance
    effective January 1, 2010, the Company elected fair value
    accounting for the following assets and liabilities held by
    CSEs: commercial mortgage loans, securities and long-term debt.
    Information on the estimated fair value of the securities
    classified as trading and other securities is presented in
    Note 3. The following table presents these commercial
    mortgage loans carried under the FVO at:

F-126

Table of Contents   

MetLife,
    Inc. 

Notes to
    the Consolidated Financial
    Statements   (Continued)  

The following table presents the long-term debt carried under
    the FVO related to both the commercial mortgage loans and
    securities classified as trading and other securities at:

Interest income on both commercial mortgage loans and securities
    classified as trading and other securities held by CSEs is
    recorded in net investment income. Interest expense on long-term
    debt of CSEs is recorded in other expenses. Gains and losses
    from initial measurement, subsequent changes in estimated fair
    value and gains or losses on sales of both the commercial
    mortgage loans and long-term debt are recognized in net
    investment gains (losses), which is summarized in Note 3.

Non-Recurring
    Fair Value Measurements   

Certain assets are measured at estimated fair value on a
    non-recurring basis and are not included in the tables presented
    above. The amounts below relate to certain investments measured
    at estimated fair value during the period and still held at the
    reporting dates.

(1)  

Mortgage loans    The impaired mortgage loans
    presented above were written down to their estimated fair values
    at the date the impairments were recognized and are reported as
    losses above. Subsequent improvements in estimated fair value on
    previously impaired loans recorded through a reduction in the
    previously established valuation allowance are reported as gains
    above. Estimated fair values for impaired mortgage loans are
    based on observable market prices or, if the loans are in
    foreclosure or are otherwise determined to be collateral
    dependent, on the estimated fair value of the underlying
    collateral, or the present value of the expected future cash
    flows. Impairments to estimated fair value and decreases in
    previous impairments from subsequent improvements in estimated
    fair value represent non-recurring fair value measurements that
    have been categorized as Level 3 due to the lack of price
    transparency inherent in the limited markets for such mortgage
    loans. 

(2)  

Other limited partnership interests    The
    impaired investments presented above were accounted for using
    the cost method. Impairments on these cost method investments
    were recognized at estimated fair value determined from
    information provided in the financial statements of the
    underlying entities in the period in which the impairment was
    incurred. These impairments to estimated fair value represent
    non-recurring fair value measurements that have been classified
    as Level 3 due to the limited activity and price
    transparency  

F-127

Table of Contents   

MetLife,
    Inc. 

Notes to
    the Consolidated Financial
    Statements   (Continued)  

inherent in the market for such investments. This category
    includes several private equity and debt funds that typically
    invest primarily in a diversified pool of investments across
    certain investment strategies including domestic and
    international leveraged buyout funds; power, energy, timber and
    infrastructure development funds; venture capital funds; below
    investment grade debt and mezzanine debt funds. The estimated
    fair values of these investments have been determined using the
    NAV of the Company s ownership interest in the
    partners  capital. Distributions from these investments
    will be generated from investment gains, from operating income
    from the underlying investments of the funds and from
    liquidation of the underlying assets of the funds. It is
    estimated that the underlying assets of the funds will be
    liquidated over the next 2 to 10 years. Unfunded
    commitments for these investments were $34 million at
    December 31, 2010. 

(3)  

Real estate joint ventures    The impaired
    investments presented above were accounted for using the cost
    method. Impairments on these cost method investments were
    recognized at estimated fair value determined from information
    provided in the financial statements of the underlying entities
    in the period in which the impairment was incurred. These
    impairments to estimated fair value represent non-recurring fair
    value measurements that have been classified as Level 3 due
    to the limited activity and price transparency inherent in the
    market for such investments. This category includes several real
    estate funds that typically invest primarily in commercial real
    estate. The estimated fair values of these investments have been
    determined using the NAV of the Company s ownership
    interest in the partners  capital. Distributions from these
    investments will be generated from investment gains, from
    operating income from the underlying investments of the funds
    and from liquidation of the underlying assets of the funds. It
    is estimated that the underlying assets of the funds will be
    liquidated over the next 2 to 10 years. Unfunded
    commitments for these investments were $6 million at
    December 31, 2010. 

F-128

Table of Contents   

MetLife,
    Inc. 

Notes to
    the Consolidated Financial
    Statements   (Continued)  

Fair
    Value of Financial Instruments   

Amounts related to the Company s financial instruments that
    were not measured at fair value on a recurring basis, were as
    follows:

F-129

Table of Contents   

MetLife,
    Inc. 

Notes to
    the Consolidated Financial
    Statements   (Continued)  

(1)  

Mortgage loans
     held-for-investment 
    as presented in the tables above differ from the amount
    presented in the consolidated balance sheets because these
    tables do not include commercial mortgage loans held by CSEs.
    Mortgage loans
     held-for-sale 
    as presented in the tables above differ from the amount
    presented in the consolidated balance sheets because these
    tables do not include residential mortgage loans
     held-for-sale 
    accounted for under the FVO. 

(2)  

Carrying values presented herein differ from those presented in
    the consolidated balance sheets because certain items within the
    respective financial statement caption are not considered
    financial instruments. Financial statement captions excluded
    from the table above are not considered financial instruments. 

(3)  

Short-term investments as presented in the tables above differ
    from the amounts presented in the consolidated balance sheets
    because these tables do not include short-term investments that
    meet the definition of a security, which are measured at
    estimated fair value on a recurring basis. 

(4)  

Commitments are off-balance sheet obligations. Negative
    estimated fair values represent off-balance sheet liabilities. 

F-130

Table of Contents   

MetLife,
    Inc. 

Notes to
    the Consolidated Financial
    Statements   (Continued)  

The methods and assumptions used to estimate the fair value of
    financial instruments are summarized as follows:

The assets and liabilities measured at estimated fair value on a
    recurring basis include: fixed maturity securities, equity
    securities, trading and other securities, mortgage loans held by
    CSEs, mortgage loans
     held-for-sale 
    accounted for under the FVO, MSRs, derivative assets and
    liabilities, net embedded derivatives within asset and liability
    host contracts, separate account assets, long-term debt of CSEs
    and trading liabilities. These assets and liabilities are
    described in the section    Recurring Fair Value
    Measurements  and, therefore, are excluded from the tables
    above. The estimated fair value for these financial instruments
    approximates carrying value.

Mortgage
    Loans  

These mortgage loans are principally comprised of commercial and
    agricultural mortgage loans, which are originated for investment
    purposes and are primarily carried at amortized cost.
    Residential mortgage and consumer loans are generally purchased
    from third parties for investment purposes and are principally
    carried at amortized cost, while those originated for sale and
    not carried under the FVO are carried at the lower of cost or
    estimated fair value. The estimated fair values of these
    mortgage loans are determined as follows:

Mortgage loans
     held-for-investment.   
     For commercial and agricultural mortgage loans
     held-for-investment 
    and carried at amortized cost, estimated fair value was
    primarily determined by estimating expected future cash flows
    and discounting them using current interest rates for similar
    mortgage loans with similar credit risk. For residential
    mortgage loans
     held-for-investment 
    and carried at amortized cost, estimated fair value was
    primarily determined from observable pricing for similar loans.

Mortgage loans
     held-for-sale.   
     Certain mortgage loans previously classified as
     held-for-investment 
    have been designated as
     held-for-sale. 
    For these mortgage loans, estimated fair value is determined
    using independent broker quotations or, when the mortgage loan
    is in foreclosure or otherwise determined to be collateral
    dependent, the fair value of the underlying collateral is
    estimated using internal models. For residential mortgage loans
    originated for sale, the estimated fair value is determined
    principally from observable market pricing or from internal
    models.

Policy
    Loans  

For policy loans with fixed interest rates, estimated fair
    values are determined using a discounted cash flow model applied
    to groups of similar policy loans determined by the nature of
    the underlying insurance liabilities. Cash flow estimates are
    developed applying a weighted-average interest rate to the
    outstanding principal balance of the respective group of policy
    loans and an estimated average maturity determined through
    experience studies of the past performance of policyholder
    repayment behavior for similar loans. These cash flows are
    discounted using current risk-free interest rates with no
    adjustment for borrower credit risk as these loans are fully
    collateralized by the cash surrender value of the underlying
    insurance policy. The estimated fair value for policy loans with
    variable interest rates approximates carrying value due to the
    absence of borrower credit risk and the short time period
    between interest rate resets, which presents minimal risk of a
    material change in estimated fair value due to changes in market
    interest rates.

Real
    Estate Joint Ventures and Other Limited Partnership
    Interests  

Real estate joint ventures and other limited partnership
    interests included in the preceding tables consist of those
    investments accounted for using the cost method. The remaining
    carrying value recognized in the consolidated balance sheets
    represents investments in real estate carried at cost less
    accumulated depreciation, or real estate joint ventures and
    other limited partnership interests accounted for using the
    equity method, which do not meet the definition of financial
    instruments for which fair value is required to be disclosed.

F-131

Table of Contents   

MetLife,
    Inc. 

Notes to
    the Consolidated Financial
    Statements   (Continued)  

The estimated fair values for other limited partnership
    interests and real estate joint ventures accounted for under the
    cost method are generally based on the Company s share of
    the NAV as provided in the financial statements of the
    investees. In certain circumstances, management may adjust the
    NAV by a premium or discount when it has sufficient evidence to
    support applying such adjustments.

Short-term
    Investments  

Certain short-term investments do not qualify as securities and
    are recognized at amortized cost in the consolidated balance
    sheets. For these instruments, the Company believes that there
    is minimal risk of material changes in interest rates or credit
    of the issuer such that estimated fair value approximates
    carrying value. In light of recent market conditions, short-term
    investments have been monitored to ensure there is sufficient
    demand and maintenance of issuer credit quality and the Company
    has determined additional adjustment is not required.

Other
    Invested Assets  

Other invested assets within the preceding tables are
    principally comprised of an investment in a funding agreement,
    funds withheld, various interest-bearing assets held in foreign
    subsidiaries and certain amounts due under contractual
    indemnifications.

The estimated fair value of the investment in funding agreements
    is estimated by discounting the expected future cash flows using
    current market rates and the credit risk of the note issuer. For
    funds withheld and the various interest-bearing assets held in
    foreign subsidiaries, the Company evaluates the specific facts
    and circumstances of each instrument to determine the
    appropriate estimated fair values. These estimated fair values
    were not materially different from the recognized carrying
    values.

Cash and
    Cash Equivalents  

Due to the short-term maturities of cash and cash equivalents,
    the Company believes there is minimal risk of material changes
    in interest rates or credit of the issuer such that estimated
    fair value generally approximates carrying value. In light of
    recent market conditions, cash and cash equivalent instruments
    have been monitored to ensure there is sufficient demand and
    maintenance of issuer credit quality, or sufficient solvency in
    the case of depository institutions, and the Company has
    determined additional adjustment is not required.

Accrued
    Investment Income  

Due to the short term until settlement of accrued investment
    income, the Company believes there is minimal risk of material
    changes in interest rates or credit of the issuer such that
    estimated fair value approximates carrying value. In light of
    recent market conditions, the Company has monitored the credit
    quality of the issuers and has determined additional adjustment
    is not required.

Premiums,
    Reinsurance and Other Receivables  

Premiums, reinsurance and other receivables in the preceding
    tables are principally comprised of certain amounts recoverable
    under reinsurance contracts, amounts on deposit with financial
    institutions to facilitate daily settlements related to certain
    derivative positions and amounts receivable for securities sold
    but not yet settled.

Premiums receivable and those amounts recoverable under
    reinsurance treaties determined to transfer sufficient risk are
    not financial instruments subject to disclosure and thus have
    been excluded from the amounts presented in the preceding
    tables. Amounts recoverable under ceded reinsurance contracts,
    which the Company has determined do not transfer sufficient risk
    such that they are accounted for using the deposit method of
    accounting, have been included in the preceding tables. The
    estimated fair value is determined as the present value of
    expected future cash flows under the related contracts, which
    were discounted using an interest rate determined to reflect the
    appropriate credit standing of the assuming counterparty.

F-132

Table of Contents   

MetLife,
    Inc. 

Notes to
    the Consolidated Financial
    Statements   (Continued)  

The amounts on deposit for derivative settlements essentially
    represent the equivalent of demand deposit balances and amounts
    due for securities sold are generally received over short
    periods such that the estimated fair value approximates carrying
    value. In light of recent market conditions, the Company has
    monitored the solvency position of the financial institutions
    and has determined additional adjustments are not required.

Other
    Assets  

Other assets in the preceding tables is a receivable for cash
    paid to an unaffiliated financial institution under the MetLife
    Reinsurance Company of Charleston ( MRC ) collateral
    financing arrangement as described in Note 12. With the
    exception of the receivable for cash paid to the unaffiliated
    financial institution, other assets are not considered financial
    instruments subject to disclosure. Accordingly, the amount
    presented in the preceding tables represents the receivable for
    the cash paid to the unaffiliated financial institution under
    the MRC collateral financing arrangement for which the estimated
    fair value was determined by discounting the expected future
    cash flows using a discount rate that reflects the credit rating
    of the unaffiliated financial institution.

Policyholder
    Account Balances  

Policyholder account balances in the tables above include
    investment contracts. Embedded derivatives on investment
    contracts and certain variable annuity guarantees accounted for
    as embedded derivatives are included in this caption in the
    consolidated financial statements but excluded from this caption
    in the tables above as they are separately presented in
       Recurring Fair Value Measurements.  The
    remaining difference between the amounts reflected as
    policyholder account balances in the preceding table and those
    recognized in the consolidated balance sheets represents those
    amounts due under contracts that satisfy the definition of
    insurance contracts and are not considered financial instruments.

The investment contracts primarily include certain funding
    agreements, fixed deferred annuities, modified guaranteed
    annuities, fixed term payout annuities and total control
    accounts. The fair values for these investment contracts are
    estimated by discounting best estimate future cash flows using
    current market risk-free interest rates and adding a spread to
    reflect the nonperformance risk in the liability.

Payables
    for Collateral Under Securities Loaned and Other
    Transactions  

The estimated fair value for payables for collateral under
    securities loaned and other transactions approximates carrying
    value. The related agreements to loan securities are short-term
    in nature such that the Company believes there is limited risk
    of a material change in market interest rates. Additionally,
    because borrowers are cross-collateralized by the borrowed
    securities, the Company believes no additional consideration for
    changes in nonperformance risk are necessary.

Bank
    Deposits  

Due to the frequency of interest rate resets on customer bank
    deposits held in money market accounts, the Company believes
    that there is minimal risk of a material change in interest
    rates such that the estimated fair value approximates carrying
    value. For time deposits, estimated fair values are estimated by
    discounting the expected cash flows to maturity using a discount
    rate based on an average market rate for certificates of deposit
    being offered by a representative group of large financial
    institutions at the date of the valuation.

Short-term
    and Long-term Debt, Collateral Financing Arrangements and Junior
    Subordinated Debt Securities  

The estimated fair value for short-term debt approximates
    carrying value due to the short-term nature of these
    obligations. The estimated fair values of long-term debt,
    collateral financing arrangements and junior subordinated debt
    securities are generally determined by discounting expected
    future cash flows using market rates currently available for
    debt with similar remaining maturities and reflecting the credit
    risk of the Company, including inputs

F-133

Table of Contents   

MetLife,
    Inc. 

Notes to
    the Consolidated Financial
    Statements   (Continued)  

when available, from actively traded debt of the Company or
    other companies with similar types of borrowing arrangements.
    Risk-adjusted discount rates applied to the expected future cash
    flows can vary significantly based upon the specific terms of
    each individual arrangement, including, but not limited to:
    subordinated rights; contractual interest rates in relation to
    current market rates; the structuring of the arrangement; and
    the nature and observability of the applicable valuation inputs.
    Use of different risk-adjusted discount rates could result in
    different estimated fair values.

The carrying value of long-term debt presented in the table
    above differs from the amounts presented in the consolidated
    balance sheets as it does not include capital leases which are
    not required to be disclosed at estimated fair value.

Other
    Liabilities  

Other liabilities included in the tables above reflect those
    other liabilities that satisfy the definition of financial
    instruments subject to disclosure. These items consist primarily
    of interest and dividends payable; amounts due for securities
    purchased but not yet settled; and amounts payable under certain
    assumed reinsurance treaties accounted for as deposit type
    treaties. The Company evaluates the specific terms, facts and
    circumstances of each instrument to determine the appropriate
    estimated fair values, which were not materially different from
    the carrying values.

Separate
    Account Liabilities  

Separate account liabilities included in the preceding tables
    represent those balances due to policyholders under contracts
    that are classified as investment contracts. The remaining
    amounts presented in the consolidated balance sheets represent
    those contracts classified as insurance contracts, which do not
    satisfy the definition of financial instruments.

Separate account liabilities classified as investment contracts
    primarily represent variable annuities with no significant
    mortality risk to the Company such that the death benefit is
    equal to the account balance; funding agreements related to
    group life contracts; and certain contracts that provide for
    benefit funding.

Separate account liabilities are recognized in the consolidated
    balance sheets at an equivalent value of the related separate
    account assets. Separate account assets, which equal net
    deposits, net investment income and realized and unrealized
    investment gains and losses, are fully offset by corresponding
    amounts credited to the contractholders  liability which is
    reflected in separate account liabilities. Since separate
    account liabilities are fully funded by cash flows from the
    separate account assets which are recognized at estimated fair
    value as described in the section    Recurring
    Fair Value Measurements,  the Company believes the value of
    those assets approximates the estimated fair value of the
    related separate account liabilities.

Mortgage
    Loan Commitments and Commitments to Fund Bank Credit
    Facilities, Bridge Loans and Private Corporate Bond
    Investments  

The estimated fair values for mortgage loan commitments that
    will be held for investment and commitments to fund bank credit
    facilities, bridge loans and private corporate bonds that will
    be held for investment reflected in the above tables represent
    the difference between the discounted expected future cash flows
    using interest rates that incorporate current credit risk for
    similar instruments on the reporting date and the principal
    amounts of the commitments.

F-134

Table of Contents   

MetLife,
    Inc. 

Notes to
    the Consolidated Financial
    Statements   (Continued)  

6.    

Deferred
    Policy Acquisition Costs and Value of Business
    Acquired  

Information regarding DAC and VOBA is as follows:

See Note 2 for a description of acquisitions and
    dispositions.

The estimated future amortization expense allocated to other
    expenses for the next five years for VOBA is $1,661 million
    in 2011, $1,373 million in 2012, $1,128 million in
    2013, $959 million in 2014 and $816 million in 2015.

F-135

Table of Contents   

MetLife,
    Inc. 

Notes to
    the Consolidated Financial
    Statements   (Continued)  

Amortization of DAC and VOBA is attributed to both investment
    gains and losses and to other expenses for the amount of gross
    margins or profits originating from transactions other than
    investment gains and losses. Unrealized investment gains and
    losses represent the amount of DAC and VOBA that would have been
    amortized if such gains and losses had been recognized.

Information regarding DAC and VOBA by segment and reporting unit
    is as follows:

Goodwill is the excess of cost over the estimated fair value of
    net assets acquired. Information regarding goodwill is as
    follows:

F-136

Table of Contents   

MetLife,
    Inc. 

Notes to
    the Consolidated Financial
    Statements   (Continued)  

Information regarding allocated goodwill by segment and
    reporting unit is as follows:

The above table does not include goodwill of $6,809 million
    at December 31, 2010, associated with ALICO which has not
    yet been allocated to a reporting unit due to the timing of the
    Acquisition. See Note 2 for a description of acquisitions
    and dispositions.

As described in more detail in Note 1, the Company
    performed its annual goodwill impairment tests during the third
    quarter of 2010 based upon data at June 30, 2010. The tests
    indicated that goodwill was not impaired.

Management continues to evaluate current market conditions that
    may affect the estimated fair value of the Company s
    reporting units to assess whether any goodwill impairment
    exists. Continued deteriorating or adverse market conditions for
    certain reporting units may have a significant impact on the
    estimated fair value of these reporting units and could result
    in future impairments of goodwill.

F-137

Table of Contents   

MetLife,
    Inc. 

Notes to
    the Consolidated Financial
    Statements   (Continued)  

8.    

Insurance  

Insurance
    Liabilities   

Insurance liabilities were as follows:

Value
    of Distribution Agreements and Customer Relationships
    Acquired   

Information regarding VODA and VOCRA, which are reported in
    other assets, was as follows:

The estimated future amortization expense allocated to other
    expenses for the next five years for VODA and VOCRA is
    $63 million in 2011, $74 million in 2012,
    $80 million in 2013, $84 million in 2014 and
    $82 million in 2015. See Note 2 for a description of
    acquisitions and dispositions.

F-138

Table of Contents   

MetLife,
    Inc. 

Notes to
    the Consolidated Financial
    Statements   (Continued)  

Sales
    Inducements   

Information regarding deferred sales inducements, which are
    reported in other assets, was as follows:

Separate
    Accounts   

Separate account assets and liabilities include two categories
    of account types: pass-through separate accounts totaling
    $149.2 billion and $121.4 billion at December 31,
    2010 and 2009, respectively, for which the policyholder assumes
    all investment risk, and separate accounts for which the Company
    contractually guarantees either a minimum return or account
    value to the policyholder which totaled $34.1 billion and
    $27.6 billion at December 31, 2010 and 2009,
    respectively. The latter category consisted primarily of funding
    agreements and participating close-out contracts. The average
    interest rate credited on these contracts was 3.32% and 3.35% at
    December 31, 2010 and 2009, respectively.

Fees charged to the separate accounts by the Company (including
    mortality charges, policy administration fees and surrender
    charges) are reflected in the Company s revenues as
    universal life and investment-type product policy fees and
    totaled $3.2 billion, $2.6 billion and
    $3.2 billion for the years ended December 31, 2010,
    2009 and 2008, respectively.

The Company s proportional interest in separate accounts
    was included in the consolidated balance sheets as follows at:

For the years ended December 31, 2010, 2009 and 2008, there
    were no investment gains (losses) on transfers of assets from
    the general account to the separate accounts.

Obligations
    Under Funding Agreements   

The Company issues fixed and floating rate funding agreements,
    which are denominated in either U.S. dollars or foreign
    currencies, to certain SPEs that have issued either debt
    securities or commercial paper for which payment of interest and
    principal is secured by such funding agreements. During the
    years ended December 31, 2010, 2009 and 2008, the Company
    issued $34.1 billion, $28.6 billion and
    $20.9 billion, respectively, and repaid $30.9 billion,
    $32.0 billion and $19.8 billion, respectively, of such
    funding agreements. At December 31, 2010 and 2009, funding
    agreements outstanding, which are included in policyholder
    account balances, were $27.2 billion and
    $23.3 billion, respectively. During the years ended
    December 31, 2010, 2009 and 2008, interest credited on the
    funding agreements, which is included in interest credited to
    policyholder account balances, was $0.6 billion,
    $0.7 billion and $1.1 billion, respectively.

F-139

Table of Contents   

MetLife,
    Inc. 

Notes to
    the Consolidated Financial
    Statements   (Continued)  

MetLife Insurance Company of Connecticut ( MICC ) is a
    member of the FHLB of Boston and held $70 million of common
    stock of the FHLB of Boston at both December 31, 2010 and
    2009, which is included in equity securities. MICC has also
    entered into funding agreements with the FHLB of Boston in
    exchange for cash and for which the FHLB of Boston has been
    granted a blanket lien on certain MICC assets, including RMBS,
    to collateralize MICC s obligations under the funding
    agreements. MICC maintains control over these pledged assets,
    and may use, commingle, encumber or dispose of any portion of
    the collateral as long as there is no event of default and the
    remaining qualified collateral is sufficient to satisfy the
    collateral maintenance level. Upon any event of default by MICC,
    the FHLB of Boston s recovery on the collateral is limited
    to the amount of MICC s liability to the FHLB of Boston.
    The amount of MICC s liability for funding agreements with
    the FHLB of Boston was $100 million and $326 million
    at December 31, 2010 and 2009, respectively, which is
    included in policyholder account balances. The advances on these
    funding agreements are collateralized by mortgage-backed
    securities with estimated fair values of $211 million and
    $419 million at December 31, 2010 and 2009,
    respectively. During the years ended December 31, 2010,
    2009 and 2008, interest credited on the funding agreements,
    which is included in interest credited to policyholder account
    balances, was $1 million, $6 million and
    $15 million, respectively.

Metropolitan Life Insurance Company ( MLIC ) is a
    member of the FHLB of NY and held $890 million and
    $742 million of common stock of the FHLB of NY at
    December 31, 2010 and 2009, respectively, which is included
    in equity securities. MLIC has also entered into funding
    agreements with the FHLB of NY in exchange for cash and for
    which the FHLB of NY has been granted a lien on certain MLIC
    assets, including RMBS to collateralize MLIC s obligations
    under the funding agreements. MLIC maintains control over these
    pledged assets, and may use, commingle, encumber or dispose of
    any portion of the collateral as long as there is no event of
    default and the remaining qualified collateral is sufficient to
    satisfy the collateral maintenance level. Upon any event of
    default by MLIC, the FHLB of NY s recovery on the
    collateral is limited to the amount of MLIC s liability to
    the FHLB of NY. The amount of the MLIC s liability for
    funding agreements with the FHLB of NY was $12.6 billion
    and $13.7 billion at December 31, 2010 and 2009,
    respectively, which is included in policyholder account
    balances. The advances on these agreements were collateralized
    by mortgage-backed securities with estimated fair values of
    $14.2 billion and $15.1 billion at December 31,
    2010 and 2009, respectively. During the years ended
    December 31, 2010, 2009 and 2008, interest credited on the
    funding agreements, which is included in interest credited to
    policyholder account balances, was $276 million,
    $333 million and $229 million, respectively.

During 2010, MetLife Investors Insurance Company
    ( MLIIC ) and General American Life Insurance Company
    ( GALIC ) became members of the Federal Home Loan Bank
    of Des Moines ( FHLB of Des Moines) and each held
    $10 million of common stock of the FHLB of Des Moines at
    December 31, 2010, which is included in equity securities.
    MLIIC and GALIC had no funding agreements with the FHLB of Des
    Moines at December 31, 2010.

MLIC and MICC have each issued funding agreements to certain
    SPEs that have issued debt securities for which payment of
    interest and principal is secured by such funding agreements,
    and such debt securities are also guaranteed as to payment of
    interest and principal by Farmer Mac, a federally chartered
    instrumentality of the United States. The obligations under
    these funding agreements are secured by a pledge of certain
    eligible agricultural real estate mortgage loans and may, under
    certain circumstances, be secured by other qualified collateral.
    The amount of the Company s liability for funding
    agreements issued to such SPEs was $2.8 billion and
    $2.5 billion at December 31, 2010 and 2009,
    respectively, which is included in policyholder account
    balances. The obligations under these funding agreements are
    collateralized by designated agricultural real estate mortgage
    loans with estimated fair values of $3.2 billion and
    $2.9 billion at December 31, 2010 and 2009,
    respectively. During the years ended December 31, 2010,
    2009 and 2008, interest credited on the funding agreements,
    which is included in interest credited to policyholder account
    balances, was $135 million, $132 million and
    $132 million, respectively.

F-140

Table of Contents   

MetLife,
    Inc. 

Notes to
    the Consolidated Financial
    Statements   (Continued)  

Liabilities
    for Unpaid Claims and Claim Expenses   

Information regarding the liabilities for unpaid claims and
    claim expenses relating to property and casualty, group accident
    and non-medical health policies and contracts, which are
    reported in future policy benefits and other policy-related
    balances, is as follows:

During 2010, 2009 and 2008, as a result of changes in estimates
    of insured events in the respective prior year, claims and claim
    adjustment expenses associated with prior years decreased by
    $75 million, $152 million and $353 million,
    respectively, due to a reduction in prior year automobile bodily
    injury and homeowners  severity, reduced loss adjustment
    expenses, improved loss ratio for non-medical health claim
    liabilities and improved claim management.

Guarantees   

The Company issues annuity contracts which may include
    contractual guarantees to the contractholder for:
    (i) return of no less than total deposits made to the
    contract less any partial withdrawals ( return of net
    deposits  and (ii) the highest contract value on a
    specified anniversary date minus any withdrawals following the
    contract anniversary, or total deposits made to the contract
    less any partial withdrawals plus a minimum return
    ( anniversary contract value  or  minimum
    return ). The Company also issues annuity contracts that
    apply a lower rate of funds deposited if the contractholder
    elects to surrender the contract for cash and a higher rate if
    the contractholder elects to annuitize ( two tier
    annuities ). These guarantees include benefits that are
    payable in the event of death, maturity or at annuitization.

The Company also issues universal and variable life contracts
    where the Company contractually guarantees to the contractholder
    a secondary guarantee or a guaranteed
     paid-up 
    benefit.

F-141

Table of Contents   

MetLife,
    Inc. 

Notes to
    the Consolidated Financial
    Statements   (Continued)  

Information regarding the types of guarantees relating to
    annuity contracts and universal and variable life contracts is
    as follows:

(1)  

The Company s annuity and life contracts with guarantees
    may offer more than one type of guarantee in each contract.
    Therefore, the amounts listed above may not be mutually
    exclusive. 

(2)  

The net amount at risk is based on the direct and assumed amount
    at risk (excluding ceded reinsurance). 

(3)  

The net amount at risk for guarantees of amounts in the event of
    death is defined as the current GMDB in excess of the current
    account balance at the balance sheet date. 

(4)  

The net amount at risk for guarantees of amounts at
    annuitization is defined as the present value of the minimum
    guaranteed annuity payments available to the contractholder
    determined in accordance with the terms of the contract in
    excess of the current account balance. 

(5)  

The net amount at risk for two tier annuities is based on the
    excess of the upper tier, adjusted for a profit margin, less the
    lower tier. 

F-142

Table of Contents   

MetLife,
    Inc. 

Notes to
    the Consolidated Financial
    Statements   (Continued)  

Information regarding the liabilities for guarantees (excluding
    base policy liabilities) relating to annuity and universal and
    variable life contracts is as follows:

F-143

Table of Contents   

MetLife,
    Inc. 

Notes to
    the Consolidated Financial
    Statements   (Continued)  

Account balances of contracts with insurance guarantees are
    invested in separate account asset classes as follows:

9.    

Reinsurance  

The Company participates in reinsurance activities in order to
    limit losses, minimize exposure to significant risks and provide
    additional capacity for future growth.

For its individual life insurance products, the Company has
    historically reinsured the mortality risk primarily on an excess
    of retention basis or a quota share basis. The Company currently
    reinsures 90% of the mortality risk in excess of $1 million
    for most products and reinsures up to 90% of the mortality risk
    for certain other products. In addition to reinsuring mortality
    risk as described above, the Company reinsures other risks, as
    well as specific coverages. Placement of reinsurance is done
    primarily on an automatic basis and also on a facultative basis
    for risks with specified characteristics. On a case by case
    basis, the Company may retain up to $20 million per life
    and reinsure 100% of amounts in excess of the amount the Company
    retains. The Company evaluates its reinsurance programs
    routinely and may increase or decrease its retention at any time.

For other policies within the Insurance Products segment, the
    Company generally retains most of the risk and only cedes
    particular risks on certain client arrangements.

The Company s Retirement Products segment reinsures a
    portion of the living and death benefit guarantees issued in
    connection with its variable annuities. Under these reinsurance
    agreements, the Company pays a reinsurance premium generally
    based on fees associated with the guarantees collected from
    policyholders, and receives reimbursement for benefits paid or
    accrued in excess of account values, subject to certain
    limitations.

The Company s Corporate Benefit Funding segment
    periodically engages in reinsurance activities, as considered
    appropriate. The impact of these activities on the financial
    results of this segment has not been significant.

The Company s Auto   Home segment purchases
    reinsurance to manage its exposure to large losses (primarily
    catastrophe losses) and to protect statutory surplus. The
    Company cedes to reinsurers a portion of losses and premiums
    based upon the exposure of the policies subject to reinsurance.
    To manage exposure to large property and casualty losses, the
    Company utilizes property catastrophe, casualty and property per
    risk excess of loss agreements.

For its life insurance products within the International
    segment, the Company reinsures, depending on the product, risks
    above the corporate retention limit of up to $5 million to
    external reinsurers on a yearly renewable term basis. The
    Company s international businesses may also reinsure
    certain risks with external reinsurers depending upon the nature
    of the risk and local regulatory requirements. The
    Company s International segment reinsures, for selected
    large corporate customers, its group employee benefits or credit
    insurance business with various client-affiliated reinsurance
    companies, covering policies issued to the employees or
    customers of the

F-144

Table of Contents   

MetLife,
    Inc. 

Notes to
    the Consolidated Financial
    Statements   (Continued)  

clients. Additionally, the Company cedes and assumes risk with
    other insurance companies when either company requires a
    business partner with the appropriate local licensing to issue
    certain types of policies in certain countries. In these cases,
    the assuming company typically underwrites the risks, develops
    the products and assumes most or all of the risk. The
    Company s International segment also has reinsurance
    agreements in force that reinsure a portion of the living and
    death benefit guarantees issued in connection with its variable
    annuities. Under these agreements, the Company pays reinsurance
    fees associated with the guarantees collected from
    policyholders, and receives reimbursement for benefits paid or
    accrued in excess of account values, subject to certain
    limitations.

The Company also reinsures, through 100% quota share reinsurance
    agreements, certain long-term care and workers 
    compensation business written by MICC. These are run-off
    businesses which have been included within Banking,
    Corporate   Other.

The Company has exposure to catastrophes, which could contribute
    to significant fluctuations in the Company s results of
    operations. The Company uses excess of retention and quota share
    reinsurance agreements to provide greater diversification of
    risk and minimize exposure to larger risks. For its
    International segment, the Company currently purchases
    catastrophe coverage to insure risks within certain countries
    deemed by management to be exposed to the greatest catastrophic
    risks.

The Company reinsures its business through a diversified group
    of well-capitalized, highly rated reinsurers. The Company
    analyzes recent trends in arbitration and litigation outcomes in
    disputes, if any, with its reinsurers. The Company monitors
    ratings and evaluates the financial strength of its reinsurers
    by analyzing their financial statements. In addition, the
    reinsurance recoverable balance due from each reinsurer is
    evaluated as part of the overall monitoring process.
    Recoverability of reinsurance recoverable balances is evaluated
    based on these analyses. The Company generally secures large
    reinsurance recoverable balances with various forms of
    collateral, including secured trusts, funds withheld accounts
    and irrevocable letters of credit. These reinsurance recoverable
    balances are stated net of allowances for uncollectible
    reinsurance, which at December 31, 2010 and 2009, were
    immaterial.

The Company has secured certain reinsurance recoverable balances
    with various forms of collateral, including secured trusts,
    funds withheld accounts and irrevocable letters of credit. The
    Company had $5.5 billion and $4.4 billion of unsecured
    unaffiliated reinsurance recoverable balances at
    December 31, 2010 and 2009, respectively.

At December 31, 2010, the Company had $13.1 billion of
    net unaffiliated ceded reinsurance recoverables. Of this total,
    $10.0 billion, or 76%, were with the Company s five
    largest unaffiliated ceded reinsurers, including
    $3.6 billion of which were unsecured. At December 31,
    2009, the Company had $11.7 billion of net unaffiliated
    ceded reinsurance recoverables. Of this total,
    $9.2 billion, or 79%, were with the Company s five
    largest unaffiliated ceded reinsurers, including
    $3.0 billion of which were unsecured.

The Company has reinsured with an unaffiliated third-party
    reinsurer, 49.25% of the closed block through a modified
    coinsurance agreement. The Company accounts for this agreement
    under the deposit method of accounting. The Company, having the
    right of offset, has offset the modified coinsurance deposit
    with the deposit recoverable.

F-145

Table of Contents   

MetLife,
    Inc. 

Notes to
    the Consolidated Financial
    Statements   (Continued)  

The amounts in the consolidated statements of operations include
    the impact of reinsurance. Information regarding the effect of
    reinsurance is as follows:

F-146

Table of Contents   

MetLife,
    Inc. 

Notes to
    the Consolidated Financial
    Statements   (Continued)  

The amounts in the consolidated balance sheets include the
    impact of reinsurance. Information regarding the effect of
    reinsurance is as follows:

Reinsurance agreements that do not expose the Company to a
    reasonable possibility of a significant loss from insurance risk
    are recorded using the deposit method of accounting. The deposit
    assets on ceded reinsurance were $2,530 million and
    $2,564 million at December 31, 2010 and 2009,
    respectively. The deposit liabilities for assumed reinsurance
    were $47 million and $52 million at December 31,
    2010 and 2009, respectively.

On April 7, 2000 (the  Demutualization Date ),
    MLIC converted from a mutual life insurance company to a stock
    life insurance company and became a wholly-owned subsidiary of
    MetLife, Inc. The conversion was pursuant to an order by the New
    York Superintendent of Insurance (the
     Superintendent ) approving MLIC s plan of
    reorganization, as amended (the  Plan ). On the
    Demutualization Date, MLIC established a closed block for the
    benefit of holders of certain individual life insurance policies
    of MLIC. Assets have been allocated to the closed block in an
    amount that has been determined to produce cash flows which,
    together with anticipated revenues from the policies included in
    the closed block, are reasonably expected to be sufficient to
    support obligations and

F-147

Table of Contents   

MetLife,
    Inc. 

Notes to
    the Consolidated Financial
    Statements   (Continued)  

liabilities relating to these policies, including, but not
    limited to, provisions for the payment of claims and certain
    expenses and taxes, and to provide for the continuation of
    policyholder dividend scales in effect for 1999, if the
    experience underlying such dividend scales continues, and for
    appropriate adjustments in such scales if the experience
    changes. At least annually, the Company compares actual and
    projected experience against the experience assumed in the
    then-current dividend scales. Dividend scales are adjusted
    periodically to give effect to changes in experience.

The closed block assets, the cash flows generated by the closed
    block assets and the anticipated revenues from the policies in
    the closed block will benefit only the holders of the policies
    in the closed block. To the extent that, over time, cash flows
    from the assets allocated to the closed block and claims and
    other experience related to the closed block are, in the
    aggregate, more or less favorable than what was assumed when the
    closed block was established, total dividends paid to closed
    block policyholders in the future may be greater than or less
    than the total dividends that would have been paid to these
    policyholders if the policyholder dividend scales in effect for
    1999 had been continued. Any cash flows in excess of amounts
    assumed will be available for distribution over time to closed
    block policyholders and will not be available to stockholders.
    If the closed block has insufficient funds to make guaranteed
    policy benefit payments, such payments will be made from assets
    outside of the closed block. The closed block will continue in
    effect as long as any policy in the closed block remains
    in-force. The expected life of the closed block is over
    100 years.

The Company uses the same accounting principles to account for
    the participating policies included in the closed block as it
    used prior to the Demutualization Date. However, the Company
    establishes a policyholder dividend obligation for earnings that
    will be paid to policyholders as additional dividends as
    described below. The excess of closed block liabilities over
    closed block assets at the Demutualization Date (adjusted to
    eliminate the impact of related amounts in accumulated other
    comprehensive income) represents the estimated maximum future
    earnings from the closed block expected to result from
    operations attributed to the closed block after income taxes.
    Earnings of the closed block are recognized in income over the
    period the policies and contracts in the closed block remain
    in-force. Management believes that over time the actual
    cumulative earnings of the closed block will approximately equal
    the expected cumulative earnings due to the effect of dividend
    changes. If, over the period the closed block remains in
    existence, the actual cumulative earnings of the closed block
    are greater than the expected cumulative earnings of the closed
    block, the Company will pay the excess of the actual cumulative
    earnings of the closed block over the expected cumulative
    earnings to closed block policyholders as additional
    policyholder dividends unless offset by future unfavorable
    experience of the closed block and, accordingly, will recognize
    only the expected cumulative earnings in income with the excess
    recorded as a policyholder dividend obligation. If over such
    period, the actual cumulative earnings of the closed block are
    less than the expected cumulative earnings of the closed block,
    the Company will recognize only the actual earnings in income.
    However, the Company may change policyholder dividend scales in
    the future, which would be intended to increase future actual
    earnings until the actual cumulative earnings equal the expected
    cumulative earnings.

Experience within the closed block, in particular mortality and
    investment yields, as well as realized and unrealized gains and
    losses, directly impact the policyholder dividend obligation.
    The policyholder dividend obligation increased to
    $876 million at December 31, 2010, from zero at
    December 31, 2009, as a result of recent unrealized gains
    in the closed block. Amortization of the closed block DAC, which
    resides outside of the closed block, is based upon cumulative
    actual and expected earnings within the closed block.
    Accordingly, the Company s net income continues to be
    sensitive to the actual performance of the closed block.

F-148

Table of Contents   

MetLife,
    Inc. 

Notes to
    the Consolidated Financial
    Statements   (Continued)  

Information regarding the closed block liabilities and assets
    designated to the closed block was as follows:

Information regarding the closed block policyholder dividend
    obligation was as follows:

F-149

Table of Contents   

MetLife,
    Inc. 

Notes to
    the Consolidated Financial
    Statements   (Continued)  

Information regarding the closed block revenues and expenses was
    as follows:

The change in the maximum future earnings of the closed block
    was as follows:

(1)  

The closed block adjustment represents an intra-company
    reallocation of assets which affected the closed block. The
    adjustment had no impact on the Company s consolidated
    financial statements. 

MLIC charges the closed block with federal income taxes, state
    and local premium taxes and other additive state or local taxes,
    as well as investment management expenses relating to the closed
    block as provided in the Plan. MLIC also charges the closed
    block for expenses of maintaining the policies included in the
    closed block.

F-150

Table of Contents   

MetLife,
    Inc. 

Notes to
    the Consolidated Financial
    Statements   (Continued)  

11.    

Long-term
    and Short-term Debt  

Long-term and short-term debt outstanding is as follows:

The aggregate maturities of long-term debt at December 31,
    2010 for the next five years and thereafter are
    $1,405 million in 2011, $1,520 million in 2012,
    $1,464 million in 2013, $1,653 million in 2014,
    $2,365 million in 2015 and $12,358 million thereafter.

Advances agreements and capital lease obligations are
    collateralized and rank highest in priority, followed by
    unsecured senior debt which consists of senior notes, fixed rate
    notes and other notes with varying interest rates, followed by
    subordinated debt which consists of junior subordinated debt
    securities. Payments of interest and principal on the
    Company s surplus notes, which are subordinate to all other
    obligations at the operating company level and senior to
    obligations at the Holding Company, may be made only with the
    prior approval of the insurance department of the state of
    domicile. Collateral financing arrangements are supported by
    either surplus notes of subsidiaries or financing arrangements
    with the Holding Company and, accordingly, have priority
    consistent with other such obligations.

Certain of the Company s debt instruments, credit
    facilities and committed facilities contain various
    administrative, reporting, legal and financial covenants. The
    Company believes it was in compliance with all covenants at both
    December 31, 2010 and 2009.

Senior
    Notes   Senior Debt Securities Underlying Equity
    Units   

In connection with the financing of the Acquisition (see
    Note 2) in November 2010, MetLife, Inc. issued to
    ALICO Holdings $3,000 million (estimated fair value of
    $3,011 million) in three series of Debt Securities, which
    constitute a part of the Equity Units more fully described in
    Note 14. The Debt Securities (Series C, D and
    E) are subject to remarketing, initially bear interest at
    1.56%, 1.92% and 2.46%, respectively (an average rate of 1.98%),
    and carry initial maturity dates of June 15, 2023,
    June 15, 2024 and June 15, 2045, respectively. The
    interest rates will be reset in connection with the successful
    remarketings of the Debt Securities. Prior to the first
    scheduled attempted remarketing of the Series C Debt
    Securities, such Debt Securities will be divided into two
    tranches equal in principal amount with maturity dates of
    June 15, 2018 and June 15, 2023. Prior to the first
    scheduled attempted remarketing of the Series E Debt
    Securities, such Debt Securities will be divided into two
    tranches equal in principal amount with maturity dates of
    June 15, 2018 and June 15, 2045.

F-151

Table of Contents   

MetLife,
    Inc. 

Notes to
    the Consolidated Financial
    Statements   (Continued)  

Senior
    Notes   Other   

In August 2010, in anticipation of the Acquisition, MetLife,
    Inc. issued senior notes as follows:

In connection with these offerings, MetLife, Inc. incurred
    $15 million of issuance costs which have been capitalized
    and included in other assets. These costs are being amortized
    over the terms of the senior notes.

In May 2009, MetLife, Inc. issued $1,250 million of senior
    notes due June 1, 2016. The notes bear interest at a fixed
    rate of 6.75%, payable semiannually. In connection with the
    offering, the Holding Company incurred $6 million of
    issuance costs which have been capitalized and included in other
    assets. These costs are being amortized over the term of the
    notes.

In March 2009, MetLife, Inc. issued $397 million of
    floating rate senior notes due June 29, 2012 under the FDIC
    Program. The notes bear interest at a rate equal to three-month
    LIBOR, reset quarterly, plus 0.32%. The notes are not redeemable
    prior to their maturity. In connection with the offering, the
    Holding Company incurred $15 million of issuance costs
    which have been capitalized and included in other assets. These
    costs are being amortized over the term of the notes.

In February 2009, MetLife, Inc. remarketed its existing
    $1,035 million 4.91% Series B junior subordinated debt
    securities as 7.717% senior debt securities, Series B,
    due 2019. In August 2008, the Holding Company remarketed its
    existing $1,035 million 4.82% Series A junior
    subordinated debt securities as 6.817% senior debt
    securities, Series A, due 2018. Interest on both series of
    debt securities is payable semiannually. The Series A and
    Series B junior subordinated debt securities were
    originally issued in 2005 in connection with certain common
    equity units. See Notes 13 and 14.

Advances
    from the Federal Home Loan Bank of New York   

MetLife Bank is a member of the FHLB of NY and held
    $187 million and $124 million of common stock of the
    FHLB of NY at December 31, 2010 and 2009, respectively,
    which is included in equity securities. MetLife Bank has also
    entered into advances agreements with the FHLB of NY whereby
    MetLife Bank has received cash advances and under which the FHLB
    of NY has been granted a blanket lien on certain of MetLife
    Bank s residential mortgage loans, mortgage loans
     held-for-sale, 
    commercial mortgage loans and mortgage-backed securities to
    collateralize MetLife Bank s repayment obligations. Upon
    any event of default by MetLife Bank, the FHLB of NY s
    recovery is limited to the amount of MetLife Bank s
    liability under the advances agreements. The amount of MetLife
    Bank s liability for advances from the FHLB of NY was
    $3.8 billion and $2.4 billion at December 31,
    2010 and 2009, respectively, which is included in long-term debt
    and short-term debt depending upon the original tenor of the
    advance. During the years ended December 31, 2010, 2009 and
    2008, MetLife Bank received advances related to long-term
    borrowings totaling $2,103 million, $1,280 million and
    $220 million, respectively, from the FHLB of NY. MetLife
    Bank made repayments to the FHLB of NY of $349 million,
    $497 million and $371 million related to long-term
    borrowings for the years ended December 31, 2010, 2009 and
    2008, respectively. The advances related to both long-term and
    short-term debt were collateralized by residential mortgage
    loans, mortgage loans
     held-for-sale, 

F-152

Table of Contents   

MetLife,
    Inc. 

Notes to
    the Consolidated Financial
    Statements   (Continued)  

commercial mortgage loans and mortgage-backed securities with
    estimated fair values of $7.8 billion and $5.5 billion
    at December 31, 2010 and 2009, respectively.

Collateralized
    Borrowing from the Federal Reserve Bank of New
    York   

MetLife Bank is a depository institution that is approved to use
    the Federal Reserve Bank of New York Discount Window borrowing
    privileges. In order to utilize these privileges, MetLife Bank
    has pledged qualifying loans and investment securities to the
    Federal Reserve Bank of New York as collateral. MetLife Bank had
    no liability for advances from the Federal Reserve Bank of New
    York at both December 31, 2010 and 2009. The estimated fair
    value of loan and investment security collateral pledged by
    MetLife Bank to the Federal Reserve Bank of New York at
    December 31, 2010 and 2009 was $1.8 billion and
    $1.5 billion, respectively. During the years ended
    December 31, 2009 and 2008, the weighted average interest
    rate on these advances was 0.26% and 0.79%, respectively. During
    the year ended December 31, 2009, the average daily balance
    of these advances was $1,513 million and these advances
    were outstanding for an average of 24 days. There were no
    such advances during the year ended December 31, 2010.

Short-term
    Debt   

Short-term debt with maturities of one year or less is as
    follows:

During the years ended December 31, 2010, 2009 and 2008,
    the weighted average interest rate on short-term debt was 0.35%,
    0.42% and 2.40%, respectively.

Interest
    Expense   

Interest expense related to the Company s indebtedness
    included in other expenses was $815 million,
    $713 million and $554 million for the years ended
    December 31, 2010, 2009 and 2008, respectively, and does
    not include interest expense on collateral financing
    arrangements, junior subordinated debt securities or common
    equity units. See Notes 12, 13 and 14.

Credit
    and Committed Facilities   

The Company maintains unsecured credit facilities and committed
    facilities, which aggregated $4.0 billion and
    $12.4 billion, respectively, at December 31, 2010.
    When drawn upon, these facilities bear interest at varying rates
    in accordance with the respective agreements.

Credit Facilities.   The unsecured credit
    facilities are used for general corporate purposes, to support
    the borrowers  commercial paper programs and for the
    issuance of letters of credit. Total fees expensed associated
    with

F-153

Table of Contents   

MetLife,
    Inc. 

Notes to
    the Consolidated Financial
    Statements   (Continued)  

these credit facilities were $17 million, $43 million
    and $17 million for the years ended December 31, 2010,
    2009 and 2008, respectively. Information on these credit
    facilities at December 31, 2010 is as follows:

(1)  

All borrowings under the credit agreement must be repaid by
    October 2013, except that letters of credit outstanding upon
    termination may remain outstanding until October 2014. 

Committed Facilities.   The committed facilities
    are used for collateral for certain of the Company s
    affiliated reinsurance liabilities. Total fees expensed
    associated with these committed facilities were
    $92 million, $55 million and $35 million for the
    years ended December 31, 2010, 2009 and 2008, respectively.
    Information on these committed facilities at December 31,
    2010 is as follows:

(1)  

The Holding Company is a guarantor under this agreement. 

(2)  

See also Note 24. 

As a result of the offerings of certain senior notes (see
       Senior Notes   Other ) and
    common stock (see Note 18), the commitment letter for a
    $5.0 billion senior credit facility, which the Holding
    Company signed to partially finance the Acquisition, was
    terminated. During March 2010, the Holding Company paid
    $28 million in fees related to this senior credit facility,
    all of which were expensed during the year ended
    December 31, 2010. See Note 19.

F-154

Table of Contents   

MetLife,
    Inc. 

Notes to
    the Consolidated Financial
    Statements   (Continued)  

12.    

Collateral
    Financing Arrangements  

Associated
    with the Closed Block   

In December 2007, MLIC reinsured a portion of its closed block
    liabilities to MRC, a wholly-owned subsidiary of the Company. In
    connection with this transaction, MRC issued, to investors
    placed by an unaffiliated financial institution,
    $2.5 billion in aggregate principal amount of
     35-year 
    surplus notes to provide statutory reserve support for the
    assumed closed block liabilities. Interest on the surplus notes
    accrues at an annual rate of
     3-month 
    LIBOR plus 0.55%, payable quarterly. The ability of MRC to make
    interest and principal payments on the surplus notes is
    contingent upon South Carolina regulatory approval. At both
    December 31, 2010 and 2009, the amount of the surplus notes
    outstanding was $2.5 billion.

Simultaneous with the issuance of the surplus notes, the Holding
    Company entered into an agreement with the unaffiliated
    financial institution, under which the Holding Company is
    entitled to the interest paid by MRC on the surplus notes of
     3-month 
    LIBOR plus 0.55% in exchange for the payment of
     3-month 
    LIBOR plus 1.12%, payable quarterly on such amount as adjusted,
    as described below. The Holding Company may also be required to
    pledge collateral or make payments to the unaffiliated financial
    institution related to any decline in the estimated fair value
    of the surplus notes. Any such payments would be accounted for
    as a receivable and included in other assets on the
    Company s consolidated balance sheets and would not reduce
    the principal amount outstanding of the surplus notes. Such
    payments would, however, reduce the amount of interest payments
    due from the Holding Company under the agreement. Any payment
    received from the unaffiliated financial institution would
    reduce the receivable by an amount equal to such payment and
    would also increase the amount of interest payments due from the
    Holding Company under the agreement. In addition, the
    unaffiliated financial institution may be required to pledge
    collateral to the Holding Company related to any increase in the
    estimated fair value of the surplus notes. During 2008, the
    Holding Company paid an aggregate of $800 million to the
    unaffiliated financial institution relating to declines in the
    estimated fair value of the surplus notes. The Holding Company
    did not receive any payments from the unaffiliated financial
    institution during 2008. During 2009, on a net basis, the
    Holding Company received $375 million from the unaffiliated
    financial institution related to changes in the estimated fair
    value of the surplus notes. No payments were made or received by
    the Holding Company during 2010. Since the closing of the
    collateral financing arrangement in December 2007, on a net
    basis, the Holding Company has paid $425 million to the
    unaffiliated financial institution related to changes in the
    estimated fair value of the surplus notes. In addition, at
    December 31, 2008, the Holding Company had pledged
    collateral with an estimated fair value of $230 million to
    the unaffiliated financial institution. At December 31,
    2009, the Holding Company had no collateral pledged to the
    unaffiliated financial institution in connection with this
    agreement. At December 31, 2010, the Holding Company had
    pledged collateral with an estimated fair value of
    $49 million to the unaffiliated financial institution. The
    Holding Company may also be required to make a payment to the
    unaffiliated financial institution in connection with any early
    termination of this agreement.

A majority of the proceeds from the offering of the surplus
    notes was placed in a trust, which is consolidated by the
    Company, to support MRC s statutory obligations associated
    with the assumed closed block liabilities. During 2007, MRC
    deposited $2.0 billion into the trust, from the proceeds of
    the surplus notes issued in 2007. During 2008, MRC deposited an
    additional $314 million into the trust. No amount was
    deposited into the trust during 2009. During 2010, MRC
    transferred $497 million out of the trust. At
    December 31, 2010 and 2009, the estimated fair value of
    assets held in trust by the Company was $2.0 billion and
    $2.4 billion, respectively. The assets are principally
    invested in fixed maturity securities and are presented as such
    within the Company s consolidated balance sheets, with the
    related income included within net investment income in the
    Company s consolidated statements of operations. Interest
    on the collateral financing arrangement is included as a
    component of other expenses.

Total interest expense related to the collateral financing
    arrangement was $36 million, $51 million and
    $117 million for the years ended December 31, 2010,
    2009 and 2008, respectively.

F-155

Table of Contents   

MetLife,
    Inc. 

Notes to
    the Consolidated Financial
    Statements   (Continued)  

Associated
    with Secondary Guarantees   

In May 2007, the Holding Company and MRSC, a wholly-owned
    subsidiary of the Company, entered into a
     30-year 
    collateral financing arrangement with an unaffiliated financial
    institution that provides up to $3.5 billion of statutory
    reserve support for MRSC associated with reinsurance obligations
    under intercompany reinsurance agreements. Such statutory
    reserves are associated with universal life secondary guarantees
    and are required under U.S. Valuation of Life Policies
    Model Regulation (commonly referred to as
     Regulation A-XXX). 
    At both December 31, 2010 and 2009, $2.8 billion had
    been drawn upon under the collateral financing arrangement. The
    collateral financing arrangement may be extended by agreement of
    the Holding Company and the unaffiliated financial institution
    on each anniversary of the closing.

Proceeds from the collateral financing arrangement were placed
    in trusts to support MRSC s statutory obligations
    associated with the reinsurance of secondary guarantees. The
    trusts are VIEs which are consolidated by the Company. The
    unaffiliated financial institution is entitled to the return on
    the investment portfolio held by the trusts. At
    December 31, 2010 and 2009, the Company held assets in
    trust with an estimated fair value of $3.3 billion and
    $3.2 billion, respectively, associated with the collateral
    financing arrangement. The assets are principally invested in
    fixed maturity securities and are presented as such within the
    Company s consolidated balance sheets, with the related
    income included within net investment income in the
    Company s consolidated statements of operations. Interest
    on the collateral financing arrangement is included as a
    component of other expenses.

In connection with the collateral financing arrangement, the
    Holding Company entered into an agreement with the same
    unaffiliated financial institution under which the Holding
    Company is entitled to the return on the investment portfolio
    held by the trusts established in connection with this
    collateral financing arrangement in exchange for the payment of
    a stated rate of return to the unaffiliated financial
    institution of
     3-month 
    LIBOR plus 0.70%, payable quarterly. The collateral financing
    agreement may be extended by agreement of the Holding Company
    and the unaffiliated financial institution on each anniversary
    of the closing. The Holding Company may also be required to make
    payments to the unaffiliated financial institution, for deposit
    into the trusts, related to any decline in the estimated fair
    value of the assets held by the trusts, as well as amounts
    outstanding upon maturity or early termination of the collateral
    financing arrangement. During 2010, no payments were made or
    received by the Holding Company. During 2009 and 2008, the
    Holding Company contributed $360 million and
    $320 million, respectively, as a result of declines in the
    estimated fair value of the assets in the trusts. Cumulatively,
    since May 2007, the Holding Company has contributed a total of
    $680 million as a result of declines in the estimated fair
    value of the assets in the trusts, all of which was deposited
    into the trusts.

In addition, the Holding Company may be required to pledge
    collateral to the unaffiliated financial institution under this
    agreement. At December 31, 2010 and 2009, the Holding
    Company had pledged $63 million and $80 million,
    respectively, under the agreement.

Transaction costs associated with the collateral financing
    arrangement of $5 million have been capitalized, are
    included in other assets, and are being amortized over the
    period from May 2007, the date the Holding Company entered into
    the collateral financing arrangement, to its expiration. Total
    interest expense related to the collateral financing arrangement
    was $30 million, $44 million and $107 million for
    the years ended December 31, 2010, 2009 and 2008,
    respectively.

F-156

Table of Contents   

MetLife,
    Inc. 

Notes to
    the Consolidated Financial
    Statements   (Continued)  

13.    

Junior
    Subordinated Debt Securities  

Outstanding
    Junior Subordinated Debt Securities   

Outstanding junior subordinated debt securities and trust
    securities which MetLife, Inc. will exchange for junior
    subordinated debt securities prior to redemption or repayment
    were as follows:

(1)  

MetLife Capital Trust X and MetLife Capital Trust IV
    are VIEs which are consolidated in the financial statements of
    the Company. The securities issued by these entities are
    exchangeable surplus trust securities, which will be exchanged
    for a like amount of the Holding Company s junior
    subordinated debt securities on the scheduled redemption date;
    mandatorily under certain circumstances, and at any time upon
    the Holding Company exercising its option to redeem the
    securities. The exchangeable surplus trust securities are
    classified as junior subordinated debt securities for purposes
    of financial statement presentation. 

(2)  

Prior to the scheduled redemption date, interest is payable
    semiannually in arrears. 

(3)  

In the event the securities are not redeemed on or before the
    scheduled redemption date, interest will accrue after such date
    at an annual rate of
     3-month 
    LIBOR plus a margin, payable quarterly in arrears. 

In connection with each of the securities described above, the
    Holding Company may redeem or may cause the redemption of the
    securities (i) in whole or in part, at any time on or after
    the date five years prior to the scheduled redemption date at
    their principal amount plus accrued and unpaid interest to, but
    excluding, the date of redemption, or (ii) in certain
    circumstances, in whole or in part, prior to the date five years
    prior to the scheduled redemption date at their principal amount
    plus accrued and unpaid interest to, but excluding, the date of
    redemption or, if greater, a make-whole price. The Holding
    Company also has the right to, and in certain circumstances the
    requirement to, defer interest payments on the securities for a
    period up to ten years. Interest compounds during such periods
    of deferral. If interest is deferred for more than five
    consecutive years, the Holding Company is required to use
    proceeds from the sale of its common stock or warrants on common
    stock to satisfy interest payment obligation. In connection with
    each of the securities described above, the Holding Company
    entered into a replacement capital covenant ( RCC ).
    As part of the RCC, the Holding Company agreed that it will not
    repay, redeem, or purchase the securities on or before a date
    ten years prior to the final maturity date of each issuance,
    unless, subject to certain limitations, it has received proceeds
    during a specified period from the sale of specified replacement
    securities. The RCC will terminate upon the occurrence of
    certain events, including an acceleration of the securities due
    to the occurrence of an event of default. The RCC is not
    intended for the benefit of holders of the securities and may
    not be enforced by them. The RCC is for the benefit of holders
    of one or more other designated series of the Holding
    Company s indebtedness (which will initially be its
    5.70% senior notes due June 2035). The Holding Company also
    entered into a replacement capital obligation which will
    commence during the six month period prior to the scheduled
    redemption date and under which the Holding Company must use
    reasonable commercial efforts to raise replacement capital to
    permit repayment of the securities through the issuance of
    certain qualifying capital securities.

Issuance costs associated with the issuance of the securities of
    $5 million and $8 million were incurred during the
    years ended December 31, 2009 and 2008, respectively. These
    issuance costs have been capitalized, are

F-157

Table of Contents   

MetLife,
    Inc. 

Notes to
    the Consolidated Financial
    Statements   (Continued)  

included in other assets, and are amortized over the period from
    the issuance date until the scheduled redemption date of the
    respective issuances. Interest expense on outstanding junior
    subordinated debt securities was $258 million,
    $231 million and $186 million for the years ended
    December 31, 2010, 2009 and 2008, respectively.

Junior
    Subordinated Debt Securities Underlying Common Equity
    Units   

In June 2005, the Holding Company issued $1,067 million
    4.82% Series A and $1,067 million 4.91% Series B
    junior subordinated debt securities due no later than February
    2039 and February 2040, respectively, for a total of
    $2,134 million, in exchange for $64 million in trust
    common securities of MetLife Capital Trust II
    ( Series A Trust ) and MetLife Capital
    Trust III ( Series B Trust ) and, together
    with the Series A Trust, (the  Capital Trusts ),
    both subsidiary trusts of MetLife, Inc., and $2,070 million
    in aggregate cash proceeds from the sale by the subsidiary
    trusts of trust preferred securities, constituting part of the
    common equity units. The subsidiary trusts each issued
    $1,035 million of trust preferred securities and
    $32 million of trust common securities.

In August 2008, the Series A Trust was dissolved and
    $32 million of the Series A junior subordinated debt
    securities were returned to the Holding Company concurrently
    with the cancellation of the $32 million of trust common
    securities of the Series A Trust held by MetLife, Inc. Upon
    dissolution of the Series A Trust, the remaining
    $1,035 million of Series A junior subordinated debt
    securities were distributed to the holders of the trust
    preferred securities and such trust preferred securities were
    cancelled. In connection with the remarketing transaction in
    August 2008, the remaining $1,035 million of MetLife, Inc.
    Series A junior subordinated debt securities were modified,
    as permitted by their terms, to be 6.817% senior debt
    securities, Series A, due August 2018. The Company did not
    receive any proceeds from the remarketing. See also
    Notes 11, 14 and 18.

In February 2009, the Series B Trust was dissolved and
    $32 million of the Series B junior subordinated debt
    securities were returned to the Holding Company concurrently
    with the cancellation of the $32 million of trust common
    securities of the Series B Trust held by MetLife, Inc. Upon
    dissolution of the Series B Trust, the remaining
    $1,035 million of Series B junior subordinated debt
    securities were distributed to the holders of the trust
    preferred securities and such trust preferred securities were
    cancelled. In connection with the remarketing transaction in
    February 2009, the remaining $1,035 million of MetLife,
    Inc. Series B junior subordinated debt securities were
    modified, as permitted by their terms, to be 7.717% senior
    debt securities, Series B, due February 2019. The Company
    did not receive any proceeds from the remarketing. See also
    Notes 11, 14 and 18.

Interest expense on the junior subordinated debt securities
    underlying the common equity units was $6 million and
    $84 million for the years ended December 31, 2009 and
    2008, respectively. There was no interest expense on the junior
    subordinated debt securities underlying the common equity units
    for the year ended December 31, 2010.

Acquisition
    of ALICO   

In connection with the financing of the Acquisition (see
    Note 2) in November 2010, MetLife, Inc. issued to
    ALICO Holdings 40.0 million Equity Units with an aggregate
    stated amount at issuance of $3,000 million and an
    estimated fair value of $3,189 million. Each Equity Unit
    has an initial stated amount of $75 per unit and initially
    consists of: (i) three Purchase Contracts, each of which
    obligates the holder to purchase, on a subsequent settlement
    date, a variable number of shares of MetLife, Inc. common stock,
    par value $0.01 per share, for a purchase price of $25 ($75 in
    the aggregate); and (ii) a
     1 / 40 
    undivided beneficial ownership interest in each of three series
    of Debt Securities issued by MetLife, Inc., each series of Debt
    Securities having an aggregate principal amount of
    $1,000 million. Distributions on the Equity Units will be
    made quarterly, and will consist of contract payments on the
    Purchase Contracts and interest payments on the Debt Securities,
    at an aggregate annual rate of 5.00% of the stated amount at any
    time. The excess of the estimated fair value of the Equity Units
    over the estimated fair value of the Debt Securities (see
    Note 11), after accounting for the present value of future
    contract payments recorded in

F-158

Table of Contents   

MetLife,
    Inc. 

Notes to
    the Consolidated Financial
    Statements   (Continued)  

other liabilities, results in a net decrease to additional
    paid-in capital of $69 million, representing the fair value
    of the Purchase Contracts discussed below.

The Equity Units, the Debt Securities and the common stock
    issuable upon settlement of the Purchase Contracts are subject
    to the terms of an investor rights agreement entered into among
    MetLife, Inc., AIG and ALICO Holdings, which grants to ALICO
    Holdings certain rights and sets forth certain agreements with
    respect to ALICO Holdings  ownership, voting and transfer
    of the shares, including minimum holding periods, restrictions
    on the number of shares ALICO Holdings can sell at one time, its
    agreement to vote the common stock in the same proportion as the
    common stock voted by all other holders and its agreement not to
    seek control or influence the Company s management or Board
    of Directors. The Equity Units are not listed on any exchange or
    inter-dealer quotation system. The Equity Units have been
    pledged to secure certain indemnification obligations of ALICO
    Holdings under the Stock Purchase Agreement. See Note 2.

Purchase
    Contracts  

Settlement of the Purchase Contracts of each series will occur
    upon the successful remarketing of the related series of Debt
    Securities, or upon a final failed remarketing of the related
    series, as described below under    Debt
    Securities.  On each settlement date subsequent to a
    successful remarketing, the holder will pay $25 per Equity Unit
    and MetLife, Inc. will issue to such holder a variable number of
    shares of its common stock in settlement of the applicable
    Purchase Contract. The number of shares to be issued will depend
    on the average of the daily volume-weighted average prices of
    MetLife, Inc. s common stock during the 20 trading day
    periods ending on, and including, the third day prior to the
    initial scheduled settlement date for each series of Purchase
    Contracts. The initially-scheduled settlement dates are
    October 10, 2012 for the Series C Purchase Contracts,
    September 11, 2013 for the Series D Purchase Contracts
    and October 8, 2014 for the Series E Purchase
    Contracts. If the average value of MetLife, Inc. s common
    stock as calculated pursuant to the Stock Purchase Agreement
    during the applicable 20 trading day period is less than or
    equal to $35.42, as such amount may be adjusted (the
     Reference Price ), the number of shares to be issued
    in settlement of the Purchase Contract will equal $25 divided by
    the Reference Price, as calculated pursuant to the Stock
    Purchase Agreement (the  Maximum Settlement Rate ). If
    the market value of MetLife, Inc. s common stock is greater
    than or equal to $44.275, as such amount may be adjusted (the
     Threshold Appreciation Price ), the number of shares
    to be issued in settlement of the Purchase Contract will equal
    $25 divided by the Threshold Appreciation Price, as so
    calculated (the  Minimum Settlement Rate ). If the
    market value of MetLife, Inc. s common stock is greater
    than the Reference Price and less than the Threshold
    Appreciation Price, the number of shares to be issued will equal
    $25 divided by the applicable market value, as so calculated. In
    the event of an unsuccessful remarketing of any series of Debt
    Securities and the postponement of settlement to a later date,
    the average market value used to calculate the settlement rate
    for a particular series will not be recalculated, although
    certain corporate events may require adjustments to the
    settlement rate. After settlement of all the Purchase Contracts,
    MetLife, Inc. will receive proceeds of $3,000 million and
    issue between 67.8 million and 84.7 million shares of
    its common stock, subject to certain adjustments. The holder of
    an Equity Unit may, at its option, settle the related Purchase
    Contracts before the applicable settlement date. However, upon
    early settlement, the holder will receive the Minimum Settlement
    Rate.

Distributions on the Purchase Contracts will be made quarterly
    at an average annual rate of 3.02%. The value of the Purchase
    Contracts at issuance of $247 million was calculated as the
    present value of the future contract payments and was recorded
    in other liabilities with an offsetting decrease in additional
    paid-in capital. The other liabilities balance will be reduced
    as contract payments are made. For the year ended
    December 31, 2010, no contract payments were made.

Debt
    Securities  

The Debt Securities are senior, unsecured notes of MetLife, Inc.
    which, in the aggregate, pay quarterly distributions at an
    initial average annual rate of 1.98% and are included in
    long-term debt (see Note 11 for further

F-159

Table of Contents   

MetLife,
    Inc. 

Notes to
    the Consolidated Financial
    Statements   (Continued)  

discussion of terms). The Debt Securities will be initially
    pledged as collateral to secure the obligations of each Equity
    Unit holder under the related Purchase Contracts. Each series of
    the Debt Securities will be subject to a remarketing and sold on
    behalf of participating holders to investors. The proceeds of a
    remarketing, net of any related fees, will be applied on behalf
    of participating holders who so elect to settle any obligation
    of the holder to pay cash under the related Purchase Contract on
    the applicable settlement dates. The initially-scheduled
    remarketing dates are October 10, 2012 for the
    Series C Debt Securities, September 11, 2013 for the
    Series D Debt Securities and October 8, 2014 for the
    Series E Debt Securities, subject to delay if there are one
    or more unsuccessful remarketings. If the initial attempted
    remarketing of a series is unsuccessful, up to two additional
    remarketing attempts will occur. At the remarketing date, the
    remarketing agent may reset the interest rate on the Debt
    Securities, subject to a reset cap for each of the first two
    attempted remarketings of each series. If a remarketing is
    successful, the reset rate will apply to all outstanding Debt
    Securities of the applicable tranche of the remarketed series,
    whether or not the holder participated in the remarketing and
    will become effective on the settlement date of such
    remarketing. If the first remarketing attempt with respect to a
    series is unsuccessful, the applicable Purchase Contract
    settlement date will be delayed for three calendar months, at
    which time a second remarketing attempt will occur in connection
    with settlement. If the second remarketing attempt is
    unsuccessful, one additional delay may occur on the same basis.
    If both additional remarketing attempts are unsuccessful, a
     final failed remarketing  will have occurred, and the
    interest rate on such series of Debt Securities will not be
    reset and the holder may put such series of Debt Securities to
    MetLife, Inc. at a price equal to its principal amount plus
    accrued and unpaid interest, if any, and apply the principal
    amount against the holder s obligations under the related
    Purchase Contract.

Earnings
    Per Common Share  

The treasury stock method is used to determine the potential
    dilution of the Purchase Contracts on earnings per common share.
    There was no dilution associated with the Purchase Contracts for
    the year ended December 31, 2010.

Acquisition
    of The Travelers Insurance Company  

In connection with financing the acquisition of The Travelers
    Insurance Company on July 1, 2005, the Holding Company
    distributed and sold 82.8 million 6.375% common equity
    units for $2,070 million in proceeds in a registered public
    offering on June 21, 2005. The common equity units
    consisted of interests in trust preferred securities issued by
    MetLife Capital Trusts II and III, and stock purchase
    contracts issued by the Holding Company. The only assets of
    MetLife Capital Trusts II and III were junior
    subordinated debt securities issued by the Holding Company. The
    common equity units ceased to exist upon the closing of the
    remarketing of the underlying debt instruments and the
    settlement of the stock purchase contracts in August 2008 and
    February 2009. See Notes 13 and 18.

F-160

Table of Contents   

MetLife,
    Inc. 

Notes to
    the Consolidated Financial
    Statements   (Continued)  

The provision for income tax from continuing operations was as
    follows:

The reconciliation of the income tax provision at the
    U.S. statutory rate to the provision for income tax as
    reported for continuing operations was as follows:

F-161

Table of Contents   

MetLife,
    Inc. 

Notes to
    the Consolidated Financial
    Statements   (Continued)  

Deferred income tax represents the tax effect of the differences
    between the book and tax basis of assets and liabilities. Net
    deferred income tax assets and liabilities consisted of the
    following:

Domestic net operating loss carryforwards of $2,181 million
    at December 31, 2010 will expire beginning in 2020. State
    net operating loss carryforwards of $123 million at
    December 31, 2010 will expire beginning in 2011. Foreign
    net operating loss carryforwards of $2,132 million at
    December 31, 2010 were generated in various foreign
    countries with expiration periods of five years to indefinite
    expiration. Domestic capital loss carryforwards of
    $1,130 million at December 31, 2010 will expire
    beginning in 2011. Foreign capital loss carryforwards of
    $35 million at December 31, 2010 will expire beginning
    in 2014. Tax credit carryforwards were $459 million at
    December 31, 2010.

The Company has recorded a valuation allowance related to tax
    benefits of certain state and foreign net operating and capital
    loss carryforwards and certain foreign unrealized losses. The
    valuation allowance reflects management s assessment, based
    on available information, that it is more likely than not that
    the deferred income tax asset for certain foreign net operating
    and capital loss carryforwards and certain foreign unrealized
    losses will not be realized. The tax benefit will be recognized
    when management believes that it is more likely than not that
    these deferred income tax assets are realizable. In 2010, the
    Company recorded an overall increase to the deferred tax
    valuation allowance of $44 million, comprised of a decrease
    of $2 million related to certain foreign unrealized losses,
    an increase of $18 million related to certain foreign
    capital loss carryforwards, an increase of $28 million
    related to certain state and foreign net operating loss
    carryforwards.

The Company has not provided U.S. deferred taxes on
    cumulative earnings of certain
     non-U.S. affiliates 
    and associated companies that have been reinvested indefinitely.
    These earnings relate to ongoing operations and have

F-162

Table of Contents   

MetLife,
    Inc. 

Notes to
    the Consolidated Financial
    Statements   (Continued)  

been reinvested in active
     non-U.S. business 
    operations. The Company does not intend to repatriate these
    earnings to fund U.S. operations. Deferred taxes are
    provided for earnings of
     non-U.S. affiliates 
    and associated companies when the Company plans to remit those
    earnings. At December 31, 2010, the Company has not made a
    provision for U.S. taxes on approximately
    $1,045 million of the excess of the amount for financial
    reporting over the tax basis of investments in foreign
    subsidiaries that are essentially permanent in duration. It is
    not practicable to estimate the amount of deferred tax liability
    related to investments in these foreign subsidiaries.

The Company files income tax returns with the U.S. federal
    government and various state and local jurisdictions, as well as
    foreign jurisdictions. The Company is under continuous
    examination by the IRS and other tax authorities in
    jurisdictions in which the Company has significant business
    operations. The income tax years under examination vary by
    jurisdiction. With a few exceptions, the Company is no longer
    subject to U.S. federal, state and local, or foreign income
    tax examinations by tax authorities for years prior to 2000. In
    early 2009, the Company and the IRS completed and substantially
    settled the audit years of 2000 to 2002. A few issues not
    settled have been escalated to the next level, IRS Appeals. In
    April 2010, the IRS exam of the current audit cycle, years 2003
    to 2006 began.

The Company s liability for unrecognized tax benefits may
    decrease in the next 12 months pending the outcome of
    remaining issues, tax-exempt income and tax credits associated
    with the 2000 to 2002 IRS audit. A reasonable estimate of the
    decrease cannot be made at this time. However, the Company
    continues to believe that the ultimate resolution of the issues
    will not result in a material change to its consolidated
    financial statements, although the resolution of income tax
    matters could impact the Company s effective tax rate for a
    particular future period.

The Company classifies interest accrued related to unrecognized
    tax benefits in interest expense, included within other
    expenses, while penalties are included in income tax expense.

At December 31, 2010, the Company s total amount of
    unrecognized tax benefits was $810 million and the total
    amount of unrecognized tax benefits that would affect the
    effective tax rate, if recognized, was $536 million. The
    total amount of unrecognized tax benefits increased by
    $37 million from December 31, 2009 primarily due to
    increases for tax positions of prior years offset by reductions
    for tax positions of prior years and settlements reached with
    the IRS. The increases for tax positions of prior years included
    $169 million from the acquisition of American Life.
    Settlements with tax authorities amounted to $59 million,
    all of which was reclassified to current and deferred income tax
    payable, as applicable, with $3 million paid in 2010.

At December 31, 2009, the Company s total amount of
    unrecognized tax benefits was $773 million and the total
    amount of unrecognized tax benefits that would affect the
    effective tax rate, if recognized, was $583 million. The
    total amount of unrecognized tax benefits increased by
    $7 million from December 31, 2008 primarily due to
    additions for tax positions of the current and prior years
    offset by settlements reached with the IRS. Settlements with tax
    authorities amounted to $46 million, of which
    $44 million was reclassified to current income tax payable
    and paid in 2009 and $2 million reduced current income tax
    expense.

At December 31, 2008, the Company s total amount of
    unrecognized tax benefits was $766 million and the total
    amount of unrecognized tax benefits that would affect the
    effective tax rate, if recognized, was $567 million. The
    total amount of unrecognized tax benefits decreased by
    $74 million from December 31, 2007 primarily due to
    settlements reached with the IRS with respect to certain
    significant issues involving demutualization, leasing and tax
    credits offset by additions for tax positions of the current
    year. As a result of the settlements, items within the liability
    for unrecognized tax benefits, in the amount of
    $153 million, were reclassified to current and deferred
    income tax payable, as applicable, of which $20 million was
    paid in 2008 and $133 million was paid in 2009.

F-163

Table of Contents   

MetLife,
    Inc. 

Notes to
    the Consolidated Financial
    Statements   (Continued)  

A reconciliation of the beginning and ending amount of
    unrecognized tax benefits was as follows:

During the year ended December 31, 2010, the Company
    recognized $39 million in interest expense associated with
    the liability for unrecognized tax benefits. At
    December 31, 2010, the Company had $221 million of
    accrued interest associated with the liability for unrecognized
    tax benefits. The $23 million increase from
    December 31, 2009 in accrued interest associated with the
    liability for unrecognized tax benefits resulted primarily from
    an increase of $20 million from the acquisition of American
    Life, along with an increase of $39 million of interest
    expense and a $36 million decrease primarily resulting from
    the aforementioned IRS settlements. Of the $36 million
    decrease, $18 million has been reclassified to current
    income tax payable, of which $2 million was paid in 2010.
    The remaining $18 million reduced interest expense.

During the year ended December 31, 2009, the Company
    recognized $44 million in interest expense associated with
    the liability for unrecognized tax benefits. At
    December 31, 2009, the Company had $198 million of
    accrued interest associated with the liability for unrecognized
    tax benefits. The $22 million increase from
    December 31, 2008 in accrued interest associated with the
    liability for unrecognized tax benefits resulted from an
    increase of $44 million of interest expense and a
    $22 million decrease primarily resulting from the
    aforementioned IRS settlements. Of the $22 million
    decrease, $20 million was reclassified to current income
    tax payable and was paid in 2009. The remaining $2 million
    reduced interest expense.

During the year ended December 31, 2008, the Company
    recognized $37 million in interest expense associated with
    the liability for unrecognized tax benefits. At
    December 31, 2008, the Company had $176 million of
    accrued interest associated with the liability for unrecognized
    tax benefits. The $42 million decrease from
    December 31, 2007 in accrued interest associated with the
    liability for unrecognized tax benefits resulted from an
    increase of $37 million of interest expense and a
    $79 million decrease primarily resulting from the
    aforementioned IRS settlements. Of the $79 million
    decrease, $78 million was reclassified to current income
    tax payable in 2008, with $7 million and $71 million
    paid in 2008 and 2009, respectively. The remaining
    $1 million reduced interest expense.

The U.S. Treasury Department and the IRS have indicated
    that they intend to address through regulations the methodology
    to be followed in determining the dividends received deduction
    ( DRD ), related to variable life insurance and
    annuity contracts. The DRD reduces the amount of dividend income
    subject to tax and is a significant component of the difference
    between the actual tax expense and expected amount determined
    using the federal statutory tax rate of 35%. Any regulations
    that the IRS ultimately proposes for issuance in this area will
    be subject to public notice and comment, at which time insurance
    companies and other interested parties will have the opportunity
    to raise legal and practical questions about the content, scope
    and application of such regulations. As a result, the ultimate
    timing and substance of any such regulations are unknown at this
    time. For the years ended December 31, 2010 and 2009, the
    Company recognized an income tax benefit of $87 million and
    $216 million, respectively, related to the separate account
    DRD. The 2010 benefit included an expense of $57 million
    related to a

F-164

Table of Contents   

MetLife,
    Inc. 

Notes to
    the Consolidated Financial
    Statements   (Continued)  

true-up  of
    the 2009 tax return. The 2009 benefit included a benefit of
    $33 million related to a true up of the 2008 tax return.

16.    

Contingencies,
    Commitments and Guarantees  

Contingencies  

Litigation   

The Company is a defendant in a large number of litigation
    matters. In some of the matters, very large
     and/or 
    indeterminate amounts, including punitive and treble damages,
    are sought. Modern pleading practice in the United States
    permits considerable variation in the assertion of monetary
    damages or other relief. Jurisdictions may permit claimants not
    to specify the monetary damages sought or may permit claimants
    to state only that the amount sought is sufficient to invoke the
    jurisdiction of the trial court. In addition, jurisdictions may
    permit plaintiffs to allege monetary damages in amounts well
    exceeding reasonably possible verdicts in the jurisdiction for
    similar matters. This variability in pleadings, together with
    the actual experience of the Company in litigating or resolving
    through settlement numerous claims over an extended period of
    time, demonstrates to management that the monetary relief which
    may be specified in a lawsuit or claim bears little relevance to
    its merits or disposition value.

Due to the vagaries of litigation, the outcome of a litigation
    matter and the amount or range of potential loss at particular
    points in time may normally be difficult to ascertain.
    Uncertainties can include how fact finders will evaluate
    documentary evidence and the credibility and effectiveness of
    witness testimony, and how trial and appellate courts will apply
    the law in the context of the pleadings or evidence presented,
    whether by motion practice, or at trial or on appeal.
    Disposition valuations are also subject to the uncertainty of
    how opposing parties and their counsel will themselves view the
    relevant evidence and applicable law.

On a quarterly and annual basis, the Company reviews relevant
    information with respect to litigation and contingencies to be
    reflected in the Company s consolidated financial
    statements. The review includes senior legal and financial
    personnel. Estimates of possible losses or ranges of loss for
    particular matters cannot in the ordinary course be made with a
    reasonable degree of certainty. Liabilities are established when
    it is probable that a loss has been incurred and the amount of
    the loss can be reasonably estimated. Liabilities have been
    established for a number of the matters noted below. It is
    possible that some of the matters could require the Company to
    pay damages or make other expenditures or establish accruals in
    amounts that could not be estimated at December 31, 2010.

Asbestos-Related
    Claims  

MLIC is and has been a defendant in a large number of
    asbestos-related suits filed primarily in state courts. These
    suits principally allege that the plaintiff or plaintiffs
    suffered personal injury resulting from exposure to asbestos and
    seek both actual and punitive damages. MLIC has never engaged in
    the business of manufacturing, producing, distributing or
    selling asbestos or asbestos-containing products nor has MLIC
    issued liability or workers  compensation insurance to
    companies in the business of manufacturing, producing,
    distributing or selling asbestos or asbestos-containing
    products. The lawsuits principally have focused on allegations
    with respect to certain research, publication and other
    activities of one or more of MLIC s employees during the
    period from the 1920 s through approximately the
    1950 s and allege that MLIC learned or should have learned
    of certain health risks posed by asbestos and, among other
    things, improperly publicized or failed to disclose those health
    risks. MLIC believes that it should not have legal liability in
    these cases. The outcome of most asbestos litigation matters,
    however, is uncertain and can be impacted by numerous variables,
    including differences in legal rulings in various jurisdictions,
    the nature of the alleged injury and factors unrelated to the
    ultimate legal merit of the claims asserted against MLIC. MLIC
    employs a number of resolution strategies to manage its asbestos
    loss exposure, including seeking resolution of pending
    litigation by judicial rulings and settling individual or groups
    of claims or lawsuits under appropriate circumstances.

F-165

Table of Contents   

MetLife,
    Inc. 

Notes to
    the Consolidated Financial
    Statements   (Continued)  

Claims asserted against MLIC have included negligence,
    intentional tort and conspiracy concerning the health risks
    associated with asbestos. MLIC s defenses (beyond denial of
    certain factual allegations) include that: (i) MLIC owed no
    duty to the plaintiffs  it had no special relationship
    with the plaintiffs and did not manufacture, produce, distribute
    or sell the asbestos products that allegedly injured plaintiffs;
    (ii) plaintiffs did not rely on any actions of MLIC;
    (iii) MLIC s conduct was not the cause of the
    plaintiffs  injuries; (iv) plaintiffs  exposure
    occurred after the dangers of asbestos were known; and
    (v) the applicable time with respect to filing suit has
    expired. During the course of the litigation, certain trial
    courts have granted motions dismissing claims against MLIC,
    while other trial courts have denied MLIC s motions to
    dismiss. There can be no assurance that MLIC will receive
    favorable decisions on motions in the future. While most cases
    brought to date have settled, MLIC intends to continue to defend
    aggressively against claims based on asbestos exposure,
    including defending claims at trials.

The approximate total number of asbestos personal injury claims
    pending against MLIC as of the dates indicated, the approximate
    number of new claims during the years ended on those dates and
    the approximate total settlement payments made to resolve
    asbestos personal injury claims at or during those years are set
    forth in the following table:

(1)  

Settlement payments represent payments made by MLIC during the
    year in connection with settlements made in that year and in
    prior years. Amounts do not include MLIC s attorneys 
    fees and expenses and do not reflect amounts received from
    insurance carriers. 

In 2007, MLIC received approximately 7,161 new claims, ending
    the year with a total of approximately 79,717 claims, and paid
    approximately $28.2 million for settlements reached in 2007
    and prior years. In 2006, MLIC received approximately 7,870 new
    claims, ending the year with a total of approximately 87,070
    claims, and paid approximately $35.5 million for
    settlements reached in 2006 and prior years. In 2005, MLIC
    received approximately 18,500 new claims, ending the year with a
    total of approximately 100,250 claims, and paid approximately
    $74.3 million for settlements reached in 2005 and prior
    years. In 2004, MLIC received approximately 23,900 new claims,
    ending the year with a total of approximately 108,000 claims,
    and paid approximately $85.5 million for settlements
    reached in 2004 and prior years. In 2003, MLIC received
    approximately 58,750 new claims, ending the year with a total of
    approximately 111,700 claims, and paid approximately
    $84.2 million for settlements reached in 2003 and prior
    years. The number of asbestos cases that may be brought, the
    aggregate amount of any liability that MLIC may incur, and the
    total amount paid in settlements in any given year are uncertain
    and may vary significantly from year to year.

The ability of MLIC to estimate its ultimate asbestos exposure
    is subject to considerable uncertainty, and the conditions
    impacting its liability can be dynamic and subject to change.
    The availability of reliable data is limited and it is difficult
    to predict with any certainty the numerous variables that can
    affect liability estimates, including the number of future
    claims, the cost to resolve claims, the disease mix and severity
    of disease in pending and future claims, the impact of the
    number of new claims filed in a particular jurisdiction and
    variations in the law in the jurisdictions in which claims are
    filed, the possible impact of tort reform efforts, the
    willingness of courts to allow plaintiffs to pursue claims
    against MLIC when exposure to asbestos took place after the
    dangers of asbestos exposure were well known, and the impact of
    any possible future adverse verdicts and their amounts.

The ability to make estimates regarding ultimate asbestos
    exposure declines significantly as the estimates relate to years
    further in the future. In the Company s judgment, there is
    a future point after which losses cease to be probable and
    reasonably estimable. It is reasonably possible that the
    Company s total exposure to asbestos claims

F-166

Table of Contents   

MetLife,
    Inc. 

Notes to
    the Consolidated Financial
    Statements   (Continued)  

may be materially greater than the asbestos liability currently
    accrued and that future charges to income may be necessary.
    While the potential future charges could be material in the
    particular quarterly or annual periods in which they are
    recorded, based on information currently known by management,
    management does not believe any such charges are likely to have
    a material adverse effect on the Company s financial
    position.

During 1998, MLIC paid $878 million in premiums for excess
    insurance policies for asbestos-related claims. The excess
    insurance policies for asbestos-related claims provided for
    recovery of losses up to $1.5 billion in excess of a
    $400 million self-insured retention. The Company s
    initial option to commute the excess insurance policies for
    asbestos-related claims would have arisen at the end of 2008. On
    September 29, 2008, MLIC entered into agreements commuting
    the excess insurance policies at September 30, 2008. As a
    result of the commutation of the policies, MLIC received cash
    and securities totaling $632 million. Of this total, MLIC
    received $115 million in fixed maturity securities on
    September 26, 2008, $200 million in cash on
    October 29, 2008, and $317 million in cash on
    January 29, 2009. MLIC recognized a loss on commutation of
    the policies in the amount of $35.3 million during 2008.

In the years prior to commutation, the excess insurance policies
    for asbestos-related claims were subject to annual and per claim
    sublimits. Amounts exceeding the sublimits during 2007, 2006 and
    2005 were approximately $16 million, $8 million and
    $0, respectively. Amounts were recoverable under the policies
    annually with respect to claims paid during the prior calendar
    year. Each asbestos-related policy contained an experience fund
    and a reference fund that provided for payments to MLIC at the
    commutation date if the reference fund was greater than zero at
    commutation or pro rata reductions from time to time in the loss
    reimbursements to MLIC if the cumulative return on the reference
    fund was less than the return specified in the experience fund.
    The return in the reference fund was tied to performance of the
    S P 500 Index and the Lehman Brothers Aggregate Bond Index.
    A claim with respect to the prior year was made under the excess
    insurance policies in each year from 2003 through 2008 for the
    amounts paid with respect to asbestos litigation in excess of
    the retention. The foregone loss reimbursements were
    approximately $62.2 million with respect to claims for the
    period of 2002 through 2007. Because the policies were commuted
    at September 30, 2008, there will be no claims under the
    policies or forgone loss reimbursements with respect to payments
    made in 2008 and thereafter.

The Company believes adequate provision has been made in its
    consolidated financial statements for all probable and
    reasonably estimable losses for asbestos-related claims.
    MLIC s recorded asbestos liability is based on its
    estimation of the following elements, as informed by the facts
    presently known to it, its understanding of current law and its
    past experiences: (i) the probable and reasonably estimable
    liability for asbestos claims already asserted against MLIC,
    including claims settled but not yet paid; (ii) the
    probable and reasonably estimable liability for asbestos claims
    not yet asserted against MLIC, but which MLIC believes are
    reasonably probable of assertion; and (iii) the legal
    defense costs associated with the foregoing claims. Significant
    assumptions underlying MLIC s analysis of the adequacy of
    its recorded liability with respect to asbestos litigation
    include: (i) the number of future claims; (ii) the
    cost to resolve claims; and (iii) the cost to defend claims.

MLIC reevaluates on a quarterly and annual basis its exposure
    from asbestos litigation, including studying its claims
    experience, reviewing external literature regarding asbestos
    claims experience in the United States, assessing relevant
    trends impacting asbestos liability and considering numerous
    variables that can affect its asbestos liability exposure on an
    overall or per claim basis. These variables include bankruptcies
    of other companies involved in asbestos litigation, legislative
    and judicial developments, the number of pending claims
    involving serious disease, the number of new claims filed
    against it and other defendants and the jurisdictions in which
    claims are pending. As previously disclosed, in 2002 MLIC
    increased its recorded liability for asbestos-related claims by
    $402 million from approximately $820 million to
    $1,225 million. Based upon its regular reevaluation of its
    exposure from asbestos litigation, MLIC has updated its
    liability analysis for asbestos-related claims through
    December 31, 2010.

F-167

Table of Contents   

MetLife,
    Inc. 

Notes to
    the Consolidated Financial
    Statements   (Continued)  

Regulatory
    Matters  

The Company receives and responds to subpoenas or other
    inquiries from state regulators, including state insurance
    commissioners; state attorneys general or other state
    governmental authorities; federal regulators, including the SEC;
    federal governmental authorities, including congressional
    committees; and the Financial Industry Regulatory Authority
    ( FINRA ) seeking a broad range of information. The
    issues involved in information requests and regulatory matters
    vary widely. The Company cooperates in these inquiries.

Attorneys general from 50 states and several state banking
    and mortgage regulators announced a multistate joint
    investigation of mortgage servicers to determine whether
    inaccurate affidavits or other documents were submitted in
    support of foreclosure proceedings. MetLife Bank, and
    specifically its mortgage servicing department within MetLife
    Home Loans, received requests for information from some of these
    state attorneys general and other regulators. Also, the Acting
    Comptroller of the Currency disclosed in testimony before
    Congress that 14 mortgage servicing businesses affiliated with
    banking organizations, including that of MetLife Bank, have been
    the subject of an intra-agency confidential  horizontal
    examination  of mortgage servicing and foreclosure
    activities. The Acting Comptroller also testified that federal
    banking regulators expect to issue administrative enforcement
    orders to such businesses and to seek civil money penalties. The
    Acting Comptroller s testimony also indicated that other
    federal agencies, including the Department of Justice and the
    Federal Trade Commission, were examining potential actions with
    respect to such businesses. MetLife is cooperating with its
    regulators in connection with their review of these matters but
    cannot predict the outcome of these matters. It is possible that
    additional state or federal regulators or legislative bodies may
    pursue similar investigations or make related inquiries.
    Management believes that the Company s financial statements
    as a whole will not be materially affected by the MetLife Bank
    regulatory matters.

United States of America v. EME Homer City Generation,
    L.P., et al. (W.D. Pa., filed January 4,
    2011).   On January 4, 2011, the United States
    commenced a civil action in United States District Court for the
    Western District of Pennsylvania against EME Homer City
    Generation L.P. ( EME Homer City ), Homer City OL6
    LLC, and other defendants regarding the operations of the Homer
    City Generating Station, an electricity generating facility.
    Homer City OL6 LLC, an entity owned by MLIC, is a passive
    investor with a noncontrolling interest in the electricity
    generating facility, which is solely operated by the lessee, EME
    Homer City. The complaint seeks injunctive relief and assessment
    of civil penalties for alleged violations of the federal Clean
    Air Act and Pennsylvania s State Implementation Plan. The
    alleged violations were the subject of Notices of Violations
    ( NOVs ) that the Environmental Protection Agency
    ( EPA ) issued to EME Homer City, Homer City OL6 LLC,
    and others in June 2008 and May 2010. On January 7, 2011,
    the United States District Court for the Western District of
    Pennsylvania granted the motion by the Pennsylvania Department
    of Environmental Protection and the State of New York to
    intervene in the lawsuit as additional plaintiffs. On
    January 7, 2011, two plaintiffs filed a putative class
    action titled  Scott Jackson and Maria Jackson v. EME
    Homer City Generation L.P., et. al.  in the United States
    District Court for the Western District of Pennsylvania on
    behalf of a putative class of persons who have allegedly
    incurred damage to their persons
     and/or 
    property because of the violations alleged in the action brought
    by the United States. Homer City OL6 LLC is a defendant in this
    action. EME Homer City has acknowledged its obligation to
    indemnify Homer City OL6 LLC for any claims relating to the NOVs.

In the Matter of Chemform, Inc. Site, Pompano Beach, Broward
    County, Florida.   In July 2010, the EPA advised
    MLIC that it believed payments were due under two settlement
    agreements, known as  Administrative Orders on
    Consent,  that New England Mutual Life Insurance Company
    ( New England Mutual ) signed in 1989 and 1992 with
    respect to the cleanup of a Superfund site in Florida (the
     Chemform Site ). The EPA originally contacted MLIC
    (as successor to New England Mutual) and a third party in 2001,
    and advised that they owed additional
     clean-up 
    costs for the Chemform Site. The matter was not resolved at that
    time. The EPA is requesting payment of an amount under
    $1 million from MLIC and a third party for past costs and
    for future environmental testing costs at the Chemform Site.

Regulatory authorities in a small number of states and FINRA,
    and occasionally the SEC, have had investigations or inquiries
    relating to sales of individual life insurance policies or
    annuities or other products

F-168

Table of Contents   

MetLife,
    Inc. 

Notes to
    the Consolidated Financial
    Statements   (Continued)  

by MLIC, MICC, New England Life Insurance Company and GALIC, and
    the four Company broker-dealers, which are MetLife Securities,
    Inc. ( MSI ), New England Securities Corporation,
    Walnut Street Securities, Inc. and Tower Square Securities, Inc.
    These investigations often focus on the conduct of particular
    financial services representatives and the sale of unregistered
    or unsuitable products or the misuse of client assets. Over the
    past several years, these and a number of investigations by
    other regulatory authorities were resolved for monetary payments
    and certain other relief, including restitution payments. The
    Company may continue to resolve investigations in a similar
    manner. The Company believes adequate provision has been made in
    its consolidated financial statements for all probable and
    reasonably estimable losses for these sales practices-related
    investigations or inquiries.

Retained
    Asset Account Matters  

The New York Attorney General announced on July 29, 2010
    that his office had launched a major fraud investigation into
    the life insurance industry for practices related to the use of
    retained asset accounts as a settlement option for death
    benefits and that subpoenas requesting comprehensive data
    related to retained asset accounts had been served on MetLife
    and other insurance carriers. The Company received the subpoena
    on July 30, 2010. The Company also has received requests
    for documents and information from U.S. congressional
    committees and members as well as various state regulatory
    bodies, including the New York Insurance Department. It is
    possible that other state and federal regulators or legislative
    bodies may pursue similar investigations or make related
    inquiries. Management cannot predict what effect any such
    investigations might have on the Company s earnings or the
    availability of the Company s retained asset account known
    as the Total Control Account ( TCA ), but management
    believes that the Company s consolidated financial
    statements taken as a whole would not be materially affected.
    Management believes that any allegations that information about
    the TCA is not adequately disclosed or that the accounts are
    fraudulent or otherwise violate state or federal laws are
    without merit.

MLIC is a defendant in lawsuits related to the TCA. The lawsuits
    include claims of breach of contract, breach of a common law
    fiduciary duty or a quasi-fiduciary duty such as a confidential
    or special relationship, or breach of a fiduciary duty under the
    Employee Retirement Income Security Act of 1974
    ( ERISA ).

Clark, et al. v. Metropolitan Life Insurance Company (D.
    Nev., filed March 28, 2008).   This putative
    class action lawsuit alleges breach of contract and breach of a
    common law fiduciary
     and/or 
    quasi-fiduciary duty arising from use of the TCA to pay life
    insurance policy death benefits. As damages, plaintiffs seek
    disgorgement of the difference between the interest paid to the
    account holders and the investment earnings on the assets
    backing the accounts. In March 2009, the court granted in part
    and denied in part MLIC s motion to dismiss,
    dismissing the fiduciary duty and unjust enrichment claims but
    allowing a breach of contract claim and a special or
    confidential relationship claim to go forward. On
    September 9, 2010, the court granted MLIC s motion for
    summary judgment. On September 20, 2010, plaintiff filed a
    Notice of Appeal to the United States Court of Appeals for the
    Ninth Circuit.

Faber, et al. v. Metropolitan Life Insurance Company
    (S.D.N.Y., filed December 4, 2008).   This
    putative class action lawsuit alleges that MLIC s use of
    the TCA as the settlement option under group life insurance
    policies violates MLIC s fiduciary duties under ERISA. As
    damages, plaintiffs seek disgorgement of the difference between
    the interest paid to the account holders and the investment
    earnings on the assets backing the accounts. On October 23,
    2009, the court granted MLIC s motion to dismiss with
    prejudice. On November 24, 2009, plaintiffs filed a Notice
    of Appeal to the United States Court of Appeals for the Second
    Circuit.

Keife, et al. v. Metropolitan Life Insurance Company  (D.
    Nev., filed in state court on July 30, 2010 and removed to
    federal court on September 7, 2010). This putative class
    action lawsuit raises a breach of contract claim arising from
    MLIC s use of the TCA to pay life insurance benefits under
    the Federal Employees  Group Life Insurance program. As
    damages, plaintiffs seek disgorgement of the difference between
    the interest paid to the account holders and the investment
    earnings on the assets backing the accounts. In September 2010,
    plaintiffs filed a motion for class certification of the breach
    of contract claim, which the court has stayed. On
    November 22, 2010, MLIC filed a motion to dismiss.

F-169

Table of Contents   

MetLife,
    Inc. 

Notes to
    the Consolidated Financial
    Statements   (Continued)  

Other
    U.S. Litigation  

Travelers Ins. Co., et al. v. Banc of America Securities
    LLC (S.D.N.Y., filed December 13, 2001).   On
    January 6, 2009, after a jury trial ,  the district
    court entered a judgment in favor of The Travelers Insurance
    Company, now known as MICC, in the amount of approximately
    $42 million in connection with securities and common law
    claims against the defendant. On May 14, 2009, the district
    court issued an opinion and order denying the defendant s
    post judgment motion seeking a judgment in its favor or, in the
    alternative, a new trial. On July 20, 2010, the United
    States Court of Appeals for the Second Circuit issued an order
    affirming the district court s judgment in favor of MICC
    and the district court s order denying defendant s
    post-trial motions. On October 14, 2010, the Second Circuit
    issued an order denying defendant s petition for rehearing
    of its appeal. On October 20, 2010, the defendant paid MICC
    approximately $42 million, which represents the judgment
    amount due to MICC. This lawsuit is now fully resolved.

Roberts, et al. v. Tishman Speyer Properties, et al.
    (Sup. Ct., N.Y. County, filed January 22, 2007) . This
    lawsuit was filed by a putative class of market rate tenants at
    Stuyvesant Town and Peter Cooper Village against parties
    including Metropolitan Tower Life Insurance Company
    ( MTL ) and Metropolitan Insurance and Annuity
    Company. Metropolitan Insurance and Annuity Company has merged
    into MTL and no longer exists as a separate entity. These
    tenants claim that MTL, as former owner, and the current owner
    improperly deregulated apartments while receiving J-51 tax
    abatements. The lawsuit seeks declaratory relief and damages for
    rent overcharges. Although the tenants allege over
    $200 million in damages in the complaint, MTL strongly
    disputes the tenants  damages amounts. In October 2009, the
    New York State Court of Appeals issued an opinion denying
    MTL s motion to dismiss the complaint. The lawsuit has
    returned to the trial court where MTL continues to vigorously
    defend against the claims. The Company believes adequate
    provision has been made in its consolidated financial statements
    for all probable and reasonably estimable losses for this
    lawsuit. It is reasonably possible that the Company s total
    exposure may be greater than the liability currently accrued and
    that future charges to income may be necessary. Management
    believes that the Company s financial statements as a whole
    will not be materially affected by any such future charges.

Thomas, et al. v. Metropolitan Life Ins. Co., et al. (W.D.
    Okla., filed January 31, 2007).   A putative
    class action complaint was filed against MLIC and MSI.
    Plaintiffs asserted legal theories of violations of the federal
    securities laws and violations of state laws with respect to the
    sale of certain proprietary products by the Company s
    agency distribution group. Plaintiffs sought rescission,
    compensatory damages, interest, punitive damages and
    attorneys  fees and expenses. In August 2009, the district
    court granted defendants  motion for summary judgment. On
    February 2, 2011, the United States Court of Appeals for
    the Tenth Circuit affirmed the judgment of the district court
    granting MLIC s and MSI s summary judgment motion.

Sales Practices Claims.   Over the past several
    years, the Company has faced numerous claims, including class
    action lawsuits, alleging improper marketing or sales of
    individual life insurance policies, annuities, mutual funds or
    other products. Some of the current cases seek substantial
    damages, including punitive and treble damages and
    attorneys  fees. The Company continues to vigorously defend
    against the claims in these matters. The Company believes
    adequate provision has been made in its consolidated financial
    statements for all probable and reasonably estimable losses for
    sales practices matters.

International
    Litigation  

Sun Life Assurance Company of Canada v. Metropolitan
    Life Ins. Co. (Super. Ct., Ontario, October
    2006).   In 2006, Sun Life Assurance Company of
    Canada ( Sun Life ), as successor to the purchaser of
    MLIC s Canadian operations, filed this lawsuit in Toronto,
    seeking a declaration that MLIC remains liable for  market
    conduct claims  related to certain individual life
    insurance policies sold by MLIC and that have been transferred
    to Sun Life. Sun Life had asked that the court require MLIC to
    indemnify Sun Life for these claims pursuant to indemnity
    provisions in the sale agreement for the sale of MLIC s
    Canadian operations entered into in June of 1998. In January
    2010, the court found that Sun Life had given timely notice of
    its claim for indemnification but, because it found

F-170

Table of Contents   

MetLife,
    Inc. 

Notes to
    the Consolidated Financial
    Statements   (Continued)  

that Sun Life had not yet incurred an indemnifiable loss,
    granted MLIC s motion for summary judgment. Both parties
    appealed. In September 2010, Sun Life notified MLIC that a
    purported class action lawsuit was filed against Sun Life in
    Toronto,  Kang v. Sun Life Assurance Co. (Super. Ct.,
    Ontario, September 2010) , alleging sales practices claims
    regarding the same individual policies sold by MLIC and
    transferred to Sun Life. Sun Life contends that MLIC is
    obligated to indemnify Sun Life for some or all of the claims in
    this lawsuit. MLIC is currently not a party to the
     Kang v. Sun Life  lawsuit.

Italy Fund Redemption Suspension Complaints and
    Litigation.   As a result of suspension of
    withdrawals and diminution in value in certain funds offered
    within certain unit-linked policies sold by the Italian branch
    of Alico Life International, Ltd. ( ALIL ), a number
    of policyholders invested in those funds have either commenced
    or threatened litigation against ALIL, alleging
    misrepresentation, inadequate disclosures and other related
    claims. These policyholders contacted ALIL beginning in July
    2009 alleging that the funds operated at variance to the
    published prospectus and that prospectus risk disclosures were
    allegedly wrong, unclear, and misleading. The limited number of
    lawsuits that have been filed to date have either been resolved
    or are proceeding through litigation. In March 2010, ALIL
    learned that the public prosecutor in Milan had opened a formal
    investigation into the actions of ALIL employees, as well as of
    employees of ALIL s major distributor, based upon a
    policyholder complaint. The complaint filed by the policyholder
    has now been withdrawn. ALIL is cooperating with the Italian and
    Irish regulatory authorities, which have jurisdiction in
    connection with this matter. The Stock Purchase Agreement
    includes a provision pursuant to which the Holding Company and
    certain related parties may seek indemnification for liabilities
    in excess of an agreed upon amount arising out of certain
    specified policyholder claims and governmental investigations in
    connection with the above-mentioned unit-linked policies. See
    also  Indemnification Assets and Contingent
    Consideration  in Note 2.

Summary  

Putative or certified class action litigation and other
    litigation and claims and assessments against the Company, in
    addition to those discussed previously and those otherwise
    provided for in the Company s consolidated financial
    statements, have arisen in the course of the Company s
    business, including, but not limited to, in connection with its
    activities as an insurer, mortgage lending bank, employer,
    investor, investment advisor and taxpayer. Further, state
    insurance regulatory authorities and other federal and state
    authorities regularly make inquiries and conduct investigations
    concerning the Company s compliance with applicable
    insurance and other laws and regulations.

It is not possible to predict the ultimate outcome or provide
    reasonable ranges of potential losses of all pending
    investigations and legal proceedings. In some of the matters
    referred to previously, very large
     and/or 
    indeterminate amounts, including punitive and treble damages,
    are sought. Although in light of these considerations it is
    possible that an adverse outcome in certain cases could have a
    material adverse effect upon the Company s financial
    position, based on information currently known by the
    Company s management, in its opinion, the outcomes of such
    pending investigations and legal proceedings are not likely to
    have such an effect. However, given the large
     and/or 
    indeterminate amounts sought in certain of these matters and the
    inherent unpredictability of litigation, it is possible that an
    adverse outcome in certain matters could, from time to time,
    have a material adverse effect on the Company s
    consolidated net income or cash flows in particular quarterly or
    annual periods.

Insolvency
    Assessments   

Most of the jurisdictions in which the Company is admitted to
    transact business require insurers doing business within the
    jurisdiction to participate in guaranty associations, which are
    organized to pay contractual benefits owed pursuant to insurance
    policies issued by impaired, insolvent or failed insurers. These
    associations levy assessments, up to prescribed limits, on all
    member insurers in a particular state on the basis of the
    proportionate share of the premiums written by member insurers
    in the lines of business in which the impaired, insolvent or
    failed insurer engaged. Some states permit member insurers to
    recover assessments paid through full or partial premium tax

F-171

Table of Contents   

MetLife,
    Inc. 

Notes to
    the Consolidated Financial
    Statements   (Continued)  

offsets. In addition, Japan has established a Policyholder
    Protection Commission as a contingency to protect policyholders
    against the insolvency of life insurance companies in Japan
    through assessments to companies licensed to provide life
    insurance.

Assets and liabilities held for insolvency assessments were as
    follows:

(1)  

The Company holds a receivable from the seller of a prior
    acquisition in accordance with the purchase agreement. 

Assessments levied against the Company were $4 million,
    $2 million and $2 million for the years ended
    December 31, 2010, 2009 and 2008, respectively.

Argentina   

The Argentine economic, regulatory and legal environment,
    including interpretations of laws and regulations by regulators
    and courts, is uncertain. Potential legal or governmental
    actions related to pension reform, fiduciary responsibilities,
    performance guarantees and tax rulings could adversely affect
    the results of the Company.

In 2007, pension reform legislation in Argentina was enacted
    which relieved the Company of its obligation to provide death
    and disability policy coverages and resulted in the elimination
    of related insurance liabilities. The reform reinstituted the
    government s pension plan system and allowed for pension
    participants to transfer their future contributions to the
    government pension plan system.

Although it no longer received compensation, the Company
    continued to be responsible for managing the funds of those
    participants that transferred to the government system. This
    change resulted in the establishment of a liability for future
    servicing obligations and the elimination of the Company s
    obligations under death and disability policy coverages. During
    2008, the future servicing obligation was reduced by
    $23 million, net of income tax, when information regarding
    the level of participation in the government pension plan became
    fully available.

In September 2008, the Argentine Supreme Court ruled against the
    validity of the 2002 Pesification Law enacted by the Argentine
    government. This ruling applied to certain social security
    pension annuity contractholders that had filed a lawsuit against
    the 2002 Pesification Law. The annuity contracts impacted by
    this ruling, which were deemed peso denominated under the 2002
    Pesification Law, are now considered to be U.S. dollar
    denominated obligations of the Company. The applicable
    contingent liabilities were then adjusted and refined to be
    consistent with this ruling. The impact of the refinements
    resulting from the change in these contingent liabilities and
    the associated future policyholder benefits was an increase to
    net income of $34 million, net of income tax, during the
    year ended December 31, 2008.

In October 2008, the Argentine government announced its
    intention to nationalize private pensions and, in December 2008,
    the Argentine government nationalized the private pension system
    seizing the underlying investments of participants which were
    being managed by the Company. With this action, the
    Company s

F-172

Table of Contents   

MetLife,
    Inc. 

Notes to
    the Consolidated Financial
    Statements   (Continued)  

pension business in Argentina ceased to exist and the Company
    eliminated certain assets and liabilities held in connection
    with the pension business. Deferred acquisition costs, deferred
    tax assets, and liabilities   primarily the liability
    for future servicing obligation referred to above  
    were eliminated and the Company incurred severance costs
    associated with the termination of employees. The impact of the
    elimination of assets and liabilities and the incurral of
    severance costs was an increase to net income of
    $6 million, net of income tax, during the year ended
    December 31, 2008.

In March 2009, in light of market developments resulting from
    the Supreme Court ruling contrary to the Pesification Law and
    the implementation by the Company of a program to allow the
    contractholders that had not filed a lawsuit to convert to
    U.S. dollars the social security annuity contracts
    denominated in pesos by the Pesification Law, the Company
    further reduced the outstanding contingent liabilities by
    $108 million, net of income tax, which was partially offset
    by the establishment of contingent liabilities from the
    implementation of the program to convert these contracts to
    U.S. dollars of $13 million, net of income tax,
    resulting in a decrease to net loss of $95 million, net of
    income tax, for the year ended December 31, 2009.

Further governmental or legal actions are possible in Argentina.
    Such actions may impact the level of existing liabilities or may
    create additional obligations or benefits to the Company s
    operations in Argentina. Management has made its best estimate
    of its obligations based upon information currently available;
    however, further governmental or legal actions could result in
    changes in obligations which could materially impact the amounts
    presented within the consolidated financial statements.

Commitments  

Leases   

In accordance with industry practice, certain of the
    Company s income from lease agreements with retail tenants
    are contingent upon the level of the tenants  revenues.
    Additionally, the Company, as lessee, has entered into various
    lease and sublease agreements for office space, information
    technology and other equipment. Future minimum rental and
    sublease income, and minimum gross rental payments relating to
    these lease agreements are as follows:

During 2008, the Company moved certain of its operations in New
    York from Long Island City, Queens to Manhattan. As a result of
    this movement of operations and current market conditions, which
    precluded the Company s immediate and complete sublet of
    all unused space in both Long Island City and Manhattan, the
    Company incurred a lease impairment charge of $38 million
    which is included within other expenses in Banking,
    Corporate   Other. The impairment charge was
    determined based upon the present value of the gross rental
    payments less sublease income discounted at a risk-adjusted rate
    over the remaining lease terms which range from
     15-20 years. 
    The Company has made assumptions with respect to the timing and
    amount of future sublease income in the determination of this
    impairment charge. During 2009, pending sublease deals were
    impacted by the further decline of market conditions, which
    resulted in an additional lease impairment charge of
    $52 million. See Note 19

F-173

Table of Contents   

MetLife,
    Inc. 

Notes to
    the Consolidated Financial
    Statements   (Continued)  

for discussion of $28 million of such charges related to
    restructuring. Additional impairment charges could be incurred
    should market conditions deteriorate further or last for a
    period significantly longer than anticipated.

Commitments
    to Fund Partnership Investments   

The Company makes commitments to fund partnership investments in
    the normal course of business. The amounts of these unfunded
    commitments were $3.8 billion and $4.1 billion at
    December 31, 2010 and 2009, respectively. The Company
    anticipates that these amounts will be invested in partnerships
    over the next five years.

Mortgage
    Loan Commitments   

The Company has issued interest rate lock commitments on certain
    residential mortgage loan applications totaling
    $2.5 billion and $2.7 billion at December 31,
    2010 and 2009, respectively. The Company intends to sell the
    majority of these originated residential mortgage loans.
    Interest rate lock commitments to fund mortgage loans that will
    be
     held-for-sale 
    are considered derivatives and their estimated fair value and
    notional amounts are included within interest rate forwards in
    Note 4.

The Company also commits to lend funds under certain other
    mortgage loan commitments that will be
     held-for-investment. 
    The amounts of these mortgage loan commitments were
    $3.8 billion and $2.2 billion at December 31,
    2010 and 2009, respectively.

Commitments
    to Fund Bank Credit Facilities, Bridge Loans and Private
    Corporate Bond Investments   

The Company commits to lend funds under bank credit facilities,
    bridge loans and private corporate bond investments. The amounts
    of these unfunded commitments were $2.4 billion and
    $1.3 billion at December 31, 2010 and 2009,
    respectively.

Guarantees   

In the normal course of its business, the Company has provided
    certain indemnities, guarantees and commitments to third parties
    pursuant to which it may be required to make payments now or in
    the future. In the context of acquisition, disposition,
    investment and other transactions, the Company has provided
    indemnities and guarantees, including those related to tax,
    environmental and other specific liabilities and other
    indemnities and guarantees that are triggered by, among other
    things, breaches of representations, warranties or covenants
    provided by the Company. In addition, in the normal course of
    business, the Company provides indemnifications to
    counterparties in contracts with triggers similar to the
    foregoing, as well as for certain other liabilities, such as
    third-party lawsuits. These obligations are often subject to
    time limitations that vary in duration, including contractual
    limitations and those that arise by operation of law, such as
    applicable statutes of limitation. In some cases, the maximum
    potential obligation under the indemnities and guarantees is
    subject to a contractual limitation ranging from less than
    $1 million to $800 million, with a cumulative maximum
    of $1.6 billion, while in other cases such limitations are
    not specified or applicable. Since certain of these obligations
    are not subject to limitations, the Company does not believe
    that it is possible to determine the maximum potential amount
    that could become due under these guarantees in the future.
    Management believes that it is unlikely the Company will have to
    make any material payments under these indemnities, guarantees,
    or commitments.

In addition, the Company indemnifies its directors and officers
    as provided in its charters and by-laws. Also, the Company
    indemnifies its agents for liabilities incurred as a result of
    their representation of the Company s interests. Since
    these indemnities are generally not subject to limitation with
    respect to duration or amount, the Company does not believe that
    it is possible to determine the maximum potential amount that
    could become due under these indemnities in the future.

The Company has also guaranteed minimum investment returns on
    certain international retirement funds in accordance with local
    laws. Since these guarantees are not subject to limitation with
    respect to duration or amount,

F-174

Table of Contents   

MetLife,
    Inc. 

Notes to
    the Consolidated Financial
    Statements   (Continued)  

the Company does not believe that it is possible to determine
    the maximum potential amount that could become due under these
    guarantees in the future.

During the year ended December 31, 2010, the Company did
    not record any additional liabilities for indemnities,
    guarantees and commitments. The Company s recorded
    liabilities were $5 million at both December 31, 2010
    and 2009, for indemnities, guarantees and commitments.

17.    

Employee
    Benefit Plans  

Pension
    and Other Postretirement Benefit Plans   

The Subsidiaries sponsor
     and/or 
    administer various qualified and non-qualified defined benefit
    pension plans and other postretirement employee benefit plans
    covering employees and sales representatives who meet specified
    eligibility requirements. Pension benefits are provided
    utilizing either a traditional formula or cash balance formula.
    The traditional formula provides benefits that are primarily
    based upon years of credited service and final average earnings.
    The cash balance formula primarily utilizes hypothetical or
    notional accounts which credit participants with benefits equal
    to a percentage of eligible pay, as well as earnings credits,
    determined annually based upon the average annual rate of
    interest on
     30-year 
    U.S. Treasury securities, for each account balance. At
    December 31, 2010, the majority of active participants were
    accruing benefits under the cash balance formula; however,
    approximately 90% of the Subsidiaries  obligations result
    from benefits calculated with the traditional formula. The
    U.S. non-qualified pension plans provide supplemental
    benefits in excess of limits applicable to a qualified plan.

The Subsidiaries also provide certain postemployment benefits
    and certain postretirement medical and life insurance benefits
    for retired employees. Employees of the Subsidiaries who were
    hired prior to 2003 (or, in certain cases, rehired during or
    after 2003) and meet age and service criteria while working
    for one of the Subsidiaries may become eligible for these other
    postretirement benefits, at various levels, in accordance with
    the applicable plans. Virtually all retirees, or their
    beneficiaries, contribute a portion of the total costs of
    postretirement medical benefits. Employees hired after 2003 are
    not eligible for any employer subsidy for postretirement medical
    benefits.

In connection with the Acquisition, domestic American Life
    employees who became employees of certain Subsidiaries
    (including those who remained employees of companies acquired in
    the Acquisition) were credited with service recognized by AIG
    for purposes of determining eligibility under the pension plans
    with respect to benefits earned under the pension plans
    subsequent to the closing date of the Acquisition.

Additionally, in connection with the Acquisition, the Company
    acquired certain pension plans sponsored by American Life. As of
    the end of the year, these plans had liabilities of
    approximately $595 million and assets of approximately
    $97 million.

Measurement dates used for all of the Subsidiaries  defined
    benefit pension and other postretirement benefit plans
    correspond with the fiscal year ends of sponsoring Subsidiaries,
    which are December 31 for most Subsidiaries and November 30 for
    American Life.

F-175

Table of Contents   

MetLife,
    Inc. 

Notes to
    the Consolidated Financial
    Statements   (Continued)  

Obligations,
    Funded Status and Net Periodic Benefit Costs   

F-176

Table of Contents   

MetLife,
    Inc. 

Notes to
    the Consolidated Financial
    Statements   (Continued)  

The aggregate projected benefit obligation and aggregate fair
    value of plan assets for the pension benefit plans were as
    follows:

The accumulated benefit obligations for all defined benefit
    pension plans were $7,320 million and $6,321 million
    at December 31, 2010 and 2009, respectively.

The aggregate pension accumulated benefit obligation and
    aggregate fair value of plan assets for pension benefit plans
    with accumulated benefit obligations in excess of plan assets
    was as follows:

Information for pension and other postretirement benefit plans
    with a projected benefit obligation in excess of plan assets
    were as follows:

Net periodic pension costs and net periodic other postretirement
    benefit plan costs are comprised of the following:

i) 

Service Costs   Service costs are the increase in the
    projected (expected) pension benefit obligation resulting from
    benefits payable to employees of the Subsidiaries on service
    rendered during the current year.

ii) 

Interest Costs on the Liability   Interest costs are
    the time value adjustment on the projected (expected) pension
    benefit obligation at the end of each year.

iii) 

Settlement and Curtailment Costs   The aggregate
    amount of net gains (losses) recognized in net periodic benefit
    costs due to settlements and curtailments. Settlements result
    from actions that relieve/eliminate the plan s
    responsibility for benefit obligations or risks associated with
    the obligations or assets used for the settlement. Curtailments
    result from an event that significantly reduces/eliminates plan
    participants  expected years of future services or benefit
    accruals.

iv) 

Expected Return on Plan Assets   Expected return on
    plan assets is the assumed return earned by the accumulated
    pension and other postretirement fund assets in a particular
    year.

F-177

Table of Contents   

MetLife,
    Inc. 

Notes to
    the Consolidated Financial
    Statements   (Continued)  

v) 

Amortization of Net Actuarial Gains (Losses)  
    Actuarial gains and losses result from differences between the
    actual experience and the expected experience on pension and
    other postretirement plan assets or projected (expected) pension
    benefit obligation during a particular period. These gains and
    losses are accumulated and, to the extent they exceed 10% of the
    greater of the PBO or the fair value of plan assets, the excess
    is amortized into pension and other postretirement benefit costs
    over the expected service years of the employees.

vi) 

Amortization of Prior Service Costs   These costs
    relate to the recognition of increases or decreases in pension
    and other postretirement benefit obligation due to amendments in
    plans or initiation of new plans. These increases or decreases
    in obligation are recognized in accumulated other comprehensive
    income (loss) at the time of the amendment. These costs are then
    amortized to pension and other postretirement benefit costs over
    the expected service years of the employees affected by the
    change.

The components of net periodic benefit costs and other changes
    in plan assets and benefit obligations recognized in other
    comprehensive income (loss) were as follows:

For the year ended December 31, 2010, included within other
    comprehensive income (loss) were other changes in plan assets
    and benefit obligations associated with pension benefits of
    ($180) million and other postretirement benefits of
    $15 million for an aggregate reduction in other
    comprehensive income (loss) of ($165) million before income
    tax and ($96) million, net of income tax.

F-178

Table of Contents   

MetLife,
    Inc. 

Notes to
    the Consolidated Financial
    Statements   (Continued)  

The estimated net actuarial (gains) losses and prior service
    costs (credit) for the pension plans that will be amortized from
    accumulated other comprehensive income (loss) into net periodic
    benefit costs over the next year are $176 million and
    $5 million, respectively.

The estimated net actuarial (gains) losses and prior service
    costs (credit) for the defined benefit other postretirement
    benefit plans that will be amortized from accumulated other
    comprehensive income (loss) into net periodic benefit costs over
    the next year are $34 million and ($108) million,
    respectively.

The Medicare Modernization Act of 2003 created various subsidies
    for sponsors of retiree drug programs. Two common ways of
    providing subsidies were the Retiree Drug Subsidy
    ( RDS ) and Medicare Part D Prescription Drug
    Plans ( PDP ). From 2006 through 2010, the Company
    applied for and received the RDS each year. The RDS program
    provides the subsidy through cash payments made by Medicare to
    the Company, resulting in smaller net claims paid by the
    Company. A summary of the reduction to the APBO and the related
    reduction to the components of net periodic other postretirement
    benefits plan costs resulting from receipt of the RDS is
    presented below. As of January 1, 2011, as a result of
    changes made under the Patient Protection and Affordable Care
    Act of 2010, the Company will no longer apply for the RDS.
    Instead it has joined PDP and will indirectly receive Medicare
    subsidies in the form of smaller gross benefit payments for
    prescription drug coverage.

The Company received subsidies of $8 million,
    $12 million and $12 million for the years ended
    December 31, 2010, 2009 and 2008, respectively.

F-179

Table of Contents   

MetLife,
    Inc. 

Notes to
    the Consolidated Financial
    Statements   (Continued)  

Assumptions  

Assumptions used in determining benefit obligations were as
    follows:

Assumptions used in determining net periodic benefit costs were
    as follows:

The weighted average discount rate for most plans is determined
    annually based on the yield, measured on a yield to worst basis,
    of a hypothetical portfolio constructed of high quality debt
    instruments available on the valuation date, which would provide
    the necessary future cash flows to pay the aggregate projected
    benefit obligation when due.

The weighted average expected rate of return on plan assets is
    based on anticipated performance of the various asset sectors in
    which the plans invest, weighted by target allocation
    percentages. Anticipated future performance is based on
    long-term historical returns of the plan assets by sector,
    adjusted for the Subsidiaries  long-term expectations on
    the performance of the markets. While the precise expected
    return derived using this approach will fluctuate from year to
    year, the policy of most of the Subsidiaries  is to hold
    this long-term assumption constant as long as it remains within
    reasonable tolerance from the derived rate.

The weighted average expected return on plan assets for use in
    that plan s valuation in 2011 is currently anticipated to
    be 7.25% for pension benefits and postretirement medical
    benefits and 5.25% for postretirement life benefits.

The assumed healthcare costs trend rates used in measuring the
    APBO and net periodic benefit costs were as follows:

F-180

Table of Contents   

MetLife,
    Inc. 

Notes to
    the Consolidated Financial
    Statements   (Continued)  

Assumed healthcare costs trend rates may have a significant
    effect on the amounts reported for healthcare plans. A
    one-percentage point change in assumed healthcare costs trend
    rates would have the following effects:

One Percent 

One Percent 

Increase 

Decrease 

(In millions) 

Effect on total of service and interest costs components

$

8

$

(8

)

Effect of accumulated postretirement benefit obligations

$

86

$

(104

)

Plan
    Assets   

Most Subsidiaries have issued group annuity and life insurance
    contracts supporting the pension and other postretirement
    benefit plans assets, which are invested primarily in separate
    accounts.

The underlying assets of the separate accounts are principally
    comprised of cash and cash equivalents, short-term investments,
    fixed maturity and equity securities, mutual funds, real estate,
    private equity investments and hedge funds investments.

The comparative presentation of the 2009 plan assets has been
    realigned to conform to the 2010 presentation to disclose the
    estimated fair value of the underlying assets of each separate
    account at the security level.

F-181

Table of Contents   

MetLife,
    Inc. 

Notes to
    the Consolidated Financial
    Statements   (Continued)  

The pension and postretirement plan assets and liabilities
    measured at estimated fair value on a recurring basis were
    determined as described below. These estimated fair values and
    their corresponding placement in the fair value hierarchy are
    summarized as follows:

F-182

Table of Contents   

MetLife,
    Inc. 

Notes to
    the Consolidated Financial
    Statements   (Continued)  

The pension and other postretirement benefit plan assets are
    categorized into the three-level fair value hierarchy, as
    defined in Note 1, based upon the priority of the inputs to
    the respective valuation technique. The following summarizes the
    types of assets included within the three-level fair value
    hierarchy presented in the table above.

Level 1  

This category includes investments in liquid securities, such as
    cash, short-term money market and bank time deposits, expected
    to mature within a year.

Level 2  

This category includes certain separate accounts that are
    primarily invested in liquid and readily marketable securities.
    The estimated fair value of such separate account is based upon
    reported NAV provided by fund managers and this value represents
    the amount at which transfers into and out of the respective
    separate account are effected. These separate accounts provide
    reasonable levels of price transparency and can be corroborated
    through observable market data.

Certain separate accounts are invested in investment
    partnerships designated as hedge funds. The values for these
    separate accounts is determined monthly based on the NAV of the
    underlying hedge fund investment. Additionally, such hedge funds
    generally contain lock out or other waiting period provisions
    for redemption requests to be filled. While the reporting and
    redemption restrictions may

F-183

Table of Contents   

MetLife,
    Inc. 

Notes to
    the Consolidated Financial
    Statements   (Continued)  

limit the frequency of trading activity in separate accounts
    invested in hedge funds, the reported NAV, and thus the
    referenced value of the separate account, provides a reasonable
    level of price transparency that can be corroborated through
    observable market data. Directly held investments are primarily
    invested in U.S. and foreign government and corporate
    securities.

Level 3  

This category includes separate accounts that are invested in
    real estate and private equity investments that provide little
    or no price transparency due to the infrequency with which the
    underlying assets trade and generally require additional time to
    liquidate in an orderly manner. Accordingly, the values for
    separate accounts invested in these alternative asset classes
    are based on inputs that cannot be readily derived from or
    corroborated by observable market data.

A rollforward of all pension and other postretirement benefit
    plan assets measured at estimated fair value on a recurring
    basis using significant unobservable (Level 3) inputs
    is as follows:

(1)  

Derivative securities and real estate transfers into
    Level 3 are due to the Acquisition and are not related to
    the changes in Level 3 classification at the security level. 

F-184

Table of Contents   

MetLife,
    Inc. 

Notes to
    the Consolidated Financial
    Statements   (Continued)  

The U.S. Subsidiaries provide employees with benefits under
    various ERISA benefit plans. These include qualified pension
    plans, postretirement medical plans and certain retiree life
    insurance coverage. The assets of the Subsidiaries 
    qualified pension plans are held in insurance group annuity
    contracts, and the vast majority of the assets of the
    postretirement medical plan and backing the retiree life
    coverage are held in insurance contracts. All of these contracts
    are issued by Company insurance affiliates, and the assets under
    the contracts are held in insurance separate accounts that have
    been established by the Company. The insurance contract provider
    engages investment management firms ( Managers ) to
    serve as
     sub-advisors 
    for the separate accounts based on the specific investment needs
    and requests identified by the plan fiduciary. These Managers
    have portfolio management discretion over the purchasing and
    selling of securities and other investment assets pursuant to
    the respective investment management agreements and guidelines
    established for each insurance separate account. The assets of
    the qualified pension plans and postretirement medical plans
    (the  Invested Plans ) are well diversified across
    multiple asset categories and across a number of different
    Managers, with the intent of minimizing risk concentrations
    within any given asset category or with any given Manager.

The Invested Plans, other than those held in participant
    directed investment accounts, are managed in accordance with
    investment policies consistent with the longer-term nature of
    related benefit obligations and within prudent risk parameters.
    Specifically, investment policies are oriented toward
    (i) maximizing the Invested Plan s funded status;
    (ii) minimizing the volatility of the Invested Plan s
    funded status; (iii) generating asset returns that exceed
    liability increases; and (iv) targeting rates of return in
    excess of a custom benchmark and industry standards over
    appropriate reference time periods. These goals are expected to
    be met through identifying appropriate and

F-185

Table of Contents   

MetLife,
    Inc. 

Notes to
    the Consolidated Financial
    Statements   (Continued)  

diversified asset classes and allocations, ensuring adequate
    liquidity to pay benefits and expenses when due and controlling
    the costs of administering and managing the Invested Plan s
    investments. Independent investment consultants are periodically
    used to evaluate the investment risk of Invested Plan s
    assets relative to liabilities, analyze the economic and
    portfolio impact of various asset allocations and management
    strategies and to recommend asset allocations.

Certain foreign subsidiaries sponsor defined benefit plans that
    cover employees and sales representatives who meet specified
    eligibility requirements. Pension benefits are provided
    utilizing either a traditional formula or cash balance formula,
    similar to the U.S. plans discussed above. The investment
    objectives are also similar, subject to local regulations.
    Generally, these international pension plans invest directly in
    high quality equity and fixed maturity securities. The assets of
    the foreign pension plans are comprised of cash and cash
    equivalents, equity and fixed maturity securities, real estate
    and hedge fund investments.

Derivative contracts may be used to reduce investment risk, to
    manage duration and to replicate the risk/return profile of an
    asset or asset class. Derivatives may not be used to leverage a
    portfolio in any manner, such as to magnify exposure to an
    asset, asset class, interest rates or any other financial
    variable. Derivatives are also prohibited for use in creating
    exposures to securities, currencies, indices or any other
    financial variable that are otherwise restricted.

The tables below summarize the actual weighted average
    allocation by major asset class for the Invested Plans:

F-186

Table of Contents   

MetLife,
    Inc. 

Notes to
    the Consolidated Financial
    Statements   (Continued)  

The target ranges in the tables above are forward-looking.

Expected
    Future Contributions and Benefit Payments   

It is the Subsidiaries  practice to make contributions to
    the qualified pension plan to comply with minimum funding
    requirements of ERISA. In accordance with such practice, no
    contributions were required for both of the years ended
    December 31, 2010 and 2009. No contributions will be
    required for 2011. The Subsidiaries made discretionary
    contributions of $255 million to the qualified pension plan
    during the year ended December 31, 2010. The Subsidiaries
    made no discretionary contributions to the qualified pension
    plan during the year ended December 31, 2009. The
    Subsidiaries expect to make additional discretionary
    contributions to the qualified pension plan of $175 million
    in 2011.

Benefit payments due under the non-qualified pension plans are
    primarily funded from the Subsidiaries  general assets as
    they become due under the provision of the plans. These payments
    totaled $70 million and $57 million for the years
    ended December 31, 2010 and 2009, respectively. These
    payments are expected to be at approximately the same level in
    2011.

Postretirement benefits, other than those provided under
    qualified pension plans, are either: (i) not vested under
    law; (ii) a non-funded obligation of the Subsidiaries; or
    (iii) both. Current regulations do not require funding for
    these benefits. The Subsidiaries use their general assets, net
    of participant s contributions, to pay postretirement
    medical claims as they come due in lieu of utilizing any plan
    assets. Total payments equaled $154 million and
    $158 million for the years ended December 31, 2010 and
    2009, respectively.

The Subsidiaries expect to make contributions of
    $120 million, net of participant s contributions,
    towards benefit obligations (other than those under qualified
    pension plans) in 2011. As noted previously, the Subsidiaries

F-187

Table of Contents   

MetLife,
    Inc. 

Notes to
    the Consolidated Financial
    Statements   (Continued)  

no longer expect to receive the RDS under the Medicare
    Modernization Act of 2003 to partially offset payment of such
    benefits. Instead, the gross benefit payments that will be made
    under the PDP will already reflect subsidies.

Gross benefit payments for the next ten years, which reflect
    expected future service where appropriate, are expected to be as
    follows:

Additional
    Information   

As previously discussed, most of the assets of the pension and
    other postretirement benefit plans are held in group annuity and
    life insurance contracts issued by the Subsidiaries. Total
    revenues from these contracts recognized in the consolidated
    statements of operations were $46 million, $45 million
    and $42 million for the years ended December 31, 2010,
    2009 and 2008, respectively, and included policy charges and net
    investment income from investments backing the contracts and
    administrative fees. Total investment income (loss), including
    realized and unrealized gains (losses), credited to the account
    balances was $767 million, $725 million and
    ($1,090) million for the years ended December 31,
    2010, 2009 and 2008, respectively. The terms of these contracts
    are consistent in all material respects with those the
    Subsidiaries offer to unaffiliated parties that are similarly
    situated.

Savings
    and Investment Plans   

The Subsidiaries sponsor savings and investment plans for
    substantially all Company employees under which a portion of
    employee contributions are matched. The Subsidiaries contributed
    $86 million, $93 million and $70 million for the
    years ended December 31, 2010, 2009 and 2008, respectively.

Preferred
    Stock   

There are 200,000,000 authorized shares of preferred stock, of
    which 6,857,000 shares were designated for issuance of
    convertible preferred stock in connection with the financing of
    the Acquisition. See    Convertible Preferred
    Stock  below.

The Holding Company has outstanding 24 million shares of
    Floating Rate Non-Cumulative Preferred Stock, Series A (the
     Series A preferred shares ) with a
    $0.01 par value per share, and a liquidation preference of
    $25 per share, for aggregate proceeds of $600 million.

The Holding Company has outstanding 60 million shares of
    6.50% Non-Cumulative Preferred Stock, Series B (the
     Series B preferred shares ), with a
    $0.01 par value per share, and a liquidation preference of
    $25 per share, for aggregate proceeds of $1.5 billion.

The Series A and Series B preferred shares (the
     Preferred Shares ) rank senior to the Convertible
    Preferred Stock and the common stock with respect to dividends
    and liquidation rights. Dividends on the Preferred Shares are
    not cumulative. Holders of the Preferred Shares will be entitled
    to receive dividend payments only when, as and if

F-188

Table of Contents   

MetLife,
    Inc. 

Notes to
    the Consolidated Financial
    Statements   (Continued)  

declared by the Holding Company s Board of Directors or a
    duly authorized committee of the Board. If dividends are
    declared on the Series A preferred shares, they will be
    payable quarterly, in arrears, at an annual rate of the greater
    of: (i) 1.00% above
     3-month 
    LIBOR on the related LIBOR determination date; or
    (ii) 4.00%. Any dividends declared on the Series B
    preferred shares will be payable quarterly, in arrears, at an
    annual fixed rate of 6.50%. Accordingly, in the event that
    dividends are not declared on the Preferred Shares for payment
    on any dividend payment date, then those dividends will cease to
    accrue and be payable. If a dividend is not declared before the
    dividend payment date, the Holding Company has no obligation to
    pay dividends accrued for that dividend period whether or not
    dividends are declared and paid in future periods. No dividends
    may, however, be paid or declared on the Holding Company s
    common stock   or any other securities ranking junior
    to the Preferred Shares   unless the full dividends
    for the latest completed dividend period on all Preferred
    Shares, and any parity stock, have been declared and paid or
    provided for.

The Holding Company is prohibited from declaring dividends on
    the Preferred Shares if it fails to meet specified capital
    adequacy, net income and equity levels. In addition, under
    Federal Reserve Bank of New York Board policy, the Holding
    Company may not be able to pay dividends if it does not earn
    sufficient operating income.

The Preferred Shares do not have voting rights except in certain
    circumstances where the dividends have not been paid for an
    equivalent of six or more dividend payment periods whether or
    not those periods are consecutive. Under such circumstances, the
    holders of the Preferred Shares have certain voting rights with
    respect to members of the Board of Directors of the Holding
    Company.

The Preferred Shares are not subject to any mandatory
    redemption, sinking fund, retirement fund, purchase fund or
    similar provisions. The Preferred Shares are redeemable at the
    Holding Company s option in whole or in part, at a
    redemption price of $25 per Preferred Share, plus declared and
    unpaid dividends.

In December 2008, the Holding Company entered into an RCC
    related to the Preferred Shares. As a part of the RCC, the
    Holding Company agreed that it will not repay, redeem or
    purchase the Preferred Shares on or before December 31,
    2018, unless such repayment, redemption or purchase is made from
    the proceeds of the issuance of certain capital securities. The
    RCC is for the benefit of holders of one or more series of its
    indebtedness as designated from time to time by the Holding
    Company. The RCC will terminate upon the occurrence of certain
    events, including the date on which there are no series of
    outstanding eligible debt securities.

In connection with the offering of the Preferred Shares, the
    Holding Company incurred $57 million of issuance costs
    which have been recorded as a reduction of additional paid-in
    capital.

F-189

Table of Contents   

MetLife,
    Inc. 

Notes to
    the Consolidated Financial
    Statements   (Continued)  

Information on the declaration, record and payment dates, as
    well as per share and aggregate dividend amounts, for the
    Preferred Shares is as follows:

See Note 24 for information on subsequent dividends
    declared.

Convertible
    Preferred Stock   

In connection with the financing of the Acquisition (see
    Note 2) in November 2010, the Holding Company issued
    to ALICO Holdings 6,857,000 shares of Convertible Preferred
    Stock with a $0.01 par value per share, a liquidation
    preference of $0.01 per share and a fair value of
    $2,805 million.

The Convertible Preferred Stock will convert into
    68,570,000 shares of the Holding Company s common
    stock (subject to anti-dilution adjustments) upon a favorable
    vote of the Holding Company s common stockholders. If the
    Company (i) pays a dividend or makes another distribution
    on common stock to all holders of common stock payable, in whole
    or in part, in shares of common stock; (ii) subdivides or
    splits the outstanding shares of common stock into a greater
    number of shares; or (iii) combines or reclassifies the
    outstanding shares of common stock into a smaller number of
    shares, then the conversion rate will be adjusted by multiplying
    the conversion rate by the number of shares of common stock
    which a person who owns only one share of common stock
    immediately before the record date or effective date of the
    applicable event would own immediately after giving effect to
    such dividend, distribution, subdivision, split, combination or
    reclassification. If a favorable vote of its common stockholders
    is not obtained by the first anniversary of the Acquisition
    Date, then the Company must pay ALICO Holdings approximately
    $300 million and use reasonable efforts to list the
    preferred stock on NYSE. The Convertible Preferred Stock ranks
    senior to the common stock with respect to dividends and
    liquidation rights, and holders of the Convertible Preferred
    Stock will be entitled to receive dividend payments only when,
    as and if declared by the Holding Company s Board of
    Directors. Under the terms of the Convertible Preferred Stock,
    the Board will declare a dividend payment or other distribution
    on the Convertible Preferred Stock on an as-converted basis at
    any time and with the same terms as any dividend or other
    distribution declared on MetLife, Inc. s common stock. No
    distribution is payable on the Convertible Preferred Stock
    unless there is a concurrent distribution on the MetLife, Inc.
    common stock.

F-190

Table of Contents   

MetLife,
    Inc. 

Notes to
    the Consolidated Financial
    Statements   (Continued)  

The Convertible Preferred Stock does not have voting rights
    except in certain circumstances when the Convertible Preferred
    Stock is listed on the same exchange on which MetLife,
    Inc. s common stock is listed, and where the dividends have
    not been paid notwithstanding payment of dividends on MetLife,
    Inc. s common stock for an equivalent of six or more
    dividend payment periods whether or not those periods are
    consecutive. Under such circumstances, the holders of the
    Convertible Preferred Stock have certain voting rights with
    respect to members of the Board of Directors of the Holding
    Company. The Convertible Preferred Stock is not redeemable and
    is not subject to any sinking fund, retirement fund, purchase
    fund or similar provisions.

For purposes of the earnings per common share calculation, the
    Convertible Preferred Stock is assumed converted into shares of
    common stock for both basic and diluted weighted average shares.
    See Note 20.

Common
    Stock   

Issuances  

In connection with the financing of the Acquisition (see
    Note 2) in November 2010, the Holding Company issued
    to ALICO Holdings 78,239,712 new shares of its common stock at
    $40.90 per share with a fair value of $3,200 million.

In anticipation of the Acquisition (see Note 2), in August
    2010, the Holding Company issued 86,250,000 new shares of its
    common stock at $42.00 per share for gross proceeds of
    $3,623 million. In connection with the offering of common
    stock, the Holding Company incurred $94 million of issuance
    costs which have been recorded as a reduction of additional
    paid-in capital.

In February 2009, the Holding Company delivered
    24,343,154 shares of newly issued common stock for
    $1,035 million, and in August 2008 the Holding Company
    delivered 20,244,549 shares of its common stock from
    treasury stock also for $1,035 million. Each issuance was
    made in connection with the initial settlement of the stock
    purchase contracts issued as part of the common equity units
    sold in June 2005, as described in Note 14.

In October 2008, the Holding Company issued
    86,250,000 shares of its common stock at a price of $26.50
    per share for gross proceeds of $2,286 million. Of the
    shares issued, 75,000,000 shares, with a value of
    $4,040 million were issued from treasury stock for
    consideration of $1,988 million. In connection with the
    offering of common stock, the Holding Company incurred
    $60 million of issuance costs which have been recorded as a
    reduction of additional paid-in capital.

During the years ended December 31, 2010, 2009 and 2008,
    332,121 shares, 861,586 shares and
    2,271,188 shares of common stock were issued from treasury
    stock for $18 million, $46 million and
    $118 million, respectively, to satisfy various stock option
    exercises and other stock-based awards. During the year ended
    December 31, 2010, 2,182,174 new shares of common stock
    were issued for $74 million to satisfy various stock option
    exercises and other stock-based awards. There were no new shares
    of common stock issued to satisfy the various stock option
    exercises and other stock-based awards during both of the years
    ended December 31, 2009 and 2008.

Repurchase
    Programs  

At January 1, 2008, the Company had $511 million
    remaining under its September 2007 stock repurchase program
    authorization. In both January and April 2008, the
    Company s Board of Directors authorized additional
    $1.0 billion common stock repurchase programs. During the
    year ended December 31, 2008, the Company repurchased
    19,716,418 shares under accelerated share repurchase
    programs and 1,550,000 shares under open market repurchases
    for $1,162 million and $88 million, respectively.
    During the years ended December 31, 2010 and 2009, the
    Company did not repurchase any shares. At December 31,
    2010, the Company had $1,261 million remaining under its
    January and April 2008 stock repurchase program authorizations.

F-191

Table of Contents   

MetLife,
    Inc. 

Notes to
    the Consolidated Financial
    Statements   (Continued)  

Under these authorizations, the Holding Company may purchase its
    common stock from the MetLife Policyholder Trust, in the open
    market (including pursuant to the terms of a pre-set trading
    plan meeting the requirements of
     Rule 10b5-1 
    under the Exchange Act) and in privately negotiated
    transactions. Any future common stock repurchases will be
    dependent upon several factors, including the Company s
    capital position, its liquidity, its financial strength and
    credit ratings, general market conditions and the market price
    of MetLife, Inc. s common stock compared to
    management s assessment of the stock s underlying
    value and applicable regulatory, legal and accounting factors.
    Whether or not to purchase any common stock and the size and
    timing of any such purchases will be determined in the
    Company s complete discretion.

Other  

In September 2008, in connection with the split-off of RGA as
    described in Note 2, the Holding Company received from
    MetLife, Inc. stockholders 23,093,689 shares of MetLife,
    Inc. s common stock with a fair market value of
    $1,318 million and, in exchange, delivered
    29,243,539 shares of RGA Class B common stock with a
    net book value of $1,716 million resulting in a loss on
    disposition, including transaction costs, of $458 million.

Dividends  

The table below presents declaration, record and payment dates,
    as well as per share and aggregate dividend amounts, for the
    common stock:

(1)  

Includes dividends on Convertible Preferred Stock (see above). 

Stock-Based
    Compensation Plans   

Description
    of Plans for Employees and Agents   General
    Terms  

The MetLife, Inc. 2000 Stock Incentive Plan, as amended (the
     2000 Stock Plan ) authorized the granting of awards
    to employees and agents in the form of options to buy shares of
    MetLife, Inc. common stock ( Stock Options ) that
    either qualify as incentive Stock Options under
    Section 422A of the Code or are non-qualified. By
    December 31, 2009 all awards under the 2000 Stock Plan had
    either vested or been forfeited. No awards were made under the
    2000 Stock Plan in 2010.

Under the MetLife, Inc. 2005 Stock and Incentive Compensation
    Plan (the  2005 Stock Plan ), awards granted to
    employees and agents may be in the form of Stock Options, Stock
    Appreciation Rights, Restricted Stock or Restricted Stock Units,
    Performance Shares or Performance Share Units, Cash-Based Awards
    and Stock-Based Awards (each as defined in the 2005 Stock Plan
    with reference to MetLife, Inc. common stock).

The aggregate number of shares authorized for issuance under the
    2005 Stock Plan is 68,000,000, plus those shares available but
    not utilized under the 2000 Stock Plan and those shares utilized
    under the 2000 Stock Plan that are recovered due to forfeiture
    of Stock Options. Each share issued under the 2005 Stock Plan in
    connection with a Stock Option or Stock Appreciation Right
    reduces the number of shares remaining for issuance under that
    plan by one, and each share issued under the 2005 Stock Plan in
    connection with awards other than Stock Options or Stock
    Appreciation Rights reduces the number of shares remaining for
    issuance under that plan by 1.179 shares. At
    December 31, 2010, the aggregate number of shares remaining
    available for issuance pursuant to the 2005 Stock

F-192

Table of Contents   

MetLife,
    Inc. 

Notes to
    the Consolidated Financial
    Statements   (Continued)  

Plan was 40,477,451. Stock Option exercises and other awards
    settled in shares are satisfied through the issuance of shares
    held in treasury by the Company or by the issuance of new shares.

Compensation expense related to awards under the 2005 Stock Plan
    is recognized based on the number of awards expected to vest,
    which represents the awards granted less expected forfeitures
    over the life of the award, as estimated at the date of grant.
    Unless a material deviation from the assumed forfeiture rate is
    observed during the term in which the awards are expensed, any
    adjustment necessary to reflect differences in actual experience
    is recognized in the period the award becomes payable or
    exercisable.

Compensation expense related to awards under the 2005 Stock Plan
    is principally related to the issuance of Stock Options,
    Performance Shares and Restricted Stock Units. The majority of
    the awards granted each year under the 2005 Stock Plan are made
    in the first quarter of each year.

Description
    of Plans for Directors   General Terms  

The MetLife, Inc. 2000 Directors Stock Plan, as amended
    (the  2000 Directors Stock Plan ) authorized the
    granting of awards in the form of MetLife, Inc. common stock,
    non-qualified Stock Options, or a combination of the foregoing
    to non-management Directors of MetLife, Inc. As of
    December 31, 2009, all awards under the 2000 Directors
    Stock Plan had either vested or been forfeited. No awards were
    made under the 2000 Directors Stock Plan in 2010.

Under the MetLife, Inc. 2005 Non-Management Director Stock
    Compensation Plan (the  2005 Directors Stock
    Plan ), awards granted may be in the form of non-qualified
    Stock Options, Stock Appreciation Rights, Restricted Stock or
    Restricted Stock Units, or Stock-Based Awards (each as
    defined in the 2005 Directors Stock Plan with reference to
    MetLife, Inc. common stock) to non-management Directors of
    MetLife, Inc. The number of shares authorized for issuance under
    the 2005 Directors Stock Plan is 2,000,000. There were no
    shares carried forward from the 2000 Directors Stock Plan
    to the 2005 Directors Stock Plan. At December 31,
    2010, the aggregate number of shares remaining available for
    issuance pursuant to the 2005 Directors Stock Plan was
    1,808,114. Stock Option exercises and other awards settled in
    shares are satisfied through the issuance of shares held in
    treasury by the Company or by the issuance of new shares.

Compensation expense related to awards under the
    2005 Directors Plan is recognized based on the number of
    shares awarded. The Stock-Based Awards granted under the
    2005 Directors Plan have vested immediately. The majority
    of the awards granted each year under the 2005 Directors
    Stock Plan are made in the second quarter of each year.

Compensation
    Expense Related to Stock-Based Compensation  

The components of compensation expense related to stock-based
    compensation, excluding the insignificant compensation expense
    related to the 2005 Directors Stock Plan, is as follows:

(1)  

Performance Shares expected to vest and the related compensation
    expenses may be further adjusted by the performance factor most
    likely to be achieved, as estimated by management, at the end of
    the performance period. 

F-193

Table of Contents   

MetLife,
    Inc. 

Notes to
    the Consolidated Financial
    Statements   (Continued)  

The following table presents the total unrecognized compensation
    expense related to stock-based compensation and the expected
    weighted average period over which these expenses will be
    recognized at:

Stock
    Options  

Stock Options are the contingent right of award holders to
    purchase shares of MetLife, Inc. common stock at a stated price
    for a limited time. All Stock Options have an exercise price
    equal to the closing price of MetLife, Inc. common stock
    reported on the NYSE on the date of grant, and have a maximum
    term of ten years. The vast majority of Stock Options granted
    have become or will become exercisable at a rate of one-third of
    each award on each of the first three anniversaries of the grant
    date. Other Stock Options have become or will become exercisable
    on the third anniversary of the grant date. Vesting is subject
    to continued service, except for employees who are retirement
    eligible and in certain other limited circumstances.

A summary of the activity related to Stock Options for the year
    ended December 31, 2010 is as follows:

The fair value of Stock Options is estimated on the date of
    grant using a binomial lattice model. Significant assumptions
    used in the Company s binomial lattice model, which are
    further described below, include: expected volatility of the
    price of MetLife, Inc. common stock; risk-free rate of return;
    expected dividend yield on MetLife, Inc. common stock; exercise
    multiple; and the post-vesting termination rate.

Expected volatility is based upon an analysis of historical
    prices of MetLife, Inc. common stock and call options on that
    common stock traded on the open market. The Company uses a
    weighted-average of the implied volatility for publicly-traded
    call options with the longest remaining maturity nearest to the
    money as of each

F-194

Table of Contents   

MetLife,
    Inc. 

Notes to
    the Consolidated Financial
    Statements   (Continued)  

valuation date and the historical volatility, calculated using
    monthly closing prices of MetLife, Inc. s common stock. The
    Company chose a monthly measurement interval for historical
    volatility as it believes this better depicts the nature of
    employee option exercise decisions being based on longer-term
    trends in the price of the underlying shares rather than on
    daily price movements.

The binomial lattice model used by the Company incorporates
    different risk-free rates based on the imputed forward rates for
    U.S. Treasury Strips for each year over the contractual
    term of the option. The table below presents the full range of
    rates that were used for options granted during the respective
    periods.

Dividend yield is determined based on historical dividend
    distributions compared to the price of the underlying common
    stock as of the valuation date and held constant over the life
    of the Stock Option.

The binomial lattice model used by the Company incorporates the
    contractual term of the Stock Options and then factors in
    expected exercise behavior and a post-vesting termination rate,
    or the rate at which vested options are exercised or expire
    prematurely due to termination of employment, to derive an
    expected life. Exercise behavior in the binomial lattice model
    used by the Company is expressed using an exercise multiple,
    which reflects the ratio of exercise price to the strike price
    of Stock Options granted at which holders of the Stock Options
    are expected to exercise. The exercise multiple is derived from
    actual historical exercise activity. The post-vesting
    termination rate is determined from actual historical exercise
    experience and expiration activity under the Incentive Plans.

The following table presents the weighted average assumptions,
    with the exception of risk-free rate, which is expressed as a
    range, used to determine the fair value of Stock Options issued:

The following table presents a summary of Stock Option exercise
    activity:

Performance
    Shares  

Performance Shares are units that, if they vest, are multiplied
    by a performance factor to produce a number of final Performance
    Shares which are payable in shares of MetLife, Inc. common
    stock. Performance Shares are accounted for as equity awards,
    but are not credited with dividend-equivalents for actual
    dividends paid on MetLife, Inc. common stock during the
    performance period. Accordingly, the estimated fair value of
    Performance Shares is based upon the closing price of MetLife,
    Inc. common stock on the date of grant, reduced by the present
    value of estimated dividends to be paid on that stock during the
    performance period.

F-195

Table of Contents   

MetLife,
    Inc. 

Notes to
    the Consolidated Financial
    Statements   (Continued)  

Performance Share awards normally vest in their entirety at the
    end of the three-year performance period. Vesting is subject to
    continued service, except for employees who are retirement
    eligible and in certain other limited circumstances. Vested
    Performance Shares are multiplied by a performance factor of 0.0
    to 2.0 based largely on MetLife, Inc. s performance in
    change in annual net operating earnings and total shareholder
    return over the applicable three-year performance period
    compared to the performance of its competitors. A performance
    factor of 0.94 was applied for the January 1,
    2007   December 31, 2009 performance period.

The following table presents a summary of Performance Share
    activity for the year ended December 31, 2010:

(1)  

The total fair value on the date of the grant was
    $49 million. 

(2)  

Includes both shares paid and shares deferred for later payment. 

Performance Share amounts above represent aggregate initial
    target awards and do not reflect potential increases or
    decreases resulting from the performance factor determined after
    the end of the respective performance periods. At
    December 31, 2010, the three year performance period for
    the 2008 Performance Share grants was completed, but the
    performance factor has not yet been calculated. Included in the
    immediately preceding table are 824,825 outstanding Performance
    Shares to which the performance factor will be applied.

Restricted
    Stock Units  

Restricted Stock Units are units that, if they vest, are payable
    in shares of MetLife, Inc. common stock. Restricted Stock Units
    are accounted for as equity awards, but are not credited with
    dividend-equivalents for actual dividends paid on MetLife, Inc.
    common stock during the performance period. Accordingly, the
    estimated fair value of Restricted Stock Units is based upon the
    closing price of MetLife, Inc. common stock on the date of
    grant, reduced by the present value of estimated dividends to be
    paid on that stock during the performance period.

The vast majority of Restricted Stock Units normally vest in
    their entirety on the third anniversary of their grant date.
    Other Restricted Stock Units normally vest in their entirety on
    the fifth anniversary of their grant date. Vesting is subject to
    continued service, except for employees who are retirement
    eligible and in certain other limited circumstances.

F-196

Table of Contents   

MetLife,
    Inc. 

Notes to
    the Consolidated Financial
    Statements   (Continued)  

The following table presents a summary of Restricted Stock Unit
    activity for the year ended December 31, 2010:

(1)  

The total fair value on the date of the grant was
    $20 million. 

(2)  

Includes both shares paid and shares deferred for later payment. 

Statutory
    Equity and Income   

Except for American Life, each insurance company s state of
    domicile imposes minimum risk-based capital ( RBC )
    requirements that were developed by the NAIC. The formulas for
    determining the amount of RBC specify various weighting factors
    that are applied to financial balances or various levels of
    activity based on the perceived degree of risk. Regulatory
    compliance is determined by a ratio of total adjusted capital,
    as defined by the NAIC, to authorized control level RBC, as
    defined by the NAIC. Companies below specific trigger points or
    ratios are classified within certain levels, each of which
    requires specified corrective action. Each of the Holding
    Company s U.S. insurance subsidiaries exceeded the
    minimum RBC requirements for all periods presented herein.

American Life does not write business in Delaware or any other
    domestic state and, as such, is exempt from RBC by Delaware law.
    American Life operations are regulated by applicable authorities
    of the countries in which the company operates and are subject
    to capital and solvency requirements in those countries.

The NAIC has adopted the Codification of Statutory Accounting
    Principles ( Statutory Codification ). Statutory
    Codification is intended to standardize regulatory accounting
    and reporting to state insurance departments. However, statutory
    accounting principles continue to be established by individual
    state laws and permitted practices. The New York Insurance
    Department (the  Department ) has adopted Statutory
    Codification with certain modifications for the preparation of
    statutory financial statements of insurance companies domiciled
    in New York. Modifications by the various state insurance
    departments may impact the effect of Statutory Codification on
    the statutory capital and surplus of the Holding Company s
    U.S. insurance subsidiaries.

Statutory accounting principles differ from GAAP primarily by
    charging policy acquisition costs to expense as incurred,
    establishing future policy benefit liabilities using different
    actuarial assumptions, reporting surplus notes as surplus
    instead of debt and valuing securities on a different basis.

In addition, certain assets are not admitted under statutory
    accounting principles and are charged directly to surplus. The
    most significant assets not admitted by the Company are net
    deferred income tax assets resulting from temporary differences
    between statutory accounting principles basis and tax basis not
    expected to reverse and become recoverable within three years.
    Further, statutory accounting principles do not give recognition
    to purchase accounting adjustments.

Statutory net income (loss) of MLIC, a New York domiciled
    insurer, was $2,066 million, $1,221 million and
    ($338) million for the years ended December 31, 2010,
    2009 and 2008, respectively. Statutory capital and surplus, to
    be filed with the Department, was $13.2 billion and
    $12.6 billion at December 31, 2010 and 2009,
    respectively.

F-197

Table of Contents   

MetLife,
    Inc. 

Notes to
    the Consolidated Financial
    Statements   (Continued)  

Statutory net income of American Life, a Delaware domiciled
    insurer, of approximately $800 million will be reported in
    the Statutory Annual Statement for the year ended
    December 31, 2010. Statutory capital and surplus, to be
    filed with the Delaware Insurance Department was approximately
    $4.0 billion at December 31, 2010.

Statutory net income of MICC, a Connecticut domiciled insurer,
    was $668 million, $81 million and $242 million
    for the years ended December 31, 2010, 2009 and 2008,
    respectively. Statutory capital and surplus, to be filed with
    the Connecticut Insurance Department, was $5.1 billion and
    $4.9 billion at December 31, 2010 and 2009,
    respectively.

Statutory net income of Metropolitan Property and Casualty
    Insurance Company ( MPC ), a Rhode Island domiciled
    insurer, was $273 million, $266 million and
    $308 million for the years ended December 31, 2010,
    2009 and 2008, respectively. Statutory capital and surplus, to
    be filed with the Insurance Department of Rhode Island, was
    $1.8 billion at both December 31, 2010 and 2009.

Statutory net income of MTL, a Delaware domiciled insurer, was
    $151 million, $57 million and $212 million for
    the years ended December 31, 2010, 2009 and 2008,
    respectively. Statutory capital and surplus, to be filed with
    the Delaware Insurance Department was $805 million and
    $867 million at December 31, 2010 and 2009,
    respectively.

Dividend
    Restrictions   

The table below sets forth the dividends permitted to be paid by
    the respective insurance subsidiary without insurance regulatory
    approval and the respective dividends paid:

(1)  

Reflects dividend amounts that may be paid during 2011 without
    prior regulatory approval. However, because dividend tests may
    be based on dividends previously paid over rolling
     12-month 
    periods, if paid before a specified date during 2011, some or
    all of such dividends may require regulatory approval. 

(2)  

All amounts paid, including those requiring regulatory approval. 

(3)  

Reflects dividend amounts that could have been paid during the
    relevant year without prior regulatory approval. 

(4)  

Includes securities transferred to the Holding Company of
    $399 million. 

(5)  

Reflects approximate dividends permitted to be paid and the
    respective dividends paid since the Acquisition Date. See
    Note 2. 

(6)  

Includes shares of an affiliate distributed to the Holding
    Company as an in-kind dividend of $475 million. 

In addition to the amounts presented in the table above, for the
    years ended December 31, 2010 and 2009, cash dividends in
    the aggregate amount of $0 and $215 million, respectively,
    were paid to the Holding Company.

Under New York State Insurance Law, MLIC is permitted, without
    prior insurance regulatory clearance, to pay stockholder
    dividends to the Holding Company as long as the aggregate amount
    of all such dividends in any calendar year does not exceed the
    lesser of: (i) 10% of its surplus to policyholders as of
    the end of the immediately

F-198

Table of Contents   

MetLife,
    Inc. 

Notes to
    the Consolidated Financial
    Statements   (Continued)  

preceding calendar year; or (ii) its statutory net gain
    from operations for the immediately preceding calendar year
    (excluding realized capital gains). MLIC will be permitted to
    pay a dividend to the Holding Company in excess of the lesser of
    such two amounts only if it files notice of its intention to
    declare such a dividend and the amount thereof with the
    Superintendent and the Superintendent does not disapprove the
    dividend within 30 days of its filing. Under New York State
    Insurance Law, the Superintendent has broad discretion in
    determining whether the financial condition of a stock life
    insurance company would support the payment of such dividends to
    its shareholders.

Under Delaware State Insurance Law, each of American Life and
    MTL is permitted, without prior insurance regulatory clearance,
    to pay a stockholder dividend to the Holding Company as long as
    the amount of the dividend when aggregated with all other
    dividends in the preceding 12 months does not exceed the
    greater of: (i) 10% of its surplus to policyholders as of
    the end of the immediately preceding calendar year; or
    (ii) its statutory net gain from operations for the
    immediately preceding calendar year (excluding realized capital
    gains). Each of American Life and MTL will be permitted to pay a
    dividend to the Holding Company in excess of the greater of such
    two amounts only if it files notice of the declaration of such a
    dividend and the amount thereof with the Delaware Commissioner
    of Insurance (the  Delaware Commissioner ) and the
    Delaware Commissioner either approves the distribution of the
    dividend or does not disapprove the distribution within
    30 days of its filing. In addition, any dividend that
    exceeds earned surplus (defined as unassigned funds) as of the
    last filed annual statutory statement requires insurance
    regulatory approval. Under Delaware State Insurance Law, the
    Delaware Commissioner has broad discretion in determining
    whether the financial condition of a stock life insurance
    company would support the payment of such dividends to its
    shareholders.

Under Connecticut State Insurance Law, MICC is permitted,
    without prior insurance regulatory clearance, to pay stockholder
    dividends to its stockholders as long as the amount of such
    dividends, when aggregated with all other dividends in the
    preceding 12 months, does not exceed the greater of:
    (i) 10% of its surplus to policyholders as of the end of
    the immediately preceding calendar year; or (ii) its
    statutory net gain from operations for the immediately preceding
    calendar year. MICC will be permitted to pay a dividend in
    excess of the greater of such two amounts only if it files
    notice of its declaration of such a dividend and the amount
    thereof with the Connecticut Commissioner of Insurance (the
     Connecticut Commissioner ) and the Connecticut
    Commissioner does not disapprove the payment within 30 days
    after notice. In addition, any dividend that exceeds earned
    surplus (unassigned funds, reduced by 25% of unrealized
    appreciation in value or revaluation of assets or unrealized
    profits on investments) as of the last filed annual statutory
    statement requires insurance regulatory approval. Under
    Connecticut State Insurance Law, the Connecticut Commissioner
    has broad discretion in determining whether the financial
    condition of a stock life insurance company would support the
    payment of such dividends to its shareholders.

Under Rhode Island State Insurance Law, MPC is permitted,
    without prior insurance regulatory clearance, to pay a
    stockholder dividend to the Holding Company as long as the
    aggregate amount of all such dividends in any twelve-month
    period does not exceed the lesser of: (i) 10% of its
    surplus to policyholders as of the end of the immediately
    preceding calendar year; or (ii) net income, not including
    realized capital gains, for the immediately preceding calendar
    year, which may include carry forward net income from the second
    and third preceding calendar years excluding realized capital
    gains and less dividends paid in the second and immediately
    preceding calendar years. MPC will be permitted to pay a
    dividend to the Holding Company in excess of the lesser of such
    two amounts only if it files notice of its intention to declare
    such a dividend and the amount thereof with the Rhode Island
    Commissioner of Insurance (the  Rhode Island
    Commissioner ) and the Rhode Island Commissioner does not
    disapprove the distribution within 30 days of its filing.
    Under Rhode Island State Insurance Code, the Rhode Island
    Commissioner has broad discretion in determining whether the
    financial condition of a stock property and casualty insurance
    company would support the payment of such dividends to its
    shareholders.

F-199

Table of Contents   

MetLife,
    Inc. 

Notes to
    the Consolidated Financial
    Statements   (Continued)  

Other
    Comprehensive Income (Loss)   

The following table sets forth the reclassification adjustments
    required for the years ended December 31, 2010, 2009 and
    2008 in other comprehensive income (loss) that are included as
    part of net income for the current year that have been reported
    as a part of other comprehensive income (loss) in the current or
    prior year:

F-200

Table of Contents   

MetLife,
    Inc. 

Notes to
    the Consolidated Financial
    Statements   (Continued)  

Information on other expenses was as follows:

Capitalization
    of DAC and Amortization of DAC and VOBA   

See Note 6 for DAC and VOBA by segment and a rollforward of
    each including impacts of capitalization and amortization. See
    also Note 10 for a description of the DAC amortization
    impact associated with the closed block. Amortization of DAC and
    VOBA includes amortization of negative VOBA related to the
    Acquisition of $64 million for the year ended
    December 31, 2010. Negative VOBA is recorded in other
    policy-related balances (see Note 2) and therefore,
    the amortization of negative VOBA is an offset to the VOBA
    amortization in Note 6.

Interest
    Expense on Debt and Debt Issue Costs   

See Notes 11, 12, 13 and 14 for attribution of interest
    expense by debt issuance. Interest expense on debt and debt
    issue costs includes interest expense related to CSEs of
    $411 million for the year ended December 31, 2010, and
    $0 for both of the years ended December 31, 2009 and 2008.
    See Note 3.

Lease
    Impairments   

See Note 16 for description of lease impairments included
    within other expenses.

Costs
    Related to the Acquisition   

See Note 2 for transaction costs and integration-related
    expenses related to the Acquisition which were included in other
    expenses.

Restructuring
    Charges   

In September 2008, the Company began an enterprise-wide cost
    reduction and revenue enhancement initiative which is expected
    to be fully implemented by December 31, 2011. This
    initiative is focused on reducing complexity, leveraging scale,
    increasing productivity and improving the effectiveness of the
    Company s operations, as well as providing a foundation for
    future growth. These restructuring costs were included in

F-201

Table of Contents   

MetLife,
    Inc. 

Notes to
    the Consolidated Financial
    Statements   (Continued)  

other expenses. As the expenses relate to an enterprise-wide
    initiative, they were incurred within Banking,
    Corporate   Other. Estimated restructuring costs may
    change as management continues to execute its restructuring
    plans. Restructuring charges associated with this
    enterprise-wide initiative were as follows:

For the years ended December 31, 2010, 2009 and 2008, the
    change in severance charge estimates of ($1) million,
    ($8) million and ($8) million, respectively, was due
    to changes in estimates for variable incentive compensation,
    COBRA benefits, employee outplacement services and for employees
    whose severance status changed.

In addition to the above charges, the Company has recognized
    lease charges of $28 million associated with the
    consolidation of office space since the inception of the
    initiative.

Management anticipates further restructuring charges, including
    severance, lease and asset impairments, will be incurred during
    the year ending December 31, 2011. However, such
    restructuring plans were not sufficiently developed to enable
    the Company to make an estimate of such restructuring charges at
    December 31, 2010.

See Note 2 for discussion of restructuring charges related
    to the Acquisition.

F-202

Table of Contents   

MetLife,
    Inc. 

Notes to
    the Consolidated Financial
    Statements   (Continued)  

20.    

Earnings
    Per Common Share  

The following table presents the weighted average shares used in
    calculating basic earnings per common share and those used in
    calculating diluted earnings per common share for each income
    category presented below:

(1)  

For purposes of the earnings per common share calculation, the
    Convertible Preferred Stock is assumed converted into shares of
    common stock for both basic and diluted weighted average shares.
    See Note 18 for a description of the Convertible Preferred
    Stock. 

(2)  

See Note 14 for a description of the Company s common
    equity units. 

F-203

Table of Contents   

MetLife,
    Inc. 

Notes to
    the Consolidated Financial
    Statements   (Continued)  

(3)  

For the year ended December 31, 2009, 4,213,700 shares
    related to the assumed exercise or issuance of stock-based
    awards have been excluded from the calculation of diluted
    earnings per common share as these assumed shares are
    anti-dilutive. 

21.    

Quarterly
    Results of Operations (Unaudited)  

The unaudited quarterly results of operations for 2010 and 2009
    are summarized in the table below:

F-204

Table of Contents   

MetLife,
    Inc. 

Notes to
    the Consolidated Financial
    Statements   (Continued)  

22.    

Business
    Segment Information  

MetLife is organized into five segments: Insurance Products,
    Retirement Products, Corporate Benefit Funding and
    Auto   Home (collectively,
     U.S. Business ) and International. The assets
    and liabilities of ALICO as of November 30, 2010 and the
    operating results of ALICO from the Acquisition Date through
    November 30, 2010 are included in the International
    segment. In addition, the Company reports certain of its results
    of operations in Banking, Corporate   Other, which
    includes MetLife Bank and other business activities. For
    reporting purposes beginning in 2011, our
     non-U.S. Business 
    results will be presented within two separate segments: Japan
    and Other International Regions.

Insurance Products offers a broad range of protection products
    and services to individuals and corporations, as well as other
    institutions and their respective employees, and is organized
    into three distinct businesses: Group Life, Individual Life and
    Non-Medical Health. Group Life insurance products and services
    include variable life, universal life and term life products.
    Individual Life insurance products and services include variable
    life, universal life, term life and whole life products.
    Non-Medical Health products and services include dental
    insurance, short- and long-term disability, long-term care and
    other insurance products. Retirement Products offers asset
    accumulation and income products, including a wide variety of
    annuities. Corporate Benefit Funding offers pension risk
    solutions, structured settlements, stable value and investment
    products and other benefit funding products. Auto  
    Home provides personal lines property and casualty insurance,
    including private passenger automobile, homeowners and personal
    excess liability insurance. In the fourth quarter of 2010,
    management realigned certain income annuity products within the
    Company s segments to better conform to the way it manages
    and assesses its business and began reporting such product
    results in the Retirement Products segment, previously reported
    in the Corporate Benefit Funding segment. Accordingly, prior
    period results for these segments have been adjusted by
    $29 million and $13 million of operating losses, net
    of $15 million and $8 million of income tax benefits,
    for the years ended December 31, 2009 and 2008,
    respectively, to reflect such product reclassifications.

International provides life insurance, accident and health
    insurance, credit insurance, annuities, endowments and
    retirement   savings products to both individuals and
    groups.

Banking, Corporate   Other contains the excess capital
    not allocated to the segments, the results of operations of
    MetLife Bank, various
     start-up 
    entities and run-off entities, as well as interest expense
    related to the majority of the Company s outstanding debt
    and expenses associated with certain legal proceedings and
    income tax audit issues. Banking, Corporate   Other
    also includes the elimination of intersegment amounts, which
    generally relate to intersegment loans, which bear interest
    rates commensurate with related borrowings.

Operating earnings is the measure of segment profit or loss the
    Company uses to evaluate segment performance and allocate
    resources. Consistent with GAAP accounting guidance for segment
    reporting, it is the Company s measure of segment
    performance reported below. Operating earnings does not equate
    to income (loss) from continuing operations, net of income tax
    or net income (loss) as determined in accordance with GAAP and
    should not be viewed as a substitute for those GAAP measures.
    The Company believes the presentation of operating earnings
    herein as the Company measures it for management purposes
    enhances the understanding of its performance by highlighting
    the results from operations and the underlying profitability
    drivers of the businesses.

Operating earnings is defined as operating revenues less
    operating expenses, net of income tax.

Operating revenues is defined as GAAP revenues (i) less net
    investment gains (losses) and net derivative gains (losses);
    (ii) less amortization of unearned revenue related to net
    investment gains (losses) and net derivative gains (losses);
    (iii) plus scheduled periodic settlement payments on
    derivatives that are hedges of investments but do not qualify
    for hedge accounting treatment; (iv) plus income from
    discontinued real estate operations; (v) less net
    investment income related to contractholder-directed unit-linked
    investments; and (vi) plus, for operating joint ventures
    reported under the equity method of accounting, the
    aforementioned adjustments, those identified in the definition
    of operating expenses and changes in fair value of hedges of
    operating joint venture liabilities, all net of income tax.

F-205

Table of Contents   

MetLife,
    Inc. 

Notes to
    the Consolidated Financial
    Statements   (Continued)  

Operating expenses is defined as GAAP expenses (i) less
    changes in policyholder benefits associated with asset value
    fluctuations related to experience-rated contractholder
    liabilities and certain inflation-indexed liabilities;
    (ii) less costs related to business combinations (since
    January 1, 2009) and noncontrolling interests;
    (iii) less amortization of DAC and VOBA and changes in the
    policyholder dividend obligation related to net investment gains
    (losses) and net derivative gains (losses); (iv) less
    interest credited to policyholder account balances related to
    contractholder-directed unit-linked investments; and
    (v) plus scheduled periodic settlement payments on
    derivatives that are hedges of policyholder account balances but
    do not qualify for hedge accounting treatment.

In addition, operating revenues and operating expenses do not
    reflect the consolidation of certain securitization entities
    that are VIEs as required under GAAP.

Set forth in the tables below is certain financial information
    with respect to the Company s segments, as well as Banking,
    Corporate   Other for the years ended
    December 31, 2010, 2009 and 2008 and at December 31,
    2010 and 2009. The accounting policies of the segments are the
    same as those of the Company, except for the method of capital
    allocation and the accounting for gains (losses) from
    intercompany sales, which are eliminated in consolidation.
    Economic capital is an internally developed risk capital model,
    the purpose of which is to measure the risk in the business and
    to provide a basis upon which capital is deployed. The economic
    capital model accounts for the unique and specific nature of the
    risks inherent in the Company s businesses. As a part of
    the economic capital process, a portion of net investment income
    is credited to the segments based on the level of allocated
    equity. The Company allocates certain non-recurring items, such
    as expenses associated with certain legal proceedings, to
    Banking, Corporate   Other.

F-206

Table of Contents   

MetLife,
    Inc. 

Notes to
    the Consolidated Financial
    Statements   (Continued)  

F-207

Table of Contents   

MetLife,
    Inc. 

Notes to
    the Consolidated Financial
    Statements   (Continued)  

F-208

Table of Contents   

MetLife,
    Inc. 

Notes to
    the Consolidated Financial
    Statements   (Continued)  

Net investment income is based upon the actual results of each
    segment s specifically identifiable asset portfolio
    adjusted for allocated equity. Other costs are allocated to each
    of the segments based upon: (i) a review of the nature of
    such costs; (ii) time studies analyzing the amount of
    employee compensation costs incurred by each segment; and
    (iii) cost estimates included in the Company s product
    pricing.

Operating revenues derived from any customer did not exceed 10%
    of consolidated operating revenues for the years ended
    December 31, 2010, 2009 and 2008. Operating revenues from
    U.S. operations were $44.9 billion, $42.8 billion
    and $42.9 billion for the years ended December 31,
    2010, 2009 and 2008, respectively, which represented 85%, 87%
    and 87%, respectively, of consolidated operating revenues.

F-209

Table of Contents   

MetLife,
    Inc. 

Notes to
    the Consolidated Financial
    Statements   (Continued)  

23.    

Discontinued
    Operations  

Real
    Estate   

The Company actively manages its real estate portfolio with the
    objective of maximizing earnings through selective acquisitions
    and dispositions. Income related to real estate classified as
     held-for-sale 
    or sold is presented in discontinued operations. These assets
    are carried at the lower of depreciated cost or estimated fair
    value less expected disposition costs. Income from discontinued
    real estate operations, net of income tax, was $3 million,
    $11 million and $13 million for the years ended
    December 31, 2010, 2009 and 2008, respectively.

The carrying value of real estate related to discontinued
    operations was $8 million and $55 million at
    December 31, 2010 and 2009, respectively.

Operations   

Texas
    Life Insurance Company  

During the fourth quarter of 2008, the Holding Company entered
    into an agreement to sell its wholly-owned subsidiary, Cova, the
    parent company of Texas Life, to a third-party and the sale
    occurred in March 2009. See Note 2. The following table
    presents the amounts related to the operations of Cova that have
    been reflected as discontinued operations in the consolidated
    statements of operations:

F-210

Table of Contents   

MetLife,
    Inc. 

Notes to
    the Consolidated Financial
    Statements   (Continued)  

Reinsurance
    Group of America, Incorporated  

As more fully described in Note 2, the Company completed a
    tax-free split-off of its majority-owned subsidiary, RGA in
    September 2008. The following table presents the amounts related
    to the operations of RGA that have been reflected as
    discontinued operations in the consolidated statements of
    operations:

Year Ended 

December 31, 2008 

(In millions) 

Total revenues

$

3,952

Total expenses

3,796

Income before provision for income tax

156

Provision for income tax

53

Income from discontinued operations, net of income tax,
    available to MetLife, Inc. s common shareholders

103

Income from discontinued operations, net of income tax,
    attributable to noncontrolling interests

94

Loss on disposal, net of income tax

(458

)

Income (loss) from discontinued operations, net of income tax

$

(261

)

The operations of RGA included direct policies and reinsurance
    agreements with MetLife and some of its subsidiaries. These
    agreements are generally terminable by either party upon
    90 days written notice with respect to future new business.
    Agreements related to existing business generally are not
    terminable, unless the underlying policies terminate or are
    recaptured. These direct policies and reinsurance agreements do
    not constitute significant continuing involvement by the Company
    with RGA. Included in continuing operations in the
    Company s consolidated statements of operations are amounts
    related to these transactions, including ceded amounts that
    reduced premiums and fees by $158 million and ceded amounts
    that reduced policyholder benefits and claims by
    $136 million for the year ended December 31, 2008 that
    have not been eliminated as these transactions have continued
    after the RGA disposition.

Dividends   

On February 18, 2011, the Holding Company announced
    dividends of $0.2500000 per share, for a total of
    $6 million, on its Series A preferred shares, and
    $0.4062500 per share, for a total of $24 million, on its
    Series B preferred shares, subject to the final
    confirmation that it has met the financial tests specified in
    the Series A and Series B preferred shares, which the
    Company anticipates will be made on or about March 7, 2011. Both
    dividends will be payable March 15, 2011 to shareholders of
    record as of February 28, 2011.

Credit
    Facility   

On February 1, 2011, the Holding Company entered into a
    committed facility with a third-party bank to provide letters of
    credit for the benefit of Missouri Reinsurance (Barbados) Inc.
    ( MoRe ), a captive reinsurance subsidiary, to address
    its short-term solvency needs based on guidance from the
    regulator. This one-year facility provides for the issuance of
    letters of credit in amounts up to $350 million. Under the
    facility, a letter of credit for $250 million was issued on
    February 2, 2011 and increased to $295 million on
    February 23, 2011, which management believes satisfies
    MoRe s solvency requirements.

F-211

Table of Contents   

Schedule I

Consolidated Summary of Investments

MetLife,
    Inc. 

Schedule I  

Consolidated
    Summary of Investments    
     Other Than Investments in Related Parties 
    December 31, 2010 
    (In millions)  

(1)  

The Company s trading and other securities portfolio is
    mainly comprised of fixed maturity and equity securities,
    including mutual funds, and to a lesser extent, short-term
    investments and cash and cash equivalents. Cost or amortized
    cost for fixed maturity securities and mortgage loans
     held-for-investment 
    represents original cost reduced by repayments, valuation
    allowances and impairments from
     other-than-temporary 
    declines in estimated fair value that are charged to earnings
    and adjusted for amortization of premiums or discounts; for
    equity securities, cost represents original cost reduced by
    impairments from
     other-than-temporary 
    declines in estimated fair value; for real estate, cost
    represents original cost reduced by impairments and adjusted for
    valuation allowances and depreciation; for real estate joint
    ventures and other limited partnership interests cost represents
    original cost reduced for
     other-than-temporary 
    impairments or original cost adjusted for equity in earnings and
    distributions. 

F-212

Table of Contents   

Schedule II

MetLife,
    Inc. 

Schedule II  

Condensed
    Financial Information of Registrant 
     December 31, 2010 and 2009 
    (In millions, except share and per share data)  

See accompanying notes to the condensed financial
    information. 

F-213

Table of Contents   

MetLife,
    Inc. 

Schedule II  

Condensed
    Financial Information of Registrant   (Continued) 
    For the Years Ended December 31, 2010, 2009 and 2008 
    (In millions)  

See accompanying notes to the condensed financial
    information. 

F-214

Table of Contents   

MetLife,
    Inc.  

Schedule II  

Condensed
    Financial Information of Registrant   (Continued) 
    For the Years Ended December 31, 2010, 2009 and 2008 
    (In millions)  

F-215

Table of Contents   

See accompanying notes to the condensed financial
    information. 

F-216

Table of Contents   

MetLife,
    Inc. 

Schedule II  

Notes to
    the Condensed Financial Information of Registrant  

1.    

Basis of
    Presentation  

The condensed financial information of MetLife, Inc. (the
     Holding Company  or the  Registrant )
    should be read in conjunction with the consolidated financial
    statements of MetLife, Inc. and its subsidiaries and the notes
    thereto (the  Consolidated Financial Statements ).
    These condensed unconsolidated financial statements reflect the
    results of operations, financial position and cash flows for the
    Holding Company. Investments in subsidiaries are accounted for
    using the equity method of accounting.

The preparation of these condensed unconsolidated financial
    statements in conformity with accounting principles generally
    accepted in the United States of America ( GAAP )
    requires management to adopt accounting policies and make
    certain estimates and assumptions. The most important of these
    estimates and assumptions relate to the fair value measurements,
    the accounting for goodwill and identifiable intangible assets
    and the provision for potential losses that may arise from
    litigation and regulatory proceedings and tax audits, which may
    affect the amounts reported in the condensed unconsolidated
    financial statements and accompanying notes. Actual results
    could differ from these estimates.

2.    

Acquisition  

On November 1, 2010, the Holding Company acquired all of
    the issued and outstanding capital stock of American Life
    Insurance Company ( American Life ) and Delaware
    American Life Insurance Company (collectively,
     ALICO ). For further information on the
    $16.4 billion purchase price including cash, common stock,
    convertible preferred stock and common equity units, as well as
    on the capital raised in anticipation of the acquisition, see
    Notes 2, 11, 14 and 18 of the Notes to the Consolidated
    Financial Statements.

3.    

Loans to
    Subsidiaries  

The Holding Company lends funds, as necessary, to its
    subsidiaries, some of which are regulated, to meet their capital
    requirements. Such loans are included in loans to subsidiaries
    and consisted of the following at:

In December 2009, the $700 million surplus note issued to
    the Holding Company by Metropolitan Life Insurance Company
    ( MLIC ) was renewed and increased to
    $775 million, extending the maturity to December 31,
    2011 with an interest rate of
     6-month 
    LIBOR + 1.80%.

In December 2009, MLIC issued a surplus note to the Holding
    Company for $300 million maturing in 2011 with an interest
    rate of
     6-month 
    LIBOR + 1.80%. MLIC received securities in exchange for the
    surplus note. On December 29, 2010, MLIC repaid the
    $300 million surplus note to the Holding Company in cash.

In June 2008, MetLife Investors USA Insurance Company repaid the
    $400 million surplus note with an interest rate of 7.35% to
    the Holding Company.

Interest income earned on loans to subsidiaries of
    $63 million, $50 million and $81 million for the
    years ended December 31, 2010, 2009 and 2008, respectively,
    is included in net investment income.

F-217

Table of Contents   

MetLife,
    Inc. 

Schedule II  

Notes to
    the Condensed Financial Information of
    Registrant   (Continued)  

Payments of interest and principal on surplus notes, which are
    subordinate to all other obligations of the issuing company, may
    be made only with the prior approval of the insurance department
    of the state of domicile.

4.    

Long-term
    and Short-term Debt  

Long-term
    Debt   

Long-term debt outstanding is as follows:

(1)  

Consists of affiliated senior notes associated with bonds held
    by ALICO. 

The aggregate maturities of long-term debt at December 31,
    2010 for the next five years and thereafter are
    $751 million in 2011, $797 million in 2012,
    $749 million in 2013, $1,350 million in 2014,
    $1,284 million in 2015 and $11,992 million thereafter.

Short-term
    Debt   

There was no short-term debt outstanding at both
    December 31, 2010 and 2009. During the years ended
    December 31, 2009 and 2008, the weighted average interest
    rate on short-term debt was 1.25% and 2.5%, respectively. During
    the year ended December 31, 2009, the average daily balance
    on short-term debt was $5 million, and the average days
    outstanding was 6 days. There was no short-term debt
    activity in 2010.

Interest
    Expense   

Interest expense is comprised of the following:

5.    

Support
    Agreements  

The Holding Company is party to various capital support
    commitments and guarantees with certain of its subsidiaries and
    a corporation in which it owns 50% of the equity. Under these
    arrangements, the Holding Company

F-218

Table of Contents   

MetLife,
    Inc. 

Schedule II  

Notes to
    the Condensed Financial Information of
    Registrant   (Continued)  

has agreed to cause each such entity to meet specified capital
    and surplus levels or has guaranteed certain contractual
    obligations.

In November 2010, the Holding Company guaranteed the obligations
    of Exeter Reassurance Company Ltd. ( Exeter ) in an
    aggregate amount up to $1.0 billion, under a reinsurance
    agreement with MetLife Europe Limited ( MEL ), under
    which Exeter reinsures the guaranteed living benefits and
    guaranteed death benefits associated with certain unit-linked
    annuity contracts issued by MEL.

In January 2010, the Holding Company guaranteed the obligations
    of its subsidiary, Missouri Reinsurance (Barbados) Inc.
    ( MoRe ), under a retrocession agreement with RGA
    Reinsurance (Barbados) Inc., pursuant to which MoRe retrocedes
    certain group term life insurance issued by MLIC.

In December 2009, the Holding Company, in connection with
    MetLife Reinsurance Company of Vermont s ( MRV )
    reinsurance of certain universal life and term life insurance
    risks, committed to the Vermont Department of Banking,
    Insurance, Securities and Health Care Administration to
    take necessary action to cause the third protected cell of MRV
    to maintain total adjusted capital equal to or greater than 200%
    of such protected cell s authorized control level
    risk-based capital ( RBC ), as defined in state
    insurance statutes. See Note 11 of the Notes to the
    Consolidated Financial Statements.

The Holding Company, in connection with MRV s reinsurance
    of certain universal life and term life insurance risks,
    committed to the Vermont Department of Banking, Insurance,
    Securities and Health Care Administration to take necessary
    action to cause each of the two initial protected cells of MRV
    to maintain total adjusted capital equal to or greater than 200%
    of such protected cell s authorized control level RBC,
    as defined in state insurance statutes. See Note 11 of the
    Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements.

The Holding Company, in connection with the collateral financing
    arrangement associated with MetLife Reinsurance Company of
    Charleston s ( MRC ) reinsurance of a portion of
    the liabilities associated with the closed block, committed to
    the South Carolina Department of Insurance to make capital
    contributions, if necessary, to MRC so that MRC may at all times
    maintain its total adjusted capital at a level of not less than
    200% of the company action level RBC, as defined in state
    insurance statutes as in effect on the date of determination or
    December 31, 2007, whichever calculation produces the
    greater capital requirement, or as otherwise required by the
    South Carolina Department of Insurance. See Note 12 of the
    Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements.

The Holding Company, in connection with the collateral financing
    arrangement associated with MetLife Reinsurance Company of South
    Carolina s ( MRSC ) reinsurance of universal life
    secondary guarantees, committed to the South Carolina Department
    of Insurance to take necessary action to cause MRSC to maintain
    total adjusted capital equal to the greater of $250,000 or 100%
    of MRSC s authorized control level RBC, as defined in
    state insurance statutes. See Note 12 of the Notes to the
    Consolidated Financial Statements.

The Holding Company has net worth maintenance agreements with
    two of its insurance subsidiaries, MetLife Investors Insurance
    Company and First MetLife Investors Insurance Company. Under
    these agreements, as subsequently amended, the Holding Company
    agreed, without limitation as to the amount, to cause each of
    these subsidiaries to have a minimum capital and surplus of
    $10 million, total adjusted capital at a level not less
    than 150% of the company action level RBC, as defined by
    state insurance statutes, and liquidity necessary to enable it
    to meet its current obligations on a timely basis.

The Holding Company has a net worth maintenance agreement with
    Mitsui Sumitomo MetLife Insurance Company Limited ( MSI
    MetLife ), an investment in Japan of which the Holding
    Company owns 50% of the equity. Under the agreement, the Holding
    Company agreed, without limitation as to amount, to cause MSI
    MetLife to have the amount of capital and surplus necessary for
    MSI MetLife to maintain a solvency ratio of at least 400%, as
    calculated in accordance with the Insurance Business Law of
    Japan, and to make such loans to MSI MetLife as may be necessary
    to ensure that MSI MetLife has sufficient cash or other liquid
    assets to meet its payment

F-219

Table of Contents   

MetLife,
    Inc. 

Schedule II  

Notes to
    the Condensed Financial Information of
    Registrant   (Continued)  

obligations as they fall due. As described in Note 2 of the
    Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements, the Holding
    Company reached an agreement to sell its 50% interest in MSI
    MetLife to a third-party. Upon the close of such sale, the
    Holding Company s obligations under the net worth
    maintenance agreement will terminate.

The Holding Company has guaranteed the obligations of its
    subsidiary, Exeter, under a reinsurance agreement with MSI
    MetLife under which Exeter reinsures variable annuities written
    by MSI MetLife. This guarantee will remain in place until such
    time as the reinsurance agreement between Exeter and MSI MetLife
    is terminated, notwithstanding any prior disposition of the
    Holding Company s interest in MSI MetLife as described in
    Note 2 of the Notes to the Consolidated Financial
    Statements.

The Holding Company also guarantees the obligations of a number
    of its subsidiaries under credit facilities with third-party
    banks. See Note 11 of the Notes to the Consolidated
    Financial Statements.

F-220

Table of Contents   

Schedule III

MetLife,
    Inc. 

Schedule III  

Consolidated
    Supplementary Insurance Information 
     December 31, 2010, 2009 and 2008 
    (In millions)  

(1)  

Amounts are included within the future policy benefits, other
    policy-related balances and policyholder dividend obligation
    column. 

F-221

Table of Contents   

MetLife,
    Inc. 

Schedule III   (Continued)  

Consolidated
    Supplementary Insurance Information 
    December 31, 2010, 2009 and 2008 
    (In millions)  

(1)  

Includes other expenses and policyholder dividends, excluding
    amortization of deferred policy acquisition costs
    ( DAC ) and value of business acquired
    ( VOBA ), charged to other expenses. 

F-222

Table of Contents   

Schedule IV

MetLife,
    Inc. 

Schedule IV  

Consolidated
    Reinsurance 
     December 31, 2010, 2009 and 2008 
    (In millions)  

F-223

Table of Contents   

Item 9.      

Changes
    in and Disagreements With Accountants on Accounting and
    Financial Disclosure   

None.

Item 9A.      

Controls
    and Procedures   

Management, with the participation of the Chief Executive
    Officer and Chief Financial Officer, has evaluated the
    effectiveness of the design and operation of the Company s
    disclosure controls and procedures as defined in Exchange Act
     Rule 13a-15(e) 
    as of the end of the period covered by this report. Based on
    that evaluation, the Chief Executive Officer and Chief Financial
    Officer have concluded that these disclosure controls and
    procedures are effective.

Management s
    Annual Report on Internal Control Over Financial
    Reporting   

Management of MetLife, Inc. and subsidiaries is responsible for
    establishing and maintaining adequate internal control over
    financial reporting. In fulfilling this responsibility,
    estimates and judgments by management are required to assess the
    expected benefits and related costs of control procedures. The
    objectives of internal control include providing management with
    reasonable, but not absolute, assurance that assets are
    safeguarded against loss from unauthorized use or disposition,
    and that transactions are executed in accordance with
    management s authorization and recorded properly to permit
    the preparation of consolidated financial statements in
    conformity with accounting principles generally accepted in the
    United States of America ( GAAP ).

Management has documented and evaluated the effectiveness of the
    internal control of the Company at December 31, 2010
    pertaining to financial reporting in accordance with the
    criteria established in Internal Control   Integrated
    Framework issued by the Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of
    the Treadway Commission.

On November 1, 2010, the Holding Company acquired all of
    the issued and outstanding capital stock of American Life
    Insurance Company and Delaware American Life Insurance Company
    (collectively,  ALICO ). As allowed under the
    U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission (the
     SEC ) guidance, management s assessment of and
    conclusion regarding the design and effectiveness of internal
    control over financial reporting excluded the internal control
    over financial reporting of ALICO, which is relevant to the
    Company s 2010 consolidated financial statements as of and
    for the year ended December 31, 2010. ALICO represents 17%
    of total assets, and 2% of total revenues of MetLife, Inc. as of
    and for the year ended December 31, 2010. The financial
    reporting systems of ALICO have not yet been integrated into the
    Company s financial reporting systems and, as such, the
    Company did not have the practical ability to perform an
    assessment of ALICO s internal control over financial
    reporting in time for this current year-end. Management expects
    to complete the process of integrating ALICO s internal
    control over financial reporting over the course of 2011. The
    ALICO acquisition represents a material change in internal
    control over financial reporting as defined in Exchange Act
     Rule 13a-15(f) 
    during the quarter ended December 31, 2010.

In the opinion of management, MetLife, Inc. maintained effective
    internal control over financial reporting at December 31,
    2010.

Deloitte   Touche LLP, an independent registered
    public accounting firm, has audited the consolidated financial
    statements and consolidated financial statement schedules
    included in the Annual Report on
     Form 10-K 
    for the year ended December 31, 2010. The Report of the
    Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm on their audit of
    the consolidated financial statements and consolidated financial
    statement schedules is included at
     page F-1. 

Attestation
    Report of the Company s Registered Public Accounting
    Firm   

The Company s independent registered public accounting
    firm, Deloitte   Touche LLP, has issued their
    attestation report on management s internal control over
    financial reporting which is set forth below.

192

Table of Contents   

Report of
    Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm  

To the Board of Directors and Stockholders of

MetLife, Inc.:

We have audited the internal control over financial reporting of
    MetLife, Inc. and subsidiaries (the  Company ) as of
    December 31, 2010, based on criteria established in
     Internal Control   Integrated Framework  issued
    by the Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of the Treadway
    Commission. As described in Management s Annual Report on
    Internal Control Over Financial Reporting, management excluded
    from its assessment the internal control over financial
    reporting at ALICO, acquired on November 1, 2010, as the
    financial reporting systems of ALICO have not yet been
    integrated into the Company s financial reporting systems
    and, as such, the Company did not have the practical ability to
    perform an assessment of ALICO s internal control over
    financial reporting in time for this current year-end. ALICO
    represents 17% of total assets and 2% of total revenues of the
    Company as of and for the year ended December 31, 2010.
    Accordingly, our audit did not include the internal control over
    financial reporting at ALICO. The Company s management is
    responsible for maintaining effective internal control over
    financial reporting and for its assessment of the effectiveness
    of internal control over financial reporting, included in the
    accompanying Management s Annual Report on Internal Control
    Over Financial Reporting. Our responsibility is to express an
    opinion on the Company s internal control over financial
    reporting based on our audit.

We conducted our audit in accordance with the standards of the
    Public Company Accounting Oversight Board (United States). Those
    standards require that we plan and perform the audit to obtain
    reasonable assurance about whether effective internal control
    over financial reporting was maintained in all material
    respects. Our audit included obtaining an understanding of
    internal control over financial reporting, assessing the risk
    that a material weakness exists, testing and evaluating the
    design and operating effectiveness of internal control based on
    the assessed risk, and performing such other procedures as we
    considered necessary in the circumstances. We believe that our
    audit provides a reasonable basis for our opinion.

A company s internal control over financial reporting is a
    process designed by, or under the supervision of, the
    company s principal executive and principal financial
    officers, or persons performing similar functions, and effected
    by the company s board of directors, management, and other
    personnel to provide reasonable assurance regarding the
    reliability of financial reporting and the preparation of
    financial statements for external purposes in accordance with
    generally accepted accounting principles. A company s
    internal control over financial reporting includes those
    policies and procedures that (1) pertain to the maintenance
    of records that, in reasonable detail, accurately and fairly
    reflect the transactions and dispositions of the assets of the
    company; (2) provide reasonable assurance that transactions
    are recorded as necessary to permit preparation of financial
    statements in accordance with generally accepted accounting
    principles, and that receipts and expenditures of the company
    are being made only in accordance with authorizations of
    management and directors of the company; and (3) provide
    reasonable assurance regarding prevention or timely detection of
    unauthorized acquisition, use, or disposition of the
    company s assets that could have a material effect on the
    financial statements.

Because of the inherent limitations of internal control over
    financial reporting, including the possibility of collusion or
    improper management override of controls, material misstatements
    due to error or fraud may not be prevented or detected on a
    timely basis. Also, projections of any evaluation of the
    effectiveness of the internal control over financial reporting
    to future periods are subject to the risk that the controls may
    become inadequate because of changes in conditions, or that the
    degree of compliance with the policies or procedures may
    deteriorate.

In our opinion, the Company maintained, in all material
    respects, effective internal control over financial reporting as
    of December 31, 2010, based on the criteria established in
     Internal Control   Integrated Framework  issued
    by the Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of the Treadway
    Commission.

We have also audited, in accordance with the standards of the
    Public Company Accounting Oversight Board (United States), the
    consolidated financial statements and financial statement
    schedules of the Company as of and for the year ended
    December 31, 2010, and our report dated February 24, 2011
    expressed an unqualified opinion on those consolidated financial
    statements and financial statement schedules.

/s/   DELOITTE  
    TOUCHE LLP 

DELOITTE  
    TOUCHE LLP

New York, New York

February 24, 2011

193

Table of Contents   

Item 9B.      

Other
    Information   

None.

194

Table of Contents   

Part III  

Item 10.      

Directors,
    Executive Officers and Corporate Governance   

The information called for by this Item pertaining to Directors
    is incorporated herein by reference to the sections entitled
     Proposal 1   Election of Directors, 
     Corporate Governance   Information About the
    Board of Directors,   Corporate Governance  
    Board Committees,   Corporate Governance  
    Membership on Board Committees  and  Security
    Ownership of Directors and Executive Officers  
    Section 16(a) Beneficial Ownership Reporting
    Compliance  in MetLife, Inc. s definitive proxy
    statement for the Annual Meeting of Shareholders to be held on
    April 26, 2011, to be filed by MetLife, Inc. with the SEC
    pursuant to Regulation 14A within 120 days after the
    year ended December 31, 2010 (the  2011 Proxy
    Statement ).

The information called for by this Item pertaining to Executive
    Officers appears in  Part I   Item 1.
    Business   Executive Officers of the Registrant 
    and  Security Ownership of Directors and Executive
    Officers   Section 16(a) Beneficial Ownership
    Reporting Compliance  in the 2011 Proxy Statement.

The Company has adopted the MetLife Financial Management Code of
    Professional Conduct (the  Financial Management
    Code ), a  code of ethics  as defined under the
    rules of the SEC, that applies to the Holding Company s
    Chief Executive Officer, Chief Financial Officer, Chief
    Accounting Officer and all professionals in finance and
    finance-related departments. In addition, the Company has
    adopted the Directors  Code of Business Conduct and Ethics
    (the  Directors  Code ) which applies to all
    members of the Holding Company s Board of Directors,
    including the Chief Executive Officer, and the Employee Code of
    Business Conduct and Ethics (together with the Financial
    Management Code and the Directors  Code, collectively, the
     Ethics Codes ), which applies to all employees of the
    Company, including the Holding Company s Chief Executive
    Officer, Chief Financial Officer and Chief Accounting Officer.
    The Ethics Codes are available on the Company s website at
     http://www.metlife.com/about/corporate-profile/corporate-governance/corporate-conduct/index.html. 
    The Company intends to satisfy its disclosure obligations under
    Item 5.05 of
     Form 8-K 
    by posting information about amendments to, or waivers from a
    provision of, the Ethics Codes that apply to the Holding
    Company s Chief Executive Officer, Chief Financial Officer
    and Chief Accounting Officer on the Company s website at
    the address given above.

Item 11.      

Executive
    Compensation   

The information called for by this Item is incorporated herein
    by reference to the sections entitled  Corporate
    Governance   Board Committees,   Corporate
    Governance   Compensation of Non-Management
    Directors,   Compensation Committee Report, 
     Compensation Discussion and Analysis,   Summary
    Compensation Table,   Grants of Plan-Based Awards in
    2010,   Outstanding Equity Awards at 2010 Fiscal
    Year-End,   Option Exercises and Stock Vested in
    2010,   Pension Benefits,   Nonqualified
    Deferred Compensation  and  Potential Payments Upon
    Termination or
     Change-in-Control  
    in the 2011 Proxy Statement.

Item 12.      

Security
    Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owners and Management and
    Related Stockholder Matters   

The information called for by this Item pertaining to ownership
    of the Holding Company s common stock is incorporated
    herein by reference to the sections entitled  Security
    Ownership of Directors and Executive Officers  and
     Security Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owners  in
    the 2011 Proxy Statement. The following table provides

195

Table of Contents   

information, at December 31, 2010, regarding the securities
    authorized for issuance under the Holding Company s equity
    compensation plans:

Equity
    Compensation Plan Information at December 31,
    2010  

(1)  

Includes the MetLife, Inc. 2000 Stock Incentive Plan (the
     2000 Stock Plan ) and the MetLife, Inc.
    2000 Directors Stock Plan (the  2000 Directors
    Stock Plan ) each of which was approved by Metropolitan
    Life Insurance Company ( MLIC ), the sole shareholder
    of the Holding Company at the time of approval. The
    policyholders of MLIC entitled to vote on its plan of
    reorganization (the  Plan of Reorganization ) approved
    the Plan of Reorganization, which included both the 2000 Stock
    Plan and the 2000 Directors Stock Plan. The policyholders
    entitled to so vote received a summary description of each plan,
    including the applicable limits on the number of shares of
    common stock of the Holding Company ( Shares )
    available for issuance under each plan. Also includes the
    MetLife, Inc. 2005 Stock and Incentive Compensation Plan (the
     2005 Stock Plan ) and the MetLife, Inc. 2005
    Non-Management Director Stock Compensation Plan (the
     2005 Directors Stock Plan ), which were approved
    by Holding Company security holders. 

(2)  

As of December 31, 2010, awards of Stock Options remained
    outstanding under the 2000 Stock Plan and 2000 Directors
    Stock Plan, and awards of Stock Options, Performance Shares, and
    Restricted Stock Units (each as defined in the 2005 Stock Plan)
    remained outstanding under the 2005 Stock Plan. In addition, as
    of December 31, 2010, a number of Shares that had vested
    and become payable from any awards under any plan, but had been
    deferred, remained deferred and unpaid ( Deferred
    Shares ). 

Under the award agreements that apply to the Performance Share
    awards made under the 2005 Stock Plan as of December 31,
    2010, Shares are payable to eligible award recipients following
    the conclusion of the performance period. The number of shares
    payable is determined by multiplying the number of performance
    shares by a performance factor (from 0% to 200%) based on the
    performance of the Holding Company with respect to:
    (i) change in annual net operating earnings per share; and
    (ii) proportionate total shareholder return, as defined, as
    a percentile of the performance of other companies in the
    Fortune
    500   

    companies in the Standard   Poor s Insurance
    Index, with such exceptions as the Holding Company Compensation
    Committee has determined, with regard to the performance period.
    With respect to Performance Share awards made in 2010, no
    Performance Shares will be payable unless the Holding Company
    generates positive net income for either the third year of the
    performance period or for the performance period as a whole. In
    addition, with respect to Performance Share awards made in 2009
    and 2010, the performance factor will be multiplied by 0.75 if
    the Holding Company s total shareholder return with regard
    to the performance period is zero percent or less. 

Under the award agreements that apply to the Restricted Stock
    Unit awards made under the 2005 Stock Plan as of
    December 31, 2010, Shares equal to the number of Restricted
    Stock Units awarded are normally payable to eligible award
    recipients on the third or later anniversary of the date the
    Restricted Stock Units were granted. 

(3)  

Column (b) reflects the weighted average exercise price of
    all Stock Options under any plan that, as of December 31,
    2010, had been granted but not forfeited, expired, or exercised.
    Performance Shares, Restricted Stock Units, and Deferred Shares
    are not included in determining the weighted average in column
    (b) because they have no exercise price. 

196

Table of Contents   

(4)  

The aggregate number of Shares available for issuance under the
    2005 Stock Plan is 68,000,000. In addition,
    6,099,881 Shares that were available but had not been
    utilized under the 2000 Stock Plan became available for issuance
    under the 2005 Stock Plan at the time the 2005 Stock Plan became
    effective. At December 31, 2010, 6,957,603 additional
    Shares recovered due to forfeiture or expiration of awards under
    the 2000 Stock Plan, or that, under the Plan of Reorganization,
    would otherwise have reduced the number of Shares available for
    issuance under the 2000 Stock Plan, from the time the 2005 Stock
    Plan became effective to December 31, 2010, were also
    available for issuance under the 2005 Stock Plan. The aggregate
    number of Shares available for issuance under the
    2005 Directors Stock Plan is 2,000,000. 

Each Share issued under the 2005 Stock Plan in connection with
    awards other than Stock Options or Stock Appreciation Rights
    (including Shares payable on account of Performance Shares,
    Restricted Stock Units, and Stock-Based Awards) reduces the
    number of Shares remaining for issuance under the 2005 Stock
    Plan by 1.179 Shares. Each Share issued under the 2005
    Stock Plan in connection with a Stock Option or Stock
    Appreciation Right reduces the number of Shares remaining for
    issuance under the 2005 Stock Plan by 1.0. 

As of December 31, 2010, all Stock-Based awards made under
    the 2005 Directors Stock Plan have been immediately vested.
    Share awards to Directors under the 2000 Directors Stock
    Plan were made under a separate Share award authorization under
    that plan, and have not reduced the number of Shares remaining
    available for issuance under any plan as of December 31,
    2010. 

Under the 2005 Stock Plan, awards may be in the form of Stock
    Options, Stock Appreciation Rights, Restricted Stock or
    Restricted Stock Units, Performance Shares or Performance Share
    Units, Cash-Based Awards, and Stock-Based Awards (each as
    defined in the 2005 Stock Plan). Under the MetLife, Inc. 2005
    Non-Management Director Stock Compensation Plan (the
     2005 Directors Stock Plan ), awards granted may
    be in the form of non-qualified Stock Options, Stock
    Appreciation Rights, Restricted Stock or Restricted Stock Units,
    or Stock-Based Awards (each as defined in the
    2005 Directors Stock Plan). Under both the 2005 Stock Plan
    and the 2005 Directors Stock Plan, in the event of a
    corporate event or transaction (including, but not limited to, a
    change in the Shares or the capitalization of the Holding
    Company) such as a merger, consolidation, reorganization,
    recapitalization, separation, stock dividend, extraordinary
    dividend, stock split, reverse stock split, split up, spin-off,
    or other distribution of stock or property of the Holding
    Company, combination of securities, exchange of securities,
    dividend in kind, or other like change in capital structure or
    distribution (other than normal cash dividends) to shareholders
    of the Holding Company, or any similar corporate event or
    transaction, the appropriate committee of the Board of Directors
    of the Holding Company (each, a  Committee ), in order
    to prevent dilution or enlargement of participants  rights
    under the applicable plan, shall in its sole discretion
    substitute or adjust, as applicable, the number and kind of
    Shares that may be issued under that plan and shall adjust the
    number and kind of Shares subject to outstanding awards. Any
    Shares related to awards under either plan which:
    (i) terminate by expiration, forfeiture, cancellation, or
    otherwise without the issuance of Shares; (ii) are settled
    in cash either in lieu of Shares or otherwise; or (iii) are
    exchanged with the appropriate Committee s permission for
    awards not involving Shares, are available again for grant under
    the applicable plan. If the option price of any Stock Option
    granted under either plan or the tax withholding requirements
    with respect to any award granted under either plan are
    satisfied by tendering Shares to the Holding Company (by either
    actual delivery or by attestation), or if a Stock Appreciation
    Right is exercised, only the number of Shares issued, net of the
    Shares tendered, if any, will be deemed delivered for purposes
    of determining the maximum number of Shares available for
    issuance under that plan. The maximum number of Shares available
    for issuance under either plan shall not be reduced to reflect
    any dividends or dividend equivalents that are reinvested into
    additional Shares or credited as additional Restricted Stock,
    Restricted Stock Units, or Stock-Based Awards. 

197

Table of Contents   

Item 13.      

Certain
    Relationships and Related Transactions, and Director
    Independence   

The information called for by this Item is incorporated herein
    by reference to the sections entitled  Corporate
    Governance   Procedures for Reviewing Related Person
    Transactions,   Corporate Governance  
    Related Person Transactions  and  Corporate
    Governance   Information About the Board of
    Directors   Responsibilities, Independence and
    Composition of the Board of Directors  in the 2011 Proxy
    Statement.

Item 14.      

Principal
    Accountant Fees and Services   

The information called for by this item is incorporated herein
    by reference to the section entitled
     Proposal 4   Ratification of Appointment of
    the Independent Auditor  in the 2011 Proxy Statement.

198

Table of Contents   

Part IV  

Item 15.      

Exhibits
    and Financial Statement Schedules   

The following documents are filed as part of this report:

1. Financial Statements

The financial statements are listed in the Index to Consolidated
    Financial Statements and Schedules on page 191.

2. Financial Statement Schedules

The financial statement schedules are listed in the Index to
    Consolidated Financial Statements and Schedules on page 191.

3. Exhibits

The exhibits are listed in the Exhibit Index which begins
    on
     page E-1. 

199

Table of Contents   

Signatures  

Pursuant to the requirements of Section 13 or 15(d) of the
    Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused
    this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned,
    thereunto duly authorized.

February 24, 2011

METLIFE, INC.

By 

/s/   C.
    Robert Henrikson 

Name:     C. Robert Henrikson

Title: 

Chairman of the Board, President 

and Chief Executive Officer 

Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of
    1934, this report has been signed below by the following persons
    on behalf of the registrant and in the capacities and on the
    dates indicated.

200

Table of Contents   

Signature 

Title 

Date 

/s/   Kenton
    J. Sicchitano 

Kenton
    J. Sicchitano

Director

February 24, 2011

/s/   Lulu
    C. Wang 

Lulu
    C. Wang

Director

February 24, 2011

/s/   C.
    Robert Henrikson 

C.
    Robert Henrikson

Chairman of the Board, President and Chief Executive Officer
    (Principal Executive Officer)

February 24, 2011

/s/   William
    J. Wheeler 

William
    J. Wheeler

Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer (Principal
    Financial Officer)

February 24, 2011

/s/   Peter
    M. Carlson 

Peter
    M. Carlson

Executive Vice President, Finance Operations and Chief
    Accounting Officer (Principal Accounting Officer)

February 24, 2011

201

Table of Contents   

Exhibit Index  

( Note Regarding Reliance on Statements in Our
    Contracts:    In reviewing the agreements included
    as exhibits to this Annual Report on
     Form 10-K, 
    please remember that they are included to provide you with
    information regarding their terms and are not intended to
    provide any other factual or disclosure information about
    MetLife, Inc., its subsidiaries or the other parties to the
    agreements. The agreements contain representations and
    warranties by each of the parties to the applicable agreement.
    These representations and warranties have been made solely for
    the benefit of the other parties to the applicable agreement and
    (i) should not in all instances be treated as categorical
    statements of fact, but rather as a way of allocating the risk
    to one of the parties if those statements prove to be
    inaccurate; (ii) have been qualified by disclosures that
    were made to the other party in connection with the negotiation
    of the applicable agreement, which disclosures are not
    necessarily reflected in the agreement; (iii) may apply
    standards of materiality in a way that is different from what
    may be viewed as material to investors; and (iv) were made
    only as of the date of the applicable agreement or such other
    date or dates as may be specified in the agreement and are
    subject to more recent developments. Accordingly, these
    representations and warranties may not describe the actual state
    of affairs as of the date they were made or at any other time.
    Additional information about us may be found elsewhere in this
    Annual Report on
     Form 10-K 
    and MetLife, Inc. s other public filings, which are
    available without charge through the SEC s website at
    www.sec.gov.) 

Exhibit 

No.      

Description    

2.1

Plan of Reorganization (Incorporated by reference to
    Exhibit 2.1 to MetLife, Inc. s Registration Statement
    on
     Form S-1 
     (No. 333-91517) 
    (the
      S-1 
    Registration Statement )).

2.2

Amendment to Plan of Reorganization dated as of March 9,
    2000 (Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 2.2 to the
     S-1 
    Registration Statement).

2.3

Acquisition Agreement between MetLife, Inc. and Citigroup Inc.,
    dated as of January 31, 2005 (Incorporated by reference to
    Exhibit 2.3 to MetLife, Inc. s Annual Report on
     Form 10-K 
    for the fiscal year ended December 31, 2009 (the  2009
    Annual Report )).

2.4

Stock Purchase Agreement, dated as of March 7, 2010, by and
    among MetLife, Inc., ALICO Holdings LLC ( ALICO
    Holdings ) and American International Group, Inc.
    ( AIG ) (Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 2.1
    to MetLife, Inc. Current Report on
     Form 8-K 
    dated May 7, 2010 (the  May 7, 2010
     Form 8-K )). 

2.5

Amendment dated October 28, 2010 among MetLife, Inc., ALICO
    Holdings and AIG amending the Stock Purchase Agreement, dated as
    of March 7, 2010 by and among MetLife, Inc., ALICO Holdings
    and AIG (the  Stock Purchase Agreement ) (Incorporated
    by reference to Exhibit 2.1 to MetLife, Inc. s Current
    Report on
     Form 8-K 
    dated October 27, 2010 (the  October 27, 2010
     Form 8-K )). 

2.6

Amendment dated October 29, 2010 among MetLife, Inc., ALICO
    Holdings and AIG amending the Stock Purchase Agreement
    (Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 2.2 to the
    October 27, 2010
     Form 8-K). 

3.1

Amended and Restated Certificate of Incorporation of MetLife,
    Inc. (Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 3.1 to MetLife,
    Inc. s Annual Report on
     Form 10-K 
    for the fiscal year ended December 31, 2006 (the  2006
    Annual Report )).

3.2

Certificate of Designation, Preferences and Rights of
    Series A Junior Participating Preferred Stock of MetLife,
    Inc., filed with the Secretary of State of Delaware on
    April 7, 2000 (Incorporated by reference to
    Exhibit 3.2 to the 2006 Annual Report).

3.3

Certificate of Designations of Floating Rate Non-Cumulative
    Preferred Stock, Series A, of MetLife, Inc., filed with the
    Secretary of State of Delaware on June 10, 2005
    (Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 99.5 to MetLife,
    Inc. s Registration Statement on
     Form 8-A 
    filed on June 10, 2005).

3.4

Certificate of Designations of 6.50% Non-Cumulative Preferred
    Stock, Series B, of MetLife, Inc., filed with the Secretary
    of State of Delaware on June 14, 2005 (Incorporated by
    reference to Exhibit 99.5 to MetLife, Inc. s
    Registration Statement on
     Form 8-A 
    filed on June 15, 2005).

3.5

Certificate of Designations of Series B Contingent
    Convertible Junior Participating Non-Cumulative Perpetual
    Preferred Stock, filed with the Secretary of State of Delaware
    on October 27, 2010 (Incorporated by reference to
    Exhibit 3.1 to MetLife, Inc. s Current Report on
     Form 8-K 
    dated October 27, 2010).

E-1

Table of Contents   

Exhibit 

No.      

Description    

3.6

MetLife, Inc. Amended and Restated By-Laws effective
    January 26, 2010.

4.1(a)

Indenture dated as of November 9, 2001 between MetLife,
    Inc. and Bank One Trust Company, N.A. (predecessor to The
    Bank of New York Trust Company, N.A.) relating to Senior
    Debt Securities (Incorporated by reference to
    Exhibit 4.1(a) to the 2006 Annual Report).

4.1(b)

Form of Indenture for Senior Debt Securities between MetLife,
    Inc. and one or more banking institutions to be qualified as
    Trustee pursuant to Section 305(b)(2) of the
    Trust Indenture Act of 1939 (Included in
    Exhibit 4.1(a) incorporated by reference to
    Exhibit 4.1(a) to the 2006 Annual Report, except for the
    name of the trustee).

4.2

Second Supplemental Indenture dated as of November 27, 2001
    between MetLife, Inc. and Bank One Trust Company, N.A.
    (predecessor to The Bank of New York Trust Company, N.A.)
    relating to the 6.125% Senior Notes due December 1,
    2011(Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 4.3 to the 2006
    Annual Report).

4.3

Third Supplemental Indenture dated as of December 10, 2002
    between MetLife, Inc. and Bank One Trust Company, N.A.
    (predecessor to The Bank of New York Trust Company, N.A.)
    relating to the 5.375% Senior Notes due December 15,
    2012 (Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 4.3 to MetLife,
    Inc. s Annual Report on
     Form 10-K 
    for the fiscal year ended December 31, 2007 (the  2007
    Annual Report )).

4.4

Fourth Supplemental Indenture dated as of December 10, 2002
    between MetLife, Inc. and Bank One Trust Company, N.A.
    (predecessor to The Bank of New York Trust Company, N.A.)
    relating to the 6.50% Senior Notes due December 15,
    2032 (Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 4.4 to the 2007
    Annual Report).

4.5

Fifth Supplemental Indenture dated as of November 21, 2003
    between MetLife, Inc. and J.P. Morgan Trust Company,
    National Association (predecessor to The Bank of New York
    Trust Company, N.A.) relating to the 5.875% Senior
    Notes due November 21, 2033 (Incorporated by reference to
    Exhibit 4.5 to MetLife, Inc. s Annual Report on
     Form 10-K 
    for the fiscal year ended December 31, 2008 (the  2008
    Annual Report )).

4.6

Sixth Supplemental Indenture dated as of November 24, 2003
    between MetLife, Inc. and J.P. Morgan Trust Company,
    National Association (predecessor to The Bank of New York
    Trust Company, N.A.) relating to the 5.00% Senior
    Notes due November 24, 2013 (Incorporated by reference to
    Exhibit 4.6 to the 2008 Annual Report).

4.7

Seventh Supplemental Indenture dated as of June 3, 2004
    between MetLife, Inc. and J.P. Morgan Trust Company,
    National Association (predecessor to The Bank of New York
    Trust Company, N.A.), as trustee, relating to the
    5.50% Senior Notes due June 15, 2014 (Incorporated by
    reference to Exhibit 4.7 to the 2009 Annual Report).

4.8

Eighth Supplemental Indenture dated as of June 3, 2004
    between MetLife, Inc. and J.P. Morgan Trust Company,
    National Association (predecessor to The Bank of New York
    Trust Company, N.A.), as trustee, relating to the
    6.375% Senior Notes due June 15, 2034 (Incorporated by
    reference to Exhibit 4.8 to the 2009 Annual Report).

4.9

Ninth Supplemental Indenture dated as of July 23, 2004
    between MetLife, Inc. and J.P. Morgan Trust Company,
    National Association (predecessor to The Bank of New York
    Trust Company, N.A.), as trustee, relating to the
    5.50% Senior Notes due June 15, 2014 (Incorporated by
    reference to Exhibit 4.9 to the 2009 Annual Report).

4.10

Tenth Supplemental Indenture dated as of July 23, 2004
    between MetLife, Inc. and J.P. Morgan Trust Company,
    National Association (predecessor to The Bank of New York
    Trust Company, N.A.), as trustee, relating to the
    6.375% Senior Notes due June 15, 2034 (Incorporated by
    reference to Exhibit 4.10 to the 2009 Annual Report).

4.11

Eleventh Supplemental Indenture dated as of December 9,
    2004 between MetLife, Inc. and J.P. Morgan
    Trust Company, National Association (predecessor to The
    Bank of New York Trust Company, N.A.), as trustee, relating
    to the 5.375% Senior Notes due December 9, 2024
    (Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 4.11 to the 2009
    Annual Report).

4.12

Twelfth Supplemental Indenture dated as of June 23, 2005
    between MetLife, Inc. and J.P. Morgan Trust Company,
    National Association (predecessor to The Bank of New York
    Trust Company, N.A.), as trustee, relating to the
    5.00% Senior Notes due June 15, 2015.

4.13

Thirteenth Supplemental Indenture dated as of June 23, 2005
    between MetLife, Inc. and J.P. Morgan Trust Company,
    National Association (predecessor to The Bank of New York
    Trust Company, N.A.), as trustee, relating to the
    5.70% Senior Notes due June 15, 2035.

E-2

Table of Contents   

E-3

Table of Contents   

E-4

Table of Contents   

Exhibit 

No.      

Description    

4.53

Form of security certificate representing MetLife, Inc. s
    10.750%
     Fixed-to-Floating 
    Rate Junior Subordinated Debentures due 2069 (Included in
    Exhibit 4.47 incorporated by reference to Exhibit 4.1
    to the July 2009
     Form 8-K). 

4.54

Certificate of Trust of MetLife Capital Trust III
    (Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 4.7 to MetLife,
    Inc. s, MetLife Capital Trust II s and MetLife
    Capital Trust III s Registration Statement on
     Form S-3 
    (Nos.
     333-61282, 
     333-61282-01 
    and
     333-61282-02) 
    (the  2001
     S-3 
    Registration Statement )).

4.55

Certificate of Amendment to Certificate of Trust of MetLife
    Capital Trust III (Incorporated by reference to
    Exhibit 4.6 to MetLife, Inc. s., MetLife Capital
    Trust II s and MetLife Capital Trust III s
    Registration Statement on
     Form S-3 
    (Nos.
     333-112073, 
     333-112073-01 
    and
     333-112073-02) 
    (the  2004
     S-3 
    Registration Statement )).

4.56

Certificate of Trust of MetLife Capital Trust V
    (Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 4.3 to MetLife,
    Inc. s, MetLife Capital Trust V s, MetLife
    Capital Trust VI s, MetLife Capital
    Trust VII s, MetLife Capital Trust VIII s
    and MetLife Capital Trust IX s Registration Statement
    on
     Form S-3 
    (Nos.
     333-147180, 
     333-147180-01, 
     333-147180-02, 
     333-147180-03, 
     333-147180-04 
    and
     333-147180-05) 
    (the  2007
     S-3 
    Registration Statement )).

4.57

Certificate of Trust of MetLife Capital Trust VI
    (Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 4.4 to the 2007
     S-3 
    Registration Statement).

4.58

Certificate of Trust of MetLife Capital Trust VII
    (Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 4.5 to the 2007
     S-3 
    Registration Statement).

4.59

Certificate of Trust of MetLife Capital Trust VIII
    (Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 4.6 to the 2007
     S-3 
    Registration Statement).

4.60

Certificate of Trust of MetLife Capital Trust IX
    (Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 4.7 to the 2007
     S-3 
    Registration Statement).

4.61

Amended and Restated Declaration of Trust of MetLife Capital
    Trust III dated as of June 21, 2005.

4.62

Declaration of Trust of MetLife Capital Trust V
    (Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 4.8 to the 2007
     S-3 
    Registration Statement).

4.63

Declaration of Trust of MetLife Capital Trust VI
    (Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 4.9 to the 2007
     S-3 
    Registration Statement).

4.64

Declaration of Trust of MetLife Capital Trust VII
    (Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 4.10 to the 2007
     S-3 
    Registration Statement).

4.65

Declaration of Trust of MetLife Capital Trust VIII
    (Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 4.11 to the 2007
     S-3 
    Registration Statement).

4.66

Declaration of Trust of MetLife Capital Trust IX
    (Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 4.12 to the 2007
     S-3 
    Registration Statement).

4.67

Form of Amended and Restated Declaration of Trust (substantially
    identical, except for names and dates, for MetLife Capital
    Trust V, MetLife Capital Trust VI, MetLife Capital
    Trust VII, MetLife Capital Trust VIII and MetLife
    Capital Trust IX) (Incorporated by reference to
    Exhibit 4.13 to the 2007
     S-3 
    Registration Statement).

4.68

Form of Trust Preferred Security Certificate (substantially
    identical, except for names and dates, for MetLife Capital
    Trust V, MetLife Capital Trust VI, MetLife Capital
    Trust VII, MetLife Capital Trust VIII and MetLife
    Capital Trust IX) (Included in Exhibit 4.67
    incorporated by reference to Exhibit 4.13 to the 2007
     S-3 
    Registration Statement).

4.69

Guarantee Agreement dated June 21, 2005 by and between
    MetLife, Inc., as Guarantor, and J.P. Morgan
    Trust Company, National Association (predecessor to The
    Bank of New York Trust Company, N.A.), as Guarantee
    Trustee, relating to MetLife Capital Trust III.

4.70

Form of Trust Preferred Securities Guarantee Agreement
    (substantially identical, except for names and dates, for
    MetLife Capital Trust V, MetLife Capital Trust VI,
    MetLife Capital Trust VII, MetLife Capital Trust VIII
    and MetLife Capital Trust IX) (Incorporated by reference to
    Exhibit 4.15 to the 2007
     S-3 
    Registration Statement).

4.71

Form of Common Securities Guarantee Agreement (substantially
    identical, except for names and dates, for MetLife Capital
    Trust V, MetLife Capital Trust VI, MetLife Capital
    Trust VII, MetLife Capital Trust VIII and MetLife
    Capital Trust IX) (Incorporated by reference to
    Exhibit 4.16 to the 2007
     S-3 
    Registration Statement).

E-5

Table of Contents   

Exhibit 

No.      

Description    

4.72

Removal and Appointment of Trustees of MetLife Capital
    Trust III (Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 4.10
    to the 2004
     S-3 
    Registration Statement).

4.73

Form of Certificate for Common Stock, par value $0.01 per share
    (Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 4.1 to the
     S-1 
    Registration Statement).

4.74

Rights Agreement dated as of April 4, 2000 (expired on
    April 4, 2010) between MetLife, Inc. and ChaseMellon
    Shareholder Services, L.L.C. (predecessor to Mellon Investor
    Services LLC) (Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 4.48 to
    the 2006 Annual Report).

4.75

Certificate of Designation, Preferences and Rights of
    Series A Junior Participating Preferred Stock of MetLife,
    Inc., filed with the Secretary of State of Delaware on
    April 7, 2000 (See Exhibit 3.2 above).

4.76

Form of Right Certificate (Included as Exhibit B of
    Exhibit 4.74 incorporated by reference to Exhibit 4.48
    to the 2006 Annual Report).

4.77

Form of Warrant Agreement (Incorporated by reference to
    Exhibit 4.21 to the 2007
     S-3 
    Registration Statement)**.

4.78

Form of Deposit Agreement (Incorporated by reference to
    Exhibit 4.22 to the 2007
     S-3 
    Registration Statement)**.

4.79

Form of Depositary Receipt (Included in Exhibit 4.78
    incorporated by reference to Exhibit 4.22 to the 2007
     S-3 
    Registration Statement)**.

4.80

Form of Purchase Contract Agreement (Incorporated by reference
    to Exhibit 4.24 to the 2007
     S-3 
    Registration Statement)**.

4.81

Form of Pledge Agreement (Incorporated by reference to
    Exhibit 4.25 to the 2007
     S-3 
    Registration Statement)**.

4.82

Form of Unit Agreement (Incorporated by reference to
    Exhibit 4.26 to the 2007
     S-3 
    Registration Statement)**.

4.83

Stock Purchase Contract Agreement dated June 21, 2005
    between MetLife, Inc. and J.P. Morgan Trust Company,
    National Association (predecessor to The Bank of New York
    Trust Company, N.A.), as Stock Purchase Contract Agent.

4.84

Form of Normal Common Equity Unit Certificate (Included in
    Exhibit 4.83).

4.85

Form of Stripped Common Equity Unit Certificate (Included in
    Exhibit 4.83).

4.86

Pledge Agreement dated as of June 21, 2005 among MetLife,
    Inc., JP Morgan Chase Bank, National Association (predecessor to
    The Bank of New York Trust Company, N.A.), as Collateral
    Agent, Custodial Agent and Securities Intermediary, and
    J.P. Morgan Trust Company, National Association
    (predecessor to The Bank of New York Trust Company, N.A.),
    as Stock Purchase Contract Agent.

4.87

Certificate of Designations of Floating Rate Non-Cumulative
    Preferred Stock, Series A, of MetLife, Inc., filed with the
    Secretary of State of Delaware on June 10, 2005 (See
    Exhibit 3.3 above).

4.88

Form of Stock Certificate, Floating Rate Non-Cumulative
    Preferred Stock, Series A, of MetLife, Inc. (Incorporated
    by reference to Exhibit 99.6 to MetLife, Inc. s
    Registration Statement on Form 8-A filed on June 10, 2005).

4.89

Certificate of Designations of 6.50% Non-Cumulative Preferred
    Stock, Series B, of MetLife, Inc., filed with the Secretary
    of State of Delaware on June 14, 2005 (See Exhibit 3.4
    above).

4.90

Form of Stock Certificate, 6.50% Non-Cumulative Preferred Stock,
    Series B, of MetLife, Inc. (Incorporated by reference to
    Exhibit 99.6 to MetLife, Inc. s Registration Statement on
    Form 8-A filed on June 15, 2005).

4.91

Replacement Capital Covenant, dated as of December 21, 2006
    (Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 4.2 to the December
    2006
     Form 8-K). 

4.92

Replacement Capital Covenant, dated as of December 12, 2007
    (Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 4.2 to MetLife,
    Inc. s Current Report on
     Form 8-K 
    dated December 12, 2007).

4.93

Replacement Capital Covenant, dated as of April 8, 2008
    (Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 4.2 to MetLife,
    Inc. s Current Report on
     Form 8-K 
    dated April 8, 2008).

4.94

Replacement Capital Covenant, dated as of December 30, 2008
    (Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 4.1 to MetLife,
    Inc. s Current Report on
     Form 8-K 
    dated December 30, 2008 (the  December 2008
     Form 8-K )). 

E-6

Table of Contents   

E-7

Table of Contents   

E-8

Table of Contents   

E-9

Table of Contents   

E-10

Table of Contents   

E-11

Table of Contents   

101.INS

XBRL Instance Document.

101.SCH

XBRL Taxonomy Extension Schema Document.

101.CAL

XBRL Taxonomy Extension Calculation Linkbase Document.

101.LAB

XBRL Taxonomy Extension Label Linkbase Document.

101.PRE

XBRL Taxonomy Extension Presentation Linkbase Document.

101.DEF

XBRL Taxonomy Extension Definition Linkbase Document.

*  

Indicates management contracts or compensatory plans or
    arrangements. 

**  

Indicates document to be filed as an exhibit to a Current Report
    on
     Form 8-K 
    or Quarterly Report on
     Form 10-Q 
    pursuant to Item 601 of
     Regulation S-K 
    and incorporated herein by reference. 

E-12

<EX-3.6>
 2
 y87657exv3w6.htm
 EX-3.6

exv3w6 

Exhibit 3.6 

METLIFE, INC. 
AMENDED AND RESTATED BY LAWS 

Effective January 26, 2010 

METLIFE, INC. 

BY LAWS 

TABLE OF CONTENTS 

METLIFE, INC. 

AMENDED AND RESTATED BY LAWS 

Effective January 26, 2010 

ARTICLE I 
STOCKHOLDERS 

Section 1.01.  Annual Meetings . The annual meeting of the stockholders of the Corporation
for the election of Directors and for the transaction of such other business as properly may come
before such meeting shall be held at such place, either within or without the State of Delaware,
and at such date and at such time, as may be fixed from time to time by resolution of the Board of
Directors and set forth in the notice or waiver of notice of the meeting.

Section 1.02.  Special Meetings . Special meetings of the stockholders may be called at any
time by the Lead Director or the Chief Executive Officer (or, in the event of the Chief Executive
Officer s absence or disability, by the President or any Director who is also an officer
(hereafter, an  Officer Director )). A special meeting shall be called by the Chief Executive
Officer (or, in the event of the Chief Executive Officer s absence or disability, by the President
or any Officer Director) or by the Secretary pursuant to a resolution approved by a majority of the
entire Board of Directors. Such special meetings of the stockholders shall be held at such places,
within or without the State of Delaware, as shall be specified in the respective notices or waivers
of notice thereof. Any power of the stockholders of the Corporation to call a special meeting is
specifically denied.

Section 1.03.  Notice of Meetings; Waiver . The Secretary or any Assistant Secretary shall
cause written notice of the place, date and hour of each meeting of the stockholders and, in the
case of a special meeting, the purpose or purposes for which such meeting is called, to be given
personally or by mail, or in the case of stockholders who have consented to such delivery, by
electronic mail or other means of electronic transmission, not less than ten nor more than sixty
days prior to the meeting, to each stockholder of record entitled to vote at such meeting. If such
notice is mailed, it shall be deemed to have been given to a stockholder when deposited in the
United States mail, postage prepaid, directed to the stockholder at such stockholder s address as
it appears on the record of stockholders of the Corporation. If such notice is given by electronic
transmission, it will be deemed given: (a) if by electronic mail, when directed to an electronic
mail address at which the stockholder has consented to receive notice; or (b) if by posting on an
electronic network with separate notice to the stockholder of such specific posting, upon the later
of (i) such posting and (ii) the giving of such separate notice; or (c) if by other means of
electronic transmission,

1 

at the time specified in the applicable provisions of the General Corporation Law of the State of
Delaware. Such further notice of meetings of stockholders shall be given as may be required by
applicable law.

A written waiver of any notice of any annual or special meeting signed by the person entitled
thereto, shall be deemed equivalent to notice. Neither the business to be transacted at, nor the
purpose of, any regular or special meeting of the stockholders needs to be specified in a written
waiver of notice. Attendance of a stockholder at a meeting of stockholders shall constitute a
waiver of notice of such meeting, except when the stockholder attends a meeting for the express
purpose of objecting, at the beginning of the meeting, to the transaction of any business on the
ground that the meeting is not lawfully called or convened.

Section 1.04.  Quorum and Required Vote . Except as otherwise required by law or by the
Certificate of Incorporation, the presence in person or by proxy of the holders of record of
one-third of the shares entitled to vote at a meeting of stockholders shall constitute a quorum for
the transaction of business at such meeting. Except as otherwise required by law or by the
Certificate of Incorporation, these By-Laws or the rules or regulations of any stock exchange
applicable to the Corporation, the vote of a majority (or, in the case of the election of
Directors, a plurality) of the shares represented in person or by proxy and voting on the subject
matter at any meeting at which a quorum is present shall be sufficient for the transaction of any
business at such meeting.

Section 1.05.  Voting Rights . Subject to the rights of the holders of any class or series
of Preferred Stock, every holder of record of shares entitled to vote at a meeting of stockholders
shall be entitled to one vote for each share outstanding in such stockholder s name on the books of
the Corporation at the close of business on the date fixed pursuant to the provisions of Section
5.05 hereof as the record date for the determination of the stockholders who shall be entitled to
notice of and to vote at such meeting.

Section 1.06.  Voting by Ballot . No vote of the stockholders need be taken by written
ballot unless otherwise required by law. Any vote not required to be taken by ballot may be
conducted in any manner approved by the presiding officer at the meeting at which such vote is
taken.

Section 1.07.  Adjournment . If a quorum is not present at any meeting of the stockholders,
the presiding officer shall have the power to adjourn any such meeting from time to time until a
quorum is present. Notice of any adjourned meeting of the stockholders of the Corporation need not
be given if the place, date and hour thereof are announced at the meeting at which the adjournment
is taken, provided, however, that if the adjournment is for more than thirty days, or if after the
adjournment a new record date for the adjourned meeting is fixed pursuant to Section 5.05 of these
By-Laws, a notice of the adjourned meeting,

2 

conforming to the requirements of Section 1.03 hereof, shall be given to each stockholder of record
entitled to vote at such meeting. At any adjourned meeting at which a quorum is present, any
business may be transacted that might have been transacted on the original date of the meeting.

Section 1.08.  Proxies . Any stockholder entitled to vote at any meeting of the
stockholders may authorize another person or persons to vote at any such meeting for such
stockholder by proxy. A stockholder may authorize a valid proxy by executing a written instrument
signed by such stockholder, or such stockholder s authorized officer, director, employee or agent,
or by causing such signature to be affixed to such writing by any reasonable means including, but
not limited to, by facsimile signature, or by transmitting or authorizing the transmission of a
telegram, cablegram, data and voice telephonic communications, computer network, e-mail or other
means of electronic transmission to the person designated as the holder of the proxy, a proxy
solicitation firm, a proxy support service organization or a like authorized agent. No such proxy
shall be voted or acted upon after the expiration of three years from the date of such proxy,
unless such proxy provides for a longer period. Every proxy shall be revocable at the pleasure of
the stockholder executing it, except in those cases where applicable law provides that a proxy
shall be irrevocable. A stockholder may revoke any proxy which is not irrevocable by attending the
meeting and voting in person or by filing an instrument in writing revoking the proxy or by filing
another duly executed proxy bearing a later date with the Secretary. Proxies by telegram,
cablegram, data and voice telephonic communications, computer network, e-mail or other electronic
transmission must either set forth or be submitted with information from which it can be determined
that such electronic transmission was authorized by the stockholder. If it is determined that such
electronic transmission is valid, the inspectors shall specify the information upon which they
relied. Any copy, facsimile telecommunication or other reliable reproduction of a writing or
transmission created pursuant to this section may be substituted or used in lieu of the original
writing or transmission for any and all purposes for which the original writing or transmission
could be used, provided that such copy, facsimile telecommunication or other reproduction shall be
a complete reproduction of the entire original writing or transmission.

Section 1.09.  Presiding Officer and Secretary of the Meeting .

(a) At every meeting of stockholders the presiding officer shall be the Chairman or, in the event
of the Chairman s absence or disability, the Lead Director, or in the event of the Lead Director s
absence or disability, the President, or in the event of the President s absence or disability, any
officer designated by the Chief Executive Officer, or in the event of the Chief Executive Officer s
absence or the failure of the Chief Executive Officer to designate an officer for such purpose, any
officer chosen by resolution of the Board of Directors. The order of business and all other
matters of procedure at every meeting of stockholders may be determined by the presiding officer.
The Secretary, or in the event of the

3 

Secretary s absence or disability, any Assistant Secretary designated by the presiding officer, if
any, or if there be no Assistant Secretary, in the absence of the Secretary, an appointee of the
presiding officer, shall act as Secretary of the meeting.

(b)  Conduct of Meetings . The Board of Directors may adopt by resolution such rules and
regulations for the conduct of the meeting of stockholders as it shall deem appropriate. Except to
the extent inconsistent with any such rules and regulations as adopted by the Board of Directors,
the presiding officer shall have the right and authority to convene and to adjourn the meeting, to
prescribe such rules, regulations and procedures and to do all such acts as, in the judgment of
such presiding officer, are appropriate for the proper conduct of the meeting. Such rules,
regulations or procedures, whether adopted by the Board of Directors or prescribed by the presiding
officer, may include, but are not limited to, the following: (i) the establishment of an agenda or
order of business for the meeting; (ii) rules and procedures for maintaining order at the meeting
and the safety of those present; (iii) limitations on attendance at or participation in the meeting
to stockholders of record of the Corporation, their duly authorized and constituted proxies or such
other persons as the presiding officer shall determine; (iv) restrictions on entry to the meeting
after the time fixed for the commencement thereof; and (v) limitations on the time allotted to
questions or comments by participants. Meetings of stockholders shall not be required to be held
in accordance with the rules of parliamentary procedure.

Section 1.10.  Notice of Stockholder Business and Nominations .

(a)  Annual Meetings of Stockholders .

(i) Nominations of persons for election to the Board of Directors of the Corporation and the
proposal of business to be considered by the stockholders at an annual meeting of stockholders may
be made only (A) by or at the direction of the Board of Directors or the Chief Executive Officer,
or (B) by any stockholder of the Corporation who is entitled to vote at the meeting, who complies
with the notice procedures set forth in this Section 1.10(a) and who is a stockholder of record at
the time such notice is delivered to the Secretary of the Corporation.

(ii) For nominations or other business to be properly brought before an annual meeting by a
stockholder, pursuant to clause (B) of paragraph (a)(i) of this Section 1.10, the stockholder must
have given timely notice thereof in writing to the Secretary of the Corporation and any such other
business must otherwise be a proper matter for stockholder action. To be timely, a stockholder s
notice shall be delivered to the Secretary at the principal executive offices of the Corporation
not less than 120 calendar days prior to the first anniversary of the previous year s annual
meeting; provided, however, that in the event that no annual meeting was held in the previous year
or the date of the annual meeting was changed by more than 30 days from the anniversary date of the
previous

4 

year s annual meeting, notice by the stockholder must be so received by the later of 120
calendar days prior to such annual meeting or 10 calendar days following the date on which public
announcement of the date of the meeting is first made. In no event shall an adjournment or
postponement of an annual meeting (or the public announcement thereof) commence a new time period
(or extend any time period) for the giving of a stockholder s notice as described in this Section
1.01(a). Such stockholder s notice shall (x) be accompanied by a completed disclosure
questionnaire, the form of which shall be approved by the Directors from time to time and posted by
the Corporation on its website, and (y) set forth (A) as to each person whom the stockholder
proposes to nominate for election or reelection as a Director all information relating to such
person that is required to be disclosed in solicitations of proxies for election of Directors, or
is otherwise required, in each case pursuant to Section 14 of the Exchange Act and the rules and
regulations promulgated thereunder, including such person s written consent to being named in the
proxy statement as a nominee and to serving as a Director if elected; (B) as to any other business
that the stockholder proposes to bring before the meeting, a brief description of the business
desired to be brought before the meeting, the reasons for conducting such business at the meeting
and, in the event that such business includes a proposal to amend either the Certificate of
Incorporation or the By-Laws of the Corporation, the language of the proposed amendment; (C) any
material interest in such business of such stockholder and of any beneficial owner on whose behalf
the proposal is made and, in case of nominations, a description of all arrangements or
understandings between any stockholder and each nominee and any other persons (naming them)
pursuant to which the nominations are to be made by the stockholder; (D) satisfactory evidence that
each stockholder is a beneficial owner, or a representation that the stockholder is a holder of
record, of stock of the Corporation entitled to vote at such meeting and intends to appear in
person or by a qualified representative at the meeting to propose such business or nomination; (E)
if the stockholder intends to solicit proxies in support of such stockholder s business proposal or
nomination, a representation to that effect; and (F) as to such stockholder and each other person
with whom such stockholder is acting in concert or on whose behalf such stockholder is acting in
connection with such nomination or other business (each, a  Proponent ) , (1) the name and address
of such Proponent; and (2) the class and number of shares of the Corporation which are owned
beneficially and of record by such Proponent. If such stockholder does not appear or send a
qualified representative to present such business proposal or nomination at such annual meeting,
the Corporation need not present such proposal or nomination for a vote at such meeting,
notwithstanding that proxies in respect of such vote may have been received by the Corporation. The
presiding officer of any annual meeting of stockholders shall refuse to permit any business
proposed or nomination made by a stockholder to be brought before such annual meeting without
compliance with the foregoing procedures or if the stockholder solicits proxies in support of such
stockholder s business proposal or nomination without such stockholder having made the
representation required by clause (E) above.

5 

(b)  Special Meetings of Stockholders .

(i) Only such business as shall have been brought before the special meeting of the
stockholders pursuant to the Corporation s notice of meeting pursuant to Section 1.02 of these
By-Laws shall be conducted at such meeting.

(ii) In the event that Directors are to be elected at a special meeting of stockholders
pursuant to the Corporation s notice of meeting, nominations of persons for election to the Board
of Directors may be made at such special meeting of stockholders (1) by or at the direction of the
Board of Directors or (2) by any stockholder of the Corporation who is entitled to vote at the
meeting, who complies with the notice procedures set forth in this Section 1.10 and who is a
stockholder of record at the time such notice is delivered to the Secretary of the Corporation.
Nominations by stockholders of persons for election to the Board of Directors may be made at such
special meeting of stockholders if the stockholder has delivered notice containing the information
described in paragraph (a)(ii) of this Section 1.10, including the disclosure questionnaire
described in such paragraph (a)(ii), to the Secretary at the principal executive offices of the
Corporation by the later of 150 calendar days prior to such special meeting or 10 calendar days
following the date on which public announcement of the date of the special meeting and of the
nominees to be elected at such meeting is first made. In no event shall the adjournment or
postponement of a special meeting (or the public announcement thereof) commence a new time period
(or extend any time period) for the giving of a stockholder s notice as described above.

(c)  General .

(i) Only persons who are nominated in accordance with the procedures set forth in this Section
1.10 shall be eligible to serve as Directors and only such business shall be conducted at a meeting
of stockholders as shall have been brought before the meeting in accordance with the procedures set
forth in this Section 1.10. Except as otherwise provided by law, the Certificate of Incorporation
or these By-Laws, the presiding officer of the meeting shall have the power and duty to determine
whether a nomination or any business proposed to be brought before the meeting was made or proposed
in accordance with the procedures set forth in this Section 1.10 and, if any proposed nomination or
business is not in compliance with this Section 1.10, to declare that such defective proposal or
nomination shall be disregarded.

(ii) Notwithstanding the foregoing provisions of this Section 1.10, a stockholder shall also
comply with all applicable requirements of the Exchange Act and the rules and regulations
thereunder with respect to the matters set forth in this Section 1.10; provided, however, that any
references in these By-Laws to the Exchange Act or any section of thereof and the rules and
regulations thereunder are not intended to and shall not limit the requirements applicable to

6 

nominations or proposals as to any other business to be considered pursuant to Section 1.10.
Nothing in this Section 1.10 shall be deemed to affect any rights (a) of stockholders to request
inclusion of business proposals or nominations in the Corporation s proxy statement to the extent
required under Rule 14a-8 under the Exchange Act, or (b) of the holders of any class or series of
preferred stock to the extent provided under any applicable preferred stock Certificate of
Designation (as defined in the Certificate of Incorporation).

Section 1.11.  Inspectors of Elections .

(a) Prior to any meeting of the stockholders, the Board of Directors shall appoint one or more
persons to act as Inspectors of Elections, and may designate one or more alternate inspectors. If
no inspector or alternate is able to act, the person presiding at the meeting shall appoint one or
more inspectors to act at the meeting. Each inspector, before entering upon the discharge of the
duties of an inspector, shall take and sign an oath faithfully to execute the duties of inspector
with strict impartiality and according to the best of such inspector s ability. The inspector
shall:

(i) ascertain the number of shares outstanding and the voting power of each;

(ii) determine the shares represented at the meeting and the validity of proxies and ballots;

(iii) specify the information relied upon to determine the validity of electronic
transmissions in accordance with Section 1.08 hereof;

(iv) count all votes and ballots;

(v) determine and retain for a reasonable period a record of the disposition of any
challenges made to any determination by the inspectors;

(vi) certify such inspector s determination of the number of shares represented at the
meeting, and such inspector s count of all votes and ballots.

(b) The inspector may appoint or retain other persons or entities to assist in the performance of
the duties of inspector.

(c) When determining the shares represented and the validity of proxies and ballots, the inspector
shall be limited to an examination of the proxies, any envelopes submitted with those proxies, any
proxies provided in accordance with Section 1.08 of these By-Laws, ballots and the regular books
and records of the Corporation. The inspector may consider other reliable information for the
limited purpose of reconciling proxies and ballots submitted by or on behalf of banks, brokers or
their nominees or a similar person which represent more votes than

7 

the holder of a proxy is authorized by the record owner to cast or more votes than the stockholder
holds of record. If the inspector considers other reliable information as outlined in this
section, the inspector, at the time of certification pursuant to (a)(vi) of this Section 1.11,
shall specify the precise information considered, the person or persons from whom such information
was obtained, when this information was obtained, the means by which such information was obtained,
and the basis for the inspector s belief that such information is accurate and reliable.

Section 1.12.  Opening and Closing of Polls . The time for the opening and the closing of
the polls for the matters to be voted upon at a stockholder meeting shall be announced at the
meeting by the presiding officer. The inspector of the election shall be prohibited from accepting
any ballots, proxies or votes or any revocations thereof or changes thereto after the closing of
the polls, unless the Delaware Court of Chancery upon application by a stockholder shall determine
otherwise.

Section 1.13.  Confidential Voting .

(a) Proxies and ballots that identify the votes of specific stockholders shall be kept in
confidence by the inspectors of election unless

(i) there is an opposing solicitation with respect to the election or removal of Directors,

(ii) disclosure is required by applicable law,

(iii) a stockholder expressly requests or otherwise authorizes disclosure in relation to such
stockholder s vote, or

(iv) the Corporation concludes in good faith that a bona fide dispute exists as to the
authenticity of one or more proxies, ballots or votes, or as to the accuracy of any tabulation of
such proxies, ballots or votes.

(b) The inspectors of election and any authorized agents or other persons engaged in the receipt,
count and tabulation of proxies and ballots shall be advised of this By-Law and instructed to
comply herewith.

(c) The inspectors of election shall certify, to the best of their knowledge based on due inquiry,
that proxies and ballots have been kept in confidence as required by this Section 1.13.

Section 1.14.  No Stockholder Action by Written Consent . Any action required or permitted
to be taken by the stockholders of the Corporation must be effected at a duly called annual or
special meeting of the stockholders of the Corporation, and the ability of the stockholders to
consent in writing to the taking of any action is specifically denied.

8 

ARTICLE II 
BOARD OF DIRECTORS 

Section 2.01.  General Powers . Except as may otherwise be provided by law, by the
Certificate of Incorporation or by these By-Laws, the property, affairs and business of the
Corporation shall be managed by or under the direction of the Board of Directors and the Board of
Directors may exercise all the powers of the Corporation.

Section 2.02.  Number of Directors . Subject to the rights of the holders of any class or
series of preferred stock, if any, the number of Directors shall be fixed from time to time
exclusively pursuant to a resolution adopted by a majority of the entire Board of Directors, but
the Board of Directors shall at no time consist of fewer than three (3) Directors.

Section 2.03.  Director Elections .

(a)  Classified Board.  The Directors of the Corporation, subject to the rights of the
holders of shares of any class or series of preferred stock, shall be classified with respect to
the time for which they severally hold office, into three classes, as nearly equal in number as
possible, one class (  Class I  ) whose term expires at the 2000 annual meeting stockholders, another
class (  Class II  ) whose term expires at the 2001 annual meeting of stockholders, and another class
(  Class III  ) whose term expires at the 2002 annual meeting of stockholders, with each class to
hold office until its successors are elected and qualified. Except as otherwise provided in
Sections 2.12 and 2.13 of these By-Laws, at each annual meeting of stockholders of the Corporation,
and subject to the rights of the holders of shares of any class or series of preferred stock, the
successors of the class of directors whose term expires at that meeting shall be elected to hold
office for a term expiring at the annual meeting of stockholders held in the third year following
the year of their election.

(b)  Majority Voting Standard in Director Elections.  The Company has established a
majority voting standard in uncontested elections of Directors. In an uncontested election of
Directors (i.e., an election where the only nominees are those recommended by the board of
Directors), following certification of the shareholder vote, any nominee for election as Director
who received a greater number of votes  withheld  from his or her election than votes  for  his or
her election shall promptly tender his or her resignation to the Chairman of the Board. The
Chairman of the Board shall inform the Chair of the Governance Committee of such tender of
resignation and the Governance Committee shall promptly consider such resignation and recommend to
the board whether to accept the tendered resignation or reject it. In deciding upon its
recommendation, the Governance committee shall consider all relevant factors

9 

including, without limitation, the length of service and qualifications of the Director who has
tendered his or her resignation and the Director s contributions to the Corporation and the Board.

(i) The Board shall act on the Governance Committee s recommendation no later than 90 days
following certification of the shareholder vote. The Board shall consider the factors considered
by the Governance Committee and such additional information and factors the Board deems relevant.
The Corporation shall promptly publicly disclose the Board s decision and, if applicable, the
reasons for rejecting the tendered resignation, in a Report on Form 8-K filed with the Securities
Exchange Commission.

(ii) If a Director s resignation is accepted by the board, the Governance Committee shall
recommend to the board whether to fill the vacancy created by such resignation or to reduce the
size of the board. Any Director who tenders his or her resignation as provided above shall not
participate in the Governance Committee s or the Board s consideration of whether or not to accept
his or her tendered resignation.

(iii) If a majority of the members of the Governance Committee were required to tender their
resignations as described above, the Directors whom the Board has affirmatively determined to be
independent in accordance with applicable stock exchange listing standards and who were not
required to tender their resignations shall appoint a special committee of the Board to consider
the tendered resignations and whether to accept or reject them.

(iv) This provision shall be summarized or set forth in its entirety in each proxy statement
relating to an election of Directors of the Corporation.

Section 2.04.  Annual and Regular Meetings . The annual meeting of the Board of Directors
for the purpose of electing officers and for the transaction of such other business as may come
before the meeting shall be held as soon as practicable following adjournment of the annual meeting
of the stockholders. Notice of such annual meeting of the Board of Directors need not be given.
The Board of Directors from time to time may by resolution provide for the holding of regular
meetings and fix the place (which may be within or without the State of Delaware) and the date of
such meetings. Notice of regular meetings need not be given;  provided ,  however , that if the Board
of Directors shall fix or change the time or place of any regular meeting, notice of such action
shall be mailed promptly, or sent by telephone, including a voice messaging system or other system
or technology designed to record and communicate messages, facsimile, electronic mail or other
electronic means, to each Director who shall not have been present at the meeting at which such
action was taken, addressed or transmitted to him or her at such Director s usual place of
business, or shall be delivered or transmitted to him or her personally. Notice of such action
need not be given to any Director who attends the first regular meeting after such action is

10 

taken without protesting the lack of notice to him or her, prior to or at the commencement of such
meeting, or to any Director who submits a signed waiver of notice, whether before or after such
meeting.

Section 2.05.  Special Meetings; Notice . Special meetings of the Board of Directors shall
be held whenever called by the Chairman or the Chief Executive Officer (or, in the event of the
Chief Executive Officer s absence or disability, by the President or any Officer Director) or by
the Secretary pursuant to a resolution approved by a majority of the entire Board of Directors, at
such place (within or without the State of Delaware), date and hour as may be specified in the
respective notices or waivers of notice of such meetings. Special meetings of the Board of
Directors may be called on twenty-four (24) hours  notice, if notice is given to each Director
personally or by telephone, including a voice messaging system, or other system or technology
designed to record and communicate messages, telegraph, facsimile, electronic mail or other
electronic means, or on five (5) days  notice, if notice is mailed to each Director, addressed or
transmitted to him or her at such Director s usual place of business or other designated location.
Notice of any special meeting need not be given to any Director who attends such meeting without
protesting the lack of notice to him or her, prior to or at the commencement of such meeting, or to
any Director who submits a signed waiver of notice, whether before or after such meeting, and any
business may be transacted thereat.

Section 2.06.  Quorum; Voting . At all meetings of the Board of Directors, the presence of
a majority of the total number of Directors shall constitute a quorum for the transaction of
business. Except as otherwise required by law, the vote of a majority of the Directors present at
any meeting at which a quorum is present shall be the act of the Board of Directors.

Section 2.07.  Adjournment . A majority of the Directors present, whether or not a quorum
is present, may adjourn any meeting of the Board of Directors to another time or place. No notice
need be given of any adjourned meeting unless the time and place of the adjourned meeting are not
announced at the time of adjournment, in which case notice conforming to the requirements of
Section 2.05 of these By-Laws shall be given to each Director.

Section 2.08.  Action Without a Meeting . Any action required or permitted to be taken at
any meeting of the Board of Directors may be taken without a meeting if all members of the Board of
Directors consent thereto in writing, and such writing or writings are filed with the minutes of
proceedings of the Board of Directors.

Section 2.09.  Regulations; Manner of Acting . To the extent consistent with applicable
law, the Certificate of Incorporation and these By-Laws, the Board of Directors may adopt such
rules and regulations for the conduct of meetings of the Board of Directors and for the management
of the property, affairs and business of the Corporation as the Board of Directors may deem
appropriate.

11 

The Directors shall act only as a Board and the individual Directors shall have no power as such.

Section 2.10  Action by Telephonic Communications . Members of the Board of Directors may
participate in any meeting of the Board of Directors by means of conference telephone or similar
communications equipment by means of which all persons participating in the meeting can hear each
other, and participation in any meeting pursuant to this provision shall constitute presence in
person at such meeting.

Section 2.11.  Resignations . Any Director may resign at any time by delivering a written
notice of resignation, signed by such Director, to the Chairman or the Secretary. Unless otherwise
specified therein, and subject to Section 2.03(b) of these By-Laws, such resignation shall take
effect upon delivery.

Section 2.12.  Removal of Directors . Subject to the rights of the holders of any class or
series of preferred stock, if any, to elect additional Directors under specified circumstances, any
Director may be removed at any time, but only for cause, upon the affirmative vote of the holders
of a majority of the combined voting power of the then outstanding stock of the Corporation
entitled to vote generally in the election of Directors. Any vacancy in the Board of Directors
caused by any such removal may be filled at such meeting by the stockholders entitled to vote for
the election of the Director so removed. A Director filling any such vacancy shall be of the same
class as that of the Director whose removal created such vacancy and shall hold office until such
Director s successor shall have been elected and qualified or until such Director s earlier death,
resignation or removal. If such stockholders do not fill such vacancy at such meeting, such
vacancy may be filled in the manner provided in Section 2.13 of these By-Laws.

Section 2.13.  Vacancies and Newly Created Directorships . Subject to the rights of the
holders of any class or series of preferred stock, if any, to elect additional Directors under
specified circumstances, and except as provided in Section 2.12, if any vacancies shall occur in
the Board of Directors, by reason of death, resignation, removal or otherwise, or if the authorized
number of Directors shall be increased pursuant to Section 2.02 hereof, the Directors then in
office shall continue to act, and such vacancies and newly created directorships may be filled by a
majority of the Directors then in office, although less than a quorum. Any Director filling a
vacancy shall be of the same class as that of the Director whose death, resignation, removal or
other event caused the vacancy, and any Director filling a newly created directorship shall be of
the class specified by the Board of Directors at the time the newly created directorships were
created. A Director elected to fill a vacancy or a newly created directorship shall hold office
until such Director s successor has been elected and qualified or until such Director s earlier
death, resignation or removal.

12 

Section 2.14.  Compensation . The amount, if any, which each Director shall be entitled to
receive as compensation for such Director s services as such shall be fixed from time to time by
the Board of Directors.

Section 2.15.  Reliance on Accounts and Reports, etc . A Director, and any member of any
committee designated by the Board of Directors shall, in the performance of such Director s duties,
be fully protected in relying in good faith upon the records of the Corporation and upon
information, opinions, reports or statements presented to the Corporation by any of the
Corporation s officers or employees, or committees designated by the Board of Directors, or by any
other person as to the matters the member reasonably believes are within such other person s
professional or expert competence and who has been selected with reasonable care by or on behalf of
the Corporation.

ARTICLE III 
BOARD COMMITTEES 

Section 3.01.  How Constituted; Committee Powers . The Board of Directors shall designate
such Committees as may be required by applicable laws, rules, regulations and stock exchange
listing standards, including an Audit Committee, a Compensation Committee and a Governance
Committee, which Committees shall be constituted to comply with applicable requirements thereunder,
and may designate one or more additional Committees, including an Executive Committee. Each
Committee shall consist of one or more of the Directors of the Corporation. Each such Committee,
to the extent provided in any resolution or resolutions of the Board of Directors, shall have and
may exercise all the powers and authority of the Board of Directors in the management of the
business and affairs of the Corporation, and may authorize the seal of the Corporation to be
affixed to all papers which require it; provided, however, that no such Committee shall have the
power or authority in reference to the following matters: (a) approving or adopting, or
recommending to the stockholders, any action or matter expressly required by the General
Corporation Law of the State of Delaware to be submitted to stockholders for approval or (b)
adopting, amending or repealing any By-Law of the Corporation. Each Committee shall keep regular
minutes of its meetings.

Section 3.02.  Quorum and Manner of Acting . Except as may be otherwise provided in any
resolution of the Board of Directors, at all meetings of any Committee the presence of members
constituting a majority of the total membership of such Committee shall constitute a quorum for the
transaction of business. The act of the majority of the members present at any meeting at which a
quorum is present shall be the act of such Committee. Any action required or permitted to be taken
at any meeting of any such Committee may be taken without a meeting, if all members of such
Committee shall consent to such action in writing and such writing or writings are filed with the
minutes of the

13 

proceedings of the Committee. The members of any such Committee shall act only as a Committee, and
the individual members of such Committee shall have no power as such.

Section 3.03.  Action by Telephonic Communications . Members of any Committee designated by
the Board of Directors may participate in a meeting of such Committee by means of conference
telephone or similar communications equipment by means of which all persons participating in the
meeting can hear each other, and participation in a meeting pursuant to this provision shall
constitute presence in person at such meeting.

Section 3.04.  Resignations . Any member of any Committee may resign at any time by
delivering a written notice of resignation, signed by such member, to the Chairman or the
President. Unless otherwise specified therein, such resignation shall take effect upon delivery.

Section 3.05.  Removal . Any member of any Committee may be removed from the position as a
member of such Committee at any time, either for or without cause, by resolution adopted by a
majority of the Board of Directors.

Section 3.06.  Vacancies . If any vacancy shall occur in any Committee, by reason of death,
resignation, removal or otherwise, the remaining members shall continue to act, and any such
vacancy may be filled by the Board of Directors.

ARTICLE IV 
OFFICERS 

Section 4.01.  Number . The officers of the Corporation shall be elected by the Board of
Directors and shall be a Chairman, Chief Executive Officer, President, one or more Vice Presidents,
a Chief Financial Officer, a Secretary, a Treasurer, a Controller and a General Counsel. The Board
of Directors may appoint such other officers as it may deem appropriate, provided that officers of
the rank of Vice-President and below may be appointed by the Compensation Committee. Such other
officers shall exercise such powers and perform such duties as may be determined from time to time
by the Board of Directors, Chief Executive Officer or President. Any number of offices may be held
by the same person. No officer, other than the Chairman, need be a Director of the Corporation.

Section 4.02.  Election . Unless otherwise determined by the Board of Directors, the
officers of the Corporation shall be elected by the Board of Directors at the annual meeting of the
Board of Directors, and shall be elected to hold office until the next succeeding annual meeting of
the Board of Directors. In the event of the failure to elect officers at such meeting, officers
may be elected at any regular or special meeting of the Board of Directors. Officers of the rank
of Vice-President and below may be elected by the Compensation Committee. Each officer shall

14 

hold office until such officer s successor has been elected and qualified, or until such officer s
earlier death, resignation or removal.

Section 4.03.  Salaries . The salaries of all principal officers (as determined by the
Board of Directors) of the Corporation shall be fixed by the Board of Directors.

Section 4.04.  Removal and Resignation; Vacancies . Any officer may be removed for or
without cause at any time by the Board of Directors. Any officer may resign at any time by
delivering a written notice of resignation, signed by such officer, to the Board of Directors or
the Chief Executive Officer. Unless otherwise specified therein, such resignation shall take
effect upon delivery. Any vacancy occurring in any office of the Corporation by death,
resignation, removal or otherwise, shall be filled by the Board of Directors.

Section 4.05.  Authority and Duties of Officers . The officers of the Corporation shall
have such authority and shall exercise such powers and perform such duties as may be specified in
these By-Laws, except that in any event each officer shall exercise such powers and perform such
duties as may be required by law.

Section 4.06.  The Chairman . The Directors shall elect from among the members of the Board
of Directors a Chairman of the Board. The Chairman shall have such duties and powers as set forth
in these By-Laws or as shall otherwise be conferred upon the Chairman from time to time by the
Board of Directors. The Chairman shall preside over all meetings of the Stockholders and the Board
of Directors, other than meetings of the Board of Directors held in executive session, which shall
be presided over by the Lead Director.

Section 4.07.  The Chief Executive Officer . The Chief Executive Officer shall have general
control and supervision of the policies and operations of the Corporation. He or she shall manage
and administer the Corporation s business and affairs and shall also perform all duties and
exercise all powers usually pertaining to the office of a chief executive officer of a corporation.
The Chief Executive Officer shall perform such other duties and have such other powers as the
Board of Directors may from time to time prescribe.

Section 4.08.  The President . The President, subject to the authority of the Chief
Executive Officer (if the President is not the Chief Executive Officer), shall have primary
responsibility for, and authority with respect to, the management of the day-to-day business and
affairs of the Corporation, to the extent prescribed by the Chief Executive Officer. The President
shall perform such other duties and have such other powers as the Board of Directors or (if the
President is not the Chief Executive Officer) the Chief Executive Officer may from time to time
prescribe.

15 

Section 4.09.  Absence or Disability of the Chief Executive Officer . In the event of the
absence of the Chief Executive Officer or in the event of the Chief Executive Officer s inability
to act, the officer, if any, designated by resolution of the Board of Directors (or in the event
there is more than one such designated officer, then in the order of designation) shall perform the
duties of the Chief Executive Officer, and when so acting, shall have all the powers and be subject
to all the restrictions of the Chief Executive Officer.

Section 4.10.  Vice Presidents . The Vice Presidents shall have such designations and shall
perform such other duties and have such powers as the Board of Directors, the Chief Executive
Officer or the President may from time to time prescribe.

Section 4.11.  The Secretary . The Secretary shall keep or cause to be kept a record of all
the proceedings of the meetings of the stockholders and of the Board of Directors, and shall cause
all notices to be duly given in accordance with the provisions of these By-Laws and as required by
law. The Secretary shall be the custodian of the records and of the seal of the Corporation and
cause such seal (or a facsimile thereof) to be affixed to instruments when appropriate. The
Secretary shall perform, in general, all duties incident to the office of secretary and such other
duties as may be specified in these By-Laws or as may be assigned to him or her from time to time
by the Board of Directors, the Chief Executive Officer or the President.

Section 4.12.  The Chief Financial Officer . The Chief Financial Officer shall be the
principal financial officer of the Corporation and shall have responsibility for the financial
affairs of the Corporation. The Chief Financial Officer shall perform such other duties and
exercise such other powers as are normally incident to the office of chief financial officer and as
may be prescribed by the Board of Directors, the Chief Executive Officer or the President.

Section 4.13.  The Treasurer . The Treasurer shall have charge and supervision over and be
responsible for the moneys, securities, receipts and disbursements of the Corporation, and shall
keep or cause to be kept full and accurate records of all receipts of the Corporation, and shall
cause the moneys and other valuable effects of the Corporation to be deposited in the name and to
the credit of the Corporation. The Treasurer shall cause the moneys of the Corporation to be
disbursed by checks or drafts upon the authorized depositaries of the Corporation and cause to be
taken and preserved proper vouchers for all moneys disbursed. The Treasurer shall perform, in
general, all duties incident to the office of treasurer and such other duties as may be specified
in these By-Laws or as may be assigned to him or her from time to time by the Board of Directors,
the Chief Executive Officer, the President or the Chief Financial Officer.

16 

Section 4.14.  The Controller . The Controller shall keep or cause to be kept correct
records of the business and transactions of the Corporation. The Controller shall perform such
other duties and exercise such other powers as are normally incident to the office of controller
and as may be prescribed by the Board of Directors, the Chief Executive Officer or the President.

Section 4.15.  The General Counsel . The General Counsel shall have responsibility for the
legal affairs of the Corporation. The General Counsel shall perform such other duties and exercise
such other powers as are normally incident to the office of general counsel and as may be
prescribed by the Board of Directors, the Chief Executive Officer or the President.

Section 4.16.  Additional Officers . The Board of Directors from time to time may delegate
to any officer the power to appoint subordinate officers and to prescribe their respective rights,
terms of office, authorities and duties. Any such officer may remove any such subordinate officer
appointed by him or her, for or without cause, but such removal shall be without prejudice to the
contractual rights of such subordinate officer or agent, if any, with the Corporation.

Section 4.17.  Security . The Board of Directors may require any officer, agent or employee
of the Corporation to provide security for the faithful performance of such officer s, agent s or
employee s duties, in such amount and of such character as may be determined from time to time by
the Board of Directors.

ARTICLE V 
CAPITAL STOCK 

Section 5.01.  Certificates of Stock, Uncertificated Shares . The shares of the Corporation
may be either represented by certificates or uncertificated shares, provided that the Board of
Directors may provide by resolution or resolutions that some or all of any or all classes or series
of the stock of the Corporation shall be uncertificated shares. Any resolution of the Board of
Directors providing for uncertificated shares shall not apply to shares represented by a
certificate until such certificate is surrendered to the Corporation. Notwithstanding the adoption
of such resolution by the Board of Directors, every holder of stock represented by certificates
and, upon request, every holder of uncertificated shares shall be entitled to have a certificate
signed by, or in the name of, the Corporation, (i) by the Chief Executive Officer, the President or
a Vice President, and (ii) by the Chief Financial Officer, the Treasurer, an Assistant Treasurer,
the Secretary or an Assistant Secretary, representing the number of shares registered in
certificate form. Such certificate shall be in such form as the Board of Directors may determine,
to the extent consistent with applicable law, the Certificate of Incorporation and these By-Laws.

17 

Section 5.02.  Signatures; Facsimile . All of such signatures on the certificate referred
to in Section 5.01 of these By-Laws may be a facsimile, engraved or printed, to the extent
permitted by law. In case any officer, transfer agent or registrar who has signed, or whose
facsimile signature has been placed upon a certificate representing shares of the Corporation shall
have ceased to be such officer, transfer agent or registrar before such certificate is issued, it
may be issued by the Corporation with the same effect as if he or she were such officer, transfer
agent or registrar at the date of issue.

Section 5.03.  Lost, Stolen or Destroyed Certificates . The Board of Directors may direct
that a new certificate be issued in place of any certificate theretofore issued by the Corporation
alleged to have been lost, stolen or destroyed, upon delivery to the Board of Directors of an
affidavit of the owner or owners of such certificate, setting forth such allegation. The Board of
Directors may require the owner of such lost, stolen or destroyed certificate, or such owner s
legal representative, to give the Corporation a bond sufficient to indemnify it against any claim
that may be made against it on account of the alleged loss, theft or destruction of any such
certificate or the issuance of any such new certificate.

Section 5.04.  Transfer of Stock . Upon surrender to the Corporation or the transfer agent
of the Corporation of a certificate for shares, duly endorsed or accompanied by appropriate
evidence of succession, assignment or authority to transfer, the Corporation shall issue a new
certificate to the person entitled thereto, cancel the old certificate and record the transaction
upon its books. Within a reasonable time after the transfer of uncertificated stock, the
Corporation shall send to the registered owner thereof a written notice containing the information
required to be set forth or stated on certificates pursuant to Sections 151, 156, 202(a) or 218(a)
of the General Corporation Law of the State of Delaware. Subject to the provisions of the
Certificate of Incorporation and these By-Laws, the Board of Directors may prescribe such
additional rules and regulations as it may deem appropriate relating to the issue, transfer and
registration of shares of the Corporation.

Section 5.05.  Record Date .

(a)  Stockholders Meetings . In order to determine the stockholders entitled to notice of
or to vote at any meeting of stockholders or any adjournment thereof, the Board of Directors may
fix, in advance, a record date, which record date shall not precede the date on which the
resolution fixing the record date is adopted by the Board of Directors, and which shall not be more
than sixty (60) nor less than ten (10) days before the date of such meeting. A determination of
stockholders of record entitled to notice of or to vote at a meeting of stockholders shall apply to
any adjournment of the meeting;  provided ,  however , that the Board of Directors may fix a new record
date for the adjourned meeting. If no record date is fixed, the record date for determining
stockholders for any such purpose shall be the close of business on the day next preceding the day
on which notice of the

18 

meeting is given, or, if notice is waived, at the close of business on the day next preceding the
day on which the meeting is held.

(b)  Dividends and Other Distributions . In order that the Corporation may determine the
stockholders entitled to receive payment of any dividend or other distribution or allotment of any
rights of the stockholders entitled to exercise any rights in respect of any change, conversion or
exchange of stock, or for the purpose of any other lawful action, the Board of Directors may fix a
record date, which record date shall not precede the date upon which the resolution fixing the
record date is adopted, and which record date shall be not more than sixty (60) days prior to such
action. If no record date is fixed, the record date for determining stockholders for any such
purpose shall be at the close of business on the day on which the Board of Directors adopts the
resolution relating thereto.

Section 5.06.  Registered Stockholders . Prior to due surrender of a certificate for
registration of transfer, the Corporation may treat the registered owner as the person exclusively
entitled to receive dividends and other distributions, to vote, to receive notice and otherwise to
exercise all the rights and powers of the owner of the shares represented by such certificate, and
the Corporation shall not be bound to recognize any equitable or legal claim to or interest in such
shares on the part of any other person, whether or not the Corporation shall have notice of such
claim or interests. Whenever any transfer of shares shall be made for collateral security, and not
absolutely, it shall be so expressed in the entry of the transfer if, when the certificates are
presented to the Corporation for transfer or uncertificated shares are requested to be transferred,
both the transferor and transferee request the Corporation to do so.

Section 5.07.  Transfer Agent and Registrar . The Board of Directors may appoint one or
more transfer agents and one or more registrars, and may require all certificates representing
shares to bear the signature of any such transfer agents or registrars.

ARTICLE VI 
INDEMNIFICATION 

Section 6.01.  Nature of Indemnity . The Corporation shall indemnify any person who was or
is a party or is threatened to be made a party to any threatened, pending or completed action, suit
or proceeding (a   Proceeding  ), whether civil, criminal, administrative or investigative, by reason
of the fact that he or she is or was or has agreed to become a director or officer of the
Corporation, or is or was serving or has agreed to serve at the request of the Corporation as a
director or officer, of another corporation, partnership, joint venture, trust or other entity, or
by reason of any action alleged to have been taken or omitted in such capacity, against expenses
(including attorneys  fees), judgments, fines and amounts paid in settlement actually and
reasonably incurred by him or her or on his or her

19 

behalf in connection with such action, suit or proceeding and any appeal therefrom, if he or she
acted in good faith and in a manner he or she reasonably believed to be in or not opposed to the
best interests of the Corporation and, with respect to any criminal action or proceeding, had no
reasonable cause to believe that his or her conduct was unlawful; except that in the case of an
action or suit by or in the name of the Corporation to procure a judgment in its favor (1) such
indemnification shall be limited to expenses (including attorneys  fees) actually and reasonably
incurred by such person in the defense or settlement of such action or suit, and (2) no
indemnification shall be made in respect of any claim, issue or matter as to which such person
shall have been adjudged to be liable to the Corporation unless and only to the extent that the
Delaware Court of Chancery or the court in which such action or suit was brought shall determine
upon application that, despite the adjudication of liability but in view of all the circumstances
of the case, such person is fairly and reasonably entitled to indemnity for such expenses which the
Delaware Court of Chancery or such other court shall deem proper. Notwithstanding the foregoing,
but subject to Section 6.05 of these By-Laws, the Corporation shall not be obligated to indemnify a
director or officer of the Corporation in respect of a Proceeding (or such part thereof) instituted
by such director or officer, unless such Proceeding (or such part thereof) has been authorized by
the Board of Directors.

The termination of any action, suit or proceeding by judgment, order, settlement, conviction, or
upon a plea of  nolo contendere  or its equivalent, shall not, of itself, create a presumption that
the person did not act in good faith and in a manner which he or she reasonably believed to be in
or not opposed to the best interests of the Corporation, and, with respect to any criminal action
or proceeding, had reasonable cause to believe that his or her conduct was unlawful.

Section 6.02.  Determination that Indemnification is Proper . Unless ordered by a court, no
indemnification of a present or former director or officer of the Corporation under Section 6.01
hereof (unless ordered by a court) shall be made by the Corporation if a determination is made that
indemnification of the present or former director or officer is not proper in the circumstances
because he or she has not met the applicable standard of conduct set forth in Section 6.01 hereof.

Section 6.03.  Advance Payment of Expenses . Expenses (including attorneys  fees) incurred
by a director or officer in defending any civil, criminal, administrative or investigative action,
suit or proceeding shall be paid by the Corporation in advance of the final disposition of such
action, suit or proceeding upon receipt of an undertaking by or on behalf of the director or
officer to repay such amount with interest, as determined by the Corporation, if it shall
ultimately be determined that such person is not entitled to be indemnified by the Corporation as
authorized in this Article. Such expenses (including attorneys  fees) incurred by former directors
and officers may be so paid upon such terms and conditions, if any, as the Corporation deems
appropriate. The Board of Directors may authorize the Corporation s counsel to represent such
director or

20 

officer in any action, suit or proceeding, whether or not the Corporation is a party to such
action, suit or proceeding.

Section 6.04.  Procedure for Indemnification of Directors and Officers . Any
indemnification of a director or officer of the Corporation under Section 6.01, or advance of
costs, charges and expenses to a director or officer under Section 6.04 of these By-Laws, shall be
made promptly, and in any event within thirty (30) days, upon the written request of the director
or officer. If a determination by the Corporation that the director or officer is entitled to
indemnification pursuant to this Article VI is required, and the Corporation fails to respond
within sixty (60) days to a written request for indemnity, the Corporation shall be deemed to have
approved such request. If the Corporation denies a written request for indemnity or advancement of
expenses, in whole or in part, or if payment in full pursuant to such request is not made within
thirty (30) days, the right to indemnification or advances as granted by this Article VI shall be
enforceable by the director or officer in any court of competent jurisdiction. Such person s costs
and expenses incurred in connection with successfully establishing such person s right to
indemnification or advances, in whole or in part, in any such action shall also be indemnified by
the Corporation. It shall be a defense to any such action (other than an action brought to enforce
a claim for the advance of costs, charges and expenses under Section 6.03 of these By-Laws where
the required undertaking, if any, has been tendered to the Corporation) that the claimant has not
met the standard of conduct set forth in Section 6.01 of these By-Laws, but the burden of proving
such defense shall be on the Corporation. Neither the failure of the Corporation (including its
Board of Directors, its independent legal counsel, and its stockholders) to have made a
determination prior to the commencement of such action that indemnification of the claimant is
proper in the circumstances because he or she has met the applicable standard of conduct set forth
in Section 6.01 of these By-Laws, nor the fact that there has been an actual determination by the
Corporation (including its Board of Directors, its independent legal counsel, and its stockholders)
that the claimant has not met such applicable standard of conduct, shall be a defense to the action
or create a presumption that the claimant has not met the applicable standard of conduct.

Section 6.05.  Survival; Preservation of Other Rights . The foregoing indemnification and
advancement provisions shall be deemed to be a contract between the Corporation and each director
or officer who serves in any such capacity at any time while these provisions as well as the
relevant provisions of the General Corporation Law of the State of Delaware are in effect and any
repeal or modification thereof shall not affect any right or obligation then existing with respect
to any state of facts then or previously existing or any action, suit or proceeding previously or
thereafter brought or threatened based in whole or in part upon any such state of facts. Such a
 contract right  may not be modified retroactively without the consent of such director or officer.

21 

The indemnification and advancement provided by this Article VI shall not be deemed exclusive of
any other rights to which those indemnified may be entitled under any by-law, agreement, vote of
stockholders or disinterested Directors or otherwise, both as to action in such person s official
capacity and as to action in another capacity while holding such office, and, once an event has
occurred with respect to which a Director or Officer is or may be entitled to indemnification under
this Article, such entitlement shall continue as to a person who has ceased to be a director or
officer and shall inure to the benefit of the heirs, executors and administrators of such a person.

Section 6.06.  Insurance . The Corporation may purchase and maintain insurance on behalf of
any person who is or was or has agreed to become a director or officer of the Corporation, or is or
was serving at the request of the Corporation as a director or officer of another corporation,
partnership, joint venture, trust or other entity against any liability asserted against such
person and incurred by such person or on such person s behalf in any such capacity, or arising out
of such person s status as such, whether or not the Corporation would have the power to indemnify
him or her against such liability under the provisions of this Article VI;  provided  that such
insurance is available on acceptable terms, which determination shall be made by the Chief
Executive Officer.

Section 6.07.  Severability . If this Article VI or any portion hereof shall be invalidated
on any ground by any court of competent jurisdiction, then the Corporation shall nevertheless
indemnify each director or officer as to costs, charges and expenses (including attorneys  fees),
judgments, fines and amounts paid in settlement with respect to any action, suit or proceeding,
whether civil, criminal, administrative or investigative, including an action by or in the right of
the Corporation, to the fullest extent permitted by any applicable portion of this Article VI that
shall not have been invalidated and to the fullest extent permitted by applicable law.

ARTICLE VII 
OFFICES 

Section 7.01.  Registered Office . The registered office of the Corporation in the State of
Delaware shall be located at Corporation Trust Center, 1209 Orange Street in the City of
Wilmington, County of New Castle.

Section 7.02.  Other Offices . The Corporation may maintain offices or places of business
at such other locations within or without the State of Delaware as the Board of Directors may from
time to time determine or as the business of the Corporation may require.

22 

ARTICLE VIII 
GENERAL PROVISIONS 

Section 8.01.  Dividends . Subject to any applicable provisions of law and the Certificate
of Incorporation, dividends upon the shares of the Corporation may be declared by the Board of
Directors at any regular or special meeting of the Board of Directors and any such dividend may be
paid in cash, property or shares of the Corporation s capital stock.

A member of the Board of Directors, or a member of any committee designated by the Board of
Directors shall be fully protected in relying in good faith upon the records of the Corporation and
upon such information, opinions, reports or statements presented to the Corporation by any of its
officers or employees, or committees of the Board of Directors, or by any other person as to
matters the Director reasonably believes are within such other person s professional or expert
competence and who has been selected with reasonable care by or on behalf of the Corporation, as to
the value and amount of the assets, liabilities and/or net profits of the Corporation, or any other
facts pertinent to the existence and amount of surplus or other funds from which dividends might
properly be declared and paid.

Section 8.02.  Reserves . There may be set aside out of any funds of the Corporation
available for dividends such sum or sums as the Board of Directors from time to time, in its
absolute discretion, thinks proper as a reserve or reserves to meet contingencies, or for
equalizing dividends, or for repairing or maintaining any property of the Corporation or for such
other purpose as the Board of Directors shall think conducive to the interests of the Corporation,
and the Board of Directors may similarly modify or abolish any such reserve.

Section 8.03.  Execution of Instruments . The Chief Executive Officer, the President, any
Vice President, the Secretary, the Chief Financial Officer or the Treasurer may enter into any
contract or execute and deliver any instrument in the name and on behalf of the Corporation. The
Board of Directors or the Chief Executive Officer may authorize any other officer or agent to enter
into any contract or execute and deliver any instrument in the name and on behalf of the
Corporation. Any such authorization may be general or limited to specific contracts or
instruments.

Section 8.04.  Corporate Indebtedness . No loan shall be contracted on behalf of the
Corporation, and no evidence of indebtedness shall be issued in its name, unless authorized by the
Board of Directors, the Chief Executive Officer or the Chief Financial Officer. Such authorization
may be general or confined to specific instances. Loans so authorized may be effected at any time
for the Corporation from any bank, trust company or other institution, or from any firm,
corporation or individual. All bonds, debentures, notes and other obligations or evidences of
indebtedness of the Corporation issued for such loans shall be

23 

made, executed and delivered as the Board of Directors, the Chief Executive Officer or the Chief
Financial Officer shall authorize. When so authorized by the Board of Directors, the Chief
Executive Officer or the Chief Financial Officer, any part of or all the properties, including
contract rights, assets, business or good will of the Corporation, whether then owned or thereafter
acquired, may be mortgaged, pledged, hypothecated or conveyed or assigned in trust as security for
the payment of such bonds, debentures, notes and other obligations or evidences of indebtedness of
the Corporation, and of the interest thereon, by instruments executed and delivered in the name of
the Corporation.

Section 8.05.  Deposits . Any funds of the Corporation may be deposited from time to time
in such banks, trust companies or other depositaries as may be determined by the Board of
Directors, the Chief Executive Officer, the Treasurer or the Chief Financial Officer or by such
officers or agents as may be authorized by the Board of Directors or the Chief Executive Officer,
the Treasurer or the Chief Financial Officer to make such determination.

Section 8.06.  Checks . All checks or demands for money and notes of the Corporation shall
be signed by such officer or officers or such agent or agents of the Corporation, and in such
manner, as the Board of Directors or the Chief Executive Officer from time to time may determine.

Section 8.07.  Sale, Transfer, etc. of Securities . To the extent authorized by the Board
of Directors or by the Chief Executive Officer, the President, any Vice President, the Secretary,
the Chief Financial Officer or the Treasurer or any other officers designated by the Board of
Directors or the Chief Executive Officer may sell, transfer, endorse, and assign any shares of
stock, bonds or other securities owned by or held in the name of the Corporation, and may make,
execute and deliver in the name of the Corporation, under its corporate seal (if required), any
instruments that may be appropriate to effect any such sale, transfer, endorsement or assignment.

Section 8.08.  Voting as Stockholder . Unless otherwise determined by resolution of the
Board of Directors, the Chief Executive Officer, the President or any Vice President shall have
full power and authority on behalf of the Corporation to attend any meeting of stockholders of any
corporation in which the Corporation may hold stock, and to act, vote (or execute proxies to vote)
and exercise in person or by proxy all other rights, powers and privileges incident to the
ownership of such stock. Such officers acting on behalf of the Corporation shall have full power
and authority to execute any instrument expressing consent to or dissent from any action of any
such corporation without a meeting. The Board of Directors may by resolution from time to time
confer such power and authority upon any other person or persons.

Section 8.09.  Fiscal Year . The fiscal year of the Corporation shall commence on the first
day of January of each year (except for the Corporation s first fiscal year

24 

which shall commence on the date of incorporation) and shall terminate in each case on December 31.

Section 8.10.  Seal . The seal of the Corporation shall be circular in form and shall
contain the name of the Corporation, the year of its incorporation and the words  Corporate Seal 
and  Delaware . The form of such seal shall be subject to alteration by the Board of Directors.
The seal may be used by causing it or a facsimile thereof to be impressed, affixed or reproduced,
or may be used in any other lawful manner.

ARTICLE IX 
EMERGENCY BOARD OF DIRECTORS 

Section 9.01.  Emergency Board of Directors . Notwithstanding any different provision in
the Delaware General Corporation Law, the Certificate of Incorporation of the Corporation or these
By-Laws, in the event of any emergency (herein defined as (i) resulting from an attack on the
United States or on a locality in which the Corporation conducts business or customarily holds
meetings of its Board of Directors, (ii) any nuclear, enemy or terrorist attack, or (iii) the
existence of any other catastrophe, disaster or other similar emergency condition), as a result of
which emergency a quorum of the Board of Directors cannot readily be convened for action, this
By-Law provision shall apply. All the powers and duties vested in the Board of Directors shall
vest automatically in an Emergency Board of Directors, which shall consist of all members of the
Board of Directors who are readily available and capable of acting. The Emergency Board of
Directors shall use all reasonable efforts to promptly provide notice of the change in the status
of the Board of Directors to the Securities and Exchange Commission. This Emergency Board shall
have and may exercise all of the powers of the Board of Directors in the management of the business
and affairs of the Corporation. A meeting of the Emergency Board may be called by any Director or
any member of the most senior executive management committee of the Corporation (the  Executive
Group ). Notice of the time and place of the meeting shall be given by or on behalf of the person
calling the meeting to only such of the Directors as it may be feasible to reach at the time and by
such means as may be feasible at the time, including by telephone, personal delivery, facsimile or
email. Such notice shall be given at such time in advance of the meeting as circumstances permit
in the judgment of the person calling the meeting. Two members in attendance shall constitute a
quorum at any meeting of the Emergency Board. The Emergency Board shall continue to be vested with
the powers and duties of the Board of Directors until such time following the emergency as a quorum
of the original members of the Board of Directors prior to such emergency can readily be convened
for action.

25 

ARTICLE X 
AMENDMENT OF BY-LAWS 

Section 10.01.  Amendment . These By-Laws may be amended, altered or repealed:

(a) by resolution adopted by a majority of the Board of Directors at any special or regular
meeting of the Board of Directors if, in the case of such special meeting only, notice of such
amendment, alteration or repeal is contained in the notice or waiver of notice of such meeting; or

(b) at any regular or special meeting of the stockholders upon the affirmative vote of the holders
of three-fourths (  3  / 4 ) or more of the combined voting power of the outstanding shares of the
Corporation entitled to vote generally in the election of Directors if, in the case of such special
meeting only, notice of such amendment, alteration or repeal is contained in the notice or waiver
of notice of such meeting.

ARTICLE XI 
CONSTRUCTION 

Section 11.01.  Construction . In the event of any conflict between the provisions of these
By-Laws as in effect from time to time and the provisions of the Certificate of Incorporation of
the Corporation as in effect from time to time, the provisions of such Certificate of Incorporation
shall be controlling.

26 

</EX-3.6>

<EX-4.12>
 3
 y87657exv4w12.txt
 EX-4.12

EXHIBIT 4.12

                                 METLIFE, INC.,

                                   as Issuer

                                      and

                J.P. MORGAN TRUST COMPANY, NATIONAL ASSOCIATION,
                 (as successor to Bank One Trust Company, N.A.),

                                   as Trustee

                          -----------------------------

                         TWELFTH SUPPLEMENTAL INDENTURE

                            Dated as of June 23, 2005

                           SUPPLEMENT TO THE INDENTURE

                          Dated as of November 9, 2001

                          ----------------------------

                                 $1,000,000,000

                               5.00% SENIOR NOTES

                                DUE JUNE 15, 2015

TABLE OF CONTENTS(1)

                                    ARTICLE I

                      5.00% SENIOR NOTES DUE JUNE 15, 2015

ARTICLE II

                            MISCELLANEOUS PROVISIONS

SECTION 2.01.  Recitals by the Company...................................................   6
SECTION 2.02.  Ratification and Incorporation of Original Indenture......................   6
SECTION 2.03.  Executed in Counterparts..................................................   6

----------
(1) This Table of Contents does not constitute part of the Twelfth
Supplemental Indenture and shall not have any bearing on the
interpretation of any of its terms or provisions.

                                        i

THIS TWELFTH SUPPLEMENTAL INDENTURE is made as of the 23rd day of June,
2005, by and between METLIFE, INC., a Delaware corporation (the "Company"), and
J.P. Morgan Trust Company, National Association (as successor to Bank One Trust
Company, N.A.), a national banking corporation, as trustee (the "Trustee", which
term includes any successor trustee):

      WHEREAS, the Company has heretofore entered into an Indenture, dated as of
November 9, 2001 (the "Original Indenture") with the Trustee;

      WHEREAS, the Original Indenture is incorporated herein by this reference
and the Original Indenture, as supplemented by this Twelfth Supplemental
Indenture, is herein called the "Indenture";

      WHEREAS, under the Original Indenture, a new series of Securities may at
any time be established by the Board of Directors of the Company in accordance
with the provisions of the Original Indenture or the terms of such series may be
described by a supplemental indenture executed by the Company and the Trustee;

      WHEREAS, the Company proposes to create under the Indenture a new series
of Securities;

      WHEREAS, additional Securities of other series hereafter established,
except as may be limited in the Original Indenture as at the time supplemented
and modified, may be issued from time to time pursuant to the Original Indenture
as at the time supplemented and modified; and

      WHEREAS, all things necessary to make this Twelfth Supplemental Indenture
a valid agreement of the Company, in accordance with its terms, have been done.

      NOW THEREFORE, in consideration of the agreements and obligations set
forth herein and for other good and valuable consideration, the sufficiency of
which is hereby acknowledged, the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:

                                    ARTICLE I

                      5.00% Senior Notes Due June 15, 2015

SECTION 1.01. Establishment.

      (a) There is hereby established a new series of Securities to be issued
under the Indenture, to be designated as the Company's 5.00% Senior Notes due
June 15, 2015 (the "2015 Senior Notes").

      (b) There are to be authenticated and delivered 2015 Senior Notes,
initially limited in aggregate principal amount to $1,000,000,000, and no
further 2015 Senior Notes shall be authenticated and delivered except as
provided by Section 2.05, 2.07, 2.11, 3.03 or 9.04 of the Original Indenture;
provided, however, that the aggregate principal amount of the 2015 Senior Notes
may be increased in the future, without the consent of the holders of the 2015
Senior Notes, on the same terms and with the same CUSIP and ISIN numbers as the
2015 Senior Notes, except

for the issue price, Original Issue Date and first Interest Payment Date,
provided, that no Event of Default with respect to the 2015 Senior Notes shall
have occurred and be continuing. The 2015 Senior Notes shall be issued in fully
registered form.

      (c) The 2015 Senior Notes shall be issued in the form of one or more
Global Securities, in substantially the form set out in Exhibit A hereto. The
Depositary with respect to the 2015 Senior Notes shall be The Depository Trust
Company.

      (d) The form of the Trustee's Certificate of Authentication for the 2015
Senior Notes shall be substantially in the form set forth in Exhibit B hereto.

      (e) Each 2015 Senior Note shall be dated the date of authentication
thereof and shall bear interest from the Original Issue Date or from the most
recent Interest Payment Date to which interest has been paid or duly provided
for.

SECTION 1.02. Definitions.

      (a) The following defined terms used herein shall, unless the context
otherwise requires, have the meanings specified below. Capitalized terms used
herein for which no definition is provided herein shall have the meanings set
forth in the Original Indenture.

      "Interest Payment Date" means June 15 and December 15 of each year,
commencing December 15, 2005.

      "Original Issue Date" means June 23, 2005.

      "Regular Record Date" means, with respect to each Interest Payment Date,
the close of business on the preceding May 31 or November 30, as the case may be
(whether or not a Business Day).

      "Stated Maturity" means June 15, 2015.

SECTION 1.03. Payment of Principal and Interest

      (a) The principal of the 2015 Senior Notes shall be due at Stated
Maturity. The unpaid principal amount of the 2015 Senior Notes shall bear
interest at the rate of 5.00% per year until paid or duly provided for. Interest
shall be paid semi-annually in arrears on each Interest Payment Date, commencing
June 23, 2005, to the Persons in whose names the 2015 Senior Notes are
registered on the Regular Record Date for such Interest Payment Date, provided
that interest payable at the Stated Maturity of principal or upon redemption
will be paid to the Persons to whom principal is payable. Any such interest that
is not so punctually paid or duly provided for will forthwith cease to be
payable to the holders on such Regular Record Date and may be paid as provided
in Section 2.03 of the Original Indenture.

      (b) Payments of interest on the 2015 Senior Notes will include interest
accrued to but excluding the respective Interest Payment Dates. Interest
payments for the 2015 Senior Notes shall be computed and paid on the basis of a
360-day year consisting of twelve 30-day months.

                                        2

(c) In the event that any date on which interest is payable on the 2015
Senior Notes is not a Business Day, then payment of the interest payable on such
date will be made on the next succeeding day that is a Business Day (and without
any interest or other payment in respect of any such delay), except that, if
such Business Day is in the next succeeding calendar year, such payment shall be
made on the immediately preceding Business Day, in each case with the same force
and effect as if made on the date the payment was originally payable.

      (d) All payments of the principal of, and premium, if any, and interest on
the 2015 Senior Notes due at the Stated Maturity or upon redemption will be made
upon surrender of the 2015 Senior Notes at the Corporate Trust Office of the
Trustee.

      (e) The principal of and premium, if any, and interest on the 2015 Senior
Notes shall be paid in such coin or currency of the United States of America as
at the time of payment is legal tender for payment of public and private debts.
Payments of interest (including interest on any Interest Payment Date) will be
made, subject to such surrender where applicable, at the option of the Company,
(i) by check mailed to the address of the Person entitled thereto as such
address shall appear in the Security Register or (ii) by wire transfer at such
place and to such account at a banking institution in the United States as may
be designated in writing to the Trustee at least 15 days prior to the date for
payment by the Person entitled thereto.

SECTION 1.04. Denominations.

      The 2015 Senior Notes may be issued in denominations of $2,000, and whole
multiples of $1,000 in excess of $2,000.

SECTION 1.05. Global Securities.

      (a) The 2015 Senior Notes will be issued in the form of one or more Global
Securities registered in the name of the Depositary or its nominee. Except under
the limited circumstances described below, 2015 Senior Notes represented by
Global Securities will not be exchangeable for, and will not otherwise be
issuable as, 2015 Senior Notes in definitive form. The Global Securities
described above may not be transferred except by the Depositary to a nominee of
the Depositary or by a nominee of the Depositary to the Depositary or another
nominee of the Depositary or to a successor Depositary or its nominee.

      (b) Except as otherwise provided in this Twelfth Supplemental Indenture,
owners of beneficial interests in such Global Securities will not be considered
the holders thereof for any purpose under the Indenture, and no Global Security
representing a 2015 Senior Note shall be exchangeable, except for another Global
Security of like denomination and tenor to be registered in the name of the
Depositary or its nominee or to a successor Depositary or its nominee. The
rights of holders of such Global Securities shall be exercised only through the
Depositary.

      (c) A Global Security shall be exchangeable for 2015 Senior Notes
registered in the names of Persons other than the Depositary or its nominee only
as provided by Section 2.11(c) of the Original Indenture, subject to the
procedures of the Depositary. Any Global Security that is exchangeable pursuant
to the preceding sentence shall be exchangeable for 2015 Senior Notes registered
in such names as the Depositary shall direct.

                                        3

SECTION 1.06. Transfer.

      No service charge will be made for any registration of transfer or
exchange of 2015 Senior Notes, but payment will be required of a sum sufficient
to cover any tax or other governmental charge that may be imposed in connection
therewith.

SECTION 1.07. Defeasance.

      The provisions of Sections 13.02 and 13.03 of the Original Indenture will
apply to the 2015 Senior Notes.

SECTION 1.08. Redemption at the Option of the Company.

      (a)(i) If the Acquisition is not consummated or is terminated on or prior
   to September 30, 2005, the 2015 Senior Notes will be redeemable, at the
   option of the Company, in whole (but not in part) at any time on a date
   selected by the Company on or prior to November 7, 2005 (such date fixed for
   redemption, the "Trigger Redemption Date"), at a redemption price (the
   "Trigger Redemption Price") equal to the greater of (i) 100% of the principal
   amount of the 2015 Senior Notes to be redeemed and (ii) an amount equal to
   the sum of the present values of the remaining scheduled payments of
   principal and interest on the 2015 Senior Notes to be redeemed, not including
   any portion of the payments of interest accrued as of such Trigger Redemption
   Date, discounted to such Trigger Redemption Date on a semi-annual basis
   (assuming a 360-day year consisting of twelve 30-day months) at the Treasury
   Rate, plus 87 basis points; plus in each case, accrued and unpaid interest on
   the 2015 Senior Notes to be redeemed to, but excluding, such Trigger
   Redemption Date.

      (ii) The 2015 Senior Notes will be redeemable, at the option of the
   Company, in whole at any time or in part from time to time (any such date
   fixed for redemption, an "Optional Redemption Date"), at a redemption price
   (the "Optional Redemption Price") equal to the greater of (i) 100% of the
   principal amount of the 2015 Senior Notes to be redeemed and (ii) an amount
   equal to the sum of the present values of the remaining scheduled payments of
   principal and interest on the 2015 Senior Notes to be redeemed, not including
   any portion of the payments of interest accrued as of such Optional
   Redemption Date, discounted to such Optional Redemption Date on a semi-annual
   basis (assuming a 360-day year consisting of twelve 30-day months) at the
   Treasury Rate, plus 15 basis points; plus in each case, accrued and unpaid
   interest on the 2015 Senior Notes to be redeemed to, but excluding, such
   Optional Redemption Date.

      (iii) "Acquisition" means the acquisition by the Company of The Travelers
   Life Insurance Company, The Travelers Life & Annuity Reinsurance Company and
   Citicorp Life Insurance Company pursuant to the Acquisition Agreement by and
   between Citigroup Inc. and the Company, dated as of January 31, 2005, as
   amended.

      (iv) "Treasury Rate" means the rate per year equal to the semi-annual
   equivalent yield to maturity of the Comparable Treasury Issue, calculated
   using a price for the Comparable Treasury Issue (expressed as a percentage of
   its principal amount) equal to the Comparable Treasury Price for such Trigger
   Redemption Date or Optional Redemption Date, as the case

                                        4

may be. The Treasury Rate shall be calculated on the third Business Day
   preceding the Trigger Redemption Date or Optional Redemption Date, as the
   case may be.

      (v) "Comparable Treasury Issue" means the United States Treasury security
   selected by the Independent Investment Banker as having a maturity comparable
   to the remaining term of the 2015 Senior Notes to be redeemed that would be
   utilized, at the time of selection and in accordance with customary financial
   practice, in pricing new issues of corporate debt securities of comparable
   maturity to the remaining term of the 2015 Senior Notes.

      (vi) "Independent Investment Banker" means either Banc of America
   Securities LLC or Goldman, Sachs & Co., as selected by the Company, and any
   successor firm or, if such firm is unwilling or unable to select the
   Comparable Treasury Issue, an independent investment banking institution of
   national standing appointed by the Trustee after consultation with the
   Company.

      (vii) "Comparable Treasury Price" means with respect to any Trigger
   Redemption Date or Optional Redemption Date (1) the average of the Reference
   Treasury Dealer Quotations for such Trigger Redemption Date or Optional
   Redemption Date, as the case may be, after excluding the highest and lowest
   of such Reference Treasury Dealer Quotations, or (2) if the Trustee obtains
   fewer than five such Reference Treasury Dealer Quotations, the average of all
   such quotations.

      (viii) "Reference Treasury Dealer" means each of Banc of America
   Securities LLC, Goldman, Sachs & Co., Deutsche Bank Securities Inc. and two
   other primary U.S. government securities dealers (each a "Primary Treasury
   Dealer"), as specified by the Company; provided that (1) if any of Banc of
   America Securities LLC, Goldman, Sachs & Co., Deutsche Bank Securities Inc.
   or any Primary Treasury Dealer as specified by the Company shall cease to be
   a Primary Treasury Dealer, the Company will substitute therefor another
   Primary Treasury Dealer and (2) if the Company fails to select a substitute
   within a reasonable period of time, then the substitute will be a Primary
   Treasury Dealer selected by the Trustee after consultation with the Company.

      (ix) "Reference Treasury Dealer Quotations" means, with respect to the
   Reference Treasury Dealer and any Trigger Redemption Date or Optional
   Redemption Date, the average, as determined by the Trustee, of the bid and
   asked prices for the Comparable Treasury Issue (expressed, in each case, as a
   percentage of its principal amount) quoted in writing to the Trustee by such
   Reference Treasury Dealer at 5:00 p.m., New York City time, on the third
   Business Day preceding such Trigger Redemption Date or Optional Redemption
   Date, as the case may be.

   (b) Notwithstanding Section 3.02 of the Original Indenture, (i) the notice of
redemption with respect to the redemption referred to in Section 1.08(a)(i)
above, shall be mailed not less than 15 Business Days and not more than 20
Business Days before the Trigger Redemption Date and (ii) the notice of
redemption with respect to the redemption referred to in Section 1.08(a)(i) and
Section 1.08(a)(ii) above need not set forth the Optional Redemption Price or
the Trigger Redemption Price, as applicable, but only the manner of calculation
thereof. Notices of redemption of the 2015 Senior Notes shall state that payment
of the Optional Redemption Price or

                                       5

the Trigger Redemption Price, as applicable, of such 2015 Senior Notes to be
redeemed shall be made at the Corporate Trust Office of the Trustee and shall
specify the CUSIP No. and ISIN No. of such 2015 Senior Notes.

      (c) The Company shall notify the Trustee of the Optional Redemption Price
or Trigger Redemption Price, as applicable, with respect to the foregoing
redemption promptly after the calculation thereof. The Trustee shall not be
responsible for calculating said Optional Redemption Price or Trigger Redemption
Price.

      (d) If less than all of the 2015 Senior Notes are to be redeemed, the
Trustee shall select the 2015 Senior Notes or portions of the 2015 Senior Notes
to be redeemed by such method as the Trustee deems fair and appropriate. The
Trustee may select for redemption 2015 Senior Notes and portions of 2015 Senior
Notes in amounts of $2,000 and whole multiples of $1,000 in excess of $2,000.

      (e) The Company shall give the Trustee notice of a Trigger Redemption Date
promptly after the later of September 30, 2005 or the date that the Company
determines to redeem the 2015 Senior Notes pursuant to Section 1.08 (a)(i).
Prior to a redemption of the 2015 Senior Notes pursuant to Section 1.08(a)(i)
above, the Company shall deliver to the Trustee an Officers' Certificate and an
Opinion of Counsel to the effect that all conditions precedent provided for in
this Twelfth Supplemental Indenture to the right of the Company to redeem the
2015 Senior Notes pursuant to such Section 1.08(a)(i) have been complied with.

                                   ARTICLE II

                            Miscellaneous Provisions

SECTION 2.01. Recitals by the Company.

      The recitals in this Twelfth Supplemental Indenture are made by the
Company only and not by the Trustee, and all of the provisions contained in the
Original Indenture in respect of the rights, privileges, immunities, powers and
duties of the Trustee shall be applicable in respect of the 2015 Senior Notes
and of this Twelfth Supplemental Indenture as fully and with like effect as if
set forth herein in full.

SECTION 2.02. Ratification and Incorporation of Original Indenture.

      As supplemented hereby, the Original Indenture is in all respects ratified
and confirmed, and the Original Indenture and this Twelfth Supplemental
Indenture shall be read, taken and construed as one and the same instrument.

SECTION 2.03. Executed in Counterparts.

      This Twelfth Supplemental Indenture may be simultaneously executed in
several counterparts, each of which shall be deemed to be an original, and such
counterparts shall together constitute but one and the same instrument.

                                        6

IN WITNESS WHEREOF, each party hereto has caused this instrument to be
signed in its name and behalf by its duly authorized officers, all as of the day
and year first above written.

                                  METLIFE, INC.

                                  By: /s/ Anthony J. Williamson
                                      ------------------------------------------
                                      Name: Anthony J. Williamson
                                      Title: Senior Vice President and Treasurer

                                  J.P. MORGAN TRUST COMPANY,
                                     NATIONAL ASSOCIATION, as Trustee

                                  By: /s/ James Heaney
                                      ------------------------------------------
                                      Name: James Heaney
                                      Title: Vice President

                                        7

EXHIBIT A

                   FORM OF 5.00% SENIOR NOTE DUE JUNE 15, 2015

      THIS NOTE IS A GLOBAL SECURITY WITHIN THE MEANING OF THE ORIGINAL
INDENTURE HEREINAFTER REFERRED TO. UNLESS THIS CERTIFICATE IS PRESENTED BY AN
AUTHORIZED REPRESENTATIVE OF THE DEPOSITORY TRUST COMPANY ("DTC"), A NEW YORK
CORPORATION, TO METLIFE, INC. OR ITS AGENT FOR REGISTRATION OF TRANSFER,
EXCHANGE OR PAYMENT, AND ANY CERTIFICATE ISSUED IS REGISTERED IN THE NAME OF
CEDE & CO. OR IN SUCH OTHER NAME AS IS REQUESTED BY AN AUTHORIZED REPRESENTATIVE
OF DTC (AND ANY PAYMENT IS MADE TO CEDE & CO. OR TO SUCH OTHER ENTITY AS IS
REQUESTED BY AN AUTHORIZED REPRESENTATIVE OF DTC), ANY TRANSFER, PLEDGE OR OTHER
USE HEREOF FOR VALUE OR OTHERWISE BY OR TO ANY PERSON IS WRONGFUL INASMUCH AS
THE REGISTERED OWNER HEREOF, CEDE & CO., HAS AN INTEREST HEREIN.

      EXCEPT AS OTHERWISE PROVIDED IN SECTION 2.11 OF THE ORIGINAL INDENTURE,
THIS NOTE MAY BE TRANSFERRED IN WHOLE, BUT NOT IN PART, ONLY TO DTC, TO ANOTHER
NOMINEE OF DTC OR TO A SUCCESSOR DEPOSITARY OR TO A NOMINEE OF SUCH SUCCESSOR
DEPOSITARY.

                                       A-1

No.__                                                        CUSIP No.: 5156RAN8
                                                          ISIN No.: US59156RAN89

                                  METLIFE, INC.

                                5.00% Senior Note
                                Due June 15, 2015

Principal Amount:         $

Regular Record Date:      With respect to each Interest Payment Date, the close
                          of business on the preceding May 31 or November 30, as
                          the case may be (whether or not a Business Day)

Original Issue Date:      June 23, 2005

Stated Maturity:          June 15, 2015

Interest Payment Dates:   June 15 and December 15, commencing December 15, 2005

Interest Rate:            5.00% per year

Authorized Denomination:  $2,000 and whole multiples of $1,000 in excess of
                          $2,000

      MetLife, Inc., a Delaware corporation (the "Company," which term includes
any successor corporation under the Indenture referred to on the reverse
hereof), for value received, hereby promises to pay to _______________________,
or registered assigns, the principal sum of ________________ ($________________)
on the Stated Maturity shown above, and to pay interest thereon from the
Original Issue Date shown above, or from the most recent Interest Payment Date
to which interest has been paid or duly provided for, semi-annually in arrears
on each Interest Payment Date as specified above, commencing on December 15,
2005, and on the Stated Maturity at the rate per year shown above until the
principal hereof is paid or made available for payment and on any overdue
principal and on any overdue installment of interest at such rate to the extent
permitted by law. The interest so payable, and punctually paid or duly provided
for, on any Interest Payment Date (other than an Interest Payment Date that is
the Stated Maturity or a Trigger Redemption Date or an Optional Redemption Date)
will, as provided in the Indenture, be paid to the Person in whose name this
Note is registered at the close of business on the Regular Record Date as
specified above next preceding such Interest Payment Date, provided that any
interest payable at Stated Maturity or on a Trigger Redemption Date or an
Optional Redemption Date will be paid to the Person to whom principal is
payable. Any such interest that is not so punctually paid or duly provided for
will forthwith cease to be payable to the holders on such Regular Record Date
and may be paid as provided in Section 2.03 of the Original Indenture.

                                       A-2

Payments of interest on this Note will include interest accrued to but
excluding the respective Interest Payment Dates. Interest payments for this Note
shall be computed and paid on the basis of a 360-day year consisting of twelve
30-day months. In the event that any date on which interest is payable on this
Note is not a Business Day, then payment of the interest payable on such date
will be made on the next succeeding day that is a Business Day (and without any
interest or other payment in respect of any such delay), except that, if such
Business Day is in the next succeeding calendar year, payment shall be made on
the immediately preceding Business Day, in each case with the same force and
effect as if made on the date the payment was originally payable.

      Payment of the principal, premium, if any, and interest due at the Stated
Maturity or earlier redemption of this Note shall be made upon surrender of this
Note at the Corporate Trust Office of the Trustee. The principal of and premium,
if any, and interest on this Note shall be paid in such coin or currency of the
United States of America as at the time of payment is legal tender for payment
of public and private debts. Payment of interest (including interest on an
Interest Payment Date) will be made, subject to such surrender where applicable,
at the option of the Company, (i) by check mailed to the address of the Person
entitled thereto as such address shall appear in the Security Register or (ii)
by wire transfer at such place and to such account at a banking institution in
the United States as may be designated in writing to the Trustee at least 15
days prior to the date for payment by the Person entitled thereto.

      The 2015 Senior Notes (as defined on the reverse hereof) will be unsecured
obligations of the Company and will rank equally in right of payment with all of
the other unsecured, unsubordinated indebtedness of the Company from time to
time outstanding. The 2015 Senior Notes will rank senior to any subordinated
indebtedness of the Company.

      REFERENCE IS HEREBY MADE TO THE FURTHER PROVISIONS OF THIS NOTE SET FORTH
ON THE REVERSE HEREOF, WHICH FURTHER PROVISIONS SHALL FOR ALL PURPOSES HAVE THE
SAME EFFECT AS IF SET FORTH AT THIS PLACE.

      Unless the certificate of authentication hereon has been executed by the
Trustee by manual signature, this Note shall not be entitled to any benefit
under the Indenture or be valid or obligatory for any purpose.

                                       A-3

IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the Company has caused this instrument to be duly
executed under its corporate seal.

                                              METLIFE, INC.

                                              By: ______________________________
                                                  Name:
                                                  Title:

Attest:

__________________________
Name:
Title:

                             [Seal of MetLife, Inc.]

                                              Dated:

                                       A-4

(Reverse Side of Note)

   1. This Note is one of a duly authorized issue of senior notes of the Company
(the "Securities") issued and issuable in one or more series under an Indenture
dated as of November 9, 2001 (the "Original Indenture"), as supplemented by the
Twelfth Supplemental Indenture, dated as of June 23, 2005 (the "Twelfth
Supplemental Indenture," and together with the Original Indenture, the
"Indenture"), between the Company and J.P. Morgan Trust Company, National
Association (as successor to Bank One Trust Company, N.A.), as Trustee (the
"Trustee," which term includes any successor trustee under the Indenture), to
which Indenture and all indentures incidental thereto reference is hereby made
for a statement of the respective rights, limitations of rights, duties and
immunities thereunder of the Company, the Trustee and the holders of the
Securities issued thereunder and of the terms upon which said Securities are,
and are to be, authenticated and delivered. This Note is one of the series
designated on the face hereof as 5.00% Senior Notes due June 15 2015 (the "2015
Senior Notes"), initially limited in aggregate principal amount to
$1,000,000,000; provided, however, that (subject to the provisions of the
Twelfth Supplemental Indenture) the aggregate principal amount of the 2015
Senior Notes may be increased in the future, without the consent of the holders
of the 2015 Senior Notes, on the same terms and with the same CUSIP and ISIN
numbers as the 2015 Senior Notes. Capitalized terms used herein for which no
definition is provided herein shall have the meanings set forth in the
Indenture.

   2. This Note is exchangeable in whole or from time to time in part for 2015
Senior Notes in definitive registered form only as provided herein and in the
Indenture. If (i) at any time the Depositary notifies the Company that it is
unwilling or unable to continue as Depositary for this Note or if at any time
the Depositary shall no longer be registered or in good standing under the
Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, or other applicable statute or
regulation, and the Company does not appoint a successor Depositary within 90
days after the Company receives such notice or becomes aware of such condition,
as the case may be, or (ii) the Company in its sole discretion determines that
this Note shall be exchangeable for 2015 Senior Notes in definitive registered
form and executes and delivers to the Security Registrar a written order of the
Company providing that this Note shall be so exchangeable, this Note (subject to
the procedures of the Depositary) shall be exchangeable for 2015 Senior Notes in
definitive registered form, provided that the definitive 2015 Senior Notes so
issued in exchange for this Note shall be in denominations of $2,000 and any
whole multiples of $1,000 in excess of $2,000, without coupons, and be of like
aggregate principal amount and tenor as the portion of this Note to be
exchanged. Except as provided above, owners of beneficial interests in this Note
will not be entitled to have 2015 Senior Notes registered in their names, will
not receive or be entitled to physical delivery of 2015 Senior Notes in
definitive registered form and will not be considered the holders thereof for
any purpose under the Indenture. Neither the Company, the Trustee, any Paying
Agent nor the Security Registrar shall have any responsibility or liability for
any aspect of records relating to or payments made on account of beneficial
ownership interests in this Note, or for maintaining, supervising or reviewing
any records relating to such beneficial ownership interests.

   3. If an Event of Default with respect to the 2015 Senior Notes shall occur
and be continuing, the principal of the 2015 Senior Notes may be declared due
and payable in the manner, with the effect and subject to the conditions
provided in the Indenture.

                                       A-5

4. The Indenture permits, with certain exceptions as therein provided, the
amendment thereof and the modification of the rights and obligations of the
Company and the rights of the holders of the Securities under the Indenture at
any time by the Company and the Trustee with the consent of the holders of not
less than a majority in aggregate principal amount of the Securities at the time
Outstanding of each series to be affected. The Indenture also contains
provisions permitting the holders of specified percentages in principal amount
of the Securities of each series at the time Outstanding, on behalf of the
holders of all Securities of such series, to waive compliance by the Company
with certain provisions of the Indenture and certain past defaults under the
Indenture and their consequences. Any such consent or waiver by the holder of
this Note shall be conclusive and binding upon such holder and upon all future
holders of this Note and of any 2015 Senior Note issued upon the registration of
transfer hereof or in exchange hereof or in lieu hereof, whether or not notation
of such consent or waiver is made upon this Note.

   5. The Indenture contains provisions for defeasance at any time of (a) the
entire indebtedness of the Company pursuant to this Note and (b) restrictive
covenants and the related Events of Default, upon compliance by the Company with
certain conditions set forth therein, which provisions apply to this Note.

   6. (a) If the Acquisition is not consummated, or is terminated, on or prior
to September 30, 2005, the 2015 Senior Notes will be redeemable, at the option
of the Company, in whole (but not in part) at any time on a date selected by the
Company on or prior to November 7, 2005 (such date fixed for redemption, the
"Trigger Redemption Date"), at a redemption price (the "Trigger Redemption
Price") equal to the greater of (i) 100% of the principal amount of the 2015
Senior Notes to be redeemed and (ii) an amount equal to the sum of the present
values of the remaining scheduled payments of principal and interest on the 2015
Senior Notes to be redeemed, not including any portion of the payments of
interest accrued as of such Trigger Redemption Date, discounted to such Trigger
Redemption Date on a semi-annual basis (assuming a 360-day year consisting of
twelve 30-day months) at the Treasury Rate, plus 87 basis points; plus in each
case, accrued and unpaid interest on the 2015 Senior Notes to be redeemed to,
but excluding, such Trigger Redemption Date.

      (b) The 2015 Senior Notes will be redeemable, at the option of the
Company, in whole at any time or in part from time to time (any such date fixed
for redemption, an "Optional Redemption Date"), at a redemption price (the
"Optional Redemption Price") equal to the greater of (i) 100% of the principal
amount of the 2015 Senior Notes to be redeemed and (ii) an amount equal to the
sum of the present values of the remaining scheduled payments of principal and
interest on the 2015 Senior Notes to be redeemed, not including any portion of
the payments of interest accrued as of such Optional Redemption Date, discounted
to such Optional Redemption Date on a semi-annual basis (assuming a 360-day year
consisting of twelve 30-day months) at the Treasury Rate, plus 15 basis points;
plus in each case, accrued and unpaid interest on the 2015 Senior Notes to be
redeemed to, but excluding, such Optional Redemption Date.

      "Acquisition" means the acquisition by the Company of The Travelers Life
Insurance Company, The Travelers Life & Annuity Reinsurance Company and Citicorp
Life Insurance Company pursuant to the Acquisition Agreement by and between
Citigroup Inc. and the Company, dated as of January 31, 2005, as amended.

                                       A-6

"Treasury Rate" means the rate per year equal to the semi-annual
equivalent yield to maturity of the Comparable Treasury Issue, calculated using
a price for the Comparable Treasury Issue (expressed as a percentage of its
principal amount) equal to the Comparable Treasury Price for such Trigger
Redemption Date or Optional Redemption Date, as the case may be. The Treasury
Rate shall be calculated on the third Business Day preceding the Trigger
Redemption Date or Optional Redemption Date, as the case may be.

      "Comparable Treasury Issue" means the United States Treasury security
selected by the Independent Investment Banker as having a maturity comparable to
the remaining term of the 2015 Senior Notes to be redeemed that would be
utilized, at the time of selection and in accordance with customary financial
practice, in pricing new issues of corporate debt securities of comparable
maturity to the remaining term of the 2015 Senior Notes.

      "Independent Investment Banker" means either of Banc of America Securities
LLC or Goldman, Sachs & Co., as selected by the Company, and any successor firm
or, if such firm is unwilling or unable to select the Comparable Treasury Issue,
an independent investment banking institution of national standing appointed by
the Trustee after consultation with the Company.

      "Comparable Treasury Price" means with respect to any Trigger Redemption
Date or Optional Redemption Date (1) the average of the Reference Treasury
Dealer Quotations for such Trigger Redemption Date or Optional Redemption Date,
as the case may be, after excluding the highest and lowest of such Reference
Treasury Dealer Quotations, or (2) if the Trustee obtains fewer than five such
Reference Treasury Dealer Quotations, the average of all such quotations.

      "Reference Treasury Dealer" means each of Banc of America Securities LLC,
Goldman, Sachs & Co., Deutsche Bank Securities Inc. and two other primary U.S.
government securities dealers (each a "Primary Treasury Dealer"), as specified
by the Company; provided that (1) if any of Banc of America Securities LLC,
Goldman, Sachs & Co., Deutsche Bank Securities Inc. or any Primary Treasury
Dealer as specified by the Company shall cease to be a Primary Treasury Dealer,
the Company will substitute therefor another Primary Treasury Dealer and (2) if
the Company fails to select a substitute within a reasonable period of time,
then the substitute will be a Primary Treasury Dealer selected by the Trustee
after consultation with the Company.

      "Reference Treasury Dealer Quotations" means, with respect to the
Reference Treasury Dealer and any Trigger Redemption Date or Optional Redemption
Date, the average, as determined by the Trustee, of the bid and asked prices for
the Comparable Treasury Issue (expressed, in each case, as a percentage of its
principal amount) quoted in writing to the Trustee by such Reference Treasury
Dealer at 5:00 p.m., New York City time, on the third Business Day preceding
such Trigger Redemption Date or Optional Redemption Date, as the case may be.

      (c) Notwithstanding Section 3.02 of the Original Indenture, (i) the notice
of redemption with respect to the redemption referred to in Section 6(a) above,
shall be mailed not less than 15 Business Days and not more than 20 Business
Days before the Trigger Redemption Date and (ii) the notice of redemption with
respect to the redemption referred to in Section 6(a) and Section 6(b) above
need not set forth the Optional Redemption Price or the Trigger Redemption
Price, as applicable, but only the manner of calculation thereof. Notices of
redemption of the 2015 Senior Notes shall state that payment of the Optional
Redemption Price or the Trigger Redemption Price, as applicable, of such

                                       A-7

2015 Senior Notes to be redeemed shall be made at the Corporate Trust Office of
the Trustee and shall specify the CUSIP No. and ISIN No. of such 2015 Senior
Notes.

      (d) The Company shall notify the Trustee of the Optional Redemption Price
or Trigger Redemption Price, as applicable, with respect to the foregoing
redemption promptly after the calculation thereof. The Trustee shall not be
responsible for calculating said Optional Redemption Price or Trigger Redemption
Price.

      (e) If less than all of the 2015 Senior Notes are to be redeemed, the
Trustee will select the 2015 Senior Notes or portions of 2015 Senior Notes to be
redeemed by such method as the Trustee deems fair and appropriate. The Trustee
may select for redemption 2015 Senior Notes and portions of 2015 Senior Notes in
amounts of $2,000 and whole multiples of $1,000 in excess of $2,000.

   7. No reference herein to the Indenture and no provision of this Note or of
the Indenture shall alter or impair the obligation of the Company, which is
absolute and unconditional, to pay the principal of, and premium, if any, and
interest on this Note at the time, place and rate, and in the coin or currency,
herein prescribed.

   8. (a) As provided in the Indenture and subject to certain limitations
therein set forth, the transfer of this Note is registrable in the Security
Register, upon surrender of this Note for registration of transfer at the office
or agency of the Company for such purpose, duly endorsed by, or accompanied by a
written instrument of transfer in form satisfactory to the Company or the
Security Registrar and duly executed by, the holder hereof or his attorney duly
authorized in writing, and thereupon one or more new 2015 Senior Notes, of
authorized denominations and of like tenor and for the same aggregate principal
amount, will be issued to the designated transferee or transferees. No service
charge shall be made for any such registration of transfer, but the Company will
require payment of a sum sufficient to cover any tax or other governmental
charge payable in connection therewith.

      (b) Prior to due presentment of this Note for registration of transfer,
the Company, the Trustee, any Paying Agent and the Security Registrar of the
Company or the Trustee may deem and treat the Person in whose name this Note is
registered as the absolute owner hereof for all purposes, whether or not this
Note be overdue and notwithstanding any notice of ownership or writing thereon
made by anyone other than the Security Registrar, and neither the Company nor
the Trustee nor any Paying Agent nor the Security Registrar shall be affected by
notice to the contrary. Except as provided in Section 1.03(a) of the Twelfth
Supplemental Indenture, all payments of the principal of and premium, if any,
and interest on this Note made to or upon the order of the registered holder
hereof shall, to the extent of the amount or amounts so paid, effectually
satisfy and discharge liability for moneys payable on this Note.

      (c) The 2015 Senior Notes are issuable only in registered form without
coupons in denominations of $2,000 and whole multiples of $1,000 in excess of
$2,000. As provided in the Indenture and subject to certain limitations therein
set forth, 2015 Senior Notes are exchangeable for a like aggregate principal
amount of 2015 Senior Notes of a different authorized denomination, as requested
by the holder surrendering the same upon surrender of the 2015 Senior Note or
2015 Senior Notes to be exchanged at the office or agency of the Company.

                                       A-8

9. No recourse shall be had for payment of the principal of, premium, if any,
or interest on this Note, or for any claim based hereon, or otherwise in respect
hereof, or based on or in respect of the Indenture, against any incorporator,
stockholder, officer or director, past, present or future, as such, of the
Company or of any predecessor or successor corporation, whether by virtue of any
constitution, statute or rule of law, or by the enforcement of any assessment or
penalty or otherwise, all such liability being, by the acceptance hereof and as
part of the consideration for the issuance hereof, expressly waived and
released.

   10. Unless the certificate of authentication hereon has been executed by the
Trustee by manual signature, this Note shall not be entitled to any benefit
under the Indenture or be valid or obligatory for any purpose.

   11. This Note shall be governed by, and construed in accordance with, the
internal laws of the State of New York.

                                       A-9

ABBREVIATIONS

      The following abbreviations, when used in the inscription on the face of
this instrument, shall be construed as though they were written out in full
according to applicable laws or regulations:

TEN COM -   as tenants in common           UNIF GIFT MIN ACT - Custodian under
                                           Uniform Gift to Minors Act

                                           _____________________________________
                                           (State)

TEN ENT -   as tenants by the entireties

JT TEN -    as joint tenants with right
            of survivorship and not as
            tenants in common

    Additional abbreviations may also be used though not on the above list.

FOR VALUE RECEIVED, the undersigned hereby sell(s) and transfer(s) unto

PLEASE PRINT OR TYPEWRITE NAME AND ADDRESS, INCLUDING POSTAL ZIP CODE
OF ASSIGNEE

________________________________________________________________________________

________________________________________________________________________________

________________________________________________________________________________
(please insert Social Security or other identifying number of assignee)

the within Note and all rights thereunder, hereby irrevocably constituting and
appointing

________________________________________________________________________________

________________________________________________________________________________

agent to transfer said Note on the books of the Company, with full power of
substitution in the premises.

Dated:______________                          __________________________________

                                              NOTICE: The signature to this
                                              assignment must correspond with
                                              the name as written upon the face
                                              of the within instrument in every
                                              particular without alteration or
                                              enlargement, or any change
                                              whatsoever.

                                       A-10

EXHIBIT B
                          CERTIFICATE OF AUTHENTICATION

      This is one of the 5.00% Senior Notes due June 15, 2015 referred to in the
within-mentioned Indenture.

                                             J.P.MORGAN TRUST COMPANY,
                                                NATIONAL ASSOCIATION, as Trustee

                                             By:________________________________
                                                Authorized Officer

                                       B-1

</EX-4.12>

<EX-4.13>
 4
 y87657exv4w13.txt
 EX-4.13

EXHIBIT 4.13

                                 METLIFE, INC.,

                                   as Issuer

                                      and

                J.P. MORGAN TRUST COMPANY, NATIONAL ASSOCIATION,
                 (as successor to Bank One Trust Company, N.A.),

                                   as Trustee

                          -----------------------------

                        THIRTEENTH SUPPLEMENTAL INDENTURE

                            Dated as of June 23, 2005

                           SUPPLEMENT TO THE INDENTURE

                          Dated as of November 9, 2001

                          ----------------------------

                                 $1,000,000,000

                               5.70% SENIOR NOTES

                                DUE JUNE 15, 2035

TABLE OF CONTENTS(1)

                                    ARTICLE I

                      5.70% SENIOR NOTES DUE JUNE 15, 2035

----------
(1) This Table of Contents does not constitute part of the Thirteenth
Supplemental Indenture and shall not have any bearing on the
interpretation of any of its terms or provisions.

                                        i

THIS THIRTEENTH SUPPLEMENTAL INDENTURE is made as of the 23rd day of June,
2005, by and between METLIFE, INC., a Delaware corporation (the "Company"), and
J.P. Morgan Trust Company, National Association (as successor to Bank One Trust
Company, N.A.), a national banking corporation, as trustee (the "Trustee", which
term includes any successor trustee):

      WHEREAS, the Company has heretofore entered into an Indenture, dated as of
November 9, 2001 (the "Original Indenture") with the Trustee;

      WHEREAS, the Original Indenture is incorporated herein by this reference
and the Original Indenture, as supplemented by this Thirteenth Supplemental
Indenture, is herein called the "Indenture";

      WHEREAS, under the Original Indenture, a new series of Securities may at
any time be established by the Board of Directors of the Company in accordance
with the provisions of the Original Indenture or the terms of such series may be
described by a supplemental indenture executed by the Company and the Trustee;

      WHEREAS, the Company proposes to create under the Indenture a new series
of Securities;

      WHEREAS, additional Securities of other series hereafter established,
except as may be limited in the Original Indenture as at the time supplemented
and modified, may be issued from time to time pursuant to the Original Indenture
as at the time supplemented and modified; and

      WHEREAS, all things necessary to make this Thirteenth Supplemental
Indenture a valid agreement of the Company, in accordance with its terms, have
been done.

      NOW THEREFORE, in consideration of the agreements and obligations set
forth herein and for other good and valuable consideration, the sufficiency of
which is hereby acknowledged, the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:

                                    ARTICLE I

                      5.70% Senior Notes Due June 15, 2035

SECTION 1.01. Establishment.

      (a) There is hereby established a new series of Securities to be issued
under the Indenture, to be designated as the Company's 5.70% Senior Notes due
June 15, 2035 (the "2035 Senior Notes").

      (b) There are to be authenticated and delivered 2035 Senior Notes,
initially limited in aggregate principal amount to $1,000,000,000, and no
further 2035 Senior Notes shall be authenticated and delivered except as
provided by Section 2.05, 2.07, 2.11, 3.03 or 9.04 of the Original Indenture;
provided, however, that the aggregate principal amount of the 2035 Senior Notes
may be increased in the future, without the consent of the holders of the 2035
Senior Notes, on the same terms and with the same CUSIP and ISIN numbers as the
2035 Senior Notes, except

for the issue price, Original Issue Date and first Interest Payment Date,
provided, that no Event of Default with respect to the 2035 Senior Notes shall
have occurred and be continuing. The 2035 Senior Notes shall be issued in fully
registered form.

      (c) The 2035 Senior Notes shall be issued in the form of one or more
Global Securities, in substantially the form set out in Exhibit A hereto. The
Depositary with respect to the 2035 Senior Notes shall be The Depository Trust
Company.

      (d) The form of the Trustee's Certificate of Authentication for the 2035
Senior Notes shall be substantially in the form set forth in Exhibit B hereto.

      (e) Each 2035 Senior Note shall be dated the date of authentication
thereof and shall bear interest from the Original Issue Date or from the most
recent Interest Payment Date to which interest has been paid or duly provided
for.

SECTION 1.02. Definitions.

      (a) The following defined terms used herein shall, unless the context
otherwise requires, have the meanings specified below. Capitalized terms used
herein for which no definition is provided herein shall have the meanings set
forth in the Original Indenture.

      "Interest Payment Date" means June 15 and December 15 of each year,
commencing December 15, 2005.

      "Original Issue Date" means June 23, 2005.

      "Regular Record Date" means, with respect to each Interest Payment Date,
the close of business on the preceding May 31 or November 30, as the case may be
(whether or not a Business Day).

      "Stated Maturity" means June 15, 2035.

SECTION 1.03. Payment of Principal and Interest

      (a) The principal of the 2035 Senior Notes shall be due at Stated
Maturity. The unpaid principal amount of the 2035 Senior Notes shall bear
interest at the rate of 5.70% per year until paid or duly provided for. Interest
shall be paid semi-annually in arrears on each Interest Payment Date, commencing
June 23, 2005, to the Persons in whose names the 2035 Senior Notes are
registered on the Regular Record Date for such Interest Payment Date, provided
that interest payable at the Stated Maturity of principal or upon redemption
will be paid to the Persons to whom principal is payable. Any such interest that
is not so punctually paid or duly provided for will forthwith cease to be
payable to the holders on such Regular Record Date and may be paid as provided
in Section 2.03 of the Original Indenture.

      (b) Payments of interest on the 2035 Senior Notes will include interest
accrued to but excluding the respective Interest Payment Dates. Interest
payments for the 2035 Senior Notes shall be computed and paid on the basis of a
360-day year consisting of twelve 30-day months.

                                        2

(c) In the event that any date on which interest is payable on the 2035
Senior Notes is not a Business Day, then payment of the interest payable on such
date will be made on the next succeeding day that is a Business Day (and without
any interest or other payment in respect of any such delay), except that, if
such Business Day is in the next succeeding calendar year, such payment shall be
made on the immediately preceding Business Day, in each case with the same force
and effect as if made on the date the payment was originally payable.

      (d) All payments of the principal of, and premium, if any, and interest on
the 2035 Senior Notes due at the Stated Maturity or upon redemption will be made
upon surrender of the 2035 Senior Notes at the Corporate Trust Office of the
Trustee.

      (e) The principal of and premium, if any, and interest on the 2035 Senior
Notes shall be paid in such coin or currency of the United States of America as
at the time of payment is legal tender for payment of public and private debts.
Payments of interest (including interest on any Interest Payment Date) will be
made, subject to such surrender where applicable, at the option of the Company,
(i) by check mailed to the address of the Person entitled thereto as such
address shall appear in the Security Register or (ii) by wire transfer at such
place and to such account at a banking institution in the United States as may
be designated in writing to the Trustee at least 15 days prior to the date for
payment by the Person entitled thereto.

SECTION 1.04. Denominations.

      The 2035 Senior Notes may be issued in denominations of $2,000, and whole
multiples of $1,000 in excess of $2,000.

SECTION 1.05. Global Securities.

      (a) The 2035 Senior Notes will be issued in the form of one or more Global
Securities registered in the name of the Depositary or its nominee. Except under
the limited circumstances described below, 2035 Senior Notes represented by
Global Securities will not be exchangeable for, and will not otherwise be
issuable as, 2035 Senior Notes in definitive form. The Global Securities
described above may not be transferred except by the Depositary to a nominee of
the Depositary or by a nominee of the Depositary to the Depositary or another
nominee of the Depositary or to a successor Depositary or its nominee.

      (b) Except as otherwise provided in this Thirteenth Supplemental
Indenture, owners of beneficial interests in such Global Securities will not be
considered the holders thereof for any purpose under the Indenture, and no
Global Security representing a 2035 Senior Note shall be exchangeable, except
for another Global Security of like denomination and tenor to be registered in
the name of the Depositary or its nominee or to a successor Depositary or its
nominee. The rights of holders of such Global Securities shall be exercised only
through the Depositary.

      (c) A Global Security shall be exchangeable for 2035 Senior Notes
registered in the names of Persons other than the Depositary or its nominee only
as provided by Section 2.11(c) of the Original Indenture, subject to the
procedures of the Depositary. Any Global Security that is exchangeable pursuant
to the preceding sentence shall be exchangeable for 2035 Senior Notes registered
in such names as the Depositary shall direct.

                                        3

SECTION 1.06. Transfer.

      No service charge will be made for any registration of transfer or
exchange of 2035 Senior Notes, but payment will be required of a sum sufficient
to cover any tax or other governmental charge that may be imposed in connection
therewith.

SECTION 1.07. Defeasance.

      The provisions of Sections 13.02 and 13.03 of the Original Indenture will
apply to the 2035 Senior Notes.

SECTION 1.08. Redemption at the Option of the Company.

      (a)(i) If the Acquisition is not consummated or is terminated on or prior
   to September 30, 2005, the 2035 Senior Notes will be redeemable, at the
   option of the Company, in whole (but not in part) at any time on a date
   selected by the Company on or prior to November 7, 2005 (such date fixed for
   redemption, the "Trigger Redemption Date"), at a redemption price (the
   "Trigger Redemption Price") equal to the greater of (i) 100% of the principal
   amount of the 2035 Senior Notes to be redeemed and (ii) an amount equal to
   the sum of the present values of the remaining scheduled payments of
   principal and interest on the 2035 Senior Notes to be redeemed, not including
   any portion of the payments of interest accrued as of such Trigger Redemption
   Date, discounted to such Trigger Redemption Date on a semi-annual basis
   (assuming a 360-day year consisting of twelve 30-day months) at the Treasury
   Rate, plus 127 basis points; plus in each case, accrued and unpaid interest
   on the 2035 Senior Notes to be redeemed to, but excluding, such Trigger
   Redemption Date.

         (ii) The 2035 Senior Notes will be redeemable, at the option of the
   Company, in whole at any time or in part from time to time (any such date
   fixed for redemption, an "Optional Redemption Date"), at a redemption price
   (the "Optional Redemption Price") equal to the greater of (i) 100% of the
   principal amount of the 2035 Senior Notes to be redeemed and (ii) an amount
   equal to the sum of the present values of the remaining scheduled payments of
   principal and interest on the 2035 Senior Notes to be redeemed, not including
   any portion of the payments of interest accrued as of such Optional
   Redemption Date, discounted to such Optional Redemption Date on a semi-annual
   basis (assuming a 360-day year consisting of twelve 30-day months) at the
   Treasury Rate, plus 20 basis points; plus in each case, accrued and unpaid
   interest on the 2035 Senior Notes to be redeemed to, but excluding, such
   Optional Redemption Date.

         (iii) "Acquisition" means the acquisition by the Company of The
   Travelers Life Insurance Company, The Travelers Life & Annuity Reinsurance
   Company and Citicorp Life Insurance Company pursuant to the Acquisition
   Agreement by and between Citigroup Inc. and the Company, dated as of January
   31, 2005, as amended.

         (iv) "Treasury Rate" means the rate per year equal to the semi-annual
   equivalent yield to maturity of the Comparable Treasury Issue, calculated
   using a price for the Comparable Treasury Issue (expressed as a percentage of
   its principal amount) equal to the Comparable Treasury Price for such Trigger
   Redemption Date or Optional Redemption Date, as the case

                                        4

may be. The Treasury Rate shall be calculated on the third Business Day
   preceding the Trigger Redemption Date or Optional Redemption Date, as the
   case may be.

      (v) "Comparable Treasury Issue" means the United States Treasury security
   selected by the Independent Investment Banker as having a maturity comparable
   to the remaining term of the 2035 Senior Notes to be redeemed that would be
   utilized, at the time of selection and in accordance with customary financial
   practice, in pricing new issues of corporate debt securities of comparable
   maturity to the remaining term of the 2035 Senior Notes.

      (vi) "Independent Investment Banker" means either Banc of America
   Securities LLC or Goldman, Sachs & Co., as selected by the Company, and any
   successor firm or, if such firm is unwilling or unable to select the
   Comparable Treasury Issue, an independent investment banking institution of
   national standing appointed by the Trustee after consultation with the
   Company.

      (vii) "Comparable Treasury Price" means with respect to any Trigger
   Redemption Date or Optional Redemption Date (1) the average of the Reference
   Treasury Dealer Quotations for such Trigger Redemption Date or Optional
   Redemption Date, as the case may be, after excluding the highest and lowest
   of such Reference Treasury Dealer Quotations, or (2) if the Trustee obtains
   fewer than five such Reference Treasury Dealer Quotations, the average of all
   such quotations.

      (viii) "Reference Treasury Dealer" means each of Banc of America
   Securities LLC, Goldman, Sachs & Co., Deutsche Bank Securities Inc. and two
   other primary U.S. government securities dealers (each a "Primary Treasury
   Dealer"), as specified by the Company; provided that (1) if any of Banc of
   America Securities LLC, Goldman, Sachs & Co., Deutsche Bank Securities Inc.
   or any Primary Treasury Dealer as specified by the Company shall cease to be
   a Primary Treasury Dealer, the Company will substitute therefor another
   Primary Treasury Dealer and (2) if the Company fails to select a substitute
   within a reasonable period of time, then the substitute will be a Primary
   Treasury Dealer selected by the Trustee after consultation with the Company.

      (ix) "Reference Treasury Dealer Quotations" means, with respect to the
   Reference Treasury Dealer and any Trigger Redemption Date or Optional
   Redemption Date, the average, as determined by the Trustee, of the bid and
   asked prices for the Comparable Treasury Issue (expressed, in each case, as a
   percentage of its principal amount) quoted in writing to the Trustee by such
   Reference Treasury Dealer at 5:00 p.m., New York City time, on the third
   Business Day preceding such Trigger Redemption Date or Optional Redemption
   Date, as the case may be.

      (b) Notwithstanding Section 3.02 of the Original Indenture, (i) the notice
of redemption with respect to the redemption referred to in Section 1.08(a)(i)
above, shall be mailed not less than 15 Business Days and not more than 20
Business Days before the Trigger Redemption Date and (ii) the notice of
redemption with respect to the redemption referred to in Section 1.08(a)(i) and
Section 1.08(a)(ii) above need not set forth the Optional Redemption Price or
the Trigger Redemption Price, as applicable, but only the manner of calculation
thereof. Notices of redemption of the 2035 Senior Notes shall state that payment
of the Optional Redemption Price or

                                        5

the Trigger Redemption Price, as applicable, of such 2035 Senior Notes to be
redeemed shall be made at the Corporate Trust Office of the Trustee and shall
specify the CUSIP No. and ISIN No. of such 2035 Senior Notes.

      (c) The Company shall notify the Trustee of the Optional Redemption Price
or Trigger Redemption Price, as applicable, with respect to the foregoing
redemption promptly after the calculation thereof. The Trustee shall not be
responsible for calculating said Optional Redemption Price or Trigger Redemption
Price.

      (d) If less than all of the 2035 Senior Notes are to be redeemed, the
Trustee shall select the 2035 Senior Notes or portions of the 2035 Senior Notes
to be redeemed by such method as the Trustee deems fair and appropriate. The
Trustee may select for redemption 2035 Senior Notes and portions of 2035 Senior
Notes in amounts of $2,000 and whole multiples of $1,000 in excess of $2,000.

      (e) The Company shall give the Trustee notice of a Trigger Redemption Date
promptly after the later of September 30, 2005 or the date that the Company
determines to redeem the 2035 Senior Notes pursuant to Section 1.08 (a)(i).
Prior to a redemption of the 2035 Senior Notes pursuant to Section 1.08(a)(i)
above, the Company shall deliver to the Trustee an Officers' Certificate and an
Opinion of Counsel to the effect that all conditions precedent provided for in
this Thirteenth Supplemental Indenture to the right of the Company to redeem the
2035 Senior Notes pursuant to such Section 1.08(a)(i) have been complied with.

                                   ARTICLE II

                            Miscellaneous Provisions

SECTION 2.01. Recitals by the Company.

      The recitals in this Thirteenth Supplemental Indenture are made by the
Company only and not by the Trustee, and all of the provisions contained in the
Original Indenture in respect of the rights, privileges, immunities, powers and
duties of the Trustee shall be applicable in respect of the 2035 Senior Notes
and of this Thirteenth Supplemental Indenture as fully and with like effect as
if set forth herein in full.

SECTION 2.02. Ratification and Incorporation of Original Indenture.

      As supplemented hereby, the Original Indenture is in all respects ratified
and confirmed, and the Original Indenture and this Thirteenth Supplemental
Indenture shall be read, taken and construed as one and the same instrument.

SECTION 2.03. Executed in Counterparts.

      This Thirteenth Supplemental Indenture may be simultaneously executed in
several counterparts, each of which shall be deemed to be an original, and such
counterparts shall together constitute but one and the same instrument.

                                        6

IN WITNESS WHEREOF, each party hereto has caused this instrument to be
signed in its name and behalf by its duly authorized officers, all as of the day
and year first above written.

                                   METLIFE, INC.

                                   By: /s/ Anthony J. Williamson
                                      ------------------------------------------
                                      Name: Anthony J. Williamson
                                      Title: Senior Vice President and Treasurer

                                   J.P. MORGAN TRUST COMPANY,
                                      NATIONAL ASSOCIATION, as Trustee

                                   By: /s/ James Heaney
                                      ------------------------------------------
                                      Name: James Heaney
                                      Title: Vice President

                                        7

EXHIBIT A

                   FORM OF 5.70% SENIOR NOTE DUE JUNE 15, 2035

      THIS NOTE IS A GLOBAL SECURITY WITHIN THE MEANING OF THE ORIGINAL
INDENTURE HEREINAFTER REFERRED TO. UNLESS THIS CERTIFICATE IS PRESENTED BY AN
AUTHORIZED REPRESENTATIVE OF THE DEPOSITORY TRUST COMPANY ("DTC"), A NEW YORK
CORPORATION, TO METLIFE, INC. OR ITS AGENT FOR REGISTRATION OF TRANSFER,
EXCHANGE OR PAYMENT, AND ANY CERTIFICATE ISSUED IS REGISTERED IN THE NAME OF
CEDE & CO. OR IN SUCH OTHER NAME AS IS REQUESTED BY AN AUTHORIZED REPRESENTATIVE
OF DTC (AND ANY PAYMENT IS MADE TO CEDE & CO. OR TO SUCH OTHER ENTITY AS IS
REQUESTED BY AN AUTHORIZED REPRESENTATIVE OF DTC), ANY TRANSFER, PLEDGE OR OTHER
USE HEREOF FOR VALUE OR OTHERWISE BY OR TO ANY PERSON IS WRONGFUL INASMUCH AS
THE REGISTERED OWNER HEREOF, CEDE & CO., HAS AN INTEREST HEREIN.

      EXCEPT AS OTHERWISE PROVIDED IN SECTION 2.11 OF THE ORIGINAL INDENTURE,
THIS NOTE MAY BE TRANSFERRED IN WHOLE, BUT NOT IN PART, ONLY TO DTC, TO ANOTHER
NOMINEE OF DTC OR TO A SUCCESSOR DEPOSITARY OR TO A NOMINEE OF SUCH SUCCESSOR
DEPOSITARY.

                                       A-1

No.___                                                      CUSIP No.: 59156RAM0
                                                          ISIN No.: US59156RAM07

                                  METLIFE, INC.

                                5.70% Senior Note
                                Due June 15, 2035

Principal Amount:          $

Regular Record Date:       With respect to each Interest Payment Date, the close
                           of business on the preceding May 31 or November 30,
                           as the case may be (whether or not a Business Day)

Original Issue Date:       June 23, 2005

Stated Maturity:           June 15, 2035

Interest Payment Dates:    June 15 and December 15, commencing December 15, 2005

Interest Rate:             5.70% per year

Authorized Denomination:   $2,000 and whole multiples of $1,000 in excess of
                           $2,000

      MetLife, Inc., a Delaware corporation (the "Company," which term includes
any successor corporation under the Indenture referred to on the reverse
hereof), for value received, hereby promises to pay to _______________________,
or registered assigns, the principal sum of ________________ ($________________)
on the Stated Maturity shown above, and to pay interest thereon from the
Original Issue Date shown above, or from the most recent Interest Payment Date
to which interest has been paid or duly provided for, semi-annually in arrears
on each Interest Payment Date as specified above, commencing on December 15,
2005, and on the Stated Maturity at the rate per year shown above until the
principal hereof is paid or made available for payment and on any overdue
principal and on any overdue installment of interest at such rate to the extent
permitted by law. The interest so payable, and punctually paid or duly provided
for, on any Interest Payment Date (other than an Interest Payment Date that is
the Stated Maturity or a Trigger Redemption Date or an Optional Redemption Date)
will, as provided in the Indenture, be paid to the Person in whose name this
Note is registered at the close of business on the Regular Record Date as
specified above next preceding such Interest Payment Date, provided that any
interest payable at Stated Maturity or on a Trigger Redemption Date or an
Optional Redemption Date will be paid to the Person to whom principal is
payable. Any such interest that is not so punctually paid or duly provided for
will forthwith cease to be payable to the holders on such Regular Record Date
and may be paid as provided in Section 2.03 of the Original Indenture.

                                       A-2

Payments of interest on this Note will include interest accrued to but
excluding the respective Interest Payment Dates. Interest payments for this Note
shall be computed and paid on the basis of a 360-day year consisting of twelve
30-day months. In the event that any date on which interest is payable on this
Note is not a Business Day, then payment of the interest payable on such date
will be made on the next succeeding day that is a Business Day (and without any
interest or other payment in respect of any such delay), except that, if such
Business Day is in the next succeeding calendar year, payment shall be made on
the immediately preceding Business Day, in each case with the same force and
effect as if made on the date the payment was originally payable.

      Payment of the principal, premium, if any, and interest due at the Stated
Maturity or earlier redemption of this Note shall be made upon surrender of this
Note at the Corporate Trust Office of the Trustee. The principal of and premium,
if any, and interest on this Note shall be paid in such coin or currency of the
United States of America as at the time of payment is legal tender for payment
of public and private debts. Payment of interest (including interest on an
Interest Payment Date) will be made, subject to such surrender where applicable,
at the option of the Company, (i) by check mailed to the address of the Person
entitled thereto as such address shall appear in the Security Register or (ii)
by wire transfer at such place and to such account at a banking institution in
the United States as may be designated in writing to the Trustee at least 15
days prior to the date for payment by the Person entitled thereto.

      The 2035 Senior Notes (as defined on the reverse hereof) will be unsecured
obligations of the Company and will rank equally in right of payment with all of
the other unsecured, unsubordinated indebtedness of the Company from time to
time outstanding. The 2035 Senior Notes will rank senior to any subordinated
indebtedness of the Company.

      REFERENCE IS HEREBY MADE TO THE FURTHER PROVISIONS OF THIS NOTE SET FORTH
ON THE REVERSE HEREOF, WHICH FURTHER PROVISIONS SHALL FOR ALL PURPOSES HAVE THE
SAME EFFECT AS IF SET FORTH AT THIS PLACE.

      Unless the certificate of authentication hereon has been executed by the
Trustee by manual signature, this Note shall not be entitled to any benefit
under the Indenture or be valid or obligatory for any purpose.

                                       A-3

IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the Company has caused this instrument to be duly
executed under its corporate seal.

                                               METLIFE, INC.

                                               By:______________________________
                                                  Name:
                                                  Title:

Attest:

____________________________
Name:
Title:

                             [Seal of MetLife, Inc.]

                                                  Dated:

                                       A-4

(Reverse Side of Note)

   1. This Note is one of a duly authorized issue of senior notes of the Company
(the "Securities") issued and issuable in one or more series under an Indenture
dated as of November 9, 2001 (the "Original Indenture"), as supplemented by the
Thirteenth Supplemental Indenture, dated as of June 23, 2005 (the "Thirteenth
Supplemental Indenture," and together with the Original Indenture, the
"Indenture"), between the Company and J.P. Morgan Trust Company, National
Association (as successor to Bank One Trust Company, N.A.), as Trustee (the
"Trustee," which term includes any successor trustee under the Indenture), to
which Indenture and all indentures incidental thereto reference is hereby made
for a statement of the respective rights, limitations of rights, duties and
immunities thereunder of the Company, the Trustee and the holders of the
Securities issued thereunder and of the terms upon which said Securities are,
and are to be, authenticated and delivered. This Note is one of the series
designated on the face hereof as 5.70% Senior Notes due June 15 2035 (the "2035
Senior Notes"), initially limited in aggregate principal amount to
$1,000,000,000; provided, however, that (subject to the provisions of the
Thirteenth Supplemental Indenture) the aggregate principal amount of the 2035
Senior Notes may be increased in the future, without the consent of the holders
of the 2035 Senior Notes, on the same terms and with the same CUSIP and ISIN
numbers as the 2035 Senior Notes. Capitalized terms used herein for which no
definition is provided herein shall have the meanings set forth in the
Indenture.

   2. This Note is exchangeable in whole or from time to time in part for 2035
Senior Notes in definitive registered form only as provided herein and in the
Indenture. If (i) at any time the Depositary notifies the Company that it is
unwilling or unable to continue as Depositary for this Note or if at any time
the Depositary shall no longer be registered or in good standing under the
Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, or other applicable statute or
regulation, and the Company does not appoint a successor Depositary within 90
days after the Company receives such notice or becomes aware of such condition,
as the case may be, or (ii) the Company in its sole discretion determines that
this Note shall be exchangeable for 2035 Senior Notes in definitive registered
form and executes and delivers to the Security Registrar a written order of the
Company providing that this Note shall be so exchangeable, this Note (subject to
the procedures of the Depositary) shall be exchangeable for 2035 Senior Notes in
definitive registered form, provided that the definitive 2035 Senior Notes so
issued in exchange for this Note shall be in denominations of $2,000 and any
whole multiples of $1,000 in excess of $2,000, without coupons, and be of like
aggregate principal amount and tenor as the portion of this Note to be
exchanged. Except as provided above, owners of beneficial interests in this Note
will not be entitled to have 2035 Senior Notes registered in their names, will
not receive or be entitled to physical delivery of 2035 Senior Notes in
definitive registered form and will not be considered the holders thereof for
any purpose under the Indenture. Neither the Company, the Trustee, any Paying
Agent nor the Security Registrar shall have any responsibility or liability for
any aspect of records relating to or payments made on account of beneficial
ownership interests in this Note, or for maintaining, supervising or reviewing
any records relating to such beneficial ownership interests.

   3. If an Event of Default with respect to the 2035 Senior Notes shall occur
and be continuing, the principal of the 2035 Senior Notes may be declared due
and payable in the manner, with the effect and subject to the conditions
provided in the Indenture.

                                       A-5

4. The Indenture permits, with certain exceptions as therein provided, the
amendment thereof and the modification of the rights and obligations of the
Company and the rights of the holders of the Securities under the Indenture at
any time by the Company and the Trustee with the consent of the holders of not
less than a majority in aggregate principal amount of the Securities at the time
Outstanding of each series to be affected. The Indenture also contains
provisions permitting the holders of specified percentages in principal amount
of the Securities of each series at the time Outstanding, on behalf of the
holders of all Securities of such series, to waive compliance by the Company
with certain provisions of the Indenture and certain past defaults under the
Indenture and their consequences. Any such consent or waiver by the holder of
this Note shall be conclusive and binding upon such holder and upon all future
holders of this Note and of any 2035 Senior Note issued upon the registration of
transfer hereof or in exchange hereof or in lieu hereof, whether or not notation
of such consent or waiver is made upon this Note.

   5. The Indenture contains provisions for defeasance at any time of (a) the
entire indebtedness of the Company pursuant to this Note and (b) restrictive
covenants and the related Events of Default, upon compliance by the Company with
certain conditions set forth therein, which provisions apply to this Note.

   6. (a) If the Acquisition is not consummated, or is terminated, on or prior
to September 30, 2005, the 2035 Senior Notes will be redeemable, at the option
of the Company, in whole (but not in part) at any time on a date selected by the
Company on or prior to November 7, 2005 (such date fixed for redemption, the
"Trigger Redemption Date"), at a redemption price (the "Trigger Redemption
Price") equal to the greater of (i) 100% of the principal amount of the 2035
Senior Notes to be redeemed and (ii) an amount equal to the sum of the present
values of the remaining scheduled payments of principal and interest on the 2035
Senior Notes to be redeemed, not including any portion of the payments of
interest accrued as of such Trigger Redemption Date, discounted to such Trigger
Redemption Date on a semi-annual basis (assuming a 360-day year consisting of
twelve 30-day months) at the Treasury Rate, plus 127 basis points; plus in each
case, accrued and unpaid interest on the 2035 Senior Notes to be redeemed to,
but excluding, such Trigger Redemption Date.

      (b) The 2035 Senior Notes will be redeemable, at the option of the
Company, in whole at any time or in part from time to time (any such date fixed
for redemption, an "Optional Redemption Date"), at a redemption price (the
"Optional Redemption Price") equal to the greater of (i) 100% of the principal
amount of the 2035 Senior Notes to be redeemed and (ii) an amount equal to the
sum of the present values of the remaining scheduled payments of principal and
interest on the 2035 Senior Notes to be redeemed, not including any portion of
the payments of interest accrued as of such Optional Redemption Date, discounted
to such Optional Redemption Date on a semi-annual basis (assuming a 360-day year
consisting of twelve 30-day months) at the Treasury Rate, plus 20 basis points;
plus in each case, accrued and unpaid interest on the 2035 Senior Notes to be
redeemed to, but excluding, such Optional Redemption Date.

      "Acquisition" means the acquisition by the Company of The Travelers Life
Insurance Company, The Travelers Life & Annuity Reinsurance Company and Citicorp
Life Insurance Company pursuant to the Acquisition Agreement by and between
Citigroup Inc. and the Company, dated as of January 31, 2005, as amended.

                                       A-6

"Treasury Rate" means the rate per year equal to the semi-annual
equivalent yield to maturity of the Comparable Treasury Issue, calculated using
a price for the Comparable Treasury Issue (expressed as a percentage of its
principal amount) equal to the Comparable Treasury Price for such Trigger
Redemption Date or Optional Redemption Date, as the case may be. The Treasury
Rate shall be calculated on the third Business Day preceding the Trigger
Redemption Date or Optional Redemption Date, as the case may be.

      "Comparable Treasury Issue" means the United States Treasury security
selected by the Independent Investment Banker as having a maturity comparable to
the remaining term of the 2035 Senior Notes to be redeemed that would be
utilized, at the time of selection and in accordance with customary financial
practice, in pricing new issues of corporate debt securities of comparable
maturity to the remaining term of the 2035 Senior Notes.

      "Independent Investment Banker" means either of Banc of America Securities
LLC or Goldman, Sachs & Co., as selected by the Company, and any successor firm
or, if such firm is unwilling or unable to select the Comparable Treasury Issue,
an independent investment banking institution of national standing appointed by
the Trustee after consultation with the Company.

      "Comparable Treasury Price" means with respect to any Trigger Redemption
Date or Optional Redemption Date (1) the average of the Reference Treasury
Dealer Quotations for such Trigger Redemption Date or Optional Redemption Date,
as the case may be, after excluding the highest and lowest of such Reference
Treasury Dealer Quotations, or (2) if the Trustee obtains fewer than five such
Reference Treasury Dealer Quotations, the average of all such quotations.

      "Reference Treasury Dealer" means each of Banc of America Securities LLC,
Goldman, Sachs & Co., Deutsche Bank Securities Inc. and two other primary U.S.
government securities dealers (each a "Primary Treasury Dealer"), as specified
by the Company; provided that (1) if any of Banc of America Securities LLC,
Goldman, Sachs & Co., Deutsche Bank Securities Inc. or any Primary Treasury
Dealer as specified by the Company shall cease to be a Primary Treasury Dealer,
the Company will substitute therefor another Primary Treasury Dealer and (2) if
the Company fails to select a substitute within a reasonable period of time,
then the substitute will be a Primary Treasury Dealer selected by the Trustee
after consultation with the Company.

      "Reference Treasury Dealer Quotations" means, with respect to the
Reference Treasury Dealer and any Trigger Redemption Date or Optional Redemption
Date, the average, as determined by the Trustee, of the bid and asked prices for
the Comparable Treasury Issue (expressed, in each case, as a percentage of its
principal amount) quoted in writing to the Trustee by such Reference Treasury
Dealer at 5:00 p.m., New York City time, on the third Business Day preceding
such Trigger Redemption Date or Optional Redemption Date, as the case may be.

      (c) Notwithstanding Section 3.02 of the Original Indenture, (i) the notice
of redemption with respect to the redemption referred to in Section 6(a) above,
shall be mailed not less than 15 Business Days and not more than 20 Business
Days before the Trigger Redemption Date and (ii) the notice of redemption with
respect to the redemption referred to in Section 6(a) and Section 6(b) above
need not set forth the Optional Redemption Price or the Trigger Redemption
Price, as applicable, but only the manner of calculation thereof. Notices of
redemption of the 2035 Senior Notes shall state that payment of the Optional
Redemption Price or the Trigger Redemption Price, as applicable, of such

                                       A-7

2035 Senior Notes to be redeemed shall be made at the Corporate Trust Office of
the Trustee and shall specify the CUSIP No. and ISIN No. of such 2035 Senior
Notes.

      (d) The Company shall notify the Trustee of the Optional Redemption Price
or Trigger Redemption Price, as applicable, with respect to the foregoing
redemption promptly after the calculation thereof. The Trustee shall not be
responsible for calculating said Optional Redemption Price or Trigger Redemption
Price.

      (e) If less than all of the 2035 Senior Notes are to be redeemed, the
Trustee will select the 2035 Senior Notes or portions of 2035 Senior Notes to be
redeemed by such method as the Trustee deems fair and appropriate. The Trustee
may select for redemption 2035 Senior Notes and portions of 2035 Senior Notes in
amounts of $2,000 and whole multiples of $1,000 in excess of $2,000.

   7. No reference herein to the Indenture and no provision of this Note or of
the Indenture shall alter or impair the obligation of the Company, which is
absolute and unconditional, to pay the principal of, and premium, if any, and
interest on this Note at the time, place and rate, and in the coin or currency,
herein prescribed.

   8. (a) As provided in the Indenture and subject to certain limitations
therein set forth, the transfer of this Note is registrable in the Security
Register, upon surrender of this Note for registration of transfer at the office
or agency of the Company for such purpose, duly endorsed by, or accompanied by a
written instrument of transfer in form satisfactory to the Company or the
Security Registrar and duly executed by, the holder hereof or his attorney duly
authorized in writing, and thereupon one or more new 2035 Senior Notes, of
authorized denominations and of like tenor and for the same aggregate principal
amount, will be issued to the designated transferee or transferees. No service
charge shall be made for any such registration of transfer, but the Company will
require payment of a sum sufficient to cover any tax or other governmental
charge payable in connection therewith.

      (b) Prior to due presentment of this Note for registration of transfer,
the Company, the Trustee, any Paying Agent and the Security Registrar of the
Company or the Trustee may deem and treat the Person in whose name this Note is
registered as the absolute owner hereof for all purposes, whether or not this
Note be overdue and notwithstanding any notice of ownership or writing thereon
made by anyone other than the Security Registrar, and neither the Company nor
the Trustee nor any Paying Agent nor the Security Registrar shall be affected by
notice to the contrary. Except as provided in Section 1.03(a) of the Thirteenth
Supplemental Indenture, all payments of the principal of and premium, if any,
and interest on this Note made to or upon the order of the registered holder
hereof shall, to the extent of the amount or amounts so paid, effectually
satisfy and discharge liability for moneys payable on this Note.

      (c) The 2035 Senior Notes are issuable only in registered form without
coupons in denominations of $2,000 and whole multiples of $1,000 in excess of
$2,000. As provided in the Indenture and subject to certain limitations therein
set forth, 2035 Senior Notes are exchangeable for a like aggregate principal
amount of 2035 Senior Notes of a different authorized denomination, as requested
by the holder surrendering the same upon surrender of the 2035 Senior Note or
2035 Senior Notes to be exchanged at the office or agency of the Company.

                                       A-8

9. No recourse shall be had for payment of the principal of, premium, if any,
or interest on this Note, or for any claim based hereon, or otherwise in respect
hereof, or based on or in respect of the Indenture, against any incorporator,
stockholder, officer or director, past, present or future, as such, of the
Company or of any predecessor or successor corporation, whether by virtue of any
constitution, statute or rule of law, or by the enforcement of any assessment or
penalty or otherwise, all such liability being, by the acceptance hereof and as
part of the consideration for the issuance hereof, expressly waived and
released.

   10. Unless the certificate of authentication hereon has been executed by the
Trustee by manual signature, this Note shall not be entitled to any benefit
under the Indenture or be valid or obligatory for any purpose.

   11. This Note shall be governed by, and construed in accordance with, the
internal laws of the State of New York.

                                       A-9

ABBREVIATIONS

      The following abbreviations, when used in the inscription on the face of
this instrument, shall be construed as though they were written out in full
according to applicable laws or regulations:

TEN COM -   as tenants in common            UNIF GIFT MIN ACT - Custodian under
                                            Uniform Gift to Minors Act

                                            ____________________________________
                                            (State)

TEN ENT -   as tenants by the entireties

JT TEN -    as joint tenants with right
            of survivorship and not as
            tenants in common

    Additional abbreviations may also be used though not on the above list.

FOR VALUE RECEIVED, the undersigned hereby sell(s) and transfer(s) unto

PLEASE PRINT OR TYPEWRITE NAME AND ADDRESS, INCLUDING POSTAL ZIP CODE OF
ASSIGNEE

________________________________________________________________________________

________________________________________________________________________________

________________________________________________________________________________
(please insert Social Security or other identifying number of assignee)

the within Note and all rights thereunder, hereby irrevocably constituting and
appointing

________________________________________________________________________________

________________________________________________________________________________

agent to transfer said Note on the books of the Company, with full power of
substitution in the premises.

Dated: ______________                       ____________________________________

                                            NOTICE: The signature to this
                                            assignment must correspond with the
                                            name as written upon the face of the
                                            within instrument in every
                                            particular without alteration or
                                            enlargement, or any change
                                            whatsoever.

                                       A-10

EXHIBIT B
                          CERTIFICATE OF AUTHENTICATION

      This is one of the 5.70% Senior Notes due June 15, 2035 referred to in the
within-mentioned Indenture.

                                             J.P.MORGAN TRUST COMPANY,
                                             NATIONAL ASSOCIATION, as Trustee

                                             By:________________________________
                                                Authorized Officer

                                       B-1

</EX-4.13>

<EX-4.14>
 5
 y87657exv4w14.txt
 EX-4.14

EXHIBIT 4.14

                                 METLIFE, INC.,

                                    as Issuer

                                       and

                J.P. MORGAN TRUST COMPANY, NATIONAL ASSOCIATION,
                 (as successor to Bank One Trust Company, N.A.),

                                   as Trustee

                          -----------------------------

                        FOURTEENTH SUPPLEMENTAL INDENTURE

                            Dated as of June 29, 2005

                           SUPPLEMENT TO THE INDENTURE

                          Dated as of November 9, 2001

                          ----------------------------

                                 GBP400,000,000

                      5.25% SENIOR NOTES DUE JUNE 29, 2020

TABLE OF CONTENTS(1)

----------
(1)   This Table of Contents does not constitute part of the Fourteenth
      Supplemental Indenture and shall not have any bearing on the
      interpretation of any of its terms or provisions.

THIS FOURTEENTH SUPPLEMENTAL INDENTURE is made as of the 29th day of June,
2005, by and between METLIFE, INC., a Delaware corporation (the "Company"), and
J.P. MORGAN TRUST COMPANY, NATIONAL ASSOCIATION (as successor to Bank One Trust
Company, N.A.), a national banking corporation, as trustee (the "Trustee", which
term includes any successor trustee):

      WHEREAS, the Company has heretofore entered into an Indenture, dated as of
November 9, 2001 (the "Original Indenture"), with the Trustee;

      WHEREAS, the Original Indenture is incorporated herein by this reference
and the Original Indenture, as supplemented by this Fourteenth Supplemental
Indenture, is herein called the "Indenture";

      WHEREAS, under the Original Indenture a new series of Securities may at
any time be established by the Board of Directors of the Company in accordance
with the provisions of the Original Indenture or the terms of such series may be
described by a supplemental indenture executed by the Company and the Trustee;

      WHEREAS, the Company proposes to create under the Indenture a new series
of Securities;

      WHEREAS, additional Securities of other series hereafter established,
except as may be limited in the Original Indenture as at the time supplemented
and modified, may be issued from time to time pursuant to the Original Indenture
as at the time supplemented and modified; and

      WHEREAS, all things necessary to make this Fourteenth Supplemental
Indenture a valid agreement of the Company, in accordance with its terms, have
been done;

      NOW THEREFORE, in consideration of the agreements and obligations set
forth herein and for other good and valuable consideration, the sufficiency of
which is hereby acknowledged, the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:

                                   ARTICLE I

                      5.25% SENIOR NOTES DUE JUNE 29, 2020

SECTION 1.01. Establishment.

      (a) There is hereby established a new series of Securities to be issued
under the Indenture, to be designated as the Company's 5.25% Senior Notes due
June 29, 2020 (the "2020 Senior Notes").

      (b) There are to be authenticated and delivered 2020 Senior Notes,
initially limited in aggregate principal amount to GBP400,000,000, and no
further 2020 Senior Notes shall be authenticated and delivered except as
provided by Section 2.05, 2.07, 2.11, 3.03 or 9.04 of the Original Indenture;
provided, however, that the aggregate principal amount of the 2020 Senior

                                       2

Notes may be increased in the future, without the consent of the holders of the
2020 Senior Notes, on the same terms and with the same ISIN number and Common
Code as the 2020 Senior Notes, except for the issue price, Original Issue Date
and first Interest Payment Date, provided, that no Event of Default with respect
to the 2020 Senior Notes shall have occurred and be continuing. The 2020 Senior
Notes shall be issued in fully registered form.

      (c) The 2020 Senior Notes shall be issued in the form of one or more
Global Securities, in substantially the form set out in Exhibit A hereto (the
"Form of 2020 Senior Note"), registered in the name of Chase Nominees Limited,
as nominee of the common depositary, JPMorgan Chase Bank, N.A., London branch
(the "Common Depositary"), for Clearstream Banking, societe anonyme Luxembourg;
and Euroclear Bank S.A./N.V., as more fully described in Section 1.05 of this
Fourteenth Supplemental Indenture.

      (d) The form of the Trustee's Certificate of Authentication for the 2020
Senior Notes shall be substantially in the form set forth in Exhibit B hereto.

      (e) Each 2020 Senior Note shall be dated the date of authentication
thereof and shall bear interest from the Original Issue Date or from the most
recent Interest Payment Date to which interest has been paid or duly provided
for.

SECTION 1.02 Definitions.

      (a) The following defined terms used herein shall, unless the context
otherwise requires, have the meanings specified below. Capitalized terms used
herein for which no definition is provided herein shall have the meanings set
forth in the Original Indenture.

      "Additional Amounts" means any additional amounts which may be required by
a 2020 Senior Note, under the circumstances specified herein or therein, to be
paid by the Company in respect of certain taxes, assessments or other
governmental charges imposed on beneficial holders specified therein and which
are owing to such beneficial holders.

      "Conversion Event" means the cessation of use of (i) a Foreign Currency
both by the government of the country or the confederation which issued such
Foreign Currency and for the settlement of transactions by a central bank or
other public institutions of or within the international banking community or
(ii) any currency unit or composite currency for the purposes for which it was
established.

      "Dollars" means a dollar or other equivalent unit of legal tender for
payment of public or private debts in the United States of America.

      "Foreign Currency" means, with respect to any payment, deposit or other
transfer in respect of principal (whether at the Stated Maturity of the 2020
Senior Notes, upon redemption, or otherwise) of, premium, if any, or interest
on, or Additional Amounts, if any, in respect of any 2020 Senior Note, Pounds
Sterling or, if the United Kingdom adopts the euro as its lawful currency in
accordance with the Treaty establishing the European Communities, as amended
from time to time, euros.

      "Interest Payment Date" means June 29 of each year, commencing June 29,
2006.

                                       3

"Original Issue Date" means June 29, 2005.

      "Pounds Sterling" or "GBP" means the lawful currency of the United
Kingdom.

      "Regular Record Date" means, with respect to each Interest Payment Date,
the close of business on the preceding June 15 (whether or not a Business Day).

      "Stated Maturity" means June 29, 2020.

SECTION 1.03. Payment of Principal and Interest.

      (a) The principal of the 2020 Senior Notes shall be due at Stated
Maturity. The unpaid principal amount of the 2020 Senior Notes shall bear
interest at the rate of 5.25% per year until paid or duly provided for.
Additional Amounts, if any, will also be payable in respect of the 2020 Senior
Notes, as provided in Section 7 of the Form of 2020 Senior Note. Interest shall
be paid annually in arrears on each Interest Payment Date, commencing June 29,
2006, to the Persons in whose names the 2020 Senior Notes are registered on the
Regular Record Date for such Interest Payment Date, provided that interest
payable at the Stated Maturity of principal or upon redemption will be paid to
the Persons to whom principal is payable. Any such interest that is not so
punctually paid or duly provided for will forthwith cease to be payable to the
holders on such Regular Record Date and may be paid as provided in Section 2.03
of the Original Indenture.

      (b) Payments of interest on the 2020 Senior Notes will include interest
accrued to but excluding the respective Interest Payment Dates. Interest
payments for the 2020 Senior Notes shall be computed and paid on an
Actual/Actual (ISMA) day fraction basis. Actual/Actual (ISMA) means that
interest on the 2020 Senior Notes shall be calculated on the basis of (i) the
actual number of days in the period from and including the last Interest Payment
Date (or the Original Issue Date with respect to the first Interest Payment
Date) to but excluding the date on which the Interest Payment Date falls divided
by (ii) the product of (x) the actual number of days in the period from and
including the last Interest Payment Date (or the Original Issue Date with
respect to the first Interest Payment Date) to but excluding the date on which
the Interest Payment Date falls and (y) the number of Interest Payment Dates per
year.

      (c) In the event that any date on which interest is payable on the 2020
Senior Notes is not a Business Day, then payment of the interest payable on such
date will be made on the next succeeding day that is a Business Day (and without
any interest or other payment in respect of any such delay), except that, if
such Business Day is in the next succeeding calendar year, such payment shall be
made on the immediately preceding Business Day, in each case with the same force
and effect as if made on the date the payment was originally payable.

      For purposes of the foregoing, "Business Day" means any day, other than a
day on which federal or state banking institutions in London or the Borough of
Manhattan, The City of New York, are authorized or obligated by law, executive
order or regulation to close.

      (d) In accordance with Section 2.01(14) of the Original Indenture and for
the purposes of the definition of "Outstanding" in Section 1.01 of the Original
Indenture, the principal amount of a 2020 Senior Note that shall be deemed
Outstanding as of any date of

                                       4

calculation shall be the equivalent in Dollars determined as of such calculation
date by using the rate of exchange quoted by Reuters (or its successor) at 10:00
a.m. (New York time) for spot purchases of Dollars with the Foreign Currency,
including any premiums payable and costs of exchange. If Reuters (or its
successor) ceases or is otherwise unable to provide quotes for spot purchases of
Dollars with the Foreign Currency, the Trustee shall refer to the rate of
exchange quoted by another foreign exchange quoting service of substantially
similar international reputation and widely used by international foreign
exchange brokers to determine the applicable market exchange rates between the
Dollar and the Foreign Currency.

      (e) All payments of principal (and Optional Redemption Price as defined in
Section 6 of the Form of 2020 Senior Note, or Tax Redemption Price, as defined
in Section 7(b) of the Form of 2020 Senior Note, if any) of, premium, if any,
and interest on and Additional Amounts, if any, in respect of the 2020 Senior
Notes due at Stated Maturity or upon redemption will be made upon surrender of
the 2020 Senior Notes at the office or agency of J.P. Morgan Trust Company,
National Association which will be the U.S. Paying Agent in the Borough of
Manhattan, The City of New York, at the main office in London, England of
JPMorgan Chase Bank, N.A., London branch which will be the London Paying Agent
and, for so long as the 2020 Senior Notes are listed on the Irish Stock Exchange
and the Irish Stock Exchange shall so require, at the main office in Dublin,
Ireland, of J.P. Morgan Bank (Ireland) plc which will be the Irish Paying Agent
in Dublin, Ireland.

      (f) The principal of, premium, if any, and interest on the 2020 Senior
Notes shall be paid in such coin or currency of the United Kingdom as at the
time of payment is legal tender for payment of public and private debts.
Payments of interest (including interest and any Additional Amounts payable with
respect to interest on any Interest Payment Date) will be made, subject to such
surrender where applicable, at the option of the Company, (i) by check mailed to
the address of the Person entitled thereto as such address shall appear in the
Security Register or (ii) by wire transfer at such place and to such account at
a banking institution in the United Kingdom as may be designated in writing to
the Trustee at least 10 days prior to the date for payment by the Person
entitled thereto.

      (g) Pursuant to Sections 2.05(b) and 4.03 of the Original Indenture and
Section 2.05 of this Fourteenth Supplemental Indenture, J.P. Morgan Trust
Company, National Association will be the registrar, U.S. paying agent and U.S.
transfer agent for the 2020 Senior Notes, JPMorgan Chase Bank, N.A., London
branch will be the London paying agent and transfer agent for the 2020 Senior
Notes and J.P. Morgan Bank (Ireland) plc will be the Irish paying agent and
transfer agent for the 2020 Senior Notes.

SECTION 1.04. Denominations.

      The 2020 Senior Notes may be issued in denominations of GBP50,000, or
whole multiples of GBP1,000 in excess of GBP50,000.

SECTION 1.05. Global Securities.

      (a) The 2020 Senior Notes will be issued in the form of one or more Global
Securities registered in the name of Chase Nominees Limited, as nominee of the
Common

                                       5

Depositary, for Clearstream Banking, societe anonyme, Luxembourg, and Euroclear
Bank S.A./N.V. Except under the limited circumstances described below, 2020
Senior Notes represented by Global Securities will not be exchangeable for, and
will not otherwise be issuable as, 2020 Senior Notes in definitive form. The
Global Securities described above may not be transferred except by the Common
Depositary to a nominee of the Common Depositary or by a nominee of the Common
Depositary to the Common Depositary or another nominee of the Common Depositary
or to a successor Common Depositary or its nominee.

      (b) Except as otherwise provided in this Fourteenth Supplemental
Indenture, owners of beneficial interests in such Global Securities will not be
considered the holders thereof for any purpose under the Indenture, and no
Global Security representing a 2020 Senior Note shall be exchangeable, except
for another Global Security of like denomination and tenor to be registered in
the name of the Common Depositary or its nominee or a successor Common
Depositary or its nominee. The rights of holders of such Global Securities shall
be exercised only through the Common Depositary.

      (c) A Global Security shall be exchangeable for 2020 Senior Notes
registered in the names of Persons other than the Common Depositary or its
nominee only as provided by Section 2.11(c) of the Original Indenture (as if all
references to "Depositary" in said Section 2.11(c) were references to "Common
Depositary"). Any Global Security that is exchangeable pursuant to the preceding
sentence shall be exchangeable for 2020 Senior Notes registered in such names as
the Common Depositary shall direct.

SECTION 1.06. Transfer.

      No service charge will be made for any registration of transfer or
exchange of 2020 Senior Notes, but payment will be required of a sum sufficient
to cover any tax or other governmental charge that may be imposed in connection
therewith.

SECTION 1.07. Defeasance.

      The provisions of Sections 13.02 and 13.03 of the Original Indenture will
apply to the 2020 Senior Notes as modified by Section 2.03 of this Fourteenth
Supplemental Indenture.

SECTION 1.08. Redemption at the Option of the Company.

      (a) The 2020 Senior Notes will be redeemable at the option of the Company,
in whole at any time or in part from time to time pursuant to Section 6 of the
Form of 2020 Senior Note. The Company may also redeem the 2020 Senior Notes upon
the occurrence of certain tax events pursuant to Section 7(b) of the Form of
2020 Senior Note.

      (b) Notwithstanding Section 3.02 of the Original Indenture, the notice of
redemption with respect to the redemption specified in Section 6 of the Form of
2020 Senior Note need not set forth the Optional Redemption Price, but only the
manner of calculation thereof. Notices of redemption of 2020 Senior Notes shall
state that payment of the Optional Redemption Price or Tax Redemption Price, as
applicable, of such 2020 Senior Notes to be redeemed shall be made at the
offices or agencies of the Company set forth in Section 1.03(e) of this
Fourteenth

                                       6

Supplemental Indenture and shall specify the ISIN No. and Common Code of such
2020 Senior Notes.

SECTION 1.09. Notices.

      If the Company is required to give notice to the holders of the 2020
Senior Notes pursuant to the terms of the Indenture, then it shall do so by the
means and in the manner set forth in the Original Indenture. In addition, the
Trustee shall publish notices regarding the 2020 Senior Notes in a daily
newspaper of general circulation in The City of New York and in London and, for
so long as the 2020 Senior Notes are listed on the Irish Stock Exchange and the
rules of such exchange require notice by publication, in a daily newspaper of
general circulation in Dublin, Ireland. Initially, such publication shall be
made in The City of New York in The Wall Street Journal, in London in the
Financial Times and in Ireland in the Irish Times. If publication in Dublin,
Ireland is not practical, the Trustee will publish notices in an English
language newspaper of general circulation elsewhere in Europe. Any such notice
shall be deemed to have been given on the date of publication or, if published
more than once, on the date of the first publication. If publication as
described above becomes impossible, the Trustee may publish sufficient notice by
alternative means that approximate the terms and conditions described in this
Section 1.09.

                                   ARTICLE II

        MATTERS RELATING TO SECURITIES DENOMINATED IN A FOREIGN CURRENCY

SECTION 2.01. Currency Indemnity.

      The Company agrees, to the fullest extent that it may effectively do so
under applicable law, that (a) if for the purpose of obtaining judgment in any
court it is necessary to convert the sum due in respect of the principal of, or
premium or interest, if any, on or Additional Amounts, if any, in respect of,
the 2020 Senior Notes (the "Required Currency") into a currency in which a
judgment will be rendered (the "Judgment Currency"), the rate of exchange used
shall be the rate at which in accordance with normal banking procedures the
Trustee could purchase in The City of New York the requisite amount of the
Required Currency with the Judgment Currency on the New York Banking Day
preceding the day on which a final unappealable judgment is given and (b) its
obligations under the Indenture to make payments in the Required Currency (i)
shall not be satisfied or discharged by any tender, or any recovery pursuant to
any judgment (whether or not entered in accordance with clause (a)), in any
currency other than the Required Currency, except to the extent that such tender
or recovery shall result in the actual receipt, by the payee, of the full amount
of the Required Currency expressed to be payable in respect of such payments,
(ii) shall be enforceable as an alternative or additional cause of action for
the purpose of recovering in the Required Currency the amount, if any, by which
such actual receipt shall fall short of the full amount of the Required Currency
so expressed to be payable and (iii) shall not be affected by judgment being
obtained for any other sum due under the Indenture. For purposes of the
foregoing, "New York Banking Day" means any day except a Saturday, Sunday or a
legal holiday in The City of New York or a day on which banking institutions in
The City of New York are authorized or obligated by law, regulation or executive
order to be closed.

                                       7

SECTION 2.02. Satisfaction and Discharge.

      Except as otherwise provided in Section 2.01 of this Fourteenth
Supplemental Indenture, whenever a payment, deposit or transfer is required to
be made under the Indenture in respect of the 2020 Senior Notes, the Company's
obligation to make such payment, deposit or transfer shall not be satisfied or
discharged unless and until such payment, deposit or transfer shall be made in
the Foreign Currency in which the 2020 Senior Notes are then payable including,
without limitation, principal (whether at the Stated Maturity of the 2020 Senior
Notes, upon redemption or otherwise) of, premium, if any, and interest on, and
Additional Amounts, if any, in respect of any 2020 Senior Note.

SECTION 2.03. Defeasance and Covenant Defeasance.

      (a) Without limiting the provisions of Section 2.02 of this Fourteenth
Supplemental Indenture, but subject to the provisions of subsection (b) of this
Section 2.03, all deposits, if any, of money made under Articles XI
(Satisfaction and Discharge) and XIII (Defeasance and Covenant Defeasance) of
the Original Indenture shall be made by the Company in the Foreign Currency in
which the 2020 Senior Notes are then payable.

      (b) If, after a deposit referred to in Article XI or Section 13.04(1) of
the Original Indenture has been made in respect of the 2020 Senior Notes, a
Conversion Event occurs in respect of the Foreign Currency in which the deposit
pursuant to Article XI or Section 13.04(1) has been made, the indebtedness
represented by the 2020 Senior Notes shall be deemed to have been, and will be,
fully satisfied and discharged through the payment of the principal of, premium,
if any, and interest, if any, on, and Additional Amounts, if any, with respect
to, the 2020 Senior Notes as the same becomes due out of the proceeds yielded by
converting the amount or other property deposited in respect of the 2020 Senior
Notes into the Foreign Currency in which the 2020 Senior Notes become payable as
a result of such Conversion Event based on the applicable market exchange rate
for such Foreign Currency in effect (as nearly as feasible) at the time of such
Conversion Event.

      (c) The term "Government Obligations", when used with respect to the 2020
Senior Notes shall mean securities that are (i) direct obligations of the
government or governments or confederation or association of governments which
issued the Foreign Currency in which the principal of or any premium or interest
on the 2020 Senior Notes or any Additional Amounts in respect thereof shall be
payable, in each case for the payment or payments of which the full faith and
credit of such government or governments or confederation or association of
governments are pledged or (ii) obligations of a Person controlled or supervised
by and acting as an agency or instrumentality of such government or governments
or confederation or association of governments, in each case the timely payment
or payments of which are unconditionally guaranteed as a full faith and credit
obligation by such government or governments or confederation or association of
governments, and which, in the case of (i) or (ii), are not callable or
redeemable at the option of the issuer or issuers thereof, and shall also
include a depository receipt issued by a bank (as defined in Section 3(a)(2) of
the Securities Act of 1933, as amended) as custodian with respect to any such
Government Obligation or a specific payment of principal of, or interest on, or
other amount with respect to any such Government Obligation held by such
custodian for the account of the holder of a depository receipt; provided,
however, that (except as

                                       8

required by law) such custodian is not authorized to make any deduction from the
amount payable to the holder of such depository receipt from any amount received
by the custodian in respect of the Government Obligation or the specific payment
of principal of, or interest on or other amount with respect to the Government
Obligation evidenced by such depository receipt.

SECTION 2.04. Distributions.

      Whenever the Indenture provides for distributions to holders of
Securities, any amount in respect of any 2020 Senior Note denominated in a
Foreign Currency shall be treated for any such distribution as the equivalent in
Dollars determined as of the record date with respect to such 2020 Senior Notes
for such distribution (or if there is no applicable record date, such other date
reasonably proximate to the date of such distribution) by using the rate of
exchange quoted by Reuters (or its successor) at 10:00 a.m. (New York time) for
spot purchases of Dollars with the Foreign Currency, including any premiums
payable and costs of exchange. If Reuters (or its successor) ceases or is
otherwise unable to provide quotes for spot purchases of Dollars with the
Foreign Currency, the Trustee shall refer to the rate of exchange quoted by
another foreign exchange quoting service of substantially similar international
reputation and widely used by international foreign exchange brokers to
determine the applicable market exchange rates between the Dollar and the
Foreign Currency.

SECTION 2.05. Undertakings.

      (a) If the 2020 Senior Notes are listed on the Irish Stock Exchange and
such stock exchange shall so require, the Company will maintain a Paying Agent
for the 2020 Senior Notes in Dublin, Ireland, or any other required city located
in Ireland, for so long as the 2020 Senior Notes are listed on such exchange
and, subject to any laws or regulations applicable thereto, in a Place of
Payment for the 2020 Senior Notes located in Ireland, an office for registration
of transfer or exchange of the 2020 Senior Notes.

      (b) J.P. Morgan Trust Company, National Association is hereby appointed
the Calculation Agent in respect of the 2020 Senior Notes. As long as the 2020
Senior Notes are subject to redemption at the option of the Company pursuant to
Section 6 of the Form of 2020 Senior Note, the Company shall maintain a
Calculation Agent for the 2020 Senior Notes to perform the duties described in
said Section 6.

SECTION 2.06. Conversion Event.

      Subject to Section 2.03(b) of this Fourteenth Supplemental Indenture, if
at any time prior to the maturity of the 2020 Senior Notes, there is a
Conversion Event such that the United Kingdom adopts the euro as its lawful
currency in accordance with the Treaty establishing the European Communities, as
amended from time to time, the 2020 Senior Notes shall be re-denominated into
euro, the regulations of the European Commission relating to the euro shall
apply to the 2020 Senior Notes and the references in, and obligations arising
under, the Indenture expressed in Pounds Sterling shall be translated into euro
at the official rate of exchange recognized for that purpose by the Bank of
England on the date of such Conversion Event or such other date reasonably
proximate to such Conversion Event.

                                       9

ARTICLE III

                     MATTERS RELATING TO ADDITIONAL AMOUNTS

SECTION 3.01. Additional Amounts.

      For the purposes of the Original Indenture, as supplemented by this
Fourteenth Supplemental Indenture, all references in the Indenture and the 2020
Senior Notes to principal, premium, if any, or interest payable on the 2020
Senior Notes shall be deemed to include references to Additional Amounts, if
any, payable in respect of the 2020 Senior Notes.

                                   ARTICLE IV

                            MISCELLANEOUS PROVISIONS

SECTION 4.01. Recitals by the Company.

      The recitals in this Fourteenth Supplemental Indenture are made by the
Company only and not by the Trustee, and all of the provisions contained in the
Original Indenture in respect of the rights, privileges, immunities, powers and
duties of the Trustee shall be applicable in respect of the 2020 Senior Notes
and of this Fourteenth Supplemental Indenture as fully and with like effect as
if set forth herein in full.

SECTION 4.02. Ratification and Incorporation of Original Indenture.

      As supplemented hereby, the Original Indenture is in all respects ratified
and confirmed, and the Original Indenture and this Fourteenth Supplemental
Indenture shall be read, taken and construed as one and the same instrument.

SECTION 4.03. Executed in Counterparts.

      This Fourteenth Supplemental Indenture may be simultaneously executed in
several counterparts, each of which shall be deemed to be an original, and such
counterparts shall together constitute but one and the same instrument.

                                       10

IN WITNESS WHEREOF, each party hereto has caused this instrument to be
signed in its name and behalf by its duly authorized officers, all as of the day
and year first above written.

                                METLIFE, INC.

                                By: /s/ Anthony J. Williamson
                                   --------------------------------------------
                                   Name:  Anthony J. Williamson
                                   Title:  Senior Vice President and Treasurer

                                J.P. MORGAN TRUST COMPANY,
                                   NATIONAL ASSOCIATION, as Trustee

                                By: /s/ Albert P. Mari, Jr.
                                   --------------------------------------------
                                   Name:   Albert P. Mari, Jr.
                                   Title:  Vice President

                                   11

EXHIBIT A

                   FORM OF 5.25% SENIOR NOTE DUE JUNE 29, 2020

      THIS NOTE IS A GLOBAL SECURITY WITHIN THE MEANING OF THE ORIGINAL
INDENTURE HEREINAFTER REFERRED TO. UNLESS THIS CERTIFICATE IS PRESENTED BY AN
AUTHORIZED REPRESENTATIVE OF CLEARSTREAM BANKING, SOCIETE ANONYME LUXEMBOURG
("CLEARSTREAM") OR EUROCLEAR BANK S.A./N.V. ("EUROCLEAR") TO METLIFE, INC. OR
ITS AGENT FOR REGISTRATION OF TRANSFER, EXCHANGE OR PAYMENT, AND ANY CERTIFICATE
ISSUED IS REGISTERED IN THE NAME OF CHASE NOMINEES LIMITED, AS NOMINEE OF THE
COMMON DEPOSITARY, JPMORGAN CHASE BANK, N.A., LONDON BRANCH (THE "COMMON
DEPOSITARY") OR IN SUCH OTHER NAME AS IS REQUESTED BY AN AUTHORIZED
REPRESENTATIVE OF CLEARSTREAM OR EUROCLEAR (AND ANY PAYMENT IS MADE TO CHASE
NOMINEES LIMITED OR TO SUCH OTHER ENTITY AS IS REQUESTED BY AN AUTHORIZED
REPRESENTATIVE OF CLEARSTREAM OR EUROCLEAR), ANY TRANSFER, PLEDGE OR OTHER USE
HEREOF FOR VALUE OR OTHERWISE BY OR TO ANY PERSON IS WRONGFUL INASMUCH AS THE
REGISTERED OWNER HEREOF, CHASE NOMINEES LIMITED, HAS AN INTEREST HEREIN.

      EXCEPT AS OTHERWISE PROVIDED IN SECTION 2.11 OF THE ORIGINAL INDENTURE (AS
DEFINED HEREIN) (AND AS IF ALL REFERENCES TO "DEPOSITARY" IN SAID SECTION 2.11
OF THE ORIGINAL INDENTURE WERE REFERENCES TO "COMMON DEPOSITARY"), THIS NOTE MAY
BE TRANSFERRED IN WHOLE, BUT NOT IN PART, ONLY TO THE COMMON DEPOSITARY OR ITS
NOMINEE OR TO A SUCCESSOR DEPOSITARY OR TO A NOMINEE OF SUCH SUCCESSOR
DEPOSITARY.

                                      A-1

No.____                                                   ISIN No.: XSO223386417
                                                          Common Code: 022338641

                                  METLIFE, INC.

                       5.25% Senior Note Due June 29, 2020

Principal Amount:               GBP_____________

Regular Record Date:            With respect to each Interest Payment Date,
                                the close of business on the preceding June 15
                                (whether or not a Business Day)

Original Issue Date:            June 29, 2005

Stated Maturity:                June 29, 2020

Interest Payment Date:          June 29, commencing June 29, 2006

Interest Rate:                  5.25% per year

Authorized Denomination         GBP50,000 and whole multiples of GBP1,000 in
                                excess of GBP50,000

      MetLife, Inc., a Delaware corporation (the "Company," which term includes
any successor corporation under the Indenture referred to on the reverse
hereof), for value received, hereby promises to pay to _____________________, or
registered assigns, the principal sum of __________________ POUNDS STERLING
(GBP_________) on the Stated Maturity shown above, and to pay interest thereon
from the Original Issue Date shown above, or from the most recent Interest
Payment Date to which interest has been paid or duly provided for, annually in
arrears on each Interest Payment Date as specified above, commencing on June 29,
2006, and on the Stated Maturity at the rate per year shown above until the
principal hereof is paid or made available for payment and on any overdue
principal and on any overdue installment of interest at such rate to the extent
permitted by law. The interest so payable, and punctually paid or duly provided
for, on any Interest Payment Date (other than an Interest Payment Date that is
the Stated Maturity, an Optional Redemption Date or a Tax Redemption Date) will,
as provided in the Indenture, be paid to the Person in whose name this Note is
registered at the close of business on the Regular Record Date as specified
above next preceding such Interest Payment Date, provided that any interest
payable at Stated Maturity or on an Optional Redemption Date or a Tax Redemption
Date will be paid to the Person to whom principal is payable. Any such interest
that is not so punctually paid or duly provided for will forthwith cease to be
payable to the holders on such Regular Record Date and may be paid as provided
in Section 2.03 of the Original Indenture.

         Payments of interest on this Note will include interest accrued to but
excluding the respective Interest Payment Dates. Interest payments for this Note
shall be computed and paid on

                                      A-2

an Actual/Actual (ISMA) day fraction basis. Actual/Actual (ISMA) means that
interest on this Note shall be calculated on the basis of (a) the actual number
of days in the period from and including the last Interest Payment Date (or the
Original Issue Date with respect to the first Interest Payment Date) to but
excluding the date on which the Interest Payment Date falls divided by (b) the
product of (x) the actual number of days in the period from and including the
last Interest Payment Date (or the Original Issue Date with respect to the first
Interest Payment Date) to but excluding the date on which the Interest Payment
Date falls and (y) the number of Interest Payment Dates per year. In the event
that any date on which interest is payable on this Note is not a Business Day,
then payment of the interest payable on such date will be made on the next
succeeding day that is a Business Day (and without any interest or other payment
in respect of any such delay), except that, if such Business Day is in the next
succeeding calendar year, payment shall be made on the immediately preceding
Business Day, in each case with the same force and effect as if made on the date
the payment was originally payable. The term "Business Day" means any day, other
than a day on which federal or state banking institutions in London or the
Borough of Manhattan, The City of New York, are authorized or obligated by law,
executive order or regulation to close.

      Payment of the principal (and Optional Redemption Price or Tax Redemption
Price, if any) of, premium, if any, and interest on and Additional Amounts, if
any, in respect of this Note due at the Stated Maturity or earlier redemption of
this Note shall be made upon surrender of this Note at the office or agency of
any of the U.S. Paying Agent (as defined herein) in the Borough of Manhattan,
The City of New York, the London Paying Agent (as defined herein) in London and,
for so long as the Notes are listed on the Irish Stock Exchange, the Irish
Paying Agent (as defined herein) in Dublin, Ireland. The principal of, premium,
if any, and interest on this Note shall be paid in such coin or currency of the
United Kingdom as at the time of payment is legal tender for payment of public
and private debts. Payment of interest (including interest and any Additional
Amounts payable with respect to interest on an Interest Payment Date) will be
made, subject to such surrender where applicable, at the option of the Company,
(i) by check mailed to the address of the Person entitled thereto as such
address shall appear in the Security Register or (ii) by wire transfer at such
place and to such account at a banking institution in the United Kingdom as may
be designated in writing to the Trustee at least 10 days prior to the date for
payment by the Person entitled thereto.

      The 2020 Senior Notes (as defined on the reverse hereof) will be unsecured
obligations of the Company and will rank equally in right of payment with all of
the other unsecured, unsubordinated indebtedness of the Company from time to
time outstanding. The 2020 Senior Notes will rank senior to any subordinated
indebtedness of the Company.

      REFERENCE IS HEREBY MADE TO THE FURTHER PROVISIONS OF THIS NOTE SET FORTH
ON THE REVERSE HEREOF, WHICH FURTHER PROVISIONS SHALL FOR ALL PURPOSES HAVE THE
SAME EFFECT AS IF SET FORTH AT THIS PLACE.

      Unless the certificate of authentication hereon has been executed by the
Trustee by manual signature, this Note shall not be entitled to any benefit
under the Indenture or be valid or obligatory for any purpose.

                                      A-3

IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the Company has caused this instrument to be duly
executed under its corporate seal.

                                            METLIFE, INC.

                                            By:_________________________________
                                               Name:
                                               Title:

Attest:
___________________________________
Name:
Title:

                             [Seal of MetLife, Inc.]

                                            Dated:

                                      A-4

(Reverse Side of Note)

      1. This Note is one of a duly authorized issue of senior notes of the
Company (the "Securities") issued and issuable in one or more series under an
Indenture dated as of November 9, 2001 (the "Original Indenture"), as
supplemented by the Fourteenth Supplemental Indenture dated as of June 29, 2005
(the "Fourteenth Supplemental Indenture," and together with the Original
Indenture, the "Indenture"), between the Company and J.P. Morgan Trust Company,
National Association (as successor to Bank One Trust Company, N.A.), as Trustee
(the "Trustee," which term includes any successor trustee under the Indenture),
to which Indenture and all indentures incidental thereto reference is hereby
made for a statement of the respective rights, limitations of rights, duties and
immunities thereunder of the Company, the Trustee and the holders of the
Securities issued thereunder and of the terms upon which said Securities are,
and are to be, authenticated and delivered. This Note is one of the series
designated on the face hereof as 5.25% Senior Notes due June 29, 2020 (the "2020
Senior Notes"), initially limited in aggregate principal amount to
GBP400,000,000; provided, however, that (subject to the provisions of the
Fourteenth Supplemental Indenture) the aggregate principal amount of the 2020
Senior Notes may be increased in the future, without the consent of the holders
of the 2020 Senior Notes, on the same terms and with the same ISIN number and
Common Code as the 2020 Senior Notes. Capitalized terms used herein for which no
definition is provided herein shall have the meanings set forth in the
Indenture.

      2. This Note is exchangeable in whole or from time to time in part for
2020 Senior Notes in definitive registered form only as provided herein and in
the Indenture. If (i) at any time the Common Depositary notifies the Company
that it is unwilling or unable to continue as Common Depositary for this Note,
and the Company does not appoint a successor Common Depositary within 90 days
after the Company receives such notice or becomes aware of such condition, as
the case may be, or (ii) the Company in its sole discretion determines that this
Note shall be exchangeable for 2020 Senior Notes in definitive registered form
and executes and delivers to the Security Registrar a written order of the
Company providing that this Note shall be so exchangeable, this Note shall be
exchangeable for 2020 Senior Notes in definitive registered form, provided that
the definitive 2020 Senior Notes so issued in exchange for this Note shall be in
denominations of GBP50,000 and any whole multiples of GBP1,000 in excess of
GBP50,000, without coupons, and be of like aggregate principal amount and tenor
as the portion of this Note to be exchanged. Except as provided above, owners of
beneficial interests in this Note will not be entitled to have 2020 Senior Notes
registered in their names, will not receive or be entitled to physical delivery
of 2020 Senior Notes in definitive registered form and will not be considered
the holders thereof for any purpose under the Indenture. Neither the Company,
the Trustee, any Paying Agent nor the Security Registrar shall have any
responsibility or liability for any aspect of records relating to or payments
made on account of beneficial ownership interests in this Note, or for
maintaining, supervising or reviewing any records relating to such beneficial
ownership interests.

      3. If an Event of Default with respect to the 2020 Senior Notes shall
occur and be continuing, the principal of the 2020 Senior Notes may be declared
due and payable in the manner, with the effect and subject to the conditions
provided in the Indenture.

                                      A-5

4. The Indenture permits, with certain exceptions as therein provided, the
amendment thereof and the modification of the rights and obligations of the
Company and the rights of the holders of the Securities under the Indenture at
any time by the Company and the Trustee with the consent of the holders of not
less than a majority in aggregate principal amount of the Securities at the time
Outstanding of each series to be affected. The Indenture also contains
provisions permitting the holders of specified percentages in principal amount
of the Securities of each series at the time Outstanding, on behalf of the
holders of all Securities of such series, to waive compliance by the Company
with certain provisions of the Indenture and certain past defaults under the
Indenture and their consequences. Any such consent or waiver by the holder of
this Note shall be conclusive and binding upon such holder and upon all future
holders of this Note and of any 2020 Senior Note issued upon the registration of
transfer hereof or in exchange hereof or in lieu hereof, whether or not notation
of such consent or waiver is made upon this Note.

      5. The Indenture contains provisions for defeasance at any time of (a) the
entire indebtedness of the Company pursuant to this Note and (b) restrictive
covenants and the related Events of Default, upon compliance by the Company with
certain conditions set forth therein, which provisions apply to this Note.

      6. (a) The 2020 Senior Notes will be redeemable, at the option of the
Company, in whole at any time or in part from time to time (any such date fixed
for redemption, an "Optional Redemption Date"), at a redemption price (the
"Optional Redemption Price") equal to the greater of (i) 100% of the principal
amount of the 2020 Senior Notes to be redeemed and (ii) as determined by the
Calculation Agent, the price at which the yield on the Outstanding principal
amount of the 2020 Senior Notes on the Reference Date is equal to the yield on
the Benchmark Gilt as of that date as determined by reference to the
middle-market price on the Benchmark Gilt at 3:00 p.m., London time, on that
date, plus, in each case, accrued and unpaid interest on the 2020 Senior Notes
to be redeemed to, but excluding, the Optional Redemption Date.

      "Benchmark Gilt" means the 8.00% Treasury Stock due June 7, 2021 or such
other U.K. government stock as the Calculation Agent, with the advice of three
brokers and/or U.K. gilt-edged market makers or three other persons operating in
the U.K. gilt-edged market that may be chosen by the Calculation Agent, may
determine from time to time to be the most appropriate benchmark U.K. government
stock for the 2020 Senior Notes.

      "Calculation Agent" means J.P. Morgan Trust Company, National Association,
or any successor entity.

      "Reference Date" means the date that is the first dealing day in London
prior to the publication of the notice of redemption referred to in Section 6(b)
below.

      (b) Not less than 30 days but not more than 90 days before the Optional
Redemption Date, notice of any redemption will be mailed to each holder of the
2020 Senior Notes to be redeemed and published as provided in Section 12 hereof.

      (c) If less than all the 2020 Senior Notes at the time Outstanding are to
be redeemed, the Trustee will select the 2020 Senior Notes or portions of 2020
Senior Notes to be redeemed in

                                      A-6

compliance with the rules and requirements of the Irish Stock Exchange or the
principal securities exchange, if any, on which the 2020 Senior Notes are
listed, or, if the 2020 Senior Notes are not so listed or that exchange
prescribes no method of selection, by such method as the Trustee deems fair and
appropriate. If this Note is to be redeemed in part only, the notice of
redemption relating to this Note will state the portion of the principal amount
hereof to be redeemed. A new 2020 Senior Note in principal amount equal to the
unredeemed portion hereof shall be issued and delivered to the Common
Depositary, or its nominee, upon cancellation of this Note. The Trustee may
select for redemption 2020 Senior Notes and portions of 2020 Senior Notes in
amounts of GBP50,000 and whole multiples of GBP1,000 in excess of GBP50,000.

      (d) If notice of redemption has been given pursuant to Section 12 hereof,
the 2020 Senior Notes or portions thereof to be redeemed shall, on the Optional
Redemption Date, become due and payable at the Optional Redemption Price, and
from and after such date, unless the Company shall default in the payment of the
Optional Redemption Price and accrued but unpaid interest, if any, such 2020
Senior Notes or portions thereof shall cease to bear interest. Upon surrender of
the 2020 Senior Notes for redemption in accordance with such notice, the 2020
Senior Notes or portions thereof called for redemption shall be paid by the
Company at the Optional Redemption Price, together with accrued but unpaid
interest, if any, to the Optional Redemption Date.

      (e) On or before the opening of business on any Optional Redemption Date,
the Company shall deposit with the Trustee or with the U.S. Paying Agent (as
defined herein), the London Paying Agent (as defined herein) or the Irish Paying
Agent (as defined herein) or, if the Company is acting as its own paying agent,
segregate and hold in trust as provided in the Original Indenture, an amount of
money sufficient to pay the Optional Redemption Price of, and accrued but unpaid
interest on, the 2020 Senior Notes or portions thereof to be redeemed on the
Redemption Date.

      7. (a) The Company shall pay to the beneficial owner of this Note who is a
Non-U.S. Person (as defined below) such additional amounts as may be necessary
so that every net payment of principal of, premium, if any, and interest on this
Note to such beneficial owner, after deduction or withholding for or on account
of any present or future tax, assessment or other governmental charge imposed
upon such beneficial owner by the United States of America or any taxing
authority thereof or therein, will not be less than the amount provided in this
Note to be then due and payable (such amounts, the "Additional Amounts");
provided, however, that the Company shall not be required to make any payment of
Additional Amounts for or on account of:

            (i) any tax, assessment or other governmental charge that would not
      have been imposed but for (A) the existence of any present or former
      connection between such beneficial owner, or between a fiduciary, settlor,
      beneficiary of, member or shareholder of, or possessor of a power over,
      such beneficial owner, if such beneficial owner is an estate, trust,
      partnership or corporation, and the United States including, without
      limitation, such beneficial owner, or such fiduciary, settlor,
      beneficiary, member, shareholder or possessor, being or having been a
      citizen or resident of the United States of America or treated as a
      resident thereof or being or having been engaged in trade or business or
      present in the United States of America, or (B) the presentation of this
      Note for payment on a date more

                                      A-7

than 30 days after the later of (x) the date on which such payment becomes
      due and payable and (y) the date on which payment thereof is duly provided
      for;

            (ii) any estate, inheritance, gift, sales, transfer, excise,
      personal property or similar tax, assessment or other governmental charge;

            (iii) any tax, assessment or other governmental charge imposed by
      reason of such beneficial owner's past or present status as a passive
      foreign investment company, a controlled foreign corporation, a personal
      holding company or foreign personal holding company with respect to the
      United States of America, or as a corporation which accumulates earnings
      to avoid United States federal income tax;

            (iv) any tax, assessment or other governmental charge which is
      payable otherwise than by withholding from payment of principal of or
      interest on this Note;

            (v) any tax, assessment or other governmental charge required to be
      withheld by any paying agent from any payment of principal of or interest
      on this Note if that payment can be made without withholding by any other
      paying agent;

            (vi) any tax, assessment or other governmental charge which would
      not have been imposed but for the failure to comply with certification,
      information, documentation or other reporting requirements concerning the
      nationality, residence, identity or connections with the United States of
      America of the beneficial owner or any holder of this Note, if such
      compliance is required by statute or by regulation of the U.S. Treasury
      Department as a precondition to relief or exemption from such tax,
      assessment or other governmental charge;

            (vii) any tax, assessment or other governmental charge imposed on
      interest received by (A) a 10% shareholder (as defined in Section
      871(h)(3)(B) of the U.S. Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended (the
      "Code"), and the regulations that may be promulgated thereunder) of the
      Company or (B) a controlled foreign corporation with respect to the
      Company within the meaning of the Code;

            (viii) any withholding or deduction that is imposed on a payment to
      an individual and is required to be made pursuant to that European Union
      Directive relating to the taxation of savings adopted on June 3, 2003 by
      the European Union's Economic and Financial Affairs Council, or any law
      implementing or complying with, or introduced in order to conform to, such
      Directive; or

            (ix) any combination of items (i), (ii), (iii), (iv), (v), (vi),
      (vii) and (viii) in this Section 7(a);

nor shall any Additional Amounts be paid to any beneficial owner or holder of
this Note who is a fiduciary or partnership to the extent that a beneficiary or
settlor with respect to that fiduciary, or a member of such partnership or a
beneficial owner thereof would not have been entitled to the payment of those
Additional Amounts had that beneficiary, settlor, member or beneficial owner
been the beneficial owner of this Note.

                                      A-8

"Non-U.S. Person" means any corporation, partnership, individual or
fiduciary that is, as to the United States of America, a foreign corporation, a
non-resident alien individual who has not made a valid election to be treated as
a United States resident, a non-resident fiduciary of a foreign estate or trust,
or a foreign partnership one or more of the members of which is, as to the
United States of America, a foreign corporation, a non-resident alien individual
or a non-resident fiduciary of a foreign estate or trust.

      (b) The 2020 Senior Notes may be redeemed at the option of the Company in
whole, but not in part, on a date (such date, the "Tax Redemption Date") to be
fixed by the Company upon at least 30 days, but not more than 90 days' notice,
at a redemption price equal to 100% of the principal amount of the 2020 Senior
Notes (the "Tax Redemption Price") plus accrued but unpaid interest, if any,
thereon, if the Company determines that as a result of any change in or
amendment to the laws, treaties, regulations or rulings of the United States of
America or any political subdivision or taxing authority thereof, or any
proposed change in such laws, treaties, regulations or rulings, or any change in
the official application, enforcement or interpretation of such laws, treaties,
regulations or rulings, including a holding by a court of competent jurisdiction
in the United States of America, or any other action (except for an action
predicated on law generally known on or before June 22, 2005 but excluding
proposals before the U.S. Congress before such date) taken by any taxing
authority or a court of competent jurisdiction in the United States of America,
or the official proposal of any such action, whether or not such action or
proposal was taken or made with respect to the Company, (1) the Company has or
will become obligated to pay Additional Amounts or (2) there is a substantial
possibility that the Company will be required to pay such Additional Amounts.

      Prior to the publication of any notice of redemption pursuant to Section
12 hereof, the Company shall deliver to the Trustee (1) an Officers' Certificate
stating that the Company is entitled to effect such redemption and setting forth
a statement of facts showing that the conditions precedent to the rights of the
Company to so redeem have occurred and (2) an Opinion of Counsel (who shall not
be an employee of the Company) to such effect based on such statement of facts.

      If the Company elects to redeem the 2020 Senior Notes pursuant to this
Section 7(b), then it shall give notice to the holders pursuant to Section 12
hereof.

      On or before the opening of business on any Tax Redemption Date, the
Company shall deposit with the Trustee or with the U.S. Paying Agent, London
Paying Agent or the Irish Paying Agent or, if the Company is acting as its own
paying agent, segregate and hold in trust as provided in the Original Indenture,
an amount of money sufficient to pay the Tax Redemption Price of, and accrued
but unpaid interest on, the 2020 Senior Notes to be redeemed on such Tax
Redemption Date.

      The notice of redemption having been given as specified above, the 2020
Senior Notes shall, on the Tax Redemption Date, become due and payable at the
Tax Redemption Price, and from and after such date, unless the Company shall
default in the payment of the Tax Redemption Price and accrued but unpaid
interest, if any, the 2020 Senior Notes shall cease to bear interest. Upon
surrender of the 2020 Senior Notes for redemption in accordance with such

                                      A-9

notice, the Notes shall be paid by the Company at the Tax Redemption Price,
together with accrued but unpaid interest, if any, to the Tax Redemption Date.

      8. If, prior to the maturity of the 2020 Senior Notes, the United Kingdom
adopts the euro as its lawful currency in accordance with the Treaty
establishing the European Communities, as amended from time to time, the 2020
Senior Notes will be re-denominated into euro, and the regulations of the
European Commission relating to the euro shall apply to the 2020 Senior Notes.

      9. No reference herein to the Indenture and no provision of this Note or
of the Indenture shall alter or impair the obligation of the Company, which is
absolute and unconditional, to pay the principal of, premium, if any, and
interest on this Note at the time, place and rate, and in the coin or currency,
herein prescribed.

      10. (a) As provided herein and in the Indenture and subject to certain
limitations herein and therein set forth, the transfer of this Note is
registrable in the Security Register, upon surrender of this Note for
registration of transfer either at the office or agency to be designated and
maintained by the Company for such purpose in the Borough of Manhattan, The City
of New York or in London or, so long as the Notes are listed on the Irish Stock
Exchange, in Dublin, Ireland, or at any of such other offices or agencies as may
be designated and maintained by the Company for such purpose pursuant to the
provisions of the Indenture, duly endorsed by, or accompanied by a written
instrument of transfer in form satisfactory to the Company or the Security
Registrar and duly executed by, the holder hereof or his attorney duly
authorized in writing, and thereupon one or more new 2020 Senior Notes, of
authorized denominations and of like tenor and for the same aggregate principal
amount, will be issued to the designated transferee or transferees. No service
charge shall be made for any such registration of transfer, but the Company will
require payment of a sum sufficient to cover any tax or other governmental
charge payable in connection therewith.

      (b) Prior to due presentment of this Note for registration of transfer,
the Company, the Trustee, and any agent of the Company or of the Trustee may
deem and treat the Person in whose name this Note is registered as the absolute
owner of this Note (whether or not the 2020 Senior Notes shall be overdue and
notwithstanding any notation of ownership or other writing hereon made by anyone
other than the Security Registrar), for the purpose of receiving payments
hereon, or on account hereof, and for all other purposes, and neither the
Company nor the Trustee nor any agent of the Company or of the Trustee shall be
affected by any notice to the contrary. Except as provided in Section 1.03(a) of
the Fourteenth Supplemental Indenture, all payments of the principal of,
premium, if any, and interest on this Note made to or upon the order of the
registered holder hereof shall, to the extent of the amount or amounts so paid,
effectually satisfy and discharge liability for moneys payable on this Note.

      (c) The 2020 Senior Notes are issuable only in registered form without
coupons in denominations of GBP50,000 and whole multiples of GBP1,000 in excess
of GBP50,000. As provided in the Indenture and subject to certain limitations
therein set forth, the 2020 Senior Notes are exchangeable for a like aggregate
principal amount of 2020 Senior Notes of a different authorized denomination, as
requested by the holder surrendering the same upon surrender of the 2020 Senior
Note or 2020 Senior Notes to be exchanged at the office or agency of the
Company.

                                      A-10

(d) Notwithstanding the preceding paragraphs of this Section 10, any
registration of transfer or exchange of a Global Note shall be subject to the
terms of the legend appearing on the initial page thereof.

      11. J.P. Morgan Trust Company, National Association is hereby appointed
the registrar for the purpose of registering the 2020 Senior Notes and transfers
and exchanges of the 2020 Senior Notes pursuant to the Indenture and this Note
(the "Security Registrar"), paying agent pursuant to Section 4.03 of the
Original Indenture (the "U.S. Paying Agent") and transfer agent (the "U.S.
Transfer Agent") with respect to the 2020 Senior Notes in the United States at
its offices in the Borough of Manhattan, The City of New York.

      JPMorgan Chase Bank, N.A., London branch is hereby appointed paying agent
pursuant to Section 4.03 of the Original Indenture (the "London Paying Agent")
and transfer agent (the "London Transfer Agent") with respect to the 2020 Senior
Notes in the United Kingdom at its offices in London.

      J.P. Morgan Bank (Ireland) plc has been appointed, in connection with the
listing of the 2020 Senior Notes on the Irish Stock Exchange, the paying agent
pursuant to Section 4.03 of the Original Indenture (the "Irish Paying Agent"),
and the transfer agent (the "Irish Transfer Agent") with respect to the 2020
Senior Notes in Ireland.

      If for any reason J.P. Morgan Bank (Ireland) plc shall not continue as
Irish Paying Agent or Irish Transfer Agent and the 2020 Senior Notes remain
listed on the Irish Stock Exchange, the Company shall appoint a substitute Irish
Paying Agent or Irish Transfer Agent, as the case may be, with an office in
Ireland, in accordance with the rules then in effect of the Irish Stock Exchange
and the provisions of the Indenture, including Section 2.05 of the Fourteenth
Supplemental Indenture, and the 2020 Senior Notes. Following the appointment of
the substitute Irish Paying Agent or Irish Transfer Agent, as the case may be,
the Company shall give the holders of the 2020 Senior Notes notice of such
appointment pursuant to Section 12 hereof.

      12. If the Company is required to give notice to the holders of the 2020
Senior Notes pursuant to the terms of the Indenture, then it shall do so by the
means and in the manner set forth in the Original Indenture.

      In addition, the Trustee shall publish notices regarding the 2020 Senior
Notes in a daily newspaper of general circulation in The City of New York and in
London and, for so long as the 2020 Senior Notes are listed on the Irish Stock
Exchange and the rules of such exchange require notice by publication, in a
daily newspaper of general circulation in Dublin, Ireland. Initially, such
publication shall be made in The City of New York in The Wall Street Journal, in
London in the Financial Times and in Ireland in the Irish Times. If publication
in Dublin, Ireland is not practical, the Trustee will publish notices in an
English language newspaper of general circulation elsewhere in Europe. Any such
notice shall be deemed to have been given on the date of publication or, if
published more than once, on the date of the first publication. If publication
as described above becomes impossible, the Trustee may publish sufficient notice
by alternative means that approximate the terms and conditions described in this
Section 12.

                                      A-11

13. No recourse shall be had for payment of the principal of, premium, if
any, or interest on this Note, or for any claim based hereon, or otherwise in
respect hereof, or based on or in respect of the Indenture, against any
incorporator, stockholder, officer or director, past, present or future, as
such, of the Company or of any predecessor or successor corporation, whether by
virtue of any constitution, statute or rule of law, or by the enforcement of any
assessment or penalty or otherwise, all such liability being, by the acceptance
hereof and as part of the consideration for the issuance hereof, expressly
waived and released.

      14. Unless the certificate of authentication hereon has been executed by
the Trustee by manual signature, this Note shall not be entitled to any benefit
under the Indenture or be valid or obligatory for any purpose.

      15. This Note shall be governed by, and construed in accordance with, the
internal laws of the State of New York.

                                      A-12

ABBREVIATIONS

      The following abbreviations, when used in the inscription on the face of
this instrument, shall be construed as though they were written out in full
according to applicable laws or regulations:

TEN COM - as tenants in common       UNIF GIFT MIN ACT - Custodian under Uniform
                                     Gift to Minors Act

                                     _________________________________________
                                     (State)

TEN ENT  -as tenants by the entireties

JT TEN   -as joint tenants with right of
          survivorship and not as tenants
          in common

                    Additional abbreviations may also be used
                          though not on the above list.

FOR VALUE RECEIVED, the undersigned hereby sell(s) and transfer(s) unto

PLEASE PRINT OR TYPEWRITE NAME AND ADDRESS, INCLUDING POSTAL ZIP CODE OF
ASSIGNEE

________________________________________________________________________________

________________________________________________________________________________

________________________________________________________________________________
(please insert Social Security or other identifying number of assignee)

the within Note and all rights thereunder, hereby irrevocably constituting and
appointing

________________________________________________________________________________

________________________________________________________________________________

agent to transfer said Note on the books of the Company, with full power of
substitution in the premises.

Dated:__________________________             ___________________________________
                                             NOTICE: The signature to this
                                             assignment must correspond with the
                                             name as written upon the face of
                                             the within instrument in every
                                             particular without alteration or
                                             enlargement, or any change
                                             whatsoever.

                                      A-13

EXHIBIT B

                          CERTIFICATE OF AUTHENTICATION

      This is one of the 5.25% Senior Notes due June 29, 2020 referred to in the
within-mentioned Indenture.

                                       J.P.MORGAN TRUST COMPANY,
                                          NATIONAL ASSOCIATION, as Trustee

                                       By:______________________________________
                                                    Authorized Officer

</EX-4.14>

<EX-4.41.A>
 6
 y87657exv4w41wa.txt
 EX-4.41.A

EXHIBIT 4.41(a)

================================================================================

                                 METLIFE, INC.,
                                     Issuer

                                       and

                J.P. MORGAN TRUST COMPANY, NATIONAL ASSOCIATION,
                                     Trustee

                                    INDENTURE

                            Dated as of June 21, 2005

                          Subordinated Debt Securities

================================================================================

CROSS-REFERENCE TABLE(1)

----------------------
(1)   This Cross-Reference Table does not constitute part of the Indenture and
      shall not have any bearing on the interpretation of any of its terms or
      provisions.

TABLE OF CONTENTS(1)

---------------
(1)   This Table of Contents does not constitute part of the Indenture and shall
      not have any bearing upon the interpretation of any of its terms or
      provisions.

                                      -i-

TABLE OF CONTENTS
                                   (continued)

-ii-

TABLE OF CONTENTS
                                   (continued)

PAGE
                                                                                    
Section 7.03   Trustee Not Responsible for Recitals or Issuance or Securities......   35

Section 7.04   May Hold Securities.................................................   36

Section 7.05   Moneys Held in Trust................................................   36

Section 7.06   Compensation and Reimbursement......................................   36

Section 7.07   Reliance on Officers' Certificate...................................   37

Section 7.08   Disqualification; Conflicting Interests.............................   37

Section 7.09   Corporate Trustee Required; Eligibility.............................   37

Section 7.10   Resignation and Removal; Appointment of Successor...................   37

Section 7.11   Acceptance of Appointment By Successor..............................   39

Section 7.12   Merger, Conversion, Consolidation or Succession to Business.........   40

Section 7.13   Preferential Collection of Claims Against the Company...............   40

                                   ARTICLE VIII
                          CONCERNING THE SECURITYHOLDERS

Section 8.01   Evidence of Action by Securityholders...............................   40

Section 8.02   Proof of Execution by Securityholders...............................   41

Section 8.03   Who May be Deemed Owners............................................   41

Section 8.04   Certain Securities Owned by Company Disregarded.....................   41

Section 8.05   Actions Binding on Future Securityholders...........................   42

                                    ARTICLE IX
                              SUPPLEMENTAL INDENTURES

Section 9.01   Supplemental Indentures Without the Consent of Securityholders......   42

Section 9.02   Supplemental Indentures With Consent of Securityholders.............   44

Section 9.03   Effect of Supplemental Indentures...................................   45

Section 9.04   Securities Affected by Supplemental Indentures......................   45

Section 9.05   Execution of Supplemental Indentures................................   45

                                     ARTICLE X
               CONSOLIDATION, MERGER, CONVEYANCE, TRANSFER OR LEASE

Section 10.01  When the Company May Consolidate, Merge, Etc........................   46

-iii-

TABLE OF CONTENTS
                                   (continued)

-iv-

TABLE OF CONTENTS
                                   (continued)

-v-

INDENTURE, dated as of June 21, 2005, between MetLife, Inc., a Delaware
corporation (the "Company"), and J.P. Morgan Trust Company, National
Association, a national banking association, as trustee (the "Trustee"):

      WHEREAS, for its lawful corporate purposes, the Company has duly
authorized the execution and delivery of this Indenture to provide for the
issuance of unsecured subordinated debt securities, debentures, notes, bonds, or
other evidences of indebtedness (hereinafter referred to as the "Securities"),
in an unlimited aggregate principal amount to be issued from time to time in one
or more series, as provided in this Indenture, including, without limitation,
Securities to be issued and sold from time to time to one or more MetLife Trusts
(as defined herein);

      WHEREAS, to provide the terms and conditions upon which the Securities are
to be authenticated, issued and delivered, the Company has duly authorized the
execution of this Indenture; and

      WHEREAS, all things necessary to make this Indenture a valid agreement of
the Company, in accordance with its terms, have been done.

      NOW, THEREFORE, in consideration of the premises and the purchase of the
Securities by the holders thereof, it is mutually covenanted and agreed as
follows for the equal and ratable benefit of the holders of Securities:

                                   ARTICLE I

                                   DEFINITIONS

      Section 1.01 Definitions of Terms.

      The terms defined in this Section (except as in this Indenture otherwise
expressly provided or unless the context otherwise requires) for all purposes of
this Indenture and of any indenture supplemental hereto shall have the
respective meanings specified in this Section and shall include the plural as
well as the singular. All other terms used in this Indenture that are defined in
the Trust Indenture Act of 1939, as amended, or that are by reference in such
Act defined in the Securities Act of 1933, as amended (except as herein
otherwise expressly provided or unless the context otherwise requires), shall
have the meanings assigned to such terms in said Trust Indenture Act and in said
Securities Act as in force at the date of the execution of this instrument.

      "Affiliate" of any specified Person means any other Person, directly or
indirectly, controlling or controlled by or under direct or indirect common
control with such specified Person. When used with respect to any Person,
"control" means the power, directly or indirectly, to direct or cause the
direction of the management and policies of such Person, whether through the
ownership of voting securities, by contract or otherwise; and the terms
"controlling" and "controlled" and "under common control with" have meanings
correlative to the foregoing.

      "Authenticating Agent" means an authenticating agent with respect to all
or any of the series of Securities appointed with respect to all or any series
of the Securities by the Trustee pursuant to Section 2.10.

"Bankruptcy Law" means Title 11, U.S. Code, or any similar federal or
state bankruptcy, insolvency, reorganization or other law for the relief of
debtors.

      "Board of Directors" means the Board of Directors of the Company or any
duly authorized committee of such Board.

      "Board Resolution" means a copy of a resolution certified by the Secretary
or an Assistant Secretary of the Company to have been duly adopted by the Board
of Directors and to be in full force and effect on the date of such
certification.

      "Business Day" means, with respect to any series of Securities, any day
other than a day on which federal or state banking institutions in the Borough
of Manhattan, The City of New York, are authorized or obligated by law,
executive order or regulation to close.

      "Certificate" means a certificate signed by the principal executive
officer, the principal financial officer or the principal accounting officer of
the Company. The Certificate need not comply with the provisions of Section
14.07.

      "Company" means MetLife, Inc., a corporation duly organized and existing
under the laws of the State of Delaware, and, subject to the provisions of
Article Ten, shall also include its successors and assigns.

      "Commission" means the Securities and Exchange Commission, from time to
time constituted, created under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended
(the"Exchange Act"), or, if at any time after the execution of this instrument
such Commission is not existing and performing the duties now assigned to it
under the Trust Indenture Act, then the body performing such duties at such
time.

      "Common Securities" means undivided beneficial interests in the assets of
a MetLife Trust which rank pari passu with Preferred Securities issued by such
MetLife Trust; provided, however, that upon the occurrence of an Event of
Default, the rights of holders of Common Securities to payment in respect of
distributions and payments upon liquidation, redemption and otherwise are
subordinated to the rights of holders of Preferred Securities.

      "Common Securities Guarantee" means any guarantee agreement executed by
the Company with respect to the Common Securities issued by a MetLife Trust
pursuant to which the Company agrees to pay the guarantee payments under any
such guarantee agreement to the holders of such Common Securities.

      "Corporate Trust Office" means the office of the Trustee at which, at any
particular time, its corporate trust business shall be principally administered,
which office at the date hereof is located at J.P. Morgan Trust Company,
National Association, Worldwide Securities Services, 4 New York Plaza, 15th
Floor, New York, NY 10004.

      "Custodian" means any receiver, trustee, assignee, liquidator,
sequestrator, custodian or similar official under any Bankruptcy Law.

                                        2

"Declaration," with respect to a MetLife Trust, means the Amended and
Restated Declaration of Trust of such MetLife Trust.

      "Default" means any event, act or condition that with notice or lapse of
time, or both, would constitute an Event of Default.

      "Deferral Period," with respect to any series of Securities, means any
period during which the Company elects to extend the interest payment period on
such series of Securities pursuant to Section 4.01(b); provided that a Deferral
Period (or any extension thereof) may not extend beyond the Stated Maturity or
the Redemption Date of any Security of such series and must end on an Interest
Payment Date or, if the Securities are redeemed, on an Interest Payment Date or
the Redemption Date for such Securities.

      "Depositary" means, with respect to Securities of any series, for which
the Company shall determine that such Securities will be issued as a Global
Security, The Depository Trust Company, New York, New York, another clearing
agency, or any successor registered as a clearing agency under the Exchange Act,
or other applicable statute or regulation, which, in each case, shall be
designated by the Company pursuant to either Section 2.01 or Section 2.11.

      "Event of Default" means, with respect to Securities of a particular
series any event specified in Section 6.01, continued for the period of time, if
any, therein designated.

      "Global Security" means, with respect to any series of Securities, a
Security executed by the Company and delivered by the Trustee to the Depositary
or pursuant to the Depositary's instruction, all in accordance with the
Indenture, which shall be registered in the name of the Depositary or its
nominee.

      "Governmental Obligations" means securities that are (i) direct
obligations of the United States of America for the payment of which its full
faith and credit is pledged or (ii) obligations of a Person controlled or
supervised by and acting as an agency or instrumentality of the United States of
America, the payment of which is unconditionally guaranteed as a full faith and
credit obligation by the United States of America that, in either case, are not
callable or redeemable at the option of the issuer thereof, and shall also
include a depositary receipt issued by a bank (as defined in Section 3(a)(2) of
the Securities Act of 1933, as amended) as custodian with respect to any such
Governmental Obligation or a specific payment of principal of or interest on any
such Governmental Obligation held by such custodian for the account of the
holder of such depositary receipt; provided, however, that (except as required
by law) such custodian is not authorized to make any deduction from the amount
payable to the holder of such depositary receipt from any amount received by the
custodian in respect of the Governmental Obligation or the specific payment of
principal of or interest on the Governmental Obligation evidenced by such
depositary receipt.

      "herein,""hereof" and"hereunder," and other words of similar import, refer
to this Indenture as a whole and not to any particular Article, Section or other
subdivision.

      "Indebtedness" of any person means the principal of and premium, if any,
and interest due on indebtedness of such Person, whether outstanding on the date
of this Indenture or thereafter created, incurred or assumed, which is (a)
indebtedness for money borrowed, and (b)

                                        3

any amendments, renewals, extensions, modifications and refundings of any such
indebtedness. For the purposes of this definition, "indebtedness for money
borrowed" means (i) any obligation of, or any obligation guaranteed by, such
Person for the repayment of borrowed money, whether or not evidenced by bonds,
debentures, notes or other written instruments, (ii) any obligation of, or any
such obligation guaranteed by, such Person evidenced by bonds, debentures, notes
or similar written instruments, including obligations assumed or incurred in
connection with the acquisition of property, assets or businesses (provided,
however, that the deferred purchase price of any other business or property or
assets shall not be considered Indebtedness if the purchase price thereof is
payable in full within 90 days from the date on which such indebtedness was
created), and (iii) any obligations of such Person as lessee under leases
required to be capitalized on the balance sheet of the lessee under generally
accepted accounting principles and leases of property or assets made as part of
any sale and lease-back transaction to which such Person is a party.

      "Indenture" means this instrument as originally executed and as it may
from time to time be supplemented or amended by one or more indentures
supplemental hereto entered into pursuant to the applicable provisions hereof,
including, for all purposes of this instrument and any such supplemental
indenture, the provisions of the Trust Indenture Act that are deemed to be a
part of and govern this instrument and any such supplemental indenture,
respectively. The term "Indenture" shall also include the terms of particular
series of Securities established as contemplated by Section 2.01.

      "Interest Payment Date," when used with respect to any Security, means the
Stated Maturity of an installment of interest on a Security of a particular
series.

      "Investment Company Act" means the Investment Company Act of 1940 and any
statute successor thereto, in each case as amended from time to time.

      "MetLife Trust" means each of MetLife Capital Trust II and MetLife Capital
Trust III (together, the "Trusts"), each a statutory business trust formed under
the laws of the State of Delaware, or any other similar trust created for the
purpose of issuing preferred securities in connection with the issuance of
Securities under this Indenture.

      "MLIC" means Metropolitan Life Insurance Company, an insurance company
duly organized and existing under the insurance laws of the State of New York or
any Person successor thereto.

      "Officers' Certificate" means a certificate signed by the Chief Financial
Officer, President or a Vice President and by the Treasurer or an Assistant
Treasurer or the Controller or an Assistant Controller or the Secretary or an
Assistant Secretary of the Company that is delivered to the Trustee in
accordance with the terms hereof. Each such certificate shall include the
statements provided for in Section 14.07, if and to the extent required by the
provisions thereof.

      "Opinion of Counsel" means an opinion in writing of legal counsel, who may
be an employee of or counsel for the Company and who shall be reasonably
acceptable to the Trustee that is delivered to the Trustee in accordance with
the terms hereof. Each such opinion shall

                                        4

include the statements provided for in Section 14.07, if and to the extent
required by the provisions thereof.

      "Original Issue Discount Security" means any Security which provides for
an amount less than the principal amount thereof to be due and payable upon a
declaration of acceleration of the maturity thereof pursuant to Section 6.01(b).

      "Outstanding," when used with reference to Securities of any series,
means, subject to the provisions of Section 8.04, as of any particular time, all
Securities of that series theretofore authenticated and delivered by the Trustee
under this Indenture, except (a) Securities theretofore canceled by the Trustee
or any Paying Agent, or delivered to the Trustee or any Paying Agent for
cancellation or that have previously been canceled; (b) Securities or portions
thereof for the payment or redemption of which moneys or Governmental
Obligations in the necessary amount shall have been deposited in trust with the
Trustee or with any Paying Agent (other than the Company) or shall have been set
aside and segregated in trust by the Company (if the Company shall act as its
own Paying Agent); provided, however, that if such Securities or portions of
such Securities are to be redeemed prior to the maturity thereof, notice of such
redemption shall have been given as in Article Three provided, or provision
satisfactory to the Trustee shall have been made for giving such notice; (c)
Securities in lieu of or in substitution for which other Securities shall have
been authenticated and delivered pursuant to the terms of Section 2.07; and (d)
Securities as to which Defeasance (as defined in Section 13.02) has been
effected pursuant to Section 13.02, provided, however, that in determining
whether the holders of the requisite principal amount of the Outstanding
Securities have given, made or taken any request, demand, authorization,
direction, notice, consent, waiver or other action hereunder as of any date, (A)
the principal amount of an Original Issue Discount Security which shall be
deemed to be Outstanding shall be the amount of the principal thereof which
would be due and payable as of such date upon acceleration of the maturity
thereof to such date pursuant to Section 6.01(b), (B) if, as of such date, the
principal amount payable at the Stated Maturity of a Security is not
determinable, the principal amount of such Security which shall be deemed to be
Outstanding shall be the amount as specified or determined as contemplated by
Section 2.01, (C) the principal amount of a Security denominated in one or more
foreign currencies or currency units which shall be deemed to be Outstanding
shall be the U.S. dollar equivalent, determined as of such date in the manner
provided as contemplated by Section 2.01, of the principal amount of such
Security (or, in the case of a Security described in Clause (A) or (B) above, of
the amount determined as provided in such Clause), and (D) Securities
beneficially owned by the Company or any other obligor upon such Securities or
any Affiliate of the Company or of such other obligor shall be disregarded and
deemed not to be Outstanding, except that, in determining whether the Trustee
shall be protected in relying upon any such request, demand, authorization,
direction, notice, consent, waiver or other action, only Securities which a
Responsible Officer of the Trustee knows to be so owned shall be so disregarded.
Securities so owned which have been pledged in good faith may be regarded as
Outstanding if the pledgee establishes to the satisfaction of the Trustee the
pledgee's right so to act with respect to such Securities and that the pledgee
is not the Company or any other obligor upon the Securities or any Affiliate of
the Company or of such other obligor.

      "Paying Agent" means any Person authorized by the Company to pay the
principal of or any premium or interest on any Securities on behalf of the
Company.

                                        5

"Person" means any individual, corporation, partnership, joint-venture,
joint-stock company, unincorporated organization or government or any agency or
political subdivision thereof.

      "Place of Payment," when used with respect to the Securities of any
series, means the place or places where the principal of and any premium and
interest on the Securities of that series are payable as specified as
contemplated by Section 2.01.

      "Predecessor Security" of any particular Security means every previous
Security evidencing all or a portion of the same debt as that evidenced by such
particular Security; and, for the purposes of this definition, any Security
authenticated and delivered under Section 2.07 in lieu of a lost, destroyed or
stolen Security shall be deemed to evidence the same debt as the lost, destroyed
or stolen Security.

      "Preferred Securities" means undivided beneficial interests in the assets
of a MetLife Trust which rank pari passu with Common Securities issued by such
MetLife Trust; provided, however, that upon the occurrence of an Event of
Default, the rights of holders of Common Securities to payment in respect of
distributions and payments upon liquidation, redemption and otherwise are
subordinated to the rights of holders of Preferred Securities.

      "Preferred Securities Guarantee" means any guarantee agreement executed by
the Company with respect to the Preferred Securities issued by a MetLife Trust
pursuant to which the Company agrees to pay the guarantee payments under any
such guarantee agreement to the holders of such Preferred Securities.

      "Property Trustee" has the meaning set forth in the Declaration of the
applicable MetLife Trust.

      "Redemption Date," when used with respect to any Security to be redeemed,
means the date fixed for such redemption by or pursuant to this Indenture.

      "Redemption Price," when used with respect to any Security to be redeemed,
means the price at which it is to be redeemed pursuant to this Indenture.

      "Responsible Officer," when used with respect to the Trustee, means the
Chairman of the Board of Directors, the President, any Vice-President, the
Secretary, the Treasurer, any trust officer, any corporate trust officer or any
other officer or assistant officer of the Trustee customarily performing
functions similar to those performed by the Persons who at the time shall be
such officers, respectively, or to whom any corporate trust matter is referred
because of his or her knowledge of and familiarity with the particular subject.

      "Securities" has the meaning stated in the preamble of this Indenture and
more particularly means any Securities authenticated and delivered under this
Indenture.

      "Securities Act" means the Securities Act of 1933 and any statute
successor thereto, in each case as amended from time to time.

                                        6

"Securityholder," "holder of Securities," "registered holder," or other
similar term, means the Person or Persons in whose name or names a particular
Security shall be registered on the books of the Company kept for that purpose
in accordance with the terms of this Indenture.

      "Senior Indebtedness" means with respect to the Company, all amounts due
on obligations in connection with any of the following, whether Outstanding at
the date of execution of this Indenture, or thereafter incurred or created, (i)
the principal of or any premium and interest in respect of (A) indebtedness of
the Company for money borrowed and (B) indebtedness evidenced by securities,
debentures, bonds or other similar instruments issued by the Company (other than
the Securities); (ii) all capital lease obligations of the Company; all
obligations of the Company issued or assumed as the deferred purchase price of
property, all conditional sale obligations of the Company and all obligations of
the Company under any title retention agreement (but excluding trade accounts
payable arising in the ordinary course of business); (iv) all obligations of the
Company for the reimbursement on any letter of credit, banker's acceptance,
security purchase facility or similar credit transaction; (v) all obligations of
the Company in respect of interest rate swap, cap or other agreements, interest
rate future or options contracts, currency swap arrangements, currency future or
option contracts and other similar agreements; (vi) all obligations of the types
referred to in clauses (i) through (v) above of other persons for the payment of
which the Company is responsible or liable as obligor, guarantor or otherwise;
and (vii) all obligations of the types referred to in clauses (i) through (vi)
above of other persons secured by any lien on any property or asset of the
Company (whether or not such obligation is assumed by the Company); provided,
that, "Senior Indebtedness" shall not include: (1) indebtedness or monetary
obligations to trade creditors created or assumed by the Company in the ordinary
course of business in connection with the obtaining of materials or services;
indebtedness that is by its terms subordinated to or ranks equal with the
Securities; or (3) any indebtedness of the Company to its Affiliates (including
all debt securities and guarantees in respect of those debt securities, issued
to (a) any MetLife Trust or (b) any other trust, partnership or other entity
affiliated with the Company that is a financing vehicle of the Company (a"
financing entity") in connection with the issuance by such financing entity of
preferred securities or other securities guaranteed by the Company) unless
otherwise expressly provided in the terms of any such indebtedness.

      "Stated Maturity," when used with respect to any Security or any
installment of principal thereof or interest thereon, means the date specified
in such Security as the fixed date on which the principal of such Security or
such installment of principal or interest is due and payable.

      "Subsidiary" means, with respect to any Person, (i) any corporation at
least a majority of whose outstanding Voting Stock shall at the time be owned,
directly or indirectly, by such Person or by one or more of its Subsidiaries or
by such Person and one or more of its Subsidiaries, (ii) any general
partnership, joint venture or similar entity, at least a majority of whose
outstanding partnership or similar interests shall at the time be owned by such
Person, or by one or more of its Subsidiaries, or by such Person and one or more
of its Subsidiaries and (iii) any limited partnership of which such Person or
any of its Subsidiaries is a general partner.

      "Trustee" means J.P. Morgan Trust Company, National Association and,
subject to the provisions of Article Seven, shall also include its successors
and assigns and, if at any time there is more than one Person acting in such
capacity hereunder, "Trustee" shall mean each such

                                        7

Person. The term "Trustee" as used with respect to a particular series of the
Securities shall mean the trustee with respect to that series.

      "Trust Indenture Act" means the Trust Indenture Act of 1939, as amended,
subject to the provisions of Sections 9.01, 9.02, and 10.01, as in effect at the
date of execution of this instrument.

      "Trust Securities" means, collectively, Common Securities and Preferred
Securities of a MetLife Trust.

      "Voting Stock," as applied to stock of any Person, means shares,
interests, participations or other equivalents in the equity interest (however
designated) in such Person having ordinary voting power for the election of a
majority of the directors (or the equivalent) of such Person, other than shares,
interests, participations or other equivalents having such power only by reason
of the occurrence of a contingency.

      "Yield to Maturity" means the yield to maturity on a series of securities
calculated at the time of issuance of such series or, if applicable, of the most
recent redetermination of interest on such series, and calculated in accordance
with accepted financial practice.

                                   ARTICLE II

                         DESCRIPTION, TERMS, EXECUTION,
                     REGISTRATION AND EXCHANGE OF SECURITIES

      Section 2.01 Designation and Terms of Securities.

      (a) The aggregate principal amount of Securities that may be authenticated
and delivered under this Indenture is unlimited. The Securities may be issued in
one or more series up to the aggregate principal amount of Securities of that
series from time to time authorized by or pursuant to a Board Resolution of the
Company or pursuant to one or more indentures supplemental hereto. Prior to the
initial issuance of Securities of any series, there shall be established in or
pursuant to a Board Resolution of the Company, and set forth in an Officers'
Certificate of the Company, or established in one or more indentures
supplemental hereto:

            (1) the title of the Security of the series (which shall distinguish
      the Securities of the series from all other Securities);

            (2) any limit upon the aggregate principal amount of the Securities
      of that series that may be authenticated and delivered under this
      Indenture (except for Securities authenticated and delivered upon
      registration of transfer of, or in exchange for, or in lieu of, other
      Securities of that series);

            (3) the price or prices at which the Company will sell the
      Securities;

            (4) the Stated Maturity of the Securities;

                                        8

(5) the rate or rates at which the Securities of the series shall
      bear interest or the manner of calculation of such rate or rates, if any;

            (6) the date or dates from which such interest shall accrue, the
      Interest Payment Dates on which such interest will be payable or the
      manner of determination of such Interest Payment Dates and the record date
      for the determination of holders to whom interest is payable on any such
      Interest Payment Dates;

            (7) the right, if any, to extend the interest payment periods and
      the duration of any such Deferral Period, including the maximum
      consecutive period during which interest payment periods may be extended;

            (8) if the amount of principal of or any premium or interest on any
      Securities of the series may be determined with reference to any index,
      formula, or other method, such as one or more currencies, commodities,
      equity indices or other indices, and the manner in which such amounts
      shall be determined;

            (9) the place or places where the principal of and any premium and
      interest on any Securities of the series shall be payable;

            (10) the period or periods within which, the price or prices at
      which and the terms and conditions upon which, Securities of the series
      may be redeemed, in whole or in part, at the option of the Company;

            (11) the obligation, if any, of the Company to redeem, repay or
      purchase Securities of the series pursuant to any sinking fund or
      analogous provisions (including payments made in cash in participation of
      future sinking fund obligations) or at the option of a holder thereof and
      the period or periods within which, the price or prices at which, and the
      terms and conditions upon which, Securities of the series shall be
      redeemed, repaid or purchased, in whole or in part, pursuant to such
      obligation;

            (12) if other than denominations of one thousand U.S. dollars
      ($1,000) or any integral multiple thereof, the denominations in which the
      Securities of the series shall be issuable;

            (13) if other than the full principal amount thereof, the portion
      or, methods of determining the portion, of the principal amount of
      Securities of the series which shall be payable upon declaration of
      acceleration of the maturity thereof pursuant to Section 6.01;

            (14) if other than the currency of the United States of America, the
      currency, currencies or currency units in which the principal of or any
      premium or interest on any Securities of the series shall be payable and
      the manner of determining the equivalent thereof in the currency of the
      United States of America for any purpose, including for purposes of the
      definition of "Outstanding" in Section 1.01;

            (15) provisions granting special rights to holders of the Securities
      upon the occurrence of specific events;

                                        9

(16) any deletions from, modifications of or additions to the Events
      of Default or the Company's covenants provided for with respect to the
      Securities of the series;

            (17) if applicable, that the Securities of the series, in whole or
      any specified part, shall be defeasible pursuant to Section 13.02 or
      Section 13.03 or both such Sections and, if other than by a Board
      Resolution, the manner in which any election by the Company to defease
      such Securities shall be evidenced;

            (18) whether the subordination provisions contained in Article XV or
      different subordination provisions will apply to the Securities.

            (19) whether the Securities will be convertible into shares of
      common stock or other securities or property of the Company and, if so,
      the terms and conditions upon which such Securities will be so
      convertible, including the conversion price and the conversion period;

            (20) whether the Securities are issuable as a Global Security and,
      in such case, the identity for the Depositary for such series and the
      terms and conditions upon which Global Securities may be exchanged for
      certificated debt securities;

            (21) any special tax implications of the Securities of the series,
      including any provisions for Original Issue Discount Securities, if
      offered;

            (22) any change in the right of the Trustee or the requisite holders
      of such Securities to declare the principal amount thereof due and payable
      pursuant to Section 6.01;

            (23) any trustees, authenticating or Paying Agents, transfer agents
      or registrars or other agents with respect to the Securities; and

            (24) any other terms of the series (which terms shall not be
      inconsistent with the provisions of this Indenture, except as permitted by
      Section 9.01(11)), but which may modify or delete any provision of this
      Indenture with respect to such series, provided that no such term may
      modify or delete any provision hereof if imposed by the Trust Indenture
      Act, and provided, further that any modification or deletion of the
      rights, duties or immunities of the Trustee hereunder shall have been
      consented to in writing by the Trustee).

      All Securities of any one series shall be substantially identical except
as to denomination and except as may otherwise be provided in or pursuant to any
such Board Resolution or in any indentures supplemental hereto.

      If any of the terms of the series are established by action taken pursuant
to a Board Resolution of the Company, a copy of an appropriate record of such
action shall be certified by the Secretary or an Assistant Secretary of the
Company and delivered to the Trustee at or prior to the delivery of the
Officers' Certificate of the Company setting forth the terms of the series.

                                       10

Securities of any particular series may be issued at various times, with
different dates on which the principal or any installment of principal is
payable, with different rates of interest, if any, or different methods by which
rates of interest may be determined, with different dates on which such interest
may be payable and with different redemption dates.

      Section 2.02 Form of Securities and Trustee's Certificate.

      The Securities of any series and the Trustee's certificate of
authentication to be borne by such Securities shall be substantially of the
tenor and purport as set forth in one or more indentures supplemental hereto or
as provided in a Board Resolution of the Company and as set forth in an
Officers' Certificate of the Company and may have such letters, numbers or other
marks of identification or designation and such legends or endorsements printed,
lithographed or engraved thereon as the Company may deem appropriate and as are
not inconsistent with the provisions of this Indenture, or as may be required to
comply with any law or with any rule or regulation made pursuant thereto or with
any rule or regulation of any stock exchange on which Securities of that series
may be listed, or to conform to usage.

      Section 2.03 Denominations; Provisions for Payment.

      The Securities shall be issuable as registered Securities and in the
denominations of one thousand U.S. dollars ($1,000) or any integral multiple
thereof, subject to Section 2.01(11). The Securities of a particular series
shall bear interest payable on the dates and at the rate specified with respect
to that series. Unless otherwise provided pursuant to Section 2.01, the
principal of and the interest on the Securities of any series, as well as any
premium thereon in case of redemption thereof prior to maturity, shall be
payable in the coin or currency of the United States of America that at the time
is legal tender for public and private debt, at the office or agency of the
Company maintained for that purpose in the Borough of Manhattan, the City and
State of New York. Each Security shall be dated the date of its authentication.
Interest on the Securities shall be computed on the basis of a 360-day year
composed of twelve 30-day months.

      The interest installment on any Security that is payable, and is
punctually paid or duly provided for, on any Interest Payment Date for
Securities of that series shall be paid to the Person in whose name said
Security (or one or more Predecessor Securities) is registered at the close of
business on the regular record date for such interest installment. In the event
that any Security of a particular series or portion thereof is called for
redemption and the redemption date is subsequent to a regular record date with
respect to any Interest Payment Date and prior to such Interest Payment Date,
interest on such Security will be paid upon presentation and surrender of such
Security as provided in Section 3.03.

      Except as otherwise specified with respect to a series of Securities in
accordance with the provisions of Section 2.01, any interest on any Security
that is payable, but is not punctually paid or duly provided for, on any
Interest Payment Date for Securities of the same series (herein called
"Defaulted Interest") shall forthwith cease to be payable to the registered
holder on the relevant regular record date by virtue of having been such holder;
and such Defaulted Interest shall be paid by the Company, at its election, as
provided in clause (1) or clause (2) below:

                                       11

(1) The Company may make payment of any Defaulted Interest on
      Securities to the Persons in whose names such Securities (or their
      respective Predecessor Securities) are registered at the close of business
      on a special record date for the payment of such Defaulted Interest, which
      shall be fixed in the following manner: the Company shall notify the
      Trustee in writing of the amount of Defaulted Interest proposed to be paid
      on each such Security and the date of the proposed payment, and at the
      same time the Company shall deposit with the Trustee an amount of money
      equal to the aggregate amount proposed to be paid in respect of such
      Defaulted Interest or shall make arrangements satisfactory to the Trustee
      for such deposit prior to the date of the proposed payment, such money
      when deposited to be held in trust for the benefit of the Persons entitled
      to such Defaulted Interest as in this clause provided. Thereupon the
      Trustee shall fix a special record date for the payment of such Defaulted
      Interest which shall not be more than 15 nor less than 10 days prior to
      the date of the proposed payment and not less than 10 days after the
      receipt by the Trustee of the notice of the proposed payment. The Trustee
      shall promptly notify the Company of such special record date and, in the
      name and at the expense of the Company, shall cause notice of the proposed
      payment of such Defaulted Interest and the special record date therefor to
      be mailed, first class postage prepaid, to each Securityholder at his or
      her address as it appears in the Security Register (as hereinafter
      defined), not less than 10 days prior to such special record date. Notice
      of the proposed payment of such Defaulted Interest and the special record
      date therefor having been mailed as aforesaid, such Defaulted Interest
      shall be paid to the Persons in whose names such Securities (or their
      respective Predecessor Securities) are registered on such special record
      date and shall be no longer payable pursuant to the following clause (2).

            (2) The Company may make payment of any Defaulted Interest on any
      Securities in any other lawful manner not inconsistent with the
      requirements of any securities exchange on which such Securities may be
      listed, and upon such notice as may be required by such exchange, if,
      after notice given by the Company to the Trustee of the proposed payment
      pursuant to this clause, such manner of payment shall be deemed
      practicable by the Trustee. Unless otherwise set forth in a Board
      Resolution of the Company or one or more indentures supplemental hereto
      establishing the terms of any series of Securities pursuant to Section
      2.01 hereof, the term "regular record date" as used in this Section with
      respect to a series of Securities with respect to any Interest Payment
      Date for such series shall mean either the fifteenth day of the month
      immediately preceding the month in which an Interest Payment Date
      established for such series pursuant to Section 2.01 hereof shall occur,
      if such Interest Payment Date is the first day of a month, or the last day
      of the month immediately preceding the month in which an Interest Payment
      Date established for such series pursuant to Section 2.01 hereof shall
      occur, if such Interest Payment Date is the fifteenth day of a month,
      whether or not such date is a Business Day.

      Subject to the foregoing provisions of this Section, each Security of a
series delivered under this Indenture upon transfer of or in exchange for or in
lieu of any other Security of such series shall carry the rights to interest
accrued and unpaid, and to accrue, that were carried by such other Security.

                                       12

Section 2.04 Execution and Authentications.

      The Securities shall be signed on behalf of the Company by its President,
or one of its Vice Presidents, or its Treasurer, or one of its Assistant
Treasurers, or its Secretary, or one of its Assistant Secretaries. Signatures
may be in the form of a manual or facsimile signature. The Company may use the
facsimile signature of any Person who shall have been a President or Vice
President thereof, or of any Person who shall have been a Secretary or Assistant
Secretary thereof, notwithstanding the fact that at the time the Securities
shall be authenticated and delivered or disposed of such Person shall have
ceased to be the President or a Vice President, or the Secretary or an Assistant
Secretary, of the Company. The Securities may contain such notations, legends or
endorsements required by law, stock exchange rule or usage. Each Security shall
be dated the date of its authentication by the Trustee.

      A Security shall not be valid until authenticated manually by an
authorized signatory of the Trustee, or by an Authenticating Agent. Such
signature shall be conclusive evidence that the Security so authenticated has
been duly authenticated and delivered hereunder and that the holder is entitled
to the benefits of this Indenture.

      At any time and from time to time after the execution and delivery of this
Indenture, the Company may deliver Securities of any series executed by the
Company to the Trustee for authentication, together with a written order of the
Company for the authentication and delivery of such Securities, signed by its
President or any Vice President and its Secretary or any Assistant Secretary,
and the Trustee in accordance with such written order shall authenticate and
deliver such Securities.

      In authenticating such Securities and accepting the additional
responsibilities under this Indenture in relation to such Securities, the
Trustee shall be entitled to receive, and (subject to Section 7.01) shall be
fully protected in relying upon, an Opinion of Counsel stating that the form and
terms thereof have been established in conformity with the provisions of this
Indenture.

      The Trustee shall not be required to authenticate such Securities if the
issue of such Securities pursuant to this Indenture will affect the Trustee's
own rights, duties or immunities under the Securities and this Indenture or
otherwise in a manner that is not reasonably acceptable to the Trustee.

      Section 2.05 Registration of Transfer and Exchange.

      (a) Securities of any series may be exchanged upon presentation thereof at
the office or agency of the Company designated for such purpose in the Borough
of Manhattan, the City and State of New York, for other Securities of such
series of authorized denominations, and for a like aggregate principal amount,
upon payment of a sum sufficient to cover any tax or other governmental charge
in relation thereto, all as provided in this Section. In respect of any
Securities so surrendered for exchange, the Company shall execute, the Trustee
shall authenticate and such office or agency shall deliver in exchange therefor
the Security or Securities of the same series that the Securityholder making the
exchange shall be entitled to receive, bearing numbers not contemporaneously
outstanding.

                                       13

(b) The Company shall keep, or cause to be kept, at its office or agency
designated for such purpose in the Borough of Manhattan, the City and State of
New York, or such other location designated by the Company a register or
registers (herein referred to as the "Security Register") in which, subject to
such reasonable regulations as it may prescribe, the Company shall register the
Securities and the transfers of Securities as in this Article provided and which
at all reasonable times shall be open for inspection by the Trustee. The
registrar for the purpose of registering Securities and transfer of Securities
as herein provided shall be appointed as authorized by Board Resolution (the
"Security Registrar").

      Upon surrender for transfer of any Security at the office or agency of the
Company designated for such purpose, the Company shall execute, the Trustee
shall authenticate and such office or agency shall deliver in the name of the
transferee or transferees a new Security or Securities of the same series as the
Security presented for a like aggregate principal amount.

      All Securities presented or surrendered for exchange or registration of
transfer, as provided in this Section, shall be accompanied (if so required by
the Company or the Security Registrar) by a written instrument or instruments of
transfer, in form satisfactory to the Company or the Security Registrar, duly
executed by the registered holder or by such holder's duly authorized attorney
in writing.

      (c) No service charge shall be made for any exchange or registration of
transfer of Securities, or issue of new Securities in case of partial redemption
of any series, but the Company may require payment of a sum sufficient to cover
any tax or other governmental charge in relation thereto, other than exchanges
pursuant to Section 2.06, the second paragraph of Section 3.03 and Section 9.04
not involving any transfer.

      (d) The Company shall not be required (i) to issue, exchange or register
the transfer of any Securities during a period beginning at the opening of
business 15 days before the day of the mailing of a notice of redemption of less
than all the Outstanding Securities of the same series and ending at the close
of business on the day of such mailing, nor (ii) to register the transfer of or
exchange any Securities of any series or portions thereof called for redemption.
The provisions of this Section 2.05 are, with respect to any Global Security,
subject to Section 2.11 hereof.

      Section 2.06 Temporary Securities.

      Pending the preparation of definitive Securities of any series, the
Company may execute, and the Trustee shall authenticate and deliver, temporary
Securities (printed, lithographed or typewritten) of any authorized
denomination. Such temporary Securities shall be substantially in the form of
the definitive Securities in lieu of which they are issued, but with such
omissions, insertions and variations as may be appropriate for temporary
Securities, all as may be determined by the Company. Every temporary Security of
any series shall be executed by the Company and be authenticated by the Trustee
upon the same conditions and in substantially the same manner, and with like
effect, as the definitive Securities of such series. Without unnecessary delay
the Company will execute and will furnish definitive Securities of such series
and thereupon any or all temporary Securities of such series may be surrendered
in exchange therefor (without charge to the holders), at the office or agency of
the Company designated for

                                       14

the purpose in the Borough of Manhattan, the City and State of New York, and the
Trustee shall authenticate and such office or agency shall deliver in exchange
for such temporary Securities an equal aggregate principal amount of definitive
Securities of such series, unless the Company advises the Trustee to the effect
that definitive Securities need not be executed and furnished until further
notice from the Company. Until so exchanged, the temporary Securities of such
series shall be entitled to the same benefits under this Indenture as definitive
Securities of such series authenticated and delivered hereunder.

      Section 2.07 Mutilated, Destroyed, Lost or Stolen Securities.

      In case any temporary or definitive Security shall become mutilated or be
destroyed, lost or stolen, the Company (subject to the next succeeding sentence)
shall execute, and upon the Company's request the Trustee (subject as aforesaid)
shall authenticate and deliver, a new Security of the same series, bearing a
number not contemporaneously outstanding, in exchange and substitution for the
mutilated Security, or in lieu of and in substitution for the Security so
destroyed, lost or stolen. In every case the applicant for a substituted
Security shall furnish to the Company and the Trustee such security or indemnity
as may be required by them to save each of them harmless, and, in every case of
destruction, loss or theft, the applicant shall also furnish to the Company and
the Trustee evidence to their satisfaction of the destruction, loss or theft of
the applicant's Security and of the ownership thereof. The Trustee may
authenticate any such substituted Security and deliver the same upon the written
request or authorization of any officer of the Company. Upon the issuance of any
substituted Security, the Company may require the payment of a sum sufficient to
cover any tax or other governmental charge that may be imposed in relation
thereto and any other expenses (including the fees and expenses of the Trustee)
connected therewith. In case any Security that has matured or is about to mature
shall become mutilated or be destroyed, lost or stolen, the Company may, instead
of issuing a substitute Security, pay or authorize the payment of the same
(without surrender thereof except in the case of a mutilated Security) if the
applicant for such payment shall furnish to the Company and the Trustee such
security or indemnity as they may require to save them harmless, and, in case of
destruction, loss or theft, evidence to the satisfaction of the Company and the
Trustee of the destruction, loss or theft of such Security and of the ownership
thereof.

      Every replacement Security issued pursuant to the provisions of this
Section shall constitute an additional contractual obligation of the Company
whether or not the mutilated, destroyed, lost or stolen Security shall be found
at any time, or be enforceable by anyone, and shall be entitled to all the
benefits of this Indenture equally and proportionately with any and all other
Securities of the same series duly issued hereunder. All Securities shall be
held and owned upon the express condition that the foregoing provisions are
exclusive with respect to the replacement or payment of mutilated, destroyed,
lost or stolen Securities, and shall preclude (to the extent lawful) any and all
other rights or remedies, notwithstanding any law or statute existing or
hereafter enacted to the contrary with respect to the replacement or payment of
negotiable instruments or other securities without their surrender.

      Section 2.08 Cancellation.

      All Securities surrendered for the purpose of payment, redemption,
exchange or registration of transfer shall, if surrendered to the Company or any
Paying Agent, be delivered to

                                       15

the Trustee for cancellation, or, if surrendered to the Trustee, shall be
canceled by it, and no Securities shall be issued in lieu thereof except as
expressly required or permitted by any of the provisions of this Indenture. On
request of the Company at the time of such surrender, the Trustee shall deliver
to the Company canceled Securities held by the Trustee. In the absence of such
request the Trustee may dispose of canceled Securities in accordance with its
standard procedures and deliver a certificate of disposition to the Company. If
the Company shall otherwise acquire any of the Securities, however, such
acquisition shall not operate as a redemption or satisfaction of the
indebtedness represented by such Securities unless and until the same are
delivered to the Trustee for cancellation.

      Section 2.09 Benefits of Indenture.

      Nothing in this Indenture or in the Securities, express or implied, shall
give or be construed to give to any Person, other than the parties hereto and
the holders of the Securities any legal or equitable right, remedy or claim
under or in respect of this Indenture, or under any covenant, condition or
provision herein contained; all such covenants, conditions and provisions being
for the sole benefit of the parties hereto and of the holders of the Securities.

      Section 2.10 Authenticating Agent.

      So long as any of the Securities of any series remain Outstanding there
may be an Authenticating Agent for any or all such series of Securities which
the Trustee shall have the right to appoint. Said Authenticating Agent shall be
authorized to act on behalf of the Trustee to authenticate Securities of such
series issued upon exchange, transfer or partial redemption thereof, and
Securities so authenticated shall be entitled to the benefits of this Indenture
and shall be valid and obligatory for all purposes as if authenticated by the
Trustee hereunder. All references in this Indenture to the authentication of
Securities by the Trustee shall be deemed to include authentication by an
Authenticating Agent for such series. Each Authenticating Agent shall be
acceptable to the Company and shall be a corporation that has a combined capital
and surplus, as most recently reported or determined by it, sufficient under the
laws of any jurisdiction under which it is organized or in which it is doing
business to conduct a trust business, and that is otherwise authorized under
such laws to conduct such business and is subject to supervision or examination
by federal or state authorities. If at any time any Authenticating Agent shall
cease to be eligible in accordance with these provisions, it shall resign
immediately.

      Any Authenticating Agent may at any time resign by giving written notice
of resignation to the Trustee and to the Company. The Trustee may at any time
(and upon request by the Company shall) terminate the agency of any
Authenticating Agent by giving written notice of termination to such
Authenticating Agent and to the Company. Upon resignation, termination or
cessation of eligibility of any Authenticating Agent, the Trustee may appoint an
eligible successor Authenticating Agent acceptable to the Company. Any successor
Authenticating Agent, upon acceptance of its appointment hereunder, shall become
vested with all the rights, powers and duties of its predecessor hereunder as if
originally named as an Authenticating Agent pursuant hereto.

                                       16

Section 2.11 Global Securities.

      (a) If the Company shall establish pursuant to Section 2.01 that the
Securities of a particular series are to be issued as a Global Security, then
the Company shall execute and the Trustee shall, in accordance with Section
2.04, authenticate and deliver, a Global Security that (i) shall represent, and
shall be denominated in an amount equal to the aggregate principal amount of,
all of the Outstanding Securities of such series, (ii) shall be registered in
the name of the Depositary or its nominee, (iii) shall be delivered by the
Trustee to the Depositary or pursuant to the Depositary's instruction and (iv)
shall bear a legend substantially to the following effect: "Except as otherwise
provided in Section 2.11 of the Indenture, this Security may be transferred, in
whole but not in part, only to another nominee of the Depositary or to a
successor Depositary or to a nominee of such successor Depositary."

      (b) Notwithstanding the provisions of Section 2.05, the Global Security of
a series may be transferred, in whole but not in part and in the manner provided
in Section 2.05, only to another nominee of the Depositary for such series, or
to a successor Depositary for such series selected or approved by the Company or
to a nominee of such successor Depositary.

      (c) If at any time the Depositary for a series of the Securities notifies
the Company that it is unwilling or unable to continue as Depositary for such
series or if at any time the Depositary for such series shall no longer be
registered or in good standing under the Exchange Act, or other applicable
statute or regulation, and a successor Depositary for such series is not
appointed by the Company within 90 days after the Company receives such notice
or becomes aware of such condition, as the case may be, this Section 2.11 shall
no longer be applicable to the Securities of such series and the Company will
execute, and subject to Section 2.05, the Trustee will authenticate and deliver
the Securities of such series in definitive registered form without coupons, in
authorized denominations, and in an aggregate principal amount equal to the
principal amount of the Global Security of such series in exchange for such
Global Security. In addition, the Company may at any time determine that the
Securities of any series shall no longer be represented by a Global Security and
that the provisions of this Section 2.11 shall no longer apply to the Securities
of such series. In such event the Company will execute and subject to Section
2.05, the Trustee, upon receipt of an Officers' Certificate evidencing such
determination by the Company, will authenticate and deliver the Securities of
such series in definitive registered form without coupons, in authorized
denominations, and in an aggregate principal amount equal to the principal
amount of the Global Security of such series in exchange for such Global
Security. Upon the exchange of the Global Security for such Securities in
definitive registered form without coupons, in authorized denominations, the
Global Security shall be canceled by the Trustee. Such Securities in definitive
registered form issued in exchange for the Global Security pursuant to this
Section 2.11(c) shall be registered in such names and in such authorized
denominations as the Depositary, pursuant to instructions from its direct or
indirect participants or otherwise, shall instruct the Trustee. The Trustee
shall deliver such Securities to the Depositary for delivery to the Persons in
whose names such Securities are so registered.

                                       17

ARTICLE III

              REDEMPTION OF SECURITIES AND SINKING FUND PROVISIONS

      Section 3.01 Redemption.

      The Company may redeem the Securities of any series issued hereunder on
and after the dates and in accordance with the terms established for such series
pursuant to Section 2.01 hereof.

      Section 3.02 Notice of Redemption.

      (a) In case the Company shall desire to exercise such right to redeem all
or, as the case may be, a portion of the Securities of any series in accordance
with the right reserved so to do, the Company shall, or shall cause the Trustee
to, give notice of such redemption to holders of the Securities of such series
to be redeemed by mailing, first class postage prepaid, a notice of such
redemption not less than 30 days and not more than 90 days before the date fixed
for redemption of that series to such holders at their last addresses as they
shall appear upon the Security Register unless a shorter period is specified in
the Securities to be redeemed. Any notice that is mailed in the manner herein
provided shall be conclusively presumed to have been duly given, whether or not
the registered holder receives the notice. In any case, failure duly to give
such notice to the holder of any Security of any series designated for
redemption in whole or in part, or any defect in the notice, shall not affect
the validity of the proceedings for the redemption of any other Securities of
such series or any other series. In the case of any redemption of Securities
prior to the expiration of any restriction on such redemption provided in the
terms of such Securities or elsewhere in this Indenture, the Company shall
furnish the Trustee with an Officers' Certificate evidencing compliance with any
such restriction.

      Each such notice of redemption shall specify the date fixed for redemption
and the redemption price at which Securities of that series are to be redeemed,
and shall state that payment of the redemption price of such Securities to be
redeemed will be made at the office or agency of the Company in the Borough of
Manhattan, the City and State of New York, upon presentation and surrender of
such Securities, that interest accrued to the date fixed for redemption will be
paid as specified in said notice, that from and after said date interest will
cease to accrue and that the redemption is for a sinking fund, if such is the
case. If less than all the Securities of a series are to be redeemed, the notice
to the holders of Securities of that series to be redeemed in whole or in part
shall specify the particular Securities to be so redeemed. In case any Security
is to be redeemed in part only, the notice that relates to such Security shall
state the portion of the principal amount thereof to be redeemed, and shall
state that on and after the redemption date, upon surrender of such Security, a
new Security or Securities of such series in principal amount equal to the
unredeemed portion thereof will be issued.

      (b) If less than all the Securities of a series are to be redeemed, the
Company shall give the Trustee at least 45 days' notice in advance of the date
fixed for redemption as to the aggregate principal amount of Securities of the
series to be redeemed, and thereupon the Trustee shall select, by lot or in such
other manner as it shall deem appropriate and fair in its discretion and that
may provide for the selection of a portion or portions (equal to one thousand
U.S.

                                       18

dollars ($1,000) or any integral multiple thereof) of the principal amount of
such Securities of a denomination larger than $1,000, the Securities to be
redeemed and shall thereafter promptly notify the Company in writing of the
numbers of the Securities to be redeemed, in whole or in part.

      The Company may, if and whenever it shall so elect, by delivery of
instructions signed on its behalf by its President or any Vice President,
instruct the Trustee or any Paying Agent to call all or any part of the
Securities of a particular series for redemption and to give notice of
redemption in the manner set forth in this Section, such notice to be in the
name of the Company or its own name as the Trustee or such Paying Agent may deem
advisable. In any case in which notice of redemption is to be given by the
Trustee or any such Paying Agent, the Company shall deliver or cause to be
delivered to, or permit to remain with, the Trustee or such Paying Agent, as the
case may be, such Security Register, transfer books or other records, or
suitable copies or extracts therefrom, sufficient to enable the Trustee or such
Paying Agent to give any notice by mail that may be required under the
provisions of this Section.

      Section 3.03 Payment Upon Redemption.

      (a) If the giving of notice of redemption shall have been completed as
above provided, the Securities or portions of Securities of the series to be
redeemed specified in such notice shall become due and payable on the date and
at the place stated in such notice at the applicable redemption price, together
with interest accrued to the date fixed for redemption and interest on such
Securities or portions of Securities shall cease to accrue on and after the date
fixed for redemption, unless the Company shall default in the payment of such
redemption price and accrued interest with respect to any such Security or
portion thereof. On presentation and surrender of such Securities on or after
the date fixed for redemption at the place of payment specified in the notice,
said Securities shall be paid and redeemed at the applicable redemption price
for such series, together with interest accrued thereon to the date fixed for
redemption (but if the date fixed for redemption is an interest payment date,
the interest installment payable on such date shall be payable to the registered
holder at the close of business on the applicable record date pursuant to
Section 2.03).

      (b) Upon presentation of any Security of such series that is to be
redeemed in part only, the Company shall execute and the Trustee shall
authenticate and the office or agency where the Security is presented shall
deliver to the holder thereof, at the expense of the Company, a new Security of
the same series of authorized denominations in principal amount equal to the
unredeemed portion of the Security so presented.

      Section 3.04 Sinking Fund.

      The provisions of Sections 3.04, 3.05 and 3.06 shall be applicable to any
sinking fund for the retirement of Securities of a series, except as otherwise
specified as contemplated by Section 2.01 for Securities of such series.

      The minimum amount of any sinking fund payment provided for by the terms
of Securities of any series is herein referred to as a "mandatory sinking fund
payment," and any payment in excess of such minimum amount provided for by the
terms of Securities of any series

                                       19

is herein referred to as an "optional sinking fund payment". If provided for by
the terms of Securities of any series, the cash amount of any sinking fund
payment may be subject to reduction as provided in Section 3.05. Each sinking
fund payment shall be applied to the redemption of Securities of any series as
provided for by the terms of Securities of such series.

      Section 3.05 Satisfaction of Sinking Fund Payments with Securities.

      The Company (i) may deliver Outstanding Securities of a series (other than
any Securities previously called for redemption) and (ii) may apply as a credit
Securities of a series that have been redeemed either at the election of the
Company pursuant to the terms of such Securities or through the application of
permitted optional sinking fund payments pursuant to the terms of such
Securities, in each case in satisfaction of all or any part of any sinking fund
payment with respect to the Securities of such series required to be made
pursuant to the terms of such Securities as provided for by the terms of such
series, provided that such Securities have not been previously so credited. Such
Securities shall be received and credited for such purpose by the Trustee at the
redemption price specified in such Securities for redemption through operation
of the sinking fund and the amount of such sinking fund payment shall be reduced
accordingly.

      Section 3.06 Redemption of Securities for Sinking Fund.

      Not less than 45 days prior to each sinking fund payment date for any
series of Securities, the Company will deliver to the Trustee an Officers'
Certificate specifying the amount of the next ensuing sinking fund payment for
that series pursuant to the terms of the series, the portion thereof, if any,
that is to be satisfied by delivering and crediting Securities of that series
pursuant to Section 3.05 and the basis for such credit and will, together with
such Officers' Certificate, deliver to the Trustee any Securities to be so
delivered. Not less than 30 days before each such sinking fund payment date the
Trustee shall select the Securities to be redeemed upon such sinking fund
payment date in the manner specified in Section 3.02 and cause notice of the
redemption thereof to be given in the name of and at the expense of the Company
in the manner provided in Section 3.02. Such notice having been duly given, the
redemption of such Securities shall be made upon the terms and in the manner
stated in Section 3.03.

                                   ARTICLE IV

                                CERTAIN COVENANTS

      Section 4.01 Payment of Principal, Premium and Interest.

      (a) The Company shall pay or cause to be paid the principal of and
premium, if any, and interest (including interest accruing during any Deferral
Period) on the Securities on or prior to the dates and in the manner provided in
such Securities or pursuant to this Indenture. An installment of principal,
premium, if any, or interest shall be considered paid on the applicable due date
if on such date the Trustee or the Paying Agent holds, in accordance with this
Indenture, money sufficient to pay all of such installment then due.

      (b) Notwithstanding the provisions of Section 4.01(a) or any other
provision herein to the contrary, the Company shall have the right, as provided
in an Officer's Certificate or Supplemental Indenture issued pursuant to Section
2.01, in its sole and absolute discretion at any

                                       20

time and from time to time while the Securities of any series are outstanding,
so long as no Event of Default with respect to such series of Securities has
occurred and is continuing, to defer payments of interest by extending the
interest payment period for such series of Securities for the maximum
consecutive period, if any, specified for such series of Securities, provided
that such Deferral Period (or any extension thereof) may not extend beyond the
Stated Maturity date or Redemption Date of any Security of such series, and must
end on an Interest Payment Date or, if the Securities are redeemed, on an
Interest Payment Date or the Redemption Date for such Securities, and provided
further that at the end of each Deferral Period the Company shall pay all
interest then accrued and unpaid (together with interest thereon to the extent
permitted by applicable law at the rate accruing on such Securities). Prior to
the termination of a Deferral Period, the Company may shorten or may further
extend the interest payment period for such series of Securities, provided that
such Deferral Period together with all such previous and further extensions may
not exceed the maximum consecutive period specified for such series of
Securities, end on a date other than an Interest Payment Date or extend beyond
the Stated Maturity date or Redemption Date of any Security of such series. The
Company shall give the Trustee written notice of the Company's election to begin
a Deferral Period for any series of Securities and any shortening or extension
thereof at least five Business Days prior to the earlier of (i) the date the
interest on such Securities or distributions on the related Preferred Securities
are payable or the date the trustees of a MetLife Trust are required to give
notice to holders of Preferred Securities of such MetLife Trust of the record
date or the date such distributions are payable, but in any event not less than
five Business Days prior to such record date. The Company shall give or cause
the Trustee to give notice (a form of which shall be provided by the Company to
the Trustee) of the Company's election to begin a Deferral Period to the Holders
by first class mail, postage prepaid.

      Section 4.02 Maintenance of Office or Agency.

      So long as any series of the Securities remain Outstanding, the Company
agrees to maintain an office or agency in the Borough of Manhattan, the City and
State of New York, with respect to each such series and at such other location
or locations as may be designated as provided in this Section 4.02, where (i)
Securities of that series may be presented for payment, (ii) Securities of that
series may be presented as hereinabove authorized for registration of transfer
and exchange, and (iii) notices and demands to or upon the Company in respect of
the Securities of that series and this Indenture may be given or served, such
designation to continue with respect to such office or agency until the Company
shall, by written notice signed by its President or a Vice President and
delivered to the Trustee, designate some other office or agency for such
purposes or any of them. If at any time the Company shall fail to maintain any
such required office or agency or shall fail to furnish the Trustee with the
address thereof, such presentations, notices and demands may be made or served
at the Corporate Trust Office of the Trustee, and the Company hereby appoints
the Trustee as its agent to receive all such presentations, notices and demands.

      The Company may also from time to time designate one or more other offices
or agencies where the Securities of one or more series may be presented or
surrendered for any or all such purposes and may from time to time rescind such
designations; provided, however, that no such designation or rescission shall in
any manner relieve the Company of its obligation to maintain an office or agency
in each Place of Payment for Securities of any series for such purposes. The

                                       21

Company will give prompt written notice to the Trustee of any such designation
or rescission and of any change in the location of any such other office or
agency.

      Section 4.03 Paying Agents.

      (a) If the Company shall appoint one or more Paying Agents for all or any
series of the Securities, other than the Trustee, the Company will cause each
such Paying Agent to execute and deliver to the Trustee an instrument in which
such agent shall agree with the Trustee, subject to the provisions of this
Section:

            (1) that it will hold all sums held by it as such agent for the
      payment of the principal of and premium, if any or interest on the
      Securities of that series (whether such sums have been paid to it by the
      Company or by any other obligor of such Securities) in trust for the
      benefit of the Persons entitled thereto;

            (2) that it will give the Trustee notice of any failure by the
      Company (or by any other obligor of such Securities) to make any payment
      of the principal of and premium, if any or interest on the Securities of
      that series when the same shall be due and payable;

            (3) that it will, at any time during the continuance of any failure
      referred to in the preceding paragraph (a)(2) above, upon the written
      request of the Trustee, forthwith pay to the Trustee all sums so held in
      trust by such Paying Agent; and

            (4) that it will perform all other duties of Paying Agent as set
      forth in this Indenture.

      (b) If the Company shall act as its own Paying Agent with respect to any
series of the Securities, it will on or before each due date of the principal
of, and premium, if any, or interest on Securities of that series, set aside,
segregate and hold in trust for the benefit of the Persons entitled thereto a
sum sufficient to pay such principal, and premium, if any, or interest so
becoming due on Securities of that series until such sums shall be paid to such
Persons or otherwise disposed of as herein provided and will promptly notify the
Trustee of such action, or any failure (by it or any other obligor on such
Securities) to take such action. Whenever the Company shall have one or more
Paying Agents for any series of Securities, it will, prior to each due date of
the principal of, and premium, if any, or interest on any Securities of that
series, deposit with the Paying Agent a sum sufficient to pay the principal, and
premium, if any, or interest so becoming due, such sum to be held in trust for
the benefit of the Persons entitled to such principal, premium or interest, and
(unless such Paying Agent is the Trustee) the Company will promptly notify the
Trustee of this action or failure so to act.

      (c) Notwithstanding anything in this Section to the contrary, (i) the
agreement to hold sums in trust as provided in this Section is subject to the
provisions of Section 11.05, and (ii) the Company may at any time, for the
purpose of obtaining the satisfaction and discharge of this Indenture or for any
other purpose, pay, or direct any Paying Agent to pay, to the Trustee all sums
held in trust by the Company or such Paying Agent, such sums to be held by the
Trustee upon the same terms and conditions as those upon which such sums were
held by the Company

                                       22

or such Paying Agent; and, upon such payment by any Paying Agent to the Trustee,
such Paying Agent shall be released from all further liability with respect to
such money.

      (d) Except as otherwise specified with respect to a series of Securities
in accordance with the provisions of Section 2.01, any money or Government
Obligations deposited with the Trustee or any Paying Agent, or then held by the
Company, in trust for the payment of the principal of or any premium or interest
on any Security of any series and remaining unclaimed for two years after such
principal, premium or interest has become due and payable shall be paid to the
Company at its option at the request of the Company, or (if then held by the
Company) shall be discharged from such trust; and the holder of such Security
shall thereafter, as an unsecured general creditor, look only to the Company for
payment thereof, and all liability of the Trustee or such Paying Agent with
respect to such trust money, and all liability of the Company as trustee
thereof, shall thereupon cease; provided, however, that the Trustee or such
Paying Agent, before being required to make any such repayment, may at the
expense of the Company cause to be published once, in a newspaper published in
the English language, customarily published on each Business Day and of general
circulation in the Borough of Manhattan, The City of New York, notice that such
money remains unclaimed and that, after a date specified therein, which shall
not be less than 30 days from the date of such publication, any unclaimed
balance of such money then remaining will be repaid to the Company.

      Section 4.04 Statement by Officers as to Default.

      The Company will deliver to the Trustee, within 120 days after the end of
each fiscal year of the Company ending after the date hereof, an Officers'
Certificate, stating whether or not to the best knowledge of the signers thereof
the Company is in default in the performance and observance of any of the terms,
provisions and conditions of this Indenture (without regard to any period of
grace or requirement of notice provided hereunder) and, if the Company shall be
in default, specifying all such defaults and the nature and status thereof of
which they may have knowledge.

      Section 4.05 Existence.

      Subject to Article Ten, the Company will do or cause to be done all things
necessary to preserve and keep in full force and effect its existence, rights
(charter and statutory) and franchises; provided, however, that the Company
shall not be required to preserve any such right or franchise if the Board of
Directors shall determine that the preservation thereof is no longer desirable
in the conduct of the business of the Company and that the loss thereof is not
disadvantageous in any material respect to the holders.

      Section 4.06 Payment of Taxes.

      The Company will pay or discharge or cause to be paid or discharged,
before the same shall become delinquent, all taxes, assessments and governmental
charges levied or imposed upon the Company or any Subsidiary or upon the income,
profits or property of the Company or any Subsidiary, which, if unpaid, might by
law become a lien upon the property of the Company or any Subsidiary; provided,
however, that the Company shall not be required to pay or discharge or cause to
be paid or discharged any such tax, assessment or governmental charge

                                       23

whose amount, applicability or validity is being contested in good faith by
appropriate proceedings.

      Section 4.07 Covenants as to MetLife Trusts.

      In the event Securities are issued to a MetLife Trust or a trustee of such
trust in connection with the issuance of Trust Securities of such MetLife Trust,
for so long as such Trust Securities remain outstanding, the Company will
covenant (i) to directly or indirectly maintain 100% ownership of the Common
Securities of such MetLife Trust; provided, however, that any permitted
successor of the Company under this Indenture may succeed to the Company's
ownership of such Common Securities, (ii) to use its reasonable efforts to cause
such MetLife Trust (a) to remain a statutory business trust, except in
connection with the distribution of Securities to the holders of Trust
Securities in liquidation of such MetLife Trust, the redemption of all of the
Trust Securities of such MetLife Trust, or certain mergers, consolidations or
amalgamations, each as permitted by the Declaration of such MetLife Trust, and
(b) to continue to be classified as a grantor trust for United States federal
income tax purposes and (iii) to use its reasonable efforts to cause each holder
of Trust Securities to be treated as owning an undivided beneficial interest in
the Securities.

      Section 4.08 Waiver of Certain Covenants.

      Except as otherwise specified as contemplated by Section 2.01 for
Securities of such series, the Company may, with respect to the Securities of
any series, omit in any particular instance to comply with any term, provision
or condition set forth in any covenant provided pursuant to Sections 2.01(16),
9.01(4) or 9.01(7) for the benefit of the holders of such series or in Section
4.06, if before the time for such compliance the holders of at least a majority
in aggregate principal amount of the Outstanding Securities of such series
shall, by act of such holders, either waive such compliance in such instance or
generally waive compliance with such term, provision or condition, but no such
waiver shall extend to or affect such term, provision or condition except to the
extent so expressly waived, and, until such waiver shall become effective, the
obligations of the Company and the duties of the Trustee in respect of any such
term, provision or condition shall remain in full force and effect.

      Section 4.09 Appointment to Fill Vacancy in Office of Trustee.

      The Company, whenever necessary to avoid or fill a vacancy in the office
of Trustee, will appoint, in the manner provided in Section 7.10, a Trustee, so
that there shall at all times be a Trustee hereunder.

      Section 4.10 Compliance with Consolidation Provisions.

      The Company will not, while any of the Securities remain Outstanding,
consolidate with, or merge into, or merge into itself, or sell or convey all or
substantially all of its property to any other company unless the provisions of
Article Ten hereof are complied with.

                                       24

ARTICLE V

                       SECURITYHOLDERS' LISTS AND REPORTS
                         BY THE COMPANY AND THE TRUSTEE

      Section 5.01 Company to Furnish Trustee Names and Addresses of
Securityholders.

      The Company will furnish or cause to be furnished to the Trustee (a) on a
monthly basis on each regular record date a list, in such form as the Trustee
may reasonably require, of the names and addresses of the holders of each series
of Securities as of such regular record date, provided that the Company shall
not be obligated to furnish or cause to furnish such list at any time that the
list shall not differ in any respect from the most recent list furnished to the
Trustee by the Company and (b) at such other times as the Trustee may request in
writing within 30 days after the receipt by the Company of any such request, a
list of similar form and content as of a date not more than 15 days prior to the
time such list is furnished; provided, however, that, in either case, no such
list need be furnished for any series for which the Trustee shall be the
Security Registrar.

      Section 5.02 Preservation Of Information; Communications With
Securityholders.

      (a) The Trustee shall preserve, in as current a form as is reasonably
practicable, all information as to the names and addresses of the holders of
Securities contained in the most recent list furnished to it as provided in
Section 5.01 and as to the names and addresses of holders of Securities received
by the Trustee in its capacity as Security Registrar (if acting in such
capacity).

      (b) The Trustee may destroy any list furnished to it as provided in
Section 5.01 upon receipt of a new list so furnished.

      (c) Securityholders may communicate as provided in Section 312(b) of the
Trust Indenture Act with other Securityholders with respect to their rights
under this Indenture or under the Securities.

      Section 5.03 Reports by the Company.

      (a) The Company covenants and agrees to file with the Trustee, within 15
days after the Company is required to file the same with the Commission, copies
of the annual reports and of the information, documents and other reports (or
copies of such portions of any of the foregoing as the Commission may from time
to time by rules and regulations prescribe) that the Company may be required to
file with the Commission pursuant to Section 13 or Section 15(d) of the Exchange
Act; or, if the Company is not required to file information, documents or
reports pursuant to either of such sections, then to file with the Trustee and
the Commission, in accordance with the rules and regulations prescribed from
time to time by the Commission, such of the supplementary and periodic
information, documents and reports that may be required pursuant to Section 13
of the Exchange Act, in respect of a security listed and registered on a

                                       25

national securities exchange as may be prescribed from time to time in such
rules and regulations.

      (b) The Company covenants and agrees to file with the Trustee and the
Commission, in accordance with the rules and regulations prescribed from to time
by the Commission, such additional information, documents and reports with
respect to compliance by the Company with the conditions and covenants provided
for in this Indenture as may be required from time to time by such rules and
regulations.

      (c) The Company covenants and agrees to transmit to the Securityholders,
such summaries of any information, documents and reports required to be filed by
the Company pursuant to subsections (a) and (b) of this Section as may be
required by the Trust Indenture Act and the rules and regulations prescribed
from time to time by the Commission.

      Section 5.04 Reports by the Trustee.

      (a) On or before July 15 in each year in which any of the Securities are
Outstanding, the Trustee shall transmit by mail, first class postage prepaid, to
the Securityholders, as their names and addresses appear upon the Security
Register, a brief report dated as of the preceding May 15, if and to the extent
required under Section 313(a) of the Trust Indenture Act.

      (b) The Trustee shall comply with Sections 313(b) and 313(c) of the Trust
Indenture Act.

      (c) A copy of each such report shall, at the time of such transmission to
Securityholders, be filed by the Trustee with the Company, with each stock
exchange upon which any Securities are listed (if so listed) and also with the
Commission. The Company agrees to notify the Trustee when any Securities become
listed on any stock exchange.

                                   ARTICLE VI

                   REMEDIES OF THE TRUSTEE AND SECURITYHOLDERS
                               ON EVENT OF DEFAULT

      Section 6.01 Events of Default.

      (a) Whenever used herein with respect to Securities of a particular
series, "Event of Default" means any one or more of the following events that
has occurred and is continuing, unless such event is specifically deleted or
modified in accordance with Section 2.01:

            (1) the Company defaults in the payment of any installment of
      interest upon any of the Securities of that series, as and when the same
      shall become due and payable, and continuance of such default for a period
      of 30 days; provided, however, that during any Deferral Period for the
      Securities of that series, failure to pay interest on the Securities of
      that series shall not constitute a default in the payment of interest for
      this purpose; and, provided, further, that a valid extension of an
      interest payment period by the Company in accordance with the terms of any
      indenture supplemental hereto, shall not constitute a default in the
      payment of interest for this purpose;

                                       26

(2) the Company defaults in the payment of the principal of, or
      premium, if any, on any of the Securities of that series as and when the
      same shall become due and payable whether at maturity, upon redemption,
      because of acceleration or otherwise, or in any payment required by any
      sinking or analogous fund established with respect to that series;
      provided, however, that a valid extension of the maturity of such
      Securities in accordance with the terms of any indenture supplemental
      hereto shall not constitute a default in the payment of principal or
      premium, if any;

            (3) the Company fails to observe or perform any other of its
      covenants or agreements with respect to that series contained in this
      Indenture or otherwise established with respect to that series of
      Securities pursuant to Section 2.01 hereof (other than a covenant or
      agreement that has been expressly included in this Indenture solely for
      the benefit of one or more series of Securities other than such series)
      for a period of 90 days after the date on which written notice of such
      failure, requiring the same to be remedied and stating that such notice is
      a "Notice of Default" hereunder, shall have been given to the Company by
      the Trustee, by registered or certified mail, or to the Company and the
      Trustee by the holders of at least 25% in principal amount of the
      Securities of that series at the time Outstanding;

            (4) an event of default, as defined in any mortgage, indenture or
      instrument under which there may be issued, or by which there may be
      secured or evidenced, any Indebtedness for money borrowed of the Company
      (other than a default under this Indenture with respect to Securities of
      any series or a default with respect to any non-recourse Indebtedness),
      whether such Indebtedness now exists or shall hereafter be created, shall
      happen and shall result in a principal amount in excess of $100,000,000 of
      Indebtedness becoming or being declared due and payable prior to the date
      on which it would otherwise have become due and payable, and such
      acceleration shall not have been rescinded or annulled, or such
      Indebtedness shall not have been discharged, within a period of 15 days
      after there has been given, by registered or certified United States mail,
      to the Company by the Trustee or to the Company and the Trustee by the
      holders of at least 25% in aggregate principal amount of the Outstanding
      Securities of that series a written notice specifying such event of
      default and requiring the Company to cause such acceleration to be
      rescinded or annulled or to cause such Indebtedness to be discharged and
      stating that such notice is a "Notice of Default" hereunder;

            (5) the entry by a court of competent jurisdiction of:

                  (i) a decree or order for relief in respect of the Company in
            an involuntary proceeding under any applicable Bankruptcy Law and
            such decree or order shall remain unstayed and in effect for a
            period of 60 consecutive days;

                  (ii) a decree or order adjudging the Company to be insolvent,
            or approving a petition seeking reorganization, arrangement,
            adjustment or composition of the Company and such decree or order
            shall remain unstayed and in effect for a period of 60 consecutive
            days; or

                                       27

(iii) a final and non-appealable order appointing a Custodian
            of the Company or of any substantial part of the property of the
            Company, or ordering the winding up or liquidation of the affairs of
            the Company;

            (6) the Company pursuant to or within the meaning of any Bankruptcy
      Law: (i) commences a voluntary case or proceeding; (ii) consents to the
      entry of an order for relief against it in an involuntary case or
      proceeding; (iii) files a petition or answer or consent seeking
      reorganization or relief or consents to such filing or to the appointment
      of or taking possession by a Custodian of it or for all or substantially
      all of its property, and such Custodian is not discharged within 60 days;
      (iv) makes a general assignment for the benefit of its creditors; or (v)
      admits in writing its inability to pay its debts generally as they become
      due;

            (7) in the event Securities are issued to a MetLife Trust or a
      trustee of such trust in connection with the issuance of Trust Securities
      by such MetLife Trust, such MetLife Trust shall have voluntarily or
      involuntarily dissolved, wound up its business or otherwise terminated its
      existence, except in connection with (i) the distribution of Securities to
      holders of Trust Securities in liquidation of their interests in such
      MetLife Trust, (ii) the redemption of all of the outstanding Trust
      Securities of such MetLife Trust or (iii) certain mergers, consolidations
      or amalgamations, each as permitted by the Declaration of such MetLife
      Trust; or

            (8) any other Event of Default provided for pursuant to Section 2.01
      with respect to Securities of that series.

      (b) Except as otherwise specified with respect to a series of Securities
in accordance with the provisions of Section 2.01, if an Event of Default (other
than an Event of Default specified in Sections 6.01(a)(5) or 6.01(a)(6)) with
respect to Securities of any series at the time Outstanding occurs and is
continuing, either the Trustee or the holders of not less than 25% in aggregate
principal amount of the Securities of that series then Outstanding hereunder, by
notice in writing to the Company (and to the Trustee if given by such
Securityholders), may declare the principal of all the Securities of that series
(or, if any Securities of that series are Original Issue Discount Securities,
such portion of the principal amount as may be specified in the terms of such
series) to be due and payable immediately, and upon any such declaration the
same shall become and shall be immediately due and payable. If an Event of
Default specified in Sections 6.01(a)(5) or 6.01(a)(6) with respect to
Securities of any series at the time Outstanding occurs, the principal amount of
all the Securities of that series (or, if any Securities of that series are
Original Issue Discount Securities, such portion of the principal amount of such
Securities as may be specified by the terms thereof) shall automatically, and
without any declaration or other action on the part of the Trustee or any
holder, become immediately due and payable.

      (c) At any time after the principal of the Securities of that series shall
have been so declared due and payable, and before any judgment or decree for the
payment of the moneys due shall have been obtained or entered as hereinafter
provided, the holders of a majority in aggregate principal amount of the
Securities of that series then Outstanding hereunder, by written notice to the
Company and the Trustee, may rescind and annul such declaration and its
consequences if: (i) the Company has paid or deposited with the Trustee a sum
sufficient to pay

                                       28

all matured installments of interest upon all the Securities of that series and
the principal of, and premium, if any, on any and all Securities of that series
that shall have become due otherwise than by acceleration (with interest upon
such principal and premium, if any, and, to the extent that such payment is
enforceable under applicable law, upon overdue installments of interest, at the
rate per annum or Yield to Maturity (in the case of Original Issue Discount
Securities) expressed in the Securities of that series (or at the respective
rates of interest or Yields to Maturity of all the Securities, as the case may
be) to the date of such payment or deposit) and the amount payable to the
Trustee under Section 7.06, and (ii) any and all Events of Default under the
Indenture with respect to such series, other than the nonpayment of principal on
Securities of that series (or, if any Securities of that series are Original
Issue Discount Securities, such portion of the principal amount as may be
specified in the terms of such series) that shall not have become due by their
terms, shall have been remedied or waived as provided in Section 6.08.

      No such rescission and annulment shall extend to or shall affect any
subsequent default or impair any right consequent thereon.

      (d) In case the Trustee shall have proceeded to enforce any right with
respect to Securities of that series under this Indenture and such proceedings
shall have been discontinued or abandoned because of such rescission or
annulment or for any other reason or shall have been determined adversely to the
Trustee, then and in every such case the Company, and the Trustee shall be
restored respectively to their former positions and rights hereunder, and all
rights, remedies and powers of the Company and the Trustee shall continue as
though no such proceedings had been taken.

      Section 6.02 Collection of Indebtedness and Suits for Enforcement by
Trustee.

      (a) The Company covenants that (1) in case it shall default in the payment
of any installment of interest on any of the Securities of a series, or any
payment required by any sinking or analogous fund established with respect to
that series as and when the same shall have become due and payable, and such
default shall have continued for a period of 90 Business Days, or (2) in case it
shall default in the payment of the principal of, or premium, if any, on any of
the Securities of a series when the same shall have become due and payable,
whether upon maturity of the Securities of a series or upon redemption or upon
declaration or otherwise, then, upon demand of the Trustee, the Company will pay
to the Trustee, for the benefit of the holders of the Securities of that series,
the whole amount that then shall have been become due and payable on all such
Securities for principal, and premium, if any, or interest, or both, as the case
may be, with interest upon the overdue principal, and premium, if any, and (to
the extent that payment of such interest is enforceable under applicable law)
upon overdue installments of interest at the rate per annum expressed in the
Securities of that series; and, in addition thereto, such further amount as
shall be sufficient to cover the costs and expenses of collection, and the
amount payable to the Trustee under Section 7.06.

      (b) If the Company shall fail to pay such amounts forthwith upon such
demand, the Trustee, in its own name and as trustee of an express trust, shall
be entitled and empowered to institute any action or proceedings at law or in
equity for the collection of the sums so due and unpaid, and may prosecute any
such action or proceeding to judgment or final decree, and may enforce any such
judgment or final decree against the Company or other obligor upon the

                                       29

Securities of that series and collect the moneys adjudged or decreed to be
payable in the manner provided by law out of the property of the Company or
other obligor upon the Securities of that series, wherever situated.

      (c) In case of any receivership, insolvency, liquidation, bankruptcy,
reorganization, readjustment, arrangement, composition or judicial proceedings
affecting the Company, or its creditors or property, the Trustee shall have
power to intervene in such proceedings and take any action therein that may be
permitted by the court and shall (except as may be otherwise provided by law) be
entitled to file such proofs of claim and other papers and documents as may be
necessary or advisable in order to have the claims of the Trustee and of the
holders of Securities of such series allowed for the entire amount due and
payable by the Company under the Indenture at the date of institution of such
proceedings and for any additional amount that may become due and payable by the
Company after such date, and to collect and receive any moneys or other property
payable or deliverable on any such claim, and to distribute the same after the
deduction of the amount payable to the Trustee under Section 7.06; and any
receiver, assignee or trustee in bankruptcy or reorganization is hereby
authorized by each of the holders of Securities of such series to make such
payments to the Trustee, and, in the event that the Trustee shall consent to the
making of such payments directly to such Securityholders, to pay to the Trustee
any amount due it under Section 7.06.

      (d) All rights of action and of asserting claims under this Indenture, or
under any of the terms established with respect to Securities of that series,
may be enforced by the Trustee without the possession of any of such Securities,
or the production thereof at any trial or other proceeding relative thereto, and
any such suit or proceeding instituted by the Trustee shall be brought in its
own name as trustee of an express trust, and any recovery of judgment shall,
after provision for payment to the Trustee of any amounts due under Section
7.06, be for the ratable benefit of the holders of the Securities of such
series.

      In case of an Event of Default hereunder, the Trustee may in its
discretion proceed to protect and enforce the rights vested in it by this
Indenture by such appropriate judicial proceedings as the Trustee shall deem
most effectual to protect and enforce any of such rights, either at law or in
equity or in bankruptcy or otherwise, whether for the specific enforcement of
any covenant or agreement contained in the Indenture or in aid of the exercise
of any power granted in this Indenture, or to enforce any other legal or
equitable right vested in the Trustee by this Indenture or by law.

      Nothing contained herein shall be deemed to authorize the Trustee to
authorize or consent to or accept or adopt on behalf of any Securityholder any
plan of reorganization, arrangement, adjustment or composition affecting the
Securities of that series or the rights of any holder thereof or to authorize
the Trustee to vote in respect of the claim of any Securityholder in any such
proceeding.

      Section 6.03 Application of Moneys Collected.

      Any moneys collected by the Trustee pursuant to this Article with respect
to a particular series of Securities shall be applied in the following order, at
the date or dates fixed by the Trustee and, in case of the distribution of such
moneys on account of principal, or premium, if

                                       30

any, or interest, upon presentation of the Securities of that series, and
notation thereon the payment, if only partially paid, and upon surrender thereof
if fully paid:

      FIRST: To the payment of costs and expenses of collection and of all
amounts payable to the Trustee under Section 7.06;

      SECOND: To the payment of the amounts then due and unpaid upon Securities
of such series for principal, and premium, if any, and interest, in respect of
which or for the benefit of which such money has been collected, ratably,
without preference or priority of any kind, according to the amounts due and
payable on such Securities for principal, and premium, if any, and interest,
respectively; and

      THIRD: To the payment of the remainder, if any, to the Company, its
successors or assigns or to whomever may be lawfully entitled to receive the
same or as a court of competent jurisdiction may direct.

      Section 6.04 Limitation on Suits.

      No holder of any Security of any series shall have any right by virtue or
by availing of any provision of this Indenture to institute any suit, action or
proceeding in equity or at law upon or under or with respect to this Indenture
or for the appointment of a receiver or trustee, or for any other remedy
hereunder, unless (i) such holder previously shall have given to the Trustee
written notice of an Event of Default and of the continuance thereof with
respect to the Securities of such series specifying such Event of Default, as
hereinbefore provided; (ii) the holders of not less than 25% in aggregate
principal amount of the Securities of such series then Outstanding shall have
made written request upon the Trustee to institute such action, suit or
proceeding in its own name as trustee hereunder; (iii) such holder or holders
shall have offered to the Trustee such reasonable indemnity as it may require
against the costs, expenses and liabilities to be incurred therein or thereby;
and (iv) the Trustee for 60 days after its receipt of such notice, request and
offer of indemnity, shall have failed to institute any such action, suit or
proceeding and (v) during such 60 day period, the holders of a majority in
principal amount of the Securities of that series do not give the Trustee a
direction inconsistent with the request.

      Notwithstanding anything contained herein to the contrary, any other
provisions of this Indenture, the right of any holder of any Security to receive
payment of the principal of, and premium, if any, and interest on such Security,
as therein provided, on or after the respective due dates expressed in such
Security (or in the case of redemption, on the redemption date), or to institute
suit for the enforcement of any such payment on or after such respective dates
or redemption date, shall not be impaired or affected without the consent of
such holder and by accepting a Security hereunder it is expressly understood,
intended and covenanted by the taker and holder of every Security of such series
with every other such taker and holder and the Trustee, that no one or more
holders of Securities of such series shall have any right in any manner
whatsoever by virtue or by availing of any provision of this Indenture to
affect, disturb or prejudice the rights of the holders of any other of such
Securities, or to obtain or seek to obtain priority over or preference to any
other such holder, or to enforce any right under this Indenture, except in the
manner herein provided and for the equal, ratable and common benefit of all
holders of Securities of such series. For the protection and enforcement of the
provisions of this

                                       31

Section, each and every Securityholder and the Trustee shall be entitled to such
relief as can be given either at law or in equity.

      Section 6.05 Rights and Remedies Cumulative; Delay or Omission Not Waiver.

      (a) Except as otherwise provided in Section 2.07, all powers and remedies
given by this Article to the Trustee or to the Securityholders shall, to the
extent permitted by law, be deemed cumulative and not exclusive of any other
powers and remedies available to the Trustee or the holders of the Securities,
by judicial proceedings or otherwise, to enforce the performance or observance
of the covenants and agreements contained in this Indenture or otherwise
established with respect to such Securities.

      (b) No delay or omission of the Trustee or of any holder of any of the
Securities to exercise any right or power accruing upon any Event of Default
occurring and continuing as aforesaid shall impair any such right or power, or
shall be construed to be a waiver of any such default or on acquiescence
therein; and, subject to the provisions of Section 6.04, every power and remedy
given by this Article or by law to the Trustee or the Securityholders may be
exercised from time to time, and as often as shall be deemed expedient, by the
Trustee or by the Securityholders.

      Section 6.06 Control by Securityholders.

      The holders of a majority in aggregate principal amount of the Securities
of any series at the time Outstanding, determined in accordance with Section
8.04, shall have the right to direct the time, method and place of conducting
any proceeding for any remedy available to the Trustee, or exercising any trust
or power conferred on the Trustee with respect to such series; provided,
however, that such direction shall not be in conflict with any rule of law or
with this Indenture or be unduly prejudicial to the rights of holders of
Securities of any other series at the time Outstanding determined in accordance
with Section 8.04. Subject to the provisions of Section 7.01, the Trustee shall
have the right to decline to follow any such direction if the Trustee shall
determine in good faith that the proceeding so directed would expose the Trustee
to personal liability.

      Section 6.07 Undertaking to Pay Costs.

      All parties to this Indenture agree, and each holder of any Securities by
such holder's acceptance thereof shall be deemed to have agreed, that any court
may in its discretion require, in any suit for the enforcement of any right or
remedy under this Indenture, or in any suit against the Trustee for any action
taken or omitted by it as Trustee, the filing by any party litigant in such suit
of an undertaking to pay the costs of such suit, and that such court may in its
discretion assess reasonable costs, including reasonable attorneys' fees,
against any party litigant in such suit, having due regard to the merits and
good faith of the claims or defenses made by such party litigant; but the
provisions of this Section shall not apply to any suit instituted by the
Trustee, to any suit instituted by any Securityholder, or group of
Securityholders, holding more than 10% in aggregate principal amount of the
Outstanding Securities of any series, or to any suit instituted by any
Securityholder for the enforcement of the payment of the principal of, or
premium, if any,

                                       32

or interest on any Security of such series, on or after the respective due dates
expressed in such Security or established pursuant to this Indenture.

      Section 6.08 Waiver of Past Defaults.

      The holders of not less than a majority in principal amount of the
Outstanding Securities of any series, determined in accordance with Section
8.04, may on behalf of the holders of all the Securities of such series waive
any past default hereunder with respect to such series and its consequences,
except a default

            (1) in the payment of the principal of or any premium or interest on
      any Security of such series, or

            (2) in respect of a covenant or provision hereof which under Article
      Nine cannot be modified or amended without the consent of the holder of
      each Outstanding Security of such series affected; provided, however, that
      if the Securities of such series are held by a MetLife Trust or a trustee
      of such trust, such waiver or modification to such waiver shall not be
      effective until the holders of a majority in liquidation preference of
      Trust Securities of the applicable MetLife Trust shall have consented to
      such waiver or modification to such waiver; provided, further, that if the
      consent of the holder of each outstanding Security is required, such
      waiver shall not be effective until each holder of the Trust Securities of
      the applicable MetLife Trust shall have consented to such waiver.

      Upon any such waiver, such default shall cease to exist, and any Event of
Default arising therefrom shall be deemed to have been cured, for every purpose
of this Indenture; but no such waiver shall extend to any subsequent or other
default or impair any right consequent thereon.

                                  ARTICLE VII

                             CONCERNING THE TRUSTEE

      Section 7.01 Certain Duties and Responsibilities of Trustee.

      (a) The Trustee, prior to the occurrence of an Event of Default with
respect to the Securities of a series and after the curing of all Events of
Default with respect to the Securities of that series that may have occurred,
shall undertake to perform with respect to the Securities of such series such
duties and only such duties as are specifically set forth in this Indenture, and
no implied covenants shall be read into this Indenture against the Trustee. In
case an Event of Default with respect to the Securities of a series has occurred
(that has not been cured or waived), the Trustee shall exercise with respect to
Securities of that series such of the rights and powers vested in it by this
Indenture, and use the same degree of care and skill in their exercise, as a
prudent man would exercise or use under the circumstances in the conduct of his
own affairs.

      (b) No provision of this Indenture shall be construed to relieve the
Trustee from liability for its own negligent action, its own negligent failure
to act, or its own willful misconduct, except that:

                                       33

(1) prior to the occurrence of an Event of Default with respect to
      the Securities of a series and after the curing or waiving of all such
      Events of Default with respect to that series that may have occurred:

                  (a) the duties and obligations of the Trustee shall with
            respect to the Securities of such series be determined solely by the
            express provisions of this Indenture, and the Trustee shall not be
            liable with respect to the Securities of such series except for the
            performance of such duties and obligations as are specifically set
            forth in this Indenture, and no implied covenants or obligations
            shall be read into this Indenture against the Trustee; and

                  (b) in the absence of bad faith on the part of the Trustee,
            the Trustee may with respect to the Securities of such series
            conclusively rely, as to the truth of the statements and the
            correctness of the opinions expressed therein, upon any certificates
            or opinions furnished to the Trustee and conforming to the
            requirements of this Indenture; but in the case of any such
            certificates or opinions that by any provision hereof are
            specifically required to be furnished to the Trustee, the Trustee
            shall be under a duty to examine the same to determine whether or
            not they conform to the requirements of this Indenture;

            (2) the Trustee shall not be liable for any error of judgment made
      in good faith by a Responsible Officer or Responsible Officers of the
      Trustee, unless it shall be proved that the Trustee was negligent in
      ascertaining the pertinent facts;

            (3) the Trustee shall not be liable with respect to any action taken
      or omitted to be taken by it in good faith in accordance with the
      direction of the holders of not less than a majority in principal amount
      of the Securities of any series at the time Outstanding relating to the
      time, method and place of conducting any proceeding for any remedy
      available to the Trustee, or exercising any trust or power conferred upon
      the Trustee under this Indenture with respect to the Securities of that
      series; and

            (4) None of the provisions contained in this Indenture shall require
      the Trustee to expend or risk its own funds or otherwise incur personal
      financial liability in the performance of any of its duties or in the
      exercise of any of its rights or powers, if there is reasonable ground for
      believing that the repayment of such funds or liability is not reasonably
      assured to it under the terms of this Indenture or adequate indemnity
      against such risk is not reasonably assured to it.

      Section 7.02 Certain Rights of Trustee.

      Except as otherwise provided in Section 7.01:

      (a) The Trustee may rely and shall be protected in acting or refraining
from acting upon any resolution, certificate, statement, instrument, opinion,
report, notice, request, consent, order, approval, bond, security or other paper
or document believed by it to be genuine and to have been signed or presented by
the proper party or parties;

                                       34

(b) Any request, direction, order or demand of the Company mentioned
herein shall be sufficiently evidenced by a Board Resolution or an instrument
signed in the name of the Company, by the President or any Vice President and by
the Secretary or an Assistant Secretary or the Treasurer or an Assistant
Treasurer thereof (unless other evidence in respect thereof is specifically
prescribed herein);

      (c) The Trustee may consult with counsel and the advice of such counsel or
any Opinion of Counsel shall be full and complete authorization and protection
in respect of any action taken or suffered or omitted hereunder in good faith
and in reliance thereon;

      (d) The Trustee shall be under no obligation to exercise any of the rights
or powers vested in it by this Indenture at the request, order or direction of
any of the Securityholders, pursuant to the provisions of this Indenture, unless
such Securityholders shall have offered to the Trustee reasonable security or
indemnity against the costs, expenses and liabilities that may be incurred
therein or thereby; nothing contained herein shall, however, relieve the Trustee
of the obligation, upon the occurrence of an Event of Default with respect to a
series of the Securities (that has not been cured or waived) to exercise with
respect to Securities of that series such of the rights and powers vested in it
by this Indenture, and to use the same degree of care and skill in their
exercise, as a prudent man would exercise or use under the circumstances in the
conduct of his own affairs;

      (e) The Trustee shall not be liable for any action taken or omitted to be
taken by it in good faith and believed by it to be authorized or within the
discretion or rights or powers conferred upon it by this Indenture;

      (f) The Trustee shall not be bound to make any investigation into the
facts or matters stated in any resolution, certificate, statement, instrument,
opinion, report, notice, request, consent, order, approval, bond, security, or
other papers or documents, unless requested in writing so to do by the holders
of not less than a majority in principal amount of the Outstanding Securities of
the particular series affected thereby (determined as provided in Section 8.04);
provided, however, that if the payment within a reasonable time to the Trustee
of the costs, expenses or liabilities likely to be incurred by it in the making
of such investigation is, in the opinion of the Trustee, not reasonably assured
to the Trustee by the security afforded to it by the terms of this Indenture,
the Trustee may require reasonable indemnity against such costs, expenses or
liabilities as a condition to so proceeding. The reasonable expense of every
such examination shall be paid by the Company or, if paid by the Trustee, shall
be repaid by the Company upon demand; and

      (g) The Trustee may execute any of the trusts or powers hereunder or
perform any duties hereunder either directly or by or through agents or
attorneys and the Trustee shall not be responsible for any misconduct or
negligence on the part of any agent or attorney appointed with due care by it
hereunder.

      Section 7.03 Trustee Not Responsible for Recitals or Issuance or
Securities.

      (a) The recitals contained herein and in the Securities shall be taken as
the statements of the Company, and the Trustee assumes no responsibility for the
correctness of the same.

                                       35

(b) The Trustee makes no representations as to the validity or sufficiency
of this Indenture or of the Securities.

      (c) The Trustee shall not be accountable for the use or application by the
Company of any of the Securities or of the proceeds of such Securities, or for
the use or application of any moneys paid over by the Trustee in accordance with
any provision of this Indenture or established pursuant to Section 2.01, or for
the use or application of any moneys received by any Paying Agent other than the
Trustee.

      Section 7.04 May Hold Securities.

      The Trustee or any Paying Agent or Security Registrar, in its individual
or any other capacity, may become the owner or pledgee of Securities with the
same rights it would have if it were not Trustee, Paying Agent or Security
Registrar.

      Section 7.05 Moneys Held in Trust.

      Subject to the provisions of Section 11.05, all moneys received by the
Trustee shall, until used or applied as herein provided, be held in trust for
the purposes for which they were received, but need not be segregated from other
funds except to the extent required by law. The Trustee shall be under no
liability for interest on any moneys received by it hereunder except such as it
may agree with the Company to pay thereon.

      Section 7.06 Compensation and Reimbursement.

      (a) The Company covenants and agrees to pay to the Trustee, and the
Trustee shall be entitled to, such reasonable compensation (which shall not be
limited by any provision of law in regard to the compensation of a trustee of an
express trust), as the Company, and the Trustee may from time to time agree in
writing, for all services rendered by it in the execution of the trusts hereby
created and in the exercise and performance of any of the powers and duties
hereunder of the Trustee, and, except as otherwise expressly provided herein,
the Company will pay or reimburse the Trustee upon its request for all
reasonable expenses, disbursements and advances incurred or made by the Trustee
in accordance with any of the provisions of this Indenture (including the
reasonable compensation and the expenses and disbursements of its counsel and of
all Persons not regularly in its employ) except any such expense, disbursement
or advance as may arise from its negligence or bad faith. The Company also
covenants to indemnify the Trustee (and its officers, agents, directors and
employees) for, and to hold it harmless against, any loss, liability or expense
incurred without negligence or bad faith on the part of the Trustee, arising out
of or in connection with the acceptance or administration of this trust,
including the costs and expenses of defending itself against any claim of
liability in the premises.

      (b) The obligations of the Company under this Section to compensate and
indemnify the Trustee and to pay or reimburse the Trustee for expenses,
disbursements and advances shall constitute additional indebtedness hereunder.
Such additional indebtedness shall be secured by a lien prior to that of the
Securities upon all property and funds held or collected by the Trustee as such,
except funds held in trust for the benefit of the holders of particular
Securities.

                                       36

Section 7.07 Reliance on Officers' Certificate.

      Except as otherwise provided in Section 7.01, whenever in the
administration of the provisions of this Indenture the Trustee shall deem it
necessary or desirable that a matter be proved or established prior to taking or
suffering or omitting to take any action hereunder, such matter (unless other
evidence in respect thereof be herein specifically prescribed) may, in the
absence of negligence or bad faith on the part of the Trustee, be deemed to be
conclusively proved and established by an Officers' Certificate delivered to the
Trustee and such certificate, in the absence of negligence or bad faith on the
part of the Trustee, shall be full warrant to the Trustee for any action taken,
suffered or omitted to be taken by it under the provisions of this Indenture
upon the faith thereof.

      Section 7.08 Disqualification; Conflicting Interests.

      If the Trustee has or shall acquire any "conflicting interest" within the
meaning of Section 310(b) of the Trust Indenture Act, the Trustee and the
Company shall in all respects comply with the provisions of Section 310(b) of
the Trust Indenture Act.

      Section 7.09 Corporate Trustee Required; Eligibility.

      There shall at all times be a Trustee with respect to the Securities
issued hereunder which shall at all times be a corporation organized and doing
business under the laws of the United States of America or any State or
Territory thereof or of the District of Columbia, or a corporation or other
Person permitted to act as trustee by the Commission, authorized under such laws
to exercise corporate trust powers, having a combined capital and surplus of at
least 50 million U.S. dollars ($50,000,000), and subject to supervision or
examination by federal, state, territorial, or District of Columbia authority.
If such corporation publishes reports of condition at least annually, pursuant
to law or to the requirements of the aforesaid supervising or examining
authority, then for the purposes of this Section, the combined capital and
surplus of such corporation shall be deemed to be its combined capital and
surplus as set forth in its most recent report of condition so published. The
Company may not, nor may any Person directly or indirectly controlling,
controlled by, or under common control with the Company, serve as Trustee. In
case at any time the Trustee shall cease to be eligible in accordance with the
provisions of this Section, the Trustee shall resign immediately in the manner
and with the effect specified in Section 7.10.

      Section 7.10 Resignation and Removal; Appointment of Successor.

      (a) The Trustee or any successor hereafter appointed, may at any time
resign with respect to the Securities of one or more series by giving written
notice thereof to the Company and by transmitting notice of resignation by mail,
first class postage prepaid, to the Securityholders of such series, as their
names and addresses appear upon the Security Register. Upon receiving such
notice of resignation, the Company shall promptly appoint a successor trustee
with respect to Securities of such series by written instrument, in duplicate,
executed by order of the Board of Directors, one copy of which instrument shall
be delivered to the resigning Trustee and one copy to the successor trustee. If
no successor trustee shall have been so appointed and have accepted appointment
within 30 days after the mailing of such notice of

                                       37

resignation, the resigning Trustee may petition any court of competent
jurisdiction for the appointment of a successor trustee with respect to
Securities of such series, or any Securityholder of that series who has been a
bona fide holder of a Security or Securities for at least six months may on
behalf of himself and all others similarly situated, petition any such court for
the appointment of a successor trustee. Such court may thereupon after such
notice, if any, as it may deem proper and prescribe, appoint a successor
trustee.

      (b) In case at any time any one of the following shall occur:

            (1) the Trustee shall fail to comply with the provisions of Section
      7.08 after written request therefor by the Company or by any
      Securityholder who has been a bona fide holder of a Security or Securities
      for at least six months; or

            (2) the Trustee shall cease to be eligible in accordance with the
      provisions of Section 7.09 and shall fail to resign after written request
      therefor by the Company or by any such Securityholder; or

            (3) the Trustee shall become incapable of acting, or shall be
      adjudged a bankrupt or insolvent, or commence a voluntary bankruptcy
      proceeding, or a receiver of the Trustee or of its property shall be
      appointed or consented to, or any public officer shall take charge or
      control of the Trustee or of its property or affairs for the purpose of
      rehabilitation, conservation or liquidation; then, in any such case, (i)
      the Company may remove the Trustee with respect to all Securities and
      appoint a successor trustee by written instrument, in duplicate, executed
      by order of the Board of Directors, one copy of which instrument shall be
      delivered to the Trustee so removed and one copy to the successor trustee,
      or (ii) unless the Trustee's duty to resign is stayed as provided herein,
      any Securityholder who has been a bona fide holder of a Security or
      Securities for at least six months may, on behalf of that holder and all
      others similarly situated, petition any court of competent jurisdiction
      for the removal of the Trustee and the appointment of a successor trustee.
      Such court may thereupon after such notice, if any, as it may deem proper
      and prescribe, remove the Trustee and appoint a successor trustee.

      (c) The holders of a majority in aggregate principal amount of the
Securities of any series at the time Outstanding may at any time remove the
Trustee with respect to such series by so notifying the Trustee and the Company
and may appoint a successor Trustee for such series with the consent of the
Company.

      (d) Any resignation or removal of the Trustee and appointment of a
successor trustee with respect to the Securities of a series pursuant to any of
the provisions of this Section shall become effective upon acceptance of
appointment by the successor trustee as provided in Section 7.11.

      (e) Any successor trustee appointed pursuant to this Section may be
appointed with respect to the Securities of one or more series or all of such
series, and at any time there shall be only one Trustee with respect to the
Securities of any particular series.

                                       38

Section 7.11 Acceptance of Appointment By Successor.

      (a) In case of the appointment hereunder of a successor trustee with
respect to all Securities, every such successor trustee so appointed shall
execute, acknowledge and deliver to the Company and to the retiring Trustee an
instrument accepting such appointment, and thereupon the resignation or removal
of the retiring Trustee shall become effective and such successor trustee,
without any further act, deed or conveyance, shall become vested with all the
rights, powers, trusts and duties of the retiring Trustee; but, on the request
of the Company or the successor trustee, such retiring Trustee shall, upon
payment of its charges, execute and deliver an instrument transferring to such
successor trustee all the rights, powers, and trusts of the retiring Trustee and
shall duly assign, transfer and deliver to such successor trustee all property
and money held by such retiring Trustee hereunder.

      (b) In case of the appointment hereunder of a successor trustee with
respect to the Securities of one or more (but not all) series, the Company, the
retiring Trustee and each successor trustee with respect to the Securities of
one or more series shall execute and deliver an indenture supplemental hereto
wherein each successor trustee shall accept such appointment and which (1) shall
contain such provisions as shall be necessary or desirable to transfer and
confirm to, and to vest in, each successor trustee all the rights, powers,
trusts and duties of the retiring Trustee with respect to the Securities of that
or those series to which the appointment of such successor trustee relates, (2)
shall contain such provisions as shall be deemed necessary or desirable to
confirm that all the rights, powers, trusts and duties of the retiring Trustee
with respect to the Securities of that or those series as to which the retiring
Trustee is not retiring shall continue to be vested in the retiring Trustee, and
(3) shall add to or change any of the provisions of this Indenture as shall be
necessary to provide for or facilitate the administration of the trusts
hereunder by more than one Trustee, it being understood that nothing herein or
in such supplemental indenture shall constitute such Trustees co-trustees of the
same trust, that each such Trustee shall be trustee of a trust or trusts
hereunder separate and apart from any trust or trusts hereunder administered by
any other such Trustee and that no Trustee shall be responsible for any act or
failure to act on the part of any other Trustee hereunder; and upon the
execution and delivery of such supplemental indenture the resignation or removal
of the retiring Trustee shall become effective to the extent provided therein,
such retiring Trustee shall with respect to the Securities of that or those
series to which the appointment of such successor trustee relates have no
further responsibility for the exercise of rights and powers or for the
performance of the duties and obligations vested in the Trustee under this
Indenture, and each such successor trustee, without any further act, deed or
conveyance, shall become vested with all the rights, powers, trusts and duties
of the retiring Trustee with respect to the Securities of that or those series
to which the appointment of such successor trustee relates; but, on request of
the Company or any successor trustee, such retiring Trustee shall duly assign,
transfer and deliver to such successor trustee, to the extent contemplated by
such supplemental indenture, the property and money held by such retiring
Trustee hereunder with respect to the Securities of that or those series to
which the appointment of such successor trustee relates.

      (c) Upon request of any such successor trustee, the Company shall execute
any and all instruments for more fully and certainly vesting in and confirming
to such successor trustee all such rights, powers and trusts referred to in
paragraph (a) or (b) of this Section, as the case may be.

                                       39

(d) No successor trustee shall accept its appointment unless at the time
of such acceptance such successor trustee shall be qualified and eligible under
this Article.

      (e) Upon acceptance of appointment by a successor trustee as provided in
this Section, the Company shall transmit notice of the succession of such
trustee hereunder by mail, first class postage prepaid, to the Securityholders,
as their names and addresses appear upon the Security Register. If the Company
fails to transmit such notice within ten days after acceptance of appointment by
the successor trustee, the successor trustee shall cause such notice to be
transmitted at the expense of the Company.

      Section 7.12 Merger, Conversion, Consolidation or Succession to Business.

      Any corporation into which the Trustee may be merged or converted or with
which it may be consolidated, or any corporation resulting from any merger,
conversion or consolidation to which the Trustee shall be a party, or any
corporation succeeding to the corporate trust business of the Trustee, shall be
the successor of the Trustee hereunder, provided that such corporation shall be
qualified under the provisions of Section 7.08 and eligible under the provisions
of Section 7.09, without the execution or filing of any paper or any further act
on the part of any of the parties hereto, anything herein to the contrary
notwithstanding. In case any Securities shall have been authenticated, but not
delivered, by the Trustee then in office, any successor by merger, conversion or
consolidation to such authenticating Trustee may adopt such authentication and
deliver the Securities so authenticated with the same effect as if such
successor Trustee had itself authenticated such Securities.

      Section 7.13 Preferential Collection of Claims Against the Company.

      The Trustee shall comply with Section 311(a) of the Trust Indenture Act,
excluding any creditor relationship described in Section 311(b) of the Trust
Indenture Act. A Trustee who has resigned or been removed shall be subject to
Section 311(a) of the Trust Indenture Act to the extent included therein.

                                  ARTICLE VIII

                         CONCERNING THE SECURITYHOLDERS

      Section 8.01 Evidence of Action by Securityholders.

      Whenever in this Indenture it is provided that the holders of a majority
or specified percentage in aggregate principal amount of the Securities of a
particular series may take any action (including the making of any demand or
request, the giving of any notice, consent or waiver or the taking of any other
action), the fact that at the time of taking any such action the holders of such
majority or specified percentage of that series have joined therein may be
evidenced by any instrument or any number of instruments of similar tenor
executed by such holders of Securities of that series in Person or by agent or
proxy appointed in writing.

      If the Company shall solicit from the Securityholders of any series any
request, demand, authorization, direction, notice, consent, waiver or other
action, the Company may, at its option, as evidenced by an Officers'
Certificate, fix in advance a record date for such series for the

                                       40

determination of Securityholders entitled to give such request, demand,
authorization, direction, notice, consent, waiver or other action, but the
Company shall have no obligation to do so. If such a record date is fixed, such
request, demand, authorization, direction, notice, consent, waiver or other
action may be given before or after the record date, but only the
Securityholders of record at the close of business on the record date shall be
deemed to be Securityholders for the purposes of determining whether
Securityholders of the requisite proportion of Outstanding Securities of that
series have authorized or agreed or consented to such request, demand,
authorization, direction, notice, consent, waiver or other action, and for that
purpose the Outstanding Securities of that series shall be computed as of the
record date; provided, however, that no such authorization, agreement or consent
by such Securityholders on the record date shall be deemed effective unless it
shall become effective pursuant to the provisions of this Indenture not later
than six months after the record date.

      Section 8.02 Proof of Execution by Securityholders.

      Subject to the provisions of Section 7.01, proof of the execution of any
instrument by a Securityholder (such proof will not require notarization) or his
agent or proxy and proof of the holding by any Person of any of the Securities
shall be sufficient if made in the following manner:

      (a) The fact and date of the execution by any such Person of any
instrument may be proved in any reasonable manner acceptable to the Trustee.

      (b) The ownership of Securities shall be proved by the Security Register
of such Securities or by a certificate of the Security Registrar thereof.

      (c) The Trustee may require such additional proof of any matter referred
to in this Section as it shall deem necessary.

      Section 8.03 Who May be Deemed Owners.

      Prior to the due presentment for registration of transfer of any Security,
the Company, the Trustee, any Paying Agent and any Security Registrar may deem
and treat the Person in whose name such Security shall be registered upon the
books of the Company as the absolute owner of such Security (whether or not such
Security shall be overdue and notwithstanding any notice of ownership or writing
thereon made by anyone other than the Security Registrar) for the purpose of
receiving payment of or on account of the principal of, premium, if any, and
(subject to Section 2.03) interest on such Security and for all other purposes;
and neither the Company nor the Trustee nor any Paying Agent nor any Security
Registrar shall be affected by any notice to the contrary.

      Section 8.04 Certain Securities Owned by Company Disregarded.

      In determining whether the holders of the requisite aggregate principal
amount of Securities of a particular series have concurred in any direction,
consent of waiver under this Indenture, the Securities of that series that are
owned by the Company or any other obligor on the Securities of that series or by
any Person directly or indirectly controlling or controlled by or under common
control with the Company or any other obligor on the Securities of that series

                                       41

shall be disregarded and deemed not to be Outstanding for the purpose of any
such determination, except that for the purpose of determining whether the
Trustee shall be protected in relying on any such direction, consent or waiver,
only Securities of such series that the Trustee actually knows are so owned
shall be so disregarded. The Securities so owned that have been pledged in good
faith may be regarded as Outstanding for the purposes of this Section, if the
pledgee shall establish to the satisfaction of the Trustee the pledgee's right
so to act with respect to such Securities and that the pledgee is not a Person
directly or indirectly controlling or controlled by or under direct or indirect
common control with the Company or any such other obligor. In case of a dispute
as to such right, any decision by the Trustee taken upon the advice of counsel
shall be full protection to the Trustee.

      Section 8.05 Actions Binding on Future Securityholders.

      At any time prior to (but not after) the evidencing to the Trustee, as
provided in Section 8.01, of the taking of any action by the holders of the
majority or percentage in aggregate principal amount of the Securities of a
particular series specified in this Indenture in connection with such action,
any holder of a Security of that series that is shown by the evidence to be
included in the Securities the holders of which have consented to such action
may, by filing written notice with the Trustee, and upon proof of holding as
provided in Section 8.02, revoke such action so far as concerns such Security.
Except as aforesaid any such action taken by the holder of any Security shall be
conclusive and binding upon such holder and upon all future holders and owners
of such Security, and of any Security issued in exchange therefor, on
registration of transfer thereof or in place thereof, irrespective of whether or
not any notation in regard thereto is made upon such Security. Any action taken
by the holders of the majority or percentage in aggregate principal amount of
the Securities of a particular series specified in this Indenture in connection
with such action shall be conclusively binding upon the Company, the Trustee and
the holders of all the Securities of that series.

                                   ARTICLE IX

                             SUPPLEMENTAL INDENTURES

      Section 9.01 Supplemental Indentures Without the Consent of
Securityholders.

      In addition to any supplemental indenture otherwise authorized by this
Indenture, the Company and the Trustee may from time to time and at any time
enter into an indenture or indentures supplemental hereto (which shall conform
to the provisions of the Trust Indenture Act as then in effect), without the
consent of the Securityholders, for one or more of the following purposes:

            (1) to cure any ambiguity, defect, or inconsistency herein, in the
      Securities of any series;

            (2) to comply with Article Ten;

            (3) to provide for uncertificated Securities in addition to or in
      place of certificated Securities;

                                       42

(4) to add to the covenants of the Company for the benefit of the
      holders of all or any Series of Securities (and if such covenants are to
      be for the benefit of less than all series of Securities, stating that
      such covenants are expressly being included solely for the benefit of such
      series) or to surrender any right or power herein conferred upon the
      Company;

            (5) to add to, delete from, or revise the conditions, limitations,
      and restrictions on the authorized amount, terms, or purposes of issue,
      authentication, and delivery of Securities, as herein set forth;

            (6) to make any change that does not adversely affect the rights of
      any Securityholder in any material respect;

            (7) to provide for the issuance of and establish the form and terms
      and conditions of the Securities of any series as provided in Section
      2.01, to establish the form of any certifications required to be furnished
      pursuant to the terms of this Indenture or any series of Securities, or to
      add to the rights of the holders of any series of Securities;

            (8) to add to the covenants of the Company for the benefit of the
      holders of all or any series of Securities (and if such covenants are to
      be for the benefit of less than all series of Securities, stating that
      such covenants are expressly being included solely for the benefit of such
      series) or to surrender any right or power herein conferred upon the
      Company;

            (9) to add any additional Events of Default for the benefit of the
      holders of all or any series of Securities (and if such additional Events
      of Default are to be for the benefit of less than all series of
      Securities, stating that such additional Events of Default are expressly
      being included solely for the benefit of such series);

            (10) to add to or change any of the provisions of this Indenture to
      such extent as shall be necessary to permit or facilitate the issuance of
      Securities in uncertificated form;

            (11) to add to, change or eliminate any of the provisions of this
      Indenture in respect of one or more series of Securities, provided that
      any such addition, change or elimination (A) shall neither (i) apply to
      any Security of any series created prior to the execution of such
      supplemental indenture and entitled to the benefit of such provision nor
      modify the rights of the holder of any such Security with respect to such
      provision or (B) shall become effective only when there is no such
      Security Outstanding;

            (12) to secure the Securities; or

            (13) to evidence and provide for the acceptance of appointment
      hereunder by a successor Trustee with respect to the Securities of one or
      more series and to add to or change any of the provisions of this
      Indenture as shall be necessary to provide for or facilitate the
      administration of the trusts hereunder by more than one Trustee, pursuant
      to the requirements of Section 7.11.

                                       43

The Trustee is hereby authorized to join with the Company in the execution
of any such supplemental indenture, and to make any further appropriate
agreements and stipulations that may be therein contained, but the Trustee shall
not be obligated to enter into any such supplemental indenture that affects the
Trustee's own rights, duties or immunities under this Indenture or otherwise.

      Any supplemental indenture authorized by the provisions of this Section
may be executed by the Company and the Trustee without the consent of the
holders of any of the Securities at the time Outstanding, notwithstanding any of
the provisions of Section 9.02.

      Section 9.02 Supplemental Indentures With Consent of Securityholders.

      With the consent (evidenced as provided in Section 8.01) of the holders of
not less than a majority in aggregate principal amount of the Securities of each
series affected by such supplemental indenture or indentures at the time
Outstanding, the Company, when authorized by Board Resolutions, and the Trustee
may from time to time and at any time enter into an indenture or indentures
supplemental hereto (which shall conform to the provisions of the Trust
Indenture Act as then in effect) for the purpose of adding any provisions to or
changing in any manner or eliminating any of the provisions of this Indenture or
of any supplemental indenture or of modifying in any manner not covered by
Section 9.01 the rights of the holders of the Securities of such series under
this Indenture; provided, however, that no such supplemental indenture shall,
without the consent of the holders of each Security then Outstanding and
affected thereby, (i) extend the fixed maturity of any Securities of any series,
or reduce the principal amount thereof, or reduce the rate or extend the time of
payment of interest thereon, or reduce any premium payable upon the redemption
thereof; (ii) reduce the amount of principal of an Original Issue Discount
Security or any other Security payable upon acceleration of the maturity thereof
pursuant to Section 6.01(b); (iii) change the currency in which any Security or
any premium or interest is payable; (iv) impair the right to enforce any payment
on or with respect to any Security; (v) adversely change the right to convert or
exchange, including decreasing the conversion rate or increasing the conversion
price of, such Security (if applicable); (vi) reduce the percentage in principal
amount of outstanding Securities of any series, the consent of whose holders is
required for modification or amendment of this Indenture or for waiver of
compliance with certain provisions of this Indenture or for waiver of certain
defaults; (vii) reduce the requirements contained in this Indenture for quorum
or voting; or (viii) modify any of the above provisions; provided, further, that
if the Securities of such series are held by a MetLife Trust or a trustee of
such Trust, such supplemental indenture shall not be effective until the holders
of not less than a majority in liquidation preference of Trust Securities of the
applicable MetLife Trust shall have consented to such supplemental indenture;
and, provided, further, that if the consent of the holder of each outstanding
Security is required, such supplemental indenture shall not be effective until
each holder of the Trust Securities of the applicable MetLife Trust shall have
consented to such supplemental indenture.

      It shall not be necessary for the consent of the Securityholders of any
series affected thereby under this Section to approve the particular form of any
proposed supplemental indenture, but it shall be sufficient if such consent
shall approve the substance thereof.

                                       44

Section 9.03 Effect of Supplemental Indentures.

      Upon the execution of any supplemental indenture pursuant to the
provisions of this Article or of Article X, this Indenture shall, with respect
to such series, be and be deemed to be modified and amended in accordance
therewith and the respective rights, limitations of rights, obligations, duties
and immunities under this Indenture of the Trustee, the Company and the holders
of Securities of the series affected thereby shall thereafter be determined,
exercised and enforced hereunder subject in all respects to such modifications
and amendments, and all the terms and conditions of any such supplemental
indenture shall be and be deemed to be part of the terms and conditions of this
Indenture for any and all purposes.

      Section 9.04 Securities Affected by Supplemental Indentures.

      Securities of any series, affected by a supplemental indenture,
authenticated and delivered after the execution of such supplemental indenture
pursuant to the provisions of this Article or of Article X, may bear a notation
in form approved by the Company, provided such form meets the requirements of
any exchange upon which such series may be listed, as to any matter provided for
in such supplemental indenture. If the Company shall so determine, new
Securities of that series so modified as to conform, in the opinion of the Board
of Directors of the Company, to any modification of this Indenture contained in
any such supplemental indenture may be prepared by the Company, authenticated by
the Trustee and delivered in exchange for the Securities of that series then
Outstanding.

      Section 9.05 Execution of Supplemental Indentures.

      Upon the request of the Company, accompanied by its Board Resolutions
authorizing the execution of any such supplemental indenture, and upon the
filing with the Trustee of evidence of the consent of Securityholders required
to consent thereto as aforesaid, the Trustee shall join with the Company in the
execution of such supplemental indenture unless such supplemental indenture
affects the Trustee's own rights, duties or immunities under this Indenture or
otherwise, in which case the Trustee may, in its discretion, but shall not be
obligated to, enter into such supplemental indenture. The Trustee, subject to
the provisions of Section 7.01, may receive an Opinion of Counsel as conclusive
evidence that any supplemental indenture executed pursuant to this Article is
authorized or permitted by, and conforms to, the terms of this Article and that
it is proper for the Trustee under the provisions of this Article to join in the
execution thereof; provided, however, that such Opinion of Counsel need not be
provided in connection with the execution of a supplemental indenture that
establishes the terms of a series of Securities pursuant to Section 2.01 hereof.

      Promptly after the execution by the Company and the Trustee of any
supplemental indenture pursuant to the provisions of this Section, the Trustee
shall transmit by mail, first class postage prepaid, a notice, setting forth in
general terms the substance of such supplemental indenture, to the
Securityholders of all series affected thereby as their names and addresses
appear upon the Security Register. Any failure of the Trustee to mail such
notice, or any defect therein, shall not, however, in any way impair or affect
the validity of any such supplemental indenture.

                                       45

ARTICLE X

                       CONSOLIDATION, MERGER, CONVEYANCE,
                                TRANSFER OR LEASE

      Section 10.01 When the Company May Consolidate, Merge, Etc.

      The Company may not (a) merge with or into or consolidate with, or (b)
sell, assign, transfer, lease or convey all or substantially all of its
properties and assets to, any Person other than, with respect to this clause
(b), a direct or indirect wholly-owned subsidiary of the Company, and no Person
shall (x) merge with or into or consolidate with the Company, or (y) except for
any direct or indirect wholly-owned subsidiary of the Company, sell, assign,
transfer, lease or convey all or substantially all of its properties and assets
to the Company, unless:

      (a) the Company is the surviving corporation or the Person formed by or
surviving such merger or consolidation or to which such sale, assignment,
transfer, lease or conveyance shall have been made (the "Successor"), if other
than the Company, shall expressly assume by an indenture supplemental hereto,
executed and delivered to the Trustee, in form satisfactory to the Trustee, all
the obligations of the Company under the Securities, this Indenture, the Common
Securities Guarantee and the Preferred Securities Guarantee;

      (b) immediately after giving effect to such transaction, no default or
Event of Default shall have occurred and be continuing;

      (c) if at the time any Preferred Securities are outstanding, such
transaction is not prohibited under the Declaration and the Preferred Securities
Guarantee; and

      (d) the Company delivers to the Trustee an Officers' Certificate and an
Opinion of Counsel, each stating that such supplemental indenture comply with
this Indenture.

      The Successor will be the successor to the Company, and will be
substituted for, and may exercise every right and power and become the obligor
on the Securities with the same effect as if the Successor had been named as the
Company herein but, in the case of a sale, assignment, transfer, lease or
conveyance of all or substantially all of the properties and assets of the
Company, the predecessor Company will not be released from its obligations to
pay the principal of, premium, if any, and interest on the Securities.

                                   ARTICLE XI

                           SATISFACTION AND DISCHARGE

      Section 11.01 Satisfaction and Discharge of Indenture.

      If at any time: (a) the Company shall have delivered to the Trustee for
cancellation all Securities of a series theretofore authenticated (other than
any Securities that shall have been destroyed, lost or stolen and that shall
have been replaced or paid as provided in Section 2.07) and Securities for whose
payment money or Governmental Obligations have theretofore been deposited in
trust or segregated and held in trust by the Company (and thereupon repaid to
the

                                       46

Company or discharged from such trust, as provided in Section 11.05); or (b) all
such Securities of a particular series not theretofore delivered to the Trustee
for cancellation shall have become due and payable, or are by their terms to
become due and payable within one year or are to be called for redemption within
one year under arrangements satisfactory to the Trustee for the giving of notice
of redemption, and the Company shall deposit or cause to be deposited with the
Trustee as trust funds the entire amount in moneys or Governmental Obligations
sufficient or a combination thereof, sufficient in the opinion of a nationally
recognized firm of independent public accountants expressed in a written
certification thereof delivered to the Trustee, to pay at maturity or upon
redemption all Securities of that series not theretofore delivered to the
Trustee for cancellation, including principal, and premium, if any, and interest
due or to become due to such date of maturity or date fixed for redemption, as
the case may be, and if the Company shall also pay or cause to be paid all other
sums payable hereunder with respect to such series by the Company then this
Indenture shall thereupon cease to be of further effect with respect to such
series except for the provisions of Sections 2.03, 2.05, 2.07, 4.01, 4.02, 4.03
and 7.10, that shall survive until the date of maturity or redemption date, as
the case may be, and Sections 7.06 and 11.05, that shall survive to such date
and thereafter, and the Trustee, on demand of the Company and at the cost and
expense of the Company shall execute proper instruments acknowledging
satisfaction of and discharging this Indenture with respect to such series.

      Section 11.02 Discharge of Obligations.

      If at any time all such Securities of a particular series not heretofore
delivered to the Trustee for cancellation or that have not become due and
payable as described in Section 11.01 shall have been paid by the Company by
depositing irrevocably with the Trustee as trust funds money in U.S. dollars
sufficient or an amount of non-callable Governmental Obligations, the principal
of and interest on which when due, will be sufficient or a combination thereof,
sufficient in the opinion of a nationally recognized firm of independent
accountants expressed in a written certification thereof delivered to the
Trustee, to pay at maturity or upon redemption all such Securities of that
series not theretofore delivered to the Trustee for cancellation, including
principal, and premium, if any, and interest due or to become due to such date
of maturity or date fixed for redemption, as the case may be, and if the Company
shall also pay or cause to be paid all other sums payable hereunder by the
Company with respect to such series, then after the date such moneys or
Governmental Obligations, as the case may be, are deposited with the Trustee the
obligations of the Company under this Indenture with respect to such series
shall cease to be of further effect except for the provisions of Sections 2.03,
2.05, 2.07, 4.01, 4.02, 4.03, 7.06, 7.10 and 11.05 hereof that shall survive
until such Securities shall mature and be paid. Thereafter, Sections 7.06 and
11.05 shall survive.

      Section 11.03 Deposited Moneys to be Held in Trust.

      All moneys or Governmental Obligations deposited with the Trustee pursuant
to Sections 11.01 or 11.02 shall be held in trust and shall be available for
payment as due, either directly or through any Paying Agent (including the
Company acting as its own Paying Agent), to the holders of the particular series
of Securities for the payment or redemption of which such moneys or Governmental
Obligations have been deposited with the Trustee.

                                       47

Section 11.04 Payment of Moneys Held by Paying Agents.

      In connection with the satisfaction and discharge of this Indenture all
moneys or Governmental Obligations then held by any Paying Agent under the
provisions of this Indenture shall, upon demand of the Company, be paid to the
Trustee and thereupon such Paying Agent shall be released from all further
liability with respect to such moneys or Governmental Obligations.

      Section 11.05 Repayment to Company.

      Any moneys or Governmental Obligations deposited with any Paying Agent or
the Trustee, or then held by the Company, in trust for payment of principal of
or premium or interest on the Securities of a particular series that are not
applied but remain unclaimed by the holders of such Securities for at least two
years after the date upon which the principal of, and premium, if any, or
interest on such Securities shall have respectively become due and payable,
shall be repaid to the Company on May 31 of each year or (if then held by the
Company) shall be discharged from such trust; and thereupon the Paying Agent and
the Trustee shall be released from all further liability with respect to such
moneys or Governmental Obligations, and the holder of any of the Securities
entitled to receive such payment shall thereafter, as an unsecured general
creditor, look only to the Company for the payment thereof.

                                  ARTICLE XII

                    IMMUNITY OF INCORPORATORS, STOCKHOLDERS,
                             OFFICERS AND DIRECTORS

      Section 12.01 No Recourse.

      No recourse under or upon any obligation, covenant or agreement of this
Indenture, or of any Security, or for any claim based thereon or otherwise in
respect thereof, shall be had against any incorporator, stockholder, officer or
director, past, present or future as such, of the Company or of any predecessor
or successor corporation, either directly or through the Company or any such
predecessor or successor corporation, whether by virtue of any constitution,
statute or rule of law, or by the enforcement of any assessment or penalty or
otherwise; it being expressly understood that this Indenture and the obligations
issued hereunder are solely corporate obligations, and that no such personal
liability whatever shall attach to, or is or shall be incurred by, the
incorporators, stockholders, officers or directors as such, of the Company or of
any predecessor or successor corporation, or any of them, because of the
creation of the indebtedness hereby authorized, or under or by reason of the
obligations, covenants or agreements contained in this Indenture or in any of
the Securities or implied therefrom; and that any and all such personal
liability of every name and nature, either at common law or in equity or by
constitution or statute, of, and any and all such rights and claims against,
every such incorporator, stockholder, officer or director as such, because of
the creation of the indebtedness hereby authorized, or under or by reason of the
obligations, covenants or agreements contained in this Indenture or in any of
the Securities or implied therefrom, are hereby expressly waived and released as
a condition of, and as a consideration for, the execution of this Indenture and
the issuance of such Securities.

                                       48

ARTICLE XIII

                       DEFEASANCE AND COVENANT DEFEASANCE

      Section 13.01 Company's Option to Effect Defeasance or Covenant
Defeasance.

      The Company may elect, at its option at any time, to have Section 13.02 or
Section 13.03 applied to any Securities or any series of Securities, as the case
may be, designated pursuant to Section 2.01 as being defeasible pursuant to such
Sections 13.02 or 13.03, in accordance with any applicable requirements provided
pursuant to Section 2.01 and upon compliance with the conditions set forth below
in this Article. Any such election shall be evidenced by a Board Resolution or
in another manner specified as contemplated by Section 2.01 for such Securities.

      Section 13.02 Defeasance and Discharge.

      Upon the Company's exercise of its option (if any) to have this Section
applied to any Securities or any series of Securities, as the case may be, the
Company shall be deemed to have been discharged from its obligations with
respect to such Securities as provided in this Section on and after the date the
conditions set forth in Section 13.04 are satisfied (hereinafter called
"Defeasance"). For this purpose, such Defeasance means that the Company shall be
deemed to have paid and discharged the entire indebtedness represented by such
Securities and to have satisfied all its other obligations under such Securities
and this Indenture insofar as such Securities are concerned (and the Trustee, at
the expense of the Company, shall execute proper instruments acknowledging the
same), subject to the following which shall survive until otherwise terminated
or discharged hereunder: (1) the rights of holders of such Securities to
receive, solely from the trust fund described in Section 13.04 and as more fully
set forth in such Section, payments in respect of the principal of and any
premium and interest on such Securities when payments are due, (2) the Company's
obligations with respect to such Securities under Sections 2.05, 2.06, 2.07,
4.01, 4.02 and 4.03, (3) the rights, powers, trusts, duties and immunities of
the Trustee hereunder and (4) this Article. Subject to compliance with this
Article, the Company may exercise its option (if any) to have this Section
applied to any Securities notwithstanding the prior exercise of its option (if
any) to have Section 13.03 applied to such Securities.

      Section 13.03 Covenant Defeasance.

      Upon the Company's exercise of its option (if any) to have this Section
applied to any Securities or any series of Securities, as the case may be, (1)
the Company shall be released from its obligations under Article X, Section
4.06, and any covenants provided pursuant to Sections 2.01(16), 9.01(4) or
9.01(7) for the benefit of the holders of such Securities and (2) the occurrence
of any event specified in Sections 6.01(3) (with respect to any of Article X,
Section 4.06, and any such covenants provided pursuant to Sections 2.01(16),
9.01(4) or 9.01(7)), 6.01(a)(7) and 6.01(a)(8) shall be deemed not to be or
result in an Event of Default, in each case with respect to such Securities as
provided in this Section on and after the date the conditions set forth in
Section 13.04 are satisfied (hereinafter called "Covenant Defeasance"). For this
purpose, such Covenant Defeasance means that, with respect to such Securities,
the Company may omit to comply with and shall have no liability in respect of
any term, condition or limitation set forth in

                                       49

any such specified Section (to the extent so specified in the case of Section
6.01(3)), whether directly or indirectly by reason of any reference elsewhere
herein to any such Section or by reason of any reference in any such Section to
any other provision herein or in any other document, but the remainder of this
Indenture and such Securities shall be unaffected thereby.

      Section 13.04 Conditions to Defeasance or Covenant Defeasance.

      The following shall be the conditions to the application of Section 13.02
or Section 13.03 to any Securities or any series of Securities, as the case may
be:

            (1) The Company shall irrevocably have deposited or caused to be
      deposited with the Trustee (or another trustee which satisfies the
      requirements contemplated by Section 7.09 and agrees to comply with the
      provisions of this Article applicable to it) as trust funds in trust for
      the purpose of making the following payments, specifically pledged as
      security for, and dedicated solely to, the benefits of the holders of such
      Securities, (A) money in an amount, or (B) Government Obligations which
      through the scheduled payment of principal and interest in respect thereof
      in accordance with their terms will provide, not later than one day before
      the due date of any payment, money in an amount, or (C) a combination
      thereof, in each case sufficient, in the opinion of a nationally
      recognized firm of independent public accountants expressed in a written
      certification thereof delivered to the Trustee, to pay and discharge, and
      which shall be applied by the Trustee (or any such other qualifying
      trustee) to pay and discharge, the principal of and any premium and
      interest on such Securities on the respective Stated Maturities, in
      accordance with the terms of this Indenture and such Securities.

            (2) In the event of an election to have Section 13.02 apply to any
      Securities or any series of Securities, as the case may be, the Company
      shall have delivered to the Trustee an Opinion of Counsel stating that (A)
      the Company has received from, or there has been published by, the
      Internal Revenue Service a ruling or (B) since the date of this Indenture,
      there has been a change in the applicable federal income tax law, in
      either case (A) or (B) to the effect that, and based thereon such opinion
      shall confirm that, the holders of such Securities will not recognize gain
      or loss for federal income tax purposes as a result of the deposit,
      Defeasance and discharge to be effected with respect to such Securities
      and will be subject to federal income tax on the same amount, in the same
      manner and at the same times as would be the case if such deposit,
      Defeasance and discharge were not to occur.

            (3) In the event of an election to have Section 13.03 apply to any
      Securities or any series of Securities, as the case may be, the Company
      shall have delivered to the Trustee an Opinion of Counsel to the effect
      that the holders of such Securities will not recognize gain or loss for
      federal income tax purposes as a result of the deposit and Covenant
      Defeasance to be effected with respect to such Securities and will be
      subject to federal income tax on the same amount, in the same manner and
      at the same times as would be the case if such deposit and Covenant
      Defeasance were not to occur.

            (4) The Company shall have delivered to the Trustee an Officers'
      Certificate to the effect that it has been informed by the relevant
      securities exchange(s) that neither

                                       50

such Securities nor any other Securities of the same series, if then
      listed on any securities exchange, will be delisted as a result of such
      deposit.

            (5) No event which is, or after notice or lapse of time or both
      would become, an Event of Default with respect to such Securities or any
      other Securities shall have occurred and be continuing at the time of such
      deposit or, with regard to any such event specified in Sections 6.01(a)(5)
      and 6.01(a)(6), at any time on or prior to the 90th day after the date of
      such deposit (it being understood that this condition shall not be deemed
      satisfied until after such 90th day).

            (6) Such Defeasance or Covenant Defeasance shall not result in a
      breach or violation of, or constitute a default under, any indenture or
      other agreement or instrument for borrowed money, pursuant to which in
      excess of $100,000,000 principal amount is then outstanding, to which the
      Company is a party or by which it is bound.

            (7) Such Defeasance or Covenant Defeasance shall not result in the
      trust arising from such deposit constituting an investment company within
      the meaning of the Investment Company Act unless such trust shall be
      registered under such Act or exempt from registration thereunder.

            (8) The Company shall have delivered to the Trustee an Officers'
      Certificate and an Opinion of Counsel, each stating that all conditions
      precedent with respect to such Defeasance or Covenant Defeasance have been
      complied with.

      Section 13.05 Deposited Money and Government Obligations to Be Held in
Trust; Miscellaneous Provisions.

      Subject to the provisions of Section 4.03(d), all money and Government
Obligations (including the proceeds thereof) deposited with the Trustee or other
qualifying trustee (solely for purposes of this Section and Section 13.06, the
Trustee and any such other trustee are referred to collectively as the
"Trustee") pursuant to Section 13.04 in respect of any Securities shall be held
in trust and applied by the Trustee, in accordance with the provisions of such
Securities and this Indenture, to the payment, either directly or through any
such Paying Agent (including the Company acting as its own Paying Agent) as the
Trustee may determine, to the holders of such Securities, of all sums due and to
become due thereon in respect of principal and any premium and interest, but
money so held in trust need not be segregated from other funds except to the
extent required by law.

      The Company shall pay and indemnify the Trustee against any tax, fee or
other charge imposed on or assessed against the Government Obligations deposited
pursuant to Section 13.04 or the principal and interest received in respect
thereof other than any such tax, fee or other charge which by law is for the
account of the holders of Outstanding Securities.

      Anything in this Article to the contrary notwithstanding, the Trustee
shall deliver or pay to the Company from time to time upon request of the
Company any money or Government Obligations held by it as provided in Section
13.04 with respect to any Securities which, in the opinion of a nationally
recognized firm of independent public accountants expressed in a written
certification thereof delivered to the Trustee, are in excess of the amount
thereof which would

                                       51

then be required to be deposited to effect the Defeasance or Covenant
Defeasance, as the case may be, with respect to such Securities.

      Section 13.06 Reinstatement.

      If the Trustee or the Paying Agent is unable to apply any money in
accordance with this Article with respect to any Securities by reason of any
order or judgment of any court or governmental authority enjoining, restraining
or otherwise prohibiting such application, then the obligations under this
Indenture and such Securities from which the Company has been discharged or
released pursuant to Sections 13.02 or 13.03 shall be revived and reinstated as
though no deposit had occurred pursuant to this Article with respect to such
Securities, until such time as the Trustee or Paying Agent is permitted to apply
all money held in trust pursuant to Section 13.05 with respect to such
Securities in accordance with this Article; provided, however, that if the
Company makes any payment of principal of or any premium or interest on any such
Security following such reinstatement of its obligations, the Company shall be
subrogated to the rights (if any) of the holders of such Securities to receive
such payment from the money so held in trust.

                                  ARTICLE XIV

                            MISCELLANEOUS PROVISIONS

      Section 14.01 Effect on Successors and Assigns.

      All the covenants, stipulations, promises and agreements in this Indenture
contained by or on behalf of the Company shall bind its successors and assigns,
whether so expressed or not.

      Section 14.02 Actions by Successor.

      Any act or proceeding by any provision of this Indenture authorized or
required to be done or performed by any board, committee or officer of the
Company shall and may be done and performed with like force and effect by the
corresponding board, committee or officer of any corporation that shall at the
time be the lawful sole successor of the Company.

      Section 14.03 Surrender of Company Powers.

      The Company by instrument in writing executed by authority of 2/3 (two-
thirds) of its Board of Directors and delivered to the Trustee may surrender any
of the powers reserved to the Company under this Indenture, and thereupon such
power so surrendered shall terminate both as to the Company and as to any
successor corporation.

      Section 14.04 Notices.

      Except as otherwise expressly provided herein any notice or demand that by
any provision of this Indenture is required or permitted to be given or served
by the Trustee or by the holders of Securities to or on the Company may be given
or served by being deposited first class postage prepaid in a post-office
letterbox addressed (until another address is filed in writing by the Company
with the Trustee), as follows: MetLife, Inc., One Madison Avenue, New York,

                                       52

New York 10010-10036, Attention: Treasurer, with copies of any notice of an
Event of Default to the attention of the General Counsel at the same address.
Any notice, election, request or demand by the Company or any Securityholder to
or upon the Trustee shall be deemed to have been sufficiently given or made, for
all purposes, if given or made in writing at the Corporate Trust Office of the
Trustee.

      Section 14.05 Governing Law.

      This Indenture and each Security shall be deemed to be a contract made
under the internal laws of the State of New York, and for all purposes shall be
construed in accordance with the laws of said State.

      Section 14.06 Treatment of Securities as Debt.

      It is intended that the Securities will be treated as indebtedness and not
as equity for federal income tax purposes. The provisions of this Indenture
shall be interpreted to further this intention.

      Section 14.07 Compliance Certificates and Opinions.

      (a) Upon any application or demand by the Company to the Trustee to take
any action under any of the provisions of this Indenture, the Company, shall
furnish to the Trustee an Officers' Certificate stating that all conditions
precedent provided for in this Indenture relating to the proposed action have
been complied with and an Opinion of Counsel stating that in the opinion of such
counsel all such conditions precedent have been complied with, except that in
the case of any such application or demand as to which the furnishing of such
documents is specifically required by any provision of this Indenture relating
to such particular application or demand, no additional certificate or opinion
need be furnished.

      (b) Each certificate or opinion provided for in this Indenture and
delivered to the Trustee with respect to compliance with a condition or covenant
in this Indenture shall include (1) a statement that the Person making such
certificate or opinion has read such covenant or condition; (2) a brief
statement as to the nature and scope of the examination or investigation upon
which the statements or opinions contained in such certificate or opinion are
based; (3) a statement that, in the opinion of such Person, he has made such
examination or investigation as is necessary to enable him to express an
informed opinion as to whether or not such covenant or condition has been
complied with; and (4) a statement as to whether or not, in the opinion of such
Person, such condition or covenant has been complied with.

      Section 14.08 Payments on Business Days.

      Except as provided pursuant to Section 2.01 pursuant to a Board
Resolution, and as set forth in an Officers' Certificate, or established in one
or more indentures supplemental to this Indenture, in any case where the date of
maturity of interest or principal of any Security or the date of redemption of
any Security shall not be a Business Day, then payment of interest or principal,
and premium, if any, may be made on the next succeeding Business Day with the
same force and effect as if made on the nominal date of maturity or redemption,
and no interest shall accrue for the period after such nominal date.

                                       53

Section 14.09 Conflict with Trust Indenture Act.

      If and to the extent that any provision of this Indenture limits,
qualifies or conflicts with the duties imposed by Sections 310 to 317,
inclusive, of the Trust Indenture Act, such imposed duties shall control.

      Section 14.10 Counterparts.

      This Indenture may be executed in any number of counterparts, each of
which shall be an original, but such counterparts shall together constitute but
one and the same instrument.

      Section 14.11 Separability.

      In case any one or more of the provisions contained in this Indenture or
in the Securities of any series shall for any reason be held to be invalid,
illegal or unenforceable in any respect, such invalidity, illegality or
unenforceability shall not affect any other provisions of this Indenture or of
such Securities, but this Indenture and such Securities shall be construed as if
such invalid or illegal or unenforceable provision had never been contained
herein or therein.

      Section 14.12 Assignment.

      The Company will have the right at all times to assign any of its rights
or obligations under this Indenture to a direct or indirect wholly owned
subsidiary of the Company, provided that, in the event of any such assignment,
the Company, will remain liable for all such obligations. Subject to the
foregoing, the Indenture is binding upon and inures to the benefit of the
parties thereto and their respective successors and assigns. This Indenture may
not otherwise be assigned by the parties thereto.

      Section 14.13 Acknowledgment of Rights.

      The Company acknowledges that, with respect to any Securities held by a
MetLife Trust or a trustee of such Trust, if the Property Trustee of such Trust
fails to enforce its rights under this Indenture as the holder of the series of
Securities held as the assets of such MetLife Trust, any holder of Preferred
Securities may institute legal proceedings directly against the Company to
enforce such Property Trustee's rights under this Indenture without first
instituting any legal proceedings against such Property Trustee or any other
person or entity. Notwithstanding the foregoing, if an Event of Default has
occurred and is continuing and such event is attributable to the failure of the
Company to pay interest or principal on the applicable series of Securities on
the date such interest or principal is otherwise payable (or in the case of
redemption, on the redemption date), the Company acknowledges that a holder of
Preferred Securities may directly institute a proceeding for enforcement of
payment to such holder of the principal of or interest on the applicable series
of Securities having a principal amount equal to the aggregate liquidation
amount of the Preferred Securities of such holder as determined after the
respective due date specified in the applicable series of Securities.

                                       54

ARTICLE XV

                           SUBORDINATION OF SECURITIES

      Section 15.01 Agreement to Subordinate.

      The Company covenants and agrees, and each holder of Securities issued
hereunder and under any supplemental indenture or by any resolutions by the
Board of Directors ("Additional Provisions") by such holder's acceptance thereof
likewise covenants and agrees, that all Securities shall be issued subject to
the provisions of this Article Fifteen; and each holder of a Security, whether
upon original issue or upon transfer or assignment thereof, accepts and agrees
to be bound by such provisions.

      The payment by the Company of the principal of, premium, if any, and
interest on all Securities issued hereunder and under any Additional Provisions
shall, to the extent and in the manner hereinafter set forth, be subordinate in
right of payment to the prior payment in full of all Senior Indebtedness of the
Company, whether outstanding at the date of this Indenture or thereafter
incurred.

      No provision of this Article Fifteen shall prevent the occurrence of any
default or Event of Default hereunder.

      Section 15.02 Default on Senior Indebtedness.

      In the event and during the continuation of any default by the Company in
the payment of principal, premium, interest or any other payment due on any
Senior Indebtedness of the Company, as the case may be, or in the event that the
maturity of any Senior Indebtedness of the Company, as the case may be, has been
accelerated because of a default, then, in either case, no payment shall be made
by the Company with respect to the principal (including redemption and sinking
fund payments) of, or premium, if any, or interest on the Securities.

      In the event that, notwithstanding the foregoing, any payment shall be
received by the Trustee when such payment is prohibited by the preceding
paragraph of this Section 15.02, before all Senior Indebtedness is paid in full,
such payment shall be held in trust for the benefit of, and shall be paid over
or delivered to, the holders of Senior Indebtedness or their respective
representatives, or to the trustee or trustees under any indenture pursuant to
which any of such Senior Indebtedness may have been issued, as their respective
interests may appear.

      Section 15.03 Liquidation; Dissolution; Bankruptcy.

      Upon any payment by the Company or distribution of assets of the Company
of any kind or character, whether in cash, property or securities, to creditors
upon any dissolution or winding-up or liquidation or reorganization of the
Company, whether voluntary or involuntary or in bankruptcy, insolvency,
receivership, general assignment, marshaling of any assets or liabilities for
the benefit of creditors or other proceedings, all amounts due upon all Senior
Indebtedness of the Company shall first be paid in full, or payment thereof
provided for in money in accordance with its terms, before any payment is made
by the Company on account of the principal, and premium, if any, or interest on
the Securities; and upon any such dissolution or

                                       55

winding-up or liquidation or reorganization, any payment by the Company, or
distribution of assets of the Company of any kind or character, whether in cash,
property or securities, to which the holders or the Trustee would be entitled to
receive from the Company, except for the provisions of this Article Fifteen,
shall be paid by the Company or by any receiver, trustee in bankruptcy,
liquidating trustee, agent or other Person making such payment or distribution,
or by the holders or by the Trustee under the Indenture if received by them or
it, directly to the holders of Senior Indebtedness of the Company (pro rata to
such holders on the basis of the respective amounts of Senior Indebtedness held
by such holders, as calculated by the Company) or their representative or
representatives, or to the trustee or trustees under any indenture pursuant to
which any instruments evidencing such Senior Indebtedness may have been issued,
as their respective interests may appear, to the extent necessary to pay such
Senior Indebtedness in full, in money or money's worth, after giving effect to
any concurrent payment or distribution to or for the holders of such Senior
Indebtedness, before any payment or distribution is made to the holders or to
the Trustee.

      In the event that, notwithstanding the foregoing, any payment or
distribution of assets of the Company of any kind or character, whether in cash,
property or securities, prohibited by the foregoing, shall be received by the
Trustee before all Senior Indebtedness of the Company is paid in full, or
provision is made for such payment in money in accordance with its terms, such
payment or distribution shall be held in trust for the benefit of and shall be
paid over or delivered to the holders of such Senior Indebtedness or their
representative or representatives, or to the trustee or trustees under any
indenture pursuant to which any instruments evidencing such Senior Indebtedness
may have been issued, and their respective interests may appear, as calculated
by the Company, for application to the payment of all Senior Indebtedness of the
Company, as the case may be, remaining unpaid to the extent necessary to pay
such Senior Indebtedness in full in money in accordance with its terms, after
giving effect to any concurrent payment or distribution to or for the benefit of
the holders of such Senior Indebtedness.

      For purposes of this Article Fifteen, the words "cash, property or
securities" shall not be deemed to include shares of stock of the Company as
reorganized or readjusted, or securities of the Company or any other corporation
provided for by a plan of reorganization or readjustment, the payment of which
is subordinated at least to the extent provided in this Article Fifteen with
respect to the Securities to the payment of all Senior Indebtedness of the
Company, as the case may be, that may at the time be outstanding, provided that
such Senior Indebtedness is assumed by the new corporation, if any, resulting
from any such reorganization or readjustment, and (ii) the rights of the holders
of such Senior Indebtedness are not, without the consent of such holders,
altered by such reorganization or readjustment. The consolidation of the Company
with, or the merger of the Company into, another corporation or the liquidation
or dissolution of the Company following the conveyance or transfer of its
property as an entirety, or substantially as an entirety, to another corporation
upon the terms and conditions provided for in Article Ten of this Indenture
shall not be deemed a dissolution, winding-up, liquidation or reorganization for
the purposes of this Section 15.03 if such other corporation shall, as a part of
such consolidation, merger, conveyance or transfer, comply with the conditions
stated in Article Ten of this Indenture. Nothing in Section 15.02 or in this
Section 15.03 shall apply to claims of, or payments, the Trustee under or
pursuant to Section 7.06 of this Indenture.

                                       56

Section 15.04 Subrogation.

      Subject to the payment in full of all Senior Indebtedness of the Company,
the rights of the holders of the Securities shall be subrogated to the rights of
the holders of such Senior Indebtedness to receive payments or distributions of
cash, property or securities of the Company, as the case may be, applicable to
such Senior Indebtedness until the principal of, and premium, if any and
interest on the Securities shall be paid in full; and, for the purposes of such
subrogation, no payments or distributions to the holders of such Senior
Indebtedness of any cash, property or securities to which the holders of the
Securities or the Trustee would be entitled except for the provisions of this
Article Fifteen, and no payment over pursuant to the provisions of this Article
Fifteen to or for the benefit of the holders of such Senior Indebtedness by
holders of the Securities or the Trustee, shall, as between the Company, its
creditors other than holders of Senior Indebtedness of the Company, and the
holders of the Securities, be deemed to be a payment by the Company to or on
account of such Senior Indebtedness. It is understood that the provisions of
this Article Fifteen are and are intended solely for the purposes of defining
the relative rights of the holders of the Securities, on the one hand, and the
holders of such Senior Indebtedness on the other hand.

      Nothing contained in this Article Fifteen or elsewhere in this Indenture,
any Additional Provisions or in the Securities is intended to or shall impair,
as between the Company, its creditors other than the holders of Senior
Indebtedness of the Company, and the holders of the Securities, the obligation
of the Company, which is absolute and unconditional, to pay to the holders of
the Securities the principal of, and premium, if any and interest on the
Securities as and when the same shall become due and payable in accordance with
their terms, or is intended to or shall affect the relative rights of the
holders of the Securities and creditors of the Company, as the case may be,
other than the holders of Senior Indebtedness of the Company, as the case may
be, nor shall anything herein or therein prevent the Trustee or the holder of
any Security from exercising all remedies otherwise permitted by applicable law
upon default under this Indenture, subject to the rights, if any, under this
Article Fifteen of the holders of such Senior Indebtedness in respect of cash,
property or securities of the Company, as the case may be, received upon the
exercise of any such remedy.

      Upon any payment or distribution of assets of the Company referred to in
this Article Fifteen, the Trustee, subject to the provisions of Article Seven of
this Indenture, and the holders shall be entitled to conclusively rely upon any
order or decree made by any court of competent jurisdiction in which such
dissolution, winding-up, liquidation or reorganization proceedings are pending,
or a certificate of the receiver, trustee in bankruptcy, liquidation trustee,
agent or other Person making such payment or distribution, delivered to the
Trustee or to the holders, for the purposes of ascertaining the Persons entitled
to participate in such distribution, the holders of Senior Indebtedness and
other indebtedness of the Company, as the case may be, the amount thereof or
payable thereon, the amount or amounts paid or distributed thereon and all other
facts pertinent thereto or to this Article Fifteen.

      Section 15.05 Trustee to Effectuate Subordination.

      Each holder of Securities by such holder's acceptance thereof authorizes
and directs the Trustee on such holder's behalf to take such action as may be
necessary or appropriate to

                                       57

effectuate the subordination provided in this Article Fifteen and appoints the
Trustee such holder's attorney-in-fact for any and all such purposes.

      Section 15.06 Notice by the Company.

      The Company shall give prompt written notice to a Responsible Officer of
the Trustee of any fact known to the Company that would prohibit the making of
any payment of monies to or by the Trustee in respect of the Securities pursuant
to the provisions of this Article Fifteen. Notwithstanding the provisions of
this Article Fifteen or any other provision of this Indenture or any Additional
Provisions, the Trustee shall not be charged with knowledge of the existence of
any facts that would prohibit the making of any payment of monies to or by the
Trustee in respect of the Securities pursuant to the provisions of this Article
Fifteen, unless and until a Responsible Officer of the Trustee shall have
received written notice thereof from the Company or a holder or holders of
Senior Indebtedness or from any trustee therefor; and before the receipt of any
such written notice, the Trustee, subject to the provisions of Article Six of
this Indenture, shall be entitled in all respects to assume that no such facts
exist; provided, however, that if the Trustee shall not have received the notice
provided for in this Section 15.06 at least two Business Days prior to the date
upon which by the terms hereof any money may become payable for any purpose
(including, without limitation, the payment of the principal of, or premium, if
any or interest on any debt security), then, anything herein contained to the
contrary notwithstanding, the Trustee shall have full power and authority to
receive such money and to apply the same to the purposes for which they were
received, and shall not be affected by any notice to the contrary that may be
received by it within two Business Days prior to such date.

      The Trustee, subject to the provisions of Article Seven of this Indenture,
shall be entitled to conclusively rely on the delivery to it of a written notice
by a Person representing himself to be a holder of Senior Indebtedness of the
Company, as the case may be (or a trustee on behalf of such holder), to
establish that such notice has been given by a holder of such Senior
Indebtedness or a trustee on behalf of any such holder or holders. In the event
that the Trustee determines in good faith that further evidence is required with
respect to the right of any Person as a holder of such Senior Indebtedness to
participate in any payment or distribution pursuant to this Article Fifteen, the
Trustee may request such Person to furnish evidence to the reasonable
satisfaction of the Trustee as to the amount of such Senior Indebtedness held by
such Person, the extent to which such Person is entitled to participate in such
payment or distribution and any other facts pertinent to the rights of such
Person under this Article Fifteen, and, if such evidence is not furnished, the
Trustee may defer any payment to such Person pending judicial determination as
to the right of such Person to receive such payment.

      Section 15.07 Rights of the Trustee; Holders of Senior Indebtedness.

      The Trustee in its individual capacity shall be entitled to all the rights
set forth in this Article Fifteen in respect of any Senior Indebtedness at any
time held by it, to the same extent as any other holder of Senior Indebtedness,
and nothing in this Indenture or any Additional Provisions shall deprive the
Trustee of any of its rights as such holder.

      With respect to the holders of Senior Indebtedness of the Company, the
Trustee undertakes to perform or to observe only such of its covenants and
obligations as are specifically

                                       58

set forth in this Article Fifteen, and no implied covenants or obligations with
respect to the holders of such Senior Indebtedness shall be read into this
Indenture or any Additional Provisions against the Trustee. The Trustee shall
not be deemed to owe any fiduciary duty to the holders of such Senior
Indebtedness and, subject to the provisions of Article Seven of this Indenture,
the Trustee shall not be liable to any holder of such Senior Indebtedness if it
shall pay over or deliver to holders, the Company or any other Person money or
assets to which any holder of such Senior Indebtedness shall be entitled by
virtue of this Article Fifteen or otherwise.

      Nothing in this Article Fifteen shall apply to claims of, or payments to,
the Trustee under or pursuant to Section 7.06.

      Section 15.08 Subordination May Not Be Impaired.

      No right of any present or future holder of any Senior Indebtedness of the
Company to enforce subordination as herein provided shall at any time in any way
be prejudiced or impaired by any act or failure to act on the part of the
Company, as the case may be, or by any act or failure to act, in good faith, by
any such holder of Securities, or by any noncompliance by the Company, as the
case may be, with the terms, provisions and covenants of this Indenture,
regardless of any knowledge thereof that any such holder may have or otherwise
be charged with.

      Without in any way limiting the generality of the foregoing paragraph, the
holders of Senior Indebtedness of the Company may, at any time and from time to
time, without the consent of or notice to the Trustee or the holders of
Securities, without incurring responsibility to the holders of Securities and
without impairing or releasing the subordination provided in this Article
Fifteen or the obligations hereunder of the holders of the Securities to the
holders of such Senior Indebtedness, do any one or more of the following: (i)
change the manner, place or terms of payment or extend the time of payment of,
or renew or alter, such Senior Indebtedness, or otherwise amend or supplement in
any manner such Senior Indebtedness or any instrument evidencing the same or any
agreement under which such Senior Indebtedness is outstanding; (ii) sell,
exchange, release or otherwise deal with any property pledged, mortgaged or
otherwise securing such Senior Indebtedness; (iii) release any Person liable in
any manner for the collection of such Senior Indebtedness; and (iv) exercise or
refrain from exercising any rights against the Company, as the case may be, and
any other Person.

      This instrument may be executed in any number of counterparts, each of
which so executed shall be deemed to be an original. But all such counterparts
shall together constitute but one and the same instrument.

                                       59

IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto have caused this Indenture to be
duly executed as of the day and year first above written.

                                           METLIFE, INC.

                                           By: /s/ Anthony J. Williamson
                                               -----------------------------
                                               Name:
                                               Title:

J.P. MORGAN TRUST COMPANY,
                                              NATIONAL ASSOCIATION,
                                              as Trustee

                                           By: /s/ Paul J. Schmalzel
                                               -----------------------------
                                               Name:  Paul J. Schmalzel
                                               Title: Authorized Signatory

60

</EX-4.41.A>

<EX-4.42>
 7
 y87657exv4w42.txt
 EX-4.42

EXHIBIT 4.42

================================================================================

                                 METLIFE, INC.,
                                     ISSUER

                                       and

                J.P. MORGAN TRUST COMPANY, NATIONAL ASSOCIATION,
                                     TRUSTEE

                          First Supplemental Indenture

                            Dated as of June 21, 2005

                  Supplement to the Indenture of MetLife, Inc.
                            dated as of June 21, 2005

================================================================================

TABLE OF CONTENTS

Page
                                                                                     ----
                                                                                    
                                    ARTICLE I
                              DEFINITIONS AND SCOPE

Section 1.1  Definition of Terms................................................       2

Section 1.2  Scope..............................................................       4

                                   ARTICLE II
             GENERAL TERMS AND CONDITIONS OF THE SERIES A DEBENTURES

Section 2.1  Designation, Principal Amount and Authorized Denomination..........       4

Section 2.2  Maturity...........................................................       5

Section 2.3  Form and Payment...................................................       5

Section 2.4  Global Series A Debenture..........................................       5

Section 2.5  Interest...........................................................       7

Section 2.6  Redemption of the Series A Debentures..............................       7

Section 2.7  Put Right of Holders...............................................       7

Section 2.8  Restrictions on Certain Payments, Including on Deferral of
             Interest...........................................................       8

Section 2.9  Notice of Defaults; Amount Payable upon Acceleration...............       9

Section 2.10 CUSIP Numbers......................................................       9

Section 2.11 Security Registrar and Paying Agent................................       9

Section 2.12 Company Elections in Connection with Remarketing...................       9

                                   ARTICLE III
                                    EXPENSES

Section 3.1  Expenses...........................................................      11

                                   ARTICLE IV
                           FORM OF SERIES A DEBENTURES

Section 4.1  Form of Series A Debentures........................................      11

                                    ARTICLE V
                      ORIGINAL ISSUE OF SERIES A DEBENTURES

Section 5.1  Original Issue of Series A Debentures..............................      21

                                   ARTICLE VI
                      EVENTS OF DEFAULT, WAIVER AND NOTICE

Section 6.1  Event of Default...................................................      21

                                   ARTICLE VII
                                  SUBORDINATION

i

ii

THIS FIRST SUPPLEMENTAL INDENTURE, dated as of June 21, 2005 (this "First
Supplemental Indenture"), to the Base Indenture (as defined below), dated as of
the date hereof, between METLIFE, INC., a Delaware corporation (the "Company"),
and J.P. MORGAN TRUST COMPANY, NATIONAL ASSOCIATION, not in its individual
capacity but solely as trustee under the Indenture (as defined below), a
national banking association (the "Trustee").

      WHEREAS, the Company and the Trustee have entered into an Indenture, dated
as of the date hereof (the "Base Indenture," and together with this First
Supplemental Indenture, the "Indenture"); and

      WHEREAS, Section 9.01 of the Base Indenture provides that the Base
Indenture may be amended without the consent of any Holder (i) to provide for
the issuance of and establish the form and terms and conditions of the
Securities (as defined in the Base Indenture) of any series as provided in
Section 2.01 of the Base Indenture and (ii) to add to, change or eliminate any
of the provisions of the Base Indenture in respect of one or more series of
Securities, provided that any such addition, change or elimination does not
apply to any Security of any series created prior to the execution of the
amendment;

      WHEREAS, the Company has delivered to the Trustee an Opinion of Counsel
and an Officers' Certificate pursuant to Section 14.07 of the Base Indenture to
the effect that all conditions precedent provided for in the Base Indenture to
the Trustee's execution and delivery of this First Supplemental Indenture have
been complied with;

      WHEREAS, MetLife Capital Trust II, a Delaware statutory trust (the
"Trust"), has offered to the public its Series A Trust Preferred Securities (the
"Trust Preferred Securities"), representing undivided beneficial interests in
the assets of the Trust, and proposes to invest the proceeds from such offering,
together with the proceeds of the issuance and sale by the Trust to the Company
of its Common Securities (together with the Trust Preferred Securities, the
"Trust Securities"), in the Series A Debentures;

      WHEREAS, the Trust Preferred Securities and the Series A Debentures will
be subject to Remarketing, in connection with which certain terms of the Trust
Preferred Securities and the Series A Debentures may be changed, all in
accordance with the procedures to be set forth in a Remarketing Agreement to be
entered into among the Company, the Trust (in the event the Trust Preferred
Securities are outstanding on any Remarketing Date), the Stock Purchase Contract
Agent and the Remarketing Agent; and

      WHEREAS, the Company has requested that the Trustee execute and deliver
this First Supplemental Indenture and satisfy all requirements necessary to make
this First Supplemental Indenture a valid instrument in accordance with its
terms, and to make the Series A Debentures, when executed by the Company and
authenticated and delivered by the Trustee, the valid obligations of the Company
and all acts and things necessary have been done and performed to make this
First Supplemental Indenture enforceable in accordance with its terms, and the
execution and delivery of this First Supplemental Indenture has been duly
authorized in all respects:

      NOW, THEREFORE, the Company and the Trustee agree as follows:

                                       1

ARTICLE I

                              DEFINITIONS AND SCOPE

      Section 1.1 Definition of Terms.

      Unless the context otherwise requires:

      (a) a term defined in the Base Indenture has the same meaning when used in
this First Supplemental Indenture unless otherwise specified herein;

      (b) a term defined anywhere in this First Supplemental Indenture has the
same meaning throughout;

      (c) the singular includes the plural and vice versa;

      (d) headings are for convenience of reference only and do not affect
interpretation;

      (e) the following terms have the meanings given to them in the Trust
Agreement: Administrative Trustee; Delaware Trustee; Distributions; Initial
Liquidation Amount; Property Trustee; Record Date; Remarketing; Remarketing
Agent; Remarketing Agreement; Remarketing Date; Remarketing Settlement Date;
Trust Preferred Securities Certificate; Stock Purchase Contract Agent and
Successful.

      (f) the following terms have the meanings given to them in this Section
1.1(f):

            "Accreted Interest" means, for any Interest Period for any Series A
      Debenture as of any date of determination, (i) the Accreted Principal
      Amount of such Series A Debenture at the beginning of the Interest Period
      in which such date occurs, multiplied by (ii) the Applicable Yield for
      such Interest Period, multiplied by (iii) the quotient of the actual
      number of days elapsed from and including the first day of such Interest
      Period, to but excluding the date of determination divided by 360;
      provided that the Accreted Interest for any full Interest Period shall be
      calculated by reference to the actual number of days in such Interest
      Period divided by 360.

            "Accreted Principal Amount" means, for any Series A Debenture as of
      any date of determination, (i) the Original Principal Amount of such
      Series A Debenture, plus (ii) the sum of the Accreted Interest (if any)
      for each Interest Period concluding on or prior to such date, plus (iii)
      the Accreted Interest for the Interest Period in which such date occurs as
      of the date of determination.

            "Additional Interest" means the interest that shall accrue on any
      interest on the Series A Debentures the payment of which has not been made
      on the applicable Interest Payment Date. References herein to "interest"
      include Additional Interest unless the context otherwise requires.

            "Applicable Yield" means (1) prior to the Remarketing Settlement
      Date, 0%, (2) if a Remarketing occurs, unless the Company has elected that
      the Series A Debentures will

                                       2

bear cash interest, from and after the applicable Remarketing Settlement
      Date, for any Interest Period, the Reset Yield for such Interest Period
      and (3) if a Remarketing has occurred and the Company has elected to have
      the Series A Debentures bear cash interest, 0%.

            "Collateral Agent" has the meaning set forth in the Stock Purchase
      Contract Agreement.

            "Creditor" has the meaning set forth in Section 3.1.

            "Holder" means a Securityholder (as defined in the Base Indenture)
      of the Series A Debentures.

            "Early Termination Event" means the dissolution of the Trust and the
      distribution of the Series A Debentures held by the Property Trustee to
      the holders of the Trust Securities issued by the Trust pro rata in
      accordance with the Trust Agreement.

            "Final Failed Remarketing" has the meaning set forth in the Stock
      Purchase Contract Agreement.

            "Global Series A Debentures" has the meaning set forth in Section
      2.4.

            "Interest Period" means (1) prior to the Stock Purchase Date, the
      period from and including the most recent Interest Payment Date to which
      interest has been paid or duly made available for payment (or June 21,
      2005 if no interest has been paid or been duly made available for payment)
      to, but excluding, the next succeeding Interest Payment Date, (2) if a
      Remarketing occurs, unless the Company has elected that the Series A
      Debentures will bear cash interest from and after such Remarketing, the
      period from and including the applicable Remarketing Settlement Date to
      the Stated Maturity of the Series A Debentures, and (3) if a Remarketing
      has occurred and the Company has elected to have the Series A Debentures
      bear cash interest, the period from and including the applicable
      Remarketing Settlement Date or, if later, the most recent Interest Payment
      Date to which interest has been paid or duly made available, to but
      excluding the next succeeding Interest Payment Date, or, if earlier, then
      the Stated Maturity of the Series A Debentures.

            "Non Book-Entry Trust Preferred Securities" has the meaning set
      forth in Section 2.4.

            "Normal Common Equity Units" has the meaning set forth in the Stock
      Purchase Contract Agreement.

            "Original Principal Amount" of a Series A Debenture means the stated
      Original Principal Amount as set forth on the face of such Series A
      Debenture.

            "Reset Rate" means the rate of interest on the Series A Debentures,
      if any, set in a Remarketing in which the Company elected that the Series
      A Debentures would pay

                                       3

interest in cash following such Remarketing (defined in the Trust
      Agreement as the "Reset Rate" applicable in such circumstances).

            "Reset Yield" means the yield to maturity on the Series A
      Debentures, if any, set in a Remarketing in which the Company did not
      elect that the Series A Debentures would pay interest in cash following
      such Remarketing (defined in the Trust Agreement as the "Reset Rate"
      applicable in such circumstances).

            "Series A Debentures" has the meaning set forth in Section 4.1.

            "Stock Purchase Contract" has the meaning set forth in the Stock
      Purchase Contract Agreement.

            "Stock Purchase Contract Agreement" means that certain agreement,
      dated as of the date hereof, between the Company and J.P. Morgan Trust
      Company, National Association, as Stock Purchase Contract Agent.

            "Stock Purchase Date" has the meaning set forth in the Stock
      Purchase Contract Agreement.

            "Trust" has the meaning set forth in the recitals hereto.

            "Trust Agreement" means the Amended and Restated Declaration of
      Trust, dated as of the date hereof, among the Company, as sponsor, the
      Property Trustee, the Delaware Trustee and the Administrative Trustees and
      the several Holders (as defined therein) relating to the Trust.

            "Trust Securities" has the meaning provided in the recitals hereto.

      Section 1.2 Scope. The changes, modifications and supplements to the Base
Indenture effected by this First Supplemental Indenture shall only be applicable
with respect to, and govern the terms of, the Series A Debentures and shall not
apply to any other series of Securities that may be issued under the Base
Indenture unless a supplemental indenture with respect to such other series of
Securities specifically incorporates such changes, modifications and
supplements.

                                   ARTICLE II

             GENERAL TERMS AND CONDITIONS OF THE SERIES A DEBENTURES

      Section 2.1 Designation, Principal Amount and Authorized Denomination.

      There is hereby authorized a series of Securities designated the 4.82%
Junior Subordinated Debt Securities, Series A, due 2039 (the "Series A
Debentures"), limited in aggregate principal amount to $1,067,010,000, which
amount to be issued shall be as set forth in any written order of the Company
for the authentication and delivery of Series A Debentures pursuant to the
Indenture. The Series A Debentures shall be issuable in denominations of $1,000
Original Principal Amount and integral multiples thereof.

                                       4

Section 2.2 Maturity.

      The Stated Maturity of the Series A Debentures will be February 15, 2039,
subject to change as provided in Section 2.12.

      Section 2.3 Form and Payment.

      Except as provided in Section 2.4, the Series A Debentures shall be issued
in fully registered definitive form without interest coupons. Principal of and
interest on the Series A Debentures issued in definitive form will be payable,
the transfer of such Series A Debentures will be registrable and such Series A
Debentures will be exchangeable for Series A Debentures bearing identical terms
and provisions at the office or agency of the Trustee; provided, however, that
payment of interest may be made at the option of the Company by check mailed to
the Holder at such address as shall appear in the Register or by wire transfer
in immediately available funds to the bank account number of the Holder
specified in writing by the Holder and entered in the Register by the Registrar.
Notwithstanding the foregoing, so long as the Holder of any Series A Debenture
is the Property Trustee, the payment of the principal of and interest (including
expenses and taxes of the Trust set forth in Section 3.1 hereof, if any) on such
Series A Debentures held by the Property Trustee will be made at such place and
to such account as may be designated in writing by the Property Trustee.

      Section 2.4 Global Series A Debenture.

      (a) The Depository Trust Company shall serve as the initial Depositary for
the Series A Debentures.

      (b) The Series A Debentures shall be issued initially in fully registered
form in the name of the Property Trustee, in its capacity as such. In connection
with an Early Termination Event,

      (i) the Series A Debentures in definitive form may be presented to the
Trustee by the Property Trustee for exchange for one or more Global Securities
(as defined in the Base Indenture) representing Series A Debentures in an
aggregate Original Principal Amount equal to the aggregate Original Principal
Amount of all outstanding Series A Debentures (each a "Global Series A
Debenture"), to be registered in the name of the Depositary, or its nominee, and
delivered by the Property Trustee to the Depositary for crediting to the
accounts of its participants pursuant to the instructions of the Administrative
Trustees. The Company upon any such presentation shall execute one or more
Global Series A Debentures in such aggregate Original Principal Amount and
deliver the same to the Trustee for authentication and delivery in accordance
with the Indenture. The Trustee, upon receipt of such Global Series A
Debentures, together with an Officers' Certificate requesting authentication,
will authenticate such Global Series A Debentures. Payments on the Series A
Debentures issued as Global Series A Debentures will be made to the Depositary;
and

      (ii) if any Trust Preferred Securities are held in non book-entry
definitive form, the Series A Debentures in certificated form may be presented
to the Trustee by the Property Trustee and any Trust Preferred Securities
Certificate which represents Trust Preferred Securities other

                                       5

than Trust Preferred Securities held by the Depositary or its nominee ("Non
Book-Entry Trust Preferred Securities") will be deemed to represent beneficial
interests in the Series A Debentures presented to the Trustee by the Property
Trustee having an aggregate Original Principal Amount equal to the aggregate
Initial Liquidation Amount of the Non Book-Entry Trust Preferred Securities
until such Trust Preferred Securities Certificates are presented to the Property
Trustee for transfer or reissuance, at which time such Trust Preferred
Securities Certificates will be cancelled and a Series A Debenture, registered
in the name of the Holder of the Trust Preferred Securities Certificate or the
transferee of the Holder of such Trust Preferred Securities Certificate, as the
case may be, with an aggregate Original Principal Amount equal to the aggregate
Initial Liquidation Amount of the Trust Preferred Securities Certificate
cancelled, will be executed by the Company and delivered to the Trustee for
authentication and delivery in accordance with the Indenture to such Holder. The
Trustee, upon receipt of such Series A Debenture together with an Officers'
Certificate requesting authentication, shall authenticate such Series A
Debenture. On issue of such Series A Debentures, Series A Debentures with an
equivalent aggregate Original Principal Amount that were presented by the
Property Trustee to the Trustee will be deemed to have been cancelled.

      (c) Unless and until it is exchanged for the Series A Debentures in
definitive form, a Global Series A Debenture may be transferred, in whole but
not in part, only by the Depository or the nominee of the Depository to another
nominee of the Depositary, or to a successor Depositary selected or approved by
the Company or to a nominee of such successor Depositary.

      (d) If after Global Series A Debentures are issued (a) at any time the
Depositary for Global Series A Debentures notifies the Company that it is
unwilling or unable to continue as Depositary for such Global Series A
Debentures or if at any time the Depositary for such Global Series A Debentures
shall no longer be a clearing agency registered or in good standing under the
Securities Exchange Act of 1934 or other applicable statute or regulation when
the Depository is required to be so registered to act as the Depository, and in
either case a successor Depositary for such Global Series A Debentures is not
appointed by the Company within 90 days after the Company receives such notice
or becomes aware of such condition, as the case may be, or (b) the Company
determines in its sole discretion that the Series A Debentures shall no longer
be represented by one or more Global Series A Debentures and delivers to the
Trustee an Officer's Certificate evidencing such determination, then the Company
will execute and the Trustee, upon receipt of an Officer's Certificate
evidencing such determination by the Company, will authenticate and deliver
Series A Debentures of like tenor in definitive registered form, in authorized
denominations, and in aggregate Original Principal Amount equal to the Original
Principal Amount of the Global Series A Debentures in exchange for such Global
Series A Debentures. Upon the exchange of Global Series A Debentures for such
Series A Debentures in definitive registered form without coupons, in authorized
denominations, the Global Series A Debentures shall be canceled by the Trustee.
Such Series A Debentures in definitive registered form issued in exchange for
Global Series A Debentures pursuant to this Section shall be registered in such
names and in such authorized denominations as the Depositary, pursuant to
instructions from its direct or indirect participants or otherwise, shall
instruct the Trustee. The Trustee shall deliver such Series A Debentures to the
Persons in whose names such Series A Debentures are so registered.

                                       6

Section 2.5 Interest.

      (a) Each Series A Debenture will bear interest and, following the
Remarketing Settlement Date, interest or Accreted Interest, as applicable, all
as provided in the form of Series A Debentures set forth in Section 4.1 hereof.

      (b) The Company shall have the right to defer the payment of cash interest
on the Series A Debentures, as provided in Section 4.01 of the Base Indenture,
for one or more Deferral Periods of not longer than five years each. The Company
shall give the Trustee notice of its election to begin any such Deferral Period
at least five Business Days prior to the earlier of (i) the next succeeding date
on which Distributions on the Trust Preferred Securities would be payable but
for such deferral, and (ii) the date on which the Property Trustee is required
to give notice to holders of the Trust Preferred Securities of the Record Date
or the date such Distributions are payable, but in any event not less than five
Business Days prior to such Record Date, provided, however, that in no event
shall such notice of election be sent more than fifteen Business Days prior to
the date on which payments of all amounts then due in respect of the Trust
Preferred Securities are scheduled to occur.

      (c) The Series A Debentures are not entitled to any sinking fund payments.

      Section 2.6 Redemption of the Series A Debentures.

      (a) The Series A Debentures shall not be subject to the right of
redemption specified in Section 3.01 of the Base Indenture.

      (b) If in connection with the Remarketing the Series A Debentures become
redeemable at the option of the Company, any such redemption shall be effected
in accordance with Article III of the Base Indenture.

      Section 2.7 Put Right of Holders.

      If a there has not been a Successful Remarketing prior to February 15,
2009, each Holder of Series A Debentures will have the right to require the
Company to purchase all or a portion of its Series A Debentures on such date as
described below. Such right will be exercisable only upon delivery of notice to
the Trustee (i) for as long as the Series A Debentures are held by the Property
Trustee, on or prior to 11:00 A.M., New York City time, on the Business Day
immediately prior to February 15, 2009, or (ii) in all other cases, on or prior
to 11:00 A.M., New York City time on the second Business Day prior to February
15, 2009. The Company shall purchase such Series A Debentures at a Repayment
Price consisting of cash in an amount equal to 100% of the Accreted Principal
Amount thereof as of such date, plus a junior subordinated note of the Company
(which shall be subordinated and rank junior in right of payment to all of the
Company's existing and future Senior Indebtedness), bearing interest at the rate
of 4.82% per annum, in the amount of the accrued and unpaid interest (including
Additional Interest), if any, to, but excluding such date and payable on August
15, 2010 or, if February 15, 2009 is during a Deferral Period, the fifth
anniversary of the first day of such Deferral Period. Settlement of such
purchase shall be effected on February 15, 2009. Subject to the foregoing, any
such purchase by the Company shall be effected in accordance with Article III of
the Base Indenture.

                                       7

Section 2.8 Restrictions on Certain Payments, Including on Deferral of
Interest.

      If there shall have occurred and be continuing any event that, with the
giving of notice or the lapse of time, or both, would be an Event of Default
with respect to the Series A Debentures of which the Company shall have actual
knowledge and which the Company shall not have taken reasonable steps to cure;
the Series A Debentures shall be held by the Trust and the Company shall be in
default with respect to its payment of any obligations under the Guarantee; or
the Company shall have given notice of its election to begin a Deferral Period
with respect to the Series A Debentures as provided herein and shall not have
rescinded such notice, and such Deferral Period, or any extension thereof, shall
be continuing, then the Company covenants and agrees with the Holders that it
shall not:

      (a) declare or pay any dividends or distributions on, or redeem, purchase,
acquire or make a liquidation payment with respect to, any shares of capital
stock of the Company other than

      (i) any repurchase, redemption or other acquisition of shares of capital
stock of the Company in connection with (x) any employment contract, benefit
plan or other similar arrangement with or for the benefit of any one or more
employees, officers, directors, consultants or independent contractors, (y) a
dividend reinvestment or stockholder purchase plan, or (z) the issuance of
capital stock of the Company, or securities convertible into or exercisable for
such capital stock, as consideration in an acquisition transaction entered into
prior to the applicable Event of Default, Default or Deferral Period, as the
case may be;

      (ii) any exchange, redemption or conversion of any class or series of
capital stock of the Company, or the capital stock of one of the Company's
subsidiaries, for any other class or series of capital stock of the Company, or
of any class or series of the Company's indebtedness for any class or series of
capital stock of the Company;

      (iii) any purchase of, or payment of cash in lieu of, fractional interests
in shares of capital stock of the Company pursuant to the conversion or exchange
provisions of such capital stock or the securities being converted or exchanged;

      (iv) any declaration of a dividend in connection with any rights plan, or
the issuance of rights, stock or other property under any rights plan, or the
redemption or repurchase of rights pursuant thereto;

      (v) payments by the Company under any Guarantee related to the Trust
Preferred Securities; or

      (vi) any dividend in the form of stock, warrants, options or other rights
where the dividend stock or stock issuable upon exercise of such warrants,
options or other rights is the same stock as that on which the dividend is being
paid or ranks equal with or junior to such stock;

      (b) make any payment of principal of, or interest or premium, if any, on,
or repay, repurchase or redeem any debt securities issued by the Company that
rank equal with or junior to the Series A Debentures; or

                                       8

(c) make any payment under any guarantee that ranks equally with or junior
to the Guarantee related to the Trust Preferred Securities.

      Section 2.9 Notice of Defaults; Amount Payable upon Acceleration.

      (a) The Trustee shall provide to the Holders of the Trust Preferred
Securities such notices as it shall from time to time provide under Section 6.01
of the Base Indenture. In addition, the Trustee shall provide to the Holders of
the Trust Preferred Securities notice of any Event of Default or event which,
with the giving of notice or lapse of time, or both, would become an Event of
Default with respect to the Series A Debentures within 30 days after such Event
of Default or other event becomes known to the Trustee.

      (b) Upon declaration of acceleration of the Maturity of the Series A
Debentures pursuant to Section 6.01 of the Base Indenture, the Accreted
Principal Amount of and all accrued but unpaid interest on all Series A
Debentures shall become due and payable immediately.

      Section 2.10 CUSIP Numbers.

      The Company may from time to time obtain CUSIP numbers for the Series A
Debentures and, if so, the Trustee shall use CUSIP numbers in notices as a
convenience to Holders; provided that any such notice may state that no
representation is made as to the correctness of such numbers either as printed
on the Series A Debentures or as contained in any notice and that reliance may
be placed only the other identification numbers printed on the Series A
Debentures, and no action shall be affected by any defect in or omission of such
numbers. The Company shall promptly notify the Trustee of any change in the
CUSIP numbers.

      Section 2.11 Security Registrar and Paying Agent.

      The Company initially appoints the Trustee as the Security Registrar and
Paying Agent for the Series A Debentures.

      Section 2.12 Company Elections in Connection with Remarketing.

      In connection with Remarketings, the Company shall have the right
hereunder to change certain terms of the Series A Debentures as provided below
in this Section 2.12. By not later than the 25th Business Day prior to each
Remarketing Date, the Company will specify the following information or
elections in a notice to the Remarketing Agent, the Property Trustee, the
Trustee and the Stock Purchase Contract Agent (paragraph (a) through (e)
applying only if the Remarketing is Successful and paragraph (f) applying only
if the related Remarketing is the Final Failed Remarketing):

      (a) whether from and after the Remarketing Settlement Date the Series A
Debentures will pay interest in cash (it being understood and agreed that,
unless the Company affirmatively elects to cause the Series A Debentures to pay
interest in cash from and after the Remarketing Settlement Date, interest will
not be paid in cash but, instead, will accrete as provided in the Series A
Debentures);

                                       9

(b) whether the Stated Maturity of the Series A Debentures will remain at
February 15, 2039 or will be changed to an earlier date (specifying such date if
applicable); provided, however, that the Stated Maturity of the Series A
Debentures may not be changed to a date earlier than the second anniversary of
the Stock Purchase Date or, if the Remarketing Settlement Date occurs during a
Deferral Period, the fifth anniversary of the first day of such Deferral Period;

      (c) whether the Series A Debentures will be redeemable at the Company's
option on a day prior to the Stated Maturity of the Series A Debentures and, if
so, the date on and after which the Series A Debentures may be so redeemed;
provided, however, that an early redemption date may not be a date earlier than
the second anniversary of the Stock Purchase Date or, if the Remarketing
Settlement Date occurs during a Deferral Period, the fifth anniversary of the
first day of such Deferral Period;

      (d) whether the Company elects, in connection with the Remarketing, to add
any additional financial covenants to the Indenture, including the form of
supplemental indenture proposed to be entered into in order to give effect to
any such additional financial covenants;

      (e) whether in connection with such Remarketing the Company is exercising
its right under Section 6.2 of this First Supplemental Indenture to cause the
subordination provisions in the Indenture applicable to the Series A Debentures
to no longer be of force and effect from and after the then current Remarketing
Settlement Date; and if so, whether it also elects that the Series A Debentures
shall no longer be subject to the interest deferral provisions of Section 4.01
of the Base Indenture; and

      (f) if the related Remarketing is the Final Failed Remarketing:

      (i) whether the Stated Maturity of the Series A Debentures will remain at
February 15, 2039 or will be changed to an earlier date (specifying such date if
applicable); and

      (ii) whether the Series A Debentures will be redeemable at the Company's
option on a date prior to the Stated Maturity of the Series A Debentures and, if
so, the date on and after which the Series A Debentures may be so redeemed;

provided, however, any changed Stated Maturity of the Series A Debentures
determined pursuant to clause (i) or early redemption date determined pursuant
to clause (ii) may not be a date earlier than the second anniversary of the
Stock Purchase Date or, if February 15, 2009 occurs during a Deferral Period,
the fifth anniversary of the first day of such Deferral Period.

      Prior to an Early Termination Event, any such elections made by the
Company as Sponsor pursuant to the Trust Agreement shall, upon successful
completion of a Remarketing, automatically apply and come into effect in respect
of the Series A Debentures. In the event of an Early Termination Event, the
provisions of Article X of the Trust Agreement shall be deemed thereafter to
apply, mutatis mutandis, to any Remarketing of the Series A Debentures, and the
Company and the Trustee shall promptly enter into a supplemental indenture, in
form reasonably satisfactory to the Trustee, making provision for remarketing
and reset mechanics, including notices in respect thereof, on the basis set
forth in such Article X.

                                       10

ARTICLE III

                                    EXPENSES

      Section 3.1 Expenses.

      In connection with the offering, sale and issuance of the Series A
Debentures to the Property Trustee and in connection with the sale of the Trust
Preferred Securities by the Trust, the Company, in its capacity as borrower with
respect to the Series A Debentures, shall:

      (a) pay all costs and expenses relating to the offering, sale and issuance
of the Series A Debentures, including commissions to the underwriters payable
pursuant to the Underwriting Agreement and compensation, fees and expenses
(including reasonable counsel fees and expenses) of the Trustee under the
Indenture in accordance with the provisions of the Indenture; and

      (b) be responsible for and shall pay all debts and obligations and all
costs and expenses of the Trust (including, but not limited to, costs and
expenses relating to the organization, maintenance and dissolution of the
Trust), the offering, sale and issuance of the Trust Preferred Securities
(including commissions to the underwriters in connection therewith), the fees
and expenses (including reasonable counsel fees and expenses) of the Property
Trustee, the Delaware Trustee and the Administrative Trustees, the costs and
expenses relating to the operation of the Trust, including, without limitation,
costs and expenses of accountants, attorneys, statistical or bookkeeping
services, expenses for printing and engraving and computing or accounting
equipment, paying agent(s), registrar(s), transfer agent(s), duplicating, travel
and telephone and other telecommunications expenses and costs and expenses
incurred in connection with the acquisition, financing, and disposition of Trust
assets and the enforcement by the Property Trustee of the rights of the Holders
of the Series A Debentures.

      The Company's obligations under this Section 3.1 shall be for the benefit
of, and shall be enforceable by, any person to whom such debts, obligations and
costs are owed (a "Creditor") whether or not such Creditor has received notice
hereof. Any such Creditor may enforce the Company's obligations under this
Section 3.1 directly against the Company and the Company irrevocably waives any
right or remedy to require that any such Creditor take any action against the
Trust or any other Person before proceeding against the Company. The Company
agrees to execute such additional agreements as may be necessary or desirable in
order to give full effect to the provisions of this Section 3.1.

                                   Article IV

                           FORM OF SERIES A DEBENTURES

      Section 4.1 Form of Series A Debentures.

      The Series A Debentures and the Trustee's Certificate of Authentication to
be endorsed thereon are to be substantially in the following forms:

                                       11

[IF THE SERIES A DEBENTURE IS TO BE A GLOBAL SERIES A DEBENTURE,
      INSERT - This Series A Debenture is a Global Series A Debenture within the
      meaning of the Indenture (as defined on the reverse hereof) and is
      registered in the name of the Depositary or a nominee of the Depositary.
      This Series A Debenture is exchangeable for Series A Debentures registered
      in the name of a person other than the Depositary or its nominee only in
      the limited circumstances described in the Indenture, and no transfer of
      this Series A Debenture (other than a transfer of this Series A Debenture
      as a whole by the Depositary to a nominee of the Depositary or by a
      nominee of the Depositary to the Depositary or another nominee of the
      Depositary) may be registered except in limited circumstances.

            Unless this Series A Debenture is presented by an authorized
      representative of The Depository Trust Company (55 Water Street, New York,
      New York) to the issuer or its agent for registration of transfer,
      exchange or payment, and any Series A Debenture issued is registered in
      the name of Cede & Co. or such other name as requested by an authorized
      representative of The Depository Trust Company and any payment hereon is
      made to Cede & Co., ANY TRANSFER, PLEDGE OR OTHER USE HEREOF FOR VALUE OR
      OTHERWISE BY A PERSON IS WRONGFUL since the registered owner hereof, Cede
      & Co., has an interest herein.]

                                       12

THE SERIES A DEBENTURES ARE THE UNSECURED AND UNSUBORDINATED OBLIGATIONS OF
METLIFE, INC. AND ARE NOT DEPOSITS, SAVINGS ACCOUNTS OR OTHER OBLIGATIONS OF ANY
BANK OR SAVINGS ASSOCIATION. THE SERIES A DEBENTURES ARE NOT INSURED BY THE
FEDERAL DEPOSIT INSURANCE CORPORATION, THE BANK INSURANCE FUND OR ANY OTHER
GOVERNMENT AGENCY OR INSURER.

                                       13

No. _____________________                       Original Principal Amount: $____
Issue Date: June 21, 2005                       CUSIP No.: _____________________
                                                ISIN: __________________________

                                  METLIFE, INC.

          4.82% JUNIOR SUBORDINATED DEBT SECURITIES, SERIES A, DUE 2039

      METLIFE, INC., a Delaware corporation (the "Company", which term includes
any successor corporation under the Indenture (as defined on the reverse
hereof)) for value received, hereby promises to pay to J.P. Morgan Trust
Company, National Association, AS PROPERTY TRUSTEE, the Accreted Principal
Amount (as defined in the Indenture) on February 15, 2039 or such earlier date
as may be specified by the Company following a Remarketing (as defined in the
Indenture) (such date is hereinafter referred to as the "Stated Maturity Date").
This Series A Debenture shall bear interest and Accreted Interest (as defined in
the Indenture) as specified on the reverse hereof and in the Indenture.

      This Series A Debenture shall not be entitled to any benefit under the
Indenture, be valid or become obligatory for any purpose, until the Certificate
of Authentication hereon shall have been executed by the Trustee.

                                       14

The provisions of this Series A Debenture are continued on the reverse
side hereof and such continued provisions shall for all purposes have the same
effect as though fully set forth at this place.

      IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the Company has caused this instrument to be executed.

Dated:

                                                 METLIFE, INC.

                                                 By:____________________________
                                                 Name:
                                                 Title:

                                       15

CERTIFICATE OF AUTHENTICATION

      This is one of the Series A Debentures referred to in the Indenture.

Dated:

                                                 J.P. MORGAN TRUST COMPANY,
                                                 NATIONAL ASSOCIATION,
                                                 as Trustee

                                                 By: ___________________________
                                                     Authorized Signatory

                                       16

(FORM OF REVERSE OF SERIES A DEBENTURE)

      This Series A Debenture is one of a duly authorized series (the "Series A
Debentures") of the Securities (as defined in the Base Indenture) of the
Company, issued under and pursuant to a Indenture, dated as of June 21, 2005
(the "Base Indenture"), between the Company and J.P. Morgan Trust Company,
National Association (the "Trustee"), as amended and supplemented by the First
Supplemental Indenture, dated as of June 21, 2005 between the Company and the
Trustee (the "First Supplemental Indenture", and together with the Base
Indenture, the "Indenture"), to which Indenture and all indentures supplemental
thereto reference is hereby made for a description of the rights, limitations of
rights, obligations, duties and immunities thereunder of the Trustee, the
Company and the Holders of the Series A Debentures. By the terms of the
Indenture, the Securities are issuable in series that may vary as to amount,
date of maturity, rate of interest and in other respects as provided in the Base
Indenture.

      This Series A Debenture will bear interest from June 21, 2005 or from the
most recent date to which interest has been paid or duly provided for, at the
rate per annum equal to 4.82%, subject to reset as set forth below; in addition,
each installment of interest that would otherwise have been due and payable
during any Deferral Period shall bear Additional Interest to the extent
permitted by applicable law, which shall accrue at the rate per annum at which
interest accrues in respect of the principal of the Series A Debentures,
compounded quarterly prior to the Stock Purchase Date, and semi-annually
thereafter, from the applicable Interest Payment Date. Subject to the Company's
right to defer interest payments as provided in the Indenture, such interest
shall be payable, (1) prior to the Stock Purchase Date, quarterly in arrears on
February 15, May 15, August 15 and November 15 of each year (each, an "Interest
Payment Date"), commencing August 15, 2005, and (2) after the Stock Purchase
Date, if the Series A Debentures continue to bear cash interest, semi-annually
in arrears on the Interest Payment Dates following six months and twelve months
after the Stock Purchase Date and thereafter on the respective anniversaries
thereof. Interest on this Series A Debenture shall be calculated on the basis of
a 360-day year composed of twelve 30-day months. Interest payable on this Series
A Debenture on any Interest Payment Date will include interest for the
immediately preceding Interest Period. The interest so payable and punctually
paid or duly provided for on any Interest Payment Date will, as provided in the
Indenture, be paid to the Person in whose name this Series A Debenture (or one
or more Predecessor Series A Debenture) is registered at the close of business
on the regular record date for such interest payment, which shall be the first
day of the month in which such interest payment is due. Any interest which is
payable, but is not punctually paid or duly provided for, on any Interest
Payment Date shall forthwith cease to be payable to the registered Holder hereof
on the relevant regular record date by virtue of having been such Holder, and
may be paid to the Person in whose name this Series A Debenture (or one or More
Predecessor Series A Debenture) is registered at the close of business on a
special record date for the payment of such Defaulted Interest to be fixed by
the Company, notice whereof shall be given to the Holders of Series A Debenture
not less than 10 days prior to such special record date, or may be paid at any
time in any other lawful manner not inconsistent with the requirements of any
securities exchange on which the Series A Debentures may be listed, and upon
such notice as may be required by such exchange, all as more fully provided in
the Indenture.

      From and after the Stock Purchase Date, the Company will no longer be
required to pay cash interest unless the Company elects prior to the Remarketing
that following the Remarketing

                                       17

the Series A Debentures will bear cash interest pursuant to the Indenture. From
and after the Stock Purchase Date, the Original Principal Amount of this Series
A Debenture shall accrete daily at the Applicable Yield for each Interest
Period, which shall be 0% during any period for which the Company has elected
pursuant to the Indenture that the Series A Debentures will bear cash interest.

      If the Accreted Principal Amount hereof or any portion of such Accreted
Principal Amount is not paid when due (whether upon acceleration, upon the date
set for payment of the Redemption Price or upon the Stated Maturity of this
Series A Debenture) or if interest due hereon (or any portion of such interest),
is not paid when due, then in each such case the overdue amount shall, to the
extent permitted by law, bear interest at the rate then borne by this Series A
Debenture or, if any overdue amount exists on or after the Repurchase Settlement
Date, at the Applicable Yield or Reset Yield or Reset Rate, if any, of this
Series A Debenture for the applicable Interest Period, compounded at the end of
such Interest Period, which interest shall accrue from the date such overdue
amount was originally due to the date payment of such amount, including interest
thereon, has been made or duly provided for. All such interest shall be payable
as set forth in the Indenture.

      Subject to the terms and conditions of the Indenture, the Company will
make payments in respect of the Redemption Price and at the Stated Maturity of
the Series A Debentures to Holders who surrender Series A Debentures to a Paying
Agent to collect such payments in respect of the Series A Debentures; provided
that if any Redemption Date is an Interest Payment Date, accrued and unpaid
interest shall be paid to the Holder of record as of the applicable regular
record date. The Company will pay cash amounts in money of the United States
that at the time of payment is legal tender for payment of public and private
debts. However, the Company may make such cash payments by check payable in such
money; provided that payment by wire transfer of immediately available funds
will be required with respect to principal of and interest on all Global Series
A Debentures. If any Interest Payment Date (other than an Interest Payment Date
coinciding with the Stated Maturity or earlier Redemption Date) falls on a day
that is not a Business Day, such Interest Payment Date will be postponed to the
next succeeding Business Day and no interest on such payment will accrue for the
period from and after the Interest Payment Date to such next succeeding Business
Day, but if that Business Day is in the next succeeding calendar year, then that
payment shall be made on the immediately preceding Business Day, with the same
force and effect as if made on that date. If the Stated Maturity or Redemption
Date of this Series A Debenture would fall on a day that is not a Business Day,
the required payment of interest, if any, and principal will be made on the next
succeeding Business Day and no interest on such payment will accrue and no
principal will accrete for the period from and after the Stated Maturity or
Redemption Date to such next succeeding Business Day.

      No sinking fund is provided for the Series A Debentures. Prior to the
Remarketing Settlement Date, the Series A Debentures shall not be redeemable at
the option of the Company. If the Company so specifies in connection with the
Remarketing, the Series A Debentures shall be redeemable on and after the date
so specified by the Company for cash as a whole, or from time to time in part,
at the option of the Company at a Redemption Price equal to 100% of the Accreted
Principal Amount of the Series A Debentures, plus accrued and unpaid interest
to, but excluding, the Redemption Date.

                                       18

If the Company redeems less than all of the outstanding Series A
Debentures, the Trustee will select the Series A Debentures to be redeemed (i)
by lot; (ii) pro rata; or (iii) by another method the Trustee considers fair and
appropriate. The Company may not redeem less than all of the outstanding Series
A Debentures if the Accreted Principal Amount has been accelerated and such
acceleration has not been rescinded.

      Notice of redemption will be mailed at least 30 days but not more than 60
days before the Redemption Date to each Holder of Series A Debentures to be
redeemed at the Holder's registered address. If money sufficient to pay the
Redemption Price of all Series A Debentures (or portions thereof) to be redeemed
on the Redemption Date is deposited with the Paying Agent prior to or on the
Redemption Date, immediately after such Redemption Date interest shall cease to
accrue and principal will cease to accrete on such Series A Debentures or
portions thereof. Series A Debentures in denominations larger than $1,000
Original Principal Amount may be redeemed in part but only in integral multiples
of $1,000.

      If a Remarketing occurs, then the Series A Debentures shall be remarketed
and the Reset Yield or Reset Rate, as the case may be, shall be established as
set forth in the Indenture.

      If there has not been a Successful Remarketing prior to February 15, 2009,
each Holder of Series A Debentures will have the right to require the Company to
purchase all or a portion of its Series A Debentures on such date, as set forth
in the Indenture. The Company shall purchase such Series A Debentures at a
Repayment Price consisting of cash in an amount equal to 100% of the Accreted
Principal Amount thereof as of such date, plus a note of the Company, bearing
interest at the rate of 4.82% per annum, in the amount of the accrued and unpaid
interest (including Additional Interest), if any, to, but excluding such date
and payable on August 15, 2010 or, if February 15, 2009 is during a Deferral
Period, the fifth anniversary of the first day of such Deferral Period.

      In case an Event of Default, as defined in the Indenture, shall have
occurred and be continuing, the Accreted Principal Amount of all of the Series A
Debentures may be declared, and upon such declaration shall become, due and
payable, in the manner, with the effect and subject to the conditions provided
in the Indenture.

      The Indenture contains provisions permitting the Company and the Trustee,
with the consent of the Holders of not less than a majority in aggregate
principal amount of the Series A Debentures at the time Outstanding (as defined
in the Indenture) to execute supplemental indentures for the purpose of, among
other things, adding any provisions to or changing in any manner or eliminating
any of the provisions of the Indenture or of any supplemental indenture or of
modifying in any manner the rights of the Holders of the Series A Debentures;
provided, however, that, among other things, no such supplemental indenture
shall (i) reduce the principal amount thereof, or reduce the rate or extend the
time of payment of interest thereon without the consent of the Holder of each
Series A Debenture so affected, or (ii) reduce the aforesaid percentage of
Series A Debentures, the Holders of which are required to consent to any such
supplemental indenture, without the consent of the Holders of each Series A
Debenture then Outstanding and affected thereby. The Indenture also contains
provisions permitting the Holders of a majority in aggregate principal amount of
the Series A Debentures at the time Outstanding affected thereby, on behalf of
all of the Holders of the Series A Debentures, to waive a default or

                                       19

Event of Default with respect to the Series A Debentures, and its consequences,
except a default or Event of Default in the payment of the principal of or
interest on any of the Series A Debentures or a default in respect of a
provision that under Article IX of the Base Indenture cannot be amended without
the consent of each holder affected thereby. Any such consent or waiver by the
registered Holder of this Series A Debenture (unless revoked as provided in the
Indenture) shall be conclusive and binding upon such Holder and upon all future
Holders and owners of this Series A Debenture and of any Series A Debenture
issued in exchange for or in place hereof (whether by registration of transfer
or otherwise) irrespective of whether or not any notation of such consent or
waiver is made upon this Series A Debenture.

      No reference herein to the Indenture and no provision of this Series A
Debenture or of the Indenture shall alter or impair the obligation of the
Company, which is absolute and unconditional, to pay the principal of and
interest on this Series A Debenture at the time and place and at the rate and in
the money herein prescribed.

      As provided in the Indenture and subject to certain limitations therein
set forth, this Series A Debenture is transferable by the registered Holder
hereof on the Security Register of the Company, upon surrender of this Series A
Debenture for registration of transfer at the office or agency of the Trustee in
The City of New York and State of New York accompanied by a written instrument
or instruments of transfer in form satisfactory to the Company or the Trustee
duly executed by the registered Holder hereof or his attorney duly authorized in
writing, and thereupon one or more new Series A Debentures of authorized
denominations and for the same aggregate principal amount will be issued to the
designated transferee or transferees. No service charge will be made for any
such transfer, but the Company may require payment of a sum sufficient to cover
any tax, assessment or other governmental charge payable in relation thereto.

      Prior to due presentment for registration of transfer of this Series A
Debenture, the Company, the Trustee, any paying agent and the Security Registrar
may deem and treat the registered holder hereof as the absolute owner hereof
(whether or not this Series A Debenture shall be overdue and notwithstanding any
notice of ownership or writing hereon made by anyone other than the Security
Registrar) for the purpose of receiving payment of or on account of the
principal hereof and interest due hereon and for all other purposes, and neither
the Company nor the Trustee nor any paying agent nor any Security Registrar
shall be affected by any notice to the contrary.

      No recourse shall be had for the payment of the principal of or the
interest on this Series A Debenture, or for any claim based hereon, or otherwise
in respect hereof, or based on or in respect of the Indenture, against any
incorporator, shareholder, officer or director, past, present or future, as
such, of the Company or of any predecessor or successor corporation, whether by
virtue of any constitution, statute or rule of law, or by the enforcement of any
assessment or penalty or otherwise, all such liability being, by the acceptance
hereof and as part of the consideration for the issuance hereof, expressly
waived and released.

      The Indenture imposes certain limitations on the ability of the Company
to, among other things, merge or consolidate with any other Person or sell,
assign, transfer, lease or convey all or substantially all of its properties and
assets. All such covenants and limitations are subject to a

                                       20

number of important qualifications and exceptions. The Company must report
periodically to the Trustee on compliance with the covenants in the Indenture.

      The Series A Debentures are issuable only in registered form without
coupons, in denominations of $1,000 Original Principal Amount and any integral
multiple thereof. As provided in the Indenture and subject to certain
limitations therein set forth, Series A Debentures so issued are exchangeable
for a like aggregate principal amount of Series A Debentures of a different
authorized denomination, as requested by the Holder surrendering the same.

      All terms used in this Series A Debenture that are defined in the
Indenture shall have the meanings assigned to them in the Indenture.

      This Series A Debenture shall be governed by and construed in accordance
with the laws of the State of New York, without regard to its principles of
conflicts of laws.

                                       21

ASSIGNMENT

FOR VALUE RECEIVED, the undersigned assigns and transfers this Series A
Debenture to:

________________________________________________________________________________

________________________________________________________________________________

________________________________________________________________________________

        (Insert assignee's social security or tax identification number)

________________________________________________________________________________

________________________________________________________________________________

________________________________________________________________________________

                    (Insert address and zip code of assignee)

agent to transfer this Series A Debenture on the books of the Security
Registrar. The agent may substitute another to act for him or her.

Dated:                                                  Signature:

                              Signature Guarantee:

(Sign exactly as your name appears on the other side of this Series A Debenture)

      Signatures must be guaranteed by an "eligible guarantor institution"
meeting the requirements of the Registrar, which requirements include membership
or participation in the Security Transfer Agent Medallion Program ("STAMP") or
such other "signature guarantee program" as may be determined by the Registrar
in addition to, or in substitution for, STAMP, all in accordance with the
Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended.

                                       22

ARTICLE V

                      ORIGINAL ISSUE OF SERIES A DEBENTURES

      Section 5.1 Original Issue of Series A Debentures.

      Series A Debentures in the aggregate principal amount of $1,067,010,000
may, upon execution of this First Supplemental Indenture, be executed by the
Company and delivered to the Trustee for authentication, and the Trustee shall
thereupon authenticate and deliver said Series A Debentures in accordance with a
Company Order. The Issue Date of the Series A Debentures shall be deemed to be
June 21, 2005.

                                   ARTICLE VI

                      EVENTS OF DEFAULT, WAIVER AND NOTICE

      Section 6.1 Event of Default

      (a) An "Event of Default," when used in the Indenture with respect to the
Series A Debentures, means any one or more of the following events that shall
have occurred and be continuing:

      (i) the Company defaults in the payment of any installment of interest
(including Additional Interest) upon the Series A Debentures, as and when the
same shall become due and payable, and continuance of such default for a period
of 20 consecutive quarters; provided, however, that during any Deferral Period
for the Series A Debentures, failure to pay interest on the Series A Debentures
shall not constitute a default in the payment of interest for this purpose;

      (ii) the Company defaults in the payment of the principal of the Series A
Debentures as and when the same shall become due and payable whether at
maturity, upon redemption, because of acceleration or otherwise, or in any
payment required by any sinking or analogous fund establishment with respect to
the Series A Debentures; or

      (iii) the entry by a court of competent jurisdiction of:

            (A) a decree or order for relief in respect of the Company in an
      involuntary proceeding under any applicable Bankruptcy Law and such decree
      or order shall remain unstayed and in effect for a period of 60
      consecutive days;

            (B) a decree or order adjudging the Company to be insolvent, or
      approving a petition seeking reorganization, arrangement, adjustment or
      composition of the Company and such decree or order shall remain unstayed
      and in effect for a period of 60 consecutive days; or

            (C) a final and non-appealable order appointing a Custodian (as
      defined in the Base Indenture) of the Company or MetLife Bank, National
      Association ("MetLife Bank") or of any substantial part of the property of
      the Company or MetLife Bank, or ordering the winding up or liquidation of
      the affairs of the Company or of MetLife Bank;

                                       23

(iv) the Company pursuant to or within the meaning of any Bankruptcy Law;
(A) commences a voluntary case or proceeding; (B) consents to the entry of an
order for relief against it in an involuntary case or proceeding; (C) files a
petition or answer or consent seeking reorganization or relief or consents to
such filing or to the appointment of or taking possession by a Custodian of it
or for all or substantially all of its property, and such Custodian is not
discharged within 60 days; (D) makes a general assignment for the benefit of its
creditors; or (E) admits in writing its inability to pay its debts generally as
they become due.

      (b) If an Event of Default (other than an Event of Default specified in
Sections 6.1(a)(iii) and 6.1(a)(iv) hereof) with respect to the Series A
Debentures at the time Outstanding occurs and is continuing, either the Trustee
or the Holders of no less than 25% in aggregate principal amount of the Series A
Debentures then Outstanding, by notice in writing to the Company (and to the
Trustee if by such Holders), may declare the Accreted Principal Amount of and
all accrued but unpaid interest on all the Series A Debentures to be due and
payable immediately, and upon such declaration the same shall become and shall
be immediately due and payable.

      (c) At any time after the principal of the Series A Debentures shall have
been so declared due and payable, and before any judgment or decree for the
payment of the moneys due shall have been obtained or entered as hereinafter
provided, the Holders of a majority in aggregate principal amount of the Series
A Debentures then Outstanding hereunder, by written notice to the Company and
the Trustee, may rescind and annul such declaration and its consequences if: (i)
the Company has paid or deposited with the Trustee a sum sufficient to pay all
matured installments of interest upon all the Series A Debentures and the
principal of, and premium, if any, on any and all Series A Debentures that shall
have become due otherwise than by acceleration (with interest upon such
principal and premium, if any, and, to the extent that such payment is
enforceable under applicable law, upon overdue installments of interest, at
4.82% per annum and the amount payable to the Trustee under Section 7.06 of the
Base Indenture, and (ii) any and all Events of Default under the Indenture,
other than the nonpayment of Accreted Principal Amount on the Series A
Debentures that shall not have become due by their terms, shall have been
remedied or waived as provided in Section 6.08 of the Base Indenture.

      No such rescission and annulment shall extend to or shall affect any
subsequent default or impair any right consequent thereon.

      (d) The Company shall, within 120 days of the end of each fiscal year of
the Company ending after the date hereof, furnish to the Trustee an Officers'
Certificate stating, to the knowledge of the certifying Officer, as to whether
any Event of Default as defined in the Indenture has occurred and is continuing.

      (e) If the Series A Debentures are held by the Trust or a trustee of the
Trust, notwithstanding Section 6.04 of the Base Indenture or any other provision
in this Indenture, any registered Holder of the Trust Preferred Securities shall
have the right, upon the occurrence of an Event of Default described in Sections
6.1(a)(i) and 6.1(a)(ii) hereof, to institute a suit directly, or to cause the
Property Trustee to institute a suit against the Company for enforcement of
payment to such Holder of the interest, subject to Section 4.01 of the Base
Indenture, on the

                                       24

Series A Debentures; and such right shall not be impaired without the consent of
such Holder, subject, however, to the provisions of Article XV of the Base
Indenture and Article VII of this First Supplemental Indenture.

                                   ARTICLE VII

                                  SUBORDINATION

      Section 7.1 Subordination.

      The subordination provisions contained in Article XV of the Base Indenture
shall apply to the Series A Debentures. For purposes of the Series A Debentures
and application of Article XV of the Base Indenture to the Series A Debentures,
"Senior Indebtedness" means any obligation of the Company to its creditors,
whether outstanding at the date of the execution of this Supplemental Indenture
or subsequently incurred, including the items enumerated in clauses(i)-(vii) of
the definition of "Senior Indebtedness" in Section 1.01 of the Base Indenture,
other than any obligation as to which, in the instrument creating or evidencing
the obligation or pursuant to which the obligation is outstanding, it is
provided that such obligation is not senior in right of payment to the Series A
Debentures, but does not include trade accounts payable or any junior
subordinated debt securities underlying Tier 1 eligible trust preferred
securities issued in the future or other deeply subordinated capital instruments
that the Federal Reserve Board may authorize in the future for inclusion as Tier
1 capital. The Series A Debentures shall rank equal with, and shall not be
senior in right of payment to, the Company's 4.91% Junior Subordinated
Securities, Series B, due 2040 to be issued pursuant to the Base Indenture as
supplemented by the Second Supplemental Indenture thereto, to be dated the date
hereof, and the Preferred Securities Guarantee Agreements to be dated the date
hereof.

      Section 7.2 Company Election to End Subordination.

      The Company may elect, at any time effective on or after the Stock
Purchase Date, including in connection with a Remarketing, that its obligations
under the Series A Debentures shall be senior obligations instead of
subordinated obligations, in which case the provisions this Article VII and, if
the Company so elects, Section 4.01 of the Base Indenture, shall thereafter no
longer apply to the Series A Debentures. The Company shall give the Trustee
notice of any such election not later than the effective time, and shall
promptly issue a press release through Bloomberg Business News or other
reasonable means of distribution.

      Section 7.3 Compliance with Federal Reserve Board Rules.

      The Company shall not incur any additional indebtedness for borrowed money
that ranks pari passu with or junior to the Series A Debentures (if then subject
to this Article VII), except in compliance with applicable regulation and
guidelines of the Federal Reserve Board.

                                       25

ARTICLE VIII

                                  MISCELLANEOUS

      Section 8.1 Effectiveness.

      This First Supplemental Indenture will become effective upon its execution
and delivery.

      Section 8.2 Further Assurances.

      The Company will, at its own cost and expense, execute and deliver any
documents or agreements, and take any other actions, which the Trustee or its
counsel may from time to time request in order to assure the Trustee of the
benefits of the rights granted to the Trustee under the Indenture.

      Section 8.3 Effect of Recitals.

      The recitals in this First Supplemental Indenture are made by the Company
and not by the Trustee, and the Trustee shall not be responsible for the
validity or sufficiency hereof.

      Section 8.4 Ratification of Base Indenture.

      The Base Indenture as supplemented by this First Supplemental Indenture,
is in all respects ratified and confirmed, and the Base Indenture and this First
Supplemental Indenture shall be deemed part of the Indenture in the manner and
to the extent herein and therein provided.

      Section 8.5 Governing Law.

      THE INDENTURE AND EACH SERIES A DEBENTURE SHALL BE DEEMED TO BE A CONTRACT
MADE UNDER THE INTERNAL LAWS OF THE STATE OF NEW YORK, AND FOR ALL PURPOSES
SHALL BE CONSTRUED IN ACCORDANCE WITH THE LAWS OF SAID STATE.

      Section 8.6 Counterparts.

      This First Supplemental Indenture may be executed in any number of
counterparts, each of which shall be an original, but such separate counterparts
shall together constitute but one and the same instrument.

                                       26

IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto have caused this First Supplemental
Indenture to be duly executed by their respective officers thereunto duly
authorized, on the date or dates indicated in the acknowledgments and as of the
day and year first above written.

                                           METLIFE, INC.

                                           By: /s/ Anthony J. Williamson
                                               --------------------------------
                                                Name:
                                                Title:

                                           J.P. MORGAN TRUST COMPANY,
                                           NATIONAL ASSOCIATION,
                                           as Trustee

By: /s/ Paul J. Schmalzel
                                               --------------------------------
                                               Name:  Paul J. Schmalzel
                                               Title: Authorized Signatory

                                       27

</EX-4.42>

<EX-4.43>
 8
 y87657exv4w43.txt
 EX-4.43

EXHIBIT 4.43

================================================================================

                                 METLIFE, INC.,
                                     ISSUER

                                       and

                J.P. MORGAN TRUST COMPANY, NATIONAL ASSOCIATION,
                                     TRUSTEE

                          Second Supplemental Indenture

                            Dated as of June 21, 2005

                  Supplement to the Indenture of MetLife, Inc.
                            dated as of June 21, 2005

================================================================================

TABLE OF CONTENTS

Page
                                                                                         ----
                                                                                        
                                    ARTICLE I
                              DEFINITIONS AND SCOPE

Section 1.1  Definition of Terms....................................................      2

Section 1.2  Scope..................................................................      4

                                   ARTICLE II
             GENERAL TERMS AND CONDITIONS OF THE SERIES B DEBENTURES

Section 2.1  Designation, Principal Amount and Authorized Denomination..............      4

Section 2.2  Maturity...............................................................      5

Section 2.3  Form and Payment.......................................................      5

Section 2.4  Global Series B Debenture..............................................      5

Section 2.5  Interest...............................................................      7

Section 2.6  Redemption of the Series B Debentures..................................      7

Section 2.7  Put Right of Holders...................................................      7

Section 2.8  Restrictions on Certain Payments, Including on Deferral of Interest....      8

Section 2.9  Notice of Defaults; Amount Payable upon Acceleration...................      9

Section 2.10 CUSIP Numbers..........................................................      9

Section 2.11 Security Registrar and Paying Agent....................................      9

Section 2.12 Company Elections in Connection with Remarketing.......................      9

                                   ARTICLE III
                                    EXPENSES

Section 3.1  Expenses...............................................................     11

                                   ARTICLE IV
                           FORM OF SERIES B DEBENTURES

Section 4.1  Form of Series B Debentures............................................     11

                                    ARTICLE V
                      ORIGINAL ISSUE OF SERIES B DEBENTURES

Section 5.1  Original Issue of Series B Debentures..................................     21

                                   ARTICLE VI
                      EVENTS OF DEFAULT, WAIVER AND NOTICE

Section 6.1  Event of Default.......................................................     21

                                   ARTICLE VII
                                  SUBORDINATION

i

ii

THIS SECOND SUPPLEMENTAL INDENTURE, dated as of June 21, 2005 (this
"Second Supplemental Indenture"), to the Base Indenture (as defined below),
dated as of the date hereof, between METLIFE, INC., a Delaware corporation (the
"Company"), and J.P. MORGAN TRUST COMPANY, NATIONAL ASSOCIATION, not in its
individual capacity but solely as trustee under the Indenture (as defined
below), a national banking association (the "Trustee").

      WHEREAS, the Company and the Trustee have entered into an Indenture, dated
as of the date hereof (the "Base Indenture," and together with this Second
Supplemental Indenture, the "Indenture"); and

      WHEREAS, Section 9.01 of the Base Indenture provides that the Base
Indenture may be amended without the consent of any Holder (i) to provide for
the issuance of and establish the form and terms and conditions of the
Securities (as defined in the Base Indenture) of any series as provided in
Section 2.01 of the Base Indenture and (ii) to add to, change or eliminate any
of the provisions of the Base Indenture in respect of one or more series of
Securities, provided that any such addition, change or elimination does not
apply to any Security of any series created prior to the execution of the
amendment;

      WHEREAS, the Company has delivered to the Trustee an Opinion of Counsel
and an Officers' Certificate pursuant to Section 14.07 of the Base Indenture to
the effect that all conditions precedent provided for in the Base Indenture to
the Trustee's execution and delivery of this Second Supplemental Indenture have
been complied with;

      WHEREAS, MetLife Capital Trust III, a Delaware statutory trust (the
"Trust"), has offered to the public its Series B Trust Preferred Securities (the
"Trust Preferred Securities"), representing undivided beneficial interests in
the assets of the Trust, and proposes to invest the proceeds from such offering,
together with the proceeds of the issuance and sale by the Trust to the Company
of its Common Securities (together with the Trust Preferred Securities, the
"Trust Securities"), in the Series B Debentures;

      WHEREAS, the Trust Preferred Securities and the Series B Debentures will
be subject to Remarketing, in connection with which certain terms of the Trust
Preferred Securities and the Series B Debentures may be changed, all in
accordance with the procedures to be set forth in a Remarketing Agreement to be
entered into among the Company, the Trust (in the event the Trust Preferred
Securities are outstanding on any Remarketing Date), the Stock Purchase Contract
Agent and the Remarketing Agent; and

      WHEREAS, the Company has requested that the Trustee execute and deliver
this Second Supplemental Indenture and satisfy all requirements necessary to
make this Second Supplemental Indenture a valid instrument in accordance with
its terms, and to make the Series B Debentures, when executed by the Company and
authenticated and delivered by the Trustee, the valid obligations of the Company
and all acts and things necessary have been done and performed to make this
Second Supplemental Indenture enforceable in accordance with its terms, and the
execution and delivery of this Second Supplemental Indenture has been duly
authorized in all respects:

      NOW, THEREFORE, the Company and the Trustee agree as follows:

                                       1

ARTICLE I

                              DEFINITIONS AND SCOPE

      Section 1.1 Definition of Terms.

      Unless the context otherwise requires:

      (a) a term defined in the Base Indenture has the same meaning when used in
this Second Supplemental Indenture unless otherwise specified herein;

      (b) a term defined anywhere in this Second Supplemental Indenture has the
same meaning throughout;

      (c) the singular includes the plural and vice versa;

      (d) headings are for convenience of reference only and do not affect
interpretation;

      (e) the following terms have the meanings given to them in the Trust
Agreement: Administrative Trustee; Delaware Trustee; Distributions; Initial
Liquidation Amount; Property Trustee; Record Date; Remarketing; Remarketing
Agent; Remarketing Agreement; Remarketing Date; Remarketing Settlement Date;
Trust Preferred Securities Certificate; Stock Purchase Contract Agent and
Successful.

      (f) the following terms have the meanings given to them in this Section
1.1(f):

            "Accreted Interest" means, for any Interest Period for any Series B
      Debenture as of any date of determination, (i) the Accreted Principal
      Amount of such Series B Debenture at the beginning of the Interest Period
      in which such date occurs, multiplied by (ii) the Applicable Yield for
      such Interest Period, multiplied by (iii) the quotient of the actual
      number of days elapsed from and including the first day of such Interest
      Period, to but excluding the date of determination divided by 360;
      provided that the Accreted Interest for any full Interest Period shall be
      calculated by reference to the actual number of days in such Interest
      Period divided by 360.

            "Accreted Principal Amount" means, for any Series B Debenture as of
      any date of determination, (i) the Original Principal Amount of such
      Series B Debenture, plus (ii) the sum of the Accreted Interest (if any)
      for each Interest Period concluding on or prior to such date, plus (iii)
      the Accreted Interest for the Interest Period in which such date occurs as
      of the date of determination.

            "Additional Interest" means the interest that shall accrue on any
      interest on the Series B Debentures the payment of which has not been made
      on the applicable Interest Payment Date. References herein to "interest"
      include Additional Interest unless the context otherwise requires.

            "Applicable Yield" means (1) prior to the Remarketing Settlement
      Date, 0%, (2) if a Remarketing occurs, unless the Company has elected that
      the Series B Debentures will

                                       2

bear cash interest, from and after the applicable Remarketing Settlement
      Date, for any Interest Period, the Reset Yield for such Interest Period
      and (3) if a Remarketing has occurred and the Company has elected to have
      the Series B Debentures bear cash interest, 0%.

            "Collateral Agent" has the meaning set forth in the Stock Purchase
      Contract Agreement.

            "Creditor" has the meaning set forth in Section 3.1.

            "Holder" means a Securityholder (as defined in the Base Indenture)
      of the Series B Debentures.

            "Early Termination Event" means the dissolution of the Trust and the
      distribution of the Series B Debentures held by the Property Trustee to
      the holders of the Trust Securities issued by the Trust pro rata in
      accordance with the Trust Agreement.

            "Final Failed Remarketing" has the meaning set forth in the Stock
      Purchase Contract Agreement.

            "Global Series B Debentures" has the meaning set forth in Section
      2.4.

            "Interest Period" means (1) prior to the Stock Purchase Date, the
      period from and including the most recent Interest Payment Date to which
      interest has been paid or duly made available for payment (or June 21,
      2005 if no interest has been paid or been duly made available for payment)
      to, but excluding, the next succeeding Interest Payment Date, (2) if a
      Remarketing occurs, unless the Company has elected that the Series B
      Debentures will bear cash interest from and after such Remarketing, the
      period from and including the applicable Remarketing Settlement Date to
      the Stated Maturity of the Series B Debentures, and (3) if a Remarketing
      has occurred and the Company has elected to have the Series B Debentures
      bear cash interest, the period from and including the applicable
      Remarketing Settlement Date or, if later, the most recent Interest Payment
      Date to which interest has been paid or duly made available, to but
      excluding the next succeeding Interest Payment Date, or, if earlier, then
      the Stated Maturity of the Series B Debentures.

            "Non Book-Entry Trust Preferred Securities" has the meaning set
      forth in Section 2.4.

            "Normal Common Equity Units" has the meaning set forth in the Stock
      Purchase Contract Agreement.

            "Original Principal Amount" of a Series B Debenture means the stated
      Original Principal Amount as set forth on the face of such Series B
      Debenture.

            "Reset Rate" means the rate of interest on the Series B Debentures,
      if any, set in a Remarketing in which the Company elected that the Series
      B Debentures would pay

                                       3

interest in cash following such Remarketing (defined in the Trust
      Agreement as the "Reset Rate" applicable in such circumstances).

            "Reset Yield" means the yield to maturity on the Series B
      Debentures, if any, set in a Remarketing in which the Company did not
      elect that the Series B Debentures would pay interest in cash following
      such Remarketing (defined in the Trust Agreement as the "Reset Rate"
      applicable in such circumstances).

            "Series B Debentures" has the meaning set forth in Section 4.1.

            "Stock Purchase Contract" has the meaning set forth in the Stock
      Purchase Contract Agreement.

            "Stock Purchase Contract Agreement" means that certain agreement,
      dated as of the date hereof, between the Company and J.P. Morgan Trust
      Company, National Association, as Stock Purchase Contract Agent.

            "Stock Purchase Date" has the meaning set forth in the Stock
      Purchase Contract Agreement.

            "Trust" has the meaning set forth in the recitals hereto.

            "Trust Agreement" means the Amended and Restated Declaration of
      Trust, dated as of the date hereof, among the Company, as sponsor, the
      Property Trustee, the Delaware Trustee and the Administrative Trustees and
      the several Holders (as defined therein) relating to the Trust.

            "Trust Securities" has the meaning provided in the recitals hereto.

      Section 1.2 Scope. The changes, modifications and supplements to the Base
Indenture effected by this Second Supplemental Indenture shall only be
applicable with respect to, and govern the terms of, the Series B Debentures and
shall not apply to any other series of Securities that may be issued under the
Base Indenture unless a supplemental indenture with respect to such other series
of Securities specifically incorporates such changes, modifications and
supplements.

                                   ARTICLE II

             GENERAL TERMS AND CONDITIONS OF THE SERIES B DEBENTURES

      Section 2.1 Designation, Principal Amount and Authorized Denomination.

      There is hereby authorized a series of Securities designated the 4.91%
Junior Subordinated Debt Securities, Series B, due 2040 (the "Series B
Debentures"), limited in aggregate principal amount to $1,067,010,000, which
amount to be issued shall be as set forth in any written order of the Company
for the authentication and delivery of Series B Debentures pursuant to the
Indenture. The Series B Debentures shall be issuable in denominations of $1,000
Original Principal Amount and integral multiples thereof.

                                       4

Section 2.2 Maturity.

      The Stated Maturity of the Series B Debentures will be February 15, 2040,
subject to change as provided in Section 2.12.

      Section 2.3 Form and Payment.

      Except as provided in Section 2.4, the Series B Debentures shall be issued
in fully registered definitive form without interest coupons. Principal of and
interest on the Series B Debentures issued in definitive form will be payable,
the transfer of such Series B Debentures will be registrable and such Series B
Debentures will be exchangeable for Series B Debentures bearing identical terms
and provisions at the office or agency of the Trustee; provided, however, that
payment of interest may be made at the option of the Company by check mailed to
the Holder at such address as shall appear in the Register or by wire transfer
in immediately available funds to the bank account number of the Holder
specified in writing by the Holder and entered in the Register by the Registrar.
Notwithstanding the foregoing, so long as the Holder of any Series B Debenture
is the Property Trustee, the payment of the principal of and interest (including
expenses and taxes of the Trust set forth in Section 3.1 hereof, if any) on such
Series B Debentures held by the Property Trustee will be made at such place and
to such account as may be designated in writing by the Property Trustee.

      Section 2.4 Global Series B Debenture.

      (a) The Depository Trust Company shall serve as the initial Depositary for
the Series B Debentures.

      (b) The Series B Debentures shall be issued initially in fully registered
form in the name of the Property Trustee, in its capacity as such. In connection
with an Early Termination Event,

      (i) the Series B Debentures in definitive form may be presented to the
Trustee by the Property Trustee for exchange for one or more Global Securities
(as defined in the Base Indenture) representing Series B Debentures in an
aggregate Original Principal Amount equal to the aggregate Original Principal
Amount of all outstanding Series B Debentures (each a "Global Series B
Debenture"), to be registered in the name of the Depositary, or its nominee, and
delivered by the Property Trustee to the Depositary for crediting to the
accounts of its participants pursuant to the instructions of the Administrative
Trustees. The Company upon any such presentation shall execute one or more
Global Series B Debentures in such aggregate Original Principal Amount and
deliver the same to the Trustee for authentication and delivery in accordance
with the Indenture. The Trustee, upon receipt of such Global Series B
Debentures, together with an Officers' Certificate requesting authentication,
will authenticate such Global Series B Debentures. Payments on the Series B
Debentures issued as Global Series B Debentures will be made to the Depositary;
and

      (ii) if any Trust Preferred Securities are held in non book-entry
definitive form, the Series B Debentures in certificated form may be presented
to the Trustee by the Property Trustee and any Trust Preferred Securities
Certificate which represents Trust Preferred Securities other

                                       5

than Trust Preferred Securities held by the Depositary or its nominee ("Non
Book-Entry Trust Preferred Securities") will be deemed to represent beneficial
interests in the Series B Debentures presented to the Trustee by the Property
Trustee having an aggregate Original Principal Amount equal to the aggregate
Initial Liquidation Amount of the Non Book-Entry Trust Preferred Securities
until such Trust Preferred Securities Certificates are presented to the Property
Trustee for transfer or reissuance, at which time such Trust Preferred
Securities Certificates will be cancelled and a Series B Debenture, registered
in the name of the Holder of the Trust Preferred Securities Certificate or the
transferee of the Holder of such Trust Preferred Securities Certificate, as the
case may be, with an aggregate Original Principal Amount equal to the aggregate
Initial Liquidation Amount of the Trust Preferred Securities Certificate
cancelled, will be executed by the Company and delivered to the Trustee for
authentication and delivery in accordance with the Indenture to such Holder. The
Trustee, upon receipt of such Series B Debenture together with an Officers'
Certificate requesting authentication, shall authenticate such Series B
Debenture. On issue of such Series B Debentures, Series B Debentures with an
equivalent aggregate Original Principal Amount that were presented by the
Property Trustee to the Trustee will be deemed to have been cancelled.

      (c) Unless and until it is exchanged for the Series B Debentures in
definitive form, a Global Series B Debenture may be transferred, in whole but
not in part, only by the Depository or the nominee of the Depository to another
nominee of the Depositary, or to a successor Depositary selected or approved by
the Company or to a nominee of such successor Depositary.

      (d) If after Global Series B Debentures are issued (a) at any time the
Depositary for Global Series B Debentures notifies the Company that it is
unwilling or unable to continue as Depositary for such Global Series B
Debentures or if at any time the Depositary for such Global Series B Debentures
shall no longer be a clearing agency registered or in good standing under the
Securities Exchange Act of 1934 or other applicable statute or regulation when
the Depository is required to be so registered to act as the Depository, and in
either case a successor Depositary for such Global Series B Debentures is not
appointed by the Company within 90 days after the Company receives such notice
or becomes aware of such condition, as the case may be, or (b) the Company
determines in its sole discretion that the Series B Debentures shall no longer
be represented by one or more Global Series B Debentures and delivers to the
Trustee an Officer's Certificate evidencing such determination, then the Company
will execute and the Trustee, upon receipt of an Officer's Certificate
evidencing such determination by the Company, will authenticate and deliver
Series B Debentures of like tenor in definitive registered form, in authorized
denominations, and in aggregate Original Principal Amount equal to the Original
Principal Amount of the Global Series B Debentures in exchange for such Global
Series B Debentures. Upon the exchange of Global Series B Debentures for such
Series B Debentures in definitive registered form without coupons, in authorized
denominations, the Global Series B Debentures shall be canceled by the Trustee.
Such Series B Debentures in definitive registered form issued in exchange for
Global Series B Debentures pursuant to this Section shall be registered in such
names and in such authorized denominations as the Depositary, pursuant to
instructions from its direct or indirect participants or otherwise, shall
instruct the Trustee. The Trustee shall deliver such Series B Debentures to the
Persons in whose names such Series B Debentures are so registered.

                                       6

Section 2.5 Interest.

      (a) Each Series B Debenture will bear interest and, following the
Remarketing Settlement Date, interest or Accreted Interest, as applicable, all
as provided in the form of Series B Debentures set forth in Section 4.1 hereof.

      (b) The Company shall have the right to defer the payment of cash interest
on the Series B Debentures, as provided in Section 4.01 of the Base Indenture,
for one or more Deferral Periods of not longer than five years each. The Company
shall give the Trustee notice of its election to begin any such Deferral Period
at least five Business Days prior to the earlier of (i) the next succeeding date
on which Distributions on the Trust Preferred Securities would be payable but
for such deferral, and (ii) the date on which the Property Trustee is required
to give notice to holders of the Trust Preferred Securities of the Record Date
or the date such Distributions are payable, but in any event not less than five
Business Days prior to such Record Date, provided, however, that in no event
shall such notice of election be sent more than fifteen Business Days prior to
the date on which payments of all amounts then due in respect of the Trust
Preferred Securities are scheduled to occur.

      (c) The Series B Debentures are not entitled to any sinking fund payments.

      Section 2.6 Redemption of the Series B Debentures.

      (a) The Series B Debentures shall not be subject to the right of
redemption specified in Section 3.01 of the Base Indenture.

      (b) If in connection with the Remarketing the Series B Debentures become
redeemable at the option of the Company, any such redemption shall be effected
in accordance with Article III of the Base Indenture.

      Section 2.7 Put Right of Holders.

      If a there has not been a Successful Remarketing prior to February 15,
2009, each Holder of Series B Debentures will have the right to require the
Company to purchase all or a portion of its Series B Debentures on such date as
described below. Such right will be exercisable only upon delivery of notice to
the Trustee (i) for as long as the Series B Debentures are held by the Property
Trustee, on or prior to 11:00 A.M., New York City time, on the Business Day
immediately prior to February 15, 2009, or (ii) in all other cases, on or prior
to 11:00 A.M., New York City time on the second Business Day prior to February
15, 2009. The Company shall purchase such Series B Debentures at a Repayment
Price consisting of cash in an amount equal to 100% of the Accreted Principal
Amount thereof as of such date, plus a junior subordinated note of the Company
(which shall be subordinated and rank junior in right of payment to all of the
Company's existing and future Senior Indebtedness), bearing interest at the rate
of 4.91% per annum, in the amount of the accrued and unpaid interest (including
Additional Interest), if any, to, but excluding such date and payable on August
15, 2010 or, if February 15, 2009 is during a Deferral Period, the fifth
anniversary of the first day of such Deferral Period. Settlement of such
purchase shall be effected on February 15, 2009. Subject to the foregoing, any
such purchase by the Company shall be effected in accordance with Article III of
the Base Indenture.

                                       7

Section 2.8 Restrictions on Certain Payments, Including on Deferral of
Interest.

      If there shall have occurred and be continuing any event that, with the
giving of notice or the lapse of time, or both, would be an Event of Default
with respect to the Series B Debentures of which the Company shall have actual
knowledge and which the Company shall not have taken reasonable steps to cure;
the Series B Debentures shall be held by the Trust and the Company shall be in
default with respect to its payment of any obligations under the Guarantee; or
the Company shall have given notice of its election to begin a Deferral Period
with respect to the Series B Debentures as provided herein and shall not have
rescinded such notice, and such Deferral Period, or any extension thereof, shall
be continuing, then the Company covenants and agrees with the Holders that it
shall not:

      (a) declare or pay any dividends or distributions on, or redeem, purchase,
acquire or make a liquidation payment with respect to, any shares of capital
stock of the Company other than

      (i) any repurchase, redemption or other acquisition of shares of capital
stock of the Company in connection with (x) any employment contract, benefit
plan or other similar arrangement with or for the benefit of any one or more
employees, officers, directors, consultants or independent contractors, (y) a
dividend reinvestment or stockholder purchase plan, or (z) the issuance of
capital stock of the Company, or securities convertible into or exercisable for
such capital stock, as consideration in an acquisition transaction entered into
prior to the applicable Event of Default, Default or Deferral Period, as the
case may be;

      (ii) any exchange, redemption or conversion of any class or series of
capital stock of the Company, or the capital stock of one of the Company's
subsidiaries, for any other class or series of capital stock of the Company, or
of any class or series of the Company's indebtedness for any class or series of
capital stock of the Company;

      (iii) any purchase of, or payment of cash in lieu of, fractional interests
in shares of capital stock of the Company pursuant to the conversion or exchange
provisions of such capital stock or the securities being converted or exchanged;

      (iv) any declaration of a dividend in connection with any rights plan, or
the issuance of rights, stock or other property under any rights plan, or the
redemption or repurchase of rights pursuant thereto;

      (v) payments by the Company under any Guarantee related to the Trust
Preferred Securities; or

      (vi) any dividend in the form of stock, warrants, options or other rights
where the dividend stock or stock issuable upon exercise of such warrants,
options or other rights is the same stock as that on which the dividend is being
paid or ranks equal with or junior to such stock;

      (b) make any payment of principal of, or interest or premium, if any, on,
or repay, repurchase or redeem any debt securities issued by the Company that
rank equal with or junior to the Series B Debentures; or

                                       8

(c) make any payment under any guarantee that ranks equally with or junior
to the Guarantee related to the Trust Preferred Securities.

      Section 2.9 Notice of Defaults; Amount Payable upon Acceleration.

      (a) The Trustee shall provide to the Holders of the Trust Preferred
Securities such notices as it shall from time to time provide under Section 6.01
of the Base Indenture. In addition, the Trustee shall provide to the Holders of
the Trust Preferred Securities notice of any Event of Default or event which,
with the giving of notice or lapse of time, or both, would become an Event of
Default with respect to the Series B Debentures within 30 days after such Event
of Default or other event becomes known to the Trustee.

      (b) Upon declaration of acceleration of the Maturity of the Series B
Debentures pursuant to Section 6.01 of the Base Indenture, the Accreted
Principal Amount of and all accrued but unpaid interest on all Series B
Debentures shall become due and payable immediately.

      Section 2.10 CUSIP Numbers.

      The Company may from time to time obtain CUSIP numbers for the Series B
Debentures and, if so, the Trustee shall use CUSIP numbers in notices as a
convenience to Holders; provided that any such notice may state that no
representation is made as to the correctness of such numbers either as printed
on the Series B Debentures or as contained in any notice and that reliance may
be placed only the other identification numbers printed on the Series B
Debentures, and no action shall be affected by any defect in or omission of such
numbers. The Company shall promptly notify the Trustee of any change in the
CUSIP numbers.

      Section 2.11 Security Registrar and Paying Agent.

      The Company initially appoints the Trustee as the Security Registrar and
Paying Agent for the Series B Debentures.

      Section 2.12 Company Elections in Connection with Remarketing.

      In connection with Remarketings, the Company shall have the right
hereunder to change certain terms of the Series B Debentures as provided below
in this Section 2.12. By not later than the 25th Business Day prior to each
Remarketing Date, the Company will specify the following information or
elections in a notice to the Remarketing Agent, the Property Trustee, the
Trustee and the Stock Purchase Contract Agent (paragraph (a) through (e)
applying only if the Remarketing is Successful and paragraph (f) applying only
if the related Remarketing is the Final Failed Remarketing):

      (a) whether from and after the Remarketing Settlement Date the Series B
Debentures will pay interest in cash (it being understood and agreed that,
unless the Company affirmatively elects to cause the Series B Debentures to pay
interest in cash from and after the Remarketing Settlement Date, interest will
not be paid in cash but, instead, will accrete as provided in the Series B
Debentures);

                                       9

(b) whether the Stated Maturity of the Series B Debentures will remain at
February 15, 2040 or will be changed to an earlier date (specifying such date if
applicable); provided, however, that the Stated Maturity of the Series B
Debentures may not be changed to a date earlier than the second anniversary of
the Stock Purchase Date or, if the Remarketing Settlement Date occurs during a
Deferral Period, the fifth anniversary of the first day of such Deferral Period;

      (c) whether the Series B Debentures will be redeemable at the Company's
option on a day prior to the Stated Maturity of the Series B Debentures and, if
so, the date on and after which the Series B Debentures may be so redeemed;
provided, however, that an early redemption date may not be a date earlier than
the second anniversary of the Stock Purchase Date or, if the Remarketing
Settlement Date occurs during a Deferral Period, the fifth anniversary of the
first day of such Deferral Period;

      (d) whether the Company elects, in connection with the Remarketing, to add
any additional financial covenants to the Indenture, including the form of
supplemental indenture proposed to be entered into in order to give effect to
any such additional financial covenants;

      (e) whether in connection with such Remarketing the Company is exercising
its right under Section 6.2 of this Second Supplemental Indenture to cause the
subordination provisions in the Indenture applicable to the Series B Debentures
to no longer be of force and effect from and after the then current Remarketing
Settlement Date; and if so, whether it also elects that the Series B Debentures
shall no longer be subject to the interest deferral provisions of Section 4.01
of the Base Indenture; and

      (f) if the related Remarketing is the Final Failed Remarketing:

      (i) whether the Stated Maturity of the Series B Debentures will remain at
February 15, 2040 or will be changed to an earlier date (specifying such date if
applicable); and

      (ii) whether the Series B Debentures will be redeemable at the Company's
option on a date prior to the Stated Maturity of the Series B Debentures and, if
so, the date on and after which the Series B Debentures may be so redeemed;

provided, however, any changed Stated Maturity of the Series B Debentures
determined pursuant to clause (i) or early redemption date determined pursuant
to clause (ii) may not be a date earlier than the second anniversary of the
Stock Purchase Date or, if February 15, 2009 occurs during a Deferral Period,
the fifth anniversary of the first day of such Deferral Period.

      Prior to an Early Termination Event, any such elections made by the
Company as Sponsor pursuant to the Trust Agreement shall, upon successful
completion of a Remarketing, automatically apply and come into effect in respect
of the Series B Debentures. In the event of an Early Termination Event, the
provisions of Article X of the Trust Agreement shall be deemed thereafter to
apply, mutatis mutandis, to any Remarketing of the Series B Debentures, and the
Company and the Trustee shall promptly enter into a supplemental indenture, in
form reasonably satisfactory to the Trustee, making provision for remarketing
and reset mechanics, including notices in respect thereof, on the basis set
forth in such Article X.

                                       10

ARTICLE III

                                    EXPENSES

      Section 3.1 Expenses.

      In connection with the offering, sale and issuance of the Series B
Debentures to the Property Trustee and in connection with the sale of the Trust
Preferred Securities by the Trust, the Company, in its capacity as borrower with
respect to the Series B Debentures, shall:

      (a) pay all costs and expenses relating to the offering, sale and issuance
of the Series B Debentures, including commissions to the underwriters payable
pursuant to the Underwriting Agreement and compensation, fees and expenses
(including reasonable counsel fees and expenses) of the Trustee under the
Indenture in accordance with the provisions of the Indenture; and

      (b) be responsible for and shall pay all debts and obligations and all
costs and expenses of the Trust (including, but not limited to, costs and
expenses relating to the organization, maintenance and dissolution of the
Trust), the offering, sale and issuance of the Trust Preferred Securities
(including commissions to the underwriters in connection therewith), the fees
and expenses (including reasonable counsel fees and expenses) of the Property
Trustee, the Delaware Trustee and the Administrative Trustees, the costs and
expenses relating to the operation of the Trust, including, without limitation,
costs and expenses of accountants, attorneys, statistical or bookkeeping
services, expenses for printing and engraving and computing or accounting
equipment, paying agent(s), registrar(s), transfer agent(s), duplicating, travel
and telephone and other telecommunications expenses and costs and expenses
incurred in connection with the acquisition, financing, and disposition of Trust
assets and the enforcement by the Property Trustee of the rights of the Holders
of the Series B Debentures.

      The Company's obligations under this Section 3.1 shall be for the benefit
of, and shall be enforceable by, any person to whom such debts, obligations and
costs are owed (a "Creditor") whether or not such Creditor has received notice
hereof. Any such Creditor may enforce the Company's obligations under this
Section 3.1 directly against the Company and the Company irrevocably waives any
right or remedy to require that any such Creditor take any action against the
Trust or any other Person before proceeding against the Company. The Company
agrees to execute such additional agreements as may be necessary or desirable in
order to give full effect to the provisions of this Section 3.1.

                                   ARTICLE IV

                           FORM OF SERIES B DEBENTURES

      Section 4.1 Form of Series B Debentures.

      The Series B Debentures and the Trustee's Certificate of Authentication to
be endorsed thereon are to be substantially in the following forms:

                                       11

[IF THE SERIES B DEBENTURE IS TO BE A GLOBAL SERIES B DEBENTURE,
      INSERT - This Series B Debenture is a Global Series B Debenture within the
      meaning of the Indenture (as defined on the reverse hereof) and is
      registered in the name of the Depositary or a nominee of the Depositary.
      This Series B Debenture is exchangeable for Series B Debentures registered
      in the name of a person other than the Depositary or its nominee only in
      the limited circumstances described in the Indenture, and no transfer of
      this Series B Debenture (other than a transfer of this Series B Debenture
      as a whole by the Depositary to a nominee of the Depositary or by a
      nominee of the Depositary to the Depositary or another nominee of the
      Depositary) may be registered except in limited circumstances.

            Unless this Series B Debenture is presented by an authorized
      representative of The Depository Trust Company (55 Water Street, New York,
      New York) to the issuer or its agent for registration of transfer,
      exchange or payment, and any Series B Debenture issued is registered in
      the name of Cede & Co. or such other name as requested by an authorized
      representative of The Depository Trust Company and any payment hereon is
      made to Cede & Co., ANY TRANSFER, PLEDGE OR OTHER USE HEREOF FOR VALUE OR
      OTHERWISE BY A PERSON IS WRONGFUL since the registered owner hereof, Cede
      & Co., has an interest herein.]

                                       12

THE SERIES B DEBENTURES ARE THE UNSECURED AND UNSUBORDINATED OBLIGATIONS OF
METLIFE, INC. AND ARE NOT DEPOSITS, SAVINGS ACCOUNTS OR OTHER OBLIGATIONS OF ANY
BANK OR SAVINGS ASSOCIATION. THE SERIES B DEBENTURES ARE NOT INSURED BY THE
FEDERAL DEPOSIT INSURANCE CORPORATION, THE BANK INSURANCE FUND OR ANY OTHER
GOVERNMENT AGENCY OR INSURER.

                                       13

No. ____________________                        Original Principal Amount: $____
Issue Date: June 21, 2005                       CUSIP No.: _____________________
                                                ISIN: __________________________

                                  METLIFE, INC.

          4.91% JUNIOR SUBORDINATED DEBT SECURITIES, SERIES B, DUE 2040

      METLIFE, INC., a Delaware corporation (the "Company", which term includes
any successor corporation under the Indenture (as defined on the reverse
hereof)) for value received, hereby promises to pay to J.P. Morgan Trust
Company, National Association, AS PROPERTY TRUSTEE, the Accreted Principal
Amount (as defined in the Indenture) on February 15, 2040 or such earlier date
as may be specified by the Company following a Remarketing (as defined in the
Indenture) (such date is hereinafter referred to as the "Stated Maturity Date").
This Series B Debenture shall bear interest and Accreted Interest (as defined in
the Indenture) as specified on the reverse hereof and in the Indenture.

      This Series B Debenture shall not be entitled to any benefit under the
Indenture, be valid or become obligatory for any purpose, until the Certificate
of Authentication hereon shall have been executed by the Trustee.

      The provisions of this Series B Debenture are continued on the reverse
side hereof and such continued provisions shall for all purposes have the same
effect as though fully set forth at this place.

      IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the Company has caused this instrument to be executed.

Dated:

                                            METLIFE, INC.

                                            By:_________________________________
                                            Name:
                                            Title:

Attest

By: ________________________
    Name:
    Title:

                                       14

CERTIFICATE OF AUTHENTICATION

      This is one of the Series B Debentures referred to in the Indenture.

Dated:

                                            J.P. MORGAN TRUST COMPANY,
                                            NATIONAL ASSOCIATION,
                                            as Trustee

                                            By: ________________________________
                                                Authorized Signatory

                                       15

(FORM OF REVERSE OF SERIES B DEBENTURE)

      This Series B Debenture is one of a duly authorized series (the "Series B
Debentures") of the Securities (as defined in the Base Indenture) of the
Company, issued under and pursuant to a Indenture, dated as of June 21, 2005
(the "Base Indenture"), between the Company and J.P. Morgan Trust Company,
National Association (the "Trustee"), as amended and supplemented by the Second
Supplemental Indenture, dated as of June 21, 2005 between the Company and the
Trustee (the "Second Supplemental Indenture", and together with the Base
Indenture, the "Indenture"), to which Indenture and all indentures supplemental
thereto reference is hereby made for a description of the rights, limitations of
rights, obligations, duties and immunities thereunder of the Trustee, the
Company and the Holders of the Series B Debentures. By the terms of the
Indenture, the Securities are issuable in series that may vary as to amount,
date of maturity, rate of interest and in other respects as provided in the Base
Indenture.

      This Series B Debenture will bear interest from June 21, 2005 or from the
most recent date to which interest has been paid or duly provided for, at the
rate per annum equal to 4.91%, subject to reset as set forth below; in addition,
each installment of interest that would otherwise have been due and payable
during any Deferral Period shall bear Additional Interest to the extent
permitted by applicable law, which shall accrue at the rate per annum at which
interest accrues in respect of the principal of the Series B Debentures,
compounded quarterly prior to the Stock Purchase Date, and semi-annually
thereafter, from the applicable Interest Payment Date. Subject to the Company's
right to defer interest payments as provided in the Indenture, such interest
shall be payable, (1) prior to the Stock Purchase Date, quarterly in arrears on
February 15, May 15, August 15 and November 15 of each year (each, an "Interest
Payment Date"), commencing August 15, 2005, and (2) after the Stock Purchase
Date, if the Series B Debentures continue to bear cash interest, semi-annually
in arrears on the Interest Payment Dates following six months and twelve months
after the Stock Purchase Date and thereafter on the respective anniversaries
thereof. Interest on this Series B Debenture shall be calculated on the basis of
a 360-day year composed of twelve 30-day months. Interest payable on this Series
B Debenture on any Interest Payment Date will include interest for the
immediately preceding Interest Period. The interest so payable and punctually
paid or duly provided for on any Interest Payment Date will, as provided in the
Indenture, be paid to the Person in whose name this Series B Debenture (or one
or more Predecessor Series B Debenture) is registered at the close of business
on the regular record date for such interest payment, which shall be the first
day of the month in which such interest payment is due. Any interest which is
payable, but is not punctually paid or duly provided for, on any Interest
Payment Date shall forthwith cease to be payable to the registered Holder hereof
on the relevant regular record date by virtue of having been such Holder, and
may be paid to the Person in whose name this Series B Debenture (or one or More
Predecessor Series B Debenture) is registered at the close of business on a
special record date for the payment of such Defaulted Interest to be fixed by
the Company, notice whereof shall be given to the Holders of Series B Debenture
not less than 10 days prior to such special record date, or may be paid at any
time in any other lawful manner not inconsistent with the requirements of any
securities exchange on which the Series B Debentures may be listed, and upon
such notice as may be required by such exchange, all as more fully provided in
the Indenture.

      From and after the Stock Purchase Date, the Company will no longer be
required to pay cash interest unless the Company elects prior to the Remarketing
that following the Remarketing

                                       16

the Series B Debentures will bear cash interest pursuant to the Indenture. From
and after the Stock Purchase Date, the Original Principal Amount of this Series
B Debenture shall accrete daily at the Applicable Yield for each Interest
Period, which shall be 0% during any period for which the Company has elected
pursuant to the Indenture that the Series B Debentures will bear cash interest.

      If the Accreted Principal Amount hereof or any portion of such Accreted
Principal Amount is not paid when due (whether upon acceleration, upon the date
set for payment of the Redemption Price or upon the Stated Maturity of this
Series B Debenture) or if interest due hereon (or any portion of such interest),
is not paid when due, then in each such case the overdue amount shall, to the
extent permitted by law, bear interest at the rate then borne by this Series B
Debenture or, if any overdue amount exists on or after the Repurchase Settlement
Date, at the Applicable Yield or Reset Yield or Reset Rate, if any, of this
Series B Debenture for the applicable Interest Period, compounded at the end of
such Interest Period, which interest shall accrue from the date such overdue
amount was originally due to the date payment of such amount, including interest
thereon, has been made or duly provided for. All such interest shall be payable
as set forth in the Indenture.

      Subject to the terms and conditions of the Indenture, the Company will
make payments in respect of the Redemption Price and at the Stated Maturity of
the Series B Debentures to Holders who surrender Series B Debentures to a Paying
Agent to collect such payments in respect of the Series B Debentures; provided
that if any Redemption Date is an Interest Payment Date, accrued and unpaid
interest shall be paid to the Holder of record as of the applicable regular
record date. The Company will pay cash amounts in money of the United States
that at the time of payment is legal tender for payment of public and private
debts. However, the Company may make such cash payments by check payable in such
money; provided that payment by wire transfer of immediately available funds
will be required with respect to principal of and interest on all Global Series
B Debentures. If any Interest Payment Date (other than an Interest Payment Date
coinciding with the Stated Maturity or earlier Redemption Date) falls on a day
that is not a Business Day, such Interest Payment Date will be postponed to the
next succeeding Business Day and no interest on such payment will accrue for the
period from and after the Interest Payment Date to such next succeeding Business
Day, but if that Business Day is in the next succeeding calendar year, then that
payment shall be made on the immediately preceding Business Day, with the same
force and effect as if made on that date. If the Stated Maturity or Redemption
Date of this Series B Debenture would fall on a day that is not a Business Day,
the required payment of interest, if any, and principal will be made on the next
succeeding Business Day and no interest on such payment will accrue and no
principal will accrete for the period from and after the Stated Maturity or
Redemption Date to such next succeeding Business Day.

      No sinking fund is provided for the Series B Debentures. Prior to the
Remarketing Settlement Date, the Series B Debentures shall not be redeemable at
the option of the Company. If the Company so specifies in connection with the
Remarketing, the Series B Debentures shall be redeemable on and after the date
so specified by the Company for cash as a whole, or from time to time in part,
at the option of the Company at a Redemption Price equal to 100% of the Accreted
Principal Amount of the Series B Debentures, plus accrued and unpaid interest
to, but excluding, the Redemption Date.

                                       17

If the Company redeems less than all of the outstanding Series B
Debentures, the Trustee will select the Series B Debentures to be redeemed (i)
by lot; (ii) pro rata; or (iii) by another method the Trustee considers fair and
appropriate. The Company may not redeem less than all of the outstanding Series
B Debentures if the Accreted Principal Amount has been accelerated and such
acceleration has not been rescinded.

      Notice of redemption will be mailed at least 30 days but not more than 60
days before the Redemption Date to each Holder of Series B Debentures to be
redeemed at the Holder's registered address. If money sufficient to pay the
Redemption Price of all Series B Debentures (or portions thereof) to be redeemed
on the Redemption Date is deposited with the Paying Agent prior to or on the
Redemption Date, immediately after such Redemption Date interest shall cease to
accrue and principal will cease to accrete on such Series B Debentures or
portions thereof. Series B Debentures in denominations larger than $1,000
Original Principal Amount may be redeemed in part but only in integral multiples
of $1,000.

      If a Remarketing occurs, then the Series B Debentures shall be remarketed
and the Reset Yield or Reset Rate, as the case may be, shall be established as
set forth in the Indenture.

      If there has not been a Successful Remarketing prior to February 15, 2009,
each Holder of Series B Debentures will have the right to require the Company to
purchase all or a portion of its Series B Debentures on such date, as set forth
in the Indenture. The Company shall purchase such Series B Debentures at a
Repayment Price consisting of cash in an amount equal to 100% of the Accreted
Principal Amount thereof as of such date, plus a note of the Company, bearing
interest at the rate of 4.91% per annum, in the amount of the accrued and unpaid
interest (including Additional Interest), if any, to, but excluding such date
and payable on August 15, 2010 or, if February 15, 2009 is during a Deferral
Period, the fifth anniversary of the first day of such Deferral Period.

      In case an Event of Default, as defined in the Indenture, shall have
occurred and be continuing, the Accreted Principal Amount of all of the Series B
Debentures may be declared, and upon such declaration shall become, due and
payable, in the manner, with the effect and subject to the conditions provided
in the Indenture.

      The Indenture contains provisions permitting the Company and the Trustee,
with the consent of the Holders of not less than a majority in aggregate
principal amount of the Series B Debentures at the time Outstanding (as defined
in the Indenture) to execute supplemental indentures for the purpose of, among
other things, adding any provisions to or changing in any manner or eliminating
any of the provisions of the Indenture or of any supplemental indenture or of
modifying in any manner the rights of the Holders of the Series B Debentures;
provided, however, that, among other things, no such supplemental indenture
shall (i) reduce the principal amount thereof, or reduce the rate or extend the
time of payment of interest thereon without the consent of the Holder of each
Series B Debenture so affected, or (ii) reduce the aforesaid percentage of
Series B Debentures, the Holders of which are required to consent to any such
supplemental indenture, without the consent of the Holders of each Series B
Debenture then Outstanding and affected thereby. The Indenture also contains
provisions permitting the Holders of a majority in aggregate principal amount of
the Series B Debentures at the time Outstanding affected thereby, on behalf of
all of the Holders of the Series B Debentures, to waive a default or

                                       18

Event of Default with respect to the Series B Debentures, and its consequences,
except a default or Event of Default in the payment of the principal of or
interest on any of the Series B Debentures or a default in respect of a
provision that under Article IX of the Base Indenture cannot be amended without
the consent of each holder affected thereby. Any such consent or waiver by the
registered Holder of this Series B Debenture (unless revoked as provided in the
Indenture) shall be conclusive and binding upon such Holder and upon all future
Holders and owners of this Series B Debenture and of any Series B Debenture
issued in exchange for or in place hereof (whether by registration of transfer
or otherwise) irrespective of whether or not any notation of such consent or
waiver is made upon this Series B Debenture.

      No reference herein to the Indenture and no provision of this Series B
Debenture or of the Indenture shall alter or impair the obligation of the
Company, which is absolute and unconditional, to pay the principal of and
interest on this Series B Debenture at the time and place and at the rate and in
the money herein prescribed.

      As provided in the Indenture and subject to certain limitations therein
set forth, this Series B Debenture is transferable by the registered Holder
hereof on the Security Register of the Company, upon surrender of this Series B
Debenture for registration of transfer at the office or agency of the Trustee in
The City of New York and State of New York accompanied by a written instrument
or instruments of transfer in form satisfactory to the Company or the Trustee
duly executed by the registered Holder hereof or his attorney duly authorized in
writing, and thereupon one or more new Series B Debentures of authorized
denominations and for the same aggregate principal amount will be issued to the
designated transferee or transferees. No service charge will be made for any
such transfer, but the Company may require payment of a sum sufficient to cover
any tax, assessment or other governmental charge payable in relation thereto.

      Prior to due presentment for registration of transfer of this Series B
Debenture, the Company, the Trustee, any paying agent and the Security Registrar
may deem and treat the registered holder hereof as the absolute owner hereof
(whether or not this Series B Debenture shall be overdue and notwithstanding any
notice of ownership or writing hereon made by anyone other than the Security
Registrar) for the purpose of receiving payment of or on account of the
principal hereof and interest due hereon and for all other purposes, and neither
the Company nor the Trustee nor any paying agent nor any Security Registrar
shall be affected by any notice to the contrary.

      No recourse shall be had for the payment of the principal of or the
interest on this Series B Debenture, or for any claim based hereon, or otherwise
in respect hereof, or based on or in respect of the Indenture, against any
incorporator, shareholder, officer or director, past, present or future, as
such, of the Company or of any predecessor or successor corporation, whether by
virtue of any constitution, statute or rule of law, or by the enforcement of any
assessment or penalty or otherwise, all such liability being, by the acceptance
hereof and as part of the consideration for the issuance hereof, expressly
waived and released.

      The Indenture imposes certain limitations on the ability of the Company
to, among other things, merge or consolidate with any other Person or sell,
assign, transfer, lease or convey all or substantially all of its properties and
assets. All such covenants and limitations are subject to a

                                       19

number of important qualifications and exceptions. The Company must report
periodically to the Trustee on compliance with the covenants in the Indenture.

      The Series B Debentures are issuable only in registered form without
coupons, in denominations of $1,000 Original Principal Amount and any integral
multiple thereof. As provided in the Indenture and subject to certain
limitations therein set forth, Series B Debentures so issued are exchangeable
for a like aggregate principal amount of Series B Debentures of a different
authorized denomination, as requested by the Holder surrendering the same.

      All terms used in this Series B Debenture that are defined in the
Indenture shall have the meanings assigned to them in the Indenture.

      This Series B Debenture shall be governed by and construed in accordance
with the laws of the State of New York, without regard to its principles of
conflicts of laws.

                                       20

ASSIGNMENT

FOR VALUE RECEIVED, the undersigned assigns and transfers this Series B
Debenture to:

________________________________________________________________________________

________________________________________________________________________________

________________________________________________________________________________

        (Insert assignee's social security or tax identification number)

________________________________________________________________________________

________________________________________________________________________________

________________________________________________________________________________

                    (Insert address and zip code of assignee)

agent to transfer this Series B Debenture on the books of the Security
Registrar. The agent may substitute another to act for him or her.

Dated:                                                 Signature:

                              Signature Guarantee:

      (Sign exactly as your name appears on the other side of this Series B
Debenture)

      Signatures must be guaranteed by an "eligible guarantor institution"
meeting the requirements of the Registrar, which requirements include membership
or participation in the Security Transfer Agent Medallion Program ("STAMP") or
such other "signature guarantee program" as may be determined by the Registrar
in addition to, or in substitution for, STAMP, all in accordance with the
Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended.

                                       21

ARTICLE V

                      ORIGINAL ISSUE OF SERIES B DEBENTURES

      Section 5.1 Original Issue of Series B Debentures.

      Series B Debentures in the aggregate principal amount of $1,067,010,000
may, upon execution of this Second Supplemental Indenture, be executed by the
Company and delivered to the Trustee for authentication, and the Trustee shall
thereupon authenticate and deliver said Series B Debentures in accordance with a
Company Order. The Issue Date of the Series B Debentures shall be deemed to be
June 21, 2005.

                                   ARTICLE VI

                      EVENTS OF DEFAULT, WAIVER AND NOTICE

      Section 6.1 Event of Default

      (a) An "Event of Default," when used in the Indenture with respect to the
Series B Debentures, means any one or more of the following events that shall
have occurred and be continuing:

      (i) the Company defaults in the payment of any installment of interest
(including Additional Interest) upon the Series B Debentures, as and when the
same shall become due and payable, and continuance of such default for a period
of 20 consecutive quarters; provided, however, that during any Deferral Period
for the Series B Debentures, failure to pay interest on the Series B Debentures
shall not constitute a default in the payment of interest for this purpose;

      (ii) the Company defaults in the payment of the principal of the Series B
Debentures as and when the same shall become due and payable whether at
maturity, upon redemption, because of acceleration or otherwise, or in any
payment required by any sinking or analogous fund establishment with respect to
the Series B Debentures; or

      (iii) the entry by a court of competent jurisdiction of:

            (A) a decree or order for relief in respect of the Company in an
      involuntary proceeding under any applicable Bankruptcy Law and such decree
      or order shall remain unstayed and in effect for a period of 60
      consecutive days;

            (B) a decree or order adjudging the Company to be insolvent, or
      approving a petition seeking reorganization, arrangement, adjustment or
      composition of the Company and such decree or order shall remain unstayed
      and in effect for a period of 60 consecutive days; or

            (C) a final and non-appealable order appointing a Custodian (as
      defined in the Base Indenture) of the Company or MetLife Bank, National
      Association ("MetLife Bank") or of any substantial part of the property of
      the Company or MetLife Bank, or ordering the winding up or liquidation of
      the affairs of the Company or of MetLife Bank;

                                       22

(iv) the Company pursuant to or within the meaning of any Bankruptcy Law;
(A) commences a voluntary case or proceeding; (B) consents to the entry of an
order for relief against it in an involuntary case or proceeding; (C) files a
petition or answer or consent seeking reorganization or relief or consents to
such filing or to the appointment of or taking possession by a Custodian of it
or for all or substantially all of its property, and such Custodian is not
discharged within 60 days; (D) makes a general assignment for the benefit of its
creditors; or (E) admits in writing its inability to pay its debts generally as
they become due.

      (b) If an Event of Default (other than an Event of Default specified in
Sections 6.1(a)(iii) and 6.1(a)(iv) hereof) with respect to the Series B
Debentures at the time Outstanding occurs and is continuing, either the Trustee
or the Holders of no less than 25% in aggregate principal amount of the Series B
Debentures then Outstanding, by notice in writing to the Company (and to the
Trustee if by such Holders), may declare the Accreted Principal Amount of and
all accrued but unpaid interest on all the Series B Debentures to be due and
payable immediately, and upon such declaration the same shall become and shall
be immediately due and payable.

      (c) At any time after the principal of the Series B Debentures shall have
been so declared due and payable, and before any judgment or decree for the
payment of the moneys due shall have been obtained or entered as hereinafter
provided, the Holders of a majority in aggregate principal amount of the Series
B Debentures then Outstanding hereunder, by written notice to the Company and
the Trustee, may rescind and annul such declaration and its consequences if: (i)
the Company has paid or deposited with the Trustee a sum sufficient to pay all
matured installments of interest upon all the Series B Debentures and the
principal of, and premium, if any, on any and all Series B Debentures that shall
have become due otherwise than by acceleration (with interest upon such
principal and premium, if any, and, to the extent that such payment is
enforceable under applicable law, upon overdue installments of interest, at
4.91% per annum and the amount payable to the Trustee under Section 7.06 of the
Base Indenture, and (ii) any and all Events of Default under the Indenture,
other than the nonpayment of Accreted Principal Amount on the Series B
Debentures that shall not have become due by their terms, shall have been
remedied or waived as provided in Section 6.08 of the Base Indenture.

      No such rescission and annulment shall extend to or shall affect any
subsequent default or impair any right consequent thereon.

      (d) The Company shall, within 120 days of the end of each fiscal year of
the Company ending after the date hereof, furnish to the Trustee an Officers'
Certificate stating, to the knowledge of the certifying Officer, as to whether
any Event of Default as defined in the Indenture has occurred and is continuing.

      (e) If the Series B Debentures are held by the Trust or a trustee of the
Trust, notwithstanding Section 6.04 of the Base Indenture or any other provision
in this Indenture, any registered Holder of the Trust Preferred Securities shall
have the right, upon the occurrence of an Event of Default described in Sections
6.1(a)(i) and 6.1(a)(ii) hereof, to institute a suit directly, or to cause the
Property Trustee to institute a suit against the Company for enforcement of
payment to such Holder of the interest, subject to Section 4.01 of the Base
Indenture, on the

                                       23

Series B Debentures; and such right shall not be impaired without the consent of
such Holder, subject, however, to the provisions of Article XV of the Base
Indenture and Article VII of this Second Supplemental Indenture.

                                  ARTICLE VII

                                  SUBORDINATION

      Section 7.1 Subordination.

      The subordination provisions contained in Article XV of the Base Indenture
shall apply to the Series B Debentures. For purposes of the Series B Debentures
and application of Article XV of the Base Indenture to the Series B Debentures,
"Senior Indebtedness" means any obligation of the Company to its creditors,
whether outstanding at the date of the execution of this Supplemental Indenture
or subsequently incurred, including the items enumerated in clauses(i)-(vii) of
the definition of "Senior Indebtedness" in Section 1.01 of the Base Indenture,
other than any obligation as to which, in the instrument creating or evidencing
the obligation or pursuant to which the obligation is outstanding, it is
provided that such obligation is not senior in right of payment to the Series B
Debentures, but does not include trade accounts payable or any junior
subordinated debt securities underlying Tier 1 eligible trust preferred
securities issued in the future or other deeply subordinated capital instruments
that the Federal Reserve Board may authorize in the future for inclusion as Tier
1 capital. The Series B Debentures shall rank equal with, and shall not be
senior in right of payment to, the Company's 4.91% Junior Subordinated
Securities, Series B, due 2040 to be issued pursuant to the Base Indenture as
supplemented by the Second Supplemental Indenture thereto, to be dated the date
hereof, and the Preferred Securities Guarantee Agreements to be dated the date
hereof.

      Section 7.2 Company Election to End Subordination.

      The Company may elect, at any time effective on or after the Stock
Purchase Date, including in connection with a Remarketing, that its obligations
under the Series B Debentures shall be senior obligations instead of
subordinated obligations, in which case the provisions this Article VII and, if
the Company so elects, Section 4.01 of the Base Indenture, shall thereafter no
longer apply to the Series B Debentures. The Company shall give the Trustee
notice of any such election not later than the effective time, and shall
promptly issue a press release through Bloomberg Business News or other
reasonable means of distribution.

      Section 7.3 Compliance with Federal Reserve Board Rules.

      The Company shall not incur any additional indebtedness for borrowed money
that ranks pari passu with or junior to the Series B Debentures (if then subject
to this Article VII), except in compliance with applicable regulation and
guidelines of the Federal Reserve Board.

                                       24

ARTICLE VIII

                                  MISCELLANEOUS

      Section 8.1 Effectiveness.

      This Second Supplemental Indenture will become effective upon its
execution and delivery.

      Section 8.2 Further Assurances.

      The Company will, at its own cost and expense, execute and deliver any
documents or agreements, and take any other actions, which the Trustee or its
counsel may from time to time request in order to assure the Trustee of the
benefits of the rights granted to the Trustee under the Indenture.

      Section 8.3 Effect of Recitals.

      The recitals in this Second Supplemental Indenture are made by the Company
and not by the Trustee, and the Trustee shall not be responsible for the
validity or sufficiency hereof.

      Section 8.4 Ratification of Base Indenture.

      The Base Indenture as supplemented by this Second Supplemental Indenture,
is in all respects ratified and confirmed, and the Base Indenture and this
Second Supplemental Indenture shall be deemed part of the Indenture in the
manner and to the extent herein and therein provided.

      Section 8.5 Governing Law.

      THE INDENTURE AND EACH SERIES B DEBENTURE SHALL BE DEEMED TO BE A CONTRACT
MADE UNDER THE INTERNAL LAWS OF THE STATE OF NEW YORK, AND FOR ALL PURPOSES
SHALL BE CONSTRUED IN ACCORDANCE WITH THE LAWS OF SAID STATE.

      Section 8.6 Counterparts.

      This Second Supplemental Indenture may be executed in any number of
counterparts, each of which shall be an original, but such separate counterparts
shall together constitute but one and the same instrument.

                                       25

IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto have caused this Second
Supplemental Indenture to be duly executed by their respective officers
thereunto duly authorized, on the date or dates indicated in the acknowledgments
and as of the day and year first above written.

                                            METLIFE, INC.

                                            By: /s/ Anthony J. Williamson
                                                --------------------------------
                                                Name:
                                                Title:

J.P. MORGAN TRUST COMPANY,
                                            NATIONAL ASSOCIATION,
                                            as Trustee

                                            By: /s/ Paul J. Schmalzel
                                                --------------------------------
                                               Name:  Paul J. Schmalzel
                                               Title: Authorized Signatory

26

</EX-4.43>

<EX-4.61>
 9
 y87657exv4w61.txt
 EX-4.61

EXHIBIT 4.61

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

                    AMENDED AND RESTATED DECLARATION OF TRUST

                                       OF

                            METLIFE CAPITAL TRUST III

                                      among

                                 METLIFE, INC.,

                                   as Sponsor,

                J.P. MORGAN TRUST COMPANY, NATIONAL ASSOCIATION,

                              as Property Trustee,

                      CHASE BANK USA, NATIONAL ASSOCIATION,

                              as Delaware Trustee,

                 the Administrative Trustees (as named herein),

                 and the several Holders of the Trust Securities

                            Dated as of June 21, 2005

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

EXECUTION COPY

                                  METLIFE, INC.

   Reconciliation and tie between Trust Indenture Act of 1939 and Amended and
            Restated Declaration of Trust dated as of June 21, 2005

Note: This reconciliation and tie shall not, for any purpose be deemed to be
      part of the Amended and Restated Declaration of Trust.

                                       i

TABLE OF CONTENTS

PAGE
                                                                                                              
ARTICLE I    DEFINED TERMS

       Section 1.1.     Definitions....................................................................          2

ARTICLE II   CONTINUATION OF THE TRUST

       Section 2.1.     Name...........................................................................         13
       Section 2.2.     Office of the Delaware Trustee; Principal Place of Business....................         13
       Section 2.3.     Initial Contribution of Trust Property; Organizational Expenses................         13
       Section 2.4.     Issuance of the Trust Preferred Securities.....................................         13
       Section 2.5.     Issuance of the Common Securities; Subscription and Purchase Debentures........         14
       Section 2.6.     Trust Agreement................................................................         14
       Section 2.7.     Authorization to Enter into Certain Transactions...............................         14
       Section 2.8.     Assets of Trust................................................................         18
       Section 2.9.     Title to Trust Property........................................................         18

ARTICLE III  PAYMENT ACCOUNT

       Section 3.1.     Payment Account................................................................         19

ARTICLE IV   DISTRIBUTIONS; REDEMPTION

       Section 4.1.     Distributions..................................................................         19
       Section 4.2.     Redemption.....................................................................         21
       Section 4.3.     Subordination of Common Securities.............................................         23
       Section 4.4.     Payment Procedures.............................................................         23
       Section 4.5.     Tax Returns and Reports........................................................         24
       Section 4.6.     Payment of Expenses of the Trust...............................................         24
       Section 4.7.     Payments under Indenture or Pursuant to Direct Actions.........................         24

ARTICLE V    TRUST SECURITIES CERTIFICATES

       Section 5.1.     Initial Ownership..............................................................         24
       Section 5.2.     The Trust Securities Certificates..............................................         25
       Section 5.3.     Execution, Authentication and Delivery of Trust Securities Certificates........         25
       Section 5.4.     Registration of Transfer and Exchange of Trust Preferred Securities
                        Certificates...................................................................         25
       Section 5.5.     Mutilated, Destroyed, Lost or Stolen Trust Securities Certificates.............         26
       Section 5.6.     Persons Deemed Holders.........................................................         27
       Section 5.7.     Access to List of Holders' Names and Addresses.................................         27
       Section 5.8.     Maintenance of Office Agency...................................................         27
       Section 5.9.     Appointment of Paying Agent....................................................         27

ii

TABLE OF CONTENTS
                                   (continued)

PAGE
                                                                                                              
       Section 5.10.    Ownership of Common Securities by Sponsor......................................         28
       Section 5.11.    Book-Entry Trust Preferred Securities Certificates; Common Securities
                        Certificate....................................................................         28
       Section 5.12.    Notices to Clearing Agency.....................................................         29
       Section 5.13.    Definitive Trust Preferred Securities Certificates.............................         29
       Section 5.14.    Rights of Holders; Waivers of Past Defaults....................................         30
       Section 5.15.    CUSIP Numbers..................................................................         32
       Section 5.16.    Cancellation...................................................................         32

ARTICLE VI   ACTS OF HOLDERS; MEETINGS; VOTING

       Section 6.1.     Limitations on Voting Rights...................................................         33
       Section 6.2.     Notice of Meetings.............................................................         33
       Section 6.3.     Meetings of Holders of the Trust Preferred Securities..........................         34
       Section 6.4.     Voting Rights..................................................................         34
       Section 6.5.     Proxies........................................................................         34
       Section 6.6.     Holder Action by Written Consent...............................................         34
       Section 6.7.     Record Date for Voting and Other Purposes......................................         35
       Section 6.8.     Acts of Holders................................................................         35
       Section 6.9.     Inspection of Records..........................................................         36
       Section 6.10.    Action With Respect to the Debenture...........................................         36

ARTICLE VII  REPRESENTATIONS AND WARRANTIES

       Section 7.1.     Representations and Warranties of the Property Trustee and the Delaware
                        Trustee........................................................................         36
       Section 7.2.     Representations and Warranties of Sponsor......................................         37

ARTICLE VIII THE TRUSTEES

       Section 8.1.     Certain Duties and Responsibilities............................................         38
       Section 8.2.     Certain Notices................................................................         40
       Section 8.3.     Certain Rights of Property Trustee.............................................         41
       Section 8.4.     Not Responsible for Recitals or Issuance of Securities.........................         43
       Section 8.5.     May Hold Securities............................................................         43
       Section 8.6.     Compensation; Indemnity; Fees..................................................         43
       Section 8.7.     Corporate Property Trustee Required; Eligibility of Trustees and
                        Administrative Trustees........................................................         44
       Section 8.8.     Conflicting Interests..........................................................         45
       Section 8.9.     Co-Trustees and Separate Trustee...............................................         45
       Section 8.10.    Resignation and Removal; Appointment of Successor..............................         46
       Section 8.11.    Acceptance of Appointment by Successor.........................................         48
       Section 8.12.    Merger, Conversion, Consolidation or Succession to Business....................         48
       Section 8.13.    Preferential Collection of Claims Against Sponsor or Trust.....................         48

iii

TABLE OF CONTENTS
                                  (continued)

iv

TABLE OF CONTENTS
                                  (continued)

v

EXHIBITS:

         Exhibit A - Certificate of Amendment to Certificate of Trust

         Exhibit B - Form of Common Securities Certificate

         Exhibit C - Form of Trust Preferred Securities Certificate

                                       vi

AMENDED AND RESTATED DECLARATION OF TRUST (the "Trust Agreement"), dated
as of June 21, 2005 among (i) MetLife, Inc., a Delaware corporation (including
any successors or assigns, the "Sponsor"), (ii) J.P. Morgan Trust Company,
National Association, not in its individual capacity but solely as property
trustee (in such capacity, the "Property Trustee"), (iii) Chase Bank USA,
National Association, a national banking association, as Delaware trustee (in
such capacity, the "Delaware Trustee"), and (iv) Anthony J. Williamson, an
individual, Philip Salmon, an individual and Thomas Curran, an individual, each
of whose address is c/o MetLife, Inc., 27-01 Queens Plaza North, Long Island
City, New York 11101 (each, an "Administrative Trustee," and collectively, the
"Administrative Trustees") (the Property Trustee, the Delaware Trustee, and the
Administrative Trustees being referred to collectively as the "Trustees"), and
(v) the several Holders, as hereinafter defined.

                                   WITNESSETH

      WHEREAS, the Sponsor and certain of the Trustees have heretofore duly
declared and established a statutory trust (the "Trust") pursuant to the
Delaware Statutory Trust Act (as hereinafter defined) by entering into that
certain Declaration of Trust, dated as of May 17, 2001 (the "Original
Declaration of Trust"), and by the execution and filing with the Secretary of
State of the State of Delaware the Certificate of Trust, filed on May 17, 2001,
as amended, attached as Exhibit A hereto (the "Certificate of Trust"); and

      WHEREAS, certain of the Trustees of the Trust were removed and new
trustees were appointed pursuant to that certain Removal and Appointment of
Trustees of the Trust, dated as of January 16, 2004;

      WHEREAS, certain of the Trustees of the Trust were removed and appointed
pursuant to that certain Removal and Appointment of Trustees of the Trust, dated
as of June 15, 2005;

      WHEREAS, the parties hereto desire to amend and restate the Original
Declaration of Trust in its entirety as set forth herein to provide for, among
other things, (i) the issuance of the Common Securities by the Trust to the
Sponsor, (ii) the issuance of the Trust Preferred Securities by the Trust as a
component of Normal Common Equity Units and their issuance and sale pursuant to
the Underwriting Agreement, and (iii) the acquisition by the Trust from the
Sponsor of all of the right, title and interest in the Debentures;

      NOW THEREFORE, in consideration of the agreements and obligations set
forth herein and for other good and valuable consideration, the receipt and
sufficiency of which are hereby acknowledged, each party, for the benefit of the
other parties and for the benefit of the Holders, hereby amends and restates the
Original Declaration of Trust in its entirety and agrees as follows:

                                       1

ARTICLE I
                                  DEFINED TERMS

      Section 1.1 Definitions.

      For all purposes of this Trust Agreement, except as otherwise expressly
provided or unless the context otherwise requires:

      The terms defined in this Article have the meanings assigned to them in
this Article, and include the plural as well as the singular;

      All other terms used herein that are defined in the Trust Indenture Act,
either directly or by reference therein, have the meanings assigned to them
therein;

      The words "include," "includes" and "including" shall be deemed to be
followed by the phrase "without limitation";

      All accounting terms used but not defined herein have the meanings
assigned to them in accordance with United States generally accepted accounting
principles;

      Unless the context otherwise requires, any reference to an "Article," a
"Section" or an "Exhibit" refers to an Article, a Section or an Exhibit, as the
case may be, of or to this Trust Agreement; and

      The words "hereby," "herein," "hereof" and "hereunder" and other words of
similar import refer to this Trust Agreement as a whole and not to any
particular Article, Section or other subdivision.

      "Accreted Liquidation Amount" means per Trust Security (i) through the
Reset Date, $1,000 (which is also the Initial Liquidation Amount per Trust
Security) and (ii) thereafter, an amount equal to the Accreted Principal Amount
of a Like Amount of Debentures as determined pursuant to the Indenture (changing
as and when such Accreted Principal Amount shall change).

      "Accreted Principal Amount" has the meaning specified in the Supplemental
Indenture.

      "Act" has the meaning specified in Section 6.8.

      "Additional Amount" means, with respect to Trust Securities of a given
Initial Liquidation Amount and/or a given period, the amount of Additional
Interest (as defined in the Indenture) paid by the Sponsor on a Like Amount of
Debentures for such period.

      "Additional Interest" has the meaning specified in the Supplemental
Indenture.

      "Administrative Trustee" means each of the individuals identified as an
"Administrative Trustee" in the preamble to this Trust Agreement solely in such
individual's capacity as Administrative Trustee of the Trust and not in such
individual's individual capacity, or such Administrative Trustee's successor in
interest in such capacity, or any successor trustee appointed as herein
provided.

                                       2

"Affiliate" of any specified Person means any other Person directly or
indirectly controlling or controlled by or under direct or indirect common
control with such specified Person. For the purposes of this definition,
"control" when used with respect to any specified Person means the power to
direct the management and policies of such Person, directly or indirectly,
whether through the ownership of voting securities, by contract or otherwise;
and the terms "controlling" and "controlled" have meanings correlative to the
foregoing.

      "Agreement as to Expenses and Liabilities" means the Agreement as to
Expenses and Liabilities, dated as of June 21, 2005 between the Trust and the
Sponsor.

      "Authorized Officer" of any Person means any executive officer of such
Person or any Person authorized by or pursuant to a resolution of the Board of
Directors of such Person.

      "Bankruptcy Event" means, with respect to any Person:

            (a) the entry of a decree or order by a court having jurisdiction in
      the premises judging such Person a bankrupt or insolvent, or approving as
      properly filed a petition seeking reorganization, arrangement,
      adjudication or composition of or in respect of such Person under any
      applicable Federal or State bankruptcy, insolvency, reorganization or
      other similar law, or appointing a receiver, liquidator, assignee,
      trustee, sequestrator (or other similar official) of such Person or of any
      substantial part of its property or ordering the winding up or liquidation
      of its affairs, and the continuance of any such decree or order unstayed
      and in effect for a period of 60 consecutive days; or

            (b) the institution by such Person of proceedings to be adjudicated
      a bankrupt or insolvent, or the consent by it to the institution of
      bankruptcy or insolvency proceedings against it, or the filing by it of a
      petition or answer or consent seeking reorganization or relief under any
      applicable Federal or State bankruptcy, insolvency, reorganization or
      other similar law, or the consent by it to the filing of any such petition
      or to the appointment of a receiver, liquidator, assignee, trustee,
      sequestrator (or similar official) of such Person or of any substantial
      part of its property, or the making by it of an assignment for the benefit
      of creditors, or the admission by it in writing of its inability to pay
      its debts generally as they become due and its willingness to be
      adjudicated a bankrupt, or the taking of corporate action by such Person
      in furtherance of any such action.

      "Bankruptcy Laws" has the meaning specified in Section 12.9.

      "Base Indenture" means the Indenture, dated as of June 21, 2005, between
the Sponsor and the Debenture Trustee.

      "Board of Directors" of any Person means the board of directors (or
equivalent body) of such Person, or, in the case of a limited liability company
issuer of Debentures, the sole member, or a committee designated by the board of
directors (or equivalent body) of such Person (or any such committee), comprised
of one or more members of the board of directors (or equivalent body) of such
Person or officers of such Person, or both.

                                       3

"Book-Entry Trust Preferred Securities" means Trust Preferred Securities,
the ownership and transfers of which shall be made through book entries by a
Clearing Agency as described in Section 5.11.

      "Book-Entry Trust Preferred Securities Certificate" means a Trust
Preferred Securities Certificate evidencing ownership of Book-Entry Trust
Preferred Securities.

      "Business Day" means any day other than a Saturday, Sunday, or any other
day on which banking institutions and trust companies in New York City are
permitted or required by any applicable law to close.

      "Certificate of Trust" has the meaning specified in the recitals hereof,
as amended from time to time.

      "Certificate Depository Agreement" means the agreement among the Trust,
the Paying Agent and DTC, as the initial Clearing Agency, dated as of the
Closing Date.

      "Clearing Agency" means an organization registered as a "clearing agency"
pursuant to Section 17A of the Exchange Act. DTC will be the initial Clearing
Agency.

      "Clearing Agency Participant" means a broker, dealer, bank, other
financial institution or other Person for whom from time to time a Clearing
Agency effects book-entry transfers and pledges of securities deposited with the
Clearing Agency.

      "Closing Date" means the "Closing Date" under the Underwriting Agreement.

      "Code" means the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended from time to
time, or any successor legislation.

      "Commission" means the Securities and Exchange Commission, as from time to
time constituted, created under the Exchange Act or, if at any time after the
execution of this Trust Agreement such Commission is not existing and performing
the duties now assigned to it under the Trust Indenture Act, then the body
performing such duties at such time.

      "Common Equity Unit" has the meaning specified in the Stock Purchase
Contract Agreement.

      "Common Securities Certificate" means a certificate evidencing ownership
of Common Securities, substantially in the form attached as Exhibit B.

      "Common Security" means an undivided beneficial interest in the assets of
the Trust, having an Initial Liquidation Amount of $1,000 and having the rights
provided therefor in this Trust Agreement, including the right to receive
Distributions and a Liquidation Distribution as provided herein.

      "Common Stock" has the meaning specified in the Stock Purchase Contract
Agreement.

                                       4

"Corporate Trust Office" means (i) when used with respect to the Property
Trustee, the office of the Property Trustee at which, at any particular time,
its corporate trust business shall be administered, which office at the date
hereof is located at Worldwide Securities Services, 4 New York Plaza, 15th
Floor, New York, New York 10004, and (ii) when used with respect to the
Debenture Trustee, the office of the Debenture Trustee located at Worldwide
Securities Services, 4 New York Plaza, 15th Floor, New York, New York 10004.

      "Debenture Event of Default" means any "Event of Default" specified in
Section 6.1 of the Supplemental Indenture.

      "Debenture Redemption Date" means, with respect to any Debentures to be
redeemed under the Indenture, the date fixed for redemption of such Debentures
under the Indenture.

      "Debentures" means the $927.8 million initial aggregate principal amount
of the Sponsor's Series B junior subordinated debt securities, due 2040 issued
pursuant to the Indenture (which amount may be increased to $1,067.0 million in
connection with the exercise under the Underwriting Agreement by the
underwriters named therein of their option to buy additional Common Equity
Units).

      "Debenture Stated Date" means February 15, 2040, unless such date is
changed to an earlier date pursuant to Article X.

      "Debenture Trustee" means J.P. Morgan Trust Company, National Association,
not in its individual capacity but solely as trustee under the Indenture, or its
successor in interest in such capacity, or any successor trustee appointed as
provided in the Indenture.

      "Deferral Period" has the meaning specified in the Indenture.

      "Definitive Trust Preferred Securities Certificates" means either or both
(as the context requires) of (i) Trust Preferred Securities Certificates issued
as Book-Entry Trust Preferred Securities Certificates as provided in Section
5.11, and (ii) Trust Preferred Securities Certificates issued in certificated,
fully registered form as provided in Section 5.13.

      "Delaware Statutory Trust Act" means Chapter 38 of Title 12 of the
Delaware Code, 12 Del. C. Section 3801 et seq., as it may be amended from time
to time.

      "Delaware Trustee" means the Person identified as the "Delaware Trustee"
in the preamble to this Trust Agreement, solely in its capacity as Delaware
Trustee of the Trust and not in its individual capacity, or its successor in
interest in such capacity, or any successor Delaware trustee appointed as herein
provided.

      "Distribution Date" has the meaning specified in Section 4.1(a)(iii).

      "Distribution Period" means each period of time beginning on a
Distribution Date (or the Closing Date in the case of the initial Distribution
Period) and continuing to but not including the next succeeding Distribution
Date.

                                       5

"Distribution Rate" means (i) from the Closing Date to but not including
the earlier of (A) the Reset Date and (B) the Scheduled Redemption Date, 4.91%
per annum and (ii) for each Distribution Period commencing on or after the Reset
Date, the Reset Rate as determined in accordance with Article X.

      "Distributions" means amounts payable in respect of the Trust Securities
as provided in Section 4.1.

      "DTC" means The Depository Trust Company.

      "Early Dissolution Event" has the meaning specified in Section 9.2.

      "Event of Default" means any one of the following events (whatever the
reason for such event and whether it shall be voluntary or involuntary or be
effected by operation of law or pursuant to any judgment, decree or order of any
court or any order, rule or regulation of any administrative or governmental
body):

      (a) the occurrence of a Debenture Event of Default; or

      (b) default by the Trust in the payment of any Distribution when it
becomes due and payable, and continuation of such default for a period of 30
days; or

      (c) default by the Trust in the payment of any Redemption Price of any
Trust Security when it becomes due and payable; or

      (d) default in the performance, or breach, in any material respect, of any
covenant or warranty of the Trustees in this Trust Agreement (other than those
specified in clause (b) or (c) above) and continuation of such default or breach
for a period of 90 days after there has been given, by registered or certified
mail, to the Trustees and to the Sponsor by the Holders of at least 25% in
aggregate Liquidation Amount of the Outstanding Trust Preferred Securities a
written notice specifying such default or breach and requiring it to be remedied
and stating that such notice is a "Notice of Default" hereunder; or

      (e) the occurrence of a Bankruptcy Event with respect to the Property
Trustee if a successor Property Trustee has not been appointed within 90 days
thereof.

      "Excess Proceeds Remarketing Amount" means, in connection with a
Remarketing, for each Trust Preferred Security being remarketed an amount equal
to the amount, if any, by which the proceeds of the Remarketing, net of the
Remarketing Agent's Fee, exceed the Par Proceeds Remarketing Amount.

      "Exchange Act" means the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, and any
successor statute thereto, in each case as amended from time to time.

      "Expiration Date" has the meaning specified in Section 9.1.

      "Failed Remarketing" means a Remarketing that is not Successful.

                                       6

"Federal Reserve" means the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve
System, as from time to time constituted, or if at any time after the execution
of this Trust Agreement the Federal Reserve is not existing and performing the
duties now assigned to it, then the body performing such duties at such time.

      "Final Failed Remarketing" means the Remarketing on the Third Remarketing
Settlement Date in respect of the Series B Trust Preferred Securities, if such
Remarketing is a Failed Remarketing.

      "Guarantee" means the Guarantee Agreement executed and delivered by the
Sponsor and J.P. Morgan Trust Company, National Association, not in its
individual capacity but solely as guarantee trustee, contemporaneously with the
execution and delivery of this Trust Agreement, for the benefit of the holders
of the Trust Preferred Securities, as amended from time to time.

      "Holder" means a Person in whose name a Trust Security or Trust Securities
are registered in the Securities Register; any such Person shall be deemed to be
a beneficial owner within the meaning of the Delaware Statutory Trust Act.

      "Indenture" means the Base Indenture and the Supplemental Indenture, taken
together.

      "Initial Liquidation Amount" means the stated amount of $1,000 per Trust
Security.

      "Investment Company Act" means the Investment Company Act of 1940, or any
successor statute thereto, in each case as amended from time to time.

      "Lien" means any lien, pledge, charge, encumbrance, mortgage, deed of
trust, adverse ownership interest, hypothecation, assignment, security interest
or preference, priority or other security agreement or preferential arrangement
of any kind or nature whatsoever.

      "Like Amount" means (a) with respect to a redemption of any Trust
Securities, Trust Securities having an Accreted Liquidation Amount equal to the
Accreted Principal Amount of Debentures to be contemporaneously redeemed in
accordance with the Indenture, the proceeds of which will be used to pay the
Redemption Price of such Trust Securities, (b) with respect to a distribution of
Debentures to Holders of Trust Securities in connection with a dissolution or
liquidation of the Trust, Debentures having an Accreted Principal Amount equal
to the Accreted Liquidation Amount of the Trust Securities of the Holder to whom
such Debentures are distributed, and (c) with respect to any distribution of
Additional Amounts to Holders of Trust Securities, Debentures having an Accreted
Principal Amount equal to the Accreted Liquidation Amount of the Trust
Securities in respect of which such distribution is made.

      "Liquidation Date" means the date of the dissolution, winding-up or
dissolution of the Trust pursuant to Section 9.4.

      "Liquidation Distribution" has the meaning specified in Section 9.4(d).

      "Majority in Accreted Liquidation Amount of the Trust Preferred
Securities" or "Majority in Accreted Liquidation Amount of the Common
Securities" means, except as provided by the Trust Indenture Act, Trust
Preferred Securities or Common Securities, as the

                                       7

case may be, representing more than 50% of the aggregate Accreted Liquidation
Amount of all then Outstanding Trust Preferred Securities or Common Securities,
as the case may be.

      "Normal Common Equity Unit" has the meaning specified in the Stock
Purchase Contract Agreement.

      "Normal Common Equity Unit Certificate" has the meaning specified in the
Stock Purchase Contract Agreement.

      "Officers' Certificate" means, with respect to any Person, a certificate
signed by any two Authorized Officers of such Person. Any Officers' Certificate
delivered with respect to compliance with a condition or covenant provided for
in this Trust Agreement shall include:

      (a) a statement by each officer signing the Officers' Certificate that
such officer has read the covenant or condition and the definitions relating
thereto;

      (b) a brief statement of the nature and scope of the examination or
investigation undertaken by such officer in rendering the Officers' Certificate;

      (c) a statement that such officer has made such examination or
investigation as, in such officer's opinion, is necessary to enable such officer
to express an informed opinion as to whether or not such covenant or condition
has been complied with; and

      (d) a statement as to whether, in the opinion of such officer, such
condition or covenant has been complied with.

      "Opinion of Counsel" means a written opinion of counsel, who may be
counsel for or an employee of the Sponsor or any Affiliate of the Sponsor, who
shall be reasonably satisfactory to the Relevant Trustee.

      "Original Declaration of Trust" has the meaning specified in the recitals
to this Trust Agreement.

      "Outstanding," when used with respect to Trust Securities, means, as of
the date of determination, all Trust Securities theretofore executed and
delivered under this Trust Agreement, except:

      (a) Trust Securities theretofore canceled by the Property Trustee or
delivered to the Property Trustee for cancellation;

      (b) Trust Securities for whose payment or redemption money in the
necessary amount has been theretofore deposited with the Property Trustee or any
Paying Agent; provided that, if such Trust Securities are to be redeemed, notice
of such redemption has been duly given pursuant to this Trust Agreement; and

      (c) Trust Securities that have been paid or in exchange for or in lieu of
which other Trust Preferred Securities have been executed and delivered pursuant
to Sections 5.4, 5.5 and 5.11; provided, however, that in determining whether
the Holders of the requisite Accreted

                                       8

Liquidation Amount of the Outstanding Trust Preferred Securities have given any
request, demand, authorization, direction, notice, consent or waiver hereunder,
Trust Preferred Securities owned by the Sponsor, any Trustee, or any Affiliate
of the Sponsor or any Trustee shall be disregarded and deemed not to be
Outstanding, except that (a) in determining whether any Trustee shall be
protected in relying upon any such request, demand, authorization, direction,
notice, consent or waiver, only Trust Preferred Securities that such Trustee
actually knows to be so owned shall be so disregarded, and (b) the foregoing
shall not apply at any time when all of the outstanding Trust Preferred
Securities are owned by the Sponsor, one or more of the Trustees, and/or any
such Affiliate. Trust Preferred Securities so owned that have been pledged in
good faith may be regarded as Outstanding if the pledgee establishes to the
satisfaction of the Administrative Trustees the pledgee's right so to act with
respect to such Trust Preferred Securities and that the pledgee is not the
Sponsor or any Affiliate of the Sponsor. Notwithstanding the foregoing, Trust
Preferred Securities that are a component of Normal Common Equity Units and
pledged pursuant to the Pledge Agreement shall not be deemed to be not
Outstanding only by reason of such pledge.

      "Owner" means each Person who is the beneficial owner of Book-Entry Trust
Preferred Securities as reflected in the records of the Clearing Agency or, if a
Clearing Agency Participant is not the Owner, then as reflected in the records
of a Person maintaining an account with such Clearing Agency (directly or
indirectly, in accordance with the rules of such Clearing Agency).

      "Par Proceeds Remarketing Amount" means, in connection with a Remarketing,
an amount for each Trust Preferred Securities being remarketed equal to 100% of
its Accreted Liquidation Amount.

      "Paying Agent" means any paying agent or co-paying agent appointed
pursuant to Section 5.9 and shall initially be J.P. Morgan Trust Company,
National Association.

      "Payment Account" means a segregated non-interest-bearing corporate trust
account maintained by the Property Trustee (in its corporate capacity and not as
Property Trustee) in its trust department for the benefit of the Holders in
which all amounts paid in respect of the Debentures will be held and from which
the Property Trustee, through the Paying Agent, shall make payments to the
Holders in accordance with Sections 4.1 and 4.2.

      "Person" means a legal person, including any individual, corporation,
estate, partnership, joint venture, association, joint stock company, company,
limited liability company, trust, unincorporated association, or government or
any agency or political subdivision thereof, or any other entity of whatever
nature.

      "Pledge Agreement" means the Pledge Agreement, dated as of the date
hereof, among the Sponsor, JPMorgan Chase Bank, National Association, as
Collateral Agent, Custodial Agent and Securities Intermediary, and J.P. Morgan
Trust Company, National Association, as Stock Purchase Contract Agent and
attorney-in-fact for the Holders (as defined in the Stock Purchase Contract
Agreement) of the Stock Purchase Contracts, as amended or supplemented from time
to time.

                                       9

"Property Trustee" means the Person identified as the "Property Trustee"
in the preamble to this Trust Agreement, solely in its capacity as Property
Trustee of the Trust and not in its individual capacity, or its successor in
interest in such capacity, or any successor property trustee appointed as herein
provided.

      "Put Consideration" has the meaning specified in Section 10.5(a).

      "Put Right" has the meaning specified in Section 10.05(a).

      "Redemption Date" means, with respect to any Trust Security to be
redeemed, the date fixed for such redemption by or pursuant to this Trust
Agreement; provided that each Debenture Redemption Date and the stated maturity
of the Debentures shall be a Redemption Date for a Like Amount of Trust
Securities.

      "Redemption Price" means, with respect to any Trust Security, the Accreted
Liquidation Amount of such Trust Security, plus accumulated and unpaid
Distributions to the Redemption Date, plus the related amount of the premium, if
any, paid by the Sponsor upon the concurrent redemption of a Like Amount of
Debentures.

      "Relevant Trustee" shall have the meaning specified in Section 8.10.

      "Remarketing" means a remarketing of Trust Preferred Securities pursuant
to Article X and the related Remarketing Agreement.

      "Remarketing Agent" means, as to a Remarketing and related Remarketing
Agreement, the remarketing agent and any successor or replacement remarketing
agent appointed by the Sponsor and the Trust pursuant to Section 10.1.

      "Remarketing Agent's Fee" means, as to the Remarketing Agent and a
Remarketing, the fee provided for in the related Remarketing Agreement.

      "Remarketing Agreement" means, with respect to a Remarketing, the
remarketing agreement entered into among the Sponsor, the Trust and the
Remarketing Agent pursuant to Section 10.1 with respect to such Remarketing of
Trust Preferred Securities.

      "Remarketing Date" means, as to a Remarketing Settlement Date, the third
Business Day immediately preceding such Remarketing Settlement Date.

      "Remarketing Purchase Date" means a Reset Date on which the Trust is
required to purchase the Trust Preferred Securities, subject to and in
accordance with Section 10.5.

      "Remarketing Settlement Date" means each of the First Remarketing
Settlement Date, the Second Remarketing Settlement Date, the Third Remarketing
Settlement Date in respect to the Series B Trust Preferred Securities as
specified in the Stock Purchase Contract Agreement.

      "Reset Cap", as of any Remarketing Settlement Date, means the prevailing
market yield, as determined by the Remarketing Agent, of the benchmark U.S.
treasury security having a remaining maturity that most closely corresponds to
the period from such date until the

                                       10

Scheduled Redemption Date (after giving effect to any change in the Scheduled
Redemption Date being made pursuant to Article X on the Remarketing Settlement
Date if the Remarketing is Successful), plus 350 basis points per annum.

      "Reset Date" means the first date that is a Remarketing Settlement Date on
which a Successful Remarketing occurs.

      "Reset Rate" has the meaning set forth in Section 10.3(a).

      "Responsible Officer" means, with respect to any Trustee, the President,
any Senior Vice President, any Vice President, any Assistant Vice President, the
Secretary, any Assistant Secretary, the Treasurer, any Assistant Treasurer, any
Trust Officer or Assistant Trust Officer of such Trustee or any other officer of
such Trustee customarily performing functions similar to those performed by any
of the above designated officers and also means, with respect to a particular
corporate trust matter, any other officer to whom such matter is referred
because of his knowledge of or familiarity with the particular subject.

      "Scheduled Redemption Date" means August 15, 2040 or, if such date is
changed to an earlier date in accordance with Article X, such earlier date.

      "Securities Act" means the Securities Act of 1933, and any successor
statute thereto, in each case as amended from time to time.

      "Securities Intermediary" has the meaning specified in the Stock Purchase
Agreement.

      "Securities Register" and "Securities Registrar" have the respective
meanings specified in Section 5.4.

      "Separate Trust Preferred Securities" means Trust Preferred Securities
that are no longer a component of Normal Common Equity Units.

      "Sponsor" has the meaning specified in the preamble to this Trust
Agreement.

      "Stock Purchase Contract" has the meaning specified in the Stock Purchase
Contract Agreement.

      "Stock Purchase Contract Agent" means J.P. Morgan Trust Company, National
Association, not in its individual capacity but solely as stock purchase
contract agent and any successor thereto as stock purchase contract agent, under
the Stock Purchase Contract Agreement.

      "Stock Purchase Contract Agreement" means the Stock Purchase Contract
Agreement, dated as of the date hereof, between the Sponsor and the Stock
Purchase Contract Agent, as amended or supplemented from time to time.

      "Stock Purchase Date" has the meaning specified in the Stock Purchase
Contract Agreement.

                                       11

"Stripped Common Equity Unit" has the meaning specified in the Stock
Purchase Contract Agreement.

      "Successful" means, as to a Remarketing, that the Remarketing is conducted
in accordance with Article X and the Remarketing Agent finds buyers for all of
the Trust Preferred Securities offered in the Remarketing by 4:00 P.M., New York
City time, on the Remarketing Date.

      "Supplemental Indenture" means the Second Supplemental Indenture to the
Base Indenture, dated as of June 21, 2005, between the Sponsor and the Debenture
Trustee.

      "Time of Delivery" means June 21, 2005.

      "Trust" means the Delaware statutory trust known as "MetLife Capital Trust
III" which was created under the Delaware Statutory Trust Act pursuant to the
Original Declaration of Trust and the filing of the Certificate of Trust, and
continued pursuant to this Trust Agreement.

      "Trust Agreement" means this Amended and Restated Declaration of Trust, as
the same may be modified, amended or supplemented in accordance with the
applicable provisions hereof, including (i) all exhibits, and (ii) for all
purposes of this Trust Agreement and any such modification, amendment or
supplement, the provisions of the Trust Indenture Act that are deemed to be a
part of and govern this Trust Agreement and any such modification, amendment or
supplement, respectively.

      "Trust Indenture Act" means the Trust Indenture Act of 1939, as amended,
as in force at the date as of which this Trust Agreement was executed; provided,
however, that in the event the Trust Indenture Act of 1939 is amended after such
date, "Trust Indenture Act" means, to the extent required by any such amendment,
the Trust Indenture Act of 1939, as so amended.

      "Trust Preferred Securities" means the series of securities known as the
"Series B Trust Preferred Securities" of the Trust.

      "Trust Preferred Securities Certificate" means a certificate evidencing
ownership of Trust Preferred Securities, substantially in the form attached as
Exhibit C.

      "Trust Property" means (a) the Debentures, (b) any cash on deposit in, or
owing to, the Payment Account, and (c) all proceeds and rights in respect of the
foregoing and any other property and assets for the time being held or deemed to
be held by the Property Trustee pursuant to the trusts of this Trust Agreement.

      "Trust Securities Certificate" means any one of the Common Securities
Certificates or the Trust Preferred Securities Certificates.

      "Trust Security" means any one of the Common Securities or the Trust
Preferred Securities.

      "Trustees" means, collectively, the Property Trustee, the Delaware
Trustee, and the Administrative Trustees.

                                       12

"Underwriting Agreement" means the Underwriting Agreement, dated June 15,
2005, among the Company, the Trust, MetLife Capital Trust II and the several
underwriters named in Schedule I (the "Underwriters") to the Pricing Agreement
dated June 15, 2005 among the Company, the Trust, MetLife Capital Trust III and
the Underwriters.

      "Vice President," when used with respect to the Sponsor, means any duly
appointed vice president, whether or not designated by a number or a word or
words added before or after the title "vice president."

                                   ARTICLE II
                            CONTINUATION OF THE TRUST

      SECTION 2.1. Name.

      The trust continued hereby shall be known as "MetLife Capital Trust III"
as such name may be modified from time to time by the Administrative Trustees
following written notice to the Holders and the other Trustees, in which name
the Administrative Trustees and the other Trustees may conduct the business of
the Trust, make and execute contracts and other instruments on behalf of the
Trust and sue and be sued on behalf of the Trust.

      SECTION 2.2. Office of the Delaware Trustee; Principal Place of Business.

      The address of the Delaware Trustee in the State of Delaware is c/o
JPMorgan Chase Bank, 500 Stanton Christiana Road, 3rd Floor/OPS4, Newark, DE
19713, Attention: Worldwide Securities Services, or such other address in the
State of Delaware as the Delaware Trustee may designate by written notice to the
Sponsor, the Property Trustee and the Administrative Trustees. The principal
executive office of the Trust is c/o Chase Bank USA, National Association, 500
Stanton Christiana Road, 3rd Floor/OPS4, Newark, Delaware 19713, Attention:
Institutional Trust Services.

      SECTION 2.3. Initial Contribution of Trust Property; Organizational
Expenses.

      The Trustees acknowledge receipt from the Sponsor in connection with the
Original Declaration of Trust of the sum of $10, which constituted the initial
Trust Property. The Sponsor shall pay organizational expenses of the Trust as
they arise or shall, upon request of any Trustee, promptly reimburse such
Trustee for any such expenses paid by such Trustee. The Sponsor shall not make
any claim upon the Trust Property for the payment of such expenses.

      SECTION 2.4. Issuance of the Trust Preferred Securities.

      On June 15, 2005, the Sponsor, on behalf of the Trust, executed and
delivered the Underwriting Agreement. Contemporaneously with the execution and
delivery of this Trust Agreement, an Administrative Trustee, on behalf of the
Trust, in connection with the execution and delivery on such date of 82,800,000
Normal Common Equity Units to the underwriters named in the Underwriting
Agreement, shall execute in accordance with Section 5.3 and deliver to the
Securities Intermediary a Trust Preferred Securities Certificate, registered in
the name of the Stock Purchase Contract Agent with the form of assignment
attached thereto executed in blank, in an aggregate Initial Liquidation Amount
of $1,035,000,000, against payment of

                                       13

$1,035,000,000 as the purchase price therefor in immediately available funds,
which funds such Administrative Trustee shall promptly deliver to the Property
Trustee or its designee.

      SECTION 2.5. Issuance of the Common Securities; Subscription and Purchase
Debentures.

      Contemporaneously with the execution and delivery of this Trust Agreement,
an Administrative Trustee, on behalf of the Trust, shall execute in accordance
with Section 5.3 and deliver to the Sponsor a Common Securities Certificate,
registered in the name of the Sponsor, evidencing 32,010 Common Securities
having an aggregate Initial Liquidation Amount of $32,010,000 against payment by
the Sponsor of the purchase price therefor in immediately available funds, which
amount such Administrative Trustee shall promptly deliver to the Property
Trustee or its designee. Contemporaneously therewith, an Administrative Trustee,
on behalf of the Trust, shall subscribe to and purchase from the Sponsor the
Debentures registered in the name of the Trust and having an aggregate initial
principal amount equal to $1,067,010,000 and shall deliver to the Sponsor the
purchase price therefor (being the sum of the amounts delivered to the Property
Trustee pursuant to (i) the second sentence of Section 2.4 and (ii) the first
sentence of this Section 2.5).

      SECTION 2.6. Trust Agreement.

      The exclusive purposes and functions of the Trust are (a) to issue and
sell Trust Securities, (b) to use the proceeds from such sale to acquire the
Debentures, and (c) to engage in those activities necessary or incidental
thereto. The Sponsor hereby appoints the Trustees as trustees of the Trust, to
have all the rights, powers and duties to the extent set forth herein, and the
Trustees hereby accept such appointment. The Property Trustee hereby declares
that it will hold the Trust Property upon and subject to the conditions set
forth herein for the benefit of the Trust and the Holders. The Administrative
Trustees shall have all rights, powers and duties set forth herein and in
accordance with applicable law with respect to accomplishing the purposes of the
Trust. The Delaware Trustee shall be one of the trustees of the Trust for the
sole and limited purpose of fulfilling the requirements of Section 3807(a) of
the Delaware Statutory Trust Act and for taking such actions as are required to
be taken by a Delaware trustee under the Delaware Statutory Trust Act.

      SECTION 2.7. Authorization to Enter into Certain Transactions.

            (a) The Trustees shall conduct the affairs of the Trust in
      accordance with the terms of this Trust Agreement. Subject to the
      limitations set forth in paragraph (b) of this Section, and in accordance
      with the following provisions (i) and (ii), the Trustees shall have the
      authority to enter into all transactions and agreements determined by the
      Trustees to be appropriate in exercising the authority, express or
      implied, otherwise granted to the Trustees under this Trust Agreement, and
      to perform all acts in furtherance thereof, including the following:

                  (i) As among the Trustees, the Administrative Trustees, and
            each of them, shall have the power, duty and authority to act on
            behalf of the Trust with respect to the following matters:

                                       14

(A) the issuance and sale of the Trust Securities;

            (B) to cause the Trust to enter into, and to execute, deliver and
      perform on behalf of the Trust the common securities purchase agreement
      and to cause the Trust to enter into, and to execute, deliver and perform
      on behalf of the Trust the Certificate Depository Agreement and such other
      agreements as may be necessary or desirable in connection with the
      purposes and function of the Trust;

            (C) to cause the Trust to execute, deliver and perform its
      obligations under Remarketing Agreements entered into pursuant to Article
      X and, except as otherwise expressly provided in Article X, cause the
      Trust to take such actions with respect to Remarketings as are provided
      for in Article X or as may be necessary or, as determined by the
      Administrative Trustees, useful in connection with Remarketings;

            (D) to cause the Trust to execute, deliver and perform its
      obligations under the Agreement as to Expenses and Liabilities;

            (E) assisting in the registration of the Trust Preferred Securities
      under the Securities Act and under state securities or blue sky laws, and
      the qualification of this Trust Agreement under the Trust Indenture Act;

            (F) assisting in the listing of the Trust Preferred Securities upon
      such securities exchange or exchanges, if any, as shall be determined by
      the Sponsor, with the registration of the Trust Preferred Securities under
      the Exchange Act, if required, and with the preparation and filing of all
      periodic and other reports and other documents pursuant to the foregoing;

            (G) assisting in the sending of notices (other than notices of
      default) and other information regarding the Trust Securities and the
      Debentures to the Holders in accordance with this Trust Agreement;

            (H) the appointment of a Paying Agent and Securities Registrar in
      accordance with this Trust Agreement;

            (I) to the extent provided in this Trust Agreement, the winding up
      of the affairs of and liquidation of the Trust and the execution and
      filing of the certificate of cancellation with the Secretary of State of
      the State of Delaware;

            (J) execution of the Trust Securities on behalf of the Trust in
      accordance with this Trust Agreement;

            (K) execution and delivery of closing certificates, if any, pursuant
      to the Underwriting Agreement and any Remarketing Agreement and
      application for a taxpayer identification number for the Trust;

            (L) unless otherwise required by the Delaware Statutory Trust Act,
      the Trust Indenture Act or other applicable law, to execute on behalf of
      the Trust (either acting

                                       15

alone or together with any or all of the Administrative Trustees) any
      documents that the Administrative Trustees have the power to execute
      pursuant to this Trust Agreement;

            (M) the taking of any action incidental to the foregoing as the
      Trustees may from time to time determine is necessary or advisable to give
      effect to the terms of this Trust Agreement; and

            (N) the preparation, execution and filing of the certificate of
      cancellation with the Secretary of State of the State of Delaware.

                  (ii) As among the Trustees, the Property Trustee shall have
            the power, duty and authority to act on behalf of the Trust with
            respect to the following matters:

            (A) the establishment of the Payment Account;

            (B) the receipt of the Debentures;

            (C) to authenticate the Trust Securities Certificates;

            (D) the collection of interest, principal and any other payments or
      instruments (including due bills or promissory notes of the Sponsor
      issuable under or with respect to the Debentures) made in respect of the
      Debentures and the holding of such amounts in the Payment Account;

            (E) the distribution through the Paying Agent of amounts or property
      or instruments (including due bills or promissory notes of the Sponsor
      issuable under or with respect to the Debentures) distributable to the
      Holders in respect of the Trust Securities;

            (F) the exercise of all of the rights, powers and privileges of a
      holder of the Debentures;

            (G) the sending of notices of default and other information
      regarding the Trust Securities and the Debentures to the Holders in
      accordance with this Trust Agreement;

            (H) the distribution of the Trust Property in accordance with the
      terms of this Trust Agreement;

            (I) acting as Paying Agent and/or Security Registrar to the extent
      appointed under this Trust Agreement;

            (J) to the extent provided in this Trust Agreement, the winding up
      of the affairs of and liquidation of the Trust; and

            (K) after an Event of Default (other than under paragraph (b),(c),
      (d) or (e) of the definition of such term if such Event of Default is by
      or with respect to the Property Trustee), and subject to the provisions of
      Article VIII, the taking of any action incidental to the foregoing as is
      necessary or advisable to give effect to the terms of this Trust

                                       16

Agreement and protect and conserve the Trust Property for the benefit of
      the Holders (without consideration of the effect of any such action on any
      particular Holder).

      Except as otherwise provided in this Section 2.7(a)(ii), the Property
Trustee shall have none of the duties, liabilities, powers or the authority of
the Administrative Trustees set forth in Section 2.7(a)(i).

            (b) So long as this Trust Agreement remains in effect, the Trust (or
      the Trustees acting on behalf of the Trust, solely in their respective
      capacities as Trustees) shall not undertake any business, activities or
      transactions except as expressly provided herein or contemplated hereby.
      In particular, the Trustees (acting on behalf of the Trust, solely in
      their respective capacities as Trustees) shall not (i) acquire any
      investments or engage in any activities not authorized by this Trust
      Agreement, (ii) sell, assign, transfer, exchange, mortgage, pledge,
      set-off or otherwise dispose of any of the Trust Property or interests
      therein, including to Holders, except as expressly provided herein, (iii)
      take any action that would reasonably be expected to cause the Trust to
      become taxable as a corporation or classified as other than a grantor
      trust for United States Federal income tax purposes, (iv) incur any
      indebtedness for borrowed money or issue any other debt, (v) take or
      consent to any action that would result in the placement of a Lien on any
      of the Trust Property, (vi) invest any proceeds received by the Trust from
      holding the Debentures, but shall distribute all such proceeds to Holders
      of Trust Securities pursuant to the terms of this Trust Agreement and of
      the Trust Securities, (vii) acquire any assets other than the Trust
      Property, (viii) possess any power or otherwise act in such a way as to
      vary the Trust Property, (ix) possess any power or otherwise act in such a
      way as to vary the terms of the Trust Securities in any way whatsoever
      (except to the extent expressly authorized in this Trust Agreement or by
      the terms of the Trust Securities) or (x) issue any securities or other
      evidences of beneficial ownership of, or beneficial interest in, the Trust
      other than the Trust Securities. The Property Trustee shall defend all
      claims and demands of all Persons at any time claiming any Lien on any of
      the Trust Property adverse to the interest of the Trust or the Holders in
      their capacity as Holders.

            (c) In connection with the issuance and sale of the Trust Preferred
      Securities, the Sponsor shall have the right and, if the Sponsor shall
      desire that the actions be taken, the responsibility to assist the Trust
      with respect to, or effect on behalf of the Trust, the following (and any
      actions taken by the Sponsor in furtherance of the following prior to the
      date of this Trust Agreement are hereby ratified and confirmed in all
      respects):

                  (i) the preparation and filing by the Trust with the
            Commission of and the execution on behalf of the Trust of a
            registration statement on the appropriate form in relation to the
            Trust Preferred Securities, including any amendments thereto;

                  (ii) the determination of the states in which to take
            appropriate action to qualify or register for sale all or part of
            the Trust Preferred Securities and the determination of any and all
            such acts, other than actions that must be taken by or on behalf of
            the Trust, and the advice to the Trust of actions they must take on
            behalf of the Trust, and the preparation for execution and filing of
            any documents to be

                                       17

executed and filed by the Trust or on behalf of the Trust, as the
            Sponsor deems necessary or advisable in order to comply with the
            applicable laws of any such states;

                  (iii) the preparation for filing by the Trust and execution on
            behalf of the Trust of an application to the New York Stock Exchange
            or any other national stock exchange or the Nasdaq National Market
            or any other automated quotation system for listing upon notice of
            issuance of any Trust Preferred Securities and filing with such
            exchange or self-regulatory organization such notification and
            documents as may be necessary from time to time to maintain such
            listing;

                  (iv) the negotiation of the terms of, and the execution and
            delivery of, the Underwriting Agreement providing for the sale of
            the Trust Preferred Securities; and

                  (v) the taking of any other actions necessary or desirable to
            carryout any of the foregoing activities.

            (d) Notwithstanding anything herein to the contrary, the
      Administrative Trustees are authorized and directed to conduct the affairs
      of the Trust and to operate the Trust so that the Trust will not be deemed
      to be an "investment company" required to be registered under the
      Investment Company Act, and will not be taxable as a corporation or
      classified as other than a grantor trust for United States Federal income
      tax purposes and so that the Debentures will be treated as indebtedness of
      the Sponsor for United States Federal income tax purposes. In this
      connection, the Sponsor and the Administrative Trustees are authorized to
      take any action, not inconsistent with applicable law, the Certificate of
      Trust or this Trust Agreement, that they determine in their discretion to
      be necessary or desirable for such purposes, as long as such action does
      not adversely affect in any material respect the interests of the Holders
      of the Outstanding Trust Preferred Securities. In no event shall the
      Sponsor or the Trustees be liable to the Trust or the Holders for any
      failure to comply with this Section that results from a change in law or
      regulation or in the interpretation thereof.

      SECTION 2.8. Assets of Trust.

      The assets of the Trust shall consist solely of the Trust Property.

      SECTION 2.9. Title to Trust Property.

      Legal title to all Trust Property shall be vested at all times in the
Property Trustee (in its capacity as such) and shall be held and administered by
the Property Trustee in trust for the benefit of the Trust and the Holders in
accordance with this Trust Agreement.

                                       18

ARTICLE III
                                 PAYMENT ACCOUNT

      SECTION 3.1. Payment Account.

            (a) On or prior to the Closing Date, the Property Trustee shall
      establish the Payment Account. The Property Trustee and its agents shall
      have exclusive control and sole right of withdrawal with respect to the
      Payment Account for the purpose of making deposits in and withdrawals from
      the Payment Account in accordance with this Trust Agreement. All monies
      and other property deposited or held from time to time in the Payment
      Account shall be held by the Property Trustee in the Payment Account for
      the exclusive benefit of the Holders and for distribution as herein
      provided, including (and subject to) any priority of payments provided for
      herein.

            (b) The Property Trustee shall deposit in the Payment Account,
      promptly upon receipt, all payments of principal of or interest on, and
      any other payments or proceeds with respect to, the Debentures. Amounts
      held in the Payment Account shall not be invested by the Property Trustee
      pending distribution thereof.

                                   ARTICLE IV
                            DISTRIBUTIONS; REDEMPTION

      SECTION 4.1. Distributions.

            (a) The Trust Securities represent undivided beneficial interests in
      the Trust Property, and Distributions (including of Additional Amounts)
      will be made on the Trust Securities at the rate and on the dates that
      payments of interest (including Additional Interest, as defined in the
      Indenture) are made on the Debentures. Accordingly:

                  (i) Distributions on the Trust Securities shall be cumulative
            and will accumulate from the Time of Delivery as and when interest
            accrues on the Debentures.

                  (ii) Distributions shall accumulate on the Trust Securities
            for each Distribution Period at the Distribution Rate for such
            Distribution Period.

                  (iii) Distributions payable in cash will be payable quarterly
            in arrears on February 15, May 15, August 15 and November 15 of each
            year, commencing August 15, 2005, to and including the Stock
            Purchase Date, and on and after the Stock Purchase Date,
            Distributions payable in cash, if any, will be payable semi-annually
            on each February 15 and August 15 or May 15 and November 15, as
            applicable, with the first such semi-annual distribution date, if
            any, occurring on a date that is six months after the Stock Purchase
            Date (each such date a "Distribution Date"), in each case subject to
            the Trust having funds available for such Distributions.

                  (iv) For Distribution Periods commencing on or after the Stock
            Purchase Date, Distributions will accrete at the Distribution Rate
            instead of being paid in cash (with the amount of accretion on any
            date for each Trust Security being

                                       19

equal to the amount of accretion on a Like Amount of Debentures),
            unless the Sponsor elects to pay interest on the Debentures in cash
            pursuant to Section 10.2 or the Stock Purchase Date is August 15,
            2010 and the Remarketing for settlement on such date is a Failed
            Remarketing.

                  (v) If any date which is otherwise a Distribution Date
            pursuant to paragraph (iii) above is not a Business Day, then the
            payment of cash Distributions on such Distribution Date, if
            applicable, shall be made on the next succeeding day that is a
            Business Day (and without any interest or other payment in respect
            of such delay), with the same force and effect as if made on the
            date on which such payment was originally payable; provided,
            however, that if the next succeeding Business Day is in the next
            succeeding calendar year, then the payment of cash distributions
            shall be made on the immediately preceding Business Day.

                  (vi) Distributions shall be payable in cash on each
            Distribution Date on which the Sponsor is obligated to pay interest
            on the Debentures in cash, and the amount of such cash Distribution
            (net of any withholding tax required by law to be withheld on such
            payments which shall be remitted to the appropriate taxing
            jurisdiction) on the Accredited Liquidation Amount of each Trust
            Security shall equal the amount of interest payable in cash on such
            Distribution Date on a Like Amount of Debentures.

                  IRS Circular 230 disclosure: To ensure compliance with
            requirements imposed by the IRS, we inform you that any U.S. federal
            tax advice contained in this communication (including any
            attachments) is not intended or written to be used, and cannot be
            used, for the purpose of (i) avoiding penalties under the Internal
            Revenue Code or (ii) promoting, marketing or recommending to another
            party any transaction or matter addressed herein.

                  (vii) The amount of Distributions payable for any Distribution
            Period shall include the Additional Amounts, if any.

                  (viii) Distributions on the Trust Securities shall be made by
            the Property Trustee from the Payment Account and shall be payable
            on each Distribution Date only to the extent that the Trust has
            funds then on hand and available in the Payment Account for the
            payment of such Distributions.

            (b) Distributions in cash on the Trust Securities with respect to a
      Distribution Date shall be payable to the Holders thereof as they appear
      on the Securities Register for the Trust Securities at the close of
      business on the relevant record date for such Distribution Date, which
      shall be the first date of the month in which the relevant Distribution
      Date falls. Distributions payable on any Trust Securities that are not
      punctually paid on any Distribution Date will cease to be payable to the
      Person in whose name such Trust Securities are registered on the relevant
      record date, and such defaulted Distribution will instead be payable to
      the Person in whose name such Trust Securities are registered on the
      special record date or other specified date for determining Holders
      entitled to such defaulted interest established in accordance with the
      Indenture.

                                       20

SECTION 4.2. Redemption.

            (a) On each Debenture Redemption Date and on the Debenture Stated
      Maturity Date, the Trust will be required to redeem a Like Amount of Trust
      Securities at the Redemption Price.

            (b) Upon receipt of notice of a Debenture Redemption Date, notice of
      redemption of a Like Amount of Trust Securities shall be given by the
      Property Trustee by first-class mail, postage prepaid, mailed not less
      than 30 nor more than 60 days prior to the Redemption Date to each Holder
      of Trust Securities to be redeemed, at such Holder's address appearing in
      the Security Register. All notices of redemption shall state:

                  (i) the Redemption Date;

                  (ii) the Redemption Price or if the Redemption Price cannot be
            calculated prior to the time the notice is required to be sent, the
            estimate of the Redemption Price together with a statement that it
            is an estimate and that the actual Redemption Price will be
            calculated on the third Business Day prior to the Redemption Date
            (and if an estimate is provided, a further notice shall be sent of
            the actual Redemption Price on the date that such Redemption Price
            is calculated);

                  (iii) the CUSIP number or CUSIP numbers of the Trust Preferred
            Securities affected;

                  (iv) if less than all the Outstanding Trust Securities are to
            be redeemed, the identification and/or the aggregate Liquidation
            Amount of the particular Trust Securities to be redeemed;

                  (v) that on the Redemption Date the Redemption Price will
            become due and payable upon each such Trust Security to be redeemed
            and that Distributions thereon will cease to accumulate on and after
            said date, except as provided in Section 4.2(d) below; and

                  (vi) if the Trust Preferred Securities are not in
            book-entry-only form, the place or places where the Trust Preferred
            Securities Certificates are to be surrendered for the payment of the
            Redemption Price.

            (c) The Trust Securities redeemed on each Redemption Date shall be
      redeemed at the Redemption Price with the proceeds from the
      contemporaneous redemption or payment at the Debenture Stated Maturity
      Date of the Debentures. Redemptions of the Trust Securities shall be made
      and the Redemption Price shall be payable on each Redemption Date only to
      the extent that the Trust has funds then on hand and available in the
      Payment Account for the payment of such Redemption Price.

            (d) If the Property Trustee gives a notice of redemption in respect
      of any Trust Preferred Securities, then, by 12:00 noon, New York City
      time, on the Redemption Date, subject to Section 4.2(c), the Property
      Trustee will, with respect to Book-Entry Trust

                                       21

Preferred Securities, irrevocably deposit with the Clearing Agency for
      such Book-Entry Trust Preferred Securities, to the extent available
      therefor, funds sufficient to pay the applicable Redemption Price and will
      give such Clearing Agency irrevocable instructions and authority to pay
      the Redemption Price to the Holders of the Trust Preferred Securities.
      With respect to Trust Preferred Securities that are not Book-Entry Trust
      Preferred Securities, the Property Trustee, subject to Section 4.2(c),
      will irrevocably deposit with the Paying Agent, to the extent available
      therefor, funds sufficient to pay the applicable Redemption Price and will
      give the Paying Agent irrevocable instructions and authority to pay the
      Redemption Price to the Holders of the Trust Preferred Securities upon
      surrender of their Trust Preferred Securities Certificates.
      Notwithstanding the foregoing, Distributions payable on or prior to the
      Redemption Date for any Trust Securities called for redemption shall be
      payable to the Holders of such Trust Securities as they appear on the
      Securities Register for the Trust Securities on the relevant record dates
      for the related Distribution Dates. If notice of redemption shall have
      been given and funds deposited as required, then upon the date of such
      deposit, all rights of Holders holding Trust Securities so called for
      redemption will cease, except the right of such Holders to receive the
      Redemption Price and any Distribution payable in respect of the Trust
      Securities on or prior to the Redemption Date, but without interest, and
      such Trust Securities will cease to be outstanding. In the event that any
      date on which any Redemption Price is payable is not a Business Day, then
      payment of the Redemption Price payable on such date will be made on the
      next succeeding day that is a Business Day (without any interest or other
      payment in respect of any such delay), with the same force and effect as
      if made on such date. In the event that payment of the Redemption Price in
      respect of any Trust Securities called for redemption is improperly
      withheld or refused and not paid either by the Trust or by the Sponsor
      pursuant to the Guarantee, Distributions on such Trust Securities will
      continue to accumulate, as set forth in Section 4.1, from the Redemption
      Date originally established by the Trust for such Trust Securities to the
      date such Redemption Price is actually paid, in which case the actual
      payment date will be the date fixed for redemption for purposes of
      calculating the Redemption Price.

            (e) Subject to Section 4.3(a), if less than all the Outstanding
      Trust Securities are to be redeemed on a Redemption Date, then the
      aggregate Accreted Liquidation Amount of Trust Securities to be redeemed
      shall be allocated pro rata to the Common Securities and the Trust
      Preferred Securities based upon the relative Accreted Liquidation Amounts
      of such classes. The particular Trust Preferred Securities to be redeemed
      shall be selected on a pro rata basis based upon their respective Accreted
      Liquidation Amounts not more than 60 days prior to the Redemption Date by
      the Property Trustee from the Outstanding Trust Preferred Securities not
      previously called for redemption by any method the Property Trustee deems
      fair and appropriate, provided that so long as the Trust Preferred
      Securities are in book-entry-only form, such selection shall be made in
      accordance with the customary procedures for the Clearing Agency for the
      Trust Preferred Securities. The Property Trustee shall promptly notify the
      Securities Registrar in writing of the Trust Preferred Securities selected
      for redemption and, in the case of any Trust Preferred Securities selected
      for partial redemption, the Accreted Liquidation Amount thereof to be
      redeemed. For all purposes of this Trust Agreement, unless the context
      otherwise requires, all provisions relating to the redemption of Trust
      Preferred

                                       22

Securities shall relate, in the case of any Trust Preferred Securities
      redeemed or to be redeemed only in part, to the portion of the aggregate
      Liquidation Amount of Trust Preferred Securities that has been or is to be
      redeemed.

      SECTION 4.3. Subordination of Common Securities.

            (a) Payment of Distributions (including any Additional Amounts) on,
      the Redemption Price of, and the Liquidation Distribution in respect of,
      the Trust Securities, as applicable, shall be made, subject to Section
      4.2(e), pro rata among the Common Securities and the Trust Preferred
      Securities based on the Accreted Liquidation Amount of the Trust
      Securities; provided, however, that if on any Distribution Date,
      Redemption Date or Liquidation Date any Event of Default resulting from a
      Debenture Event of Default specified in Section 6.1(a)(1) or 6.1(a)(2) of
      the Supplemental Indenture shall have occurred and be continuing, no
      payment of any Distribution (including any Additional Amounts) on,
      Redemption Price of, or Liquidation Distribution in respect of, any Common
      Security, and no other payment on account of the redemption, liquidation
      or other acquisition of Common Securities, shall be made unless payment in
      full in cash of all accumulated and unpaid Distributions (including any
      Additional Amounts) on all Outstanding Trust Preferred Securities for all
      Distribution Periods terminating on or prior thereto, or in the case of
      payment of the Redemption Price the full amount of such Redemption Price
      on all Outstanding Trust Preferred Securities then called for redemption,
      or in the case of payment of the Liquidation Distribution the full amount
      of such Liquidation Distribution on all Outstanding Trust Preferred
      Securities, shall have been made or provided for, and all funds
      immediately available to the Property Trustee shall first be applied to
      the payment in full in cash of all Distributions (including any Additional
      Amounts) on, or the Redemption Price of, the Trust Preferred Securities
      then due and payable.

            (b) In the case of the occurrence of any Event of Default resulting
      from any Debenture Event of Default, the Holders of the Common Securities
      shall have no right to act with respect to any such Event of Default under
      this Trust Agreement until the effect of all such Events of Default with
      respect to the Trust Preferred Securities have been cured, waived or
      otherwise eliminated. Until all such Events of Default under this Trust
      Agreement with respect to the Trust Preferred Securities have been so
      cured, waived or otherwise eliminated, the Property Trustee shall act
      solely on behalf of the Holders of the Trust Preferred Securities and not
      on behalf of the Holders of the Common Securities, and only the Holders of
      the Trust Preferred Securities will have the right to direct the Property
      Trustee to act on their behalf.

      SECTION 4.4. Payment Procedures.

      Payments of cash Distributions (including any Additional Amounts) in
respect of the Trust Preferred Securities shall, subject to the next succeeding
sentence, be made by check mailed to the address of the Person entitled thereto
as such address shall appear on the Securities Register or, if the Trust
Preferred Securities are held by a Clearing Agency, such Distributions shall be
made to the Clearing Agency by wire transfer of immediately available funds. A
Holder of $1,000,000 or more in aggregate Initial Liquidation Amount of Trust
Preferred Securities may

                                       23

receive payments of cash Distributions (including any Additional Amounts) by
wire transfer of immediately available funds upon written request to the
Property Trustee not later than the 15th calendar day, whether or not a Business
Day, before the relevant Distribution Date. Payments in respect of the Common
Securities shall be made in such manner as shall be mutually agreed between the
Property Trustee and the Holders of the Common Securities.

      SECTION 4.5. Tax Returns and Reports.

      The Administrative Trustees shall prepare (or cause to be prepared), at
the Sponsor's expense, and file all United States Federal, state and local tax
and information returns and reports required to be filed by or in respect of the
Trust. In this regard, the Administrative Trustees shall (a) prepare and file
(or cause to be prepared and filed) all Internal Revenue Service forms required
to be filed in respect of the Trust in each taxable year of the Trust, and (b)
prepare and furnish (or cause to be prepared and furnished) to each Holder all
Internal Revenue Service forms required to be provided by the Trust. The
Administrative Trustees shall provide the Sponsor and the Property Trustee with
a copy of all such returns and reports promptly after such filing or furnishing.
The Trustees shall comply with United States Federal withholding and backup
withholding tax laws and information reporting requirements with respect to any
payments to Holders under the Trust Securities.

      SECTION 4.6. Payment of Expenses of the Trust.

      The Sponsor shall pay to the Trust, and reimburse the Trust for, the full
amount of any costs, expenses or liabilities of the Trust (other than
obligations of the Trust to pay the Holders of any Trust Preferred Securities or
other similar interests in the Trust the amounts due such Holders pursuant to
the terms of the Trust Preferred Securities or such other similar interests, as
the case may be), including, without limitation, any taxes, duties or other
governmental charges of whatever nature (other than withholding taxes) imposed
on the Trust by the United States or any other taxing authority. Such payment
obligation includes any such costs, expenses or liabilities of the Trust that
are required by applicable law to be satisfied in connection with a dissolution
of the Trust.

      SECTION 4.7. Payments under Indenture or Pursuant to Direct Actions.

      Any amount payable hereunder to any Holder of Trust Preferred Securities
(or any Owner with respect thereto) shall be reduced by the amount of any
corresponding payment such Holder (or Owner) has directly received pursuant to
Section 6.3 of the Supplemental Indenture or Section 5.14 of this Trust
Agreement.

                                   ARTICLE V
                          TRUST SECURITIES CERTIFICATES

      SECTION 5.1. Initial Ownership.

      Upon the formation of the Trust and the contribution by the Sponsor
pursuant to Section 2.3 and until the issuance of the Trust Securities, and at
any time during which no Trust Securities are outstanding, the Sponsor shall be
the sole beneficial owner of the Trust.

                                       24

SECTION 5.2. The Trust Securities Certificates.

      The Trust Preferred Securities Certificates shall be issued in minimum
denominations of $1,000 Initial Liquidation Amount and integral multiples of
$1,000 in excess thereof, and the Common Securities Certificates shall be issued
in denominations of $1,000 Initial Liquidation Amount and integral multiples
thereof. The Trust Securities Certificates shall be executed on behalf of the
Trust by manual signature of at least one Administrative Trustee. Trust
Securities Certificates bearing the manual signatures of individuals who were,
at the time when such signatures shall have been affixed, authorized to sign on
behalf of the Trust or the Property Trustee shall be validly issued, fully paid
and nonassessable undivided beneficial interests in the assets of the Trust, and
entitled to the benefits of this Trust Agreement, notwithstanding that such
individuals or any of them shall have ceased to be so authorized prior to the
delivery of such Trust Securities Certificates or did not hold such offices at
the date of delivery of such Trust Securities Certificates. A transferee of a
Trust Securities Certificate shall become a Holder, and shall be entitled to the
rights and subject to the obligations of a Holder hereunder, upon due
registration of such Trust Securities Certificate in such transferee's name
pursuant to Sections 5.4, 5.11 or 5.13.

      SECTION 5.3. Execution, Authentication and Delivery of Trust Securities
Certificates.

      At the Time of Delivery, at least one of the Administrative Trustees shall
cause Trust Securities Certificates, in an aggregate Liquidation Amount as
provided in Sections 2.4 and 2.5, to be executed on behalf of the Trust and
delivered to or upon the written order of the Sponsor, such written order
executed by one Authorized Officer thereof, without further corporate action by
the Sponsor, in authorized denominations.

      From time to time, an Administrative may deliver Trust Securities
Certificates executed by an Administrative Trustee to the Property Trustee for
authentication, together with a written order executed by an Authorized Officer
of the sponsor for authentication of such Certificates. No Trust Securities
Certificate shall be entitled to any benefit under this Trust Agreement or be
valid or obligatory for any purpose unless there appears on such Trust
Securities Certificate a certificate of authentication substantially in the form
provided for herein executed by an authorized officer of the Property Trustee by
manual signature, and such certificate upon any Trust Securities Certificate
shall be conclusive evidence, and the only evidence, that such Trust Securities
Certificate has been duly authenticated and delivered hereunder.

      SECTION 5.4. Registration of Transfer and Exchange of Trust Preferred
Securities Certificates.

      The Sponsor shall keep or cause to be kept, at the office or agency
maintained pursuant to Section 5.8, a register or registers for the purpose of
registering Trust Securities Certificates and transfers and exchanges of Trust
Preferred Securities Certificates (the "Securities Register") in which the
registrar designated by the Sponsor (the "Securities Registrar"), subject to
such reasonable regulations as it may prescribe, shall provide for the
registration of Trust Preferred Securities Certificates and Common Securities
Certificates (subject to Section 5.10 in the case of the Common Securities
Certificates) and registration of transfers and exchanges of Trust

                                       25

Preferred Securities Certificates as herein provided. J.P. Morgan Trust Company,
National Association shall be the initial Securities Registrar. The provisions
of Sections 8.1, 8.3 and 8.6 herein shall apply to the Property Trustee also in
its role as Securities Registrar, for so long as the Property Trustee shall act
as Securities Registrar.

      Upon surrender for registration of transfer of any Trust Preferred
Securities Certificate at the office or agency maintained pursuant to Section
5.8, the Administrative Trustees or any one of them shall execute on behalf of
the Trust and deliver, in the name of the designated transferee or transferees,
one or more new Trust Preferred Securities Certificates in authorized
denominations of a like aggregate Initial Liquidation Amount dated the date of
execution by such Administrative Trustee or Trustees. The Securities Registrar
shall not be required to register the transfer of any Trust Preferred Securities
that have been called for redemption during a period beginning at the opening of
business 15 days before the day of selection for such redemption. At the option
of a Holder, Trust Preferred Securities Certificates may be exchanged for other
Trust Preferred Securities Certificates in authorized denominations of the same
class and of a like aggregate Initial Liquidation Amount upon surrender of the
Trust Preferred Securities Certificates to be exchanged at the office or agency
maintained pursuant to Section 5.8.

      Every Trust Preferred Securities Certificate presented or surrendered for
registration of transfer or exchange shall be accompanied by a written
instrument of transfer in form satisfactory to an Administrative Trustee and the
Securities Registrar duly executed by the Holder or his attorney duly authorized
in writing. Each Trust Preferred Securities Certificate surrendered for
registration of transfer or exchange shall be canceled and subsequently disposed
of by an Administrative Trustee in accordance with such Person's customary
practice.

      No service charge shall be made for any registration of transfer or
exchange of Trust Preferred Securities Certificates, but the Securities
Registrar may require payment of a sum sufficient to cover any tax or
governmental charge that may be imposed in connection with any transfer or
exchange of Trust Preferred Securities Certificates.

      SECTION 5.5. Mutilated, Destroyed, Lost or Stolen Trust Securities
Certificates.

      If (a) any mutilated Trust Securities Certificate shall be surrendered to
the Securities Registrar, or if the Securities Registrar shall receive evidence
to its satisfaction of the destruction, loss or theft of any Trust Securities
Certificate, and (b) there shall be delivered to the Securities Registrar and
the Administrative Trustees such security or indemnity as may be required by
them to save each of them harmless, then in the absence of notice that such
Trust Securities Certificate shall have been acquired by a bona fide purchaser,
the Administrative Trustees, or any one of them, on behalf of the Trust shall
execute and make available for delivery, in exchange for or in lieu of any such
mutilated, destroyed, lost or stolen Trust Securities Certificate, a new Trust
Securities Certificate of like class, tenor and denomination. In connection with
the issuance of any new Trust Securities Certificate under this Section 5.5, the
Administrative Trustees or the Securities Registrar may require the payment of a
sum sufficient to cover any tax or other governmental charge that may be imposed
in connection therewith. Any duplicate Trust Securities Certificate issued
pursuant to this Section shall constitute conclusive evidence of an undivided
beneficial interest in the assets of the Trust corresponding to

                                       26

that evidenced by the lost, stolen or destroyed Trust Securities Certificate, as
if originally issued, whether or not the lost, stolen or destroyed Trust
Securities Certificate shall be found at any time.

      SECTION 5.6. Persons Deemed Holders.

      The Trustees and the Securities Registrar shall each treat the Person in
whose name any Trust Securities Certificate shall be registered in the
Securities Register as the owner of such Trust Securities Certificate for the
purpose of receiving Distributions and for all other purposes whatsoever, and
none of the Trustees, the Administrative Trustees and the Securities Registrar
shall be bound by any notice to the contrary.

      SECTION 5.7. Access to List of Holders' Names and Addresses.

      Each Holder and each Owner shall be deemed to have agreed not to hold the
Sponsor, the Property Trustee, the Delaware Trustee or the Administrative
Trustees accountable by reason of the disclosure of its name and address,
regardless of the source from which such information was derived.

      SECTION 5.8. Maintenance of Office Agency.

      The Administrative Trustees shall designate an office or offices or agency
or agencies where Trust Preferred Securities Certificates may be surrendered for
registration of transfer or exchange and where notices and demands to or upon
the Trustees in respect of the Trust Securities Certificates may be served. The
Administrative Trustees initially designate J.P. Morgan Trust Company, National
Association, Attention: Worldwide Securities Services, as their office and
agency for such purposes. An Administrative Trustee shall give prompt written
notice to the Sponsor, the Property Trustees and to the Holders of any change in
the location of the Securities Register or any such office or agency.

      SECTION 5.9. Appointment of Paying Agent.

      The Paying Agent shall make Distributions to Holders from the Payment
Account and shall report the amounts of such Distributions to the Property
Trustee and the Administrative Trustees. Any Paying Agent shall have the
revocable power to withdraw funds from the Payment Account solely for the
purpose of making the Distributions referred to above. The Property Trustee may
revoke such power and remove the Paying Agent in its sole discretion. The Paying
Agent shall initially be J.P. Morgan Trust Company, National Association. Any
Person acting as Paying Agent shall be permitted to resign as Paying Agent upon
30 days' written notice to the Administrative Trustees and the Property Trustee.
If the Property Trustee shall no longer be the Paying Agent or a successor
Paying Agent shall resign or its authority to act be revoked, the Administrative
Trustees shall appoint a successor (which shall be a bank or trust company) that
is reasonably acceptable to the Sponsor to act as Paying Agent. Such successor
Paying Agent or any additional Paying Agent shall execute and deliver to the
Trustees an instrument in which such successor Paying Agent or additional Paying
Agent shall agree with the Trustees that as Paying Agent, such successor Paying
Agent or additional Paying Agent will hold all sums, if any, held by it for
payment to the Holders in trust for the benefit of the Holders entitled thereto
until such sums shall be paid to such Holders. The Paying Agent shall return all
unclaimed funds to the Property Trustee and upon removal of a Paying Agent such
Paying Agent

                                       27

shall also return all funds in its possession to the Property Trustee. The
provisions of Sections 8.1, 8.3 and 8.6 herein shall apply to the Property
Trustee also in its role as Paying Agent, for so long as the Property Trustee
shall act as Paying Agent and, to the extent applicable, to any other paying
agent appointed hereunder. Any reference in this Agreement to the Paying Agent
shall include any co-paying agent unless the context requires otherwise.

      SECTION 5.10. Ownership of Common Securities by Sponsor.

      At the Time of Delivery, the Sponsor shall acquire beneficial and record
ownership of the Common Securities. To the fullest extent permitted by law,
other than a transfer in connection with a consolidation or merger of the
Sponsor into another Person, or any conveyance, transfer or lease by the Sponsor
of its properties and assets substantially as an entirety to any Person pursuant
to Section 10.01 of the Base Indenture, any attempted transfer of the Common
Securities other than to a direct or indirect subsidiary of the Sponsor shall be
void. The Administrative Trustees shall cause each Common Securities Certificate
issued to the Sponsor to contain a legend consistent with this Section 5.10.

      SECTION 5.11. Book-Entry Trust Preferred Securities Certificates; Common
Securities Certificate.

            (a) Trust Preferred Securities Certificates that are no longer a
      component of Normal Common Equity Units and are released from the
      Collateral Account (as defined in the Pledge Agreement), will be issued in
      the form of a typewritten Trust Preferred Securities Certificate or
      Certificates representing Book-Entry Trust Preferred Securities
      Certificates, to be delivered to, or on behalf of, DTC, the initial
      Clearing Agency, by, or on behalf of, the Trust. Such Trust Preferred
      Securities Certificate or Certificates shall initially be registered on
      the Securities Register in the name of Cede & Co., the nominee of the
      initial Clearing Agency, and no Owner will receive a Definitive Trust
      Preferred Securities Certificate representing such Owner's interest in
      such Trust Preferred Securities, except as provided in Section 5.13.
      Except where Definitive Trust Preferred Securities Certificates have been
      issued to the Securities Intermediary or to Owners pursuant to Section
      5.13:

                  (i) the provisions of this Section 5.11(a) shall be in full
            force and effect;

                  (ii) the Securities Registrar and the Trustees shall be
            entitled to deal with the Clearing Agency for all purposes of this
            Trust Agreement relating to the Book-Entry Trust Preferred
            Securities Certificates (including the payment of the Liquidation
            Amount of and Distributions on the Trust Preferred Securities
            evidenced by Book-Entry Trust Preferred Securities Certificates and
            the giving of instructions or directions to Owners of Trust
            Preferred Securities evidenced by Book-Entry Trust Preferred
            Securities Certificates) as the sole Holder of Trust Preferred
            Securities evidenced by Book-Entry Trust Preferred Securities
            Certificates and shall have no obligations to the Owners thereof;

                                       28

(iii) to the extent that the provisions of this Section 5.11
            conflict with any other provisions of this Trust Agreement, the
            provisions of this Section 5.11 shall control; and

                  (iv) the rights of the Owners of the Book-Entry Trust
            Preferred Securities Certificate shall be exercised only through the
            Clearing Agency and shall be limited to those established by law and
            agreements between such Owners and the Clearing Agency and/or the
            Clearing Agency Participants. Pursuant to the Certificate Depository
            Agreement, unless and until Definitive Trust Preferred Securities
            Certificates are issued pursuant to Section 5.13, the initial
            Clearing Agency will make book-entry transfers among the Clearing
            Agency Participants and receive and transmit payments on the Trust
            Preferred Securities to such Clearing Agency Participants.

            (b) A single Common Securities Certificate representing the Common
      Securities shall be issued to the Sponsor in the form of a definitive
      Common Securities Certificate.

      SECTION 5.12. Notices to Clearing Agency.

      To the extent that a notice or other communication to the Holders is
required under this Trust Agreement, for so long as Trust Preferred Securities
are represented by a Book-Entry Trust Preferred Securities Certificates, the
Trustee shall give all such notices and communications specified herein to be
given to the Clearing Agency, and shall have no obligations to the Owners.

      SECTION 5.13. Definitive Trust Preferred Securities Certificates.

      The Trust Preferred Securities Certificates issued at the Time of Delivery
and upon the underwriters' exercise of their over-allotment option, as
contemplated by Section 2.4, shall be issued as Definitive Trust Preferred
Securities Certificates in accordance with Section 2.4. Additionally, if (a) the
Sponsor advises the Trustees in writing that the Clearing Agency is no longer
willing or able to properly discharge its responsibilities with respect to the
Trust Preferred Securities Certificates, and the Sponsor is unable to locate a
qualified successor, (b) the Sponsor at its option advises the Trustees in
writing that it elects to terminate the book-entry system through the Clearing
Agency or (c) after the occurrence of a Debenture Event of Default, Owners of
Trust Preferred Securities Certificates representing beneficial interests
aggregating at least a Majority in Accreted Liquidation Amount of the Trust
Preferred Securities advise the Administrative Trustees in writing that the
continuation of a book-entry system through the Clearing Agency is no longer in
the best interest of the Owners of Trust Preferred Securities Certificates, then
the Administrative Trustees shall notify the other Trustees and the Clearing
Agency, and the Clearing Agency, in accordance with its customary rules and
procedures, shall notify all Clearing Agency Participants for whom it holds
Trust Preferred Securities of the occurrence of any such event and of the
availability of the Definitive Trust Preferred Securities Certificates to Owners
of such class or classes, as applicable, requesting the same. Upon surrender to
the Administrative Trustees of the typewritten Trust Preferred Securities
Certificate or Certificates representing the Book-Entry Trust Preferred
Securities Certificates by the Clearing Agency, accompanied by registration
instructions, the Administrative Trustees, or any

                                       29

one of them, shall execute the Definitive Trust Preferred Securities
Certificates in accordance with the instructions of the Clearing Agency. Neither
the Securities Registrar nor the Trustees shall be liable for any delay in
delivery of such instructions and may conclusively rely on, and shall be
protected in relying on, such instructions. Upon the issuance of Definitive
Trust Preferred Securities Certificates, the Trustees shall recognize the
Holders of the Definitive Trust Preferred Securities Certificates as holders of
Trust Securities. The Definitive Trust Preferred Securities Certificates shall
be typewritten, printed, lithographed or engraved or may be produced in any
other manner as is reasonably acceptable to the Administrative Trustees that
meets the requirements of any stock exchange or automated quotation system on
which the Trust Preferred Securities are then listed or approved for trading, as
evidenced by the execution thereof by the Administrative Trustees or any one of
them.

      SECTION 5.14. Rights of Holders; Waivers of Past Defaults.

            (a) The legal title to the Trust Property is vested exclusively in
      the Property Trustee (in its capacity as such) in accordance with Section
      2.9, and the Holders shall not have any right or title therein other than
      the undivided beneficial interest in the assets of the Trust conferred by
      their Trust Securities and they shall have no right to call for any
      partition or division of property, profits or rights of the Trust except
      as described below. The Trust Securities shall be personal property giving
      only the rights specifically set forth therein and in this Trust
      Agreement. The Trust Preferred Securities shall have no preemptive or
      similar rights and when issued and delivered to Holders against payment of
      the purchase price therefor will be fully paid and nonassessable undivided
      beneficial interests in the assets of the Trust. The Holders of the Trust
      Securities, in their capacities as such, shall be entitled to the same
      limitation of personal liability extended to stockholders of private
      corporations for profit organized under the General Corporation Law of the
      State of Delaware.

            (b) For so long as any Trust Preferred Securities remain
      Outstanding, if, upon a Debenture Event of Default, the Debenture Trustee
      fails or the holders of not less than 25% in aggregate principal amount of
      the outstanding Debentures fail to declare the principal of all of the
      Debentures to be immediately due and payable, the Property Trustee or the
      Holders of at least 25% in Accreted Liquidation Amount of the Trust
      Preferred Securities then Outstanding shall have the right to make such
      declaration by a notice in writing to the Sponsor, the Debenture Trustee
      and the Property Trustee, in the case of notice by the Holders of the
      Trust Preferred Securities, or to the Sponsor, the Debenture Trustee and
      the Holders of the Trust Preferred Securities, in the case of notice by
      the Property Trustee, and upon any such declaration such principal amount
      of and the accrued interest on all of the Debentures shall become
      immediately due and payable, provided that the payment of principal and
      interest on such Debentures shall remain subordinated to the extent
      provided in the Indenture.

      At any time after a declaration of acceleration with respect to the
Debentures has been made and before a judgment or decree for payment of the
money due has been obtained by the Debenture Trustee as in the Indenture
provided, the Holders of at least a Majority in Accreted Liquidation Amount of
the Trust Preferred Securities, by written notice to the Property Trustee,

                                       30

the Sponsor and the Debenture Trustee, may rescind and annul such declaration
and its consequences if:

                  (i) the Sponsor has paid or deposited with the Debenture
            Trustee a sum sufficient to pay

            (A) all overdue installments of interest on all of the Debentures,

            (B) any accrued Additional Interest (as defined in the Indenture) on
      all of the Debentures,

            (C) the principal of (and premium, if any, on) any Debentures that
      have become due otherwise than by such declaration of acceleration and
      interest and Additional Interest (as defined in the Indenture) thereon at
      the rate borne by the Debentures, and

            (D) all sums paid or advanced by the Debenture Trustee under the
      Indenture and all amounts due to the Debenture Trustee under Section 7.06
      of the Base Indenture and to the Property Trustee under Section 8.6
      hereof; and

                  (ii) all Events of Default with respect to the Debentures,
            other than the non-payment of the principal of the Debentures that
            has become due solely by such acceleration, have been cured or
            waived as provided in Section 6.08 of the Base Indenture.

      The Holders of at least a Majority in Accreted Liquidation Amount of the
Trust Preferred Securities may, on behalf of the Holders of all the Trust
Preferred Securities, waive any past default under the Indenture, except a
default in the payment of principal or interest (unless such default has been
cured and a sum sufficient to pay all matured installments of interest and
principal due otherwise than by acceleration has been deposited with the
Debenture Trustee) or a default in respect of a covenant or provision that under
the Indenture cannot be modified or amended without the consent of the holder of
each outstanding Debenture. No such rescission shall affect any subsequent
default or impair any right consequent thereon.

      Upon receipt by the Property Trustee of written notice declaring such an
acceleration, or rescission and annulment thereof, by Holders of any part of the
Trust Preferred Securities a record date shall be established for determining
Holders of Outstanding Trust Preferred Securities entitled to join in such
notice, which record date shall be at the close of business on the day the
Property Trustee receives such notice. The Holders on such record date, or their
duly designated proxies, and only such Persons, shall be entitled to join in
such notice, whether or not such Holders remain Holders after such record date;
provided that, unless such declaration of acceleration, or rescission and
annulment, as the case may be, shall have become effective by virtue of the
requisite percentage having joined in such notice prior to the day that is 90
days after such record date, such notice of declaration of acceleration, or
rescission and annulment, as the case may be, shall automatically and without
further action by any Holder be canceled and of no further effect. Nothing in
this paragraph shall prevent a Holder, or a proxy of a Holder, from giving,
after expiration of such 90-day period, a new written notice of declaration of
acceleration, or rescission and annulment thereof, as the case may be, that is
identical to a written

                                       31

notice that has been canceled pursuant to the proviso to the preceding sentence,
in which event a new record date shall be established pursuant to the provisions
of this Section 5.14(b).

            (c) For so long as any Trust Preferred Securities remain
      Outstanding, to the fullest extent permitted by law and subject to the
      terms of this Trust Agreement and the Indenture, upon a Debenture Event of
      Default specified in Section 6.1(a)(1) or 6.1(a)(2) of the Supplemental
      Indenture, any Holder of Trust Preferred Securities shall have the right
      to institute a proceeding directly against the Sponsor, pursuant to
      Section 6.02 of the Base Indenture, for enforcement of payment to such
      Holder of any amounts payable in respect of a Like Amount of Debentures (a
      "Direct Action"). Except as set forth in Section 5.14(b) and this Section
      5.14(c), the Holders of Trust Preferred Securities shall have no right to
      exercise directly any right or remedy available to the holders of, or in
      respect of, the Debentures.

            (d) Except as otherwise provided in paragraphs (a), (b) and (c) of
      this Section 5.14, the Holders of at least a Majority in Accreted
      Liquidation Amount of the Trust Preferred Securities may, on behalf of the
      Holders of all the Trust Preferred Securities, waive any past default or
      Event of Default and its consequences. Upon such waiver, any such default
      or Event of Default shall cease to exist, and any default or Event of
      Default arising there from shall be deemed to have been cured, for every
      purpose of this Trust Agreement, but no such waiver shall extend to any
      subsequent or other default or Event of Default or impair any right
      consequent thereon.

      SECTION 5.15. CUSIP Numbers.

      The Administrative Trustees in issuing the Trust Preferred Securities may
use "CUSIP" numbers (if then generally in use), and, if so, the Property Trustee
shall use "CUSIP" numbers in notices of redemption as a convenience to Holders;
provided that any such notice may state that no representation is made as to the
correctness of such numbers either as printed on the Trust Preferred Securities
or as contained in any notice of a redemption and that reliance may be placed
only on the other identification numbers printed on the Trust Preferred
Securities, and any such redemption shall not be affected by any defect in or
omission of such numbers. The Administrative Trustees will promptly notify the
Property Trustee of any change in the CUSIP numbers.

      SECTION 5.16. Cancellation.

      All Trust Securities Certificates surrendered upon the transfer of Trust
Preferred Securities or for delivery of Trust Preferred Securities or Treasury
Securities, as the case may be, after the occurrence of a Termination Event or
pursuant to a Cash Settlement, an Early Settlement or a Cash Merger Early
Settlement, or upon the registration of transfer or exchange of a Common Equity
Unit, or a Collateral Substitution or the recreation of a Normal Common Equity
Unit shall, if surrendered to any Person other than the Property Trustee, be
delivered to the Property Trustee along with appropriate written instructions
regarding the cancellation thereof and, if not already cancelled, shall be
promptly cancelled by it. No Trust Securities Certificates shall be
authenticated, executed and delivered in lieu of or in exchange for any Trust
Securities Certificates cancelled as provided in this Section, except as
expressly permitted by this

                                       32

Trust Agreement. All cancelled Trust Securities Certificates held by the
Property Trustee shall be disposed of in accordance with its customary
practices.

                                   ARTICLE VI
                        ACTS OF HOLDERS; MEETINGS; VOTING

      SECTION 6.1. Limitations on Voting Rights.

            (a) Except as expressly provided in this Trust Agreement and in the
      Indenture and as otherwise required by law, no Holder of Trust Preferred
      Securities shall have any right to vote or in any manner otherwise control
      the administration, operation and management of the Trust or the
      obligations of the parties hereto, nor shall anything herein set forth, or
      contained in the terms of the Trust Securities Certificates, be construed
      so as to constitute the Holders from time to time as partners or members
      of an association.

            (b) So long as any Debentures are held by the Property Trustee on
      behalf of the Trust, the Trustees shall not (i) direct the time, method
      and place of conducting any proceeding for any remedy available to the
      Debenture Trustee, or execute any trust or power conferred on the
      Debenture Trustee with respect to the Debentures, (ii) waive any past
      default that may be waived under Section 6.08 of the Base Indenture, (iii)
      exercise any right to rescind or annul a declaration that the principal of
      all the Debentures shall be due and payable, or (iv) consent to any
      amendment, modification or termination of the Indenture or the Debentures,
      where such consent shall be required, without, in each case, obtaining the
      prior approval of the Holders of at least a Majority in Accreted
      Liquidation Amount of the Trust Preferred Securities; provided, however,
      that where a consent under the Indenture would require the consent of each
      holder of Debentures affected thereby, no such consent shall be given by
      the Property Trustee without the prior written consent of each Holder of
      Trust Preferred Securities. The Property Trustee shall not revoke any
      action previously authorized or approved by a vote of the Holders of the
      Trust Preferred Securities, except by a subsequent vote of the Holders of
      the Trust Preferred Securities. The Property Trustee shall notify all
      Holders of the Trust Preferred Securities of any notice of default
      received with respect to the Debentures. In addition to obtaining the
      foregoing approvals of the Holders of the Trust Preferred Securities,
      prior to taking any of the foregoing actions, the Trustees shall, at the
      expense of the Sponsor, obtain an Opinion of Counsel experienced in such
      matters to the effect that such action shall not cause the Trust to be
      taxable as a corporation or classified as other than a grantor trust for
      United States Federal income tax purposes.

      SECTION 6.2. Notice of Meetings.

      Notice of all meetings of the Holders of the Trust Preferred Securities,
stating the time, place and purpose of the meeting, shall be given by the
Property Trustee pursuant to Section 12.8 to each Holder of Trust Preferred
Securities, at such Holder's registered address, at least 15 days and not more
than 90 days before the meeting. At any such meeting, any business properly
before the meeting may be so considered whether or not stated in the notice of
the meeting. Any adjourned meeting may be held as adjourned without further
notice.

                                       33

SECTION 6.3. Meetings of Holders of the Trust Preferred Securities.

      No annual meeting of Holders is required to be held. The Property Trustee,
however, shall call a meeting of the Holders of the Trust Preferred Securities
to vote on any matter upon the written request of the Holders of at least 25% in
aggregate Accreted Liquidation Amount of the Outstanding Trust Preferred
Securities and the Administrative Trustees or the Property Trustee may, at any
time in their discretion, call a meeting of the Holders of the Trust Preferred
Securities to vote on any matters as to which such Holders are entitled to vote.

      The Holders of at least a Majority in Accreted Liquidation Amount of the
Trust Preferred Securities, present in person or by proxy, shall constitute a
quorum at any meeting of the Holders of the Trust Preferred Securities.

      If a quorum is present at a meeting, an affirmative vote by the Holders
present, in person or by proxy, holding Trust Preferred Securities representing
at least a Majority in Accreted Liquidation Amount of the Trust Preferred
Securities held by the Holders present, either in person or by proxy, at such
meeting shall constitute the action of the Holders of the Trust Preferred
Securities, unless this Trust Agreement requires a greater number of affirmative
votes.

      SECTION 6.4. Voting Rights.

      Holders shall be entitled to one vote for each $1,000 of Initial
Liquidation Amount represented by their Outstanding Trust Securities in respect
of any matter as to which such Holders are entitled to vote.

      SECTION 6.5. Proxies.

      At any meeting of Holders, any Holder entitled to vote there at may vote
by proxy, provided that no proxy shall be voted at any meeting unless it shall
have been placed on file with the Administrative Trustees, or with such other
officer or agent of the Trust as the Administrative Trustees may direct, for
verification prior to the time at which such vote shall be taken. Pursuant to a
resolution of the Administrative Trustees, proxies may be solicited in the name
of the Administrative Trustees or one or more officers of the Administrative
Trustees. Only Holders of record shall be entitled to vote. When Trust
Securities are held jointly by several persons, any one of them may vote at any
meeting in person or by proxy in respect of such Trust Securities, but if more
than one of them shall be present at such meeting in person or by proxy, and
such joint owners or their proxies so present disagree as to any vote to be
cast, such vote shall not be received in respect of such Trust Securities. A
proxy purporting to be executed by or on behalf of a Holder shall be deemed
valid unless challenged at or prior to its exercise, and the burden of proving
invalidity shall rest on the challenger. No proxy shall be valid more than three
years after its date of execution.

      SECTION 6.6. Holder Action by Written Consent.

      Any action that may be taken by Holders at a meeting may be taken without
a meeting if Holders holding at least a Majority in Accreted Liquidation Amount
of all Trust Preferred Securities entitled to vote in respect of such action (or
such larger proportion thereof as shall be required by any other provision of
this Trust Agreement) shall consent to the action in writing.

                                       34

SECTION 6.7. Record Date for Voting and Other Purposes.

      For the purposes of determining the Holders who are entitled to notice of
and to vote at any meeting or by written consent, or to participate in any
Distribution on the Trust Securities in respect of which a record date is not
otherwise provided for in this Trust Agreement, or for the purpose of any other
action, the Administrative Trustees may from time to time fix a date, not more
than 90 days prior to the date of any meeting of Holders or the payment of a
Distribution or other action, as the case may be, as a record date for the
determination of the identity of the Holders of record for such purposes.

      SECTION 6.8. Acts of Holders.

      Any request, demand, authorization, direction, notice, consent, waiver or
other action provided or permitted by this Trust Agreement to be given, made or
taken by Holders may be embodied in and evidenced by one or more instruments of
substantially similar tenor signed by such Holders in person or by an agent duly
appointed in writing; and, except as otherwise expressly provided herein, such
action shall become effective when such instrument or instruments are delivered
to the Property Trustee. Such instrument or instruments (and the action embodied
therein and evidenced thereby) are herein sometimes referred to as the "Act" of
the Holders signing such instrument or instruments. Proof of execution of any
such instrument or of a writing appointing any such agent shall be sufficient
for any purpose of this Trust Agreement and (subject to Section 8.1) conclusive
in favor of the Trustees, if made in the manner provided in this Section.

      The fact and date of the execution by any Person of any such instrument or
writing may be proved by the affidavit of a witness of such execution or by a
certificate of a notary public or other officer authorized by law to take
acknowledgments of deeds, certifying that the individual signing such instrument
or writing acknowledged to him the execution thereof. Where such execution is by
a signer acting in a capacity other than his individual capacity, such
certificate or affidavit shall also constitute sufficient proof of his
authority. The fact and date of the execution of any such instrument or writing,
or the authority of the Person executing the same, may also be proved in any
other manner that any Trustee receiving the same deems sufficient.

      The ownership of Trust Securities shall be proved by the Securities
Register. Any request, demand, authorization, direction, notice, consent, waiver
or other Act of the Holder of any Trust Security shall bind every future Holder
of the same Trust Security and the Holder of every Trust Security issued upon
the registration of transfer thereof or in exchange therefor or in lieu thereof
in respect of anything done, omitted or suffered to be done by the Trustees, or
the Trust in reliance thereon, whether or not notation of such action is made
upon such Trust Security.

      Without limiting the foregoing, a Holder entitled hereunder to take any
action hereunder with regard to any particular Trust Security may do so with
regard to all or any part of the Accreted Liquidation Amount of such Trust
Security or by one or more duly appointed agents each of which may do so
pursuant to such appointment with regard to all or any part of such Accreted
Liquidation Amount.

                                       35

If any dispute shall arise between the Holders and the Trustees or among
the Holders or the Trustees with respect to the authenticity, validity or
binding nature of any request, demand, authorization, direction, consent, waiver
or other Act of such Holder or Trustee under this Article VI, then the
determination of such matter by the Property Trustee shall be conclusive with
respect to such matter.

      A Holder may institute a legal proceeding directly against the Sponsor
under the Guarantee to enforce its rights under the Guarantee without first
instituting a legal proceeding against the Guarantee Trustee (as defined in the
Guarantee), the Trust, any Trustee, or any Person or entity.

      SECTION 6.9. Inspection of Records.

      Upon reasonable notice to the Administrative Trustees and the Property
Trustee, the records of the Trust shall be open to inspection by Holders during
normal business hours for any purpose reasonably related to such Holder's
interest as a Holder.

      SECTION 6.10. Action With Respect to the Debenture.

      So long as the Debentures are held by the Property Trustee on behalf of
the Trust, with respect to any waiver, amendment or similar action that requires
the consent of the Holders of the Debentures under the Indenture, the Property
Trustee shall act at the written direction of the Holders of a Majority in
Accreted Liquidation Amount of the Trust Preferred Securities (unless a
different percentage of Holders shall be specified in the Indenture with respect
to such action).

                                  ARTICLE VII
                         REPRESENTATIONS AND WARRANTIES

      SECTION 7.1. Representations and Warranties of the Property Trustee and
the Delaware Trustee.

      The Property Trustee and the Delaware Trustee, each severally on behalf of
and as to itself, hereby represents and warrants for the benefit of the Sponsor
and the Holders that:

            (a) the Property Trustee is a national banking association, duly
      organized, validly existing and in good standing under the laws of the
      United States of America;

            (b) the Property Trustee has full corporate power, authority and
      legal right to execute, deliver and perform its obligations under this
      Trust Agreement and has taken all necessary action to authorize the
      execution, delivery and performance by it of this Trust Agreement;

            (c) the Delaware Trustee is a national banking association, duly
      organized, validly existing and in good standing under the federal laws of
      the United States of America.

            (d) the Delaware Trustee has full corporate power, authority and
      legal right to execute, deliver and perform its obligations under this
      Trust Agreement and has taken all

                                       36

necessary action to authorize the execution, delivery and performance by
      it of this Trust Agreement;

            (e) this Trust Agreement has been duly authorized, executed and
      delivered by the Property Trustee and the Delaware Trustee and constitutes
      the valid and legally binding agreement of each of the Property Trustee
      and the Delaware Trustee enforceable against each of them in accordance
      with its terms, subject to bankruptcy, insolvency, fraudulent transfer,
      reorganization, moratorium and similar laws of general applicability
      relating to or affecting creditors' rights and to general equity
      principles;

            (f) the execution, delivery and performance of this Trust Agreement
      have been duly authorized by all necessary corporate or other action on
      the part of the Property Trustee and the Delaware Trustee and do not
      require any approval of stockholders of the Property Trustee and the
      Delaware Trustee and such execution, delivery and performance will not (i)
      violate the articles of association or by-laws of the Property Trustee or
      the Delaware Trustee, (ii) violate any provision of, or constitute, with
      or without notice or lapse of time, a default under, or result in the
      creation or imposition of, any Lien on any properties included in the
      Trust Property pursuant to the provisions of, any indenture, mortgage,
      credit agreement, license or other agreement or instrument to which the
      Property Trustee or the Delaware Trustee is a party or by which it is
      bound, or (iii) violate any law, governmental rule or regulation of the
      State of New York or the State of Delaware, as the case may be, governing
      the banking, trust or general powers of the Property Trustee or the
      Delaware Trustee (as appropriate in context) or any order, judgment or
      decree applicable to the Property Trustee or the Delaware Trustee;

            (g) neither the authorization, execution or delivery by the Property
      Trustee or the Delaware Trustee of this Trust Agreement nor the
      consummation of any of the transactions by the Property Trustee or the
      Delaware Trustee (as the case may be) contemplated herein requires the
      consent or approval of, the giving of notice to, the registration with or
      the taking of any other action with respect to any governmental authority
      or agency under any existing law of the State of New York or the State of
      Delaware, governing the [banking], trust or general powers of the Property
      Trustee or the Delaware Trustee (as appropriate in context), other than
      the filing of the Certificate of Trust with the Delaware Secretary of
      State; and

            (h) to the best of each of the Property Trustee's and the Delaware
      Trustee's knowledge, there are no proceedings pending or threatened
      against or affecting the Property Trustee or the Delaware Trustee in any
      court or before any governmental authority, agency or arbitration board or
      tribunal that, individually or in the aggregate, would materially and
      adversely affect the Trust or would question the right, power and
      authority of the Property Trustee or the Delaware Trustee, as the case may
      be, to enter into or perform its obligations as one of the Trustees under
      this Trust Agreement.

      SECTION 7.2. Representations and Warranties of Sponsor.

      The Sponsor hereby represents and warrants for the benefit of the Holders
that:

                                       37

(a) the Trust Securities Certificates issued at the Time of Delivery
      on behalf of the Trust have been duly authorized and will have been duly
      and validly executed, issued and delivered by the Administrative Trustees
      pursuant to the terms and provisions of, and in accordance with the
      requirements of, this Trust Agreement, and the Holders will be, as of such
      date, entitled to the benefits of this Trust Agreement; and

            (b) there are no taxes, fees or other governmental charges payable
      by the Trust (or the Trustees on behalf of the Trust) under the laws of
      the State of Delaware or any political subdivision thereof in connection
      with the execution, delivery and performance by any Trustee of this Trust
      Agreement.

                                  ARTICLE VIII
                                  THE TRUSTEES

      SECTION 8.1. Certain Duties and Responsibilities.

            (a) The duties and responsibilities of the Trustees shall be as
      provided by this Trust Agreement, subject to Section 12.10 hereof with
      respect to the Property Trustee. Notwithstanding the foregoing, no
      provision of this Trust Agreement shall require any of the Trustees to
      expend or risk its or their own funds or otherwise incur any financial
      liability in the performance of any of its or their duties hereunder, or
      in the exercise of any of its or their rights or powers, if it or they
      shall have reasonable grounds for believing that repayment of such funds
      or adequate indemnity against such risk or liability is not reasonably
      assured to it. Whether or not therein expressly so provided, every
      provision of this Trust Agreement relating to the conduct or affecting the
      liability of or affording protection to the Trustees shall be subject to
      the provisions of this Section 8.1. To the extent that, at law or in
      equity, an Administrative Trustee or the Delaware Trustee has duties and
      liabilities relating to the Trust or to the Holders, such Administrative
      Trustee or the Delaware Trustee shall not be liable to the Trust or to any
      Holder for such Administrative Trustee's or Delaware Trustee's good faith
      reliance on the provisions of this Trust Agreement. The provisions of this
      Trust Agreement, to the extent that they restrict the duties and
      liabilities of the Administrative Trustees or the Delaware Trustee
      otherwise existing at law or in equity, are agreed by the Sponsor and the
      Holders to replace such other duties and liabilities of the Administrative
      Trustees or the Delaware Trustee.

            (b) All payments made by the Property Trustee or a Paying Agent in
      respect of the Trust Securities shall be made only from the revenue and
      proceeds from the Trust Property and only to the extent that there shall
      be sufficient revenue or proceeds from the Trust Property to enable the
      Property Trustee or a Paying Agent to make payments in accordance with the
      terms hereof. Each Holder, by its acceptance of a Trust Security, agrees
      that it will look solely to the revenue and proceeds from the Trust
      Property to the extent legally available for distribution to it as herein
      provided and that the Trustees are not personally liable to such Holder
      for any amount distributable in respect of any Trust Security or for any
      other liability in respect of any Trust Security. This Section 8.1(b) does
      not limit the liability of the Trustees expressly set forth elsewhere in
      this Trust Agreement or, in the case of the Property Trustee, in the Trust
      Indenture Act.

                                       38

(c) If an Event of Default has occurred and is continuing, the
      Property Trustee shall enforce this Trust Agreement for the benefit of the
      Holders.

            (d) The Property Trustee, before the occurrence of any Event of
      Default and after the curing of all Events of Default that may have
      occurred, shall undertake to perform only such duties as are specifically
      set forth in this Trust Agreement (including pursuant to Section 12.10),
      and no implied covenants shall be read into this Trust Agreement against
      the Property Trustee. If an Event of Default has occurred (that has not
      been cured or waived pursuant to Section 5.14), the Property Trustee shall
      exercise such of the rights and powers vested in it by this Trust
      Agreement, and use the same degree of care and skill in its exercise
      thereof, as a prudent person would exercise or use under the circumstances
      in the conduct of his or her own affairs.

            (e) No provision of this Trust Agreement shall be construed to
      relieve the Property Trustee from liability for its own negligent action,
      its own negligent failure to act, or its own willful misconduct, except
      that:

                  (i) prior to the occurrence of any Event of Default and after
            the curing or waiving of all such Events of Default that may have
            occurred:

            (A) the duties and obligations of the Property Trustee shall be
      determined solely by the express provisions of this Trust Agreement
      (including pursuant to Section 12.10), and the Property Trustee shall not
      be liable except for the performance of such duties and obligations as are
      specifically set forth in this Trust Agreement (including pursuant to
      Section 12.10); and

            (B) in the absence of bad faith on the part of the Property Trustee,
      the Property Trustee may conclusively rely, as to the truth of the
      statements and the correctness of the opinions expressed therein, upon any
      certificates or opinions furnished to the Property Trustee and conforming
      to the requirements of this Trust Agreement; but in the case of any such
      certificates or opinions that by any provision hereof or of the Trust
      Indenture Act are specifically required to be furnished to the Property
      Trustee, the Property Trustee shall be under a duty to examine the same to
      determine whether or not they conform to the requirements of this Trust
      Agreement;

                  (ii) the Property Trustee shall not be liable for any error of
            judgment made in good faith by an authorized officer of the Property
            Trustee, unless it shall be proved that the Property Trustee was
            negligent in ascertaining the pertinent facts;

                  (iii) the Property Trustee shall not be liable with respect to
            any action taken or omitted to be taken by it in good faith in
            accordance with the direction of the Holders of at least a Majority
            in Accreted Liquidation Amount of the Trust Preferred Securities
            relating to the time, method and place of conducting any proceeding
            for any remedy available to the Property Trustee, or exercising any
            trust or power conferred upon the Property Trustee under this Trust
            Agreement;

                  (iv) the Property Trustee's sole duty with respect to the
            custody, safe keeping and physical preservation of the Debentures
            and the Payment Account shall

                                       39

be to deal with such property in a similar manner as the Property
            Trustee deals with similar property for its own account, subject to
            the protections and limitations on liability afforded to the
            Property Trustee under this Trust Agreement and the Trust Indenture
            Act;

                  (v) the Property Trustee shall not be liable for any interest
            on any money received by it except as it may otherwise agree with
            the Sponsor; and money held by the Property Trustee need not be
            segregated from other funds held by it except in relation to the
            Payment Account maintained by the Property Trustee pursuant to
            Section 3.1 and except to the extent otherwise required by law;

                  (vi) the Property Trustee shall not be responsible for
            monitoring the compliance by the Administrative Trustees or the
            Sponsor with their respective duties under this Trust Agreement, nor
            shall the Property Trustee be liable for the default or misconduct
            of any other Trustee, the Administrative Trustees or the Sponsor;
            and

                  (vii) no provision of this Trust Agreement shall require the
            Property Trustee to expend or risk its own funds or otherwise incur
            personal financial liability in the performance of any of its duties
            or in the exercise of any of its rights or powers, if the Property
            Trustee shall have reasonable grounds for believing that the
            repayment of such funds or liability is not reasonably assured to it
            under the terms of this Trust Agreement or adequate indemnity
            against such risk or liability is not reasonably assured to it.

            (f) The Administrative Trustees shall not be responsible for
      monitoring the compliance by the other Trustees or the Sponsor with their
      respective duties under this Trust Agreement, nor shall either
      Administrative Trustee be liable for the default or misconduct of any
      other Trustee or the Sponsor.

            (g) The Delaware Trustee shall not be entitled to exercise any
      powers, nor shall the Delaware Trustee have any of the duties and
      liabilities of the Property Trustee or the Administrative Trustees set
      forth herein. The duties of the Delaware Trustee shall be limited to (i)
      accepting legal process served on the Trust in the State of Delaware and
      (ii) the execution of any certificates required to be filed with the
      Delaware Secretary of State which the Delaware Trustee is required to
      execute under Section 3811 of the Delaware Statutory Trust Act. The
      Delaware Trustee shall be entitled to all of the same rights, protections
      indemnities and immunities under the Trust Agreement and with respect to
      the Trust as the Property Trustee.

      SECTION 8.2. Certain Notices.

      Within thirty days after the occurrence of any Event of Default actually
known to the Property Trustee, the Property Trustee shall transmit, in the
manner and to the extent provided in Section 12.8, notice of such Event of
Default to the Holders and the Administrative Trustees, unless such Event of
Default shall have been cured or waived.

      Within five Business Days after the receipt of notice of the Sponsor's
exercise of its right to defer the payment of interest on the Debentures
pursuant to the Indenture, the Property Trustee

                                       40

shall transmit, in the manner and to the extent provided in Section 12.8, notice
of such exercise to the Holders and the Administrative Trustees, unless such
exercise shall have been revoked.

      The Property Trustee shall not be deemed to have knowledge of any Event of
Default unless the Property Trustee shall have received written notice or a
Responsible Officer of the Property Trustee charged with the administration of
this Trust Agreement shall have obtained actual knowledge of such Event of
Default.

      SECTION 8.3. Certain Rights of Property Trustee.

      Subject to the provisions of Section 8.1:

            (a) the Property Trustee may rely and shall be protected in acting
      or refraining from acting in good faith upon any resolution, Opinion of
      Counsel, certificate, written representation of a Holder or transferee,
      certificate of auditors or any other certificate, statement, instrument,
      opinion, report, notice, request, consent, order, appraisal, bond,
      debenture, note, other evidence of indebtedness or other paper or document
      believed by it to be genuine and to have been signed or presented by the
      proper party or parties;

            (b) if (i) in performing its duties under this Trust Agreement the
      Property Trustee is required to decide between alternative courses of
      action, (ii) in construing any of the provisions of this Trust Agreement
      the Property Trustee finds the same ambiguous or inconsistent with any
      other provisions contained herein, or (iii) the Property Trustee is unsure
      of the application of any provision of this Trust Agreement, then, except
      as to any matter as to which the Holders of the Trust Preferred Securities
      are entitled to vote under the terms of this Trust Agreement, the Property
      Trustee shall deliver a notice to the Sponsor requesting the Sponsor's
      opinion as to the course of action to be taken; provided, however, that if
      the Sponsor fails to deliver such opinion within 10 Business Days, the
      Property Trustee may take such action, or refrain from taking such action,
      as the Property Trustee shall determine in the interests of the Holders,
      in which event the Property Trustee shall have no liability except for its
      own bad faith, negligence or willful misconduct;

            (c) any direction or act of the Sponsor or the Sponsor contemplated
      by this Trust Agreement shall be sufficiently evidenced by an Officers'
      Certificate;

            (d) any direction or act of an Administrative Trustee contemplated
      by this Trust Agreement shall be sufficiently evidenced by a certificate
      executed by such Administrative Trustee and setting forth such direction
      or act;

            (e) the Property Trustee shall have no duty to see to any recording,
      filing or registration of any instrument (including any financing or
      continuation statement or any filing under tax or securities laws) or any
      rerecording, refiling or re-registration thereof;

            (f) the Property Trustee may consult with counsel of its own
      selection (which counsel may be counsel to the Sponsor or any of its
      Affiliates, and may include any of its employees) and the advice of such
      counsel shall be full and complete authorization and protection in respect
      of any action taken, suffered or omitted by it hereunder in good faith

                                       41

and in reliance thereon and in accordance with such advice; the Property
      Trustee shall have the right at any time to seek instructions concerning
      the administration of this Trust Agreement from any court of competent
      jurisdiction;

            (g) the Property Trustee shall be under no obligation to exercise
      any of the rights or powers vested in it by this Trust Agreement at the
      request or direction of any of the Holders pursuant to this Trust
      Agreement, unless such Holders shall have offered to the Property Trustee
      reasonable security or indemnity satisfactory to it against the costs,
      expenses and liabilities that might be incurred by it in compliance with
      such request or direction; provided that, nothing contained herein shall,
      however, relieve the Property Trustee of the obligation, upon the
      occurrence of an Event of Default (that has not been cured or waived) to
      exercise such of the rights and powers vested in it by this Agreement, and
      to use the same degree of care and skill in their exercise, as a prudent
      man would exercise or use under the circumstances in the conduct of his
      own affairs;

            (h) the Property Trustee shall not be bound to make any
      investigation into the facts or matters stated in any resolution,
      certificate, statement, instrument, opinion, report, notice, request,
      consent, order, approval, bond, debenture, note or other evidence of
      indebtedness or other paper or document, unless requested in writing to do
      so by one or more Holders, but the Property Trustee may make such further
      inquiry or investigation into such facts or matters as it may see fit at
      the expense of the Sponsor and shall incur no liability of any kind by
      reason of such inquiry or investigation;

            (i) the Property Trustee may execute any of the trusts or powers
      hereunder or perform any duties hereunder either directly or by or through
      its agents or attorneys, provided that the Property Trustee shall be
      responsible for its own negligence or misconduct with respect to selection
      of any agent or attorney appointed by it hereunder;

            (j) whenever in the administration of this Trust Agreement the
      Property Trustee shall deem it desirable to receive instructions with
      respect to enforcing any remedy or right or taking any other action
      hereunder, the Property Trustee (i) may request instructions from the
      Holders (which instructions may only be given by the Holders of the same
      proportion in Liquidation Amount of the Trust Securities as would be
      entitled to direct the Property Trustee under the terms of the Trust
      Securities in respect of such remedy, right or action), (ii) may refrain
      from enforcing such remedy or right or taking such other action until such
      instructions are received, and (iii) shall be protected in acting in
      accordance with such instructions; and

            (k) except as otherwise expressly provided by this Trust Agreement,
      the Property Trustee shall not be under any obligation to take any action
      that is discretionary under the provisions of this Trust Agreement. No
      provision of this Trust Agreement shall be deemed to impose any duty or
      obligation on any Trustee to perform any act or acts or exercise any
      right, power, duty or obligation conferred or imposed on it, in any
      jurisdiction in which it shall be illegal, or in which such Person shall
      be unqualified or incompetent in accordance with applicable law, to
      perform any such act or acts, or to exercise any such right, power, duty
      or obligation. No permissive power or authority available to any Trustee
      shall be construed to be a duty.

                                       42

SECTION 8.4. Not Responsible for Recitals or Issuance of Securities.

      The recitals contained herein and in the Trust Securities Certificates
shall be taken as the statements of the Trust and the Sponsor, and the Trustees
do not assume any responsibility for their correctness. The Trustees shall not
be accountable for the use or application by the Sponsor of the proceeds of the
Debentures.

      The Property Trustee makes no representation as to the title to, or value
or condition of, the Trust Property or any part thereof, including the
Debentures, nor as to the validity or sufficiency of the Trust Agreement, the
Debentures or the Trust Securities. The Property Trustee makes no representation
as to the validity or the qualification of the Trust as a Delaware statutory
trust or a grantor trust or as to the sale of the Trust Preferred Securities by
the Trust, including without limitation, any registration exemptions applicable
to the Trust Securities.

      SECTION 8.5. May Hold Securities.

      Any Trustee or any other agent of any Trustee or the Trust, in its
individual or any other capacity, may become the owner or pledgee of Trust
Securities and, subject to Sections 8.8 and 8.13, and except as provided in the
definition of the term "Outstanding" in Article I, may otherwise deal with the
Trust with the same rights it would have if it were not Trustee or such other
agent.

      SECTION 8.6. Compensation; Indemnity; Fees.

      The Sponsor agrees:

            (a) to pay to the Trustees from time to time such reasonable
      compensation for all services rendered by them hereunder as may be
      separately agreed by the Sponsor and the Trustees from time to time (which
      compensation shall not be limited by any provision of law in regard to the
      compensation of a trustee of an express trust);

            (b) except as otherwise expressly provided herein, to reimburse the
      Trustees upon request for all reasonable expenses, disbursements and
      advances incurred or made by the Trustees in accordance with any provision
      of this Trust Agreement (including the reasonable compensation and the
      expenses and disbursements of their agents and counsel), except any such
      expense, disbursement or advance as shall be determined to have been
      caused by their own negligence, bad faith or willful misconduct; and

            (c) to the fullest extent permitted by applicable law, to indemnify
      and hold harmless (i) each Trustee, (ii) any Affiliate of any Trustee,
      (iii) any officer, director, shareholder, employee, representative or
      agent of any Trustee, and (iv) any employee or agent of the Trust
      (referred to herein as an "Indemnified Person") from and against any loss,
      damage, liability, tax, penalty, expense or claim of any kind or nature
      whatsoever incurred by such Indemnified Person by reason of the creation,
      operation or dissolution of the Trust or any act or omission performed or
      omitted by such Indemnified Person in good faith on behalf of the Trust
      and in a manner such Indemnified Person reasonably believed to be within
      the scope of authority conferred on such Indemnified Person by this Trust
      Agreement, except that no Indemnified Person shall be entitled to be
      indemnified in

                                       43

respect of any loss, damage or claim incurred by such Indemnified Person
      by reason of negligence, bad faith or willful misconduct with respect to
      such acts or omissions.

      The provisions of this Section 8.6 shall survive the termination of this
Trust Agreement and the removal or resignation of any Trustee. No Trustee may
claim any Lien on any Trust Property as a result of any amount due pursuant to
this Section 8.6.

      Subject to Section 8.8, The Sponsor and any Trustee may engage in or
possess an interest in other business ventures of any nature or description,
independently or with others, similar or dissimilar to the business of the
Trust, and the Trust and the Holders of Trust Securities shall have no rights by
virtue of this Trust Agreement in and to such independent ventures or the income
or profits derived therefrom, and the pursuit of any such venture, even if
competitive with the business of the Trust, shall not be deemed wrongful or
improper. Neither the Sponsor nor any Trustee shall be obligated to present any
particular investment or other opportunity to the Trust even if such opportunity
is of a character that, if presented to the Trust, could be taken by the Trust,
and the Sponsor and any Trustee shall have the right to take for its own account
(individually or as a partner or fiduciary) or to recommend to others any such
particular investment or other opportunity. Any Trustee may engage or be
interested in any financial or other transaction with the Sponsor or any
Affiliate of the Sponsor, or may act as depository for, trustee or agent for, or
act on any committee or body of holders of, securities or other obligations of
the Sponsor or its Affiliates.

      SECTION 8.7. Corporate Property Trustee Required; Eligibility of Trustees
and Administrative Trustees.

            (a) There shall at all times be a Property Trustee hereunder with
      respect to the Trust Securities. The Property Trustee shall be a Person
      that is a national or state chartered bank or trust company and eligible
      pursuant to the Trust Indenture Act to act as such and that has a combined
      capital and surplus of at least $50,000,000. If any such Person publishes
      reports of condition at least annually, pursuant to law or to the
      requirements of its supervising or examining authority, then for the
      purposes of this Section 8.7 and to the extent permitted by the Trust
      Indenture Act, the combined capital and surplus of such Person shall be
      deemed to be its combined capital and surplus as set forth in its most
      recent report of condition so published. If at any time the Property
      Trustee with respect to the Trust Securities shall cease to be eligible in
      accordance with the provisions of this Section 8.7(a), it shall resign
      immediately in the manner and with the effect hereinafter specified in
      this Article VIII. At the time of appointment, the Property Trustee must
      have securities rated in one of the three highest rating categories by a
      nationally recognized statistical rating organization.

            (b) There shall at all times be one or more Administrative Trustees
      hereunder with respect to the Trust Securities. Each Administrative
      Trustee shall be either a natural person who is at least 21 years of age
      or a legal entity that shall act through one or more persons authorized to
      bind that entity.

            (c) There shall at all times be a Delaware Trustee with respect to
      the Trust Securities. The Delaware Trustee shall either be (i) a natural
      person who is at least 21

                                       44

years of age and a resident of the State of Delaware, or (ii) a legal
      entity with its principal place of business in the State of Delaware and
      that otherwise meets the requirements of applicable Delaware law and that
      shall act through one or more persons authorized to bind such entity.

      SECTION 8.8. Conflicting Interests.

            (a) If the Property Trustee has or shall acquire a conflicting
      interest within the meaning of the Trust Indenture Act, the Property
      Trustee shall either eliminate such interest or resign, to the extent and
      in the manner provided by, and subject to the provisions of, the Trust
      Indenture Act and this Trust Agreement.

            (b) The Guarantee Agreement and the Indenture shall be deemed to be
      specifically described in this Trust Agreement for the purposes of clause
      (i) of the first proviso contained in Section 310(b) of the Trust
      Indenture Act.

      SECTION 8.9. Co-Trustees and Separate Trustee.

      Unless and until a Debenture Event of Default shall have occurred and be
continuing, at any time or times, for the purpose of meeting the legal
requirements of the Trust Indenture Act or of any jurisdiction in which any part
of the Trust Property may at the time be located, the Holder of Common
Securities and the Administrative Trustees shall have the power to appoint one
or more Persons either to act as co-trustee, jointly with the Property Trustee,
of all or any part of such Trust Property, or to the extent required by law to
act as separate trustee of any such property, in either case with such powers as
may be provided in the instrument of appointment, and to vest in such Person or
Persons in the capacity aforesaid, any property, title, right or power deemed
necessary or desirable, subject to the other provisions of this Section. If a
Debenture Event of Default shall have occurred and be continuing, the Property
Trustee shall have the sole power to so appoint such a co-trustee or separate
trustee, and upon the written request of the Property Trustee, the Sponsor and
the Administrative Trustees shall for such purpose join with the Property
Trustee in the execution, delivery, and performance of all instruments and
agreements necessary or proper to appoint such co-trustee or separate trustee.
Any co-trustee or separate trustee appointed pursuant to this Section shall
either be (i) a natural person who is at least 21 years of age and a resident of
the United States, or (ii) a legal entity with its principal place of business
in the United States that shall act through one or more persons authorized to
bind such entity.

      Should any written instrument from the Sponsor be required by any
co-trustee or separate trustee so appointed for more fully confirming to such
co-trustee or separate trustee such property, title, right, or power, any and
all such instruments shall, on request, be executed, acknowledged and delivered
by the Sponsor.

      Every co-trustee or separate trustee shall, to the extent permitted by
law, but to such extent only, be appointed subject to the following terms,
namely:

            (a) The Trust Securities shall be executed by one or more
      Administrative Trustees, and the Trust Securities shall be delivered by
      the Property Trustee, and all rights, powers, duties, and obligations
      hereunder in respect of the custody of securities,

                                       45

cash and other personal property held by, or required to be deposited or
      pledged with, the Property Trustee specified hereunder shall be exercised
      solely by the Property Trustee and not by such co-trustee or separate
      trustee.

            (b) The rights, powers, duties, and obligations hereby conferred or
      imposed upon the Property Trustee in respect of any property covered by
      such appointment shall be conferred or imposed upon and exercised or
      performed by the Property Trustee or by the Property Trustee and such
      co-trustee or separate trustee jointly, as shall be provided in the
      instrument appointing such co-trustee or separate trustee, except to the
      extent that under any law of any jurisdiction in which any particular act
      is to be performed, the Property Trustee shall be incompetent or
      unqualified to perform such act, in which event such rights, powers,
      duties and obligations shall be exercised and performed by such co-trustee
      or separate trustee.

            (c) The Property Trustee at any time, by an instrument in writing
      executed by it, with the written concurrence of the Sponsor, may accept
      the resignation of or remove any co-trustee or separate trustee appointed
      under this Section 8.9, and, in case a Debenture Event of Default has
      occurred and is continuing, the Property Trustee shall have power to
      accept the resignation of, or remove, any such co-trustee or separate
      trustee without the concurrence of the Sponsor. Upon the written request
      of the Property Trustee, the Sponsor shall join with the Property Trustee
      in the execution, delivery and performance of all instruments and
      agreements necessary or proper to effectuate such resignation or removal.
      A successor to any co-trustee or separate trustee so resigning or removed
      may be appointed in the manner provided in this Section 8.9.

      No co-trustee or separate trustee hereunder shall be personally liable by
reason of any act or omission of the Property Trustee or any other trustee
hereunder.

            (d) The Property Trustee shall not be liable by reason of any act or
      omission of a co-trustee or separate trustee.

            (e) Any Act of Holders delivered to the Property Trustee shall be
      deemed to have been delivered to each such co-trustee and separate
      trustee.

      SECTION 8.10. Resignation and Removal; Appointment of Successor.

      No resignation or removal of any Trustee (the "Relevant Trustee") and no
appointment of a successor Trustee pursuant to this Article VIII shall become
effective until the acceptance of appointment by the successor Trustee in
accordance with the applicable requirements of Section 8.11.

      Subject to the immediately preceding paragraph, the Relevant Trustee may
resign at any time by giving written notice thereof to the Sponsor and by
appointing a successor Relevant Trustee, which successor shall be acceptable to
the Sponsor. The Relevant Trustee shall appoint a successor by requesting from
at least three Persons meeting the eligibility requirements its expenses and
charges to serve as the Relevant Trustee on a form provided by the
Administrative Trustees, and selecting the Person who agrees to the lowest
expenses and charges. If the instrument of acceptance by the successor Trustee
required by Section 8.11 shall not have been

                                       46

delivered to the Relevant Trustee within 60 days after the giving of such notice
of resignation, the Relevant Trustee may petition, at the expense of the
Sponsor, in the case of the Property Trustee, any court of competent
jurisdiction for the appointment of a successor Relevant Trustee.

      The Administrative Trustees, or any of them, may be removed at any time by
Act of the Holders of Common Securities delivered to the Relevant Trustee.

      The Property Trustee or the Delaware Trustee, or both of them, may be
removed by Act of the Holders of at least a Majority in Accreted Liquidation
Amount of the Trust Preferred Securities, delivered to the Relevant Trustee (in
its individual capacity and, in the case of the Property Trustee, on behalf of
the Trust) (i) for cause (including upon the occurrence of an Event of Default
described in subparagraph (d) of the definition thereof with respect to the
Relevant Trustee), or (ii) at any time if a Debenture Event of Default shall
have occurred and be continuing. Unless and until a Debenture Event of Default
shall have occurred and be continuing, the Property Trustee or the Delaware
Trustee, or both of them, may be removed at any time by Act of the Holders of
the Common Securities.

      If a resigning Property Trustee or Delaware Trustee shall fail to appoint
a successor, or if the Property Trustee or the Delaware Trustee shall be removed
or become incapable of acting as Trustee, or if a vacancy shall occur in the
office of the Property Trustee or the Delaware Trustee for any cause, the
Holders of the Common Securities by Act of such Holders delivered to the
Relevant Trustee or, if a Debenture Event of Default shall have occurred and be
continuing, the Holders of the Trust Preferred Securities, by Act of the Holders
of not less than 25% in aggregate Accreted Liquidation Amount of the Trust
Preferred Securities then Outstanding delivered to such Relevant Trustee, may
appoint a successor Relevant Trustee or Trustees, and such successor Trustee
shall comply with the applicable requirements of Section 8.11. If no successor
Relevant Trustee shall have been so appointed by the Holders of the Common
Securities or Trust Preferred Securities, as the case may be, and accepted
appointment in the manner required by Section 8.11, any Holder, on behalf of
such Holder and all others similarly situated, or any other Trustee, may
petition any court of competent jurisdiction for the appointment of a successor
Relevant Trustee.

      The resigning Trustee shall give notice of each resignation or each
removal of an Trustee and each appointment of a successor Trustee to all Holders
in the manner provided in Section 12.8 and shall give notice to the Sponsor and
to the other Trustees. Each notice shall include the name of the successor
Relevant Trustee and the address of its Corporate Trust Office if it is the
Property Trustee.

      Notwithstanding the foregoing or any other provision of this Trust
Agreement, if any Delaware Trustee who is a natural person dies or becomes, in
the opinion of the Holders of the Common Securities, incompetent or
incapacitated, the vacancy created by such death, incompetence or incapacity may
be filled by the Property Trustee following the procedures regarding expenses
and charges set forth above (with the successor being a Person who satisfies the
eligibility requirement for the Delaware Trustee set forth in Section 8.7).

                                       47

SECTION 8.11. Acceptance of Appointment by Successor.

      In case of the appointment hereunder of a successor to a Relevant Trustee,
the Sponsor, the retiring Relevant Trustee and each successor Trustee with
respect to the Trust Securities shall execute and deliver an amendment hereto
wherein each successor Trustee shall accept such appointment and which (a) shall
contain such provisions as shall be necessary or desirable to transfer and
confirm to, and to vest in, each successor Relevant Trustee all the rights,
powers, trusts and duties of the retiring Trustee with respect to the Trust
Securities and the Trust, and (b) shall add to or change any of the provisions
of this Trust Agreement as shall be necessary to provide for or facilitate the
administration of the Trust by more than one party hereto, it being understood
that nothing herein or in such amendment shall constitute such parties
co-trustees and upon the execution and delivery of such amendment the
resignation or removal of the retiring Relevant Trustee shall become effective
to the extent provided therein and each such successor Relevant Trustee, without
any further act, deed or conveyance, shall become vested with all the rights,
powers, trusts and duties of the retiring Relevant Trustee, other than the
filing of an amendment to the Certificate of Trust to the extent required under
the Delaware Statutory Trust Act; but, on request of the Trust or any successor
Trustee, such retiring Relevant Trustee shall duly assign, transfer and deliver
to such successor Trustee all Trust Property, all proceeds thereof and money
held by such retiring Relevant Trustee hereunder with respect to the Trust
Securities and the Trust.

      Upon request of any such successor party, the Trust shall execute any and
all instruments for more fully and certainly vesting in and confirming to such
successor party all such rights, powers and trusts referred to in the preceding
paragraph.

      No successor party shall accept its appointment unless at the time of such
acceptance such successor party shall be qualified and eligible under this
Article VIII.

      SECTION 8.12. Merger, Conversion, Consolidation or Succession to Business.

      Any Person into which the Property Trustee or the Delaware Trustee may be
merged or converted or with which it may be consolidated, or any Person
resulting from any merger, conversion or consolidation to which such Relevant
Trustee shall be a party, or any Person, succeeding to all or substantially all
the corporate trust business of such Relevant Trustee, shall be the successor of
such Relevant Trustee hereunder, provided that such Person shall be otherwise
qualified and eligible under this Article VIII, without the execution or filing
of any paper or any further act on the part of any of the parties hereto, other
than the filing of an amendment to the Certificate of Trust to the extent
required under the Delaware Statutory Trust Act.

      SECTION 8.13. Preferential Collection of Claims Against Sponsor or Trust.

      If and when the Property Trustee shall be or become a creditor of the
Sponsor or the Trust (or any other obligor upon the Trust Preferred Securities),
the Property Trustee shall be subject to the provisions of the Trust Indenture
Act regarding the collection of claims against the Sponsor or the Trust (or any
such other obligor).

                                       48

SECTION 8.14. Trustee May File Proofs of Claim.

      In case of any receivership, insolvency, liquidation, bankruptcy,
reorganization, arrangement, adjustment, composition or other similar judicial
proceeding relative to the Trust or any other obligor upon the Trust Securities
or the property of the Trust (including the Debentures) or of such other obligor
or their creditors, the Property Trustee (irrespective of whether any
Distributions on the Trust Securities shall then be due and payable and
irrespective of whether the Property Trustee shall have made any demand on the
Trust for the payment of any past due Distributions) shall be entitled and
empowered, to the fullest extent permitted by law, by intervention in such
proceeding or otherwise:

            (a) to file and prove a claim for the whole amount of any
      Distributions owing and unpaid in respect of the Trust Securities and to
      file such other papers or documents as may be necessary or advisable in
      order to have the claims of the Property Trustee (including any claim for
      the reasonable compensation, expenses, disbursements and advances of the
      Property Trustee, its agents and counsel) and of the Holders allowed in
      such judicial proceeding,

            (b) to collect and receive any moneys or other property payable or
      deliverable on any such claims and to distribute the same; and any
      custodian, receiver, assignee, trustee, liquidator, sequestrator or other
      similar official in any such judicial proceeding is hereby authorized by
      each Holder to make such payments to the Property Trustee and, in the
      event the Property Trustee shall consent to the making of such payments
      directly to the Holders, to pay to the Property Trustee any amount due it
      for the reasonable compensation, expenses, disbursements and advances of
      the Property Trustee, its agents and counsel, and any other amounts due
      the Property Trustee under Section 8.6, and

            (c) without prejudice to any other rights available to the Property
      Trustee under applicable law, when the Property Trustee incurs expenses or
      renders services in connection with a Bankruptcy Event, such expenses
      (including legal fees and expenses of its agents and counsel) and the
      compensation for such services are intended to constitute expense of
      administration under any Bankruptcy Law or law relating to creditors'
      rights generally.

      Nothing herein contained shall be deemed to authorize the Property Trustee
to authorize or consent to or accept or adopt on behalf of any Holder any plan
of reorganization, arrangement adjustment or compensation affecting the Trust
Securities or the rights of any Holder thereof or to authorize the Property
Trustee to vote in respect of the claim of any Holder in any such proceeding.

      SECTION 8.15. Reports by Property Trustee.

            (a) Within 60 days after May 15 of each year commencing with May 15,
      2006, the Property Trustee shall transmit to all Holders in accordance
      with Section 12.8, and to the Sponsor, a brief report dated as of the
      immediately preceding May 15 with respect to:

                                       49

(i) its eligibility under Section 8.7 or, in lieu thereof, if
            to the best of its knowledge it has continued to be eligible under
            said Section, a written statement to such effect;

                  (ii) a statement that the Property Trustee has complied with
            all of its obligations under this Trust Agreement during the
            twelve-month period (or, in the case of the initial report, the
            period since the Closing Date) ending with such May 15 or, if the
            Property Trustee has not complied in any material respect with such
            obligations, a description of such noncompliance; and

                  (iii) any change in the property and funds in its possession
            as Property Trustee since the date of its last report and any action
            taken by the Property Trustee in the performance of its duties
            hereunder which it has not previously reported and which in its
            opinion materially affects the Trust Securities.

            (b) In addition, the Property Trustee shall transmit to Holders such
      reports concerning the Property Trustee and its actions under this Trust
      Agreement as may be required pursuant to the Trust Indenture Act at the
      times and in the manner provided pursuant thereto.

            (c) A copy of each such report shall, at the time of such
      transmission to Holders, be filed by the Property Trustee with each
      national stock exchange, the Nasdaq National Market or such other
      interdealer quotation system or self-regulatory organization upon which
      the Trust Preferred Securities are listed or quoted, if any, and with the
      Commission and the Sponsor.

      SECTION 8.16. Reports to the Property Trustee.

      Each of the Sponsor and the Administrative Trustees shall provide to the
Property Trustee such documents, reports and information as required by Section
314 of the Trust Indenture Act (if any) and the compliance certificate required
by Section 314(a) of the Trust Indenture Act in the form, in the manner and at
the times required by Section 314 of the Trust Indenture Act. The Sponsor and
the Administrative Trustees shall annually file with the Property Trustee a
certificate specifying whether such Person is in compliance with all of the
terms and covenants (if any) applicable to such Person hereunder.

      SECTION 8.17. Evidence of Compliance with Conditions Precedent.

      Each of the Sponsor and the Administrative Trustees shall provide to the
Property Trustee such evidence of compliance with any conditions precedent, if
any, provided for in this Trust Agreement that relate to any of the matters set
forth in Section 314(c) of the Trust Indenture Act. Any certificate or opinion
required to be given by an officer pursuant to Section 314(c)(1) of the Trust
Indenture Act shall be given in the form of an Officers' Certificate.

      SECTION 8.18. Number of Trustees.

            (a) The number of Trustees shall be five, unless the Property
      Trustee also acts as the Delaware Trustee, in which case the number of
      Trustees may be three.

                                       50

(b) If an Trustee ceases to hold office for any reason, a vacancy
      shall occur. The vacancy shall be filled with an Trustee appointed in
      accordance with Section 8.10.

            (c) The death, resignation, retirement, removal, bankruptcy,
      incompetence or incapacity to perform the duties of an Trustee shall not
      operate to annul or dissolve the Trust.

      SECTION 8.19. Delegation of Power.

            (a) Any Administrative Trustee may, by power of attorney consistent
      with applicable law, delegate to any other natural person over the age of
      21 his or her power for the purpose of executing any documents
      contemplated in Section 2.7(a) or making any governmental filing; and

            (b) The Administrative Trustees shall have power to delegate from
      time to time to such of their number the doing of such things and the
      execution of such instruments either in the name of the Trust or the names
      of the Administrative Trustees or otherwise as the Administrative Trustees
      may deem expedient, to the extent such delegation is not prohibited by
      applicable law or contrary to the provisions of this Trust Agreement.

      SECTION 8.20. Trust Liabilities.

            All liabilities of the Trust will be liabilities of the Trust as an
      entity, and will be paid or satisfied from the Trust Property and the
      other assets of the Trust. No liability of the Trust will be payable in
      whole or in part by the Property Trustee in its individual capacity or in
      its capacity as Property Trustee or by any member, partner, shareholder,
      director, officer, employee, agent or attorney of the Property Trustee.

                                   ARTICLE IX
                       DISSOLUTION, LIQUIDATION AND MERGER

      SECTION 9.1. Dissolution Upon Expiration Date.

      Unless earlier dissolved, the Trust shall automatically dissolve, and its
affairs be wound up, on May 17, 2056 (the "Expiration Date"), following the
distribution of the Trust Property in accordance with Section 9.4.

      SECTION 9.2. Early Dissolution.

      The first to occur of any of the following events is an "Early Dissolution
Event":

            (a) the occurrence of a Bankruptcy Event in respect of, or the
      dissolution or liquidation of, the Sponsor, unless the Common Securities
      shall be transferred as provided by Section 5.10, in which case this
      provision shall refer instead to any such successor Holder of the Common
      Securities;

                                       51

(b) the written direction to the Property Trustee from all of the
      Holders of the Common Securities at any time to dissolve the Trust and,
      after satisfaction of liabilities to creditors of the Trust as provided by
      applicable law, to distribute the Debentures to Holders in exchange for
      the Trust Preferred Securities (which direction is optional and wholly
      within the discretion of the Holders of the Common Securities);

            (c) the redemption of all of the Trust Preferred Securities in
      connection with the redemption or repayment of all the Debentures; and

            (d) the entry of an order for dissolution of the Trust by a court of
      competent jurisdiction.

      SECTION 9.3. Dissolution.

      The respective obligations and responsibilities of the Trustees and the
Trust shall terminate upon the latest to occur of the following: (a) the
distribution by the Property Trustee to Holders of all amounts required to be
distributed hereunder upon the liquidation of the Trust pursuant to Section 9.4,
or upon the redemption of all of the Trust Securities pursuant to Section 4.2;
(b) the payment of any and all expenses owed by the Trust; (c) the discharge of
all administrative duties of the Administrative Trustees, including the
performance of any tax reporting obligations with respect to the Trust or the
Holders; and (d) the filing of a certificate of cancellation, at the direction
and expense of the Sponsor, by the Trustees with the Delaware Secretary of State
pursuant to Section 3810 of the Delaware Statutory Trust Act.

      SECTION 9.4. Liquidation.

            (a) If an Early Dissolution Event specified in clause (a), (b) or
      (d) of Section 9.2 occurs or upon the Expiration Date, the Trust shall be
      liquidated by the Property Trustee as expeditiously as the Property
      Trustee determines to be possible by distributing, after satisfaction of
      liabilities to creditors of the Trust as provided by applicable law, to
      each Holder a Like Amount of Debentures, subject to Section 9.4(d). Notice
      of liquidation shall be given by the Property Trustee by first-class mail,
      postage prepaid, mailed not less than 30 nor more than 60 days prior to
      the Liquidation Date to each Holder of Trust Securities at such Holder's
      address appearing in the Securities Register. All such notices of
      liquidation shall:

                  (i) state the CUSIP Number of the Trust Securities;

                  (ii) state the Liquidation Date;

                  (iii) state that from and after the Liquidation Date, the
            Trust Securities will no longer be deemed to be Outstanding and any
            Trust Securities Certificates not surrendered for exchange will be
            deemed to represent a Like Amount of Debentures, or if Section
            9.4(d) applies, a right to receive a Liquidating Distribution; and

                  (iv) provide such information with respect to the mechanics by
            which Holders may exchange Trust Securities Certificates for
            Debentures, or if Section

                                       52

9.4(d) applies, receive a Liquidation Distribution, as the Property
            Trustee (after consultation with the Administrative Trustees) shall
            determine.

            (b) Except where Section 9.2(c) or 9.4(d) applies, in order to
      effect the liquidation of the Trust and distribution of the Debentures to
      Holders, the Property Trustee, either itself acting as exchange agent or
      through the appointment of a separate exchange agent, shall establish a
      record date for such distribution (which shall be not more than 30 days
      prior to the Liquidation Date) and, establish such procedures as it shall
      deem appropriate to effect the distribution of Debentures in exchange for
      the Outstanding Trust Securities Certificates.

            (c) Except where Section 9.2(c) or 9.4(d) applies, after the
      Liquidation Date, (i) the Trust Securities will no longer be deemed to be
      Outstanding, (ii) certificates representing a Like Amount of Debentures
      will be issued to Holders of Trust Securities Certificates, upon surrender
      of such Certificates to the exchange agent for exchange, (iii) any Trust
      Securities Certificates not so surrendered for exchange will be deemed to
      represent a Like Amount of Debentures bearing accrued and unpaid interest
      in an amount equal to the accumulated and unpaid Distributions on such
      Trust Securities Certificates until such certificates are so surrendered
      (and until such certificates are so surrendered, no payments of interest
      or principal will be made to Holders of Trust Securities Certificates with
      respect to such Debentures) and (iv) all rights of Holders holding Trust
      Securities will cease, except the right of such Holders to receive
      Debentures upon surrender of Trust Securities Certificates.

            (d) If, notwithstanding the other provisions of this Section 9.4,
      whether because of an order for dissolution entered by a court of
      competent jurisdiction or otherwise, distribution of the Debentures in the
      manner provided herein is determined by the Property Trustee not to be
      practical, or if an Early Dissolution Event specified in clause (c) of
      Section 9.2 occurs, the Trust Property shall be liquidated, and the Trust
      shall be dissolved and its affairs wound-up, by the Property Trustee in
      such manner as the Property Trustee determines. In such event, the
      Holders, if any, will be entitled to receive out of the assets of the
      Trust available for distribution to Holders, after satisfaction of
      liabilities to creditors of the Trust as provided by applicable law, an
      amount equal to the Accreted Liquidation Amount per Trust Security plus
      accumulated and unpaid Distributions thereon to the date of payment (such
      amount being the "Liquidation Distribution"). If the Liquidation
      Distribution can be paid only in part because the Trust has insufficient
      assets available to pay in full the aggregate Accreted Liquidation
      Distribution, then, subject to the next succeeding sentence, the amounts
      payable by the Trust on the Trust Securities shall be paid on a pro rata
      basis (based upon Liquidation Amounts). The Holders of the Common
      Securities will be entitled to receive Liquidation Distributions pro rata
      (determined as aforesaid) with Holders of Trust Preferred Securities,
      except that, if a Debenture Event of Default specified in Section
      6.1(a)(1) or 6.1(a)(2) of the Supplemental Indenture has occurred and is
      continuing, the Trust Preferred Securities shall have a priority over the
      Common Securities as provided in Section 4.3.

                                       53

SECTION 9.5. Mergers, Consolidations, Amalgamations or Replacements of
Trust.

      The Trust may not merge with or into, consolidate, amalgamate, or be
replaced by, or convey, transfer or lease its properties and assets
substantially as an entirety to any Person or other body, except pursuant to
this Section 9.5 or Section 9.4. At the request of the Holders of the Common
Securities, with the consent of the Administrative Trustees, but without the
consent of the Holders of the Trust Preferred Securities, the Property Trustee
or the Delaware Trustee, the Trust may merge with or into, consolidate,
amalgamate, or be replaced by or convey, transfer or lease its properties and
assets substantially as an entirety to a trust organized as such under the laws
of any state; provided, that (i) such successor entity either (a) expressly
assumes all of the obligations of the Trust with respect to the Trust Preferred
Securities, or (b) substitutes for the Trust Preferred Securities other
securities having substantially the same terms as the Trust Preferred Securities
(the "Successor Securities") so long as the Successor Securities have the same
priority as the Trust Preferred Securities with respect to distributions and
payments upon liquidation, redemption and otherwise, (ii) a trustee of such
successor entity possessing substantially the same powers and duties as the
Property Trustee is appointed to hold the Debentures, (iii) the Successor
Securities are listed, or any Successor Securities will be listed upon
notification of issuance, on any national securities exchange or other
organization on which the Trust Preferred Securities are listed, (iv) such
merger, consolidation, amalgamation, replacement, conveyance, transfer or lease
does not cause the Trust Preferred Securities (including any Successor
Securities) to be downgraded by any nationally recognized statistical rating
organization, (v) such merger, consolidation, amalgamation, replacement,
conveyance, transfer or lease does not adversely affect the rights, preferences
and privileges of the Holders of the Trust Preferred Securities (including any
Successor Securities) in any material respect, (vi) such successor entity has a
purpose substantially identical to that of the Trust, (vii) prior to such
merger, consolidation, amalgamation, replacement, conveyance, transfer or lease,
the Property Trustee has received an Opinion of Counsel to the effect that (a)
such merger, consolidation, amalgamation, replacement, conveyance, transfer or
lease does not adversely affect the rights, preferences and privileges of the
Holders of the Trust Preferred Securities (including any Successor Securities)
in any material respect, and (b) following such merger, consolidation,
amalgamation, replacement, conveyance, transfer or lease, neither the Trust nor
such successor entity will be required to register as an "investment company"
under the Investment Company Act, and (viii) the Sponsor or its permitted
transferee owns all of the common securities of such successor entity and the
Sponsor guarantees the obligations of such successor entity under the Successor
Securities at least to the extent provided by the Guarantee Agreement.
Notwithstanding the foregoing, the Trust shall not, except with the consent of
Holders of all of the Trust Preferred Securities, consolidate, amalgamate, merge
with or into, or be replaced by or convey, transfer or lease its properties and
assets substantially as an entirety to any other Person or permit any other
Person to consolidate, amalgamate, merge with or into, or replace it if such
consolidation, amalgamation, merger, replacement, conveyance, transfer or lease
would cause the Trust or the successor entity to be taxable as a corporation or
classified as other than a grantor trust for United States Federal income tax
purposes.

                                       54

ARTICLE X
                      REMARKETING AND RESET RATE MECHANICS

      SECTION 10.1. Obligation to Conduct Remarketing and Related Requirements.

            (a) The Sponsor and the Trust shall appoint a nationally recognized
      investment banking firm as Remarketing Agent and enter into a Remarketing
      Agreement at least 30 days prior to each Remarketing Date. The Sponsor and
      the Trust may appoint different Remarketing Agents for Remarketings on and
      in connection with different Remarketing Dates, provided that they shall
      have appointed a Remarketing Agent and caused the related Remarketing
      Agreement to be in effect for the period commencing not less than 30 days
      prior to the related Remarketing Date and continuing through such
      Remarketing Date and the determination in accordance with this Article X
      that the related Remarketing is a Successful Remarketing or Failed
      Remarketing. Each Remarketing Agreement shall include such terms,
      conditions and other provisions as the Sponsor, the Trust and the
      Remarketing Agent may agree among themselves but shall in any event
      include provisions to substantially the following effect:

                  (i) provide that the Remarketing Agent will use its
            commercially reasonable efforts to obtain a price for the Trust
            Preferred Securities to be remarketed in the Remarketing which
            results in proceeds, net of the Remarketing Agent's Fee, equal to at
            least 100% of their aggregate Accreted Liquidation Amount, plus
            accrued and unpaid Distributions, if any, to the Remarketing
            Settlement Date (including the Additional Interest, if any, that
            remains accrued and unpaid on the Remarketing Settlement Date
            because the Sponsor has exercised its right to defer interest on the
            Debentures in accordance with Section 4.01 of the Base Indenture);

                  (ii) provide that the Remarketing Agent will in its sole
            discretion reset the Distribution Rate on the Trust Preferred
            Securities (as a yield to the Scheduled Redemption Date unless the
            Sponsor elects, pursuant to Section 2.13 of the First Supplemental
            Indenture and Section 10.2 of this Trust Agreement, to cause
            interest on the Debentures to be paid in cash, and then as a rate
            per annum for payment of interest in cash on each applicable
            Distribution Date) in order to give effect to clause (i) above for
            Distribution Periods commencing on or after such Remarketing
            Settlement Date, subject to Section 10.3;

                  (iii) provide that the Remarketing Agent will deduct the
            Remarketing Agent's Fee from the proceeds of the Remarketing and
            remit any proceeds remaining after such deduction to or at the
            direction of the Property Trustee, who either will apply such
            proceeds (or will have given the Remarketing Agent instructions to
            remit such proceeds in a manner that will result in their
            application) as follows (allocated to the Trust Preferred Securities
            that participated in the Remarketing on a pro rata basis in
            proportion to their Accreted Liquidation Amounts):

                  (iv) to the extent such proceeds relate to Trust Preferred
            Securities that are a part of Normal Common Equity Units, to pay
            such proceeds up to the aggregate Par Proceeds Remarketing Amount to
            the Stock Purchase Contract Agent for

                                       55

application in accordance with the Stock Purchase Contract Agreement
            and to pay the Excess Proceeds Remarketing Amount, if any, to the
            applicable selling Holders; and

            (b) to the extent the proceeds relate to Separate Trust Preferred
      Securities, to pay such proceeds to the applicable selling Holders; and

                  (i) provide that the Remarketing Agent's Fee for the
            Remarketing will be as agreed among the Sponsor, the Trust and the
            Remarketing Agent and set forth in the Remarketing Agreement.

            (c) The Sponsor and the Trust shall use their commercially
      reasonable efforts to effect remarketing of the Trust Preferred Securities
      as described in this Article X. If in the judgment of counsel to the
      Sponsor or to the Remarketing Agent it is necessary for a registration
      statement covering the Trust Preferred Securities to have been filed and
      have become effective under the Securities Act in order to effect the
      Remarketing, then the Sponsor and the Trust shall use their commercially
      reasonable efforts (i) to ensure that a registration statement covering
      the full Accreted Liquidation Amount of Trust Preferred Securities to be
      remarketed shall have become effective in a form that will enable the
      Remarketing Agent to rely on it in connection with the Remarketing or (ii)
      effect such Remarketing pursuant to Rule 144A under the Securities Act or
      another available exemption from the registration requirements under the
      Securities Act.

      SECTION 10.2. Sponsor Decisions in Connection With Remarketing.

      In connection with Remarketings, the Sponsor shall have the right
hereunder to change certain terms of the Trust Preferred Securities (and under
Section 2.10 of the Supplement Indenture, the Sponsor has the right to make
corresponding changes in certain terms of the Debentures) as provided below in
this Section 10.2. By not later than the 30th day prior to each Remarketing
Date, the Sponsor will specify the following information or decisions in a
notice to the Remarketing Agent, the Property Trustee, the Debenture Trustee and
the Stock Purchase Contract Agent (paragraphs (a) through (e) applying only if
the Remarketing is Successful and paragraph (f) applying only if the related
Remarketing Settlement Date is February 15, 2009 and the Remarketing is a Failed
Remarketing):

            (a) whether from and after the Remarketing Settlement Date the
      Debentures will pay interest (and, accordingly, the Trust Preferred
      Securities will pay Distributions) in cash (it being understood and agreed
      that, unless the Sponsor affirmatively elects to cause the Debentures to
      pay interest (and the Trust Preferred Securities to pay Distributions) in
      cash from and after the Remarketing Settlement Date, interest will not be
      paid or Distributions made in cash but, instead, will accrete in
      accordance with Section 4.1(a) of this Agreement and Section 2.10 of the
      Supplemental Indenture, as applicable);

            (b) whether the Debenture Stated Maturity Date (and, accordingly,
      the Scheduled Redemption Date) will remain at February 15, 2040 or will be
      changed to an earlier date (specifying such date if applicable); provided,
      however, that the Debenture Stated Maturity Date may not be changed to a
      date earlier than the second anniversary of

                                       56

the Stock Purchase Date or, if the Remarketing Settlement Date occurs
      during a Deferral Period, the fifth anniversary of the first day of such
      Deferral Period;

            (c) whether the Debentures (and, accordingly, the Trust Preferred
      Securities) will be redeemable at the Sponsor's option on a day prior to
      the Debenture Stated Maturity Date and, if so, the date on and after which
      the Debentures may be so redeemed and the redemption price or prices;
      provided, however, that an early redemption date for the Debentures and
      related early Redemption Date hereunder may not be a date earlier than the
      second anniversary of the Stock Purchase Date or, if the Remarketing
      Settlement Date occurs during a Deferral Period, the fifth anniversary of
      the first day of such Deferral Period;

            (d) whether the Sponsor elects, in connection with the Remarketing,
      to add any additional financial covenants to the Indenture applicable to
      the Debentures, including the form of supplemental indenture proposed to
      be entered into in order to give effect to such additional financial
      covenants if the Sponsor is choosing to add any financial covenants;

            (e) whether in connection with such Remarketing the Sponsor is
      exercising its right under Section 6.1 of the Supplemental Indenture and
      Section 6.3 of the Guarantee Agreement to cause the subordination
      provisions in the Indenture applicable to the Debentures and in the
      Guarantee Agreement to no longer be of force and effect from and after the
      then current Remarketing Settlement Date; and

            (f) if the Remarketing Settlement Date is February 15, 2009 and if
      the related Remarketing is a Failed Remarketing:

                  (i) whether the Debenture Stated Maturity Date (and,
            accordingly, the Scheduled Redemption Date) will remain at February
            15, 2040 or will be changed to an earlier date (specifying such date
            if applicable); and

                  (ii) whether the Debentures (and, accordingly, the Trust
            Preferred Securities) will be redeemable at the Sponsor's option on
            a date prior to the Debenture Stated Maturity Date and, if so, the
            date on and after which the Debentures may be so redeemed;

      provided, however, any changed Debenture Stated Maturity Date and
Scheduled Redemption Date determined pursuant to clause (i) or early redemption
date determined pursuant to clause (ii) may not be a date earlier than August
15, 2010 or, if February 15, 2009 occurs during a Deferral Period, the fifth
anniversary of the first day of such Deferral Period.

      SECTION 10.3. Reset of Distribution Rate in Connection with Remarketings
and Related Changes in Terms.

            (a) As part of and in connection with each Remarketing, the
      Remarketing Agent shall reset the Distribution Rate, as contemplated by
      Section 10.1(a)(ii) and in accordance with the other provisions of this
      Article X, to a new rate (the "Reset Rate"), rounded to the nearest
      one-thousandth (0.001) of one percent per annum, that will apply

                                       57

to all Trust Preferred Securities (whether or not the Holders thereof
      participated in the Remarketing) if such Remarketing is Successful for
      each Distribution Period commencing on or after such Remarketing
      Settlement Date, subject to the following provisions and limitations:

                  (i) the Reset Rate in connection with a Remarketing for
            settlement on the Remarketing Settlement Date, if such date is on or
            prior to November 15, 2008, may not be reset to a rate per annum
            that exceeds the Reset Cap; and

                  (ii) the Reset Rate may not be less than 0% per annum in
            connection with any Remarketing.

            (b) If the Remarketing has been determined to be Successful in
      accordance with Section 10.4(e), by approximately 4:30 P.M., New York City
      time, on any Remarketing Date, the Remarketing Agent shall notify the
      Sponsor, the Property Trustee, the Debenture Trustee and the Stock
      Purchase Contract Agent that the Remarketing was Successful and the Reset
      Rate determined as part of such Remarketing in accordance with this
      Article X.

            (c) If a Remarketing is Successful, then commencing with the related
      Remarketing Settlement Date the Distribution Rate shall be reset to the
      Reset Rate determined in accordance with this Article X pursuant to such
      Remarketing and the other changes, if any, in the terms of the Debentures
      and the Trust Preferred Securities, as applicable, as notified by the
      Sponsor pursuant to Section 10.2, shall become effective (in accordance
      with the Indenture in the case of the Debentures).

            (d) If a Remarketing for a settlement on a Remarketing Settlement
      Date prior to February 15, 2009 is not Successful:

                  (i) no Trust Preferred Securities will be sold in such
            Remarketing;

                  (ii) the Distribution Rate will remain unchanged unless and
            until it is reset pursuant to a subsequent Remarketing in accordance
            with this Article X;

                  (iii) the other changes, if any, in the terms of the
            Debentures and the Trust Preferred Securities, as applicable, as
            notified by the Sponsor pursuant to Section 10.2, shall not become
            effective (whether pursuant to this Agreement in the case of the
            Trust Preferred Securities or pursuant to the Indenture in the case
            of the Debentures); and

                  (iv) the Sponsor, the Trust and the applicable Remarketing
            Agent shall attempt another Remarketing on the next succeeding date
            that is a Remarketing Settlement Date.

                                       58

(e) If a Remarketing for a settlement on the February 15, 2009
      Remarketing Settlement Date is not Successful:

                  (i) no Trust Preferred Securities will be sold in such
            Remarketing and no further attempts at Remarketing shall be made;

                  (ii) the Distribution Rate will remain unchanged and, in
            accordance with the Supplemental Indenture, the Debentures will
            continue to bear cash interest (and under this Trust Agreement the
            Trust Preferred Securities will continue to bear cash Distributions)
            at the Distribution Rate otherwise in effect, payable semi-annually
            on each February 15 and August 15 thereafter;

                  (iii) the other changes, if any, in the terms of the
            Debentures and the Trust Preferred Securities, as applicable, as
            notified by the Sponsor pursuant to clauses (a) through (e) of the
            second sentence in Section 10.2, shall not become effective (whether
            pursuant to this Trust Agreement in the case of the Trust Preferred
            Securities or pursuant to the Indenture in the case of the
            Debentures);

                  (iv) the Debenture Stated Maturity Date, Scheduled Redemption
            Date, and early redemption date for the Debentures and Trust
            Preferred Securities, will change in accordance with paragraph (f)
            of the second sentence of Section 10.2, as applicable;

                  (v) in the case of Trust Preferred Securities that are
            included in Normal Common Equity Units, such Trust Preferred
            Securities will be applied in satisfaction of the Holders'
            obligations under Stock Purchase Contracts in accordance with the
            Pledge Agreement; and

                  (vi) in the case of Separate Trust Preferred Securities, such
            Trust Preferred Securities will be returned to the related Holders
            in accordance with the Pledge Agreement and Holders of Separate
            Trust Preferred Securities will have the rights provided for in
            Section 10.5.

      SECTION 10.4. Remarketing Procedures.

            (a) The Property Trustee will give Holders hereunder, the Stock
      Purchase Contract Agreement provides the Stock Purchase Agent will give
      Holders (as defined therein) of Common Equity Units, and the Sponsor will
      request that DTC give to its participants holding Common Equity Units or
      Trust Preferred Securities, notice of a Remarketing at least 21 Business
      Days prior to the related Remarketing Date. Such notice will set forth:

                  (i) whether for Distribution Periods commencing on or after
            the Remarketing Settlement Date the Debentures will pay interest
            (and, accordingly, the Trust Preferred Securities will pay
            Distributions) in cash or instead will accrete interest and
            Distributions, as applicable, together with the applicable
            Distribution Dates and related record dates;

                                       59

(ii) any change in the Debenture Stated Maturity Date and
            Scheduled Redemption Date and, if applicable, the date on and after
            which the Sponsor will have the right to redeem the Debentures
            (resulting in a redemption by the Trust of the Trust Preferred
            Securities);

                  (iii) whether the Sponsor's obligations under the Debentures
            and the Guarantee Agreement will remain subordinated after the
            Remarketing Settlement Date;

                  (iv) any other changes in the terms of the Debentures or the
            Trust Preferred Securities notified by the Sponsor in connection
            with such Remarketing pursuant to Section 10.2 (including, if the
            Remarketing Settlement Date is February 15, 2009 and the Remarketing
            is a Failed Remarketing, any change in the Debenture Stated Maturity
            Date and Scheduled Redemption Date and, if applicable, the date on
            or after which the Sponsor will have the right to redeem the
            Debentures (resulting in a redemption by the Sponsor of the Common
            Equity Units));

                  (v) the procedures a beneficial owner must follow if it holds
            its Trust Preferred Securities as a component of Normal Common
            Equity Units to elect not to participate in the Remarketing and the
            date by which such election must be made;

                  (vi) the procedures a beneficial owner must follow if it holds
            Separate Trust Preferred Securities to elect to participate in the
            Remarketing; and

                  (vii) in the case of a Remarketing for settlement on the
            February 15, 2009 Remarketing Settlement Date, the procedures an
            Owner must follow in the event such Remarketing is a Failed
            Remarketing if such Owner holds Separate Trust Preferred Securities
            to exercise its Put Right.

            (b) On any Remarketing Date, all outstanding Trust Preferred
      Securities included in Normal Common Equity Units will be tendered or
      deemed tendered to the Remarketing Agent for Remarketing unless the Holder
      thereof elects not to participate in the Remarketing. Each Holder of Trust
      Preferred Securities included in Normal Common Equity Units, by purchasing
      such Trust Preferred Securities, agrees to have such Trust Preferred
      Securities remarketed on any Remarketing Date (unless such Holder elects
      not to participate in the Remarketing as provided herein) and authorizes
      the Remarketing Agent to take any and all action on its behalf necessary
      to effect the Remarketing. On any Remarketing Date, each Holder of Trust
      Preferred Securities included in Normal Common Equity Units will have the
      right to elect not to have its Trust Preferred Securities remarketed by
      giving notice and taking the other actions provided for in Section 5.05 of
      the Pledge Agreement.

            (c) Each Holder of Separate Trust Preferred Securities may elect to
      have such Holder's Separate Trust Preferred Securities remarketed in any
      Remarketing. A Holder making such an election must, pursuant to the Pledge
      Agreement, notify the Custodial Agent and deliver such Separate Trust
      Preferred Securities to the Custodial Agent on or prior to 5:00 P.M., New
      York City time, on or prior to the fifth Business Day

                                       60

immediately preceding the applicable Remarketing Date (but no earlier than
      the Distribution Date immediately preceding the applicable Remarketing
      Date). Any such notice and delivery may not be conditioned upon the level
      at which the Reset Rate is established in the Remarketing or any other
      condition. Any such notice and delivery may be withdrawn on or prior to
      5:00 P.M., New York City time, on the fifth Business Day immediately
      preceding the applicable Remarketing Date in accordance with the
      provisions set forth in the Pledge Agreement. Any such notice and delivery
      not withdrawn by such time will be irrevocable with respect to such
      Remarketing. Pursuant to Section 5.07(c) of the Pledge Agreement, promptly
      after 11:00 A.M., New York City time, on the Business Day immediately
      preceding the applicable Remarketing Date, the Custodial Agent, based on
      the notices and deliveries received by it prior to such time, shall notify
      the Remarketing Agent of the Initial Liquidation Amount of Separate Trust
      Preferred Securities to be tendered for Remarketing and shall cause such
      Separate Trust Preferred Securities to be presented to the Remarketing
      Agent.

            (d) If the Remarketing on a Remarketing Date is Successful, then the
      Remarketing Agent shall deduct the Remarketing Agent's Fee to which it is
      entitled as provided in Section 10.1 and the related Remarketing Agreement
      from the proceeds of such Remarketing and remit the remaining proceeds to
      the Property Trustee in accordance with Section 10.1(a)(iii) for
      application as provided therein.

            (e) If by 4:00 P.M., New York City time, on any Remarketing Date the
      Remarketing Agent has found buyers for all of the Trust Preferred
      Securities offered in the Remarketing in accordance with this Article X, a
      Successful Remarketing shall be deemed to have occurred. In the event of a
      Successful Remarketing, the Sponsor shall issue a press release through
      Bloomberg Business News or other reasonable means of distribution stating
      that such Remarketing was successful and specifying the Reset Rate and
      shall post such information on its website on the World Wide Web.

            (f) If, by 4:00 P.M., New York City time, on any Remarketing Date
      the Remarketing Agent is unable to find buyers for all of the Trust
      Preferred Securities offered in the Remarketing in accordance with this
      Article X, a Failed Remarketing shall be deemed to have occurred. In the
      event of a Failed Remarketing, the Sponsor shall issue a press release
      through Bloomberg Business News or other reasonable means of distribution
      stating that such Remarketing was a Failed Remarketing and, if such Failed
      Remarketing was for settlement on February 15, 2009, stating the aggregate
      principal amount of Debentures that the Sponsor will be required to
      repurchase as required pursuant to Section 2.7 of the Supplemental
      Indenture, and the related aggregate Accreted Liquidation Amount of Trust
      Preferred Securities that the Trust will be required to purchase pursuant
      to Section 10.5, and publish such information on its website on the World
      Wide Web.

            (g) The right of each Holder (whether of Separate Trust Preferred
      Securities or of Trust Preferred Securities included in Normal Common
      Equity Units) to have its Trust Preferred Securities remarketed and sold
      in connection with any Remarketing shall be limited to the extent that (i)
      the Remarketing Agent conducts a Remarketing pursuant to the terms of the
      Remarketing Agreement, (ii) the Remarketing Agent is able to find a

                                       61

purchaser or purchasers for the Trust Preferred Securities offered in the
      Remarketing in accordance with this Article X and the Remarketing
      Agreement, and (iii) the purchaser or purchasers deliver the purchase
      price therefor to the Remarketing Agent as and when required.

            (h) Neither the Property Trustee, the Sponsor nor the Remarketing
      Agent shall be obligated in any case to provide funds to make payment upon
      tender of Trust Preferred Securities for remarketing.

      SECTION 10.5. Put Right.

            (a) Subject to Section 10.5(b), if there has been a Final Failed
      Remarketing, Holders of Trust Preferred Securities will, subject to this
      Section 10.5, have the right (the "Put Right") to require:

                  (i) the Property Trustee, as Holder (as defined in the
            Indenture) of Debentures, to exercise its right under Section 2.7 of
            the Supplemental Indenture to require the Sponsor to purchase
            thereunder a Like Amount of Debentures; and

                  (ii) as a consequence, to require the Sponsor to purchase on
            February 15, 2010 under and in accordance with such Section 2.7 of
            the Supplemental Indenture a Like Amount of Debentures for
            consideration per Debenture (the "Put Consideration") of cash in an
            amount equal to 100% of their Accreted Principal Amount as of such
            date plus a junior subordinated note of the Sponsor, bearing
            interest at the rate of 4.91% per annum, in the amount of the
            accrued and unpaid interest (including Additional Interest) to but
            excluding such date on such Debentures and payable on August 15,
            2010 or, if February 15, 2010 is during a Deferral Period and such
            Deferral Period ends after August 15, 2010, the fifth anniversary of
            the first day of such Deferral Period.

      The Property Trustee will remit to each Holder of Separate Trust Preferred
Securities making such election the Put Consideration upon receipt of the Put
Consideration from the Sponsor.

            (b) The Put Right of a Holder of Separate Trust Preferred Securities
      will only be exercisable upon delivery of a notice to the Property Trustee
      by such Holder on or prior to 11:00 A.M., New York City time, on the
      second Business Day prior to the February 15, 2010 Remarketing Settlement
      Date. A Holder may give such notice by, when it makes its election under
      Section 10.4(c) to cause its Trust Preferred Securities to be offered in
      the Remarketing, stating in such notice that, in the event such
      Remarketing is in connection with the February 15, 2010 Remarketing
      Settlement Date and if such Remarketing is a Failed Remarketing, then such
      Holder makes the election provided for under this Section 10.5.

            (c) The rights of Holders of Trust Preferred Securities included in
      Normal Common Equity Units, including their Put Rights, will be subject to
      the security interest in favor of the Sponsor provided for in the Pledge
      Agreement.

                                       62

SECTION 10.6. Common Securities.

      The terms of the Common Securities shall automatically be modified as and
when the terms of Trust Preferred Securities change pursuant to this Article,
with the consequence that the terms of the Trust Preferred Securities shall at
all times be identical to the terms of the Common Securities, except (i) for the
subordination of the Common Securities pursuant to Section 4.3 and (ii) that
Section 10.5 shall apply only to the Trust Preferred Securities.

                                   ARTICLE XI
                   OTHER COMMON EQUITY UNIT RELATED PROVISIONS

      SECTION 11.1. Tax Treatment.

      Each Holder of Trust Preferred Securities agrees, by acceptance of Trust
Preferred Securities, and each Owner agrees, by acceptance of a beneficial
interest in Trust Preferred Securities, to treat for all United States federal
income tax purposes (i) the Trust as a grantor trust, (ii) itself as the owner
of the Stock Purchase Contracts and the related ownership interest in the Trust
Preferred Securities or treasury securities pledged under the Pledge Agreement,
as the case may be, (iii) the Debentures as indebtedness of the Sponsor, and
(iv) the fair market value of each undivided beneficial interest in each
ownership interest in the Trust Preferred Securities included in each Normal
Common Equity Unit as $12.50 and the fair market value of each Stock Purchase
Contract as $0.

                                  ARTICLE XII
                            MISCELLANEOUS PROVISIONS

      SECTION 12.1. Limitation of Rights of Holders.

      Except as set forth in Section 9.2, the death or incapacity of any person
having an interest, beneficial or otherwise, in Trust Securities shall not
operate to terminate this Trust Agreement, nor dissolve or annul the Trust, nor
entitle the legal representatives or heirs of such Person or any Holder for such
person, to claim an accounting, take any action or bring any proceeding in any
court for a partition or winding up of the arrangements contemplated hereby, nor
otherwise affect the rights, obligations and liabilities of the parties hereto
or any of them.

      SECTION 12.2. Amendment.

            (a) This Trust Agreement may be amended from time to time by the
      Administrative Trustees and the Holders of all of the Common Securities,
      without the consent of any Holder of the Trust Preferred Securities, (i)
      to cure any ambiguity, correct or supplement any provision herein that may
      be inconsistent with any other provision herein, or to make any other
      provisions with respect to matters or questions arising under this Trust
      Agreement, which shall not be inconsistent with the other provisions of
      this Trust Agreement, or (ii) to modify, eliminate or add to any
      provisions of this Trust Agreement to such extent as shall be necessary to
      ensure that the Trust will not be taxable as a corporation or classified
      as other than a grantor trust for United States Federal income tax
      purposes at all times that any Trust Securities are outstanding, to ensure
      that the Trust will not be required to register as an "investment company"
      under the

                                       63

Investment Company Act or to ensure the treatment of the Trust Preferred
      Securities as Tier 1 regulatory capital under the prevailing Federal
      Reserve rules and regulations; provided, however, that in the case of
      either clause (i) or (ii), such action shall not adversely affect in any
      material respect the interests of any Holder. Any such amendment shall
      become effective when notice is given to the Holders of the Trust
      Preferred Securities.

            (b) Except as provided in Section 12.2(c), any provision of this
      Trust Agreement may be amended by the Administrative Trustees, the
      Property Trustee, and the Holders of all of the Common Securities and with
      (i) the consent of Holders of at least a Majority in Accreted Liquidation
      Amount of the Trust Preferred Securities, and (ii) receipt by the Trustees
      of an Opinion of Counsel to the effect that such amendment or the exercise
      of any power granted to the Trustees or the Administrative Trustees in
      accordance with such amendment will not affect the Trust's status as a
      grantor trust or cause the Trust to be taxable as a corporation or as
      other than a grantor trust for United States Federal income tax purposes
      or affect the Trust's exemption from status as an "investment company"
      under the Investment Company Act.

            (c) In addition to and notwithstanding any other provision in this
      Trust Agreement, without the consent of each affected Holder (such consent
      being obtained in accordance with Section 6.3 or 6.6 hereof), this Trust
      Agreement may not be amended to (i) change the amount or timing of any
      Distribution on the Trust Securities or otherwise adversely affect the
      amount of any Distribution required to be made in respect of the Trust
      Securities as of a specified date, or (ii) restrict the right of a Holder
      to institute suit for the enforcement of any such payment on or after such
      date; and notwithstanding any other provision herein, without the
      unanimous consent of the Holders (such consent being obtained in
      accordance with Section 6.3 or 6.6 hereof), this paragraph (c) of this
      Section 12.2 may not be amended.

            (d) If any proposed amendment to the Trust Agreement provides for,
      or the Trustees otherwise propose to effect, (i) any action that would
      adversely affect in any material respect the powers, preferences or
      special rights of the Trust Preferred Securities, whether by way of
      amendment to the Trust Agreement or otherwise, or (ii) the dissolution and
      winding-up of the Trust, other than pursuant to the terms of this Trust
      Agreement, then the Holders of Outstanding Trust Preferred Securities as a
      class will be entitled to vote on such amendment or proposal and such
      amendment or proposal shall not be effective except with the approval of
      the Holders of at least a Majority in Accreted Liquidation Amount of the
      Trust Preferred Securities. Notwithstanding any other provision of this
      Trust Agreement, no amendment to this Trust Agreement may be made if, as a
      result of such amendment, it would cause the Trust to be taxable as a
      corporation or classified as other than a grantor trust for United States
      federal income tax purposes.

            (e) Notwithstanding any other provisions of this Trust Agreement, no
      Trustee shall enter into or consent to any amendment to this Trust
      Agreement that would cause the Trust to fail or cease to qualify for the
      exemption from status as an "investment company" under the Investment
      Company Act or to be taxable as a corporation or to be classified as other
      than a grantor trust for United States Federal income tax purposes.

                                       64

(f) Notwithstanding anything in this Trust Agreement to the
      contrary, without the consent of the Sponsor and the Administrative
      Trustees, this Trust Agreement may not be amended in a manner that imposes
      any additional obligation on the Sponsor or the Administrative Trustees.

            (g) Notwithstanding anything in this Trust Agreement to the
      contrary, without the consent of the Property Trustee, this Trust
      Agreement may not be amended in a manner that imposes any additional
      obligation on, or adversely affects any rights, immunities or indemnities
      of, the Property Trustee.

            (h) Notwithstanding anything in this Trust Agreement to the
      contrary, without the consent of the Delaware Trustee, this Trust
      Agreement may not be amended in a manner that imposes any additional
      obligation on, or adversely affects any rights, immunities or indemnities
      of, the Delaware Trustee.

            (i) In the event that any amendment to this Trust Agreement is made,
      the Administrative Trustees shall promptly provide to the Sponsor and the
      Property Trustee a copy of such amendment.

            (j) Neither the Property Trustee nor the Delaware Trustee shall be
      required to enter into any amendment to this Trust Agreement that affects
      its own rights, duties or immunities under this Trust Agreement. The
      Property Trustee shall be entitled to receive an Opinion of Counsel and an
      Officers' Certificate stating that any amendment to this Trust Agreement
      is in compliance with this Trust Agreement.

      SECTION 12.3. Separability.

      In case any provision in this Trust Agreement or in the Trust Securities
Certificates shall be invalid, illegal or unenforceable, the validity, legality
and enforceability of the remaining provisions shall not in any way be affected
or impaired thereby.

      SECTION 12.4. Governing Law.

      This Trust Agreement and the rights and obligations of each of the
Holders, the Trust, the Sponsor and the Trustees with respect to this Trust
Agreement and the Trust Securities shall be construed in accordance with and
governed by the laws of the State of Delaware without reference to its conflicts
of laws provisions.

      SECTION 12.5. Payments Due on Non-Business Day.

      If the date fixed for any payment on any Trust Security shall be a day
that is not a Business Day, then such payment need not be made on such date but
may be made on the next succeeding day that is a Business Day, with the same
force and effect as though made on the date fixed for such payment, and no
Distributions shall accumulate on such unpaid amount for the period after such
date.

                                       65

SECTION 12.6. Successors.

      This Trust Agreement shall be binding upon and shall inure to the benefit
of any successor to the Sponsor, the Trust and any Trustee, including any
successor by operation of law. Except in connection with a consolidation, merger
or sale involving the Sponsor that is permitted under Article X of the Base
Indenture and pursuant to which the assignee agrees in writing to perform the
Sponsor's obligations hereunder, the Sponsor shall not assign its obligations
hereunder.

      SECTION 12.7. Headings.

      The Article and Section headings are for convenience only and shall not
affect the construction of this Trust Agreement.

      SECTION 12.8. Reports, Notices and Demands.

      Any report, notice, demand or other communication that by any provision of
this Trust Agreement is required or permitted to be given or served to or upon
any Holder, the Sponsor or the Sponsor may be given or served in writing by
deposit thereof, first-class postage prepaid, in the United States mail, hand
delivery or facsimile transmission, in each case, addressed, (a) in the case of
a Holder of Trust Preferred Securities, to such Holder as such Holder's name and
address may appear on the Securities Register and (b) in the case of the Holder
of the Common Securities or the Sponsor, to MetLife, Inc., 27-01 Queens Plaza
North, Long Island City, New York 11101, facsimile 212-578-0266, Attention:
Treasurer, or to such other address as may be specified in a written notice by
the Sponsor to the Property Trustee. Such notice, demand or other communication
to or upon a Holder shall be deemed to have been sufficiently given or made, for
all purposes, upon hand delivery, mailing or transmission. Such notice, demand
or other communication to or upon the Sponsor or the Holder of the Common
Securities shall be deemed to have been sufficiently given or made only upon
actual receipt of the writing by the Sponsor or the Holder of the Common
Securities, as the case may be. Any notice, demand or other communication that
by any provision of this Trust Agreement is required or permitted to be given or
served to or upon the Trust, the Property Trustee, the Delaware Trustee, the
Administrative Trustees or the Trust shall be given in writing addressed to such
Person as follows: (a) with respect to the Property Trustee, to J.P. Morgan
Trust Company, National Association, Worldwide Securities Services, 4 New York
Plaza, 15th Floor, New York, New York 10004, Attention: Worldwide Securities
Services, Telephone: (212) 623-5233, Facsimile: (212) 623-6215; (b) with respect
to the Delaware Trustee, to Chase Bank USA, National Association, c/o JPMorgan
Chase Bank, 500 Stanton Christiana Road, 3rd Floor/OPS4, Newark, DE 19713,
Attention: Worldwide Securities Services; (c) with respect to the Administrative
Trustees, to them at c/o Chase Bank USA, National Association, 500 Stanton
Christiana Road, 3rd Floor/OPS4, Newark, Delaware 19713, Attention:
Institutional Trust Services, facsimile: (302) 552-6280; and (d) with respect to
the Trust, to its principal office specified in Section 2.2, with a copy to the
Property Trustee. Such notice, demand or other communication to or upon the
Trust, the Delaware Trustee, the Property Trustee or the Administrative Trustees
shall be deemed to have been sufficiently given or made only upon actual receipt
of the writing by the Trust, the Property Trustee or such Administrative
Trustee.

                                       66

SECTION 12.9. Agreement Not to Petition.

      Each of the Trustees and the Sponsor agree for the benefit of the Holders
that, until at least one year and one day after the Trust has been dissolved in
accordance with Article IX, they shall not file, or join in the filing of, a
petition against the Trust under any bankruptcy, insolvency, reorganization or
other similar law (including the United States Bankruptcy Code) (collectively,
"Bankruptcy Laws") or otherwise join in the commencement of any proceeding
against the Trust under any Bankruptcy Law. If the Sponsor takes action in
violation of this Section 12.9, the Property Trustee agrees, for the benefit of
Holders, that at the expense of the Sponsor, it shall file an answer with the
bankruptcy court or otherwise properly contest the filing of such petition by
the Sponsor against the Trust or the commencement of such action and raise the
defense that the Sponsor has agreed in writing not to take such action and
should be stopped and precluded therefrom and such other defenses, if any, as
counsel for the Trustee or the Trust may assert.

      SECTION 12.10. Trust Indenture Act; Conflict with Trust Indenture Act.

            (a) Except as otherwise expressly provided herein, the Trust
      Indenture Act shall apply as a matter of contract to this Trust Agreement
      for purposes of interpretation, construction and defining the rights and
      obligations hereunder, and this Trust Agreement, the Sponsor and the
      Property Trustee shall be deemed for all purposes hereof to be subject to
      and governed by the Trust Indenture Act to the same extent as would be the
      case if this Trust Agreement were qualified under that Act on the date
      hereof. Except as otherwise expressly provided herein, if and to the
      extent that any provision of this Trust Agreement limits, qualifies or
      conflicts with the duties imposed by Sections 310 to 317, inclusive, of
      the Trust Indenture Act, such imposed duties shall control.

            (b) The Property Trustee shall be the only Trustee that is a trustee
      for the purposes of the Trust Indenture Act.

            (c) The application of the Trust Indenture Act to this Trust
      Agreement shall not affect the nature of the Trust Securities as equity
      securities representing undivided beneficial interests in the assets of
      the Trust.

      SECTION 12.11. Acceptance of Terms of Trust Agreement, Guarantee Agreement
and Indenture.

THE RECEIPT AND ACCEPTANCE OF A TRUST SECURITY OR ANY INTEREST THEREIN BY OR ON
BEHALF OF A HOLDER OR ANY BENEFICIAL OWNER, WITHOUT ANY SIGNATURE OR FURTHER
MANIFESTATION OF ASSENT, SHALL CONSTITUTE THE UNCONDITIONAL ACCEPTANCE BY THE
HOLDER AND ALL OTHERS HAVING A BENEFICIAL INTEREST IN SUCH TRUST SECURITY OF ALL
THE TERMS AND PROVISIONS OF THIS TRUST AGREEMENT, THE GUARANTEE AGREEMENT AND
THE INDENTURE, AND AGREEMENT TO THE SUBORDINATION PROVISIONS AND OTHER TERMS OF
THE GUARANTEE AGREEMENT AND THE INDENTURE, AND SHALL CONSTITUTE THE AGREEMENT OF
THE TRUST, SUCH HOLDER AND SUCH OTHERS THAT THE TERMS AND PROVISIONS OF THIS
TRUST

                                       67

AGREEMENT SHALL BE BINDING, OPERATIVE AND EFFECTIVE AS BETWEEN THE TRUST AND
SUCH HOLDER AND SUCH OTHERS.

      SECTION 12.12. Counterparts.

      This Trust Agreement may contain more than one counterpart of the
signature page and this Trust Agreement may be executed by the affixing of the
signature of each of the parties to one of such counterpart signature pages. All
of such counterpart signature pages shall be read as though one, and they shall
have the same force and effect as though all of the signers had signed a single
signature page.

[REMAINDER OF THIS PAGE INTENTIONALLY LEFT BLANK]

                                       68

IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto have executed this Amended and
Restated Declaration of Trust.

                                             METLIFE, INC., as Sponsor

                                             By:   /s/ Joseph Prochaska, Jr.
                                                 -------------------------------
                                                 Name:
                                                 Title:

                                             J.P. MORGAN TRUST COMPANY,
                                             NATIONAL ASSOCIATION, as Property
                                             Trustee

                                             By:  /s/ Paul J. Schmalzel
                                                 -------------------------------
                                                 Name:  Paul J. Schmalzel
                                                 Title: Authorized Signer

                                             CHASE BANK USA, NATIONAL
                                             ASSOCIATION, as Delaware Trustee

                                             By:  /s/ John J. Cashin
                                                 -------------------------------
                                                 Name:  John J. Cashin
                                                 Title: Vice President

                                             ANTHONY J. WILLIAMSON
                                             as Administrative Trustee

                                             By:  /s/ Anthony J. Williamson
                                                 -------------------------------
                                                 Name:
                                                 Title:

                                             PHILIP SALMON,
                                             as Administrative Trustee

                                             By:  /s/ Philip Salmon
                                                 -------------------------------
                                                 Name:
                                                 Title:

                                       69

THOMAS CURRAN,
                                             as Administrative Trustee

                                             By:  /s/ Thomas Curran
                                                --------------------------------
                                                 Name:
                                                 Title:

                                       70

STATE OF     New York )
                      )ss
COUNTY OF    Queens   )

      On before me, the undersigned, a Notary Public in and for
the State of New York, County of New York, personally appeared Joseph Prochaska,
personally known to me (or proved to me on the basis of satisfactory evidence)
to be the person whose name is subscribed to the within instrument, and
acknowledged to me that he/she executed the same in his/her authorized capacity,
and that the foregoing instrument is the free act and deed of the entity upon
behalf of which such person acted.

                                             WITNESS my hand and official seal

                                             SIGNATURE:  /s/ Irina Kristen Azer

(This area for official notarial seal)

STATE OF     New York )
                      )ss
COUNTY OF    Queens   )

      On before me, the undersigned, a Notary Public in and for
the State of New York, County of New York, personally appeared Anthony J.
Williamson, personally known to me (or proved to me on the basis of satisfactory
evidence) to be the person whose name is subscribed to the within instrument,
and acknowledged to me that he/she executed the same in his/her authorized
capacity, and that the foregoing instrument is the free act and deed of the
entity upon behalf of which such person acted.

                                             WITNESS my hand and official seal

                                             SIGNATURE:  /s/ Irina Kristen Azer

                                       71

(This area for official notarial seal)

STATE OF     New York )
                      )ss
COUNTY OF    Queens   )

      On before me, the undersigned, a Notary Public in and for
the State of New York, County of New York, personally appeared Philip Salmon,
personally known to me (or proved to me on the basis of satisfactory evidence)
to be the person whose name is subscribed to the within instrument, and
acknowledged to me that he/she executed the same in his/her authorized capacity,
and that the foregoing instrument is the free act and deed of the entity upon
behalf of which such person acted.

                                             WITNESS my hand and official seal

                                             SIGNATURE:  /s/ Irina Kristen Azer

 (This area for official notarial seal)

STATE OF     New York )
                      )ss
COUNTY OF    Queens   )

      On before me, the undersigned, a Notary Public in and for
the State of New York, County of New York, personally appeared Thomas Curran,
personally known to me (or proved to me on the basis of satisfactory evidence)
to be the person whose name is subscribed to the within instrument, and
acknowledged to me that he/she executed the same in his/her authorized capacity,
and that the foregoing instrument is the free act and deed of the entity upon
behalf of which such person acted.

                                             WITNESS my hand and official seal

                                             SIGNATURE:  /s/ Irina Kristen Azer

                                       72

(This area for official notarial seal)

STATE OF     New York )
                      )ss
COUNTY OF    New York )

      On before me, the undersigned, a Notary Public in and for
the County and State of New York, personally appeared Paul J. Schmalzel,
personally known to me (or proved to me on the basis of satisfactory evidence)
to be the person whose name is subscribed to the within instrument, and
acknowledged to me that he/she executed the same in his/her authorized capacity,
and that the foregoing instrument is the free act and deed of the entity upon
behalf of which such person acted.

                                             WITNESS my hand and official seal

                                             SIGNATURE:  /s/ Emily Fayan

(This area for official notarial seal)

STATE OF     Delaware   )
                        )ss
COUNTY OF    New Castle )

      On before me, the undersigned, a Notary Public in and for
the State of Delaware, New Castle County, personally appeared John J. Cashin,
personally known to me (or proved to me on the basis of satisfactory evidence)
to be the person whose name is subscribed to the within instrument, and
acknowledged to me that he/she executed the same in his/her authorized capacity,
and that the foregoing instrument is the free act and deed of the entity upon
behalf of which such person acted.

                                             WITNESS my hand and official seal

                                             SIGNATURE:  /s/ Sarika M. Sheth
(This area for official notarial seal)

                                       73

CERTIFICATE OF AMENDMENT
                                       TO
                              CERTIFICATE OF TRUST
                                       OF
                            METLIFE CAPITAL TRUST III

            THIS Certificate of Amendment to Certificate of Trust of MetLife
Capital Trust III (the "Trust"), is being duly executed and filed by the
undersigned trustee to amend the Certificate of Trust of the Trust, dated May
17, 2001 (the "Certificate of Trust"), pursuant to the Delaware Statutory Trust
Act (12 Del. C. Section 3801, et seq.) (the "Act").

            1. Name. The name of the statutory trust is MetLife Capital Trust
III.

            2. Amendment to Certificate of Trust. The Certificate of Trust is
hereby amended by amending and restating Section 2 thereof in its entirety as
follows:

            "2. Delaware Trustee. The name and business address of the trustee
of the Trust with a principal place of business in the State of Delaware is:

                             Chase Manhattan Bank USA, National Association
                             500 Stanton Christiana Road
                             OPS4/3rd Floor
                             Newark, Delaware 19713
                             Attn: "Institutional Trust Services"

            3. Effective Date. This Certificate of Amendment shall be effective
upon filing.

            IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the undersigned trustees of the Trust has
executed this Certificate of Amendment in accordance with Section 3811(a)(2) of
the Act.

                                             CHASE MANHATTAN BANK USA,
                                             NATIONAL ASSOCIATION,
                                             not in its individual capacity but
                                             solely as trustee

                                             By: /s/ John J. Cashin
                                                 ------------------------------
                                                 Name: John J. Cashin
                                                 Title: Vice President

                                      A-1

EXHIBIT B

                     [FORM OF COMMON SECURITIES CERTIFICATE]
  THIS CERTIFICATE IS NOT TRANSFERABLE EXCEPT IN COMPLIANCE WITH APPLICABLE LAW
                     AND SECTION 5.10 OF THE TRUST AGREEMENT

Certificate Number _______________       Number of Common Securities __________

                    Certificate Evidencing Common Securities
                          of MetLife Capital Trust III

                            6.375% Common Securities

             (Initial Liquidation Amount $1,000 per Common Security)

      MetLife Capital Trust III, a statutory trust created under the laws of the
State of Delaware (the "Trust"), hereby certifies that ________________ (the
"Holder") is the registered owner of _________________ (___________) Common
Securities of the Trust representing undivided common beneficial interests in
the assets of the Trust and designated the 6.375% Common Securities (Initial
Liquidation Amount $1,000 per Common Security) (the "Common Securities"). Except
in accordance with the Trust Agreement (as defined below), the Common Securities
are not transferable and, to the fullest extent permitted by law, any attempted
transfer hereof other than in accordance therewith shall be void. The
designations, rights, privileges, restrictions, preferences and other terms and
provisions of the Common Securities are set forth in, and this certificate and
the Common Securities represented hereby are issued and shall in all respects be
subject to the terms and provisions of, the Amended and Restated Declaration of
Trust of the Trust, dated as of June 21, 2005, as the same may be amended from
time to time (the "Trust Agreement"), among MetLife, Inc., as Sponsor, J.P.
Morgan Trust Company, National Association, as Property Trustee, Chase Bank USA,
National Association, as Delaware Trustee, the Administrative Trustees named
therein, and the Holders of Trust Securities, including the designation of the
terms of the Common Securities as set forth therein. The Trust will furnish a
copy of the Trust Agreement to the Holder without charge upon written request to
the Trust at its principal place of business or registered office. Upon receipt
of this certificate, the Holder is bound by the Trust Agreement and is entitled
to the benefits thereunder.

      Terms used but not defined herein have the meanings set forth in the Trust
Agreement.

                                      B-1

IN WITNESS WHEREOF, one of the Administrative Trustees of the Trust has
executed this certificate this _______ day of ____________, 20__.

                                             METLIFE CAPITAL TRUST III

                                             By: ____________________________
                                                 Name:
                                                 Title: Administrative Trustee

                                      B-2

PROPERTY TRUSTEE'S CERTIFICATE OF AUTHENTICATION

            This is one of the Common Securities referred to in the above
mentioned Trust Agreement.

Dated: _______________

                                             _________________________________
                                             As Property Trustee

                                             By: _____________________________
                                                 Name:
                                                 Title: Administrative Trustee

                                      B-3

EXHIBIT C

                [FORM OF TRUST PREFERRED SECURITIES CERTIFICATE]

      [This Trust Preferred Securities Certificate is a Book-Entry Trust
Preferred Securities Certificate within the meaning of the Trust Agreement
hereinafter referred to and is registered in the name of a Clearing Agency or a
nominee of a Clearing Agency. This Trust Preferred Securities Certificate is
exchangeable for Trust Preferred Securities Certificates registered in the name
of a person other than the Clearing Agency or its nominee only in the limited
circumstances described in the Trust Agreement and may not be transferred except
as a whole by the Clearing Agency to a nominee of the Clearing Agency or by a
nominee of the Clearing Agency to the Clearing Agency or another nominee of the
Clearing Agency, except in the limited circumstances described in the Trust
Agreement.

      Unless this Trust Preferred Securities Certificate is presented by an
authorized representative of The Depository Trust Company, a New York
Corporation ("DTC"), to MetLife Capital Trust III or its agent for registration
of transfer, exchange or payment, and any Trust Preferred Securities Certificate
issued is registered in the name of Cede & Co. or such other name as is
requested by an authorized representative of DTC (and any payment is made to
Cede & Co. or to such other entity as is requested by an authorized
representative of DTC), ANY TRANSFER, PLEDGE OR OTHER USE HEREOF FOR VALUE OR
OTHERWISE BY OR TO A PERSON IS WRONGFUL inasmuch as the registered owner hereof,
Cede & Co., has an interest herein.]1

      NO EMPLOYEE BENEFIT OR OTHER PLAN SUBJECT TO TITLE I OF THE EMPLOYEE
RETIREMENT INCOME SECURITY ACT OF 1974, AS AMENDED ("ERISA"), OR SECTION 4975 OF
THE INTERNAL REVENUE CODE OF 1986, AS AMENDED (THE "CODE") (EACH, A "PLAN"), NO
ENTITY WHOSE UNDERLYING ASSETS INCLUDE "PLAN ASSETS" BY REASON OF ANY PLAN'S
INVESTMENT IN THE ENTITY (A "PLAN ASSET ENTITY"), AND NO PERSON INVESTING "PLAN
ASSETS" OF ANY PLAN, MAY ACQUIRE OR HOLD THIS TRUST PREFERRED SECURITIES
CERTIFICATE OR ANY INTEREST HEREIN, UNLESS SUCH ACQUISITION OR HOLDING WILL NOT
RESULT IN A PROHIBITED TRANSACTION UNDER ERISA SECTION 406 OR CODE SECTION 4975,
OR SUCH PURCHASER OR HOLDER IS ELIGIBLE FOR THE EXEMPTIVE RELIEF AVAILABLE UNDER
U.S. DEPARTMENT OF LABOR PROHIBITED TRANSACTION CLASS EXEMPTION ("PTCE") 96-23,
95-60, 91-38, 90-1 OR 84-14 OR ANOTHER APPLICABLE EXEMPTION WITH RESPECT TO SUCH
PURCHASE OR HOLDING AND, IN THE CASE OF ANY PURCHASER OR HOLDER RELYING ON ANY
EXEMPTION OTHER THAN PTCE 96-23, 95-60, 91-38, 90-1 OR 84-14 OR U.S. DEPARTMENT
OF LABOR REGULATION SECTION 2550.401c-1, HAS COMPLIED WITH ANY REQUEST BY THE
SPONSOR OR THE TRUST FOR AN OPINION OF COUNSEL OR OTHER EVIDENCE WITH RESPECT TO
THE AVAILABILITY OF SUCH EXEMPTION. ANY PURCHASER OR HOLDER OF THIS TRUST
PREFERRED SECURITIES CERTIFICATE OR ANY INTEREST HEREIN WILL BE DEEMED TO HAVE
REPRESENTED BY ITS PURCHASE AND HOLDING HEREOF THAT (A) IT IS NOT A PLAN OR A
PLAN ASSET ENTITY AND IS NOT PURCHASING SUCH SECURITIES ON BEHALF OF OR WITH
"PLAN ASSETS" OF ANY PLAN, (B) ITS

                                      C-1

PURCHASE AND HOLDING OF SUCH SECURITIES WILL NOT RESULT IN A PROHIBITED
TRANSACTION UNDER ERISA SECTION 406 OR CODE SECTION 4975, OR (C) IT IS ELIGIBLE
FOR THE EXEMPTIVE RELIEF AVAILABLE UNDER PTCE 96-23, 95-60, 91-38, 90-1 OR 84-14
OR ANOTHER APPLICABLE EXEMPTION WITH RESPECT TO SUCH PURCHASE OR HOLDING.

----------------------
1  Insert on Global Certificates only.

                                      C-2

Certificate Number __________       Number of Trust Preferred Securities________
                                  CUSIP NO. [-]

           Certificate Evidencing Series B Trust Preferred Securities
                          of MetLife Capital Trust III
                    4.91% Series B Trust Preferred Securities
       (Initial Liquidation Amount $1,000 per Trust Preferred Securities)

      MetLife Capital Trust III, a statutory trust created under the laws of the
State of Delaware (the "Trust"), hereby certifies that (the "Holder") is the
registered owner of ________________ Trust Preferred Securities of the Trust
representing an undivided preferred beneficial interest in the assets of the
Trust and designated the MetLife Capital Trust III 4.91% Series B Trust
Preferred Securities (Initial Liquidation Amount $1,000 per Trust Preferred
Securities) (the "Trust Preferred Securities"). The Trust Preferred Securities
are transferable on the books and records of the Trust, in person or by a duly
authorized attorney, upon surrender of this certificate duly endorsed and in
proper form for transfer as provided in the Trust Agreement (as defined below).
The designations, rights, privileges, restrictions, preferences and other terms
and provisions of the Trust Preferred Securities are set forth in, and this
certificate and the Trust Preferred Securities represented hereby are issued and
shall in all respects be subject to the terms and provisions of, the Amended and
Restated Declaration of Trust of the Trust, dated as of June 21, 2005, as the
same may be amended from time to time (the "Trust Agreement"), among MetLife,
Inc., as Sponsor, J.P. Morgan Trust Company, National Association, as Property
Trustee, Chase Bank USA, National Association, as Delaware Trustee, the
Administrative Trustees named therein, and the Holders of Trust Securities,
including the designation of the terms of the Trust Preferred Securities as set
forth therein. The Holder is entitled to the benefits of the Guarantee
Agreement, dated as of June 21, 2005, as the same may be amended from time to
time (the "Guarantee Agreement"), by and between MetLife, Inc., as Guarantor,
and J.P. Morgan Trust Company, National Association, as Guarantee Trustee, to
the extent provided therein. The Trust will furnish a copy of the Trust
Agreement and the Guarantee Agreement to the Holder without charge upon written
request to the Trust at its principal place of business or registered office.

      Upon receipt of this certificate, the Holder is bound by the Trust
Agreement and is entitled to the benefits thereunder.

      IN WITNESS WHEREOF, one of the Administrative Trustees of the Trust has
executed this certificate this day of

                                             METLIFE CAPITAL TRUST III

                                             By: ____________________________
                                                 Name:
                                                 Title: Administrative Trustee

                                      C-3

PROPERTY TRUSTEE'S CERTIFICATE OF AUTHENTICATION

            This is one of the Capital Securities referred to in the above
mentioned Trust Agreement.

Dated: _______________

                                             ________________________________
                                             As Property Trustee

                                             By: ____________________________
                                                 Name:
                                                 Title: Administrative Trustee

                                      C-4

ASSIGNMENT

      FOR VALUE RECEIVED, the undersigned assigns and transfers this Trust
Preferred Security to: ________________ (Insert assignee's social security or
tax identification number) (Insert address and zip code of assignee) and
irrevocably appoints ____________________ agent to transfer this Trust Preferred
Securities Certificate on the books of the Trust. The agent may substitute
another to act for him or her.

Date:                                        Signature:________________________

                                             (Sign exactly as your name appears
                                             on the other side of this Trust
                                             Preferred Securities Certificate)
                                             The signature(s) should be
                                             guaranteed by an eligible guarantor
                                             institution (banks, stockbrokers,
                                             savings and loan associations and
                                             credit unions with membership in an
                                             approved signature guarantee
                                             medallion program), pursuant to
                                             S.E.C. Rule 17Ad-15.

                                      C-5

</EX-4.61>

<EX-4.69>
 10
 y87657exv4w69.txt
 EX-4.69

EXHIBIT 4.69

================================================================================

                               GUARANTEE AGREEMENT

                                 by and between

                                 METLIFE, INC.,
                                  as Guarantor

                                       and

                J.P. MORGAN TRUST COMPANY, NATIONAL ASSOCIATION,
                              as Guarantee Trustee

                                   relating to

                            METLIFE CAPITAL TRUST III

                            Dated as of June 21, 2005

================================================================================

METLIFE, INC.
    Reconciliation and tie between Trust Indenture Act of 1939 and Guarantee
                      Agreement, dated as of June 21, 2005

Note: This reconciliation and tie shall not, for any purpose be deemed to be
part of the Guarantee Agreement.

                                       2

TABLE OF CONTENTS

PAGE
                                                                                          
                                           ARTICLE I
                                          DEFINITIONS

Section 1.1   Definitions.......................................................              1

                                          ARTICLE II
                                      TRUST INDENTURE ACT

Section 2.1   Trust Indenture Act; Application..................................              5

Section 2.2   List of Holders...................................................              5

Section 2.3   Reports by the Guarantee Trustee..................................              5

Section 2.4   Periodic Reports to the Guarantee Trustee.........................              5

Section 2.5   Evidence of Compliance with Conditions Precedent..................              6

Section 2.6   Events of Default; Waiver.........................................              6

Section 2.7   Event of Default; Notice..........................................              6

Section 2.8   Conflicting Interests.............................................              6

                                          ARTICLE III
                      POWERS, DUTIES AND RIGHTS OF THE GUARANTEE TRUSTEE

Section 3.1   Powers and Duties of the Guarantee Trustee........................              7

Section 3.2   Certain Rights of Guarantee Trustee...............................              8

Section 3.3   Compensation; Indemnity; Fees.....................................             10

                                          ARTICLE IV
                                       GUARANTEE TRUSTEE

Section 4.1   Guarantee Trustee; Eligibility....................................             10

Section 4.2   Appointment, Removal and Resignation of the Guarantee Trustee.....             11

                                           ARTICLE V
                                           GUARANTEE

Section 5.1   Guarantee.........................................................             12

Section 5.2   Waiver of Notice and Demand.......................................             12

Section 5.3   Obligations Not Affected..........................................             12

Section 5.4   Rights of Holders.................................................             13

Section 5.5   Guarantee of Payment..............................................             13

Section 5.6   Subrogation.......................................................             13

Section 5.7   Independent Obligations...........................................             14

i

TABLE OF CONTENTS
                                   (continued)

ii

GUARANTEE AGREEMENT, dated as of June 21, 2005 (the "Guarantee
Agreement"), between MetLife, Inc., a Delaware corporation (the "Guarantor"),
having its principal executive offices at 200 Park Avenue, New York, New York
10166, and J.P. Morgan Trust Company, National Association, a national banking
association, as trustee (the "Guarantee Trustee"), for the benefit of the
Holders from time to time of the Trust Preferred Securities of METLIFE CAPITAL
TRUST III, a Delaware statutory trust (the "Trust").

                                    RECITALS

      WHEREAS, pursuant to an Amended and Restated Declaration of Trust, of even
date herewith (the "Trust Agreement"), among MetLife, Inc., as Sponsor, the
Property Trustee, the Delaware Trustee, and the Administrative Trustees (each as
named therein) and the holders from time to time of undivided beneficial
ownership interests in the assets of the Trust, the Trust is issuing
$1,035,000,000 aggregate Initial Liquidation Amount (as defined in the Trust
Agreement) of its Trust Preferred Securities having the terms set forth in the
Trust Agreement; and

      WHEREAS, the Trust Preferred Securities will be issued by the Trust, and
the proceeds thereof, together with the proceeds from the issuance of the
Trust's Common Securities, will be used to purchase the Debentures, which
Debentures will be deposited with J.P. Morgan Trust Company, National
Association, as Property Trustee under the Trust Agreement, as trust assets; and

      WHEREAS, as an incentive for the Holders to purchase the Trust Preferred
Securities, the Guarantor desires irrevocably and unconditionally to agree, to
the extent set forth herein, to pay to the Holders of the Trust Preferred
Securities the Guarantee Payments and to make certain other payments on the
terms and conditions set forth herein.

      NOW, THEREFORE, in consideration of the purchase of Trust Preferred
Securities by each Holder, which purchase the Guarantor hereby acknowledges
shall benefit the Guarantor, the Guarantor executes and delivers this Guarantee
Agreement for the benefit of the Holders from time to time.

                                    ARTICLE I
                                   DEFINITIONS

      Section 1.1 Definitions.

      For all purposes of this Guarantee Agreement, except as otherwise
expressly provided or unless the context otherwise requires:

      (a)   The terms defined in this Article I have the meanings assigned to
them in this Article I, and include the plural as well as the singular;

      (b)   All other terms used herein that are defined in the Trust Indenture
Act, either directly or by reference therein, have the meanings assigned to them
therein;

(c)   The words "include," "includes" and "including" shall be deemed to
be followed by the phrase "without limitation;"

      (d)   All accounting terms used but not defined herein have the meanings
assigned to them in accordance with United States generally accepted accounting
principles;

      (e)   Unless the context otherwise requires, any reference to an "Article"
or a "Section" refers to an Article or a Section, as the case may be, of this
Guarantee Agreement; and

      (f)   The words "hereby," "herein," "hereof" and "hereunder" and other
words of similar import refer to this Guarantee Agreement as a whole and not to
any particular Article, Section or other subdivision.

      "Affiliate" of any specified Person means any other Person directly or
indirectly controlling or controlled by, or under direct or indirect common
control with, such specified Person. For the purposes of this definition,
"control," when used with respect to any specified Person, means the power to
direct the management and policies of such Person, directly or indirectly,
whether through the ownership of voting securities, by contract or otherwise;
and the terms "controlling" and "controlled" have meanings correlative to the
foregoing.

      "Authorized Officer" of any Person means any executive officer of such
Person or any person authorized by or pursuant to a resolution of the Board of
Directors (or equivalent body) of such Person.

      "Base Indenture" has the meaning specified in the Trust Agreement.

      "Board of Directors" means the board of directors of the Guarantor or any
committee of the board of directors of the Guarantor, comprised of one or more
members of the board of directors of the Guarantor or officers of the Guarantor,
or both.

      "Common Securities" has the meaning specified in the Trust Agreement.

      "Debentures" has the meaning specified in the Trust Agreement.

      "Distributions" has the meaning specified in the Trust Agreement.

      "Event of Default" means (i) a default by the Guarantor in any of its
payment obligations under this Guarantee Agreement; or (ii) a default by the
Guarantor in any other obligation hereunder that remains unremedied for 30 days.

      "Guarantee Agreement" means this Guarantee Agreement, as modified, amended
or supplemented from time to time.

      "Guarantee Payments" means the following payments or distributions,
without duplication, with respect to the Trust Preferred Securities, to the
extent not paid or made by or on behalf of the Trust: (i) any accumulated and
unpaid Distributions required to be paid on the Trust Preferred Securities, to
the extent the Trust shall have funds on hand available therefor at such time;
(ii) the Redemption Price with respect to any Trust Preferred Securities called
for

                                       2

redemption by the Trust, to the extent the Trust shall have funds on hand
available therefor at such time; and (iii) upon a voluntary or involuntary
dissolution, winding-up or liquidation of the Trust, other than in connection
with the distribution of Debentures to the Holders or the redemption of the
Trust Preferred Securities, the lesser of (a) the Liquidation Distribution with
respect to the Trust Preferred Securities, to the extent that the Trust shall
have funds on hand available therefor at such time, and (b) the amount of assets
of the Trust remaining available for distribution to Holders on liquidation of
the Trust.

      "Guarantee Trustee" means J.P. Morgan Trust Company, National Association,
solely in its capacity as Guarantee Trustee and not in its individual capacity,
until a Successor Guarantee Trustee has been appointed and has accepted such
appointment pursuant to the terms of this Guarantee Agreement, and thereafter
means each such Successor Guarantee Trustee.

      "Guarantor" has the meaning specified in the first paragraph of this
Guarantee Agreement.

      "Holder" means any Holder (as defined in the Trust Agreement) of any Trust
Preferred Securities; provided, however, that in determining whether the Holders
of the requisite percentage of Trust Preferred Securities have given any
request, notice, consent or waiver hereunder, "Holder" shall not include the
Guarantor, the Guarantee Trustee, or any Affiliate of the Guarantor or the
Guarantee Trustee.

      "Indenture" has the meaning specified in the Trust Agreement.

      "Indenture Supplement" has the meaning specified in the Trust Agreement.

      "Liquidation Distribution" has the meaning specified in the Trust
Agreement.

      "List of Holders" has the meaning specified in Section 2.2(a).

      "Majority in Accreted Liquidation Amount of the Trust Preferred
Securities" has the meaning specified in the Trust Agreement.

      "Officers' Certificate" means, with respect to any Person, a certificate
signed by any two Authorized Officers of such person. Any Officers' Certificate
delivered with respect to compliance with a condition or covenant provided for
in this Guarantee Agreement shall include:

      (a) a statement by each officer signing the Officers' Certificate that
such officer has read the covenant or condition and the definitions relating
thereto;

      (b) a brief statement of the nature and scope of the examination or
investigation undertaken by each officer in rendering the Officers' Certificate;

      (c) a statement that each officer has made such examination or
investigation as, in each such officer's opinion, is necessary to enable such
officer to express an informed opinion as to whether or not such covenant or
condition has been complied with; and

                                       3

(d) a statement as to whether, in the opinion of each officer, such
condition or covenant has been complied with.

      "Person" means a legal person, including any individual, corporation,
estate, partnership, joint venture, association, joint stock company, company,
limited liability company, trust, statutory or business trust, unincorporated
association, or government or any agency or political subdivision thereof, or
any other entity of whatever nature.

      "Redemption Price" has the meaning set forth in the Trust Agreement.

      "Responsible Officer" means, with respect to the Guarantee Trustee, any
Senior Vice President, any Vice President, any Assistant Vice President, the
Secretary, any Assistant Secretary, the Treasurer, any Assistant Treasurer, any
Trust Officer or Assistant Trust Officer or any other officer of the corporate
trust department of the Guarantee Trustee and also means, with respect to a
particular matter, any other officer to whom such matter is referred because of
that officer's knowledge of and familiarity with the particular subject.

      "Senior Debt" has the meaning set forth in Section 7.1 of the Indenture
Supplement.

      "Trust Preferred Securities" has the meaning specified in the Trust
Agreement.

      "Stock Purchase Date" has the meaning specified in the Stock Purchase
Contract Agreement, dated as of the date hereof, among the Guarantor and J.P.
Morgan Trust Company, National Association, as Stock Purchase Contract Agent.

      "Successor Guarantee Trustee" means a successor Guarantee Trustee
possessing the qualifications to act as Guarantee Trustee under Section 4.1.

      "Trust" has the meaning specified in the first paragraph of this Guarantee
Agreement.

      "Trust Agreement" means the Amended and Restated Declaration of Trust of
the Trust referred to in the recitals to this Guarantee Agreement, as modified,
amended or supplemented from time to time.

      "Trust Indenture Act" means the Trust Indenture Act of 1939, as amended as
in force at the date as of which this Guarantee Agreement was executed;
provided, however, that in the event the Trust Indenture Act of 1939 is amended
after such date, "Trust Indenture Act" means, to the extent required by any such
amendment, the Trust Indenture Act of 1939, as so amended.

      "Vice President," when used with respect to the Guarantor, means any duly
appointed vice president, whether or not designated by a number or a word or
words added before or after the title "vice president."

                                       4

ARTICLE II
                               TRUST INDENTURE ACT

      Section 2.1 Trust Indenture Act; Application.

      The Trust Indenture Act shall apply as a matter of contract to this
Guarantee Agreement for purposes of interpretation, construction and defining
the rights and obligations hereunder, and this Guarantee Agreement, the
Guarantor and the Guarantee Trustee shall be deemed for all purposes hereof to
be subject to and governed by the Trust Indenture Act to the same extent as
would be the case if this Guarantee Agreement were qualified under the Trust
Indenture Act on the date hereof. If and to the extent that any provision of
this Guarantee Agreement limits, qualifies or conflicts with the duties imposed
by Sections 310 to 317, inclusive, of the Trust Indenture Act, such imposed
duties shall control.

      Section 2.2 List of Holders.

      (a) The Guarantor shall furnish or cause to be furnished to the Guarantee
Trustee (a) semi-annually, on or before June 30 and December 31 of each year, a
list, in such form as the Guarantee Trustee may reasonably require, of the names
and addresses of the Holders (a "List of Holders") as of a date not more than 15
days prior to the delivery thereof, and (b) at such other times as the Guarantee
Trustee may request in writing, within 30 days after the receipt by the
Guarantor of any such request, a List of Holders as of a date not more than 15
days prior to the time such list is furnished, in each case to the extent such
information is in the possession or control of the Guarantor and has not
otherwise been received by the Guarantee Trustee in its capacity as such. The
Guarantee Trustee may destroy any List of Holders previously given to it on
receipt of a new List of Holders.

      (b) The Guarantee Trustee shall comply with the requirements of Section
311(a), Section 311(b) and Section 312(b) of the Trust Indenture Act.

      Section 2.3 Reports by the Guarantee Trustee.

      Within 60 days after May 15 each year, commencing May 15, 2006, the
Guarantee Trustee shall provide to the Holders such reports as are required by
Section 313 of the Trust Indenture Act, if any, in the form and in the manner
provided by Section 313 of the Trust Indenture Act. If this Guarantee Agreement
shall have been qualified under the Trust Indenture Act, the Guarantee Trustee
shall also comply with the requirements of Section 313(d) of the Trust Indenture
Act.

      Section 2.4 Periodic Reports to the Guarantee Trustee.

      The Guarantor shall provide to the Guarantee Trustee and the Holders such
documents, reports and information, if any, as required by Section 314 of the
Trust Indenture Act and the compliance certificate required by Section 314 of
the Trust Indenture Act, in the form, in the manner and at the times required by
Section 314 of the Trust Indenture Act, provided that such documents, reports
and information shall be required to be provided to the Securities and

                                       5

Exchange Commission only if this Guarantee Agreement shall have been qualified
under the Trust Indenture Act.

      Section 2.5 Evidence of Compliance with Conditions Precedent.

      The Guarantor shall provide to the Guarantee Trustee such evidence of
compliance with such conditions precedent, if any, provided for in this
Guarantee Agreement that relate to any of the matters set forth in Section
314(c) of the Trust Indenture Act. Any certificate or opinion required to be
given by an officer of the Guarantor pursuant to Section 314(c)(1) may be given
in the form of an Officers' Certificate.

      Section 2.6 Events of Default; Waiver.

      The Holders of at least a Majority in Accreted Liquidation Amount of the
Trust Preferred Securities may, on behalf of the Holders of all the Trust
Preferred Securities, waive any past default or Event of Default and its
consequences, other than an Event of Default arising from the nonpayment of
amounts that shall have become due by the terms of this Guarantee Agreement.
Upon such waiver, any such default or Event of Default shall cease to exist, and
any default or Event of Default arising therefrom shall be deemed to have been
cured, for every purpose of this Guarantee Agreement, but no such waiver shall
extend to any subsequent or other default or Event of Default or impair any
right consequent thereon.

      Section 2.7 Event of Default; Notice.

      (a) The Guarantee Trustee shall, within 30 days after the occurrence of an
Event of Default known to the Guarantee Trustee, transmit by mail, first class
postage prepaid, to the Holders, notice of any such Event of Default known to
the Guarantee Trustee, unless such Event of Default has been cured before the
giving of such notice, provided that, except in the case of a default in the
payment of a Guarantee Payment, the Guarantee Trustee shall be protected in
withholding such notice if and so long as the Board of Directors, the executive
committee or a trust committee of directors and/or Responsible Officers of the
Guarantee Trustee in good faith determines that the withholding of such notice
is in the interests of the Holders.

      (b) The Guarantee Trustee shall not be deemed to have knowledge of any
Event of Default unless the Guarantee Trustee shall have received written
notice, or a Responsible Officer charged with the administration of this
Guarantee Agreement shall have obtained written notice, of such Event of
Default.

      Section 2.8 Conflicting Interests.

      The Trust Agreement and the Indenture shall be deemed to be specifically
described in this Guarantee Agreement for the purposes of clause (i) of the
first proviso contained in Section 310(b) of the Trust Indenture Act.

                                       6

ARTICLE III
               POWERS, DUTIES AND RIGHTS OF THE GUARANTEE TRUSTEE

      Section 3.1 Powers and Duties of the Guarantee Trustee.

      (a) This Guarantee Agreement shall be held by the Guarantee Trustee for
the benefit of the Holders, and the Guarantee Trustee shall not transfer this
Guarantee Agreement to any Person except to a Successor Guarantee Trustee on
acceptance by such Successor Guarantee Trustee of its appointment to act as
Guarantee Trustee hereunder. The right, title and interest of the Guarantee
Trustee, as such, hereunder shall automatically vest in any Successor Guarantee
Trustee, upon acceptance by such Successor Guarantee Trustee of its appointment
hereunder, and such vesting and cessation of title shall be effective whether or
not conveyancing documents have been executed and delivered pursuant to the
appointment of such Successor Guarantee Trustee.

      (b) If an Event of Default has occurred and is continuing, the Guarantee
Trustee shall enforce this Guarantee Agreement for the benefit of the Holders.

      (c) The Guarantee Trustee, before the occurrence of any Event of Default
and after the curing of all Events of Default that may have occurred, shall
undertake to perform only such duties as are specifically set forth in this
Guarantee Agreement (including pursuant to Section 2.1), and no implied
covenants shall be read into this Guarantee Agreement against the Guarantee
Trustee. If an Event of Default has occurred (that has not been cured or waived
pursuant to Section 2.6), the Guarantee Trustee shall exercise such of the
rights and powers vested in it by this Guarantee Agreement, and use the same
degree of care and skill in its exercise thereof, as a prudent person would
exercise or use under the circumstances in the conduct of his or her own
affairs.

      (d) No provision of this Guarantee Agreement shall be construed to relieve
the Guarantee Trustee from liability for its own negligent action, its own
negligent failure to act or its own willful misconduct, except that:

            (i) prior to the occurrence of any Event of Default and after the
      curing or waiving of all such Events of Default that may have occurred:

                  (A) the duties and obligations of the Guarantee Trustee shall
            be determined solely by the express provisions of this Guarantee
            Agreement (including pursuant to Section 2.1), and the Guarantee
            Trustee shall not be liable except for the performance of such
            duties and obligations as are specifically set forth in this
            Guarantee Agreement (including pursuant to Section 2.1); and

                  (B) in the absence of bad faith on the part of the Guarantee
            Trustee, the Guarantee Trustee may conclusively rely, as to the
            truth of the statements and the correctness of the opinions
            expressed therein, upon any certificates or opinions furnished to
            the Guarantee Trustee and conforming to the requirements of this
            Guarantee Agreement (but in the case of any such certificates or
            opinions that by any provision hereof are specifically required to
            be furnished to the Guarantee

                                       7

Trustee, the Guarantee Trustee shall be under a duty to examine the
            same to determine whether or not they conform to the requirements of
            this Guarantee Agreement);

            (ii) the Guarantee Trustee shall not be liable for any error of
      judgment made in good faith by a Responsible Officer of the Guarantee
      Trustee, unless it shall be proved that the Guarantee Trustee was
      negligent in ascertaining the pertinent facts upon which such judgment was
      made;

            (iii) the Guarantee Trustee shall not be liable with respect to any
      action taken or omitted to be taken by it in good faith in accordance with
      the direction of the Holders of not less than a Majority in Accreted
      Liquidation Amount of the Trust Preferred Securities relating to the time,
      method and place of conducting any proceeding for any remedy available to
      the Guarantee Trustee, or exercising any trust or power conferred upon the
      Guarantee Trustee under this Guarantee Agreement; and

            (iv) no provision of this Guarantee Agreement shall require the
      Guarantee Trustee to expend or risk its own funds or otherwise incur
      personal financial liability in the performance of any of its duties or in
      the exercise of any of its rights or powers, if the Guarantee Trustee
      shall have reasonable grounds for believing that the repayment of such
      funds or liability is not reasonably assured to it under the terms of this
      Guarantee Agreement or adequate indemnity against such risk or liability
      is not reasonably assured to it.

      (e) Whether or not therein expressly so provided, every provision of this
Guarantee Agreement relating to the conduct or affecting the liability of or
affording protection to the Guarantee Trustee shall be subject to the provisions
of this Section.

      Section 3.2 Certain Rights of Guarantee Trustee.

      (a)   Subject to the provisions of Section 3.1:

            (i) The Guarantee Trustee may rely and shall be fully protected in
      acting or refraining from acting upon any resolution, certificate,
      statement, instrument, opinion, report, notice, request, direction,
      consent, order, bond, debenture, note, other evidence of indebtedness or
      other paper or document reasonably believed by it to be genuine and to
      have been signed, sent or presented by the proper party or parties.

            (ii) Any direction or act of the Guarantor contemplated by this
      Guarantee Agreement shall be sufficiently evidenced by an Officers'
      Certificate unless otherwise prescribed herein.

            (iii) Whenever, in the administration of this Guarantee Agreement,
      the Guarantee Trustee shall deem it desirable that a matter be proved or
      established before taking, suffering or omitting to take any action
      hereunder, the Guarantee Trustee (unless other evidence is herein
      specifically prescribed) may, in the absence of bad faith on its part,
      request and rely upon an Officers' Certificate which, upon receipt of such
      request from the Guarantee Trustee, shall be promptly delivered by the
      Guarantor.

                                       8

(iv) The Guarantee Trustee may consult with legal counsel, and the
      advice or opinion of such legal counsel with respect to legal matters
      shall be full and complete authorization and protection in respect of any
      action taken, suffered or omitted to be taken by it hereunder in good
      faith and in accordance with such advice or opinion. Such legal counsel
      may be legal counsel to the Guarantor or any of its Affiliates and may be
      one of its employees. The Guarantee Trustee shall have the right at any
      time to seek instructions concerning the administration of this Guarantee
      Agreement from any court of competent jurisdiction.

            (v) The Guarantee Trustee shall be under no obligation to exercise
      any of the rights or powers vested in it by this Guarantee Agreement at
      the request or direction of any Holder unless such Holder shall have
      provided to the Guarantee Trustee such adequate security and indemnity
      satisfactory to it against the costs, expenses (including attorneys' fees
      and expenses) and liabilities that might be incurred by it in complying
      with such request or direction, including such reasonable advances as may
      be requested by the Guarantee Trustee; nothing contained herein shall,
      however, relieve the Guarantee Trustee of the obligation, upon the
      occurrence of an Event of Default (that has not been cured or waived) to
      exercise such of the rights and powers vested in it by this Guarantee
      Agreement, and to use the same degree of care and skill in their exercise,
      as a prudent man would exercise or use under the circumstances in the
      conduct of his own affairs.

            (vi) The Guarantee Trustee shall not be bound to make any
      investigation into the facts or matters stated in any resolution,
      certificate, statement, instrument, opinion, report, notice, request,
      direction, consent, order, bond, debenture, note, other evidence of
      indebtedness or other paper or document, but the Guarantee Trustee, in its
      discretion, may make such further inquiry or investigation into such facts
      or matters as it may see fit at the expense of the Guarantor and shall
      incur no liability of any kind by reason of such inquiry or investigation.

            (vii) The Guarantee Trustee may execute any of the trusts or powers
      hereunder or perform any duties hereunder either directly or by or through
      its agents or attorneys, and the Guarantee Trustee shall not be
      responsible for any misconduct or negligence on the part of any such agent
      or attorney appointed by it with due care hereunder.

            (viii) Whenever in the administration of this Guarantee Agreement
      the Guarantee Trustee shall deem it desirable to receive instructions with
      respect to enforcing any remedy or right or taking any other action
      hereunder, the Guarantee Trustee (A) may request instructions from the
      Holders of a Majority in Accreted Liquidation Amount of the Trust
      Preferred Securities, (B) may refrain from enforcing such remedy or right
      or taking such other action until such instructions are received and shall
      not be liable to any Person for so refraining, and (C) shall be protected
      in acting in accordance with such instructions.

      (b) No provision of this Guarantee Agreement shall be deemed to impose any
duty or obligation on the Guarantee Trustee to perform any act or acts or
exercise any right, power, duty or obligation conferred or imposed on it in any
jurisdiction in which it shall be illegal, or in which the Guarantee Trustee
shall be unqualified or incompetent in accordance with applicable

                                       9

law, to perform any such act or acts or to exercise any such right, power, duty
or obligation. No permissive power or authority available to the Guarantee
Trustee shall be construed to be a duty to act in accordance with such power and
authority.

      (c) The recitals contained herein and in the Trust Preferred Securities
and the Trust Agreement shall be taken as the statements of the Guarantor and
the Trust, respectively, and the Guarantee Trustee assumes no responsibility for
this correctness. The Guarantee Trustee makes no representations as to the
validity or sufficiency of this Guarantee Agreement, the Guarantee or the Trust
Preferred Securities.

      Section 3.3 Compensation; Indemnity; Fees.

      The Guarantor agrees:

      (a) to pay to the Guarantee Trustee from time to time such reasonable
compensation for all services rendered by it hereunder as may be agreed by the
Guarantor and the Guarantee Trustee from time to time (which compensation shall
not be limited by any provision of law in regard to the compensation of a
trustee of an express trust);

      (b) except as otherwise expressly provided herein, to reimburse the
Guarantee Trustee upon request for all reasonable expenses, disbursements and
advances incurred or made by the Guarantee Trustee in accordance with any
provision of this Guarantee Agreement (including the reasonable compensation and
the expenses and disbursements of its agents and counsel), except any such
expense, disbursement or advance as shall be determined to have been caused by
its own negligence or bad faith; and

      (c) to indemnify the Guarantee Trustee, any Affiliate of the Guarantee
Trustee and any officer, director, shareholder, employee, representative or
agent of the Guarantee Trustee (each, an "Indemnified Person") for, and to hold
each Indemnified Person harmless against, any loss, liability, claim, damage or
expense incurred without negligence, willful misconduct or bad faith on the part
of the Indemnified Person, arising out of or in connection with the acceptance
or administration of this Guarantee Agreement, including the costs and expenses
of defending itself against any claim or liability in connection with the
exercise or performance of any of its powers or duties hereunder.

      The Guarantee Trustee will not claim or exact any lien or charge on any
Guarantee Payments as a result of any amount due to it under this Guarantee
Agreement.

      The provisions of this Section 3.3 shall survive the termination of this
Guarantee Agreement or the resignation or removal of the Guarantee Trustee.

                                       10

ARTICLE IV

                                GUARANTEE TRUSTEE

      Section 4.1 Guarantee Trustee; Eligibility.

      (a)   There shall at all times be a Guarantee Trustee which shall:

            (i) not be an Affiliate of the Guarantor; and

            (ii) be a Person that is eligible pursuant to the Trust Indenture
      Act to act as such and has a combined capital and surplus of at least
      $50,000,000, and shall be a Person meeting the requirements of Section
      310(a) of the Trust Indenture Act. If such Person publishes reports of
      condition at least annually, pursuant to law or to the requirements of its
      supervising or examining authority, then, for the purposes of this Section
      4.1 and to the extent permitted by the Trust Indenture Act, the combined
      capital and surplus of such Person shall be deemed to be its combined
      capital and surplus as set forth in its most recent report of condition so
      published.

      (b) If at any time the Guarantee Trustee shall cease to be eligible to so
act under Section 4.1(a), the Guarantee Trustee shall immediately resign in the
manner and with the effect set out in Section 4.2.

      (c) If the Guarantee Trustee has or shall acquire any "conflicting
interest" within the meaning of Section 310(b) of the Trust Indenture Act, the
Guarantee Trustee and Guarantor shall in all respects comply with the provisions
of Section 310(b) of the Trust Indenture Act.

      Section 4.2 Appointment, Removal and Resignation of the Guarantee Trustee.

      (a) Subject to Section 4.2(c), the Guarantee Trustee may be appointed or
removed at any time by the action of the Holders of a Majority in Accreted
Liquidation Amount of the Trust Preferred Securities delivered to the Guarantee
Trustee and the Guarantor (i) for cause or (ii) if a Debenture Event of Default
(as defined in the Trust Agreement) shall have occurred and be continuing at any
time.

      (b) Subject to Section 4.2(c), the Guarantee Trustee may resign from
office (without need for prior or subsequent accounting) by giving written
notice thereof to the Holders and the Guarantor and by appointing a successor
Guarantee Trustee, which successor shall be acceptable to the Guarantor. The
Guarantee Trustee shall appoint a successor by requesting from at least three
Persons meeting the requirements of Section 4.1(a) their expenses and charges to
serve as the Guarantee Trustee, and selecting the Person who agrees to the
lowest expenses and charges.

      (c) The Guarantee Trustee appointed hereunder shall hold office until a
Successor Guarantee Trustee shall have been appointed and shall have accepted
such appointment. No removal or resignation of a Guarantee Trustee shall be
effective until a Successor Guarantee Trustee has been appointed and has
accepted such appointment by written instrument executed by such Successor
Guarantee Trustee and delivered to the Guarantor and, in the case of any
resignation, the resigning Guarantee Trustee.

                                       11

(d) If no Successor Guarantee Trustee shall have been appointed and
accepted appointment as provided in this Section 4.2 within 60 days after
delivery to the Holders and the Guarantor of a notice of resignation, the
resigning Guarantee Trustee may petition, at the expense of the Guarantor, any
court of competent jurisdiction for appointment of a Successor Guarantee
Trustee. Such court may thereupon, after prescribing such notice, if any, as it
may deem proper, appoint a Successor Guarantee Trustee.

      (e) If a resigning Guarantee Trustee shall fail to appoint a successor, or
if a Guarantee Trustee shall be removed or become incapable of acting as
Guarantee Trustee and a replacement shall not be appointed prior to such
resignation or removal, or if a vacancy shall occur in the office of Guarantee
Trustee for any cause, the Holders of the Trust Preferred Securities, by the
action of the Holders of record of not less than 25% in aggregate Accreted
Liquidation Amount (as defined in the Trust Agreement) of the Trust Preferred
Securities then Outstanding (as defined in the Trust Agreement) delivered to
such Guarantee Trustee, may appoint a Successor Guarantee Trustee or Trustees.
If no successor Guarantee Trustee shall have been so appointed by the Holders of
the Trust Preferred Securities and accepted appointment, any Holder, on behalf
of such Holder and all others similarly situated, or any other Guarantee
Trustee, may petition any court of competent jurisdiction for the appointment of
a successor Guarantee Trustee.

                                   ARTICLE V

                                   GUARANTEE

      Section 5.1 Guarantee.

      The Guarantor irrevocably and unconditionally agrees to pay in full to the
Holders the Guarantee Payments (without duplication of amounts theretofore paid
by or on behalf of the Trust), as and when due, regardless of any defense, right
of set-off or counterclaim that the Trust may have or assert, except the defense
of payment. The Guarantor's obligation to make a Guarantee Payment may be
satisfied by direct payment of the required amounts by the Guarantor to the
Holders or by causing the Trust to pay such amounts to the Holders.

      Section 5.2 Waiver of Notice and Demand.

      The Guarantor hereby waives notice of acceptance of this Guarantee
Agreement and of any liability to which it applies or may apply, presentment,
demand for payment, any right to require a proceeding first against the
Guarantee Trustee, the Trust or any other Person before proceeding against the
Guarantor, protest, notice of nonpayment, notice of dishonor, notice of
redemption and all other notices and demands.

      Section 5.3 Obligations Not Affected.

      The obligations, covenants, agreements and duties of the Guarantor under
this Guarantee Agreement shall in no way be affected or impaired by reason of
the happening from time to time of any of the following:

                                       12

(a) the release or waiver, by operation of law or otherwise, of the
performance or observance by the Trust of any express or implied agreement,
covenant, term or condition relating to the Trust Preferred Securities to be
performed or observed by the Trust;

      (b) the extension of time for the payment by the Trust of any portion of
the Distributions (other than an extension of time for payment of Distributions
that results from the extension of any interest payment period on the Debentures
as provided in the Indenture), Redemption Price, Liquidation Distribution or any
other sums payable under the terms of the Trust Preferred Securities or the
extension of time for the performance of any other obligation under, arising out
of, or in connection with, the Trust Preferred Securities;

      (c) any failure, omission, delay or lack of diligence on the part of the
Holders to enforce, assert or exercise any right, privilege, power or remedy
conferred on the Holders pursuant to the terms of the Trust Preferred
Securities, or any action on the part of the Trust granting indulgence or
extension of any kind;

      (d) the voluntary or involuntary liquidation, dissolution, receivership,
insolvency, bankruptcy, assignment for the benefit of creditors, reorganization,
arrangement, composition or readjustment of debt of, or other similar
proceedings affecting, the Trust or any of the assets of the Trust;

      (e) any invalidity of, or defect or deficiency in, the Trust Preferred
Securities;

      (f) the settlement or compromise of any obligation guaranteed hereby or
hereby incurred; or

      (g) any other circumstance whatsoever that might otherwise constitute a
legal or equitable discharge or defense of a guarantor (other than payment of
the underlying obligation), it being the intent of this Section 5.3 that the
obligations of the Guarantor hereunder shall be absolute and unconditional under
any and all circumstances.

      There shall be no obligation of the Holders to give notice to, or obtain
the consent of, the Guarantor with respect to the happening of any of the
foregoing.

      Section 5.4 Rights of Holders.

      The Guarantor expressly acknowledges that: (i) this Guarantee Agreement
will be deposited with the Guarantee Trustee to be held for the benefit of the
Holders; (ii) the Guarantee Trustee has the right to enforce this Guarantee
Agreement on behalf of the Holders; (iii) the Holders of a Majority in Accreted
Liquidation Amount of the Trust Preferred Securities have the right to direct
the time, method and place of conducting any proceeding for any remedy available
to the Guarantee Trustee in respect of this Guarantee Agreement or exercising
any trust or power conferred upon the Guarantee Trustee under this Guarantee
Agreement; and (iv) any Holder may institute a legal proceeding directly against
the Guarantor to enforce its rights under this Guarantee Agreement without first
instituting a legal proceeding against the Guarantee Trustee, the Trust or any
other Person.

                                       13

Section 5.5 Guarantee of Payment.

      This Guarantee Agreement creates a guarantee of payment and not of
collection. This Guarantee Agreement will not be discharged except by payment of
the Guarantee Payments in full (without duplication of amounts theretofore paid
by the Trust) or upon the distribution of Debentures to Holders as provided in
the Trust Agreement.

      Section 5.6 Subrogation.

      The Guarantor shall be subrogated to all rights (if any) of the Holders
against the Trust in respect of any amounts paid to the Holders by the Guarantor
under this Guarantee Agreement; provided, however, that the Guarantor shall not
(except to the extent required by mandatory provisions of law) be entitled to
enforce or exercise any rights which it may acquire by way of subrogation or any
indemnity, reimbursement or other agreement, in all cases as a result of payment
under this Guarantee Agreement, if, at the time of any such payment, any amounts
are due and unpaid under this Guarantee Agreement. If any amount shall be paid
to the Guarantor in violation of the preceding sentence, the Guarantor agrees to
hold such amount in trust for the Holders and to pay over such amount to the
Holders.

      Section 5.7 Independent Obligations.

      The Guarantor acknowledges that its obligations hereunder are independent
of the obligations of the Trust with respect to the Trust Preferred Securities
and that the Guarantor shall be liable as principal and as debtor hereunder to
make Guarantee Payments pursuant to the terms of this Guarantee Agreement
notwithstanding the occurrence of any event referred to in subsections (a)
through (g), inclusive, of Section 5.3 hereof.

                                   ARTICLE VI

                           COVENANTS AND SUBORDINATION

      Section 6.1 Subordination.

      The obligations of the Guarantor under this Guarantee Agreement will
constitute unsecured obligations of the Guarantor and will rank subordinate and
junior in right of payment to all Senior Debt of the Guarantor to the extent and
in the manner set forth in the Indenture with respect to the Debt Securities (as
defined therein), and the provisions of Article XV of the Base Indenture as
modified by Section 6.1 of the Indenture Supplement will apply, mutatis
mutandis, to the obligations of the Guarantor hereunder. The obligations of the
Guarantor hereunder do not constitute Senior Debt of the Guarantor.

      Section 6.2 Pari Passu Guarantees.

      The obligations of the Guarantor under this Guarantee Agreement shall rank
pari passu with the obligations of the Guarantor under (i) any similar guarantee
agreements issued by the Guarantor on behalf of the holders of preferred or
capital securities issued by any statutory trust, (ii) the Indenture and the
Debt Securities (as defined therein) issued thereunder, (iii) any expense
agreements entered into by the Guarantor in connection with the offering of
preferred or capital

                                       14

securities by any statutory trust, and (iv) any other security, guarantee or
other agreement or obligation that is expressly stated to rank pari passu with
the obligations of the Guarantor under this Guarantee Agreement or with any
obligation that ranks pari passu with the obligations of the Guarantor under
this Guarantee Agreement.

      Section 6.3 Guarantor Election to End Subordination.

      The Guarantor may elect, at any time effective on or after the Stock
Purchase Date, including in connection with a remarketing of the Trust Preferred
Securities that its obligations hereunder shall be senior obligations instead of
subordinated obligations, in which case the provisions of Section 6.1 hereof
shall thereafter no longer apply to the obligations of Guarantor under this
Guarantee Agreement. The Guarantor shall give the Guarantee Trustee notice of
any such election not later than the effective time, and shall promptly issue a
press release through Bloomberg Business News or other reasonable means of
distribution.

                                  ARTICLE VII

                                  TERMINATION

      Section 7.1 Termination.

      This Guarantee Agreement shall terminate and be of no further force and
effect upon (i) full payment of the Redemption Price of all Trust Preferred
Securities, (ii) the distribution of Debentures to the Holders in exchange for
all of the Trust Preferred Securities or (iii) full payment of the amounts
payable in accordance with Article IX of the Trust Agreement upon liquidation of
the Trust. Notwithstanding the foregoing, this Guarantee Agreement will continue
to be effective or will be reinstated, as the case may be, if at any time any
Holder is required to repay any sums paid with respect to Trust Preferred
Securities or this Guarantee Agreement.

                                  ARTICLE VIII

                                  MISCELLANEOUS

      Section 8.1 Successors and Assigns.

      All guarantees and agreements contained in this Guarantee Agreement shall
bind the successors, assigns, receivers, trustees and representatives of the
Guarantor and shall inure to the benefit of the Holders of the Trust Preferred
Securities then outstanding. Except in connection with a consolidation, merger
or sale involving the Guarantor that is permitted under Article X of the Base
Indenture and pursuant to which the successor or assignee agrees in writing to
perform the Guarantor's obligations hereunder, the Guarantor shall not assign
its obligations hereunder, and any purported assignment other than in accordance
with this provision shall be void.

      Section 8.2 Amendments.

      Except with respect to any changes that do not adversely affect the rights
of the Holders in any material respect (in which case no consent of the Holders
will be required), this Guarantee Agreement may only be amended with the prior
approval of the Holders of not less than a

                                       15

Majority in Accreted Liquidation Amount of the Trust Preferred Securities. The
provisions of Article VI of the Trust Agreement concerning meetings of the
Holders shall apply to the giving of such approval.

      Section 8.3 Notices.

      Any notice, request or other communication required or permitted to be
given hereunder shall be in writing, duly signed by the party giving such
notice, and delivered, telecopied or mailed by first class mail as follows:

      (a) if given to the Guarantor, to the address or telecopy number set forth
below or such other address or facsimile number as the Guarantor may give notice
to the Guarantee Trustee and the Holders:

                         MetLife, Inc.
                         27-01 Queens Plaza North
                         Long Island City, New York 11101
                         Attention:  Treasurer
                         Facsimile:  (212) 578-0266

      (b) if given to the Guarantee Trustee, to the address or telecopy number
set forth below or such other address or facsimile number as the Guarantee
Trustee may give notice to the Guarantor and Holders:

                         J.P. Morgan Trust Company, National Association
                         Worldwide Securities Services
                         4 New York Plaza, 15th Floor
                         New York, NY  10004
                         Attention: Worldwide Securities Services
                         Telephone: (212) 623-5233
                         Facsimile: (212) 623-6215

                         with a copy to:

                         MetLife Capital Trust III
                         c/o Chase Bank USA, National Association
                         500 Stanton Christiana Road
                         3rd Floor/OPS4
                         Newark, Delaware 19713
                         Attention: Institutional Trust Services
                         Facsimile:  (302) 552-6280

      (c) if given to any Holder, at the address set forth on the books and
records of the Trust.

      All notices hereunder shall be deemed to have been given when received in
person, telecopied with receipt confirmed, or mailed by first class mail,
postage prepaid, except that if a notice or other document is refused delivery
or cannot be delivered because of a changed address

                                       16

of which no notice was given, such notice or other document shall be deemed to
have been delivered on the date of such refusal or inability to deliver.

      Section 8.4 Benefit.

      This Guarantee Agreement is solely for the benefit of the Holders and is
not separately transferable from the Trust Preferred Securities.

      Section 8.5 Governing Law.

      THIS GUARANTEE AGREEMENT SHALL BE GOVERNED BY AND CONSTRUED IN ACCORDANCE
WITH THE LAWS OF THE STATE OF NEW YORK.

      Section 8.6 Counterparts.

      This instrument may be executed in any number of counterparts, each of
which so executed shall be deemed to be an original, but all such counterparts
shall together constitute but one and the same instrument.

                                       17

IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto have executed this Guarantee
Agreement as of the day and year first above written.

                                  METLIFE, INC.,
                                  as Guarantor

                                  By: /s/ Joseph Prochaska, Jr.
                                      -------------------------------
                                  Name:
                                  Title:

                                  J.P. MORGAN TRUST COMPANY, NATIONAL
                                  ASSOCIATION, as Guarantee Trustee

                                  By: /s/ Paul Schmalzel
                                      -------------------------------
                                  Name:  Paul Schmalzel
                                  Title: Authorized Signer

</EX-4.69>

<EX-4.83>
 11
 y87657exv4w83.txt
 EX-4.83

EXHIBIT 4.83

================================================================================

                        STOCK PURCHASE CONTRACT AGREEMENT

                                     between

                                  METLIFE, INC.

                                       and

                J.P. MORGAN TRUST COMPANY, NATIONAL ASSOCIATION,
                        as Stock Purchase Contract Agent

                            Dated as of June 21, 2005

================================================================================

TABLE OF CONTENTS

i

TABLE OF CONTENTS
                             (CONTINUED)

ii

TABLE OF CONTENTS
                             (CONTINUED)

PAGE
                                                                                                         
Section 6.01    Unconditional Right of Holders to Receive Contract Payments and to Purchase
                Shares of Common Stock...........................................................          60

Section 6.02    Restoration of Rights and Remedies...............................................          60

Section 6.03    Rights and Remedies Cumulative...................................................          60

Section 6.04    Delay or Omission Not Waiver.....................................................          60

Section 6.05    Undertaking for Costs............................................................          60

Section 6.06    Waiver of Stay or Extension Laws.................................................          61

                                                 ARTICLE VII
                                      THE STOCK PURCHASE CONTRACT AGENT

Section 7.01    Certain Duties and Responsibilities..............................................          61

Section 7.02    Notice of Default................................................................          62

Section 7.03    Certain Rights of Stock Purchase Contract Agent..................................          62

Section 7.04    Not Responsible for Recitals or Issuance of Common Equity Units..................          64

Section 7.05    May Hold Common Equity Units.....................................................          65

Section 7.06    Money Held in Custody............................................................          65

Section 7.07    Compensation and Reimbursement...................................................          65

Section 7.08    Corporate Stock Purchase Contract Agent Required, Eligibility....................          66

Section 7.09    Resignation and Removal; Appointment of Successor................................          66

Section 7.10    Acceptance of Appointment by Successor...........................................          67

Section 7.11    Merger, Conversion, Consolidation or Succession to Business......................          68

Section 7.12    Preservation of Information; Communications to Holders...........................          68

Section 7.13    No Obligations of Stock Purchase Contract Agent..................................          69

Section 7.14    Tax Compliance...................................................................          69

                                                ARTICLE VIII
                                           SUPPLEMENTAL AGREEMENTS

Section 8.01    Supplemental Agreements Without Consent of Holders...............................          70

Section 8.02    Supplemental Agreements with Consent of Holders..................................          70

Section 8.03    Execution of Supplemental Agreements.............................................          71

Section 8.04    Effect of Supplemental Agreements................................................          72

Section 8.05    Reference to Supplemental Agreements.............................................          72

iii

TABLE OF CONTENTS
                             (CONTINUED)

PAGE
                                                                                                         
                                                 ARTICLE IX
                            CONSOLIDATION, MERGER, CONVEYANCE, TRANSFER OR LEASE

Section 9.01    Covenant Not to Consolidate, Merge, Convey, Transfer or Lease Property
                Except under Certain Conditions..................................................          72

Section 9.02    Rights and Duties of Successor Corporation.......................................          73

Section 9.03    Officers' Certificate and Opinion of Counsel Given to Stock Purchase
                Contract Agent...................................................................          73

                                                  ARTICLE X
                                                  COVENANTS

Section 10.01   Performance Under Stock Purchase Contracts.......................................          73

Section 10.02   Maintenance of Office or Agency..................................................          74

Section 10.03   Company to Reserve Common Stock..................................................          74

Section 10.04   Covenants as to Common Stock.....................................................          74

Section 10.05   Statements of Officers of the Company as to Default..............................          74

Section 10.06   ERISA............................................................................          75

Section 10.07   Tax Treatment....................................................................          75

EXHIBITS:

Exhibit A  -   Form of Normal Common Equity Unit Certificate
Exhibit B  -   Form of Stripped Common Equity Unit Certificate
Exhibit C  -   Instruction to Stock Purchase Contract Agent
Exhibit D  -   Notice from Stock Purchase Contract Agent to Holders
Exhibit E  -   Notice to Settle by Cash
Exhibit F  -   Notice From Stock Purchase Contract Agent To Collateral Agent
               (Settlement of Purchase Contract through Remarketing)

                                       iv

STOCK PURCHASE CONTRACT AGREEMENT, dated as of June 21, 2005, between
MetLife, Inc., a Delaware corporation (the "Company"), and J.P. Morgan Trust
Company, National Association, acting as stock purchase contract agent for the
Holders of Common Equity Units (as defined herein) from time to time (the "Stock
Purchase Contract Agent").

                                    RECITALS

      The Company has duly authorized the execution and delivery of this
Agreement and the Certificates (as defined herein) evidencing the Common Equity
Units.

      All things necessary to make the Stock Purchase Contracts (as defined
herein), when the Certificates are executed by the Company and authenticated,
executed on behalf of the Holders and delivered by the Stock Purchase Contract
Agent, as provided in this Agreement, the valid obligations of the Company, and
to constitute these presents a valid agreement of the Company, in accordance
with its terms, have been done. For and in consideration of the premises and the
purchase of the Common Equity Units by the Holders thereof, it is mutually
agreed as follows:

                                   ARTICLE I

                        DEFINITIONS AND OTHER PROVISIONS
                             OF GENERAL APPLICATION

      Section 1.01 Definitions.

      For all purposes of this Agreement, except as otherwise expressly provided
or unless the context otherwise requires:

      (a) the terms defined in this Article I have the meanings assigned to them
in this Article I and include the plural as well as the singular, and nouns and
pronouns of the masculine gender include the feminine and neuter genders;

      (b) all accounting terms not otherwise defined herein have the meanings
assigned to them in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles in
the United States;

      (c) the words "herein," "hereof" and "hereunder" and other words of
similar import refer to this Agreement as a whole and not to any particular
Article, Section, Exhibit or other subdivision; and the following terms have the
meanings given to them in this Section 1.01(c):

            "Act" has the meaning, with respect to any Holder, set forth in
      Section 1.04(a).

            "Adjustment Factor" has the meaning set forth in Section 5.01(a).

            "Affiliate" of any specified Person means any other Person directly
      or indirectly controlling or controlled by or under direct or indirect
      common control with such specified Person. For the purposes of this
      definition, "control" when used with respect to any specified Person means
      the power to direct the management and policies of such Person, directly
      or indirectly, whether through the ownership of voting securities, by

contract or otherwise; and the terms "controlling" and "controlled" have
      meanings correlative to the foregoing.

            "Agreement" means this instrument as originally executed or as it
      may from time to time be supplemented or amended by one or more agreements
      supplemental hereto entered into pursuant to the applicable provisions
      hereof.

            "Applicable Remarketing Settlement Date" means with respect to each
      series of Trust Preferred Securities, as of any Determination Date, the
      next potential Remarketing Settlement Date following such Determination
      Date for such series, unless there has previously been a Successful
      Remarketing of such series, in which case the term means, with respect to
      such series, the Remarketing Date.

            "Applicants" has the meaning set forth in Section 7.12(b).

            "Bankruptcy Code" means Title 11 of the United States Code, or any
      other law of the United States that from time to time provides a uniform
      system of bankruptcy laws.

            "Base Indenture" means the Indenture, dated as of June 21, 2005
      between the Company and the Debenture Trustee, as amended or supplemented
      from time to time.

            "Beneficial Owner" means, with respect to a Book-Entry Interest, a
      Person who is the beneficial owner of such Book-Entry Interest as
      reflected on the books of the Depositary or on the books of a Person
      maintaining an account with such Depositary (directly as a Depositary
      Participant or as an indirect participant, in each case in accordance with
      the rules of such Depositary).

            "Board Of Directors" means the board of directors of the Company or
      a duly authorized committee of that board.

            "Board Resolution" means one or more resolutions of the Board of
      Directors, a copy of which has been certified by the Secretary or an
      Assistant Secretary of the Company, to have been duly adopted by the Board
      of Directors and to be in full force and effect on the date of such
      certification and delivered to the Stock Purchase Contract Agent.

            "Book-Entry Interest" means a beneficial interest in a Global
      Certificate, registered in the name of a Depositary or a nominee thereof,
      ownership and transfers of which shall be maintained and made through book
      entries by such Depositary as described in Section 3.06.

            "Business Day" means a day other than a Saturday, Sunday or any
      other day on which banking institutions and trust companies in New York
      City are permitted or required by any applicable law to close.

            "Capital Stock" means any and all shares, interests, rights to
      purchase, warrants, options, participation or other equivalents of or
      interests in (however designated, whether

                                       2

voting or non-voting) corporate stock or similar equity or membership
      interests in other types of entities.

            "Cash Merger" has the meaning set forth in Section 5.04(b)(ii).

            "Cash Merger Early Settlement" has the meaning set forth in Section
      5.04(b)(ii).

            "Cash Merger Early Settlement Date" has the meaning set forth in
      Section 5.04(b)(ii).

            "Cash Settlement" has the meaning set forth in Section 5.02(b)(i).

            "Certificate" means a Normal Common Equity Unit Certificate or a
      Stripped Common Equity Unit Certificate.

            "Closing Price" has the meaning set forth in Section 5.01(a).

            "Code" means the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended.

            "Collateral" has the meaning set forth in Section 1.01(e) of the
      Pledge Agreement.

            "Collateral Account" has the meaning set forth in Section 1.01(e) of
      the Pledge Agreement.

            "Collateral Agent" means JPMorgan Chase Bank, National Association,
      as Collateral Agent under the Pledge Agreement until a successor
      Collateral Agent shall have become appointed as such pursuant to the
      applicable provisions of the Pledge Agreement, and thereafter "Collateral
      Agent" shall mean the Person who is then the Collateral Agent thereunder.

            "Collateral Substitution" means (i) with respect to a Normal Common
      Equity Unit, the substitution for the Pledged Trust Preferred Securities
      included in such Normal Common Equity Unit by Treasury Securities or
      portions thereof in an aggregate principal amount at maturity equal to the
      aggregate liquidation amount of such Pledged Trust Preferred Securities,
      or (ii) with respect to a Stripped Common Equity Unit, the substitution
      for the Pledged Treasury Securities included in such Stripped Common
      Equity Unit by Trust Preferred Securities in an aggregate liquidation
      amount equal to the aggregate principal amount at stated maturity of the
      Pledged Treasury Securities.

            "Common Equity Unit" means a Normal Common Equity Unit or a Stripped
      Common Equity Unit, as the case may be.

            "Common Stock" means the common stock, par value $0.01 per share, of
      the Company.

                                       3

"Company" means the Person named as the "Company" in the first
      paragraph of this Agreement until a successor shall have become such
      pursuant to the applicable provision of this Agreement, and thereafter
      "Company" shall mean such successor.

            "Constituent Person" has the meaning set forth in Section
      5.04(b)(i).

            "Contract Payments" means the payments payable by the Company on the
      Payment Dates in respect of each Stock Purchase Contract, at a rate per
      year of 1.510% on the Stated Amount of $25.00 per Stock Purchase Contract
      from and including the issue date of Common Equity Units to but excluding
      the Initial Stock Purchase Date, and at a rate per year of 1.465% on the
      remaining Stated Amount of $12.50 per Stock Purchase Contract from and
      including the Initial Stock Purchase Date to but excluding the Subsequent
      Stock Purchase Date.

            "Corporate Trust Office" means the office of the Stock Purchase
      Contract Agent at which, at any particular time, its corporate trust
      business shall be principally administered, which office at the date
      hereof is located at Worldwide Securities Services, 4 New York Plaza, 15th
      Floor, New York, NY 10004.

            "Current Market Price" has the meaning set forth in Section
      5.04(a)(viii).

            "Custodial Agent" means JPMorgan Chase Bank, National Association,
      as Custodial Agent under the Pledge Agreement until a successor Custodial
      Agent shall have become such pursuant to the applicable provisions of the
      Pledge Agreement, and thereafter "Custodial Agent" shall mean the Person
      who is then the Custodial Agent thereunder.

            "Daily Amount" has the meaning set forth in Section 5.01(a).

            "Debentures", in respect of a series of Trust Preferred Securities,
      has the meaning set forth in the applicable Trust Agreements.

            "Debenture Trustee" means J.P. Morgan Trust Company, National
      Association, as trustee pursuant to the Indenture, or its successor in
      interest in such capacity, or any successor trustee appointed as provided
      in the Indenture.

            "Deferred Contract Payments" has the meaning set forth in Section
      5.12(a).

            "Depositary" means a clearing agency registered under Section 17A of
      the Exchange Act that is designated to act as Depositary for the Common
      Equity Units as contemplated by Sections 3.06 and 3.08.

            "Depositary Participant" means a broker, dealer, bank, other
      financial institution or other Person for whom from time to time the
      Depositary effects book-entry transfers and pledges of securities
      deposited with the Depositary.

            "Determination Date" has the meaning set forth in Section 5.01(a).

                                       4

"Distribution Rate, in respect of a series of Trust Preferred
      Securities," has the meaning set forth in the applicable Trust Agreement.

            "Dividend Threshold Amount" has the meaning set forth in Section
      5.04(a)(iv).

            "DTC" means The Depository Trust Company.

            "Early Settlement" has the meaning set forth in Section 5.07(a).

            "Early Settlement Amount" has the meaning set forth in Section
      5.07(b).

            "Early Settlement Date" has the meaning set forth in Section
      5.07(b).

            "Early Settlement Rate" has the meaning set forth in Section
      5.07(c).

            "ERISA" means the Employee Retirement Income Security Act of 1974,
      as amended.

            "Exchange Act" means the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 and any
      statute successor thereto, in each case as amended from time to time, and
      the rules and regulations promulgated thereunder.

            "Expiration Date" has the meaning set forth in Section 1.04(e).

            "Expiration Time" has the meaning set forth in Section 5.04(a)(v).

            "Failed Remarketing", in respect of a series of Trust Preferred
      Securities, has the meaning set forth in the applicable Trust Agreements.

            "First Supplemental Indenture" means the First Supplemental
      Indenture to the Base Indenture, dated as of the date hereof, between the
      Company and the Debenture Trustee, as amended or supplemented from time to
      time.

            "First Applicable Remarketing Settlement Date" means, with respect
      to the Series A Trust Preferred Securities, August 15, 2008; with respect
      to the Series B Trust Preferred Securities, six months after the earlier
      of (i) the Remarketing Settlement Date of a Successful Remarketing of the
      Series A Trust Preferred Securities or (ii) February 15, 2009.

            "Fixed Daily Settlement Rates" has the meaning set forth in Section
      5.01(a).

            "Global Certificate" means a Certificate that evidences all or part
      of the Common Equity Units and is registered in the name of the Depositary
      or a nominee thereof.

            "Holder" means, with respect to a Common Equity Unit, the Person in
      whose name the Common Equity Units evidenced by a Certificate is
      registered in the Security Register; provided, however, that solely for
      the purpose of determining whether the Holders of the requisite number of
      Common Equity Units have voted on any matter (and not for any other
      purpose hereunder), if the Common Equity Units remain in the form of

                                       5

one or more Global Certificates and if the Depositary that is, or the
      nominee of whom is the registered holder of such Global Certificate has
      sent an omnibus proxy assigning voting rights to the Depositary
      Participants to whose accounts the Common Equity Units are credited on the
      record date, the term "Holder" shall mean such Depositary Participant
      acting at the direction of the Beneficial Owners.

            "Indemnitees" has the meaning set forth in Section 7.07(c).

            "Indenture" means the Base Indenture and the First Supplemental
      Indenture, taken together.

            "Initial Liquidation Amount", in respect of a series of Trust
      Preferred Securities, has the meaning set forth in the applicable Trust
      Agreement.

            "Initial Stock Purchase Date" means August 15, 2008 provided that
      the Initial Stock Purchase Date may be deferred for quarterly periods
      until February 15, 2009 in accordance with Section 5.02(b)(v).

            "Issuer Order" or "Issuer Request" means a written order or request
      signed in the name of the Company by (i) either its Chief Executive
      Officer, its President or one of its Vice Presidents, and (ii) either its
      Corporate Secretary or one of its Assistant Corporate Secretaries or its
      Treasurer or one of its Assistant Treasurers, and delivered to the Stock
      Purchase Contract Agent.

            "Market Disruption Event" has the meaning set forth in Section
      5.01(a).

            "Maximum Daily Settlement Rate" has the meaning set forth in Section
      5.01(a).

            "Minimum Daily Settlement Rate" has the meaning set forth in Section
      5.01(a).

            "Non-Electing Share" has the meaning set forth in Section
      5.04(b)(i).

            "Normal Common Equity Unit" means the collective rights and
      obligations of a Holder of a Normal Common Equity Unit Certificate in
      respect of (i) a 1/80 undivided beneficial interest in a Series A Trust
      Security, (ii) a 1/80 undivided beneficial interest in a Series B Trust
      Security, in each case subject to the Pledge thereof, and (iii) the
      related Stock Purchase Contract.

            "Normal Common Equity Unit Certificate" means a certificate
      evidencing the rights and obligations of a Holder in respect of the number
      of Normal Common Equity Units specified on such certificate.

            "NYSE" has the meaning set forth in Section 5.01(a).

            "Officers' Certificate" means a certificate signed by (i) either the
      Company's Chief Executive Officer, its President or one of its Vice
      Presidents, and (ii) either the Company's Corporate Secretary or one of
      its Assistant Corporate Secretaries or its

                                       6

Treasurer or one of its Assistant Treasurers, and delivered to the Stock
      Purchase Contract Agent.

            "Opinion Of Counsel" means a written opinion of counsel, who may be
      counsel to the Company (and who may be an employee of the Company), and
      who shall be reasonably acceptable to the Stock Purchase Contract Agent.
      An Opinion of Counsel may rely on certificates as to matters of fact.

            "Outstanding Common Equity Units" means as of the date of
      determination, all Common Equity Units evidenced by Certificates
      theretofore authenticated, executed and delivered under this Agreement,
      except:

            (i) if a Termination Event has occurred, (x) Normal Common Equity
      Units for which the underlying Trust Preferred Securities have been
      theretofore deposited with the Stock Purchase Contract Agent in trust for
      the Holders of such Normal Common Equity Units and (y) Stripped Common
      Equity Units;

            (ii) Common Equity Units evidenced by Certificates theretofore
      cancelled by the Stock Purchase Contract Agent or delivered to the Stock
      Purchase Contract Agent for cancellation or deemed cancelled pursuant to
      the provisions of this Agreement; and

            (iii) Common Equity Units evidenced by Certificates in exchange for
      or in lieu of which other Certificates have been authenticated, executed
      on behalf of the Holder and delivered pursuant to this Agreement, other
      than any such Certificate in respect of which there shall have been
      presented to the Stock Purchase Contract Agent proof satisfactory to it
      that such Certificate is held by a protected purchaser in whose hands the
      Common Equity Units evidenced by such Certificate are valid obligations of
      the Company;

            provided, however, that in determining whether the Holders of the
      requisite number of the Common Equity Units have given any request,
      demand, authorization, direction, notice, consent or waiver hereunder,
      Common Equity Units owned by the Company or any Affiliate of the Company
      shall be disregarded and deemed not to be Outstanding Common Equity Units,
      except that, in determining whether the Stock Purchase Contract Agent
      shall be authorized and protected in relying upon any such request,
      demand, authorization, direction, notice, consent or waiver, only Common
      Equity Units that a Responsible Officer of the Stock Purchase Contract
      Agent actually knows to be so owned shall be so disregarded. Common Equity
      Units so owned that have been pledged in good faith may be regarded as
      Outstanding Common Equity Units if the pledgee establishes to the
      satisfaction of the Stock Purchase Contract Agent the pledgee's right so
      to act with respect to such Common Equity Units and that the pledgee is
      not the Company or any Affiliate of the Company.

            "Payment Date" means each February 15, May 15, August 15 and
      November 15 of each year, commencing August 15, 2005.

            "Person" means a legal person, including any individual,
      corporation, estate, partnership, joint venture, association, joint-stock
      company, limited liability company,

                                       7

trust, unincorporated organization or government or any agency or
      political subdivision thereof or any other entity of whatever nature.

            "Plan" means an employee benefit plan that is subject to ERISA, a
      plan or individual retirement account that is subject to Section 4975 of
      the Code or any entity whose assets are considered assets of any such
      plan.

            "Pledge" means the pledge under the Pledge Agreement of the Trust
      Preferred Securities or the Treasury Securities, as the case may be, in
      each case constituting a part of the Common Equity Units.

            "Pledge Agreement" means the Pledge Agreement, dated as of the date
      hereof, among the Company, the Collateral Agent, the Custodial Agent, the
      Securities Intermediary and the Stock Purchase Contract Agent, on its own
      behalf and as attorney-in-fact for the Holders from time to time of the
      Common Equity Units, as amended from time to time.

            "Pledged Treasury Securities" has the meaning set forth in Section
      1.01(e) of the Pledge Agreement.

            "Pledged Trust Preferred Securities" has the meaning set forth in
      Section 1.01(e) of the Pledge Agreement.

            "Predecessor Certificate" means a Predecessor Normal Common Equity
      Unit Certificate or a Predecessor Stripped Common Equity Unit Certificate.

            "Predecessor Normal Common Equity Unit Certificate" of any
      particular Normal Common Equity Unit Certificate means every previous
      Normal Common Equity Unit Certificate evidencing all or a portion of the
      rights and obligations of the Company and the Holder under the Normal
      Common Equity Units evidenced thereby; and, for the purposes of this
      definition, any Normal Common Equity Unit Certificate authenticated and
      delivered under Section 3.10 in exchange for or in lieu of a mutilated,
      destroyed, lost or stolen Normal Common Equity Unit Certificate shall be
      deemed to evidence the same rights and obligations of the Company and the
      Holder as the mutilated, destroyed, lost or stolen Normal Common Equity
      Unit Certificate.

            "Predecessor Stripped Common Equity Unit Certificate" of any
      particular Stripped Common Equity Unit Certificate means every previous
      Stripped Common Equity Unit Certificate evidencing all or a portion of the
      rights and obligations of the Company and the Holder under the Stripped
      Common Equity Units evidenced thereby; and, for the purposes of this
      definition, any Stripped Common Equity Unit Certificate authenticated and
      delivered under Section 3.10 in exchange for or in lieu of a mutilated,
      destroyed, lost or stolen Stripped Common Equity Unit Certificate shall be
      deemed to evidence the same rights and obligations of the Company and the
      Holder as the mutilated, destroyed, lost or stolen Stripped Common Equity
      Unit Certificate.

            "Proceeds" has the meaning set forth in Section 1.01(e) of the
      Pledge Agreement.

                                       8

"Prospectus" means the prospectus relating to the delivery of shares
      or any securities in connection with an Early Settlement pursuant to
      Section 5.07 or a Cash Merger Early Settlement of Stock Purchase Contracts
      pursuant to Section 5.04(b)(ii), in the form in which first filed, or
      transmitted for filing, with the Securities and Exchange Commission after
      the effective date of the Registration Statement pursuant to Rule 424(b)
      under the Securities Act, including the documents incorporated by
      reference therein as of the date of such Prospectus.

            "Purchase Price" has the meaning set forth in Section 5.01(a).

            "Purchased Shares" has the meaning set forth in Section
      5.04(a)(vi)(A).

            "Record Date" for any distribution and Contract Payment payable on
      any Payment Date means, as to any Global Certificate or any other
      Certificate, the first business day of the calendar month in which the
      relevant Payment Date falls; provided that the Company may, at its option,
      upon notice to the Stock Purchase Contract Agent, select any other day as
      the Record Date for any Payment Date so long as such Record Date selected
      is more than one Business Day but less than 60 Business Days prior to such
      Payment Date.

            "Reference Dealer" means a dealer engaged in trading of convertible
      securities.

            "Reference Price" means $43.35.

            "Registration Statement" means a registration statement under the
      Securities Act prepared by the Company covering, inter alia, the delivery
      by the Company of any securities in connection with an Early Settlement on
      the Early Settlement Date or a Cash Merger Early Settlement of Stock
      Purchase Contracts on the Cash Merger Early Settlement Date under Section
      5.04(b)(ii), including all exhibits thereto and the documents incorporated
      by reference in the prospectus contained in such registration statement,
      and any post-effective amendments thereto.

            "Relevant Exchange" has the meaning set forth in Section 5.01(a).

            "Remarketing", in respect of a series of Trust Preferred Securities,
      has the meaning set forth in the applicable Trust Agreement.

            "Remarketing Agent", in respect of a series of Trust Preferred
      Securities," has the meaning set forth in the applicable Trust Agreement.

            "Remarketing Agreement", in respect of a series of Trust Preferred
      Securities, has the meaning set forth in the applicable Trust Agreement.

            "Remarketing Date", in respect of a series of Trust Preferred
      Securities, has the meaning set forth in the applicable Trust Agreement.

            "Remarketing Fee", in respect of a series of Trust Preferred
      Securities, has the meaning set forth in the applicable Trust Agreement.

                                       9

"Remarketing Settlement Date" each "Remarketing Settlement Date" as
      defined the Trust Agreement relating to MetLife Capital Trust II and
      "Remarketing Settlement Date" as defined the Trust Agreement relating to
      MetLife Capital Trust III.

            "Reorganization Event" has the meaning set forth in Section 5.04(b).

            "Responsible Officer" shall mean, when used with respect to the
      Stock Purchase Contact Agent, any officer within the corporate trust
      department of the Stock Purchase Contract Agent, including any vice
      president, assistant vice president, assistant secretary, assistant
      treasurer, trust officer or any other officer of the Stock Purchase
      Contract Agent who customarily performs functions similar to those
      performed by the Persons who at the time shall be such officers,
      respectively, or to whom any corporate trust matter is referred because of
      such person's knowledge of and familiarity with the particular subject and
      who shall have direct responsibility for the administration of this
      Agreement.

            "Second Applicable Remarketing Settlement Date" means, with respect
      to the Series A Trust Preferred Securities, November 15, 2008, if the
      Remarketing of the Series A Trust Preferred Securities on the First
      Applicable Remarketing Settlement Date for the Series A Trust Preferred
      Securities is a Failed Remarketing; with respect to the Series B Trust
      Preferred Securities, three months after the First Applicable Remarketing
      Settlement Date for the Series B Trust Preferred Securities, if the
      Remarketing of the Series B Trust Preferred Securities on the First
      Applicable Remarketing Settlement Date for the Series B Trust Preferred
      Securities is a Failed Remarketing.

            "Securities Act" means the Securities Act of 1933, as amended and
      any statute successor thereto, in each case as amended from time to time,
      and the rules and regulations promulgated thereunder.

            "Securities Intermediary" means JPMorgan Chase Bank, National
      Association, as Securities Intermediary under the Pledge Agreement until a
      successor Securities Intermediary shall have become such pursuant to the
      applicable provisions of the Pledge Agreement, and thereafter "Securities
      Intermediary" shall mean such successor or any subsequent successor who is
      appointed pursuant to the Pledge Agreement.

            "Security Register" and "Security Registrar" have the respective
      meanings set forth in Section 3.05.

            "Senior Debt" has the meaning set forth in Section 6.1 of the First
      Supplemental Indenture.

            "Separate Trust Preferred Securities" means Trust Preferred
      Securities that are no longer a component of Normal Common Equity Units.

            "Series A Trust Preferred Security" means a "Trust Preferred
      Security" as defined in the Trust Agreement relating to MetLife Capital
      Trust II.

            "Series B Trust Preferred Security" means a "Trust Preferred
      Security" as defined the Trust Agreement relating to MetLife Capital Trust
      III.

                                       10

"Settlement Rate" has the meaning set forth in Section 5.01(a).

            "Stated Amount" means, with respect to any one Normal Common Equity
      Unit or Stripped Common Equity Unit, $25.00 prior to the Initial Stock
      Purchase Date and $12.50 thereafter after the Subsequent Stock Purchase
      Date $12.50, and, with respect to any one Trust Preferred Security,
      $1,000.

            "Stock Purchase Contract" means, with respect to any Common Equity
      Units, the contract forming a part of such Common Equity Units and
      obligating (i) the Company to sell, and the Holder of such Common Equity
      Units to purchase, shares of Common Stock and (ii) the Company to pay the
      Holder thereof Contract Payments, in each case on the terms and subject to
      the conditions set forth in Article V hereof.

            "Stock Purchase Contract Agent" means the Person named as the "Stock
      Purchase Contract Agent" in the first paragraph of this Agreement until a
      successor Stock Purchase Contract Agent shall have become such pursuant to
      the applicable provisions of this Agreement, and thereafter "Stock
      Purchase Contract Agent" shall mean such Person or any subsequent
      successor who is appointed pursuant to this Agreement.

            "Stock Purchase Contract Settlement Fund" has the meaning set forth
      in Section 5.03.

            "Stock Purchase Date" means each of the Initial Stock Purchase Date
      and the Subsequent Stock Purchase Date.

            "Stripped Common Equity Units" means, following the substitution of
      Treasury Securities for Pledged Trust Preferred Securities as collateral
      to secure a Holder's obligations under the applicable Stock Purchase
      Contract, the collective rights and obligations of a Holder of a Stripped
      Common Equity Unit Certificate in respect of such Treasury Securities,
      subject to the Pledge thereof, and the related Stock Purchase Contract.

            "Stripped Common Equity Unit Certificate" means a certificate
      evidencing the rights and obligations of a Holder in respect of the number
      of Stripped Common Equity Units specified on such certificate.

            "Subsequent Stock Purchase Date" means February 15, 2009, provided
      that the Subsequent Stock Purchase Date may be deferred for quarterly
      periods until February 15, 2010 in accordance with Section 5.02(b)(v).

            "Successful", in respect of a series of Trust Preferred Securities,
      has the meaning set forth in the applicable Trust Agreement.

            "Termination Date" means the date, if any, on which a Termination
      Event occurs.

            "Termination Event" means the occurrence of any of the following
      events:

                                       11

(i) at any time on or prior to the Subsequent Stock Purchase Date, a
      judgment, decree or court order shall have been entered granting relief
      under the Bankruptcy Code, adjudicating the Company to be insolvent, or
      approving as properly filed a petition seeking reorganization or
      liquidation of the Company or any other similar applicable federal or
      state law and if such judgment, decree or order shall have been entered
      more than 60 days prior to the Stock Purchase Date, such decree or order
      shall have continued undischarged and unstayed for a period of 60 days;

            (ii) at any time on or prior to the Subsequent Stock Purchase Date,
      a judgment, decree or court order for the appointment of a receiver or
      liquidator or trustee or assignee n bankruptcy or insolvency of the
      Company or of its property, or for the termination or liquidation of its
      affairs, shall have been entered and if such judgment, decree or order
      shall have been entered more than 60 days prior to the Stock Purchase
      Date, such judgment, decree or order shall have continued undischarged and
      unstayed for a period of 60 days; or

            (iii) at any time on or prior to the Subsequent Stock Purchase Date,
      the Company shall file a petition for relief under the Bankruptcy Code, or
      shall consent to the filing of a bankruptcy proceeding against it, or
      shall file a petition or answer or consent seeking reorganization or
      liquidation under the Bankruptcy Code or any other similar applicable
      federal or state law, or shall consent to the filing of any such petition,
      or shall consent to the appointment of a receiver or liquidator or trustee
      or assignee in bankruptcy or insolvency of it or of its property, or shall
      make an assignment for the benefit of creditors, or shall admit in writing
      its inability to pay its debts generally as they become due.

            "Third Applicable Remarketing Settlement Date" means, with respect
      to the Series A Trust Preferred Securities, February 15, 2009, if the
      Remarketing of the Series A Trust Preferred Securities on the Second
      Applicable Remarketing Settlement Date for the Series A Trust Preferred
      Securities is a Failed Remarketing; and, with respect to the Series B
      Trust Preferred Securities, the day that is three months after the Second
      Applicable Remarketing Settlement Date for the Series B Trust Preferred
      Securities, if the Remarketing of the Series B Trust Preferred Securities
      on the Second Applicable Remarketing Settlement Date for the Series B
      Trust Preferred Securities was a Failed Remarketing.

            "Threshold Appreciation Price" means $53.10.

            "TIA" means the Trust Indenture Act of 1939, as amended from time to
      time, or any successor legislation.

            "Trading Day" has the meaning set forth in Section 5.01(a).

            "Trading Day Period" has the meaning set forth in Section 5.01(a).

            "Treasury Security" means a zero-coupon U.S. Treasury Security
      maturing on the Applicable Remarketing Settlement Date with a principal
      amount of $1,000 payable on the Applicable Remarketing Settlement Date and
      with the CUSIP numbers as set forth

                                       12

below:

"Trust Agreement" means each of the Amended and Restated
      Declarations of Trust, dated as of the date hereof, among the Company, as
      Sponsor, the Property Trustee, the Delaware Trustee and the Administrative
      Trustees (each as named therein) and the several Holders (as defined
      therein) relating to MetLife Capital Trust II and MetLife Capital Trust
      III, respectively.

            "Trust Preferred Securities" means the Series A Trust Preferred
      Securities and the Series B Trust Preferred Securities, collectively.

            "Underwriters" means the underwriters identified in Schedule I to
      the Underwriting Agreement.

            "Underwriting Agreement" means the Underwriting Agreement, dated
      June 15 2005, among the Company, MetLife Capital Trust II, MetLife Capital
      Trust III, and the Underwriters, relating to the issuance of Normal Common
      Equity Units by the Company.

            "Unsecured Notes" means the unsecured junior subordinated notes of
      the Company that will be issued pursuant to the Base Indenture, in the
      Company's sole discretion, as provided in Section 5.11(c).

            "Vice President" means any vice president, whether or not designated
      by a number or a word or words added before or after the title "Vice
      President."

      Section 1.02 Compliance Certificates and Opinions.

      Except as otherwise expressly provided by this Agreement, upon any
application or request by the Company to the Stock Purchase Contract Agent to
take any action in accordance with any provision of this Agreement, the Company
shall furnish to the Stock Purchase Contract Agent an Officers' Certificate
stating that all conditions precedent, if any, provided for in this

                                       13

Agreement relating to the proposed action have been complied with and, if
reasonably requested by the Stock Purchase Contract Agent, an Opinion of Counsel
stating that, in the opinion of such counsel, all such conditions precedent, if
any, have been complied with, except that in the case of any such application or
request as to which the furnishing of such documents is specifically required by
any provision of this Agreement relating to such particular application or
request, no additional certificate or opinion need be furnished. Notwithstanding
any portion of this Agreement to the contrary, the Company shall not be required
to furnish the Stock Purchase Contract Agent an Opinion of Counsel in connection
with the issuance of the Common Equity Units pursuant to the Underwriting
Agreement.

      Every certificate or opinion with respect to compliance with a condition
or covenant provided for in this Agreement (other than the Officers' Certificate
provided for in Section 10.05) shall include:

            (i) a statement that each individual signing such certificate or
      opinion has read such covenant or condition and the definitions herein
      relating thereto;

            (ii) a brief statement as to the nature and scope of the examination
      or investigation upon which the statements or opinions contained in such
      certificate or opinion are based;

            (iii) a statement that, in the opinion of each such individual, he
      or she has made such examination or investigation as is necessary to
      enable such individual to express an informed opinion as to whether or not
      such covenant or condition has been complied with; and

            (iv) a statement as to whether, in the opinion of each such
      individual, such condition or covenant has been complied with.

      Section 1.03 Form of Documents Delivered to Stock Purchase Contract Agent.

      In any case where several matters are required to be certified by, or
covered by an opinion of, any specified Person, it is not necessary that all
such matters be certified by, or covered by the opinion of, only one such
Person, or that they be so certified or covered by only one document, but one
such Person may certify or give an opinion with respect to some matters and one
or more other such Persons as to other matters, and any such Person may certify
or give an opinion as to such matters in one or several documents. Any
certificate or opinion of an officer of the Company may be based, insofar as it
relates to legal matters, upon a certificate or opinion of, or representations
by, counsel, unless such officer knows, or in the exercise of reasonable care
should know, that the certificate or opinion or representations with respect to
the matters upon which its certificate or opinion is based are erroneous. Any
such certificate or Opinion of Counsel may be based, insofar as it relates to
factual matters, upon a certificate or opinion of, or representations by, an
officer or officers of the Company unless such counsel knows, or in the exercise
of reasonable care should know, that the certificate or opinion or
representations with respect to such matters are erroneous.

                                       14

Where any Person is required to make, give or execute two or more
applications, requests, consents, certificates, statements, opinions or other
instruments under this Agreement, they may, but need not, be consolidated and
form one instrument.

      Section 1.04 Acts of Holders; Record Dates.

      (a) Any request, demand, authorization, direction, notice, consent, waiver
or other action provided by this Agreement to be given or taken by Holders may
be embodied in and evidenced by one or more instruments of substantially similar
tenor signed by such Holders in person or by an agent duly appointed in writing;
and, except as herein otherwise expressly provided, such action shall become
effective when such instrument or instruments are delivered to the Stock
Purchase Contract Agent and, where it is hereby expressly required, to the
Company. Such instrument or instruments (and the action embodied therein and
evidenced thereby) are herein sometimes referred to as the "Act" of the Holders
signing such instrument or instruments. Proof of execution of any such
instrument or of a writing appointing any such agent shall be sufficient for any
purpose of this Agreement and (subject to Section 7.01) conclusive in favor of
the Stock Purchase Contract Agent and the Company, if made in the manner
provided in this Section.

      (b) The fact and date of the execution by any Person of any such
instrument or writing may be proved in any manner that the Stock Purchase
Contract Agent deems sufficient.

      (c) The ownership of Common Equity Units shall be proved by the Security
Register.

      (d) Any request, demand, authorization, direction, notice, consent, waiver
or other Act of the Holder of any Common Equity Units shall bind every future
Holder of the same Common Equity Units and the Holder of every Certificate
evidencing such Common Equity Units issued upon the registration of transfer
thereof or in exchange therefor or in lieu thereof in respect of anything done,
omitted or suffered to be done by the Stock Purchase Contract Agent or the
Company in reliance thereon, whether or not notation of such action is made upon
such Certificate.

      (e) The Company may set any date as a record date for the purpose of
determining the Holders of Outstanding Common Equity Units entitled to give,
make or take any request, demand, authorization, direction, notice, consent,
waiver or other action provided or permitted by this Agreement to be given, made
or taken by Holders of Common Equity Units. If any record date is set pursuant
to this paragraph, the Holders of the Outstanding Normal Common Equity Units and
the Outstanding Stripped Common Equity Units, as the case may be, on such record
date, and no other Holders, shall be entitled to take the relevant action with
respect to the Normal Common Equity Units or the Stripped Common Equity Units,
as the case may be, whether or not such Holders remain Holders after such record
date; provided that no such action shall be effective hereunder unless taken
prior to or on the applicable Expiration Date by Holders of the requisite number
of Outstanding Common Equity Units on such record date. Nothing contained in
this paragraph shall be construed to prevent the Company from setting a new
record date for any action for which a record date has previously been set
pursuant to this paragraph (whereupon the record date previously set shall
automatically and with no action by any Person be cancelled and be of no
effect), and nothing contained in this paragraph shall be construed to

                                       15

render ineffective any action taken by Holders of the requisite number of
Outstanding Common Equity Units on the date such action is taken. Promptly after
any record date is set pursuant to this paragraph, the Company, at its own
expense, shall cause notice of such record date, the proposed action by Holders
and the applicable Expiration Date to be given to the Stock Purchase Contract
Agent in writing and to each Holder of Common Equity Units in the manner set
forth in Section 1.06.

      With respect to any record date set pursuant to this Section 1.04(e), the
Company may designate any date as the "Expiration Date" and from time to time
may change the Expiration Date to any earlier or later day; provided that no
such change shall be effective unless notice of the proposed new Expiration Date
is given to the Stock Purchase Contract Agent in writing, and to each Holder of
Common Equity Unit in the manner set forth in Section 1.06, prior to or on the
existing Expiration Date. If an Expiration Date is not designated with respect
to any record date set pursuant to this Section, the Company shall be deemed to
have initially designated the 180th day after such record date as the Expiration
Date with respect thereto, subject to its right to change the Expiration Date as
provided in this paragraph. Notwithstanding the foregoing, no Expiration Date
shall be later than the 180th day after the applicable record date.

      Section 1.05 Notices.

      Any notice or communication is duly given if in writing and delivered in
person or mailed by first-class mail (registered or certified, return receipt
requested), telecopier (with receipt confirmed) or overnight air courier
guaranteeing next day delivery, to the others' address; provided that notice
shall be deemed given to the Stock Purchase Contract Agent only upon receipt
thereof:

      If to the Stock Purchase Contract Agent:

                         J.P. Morgan Trust Company, National Association
                         Worldwide Securities Services
                         4 New York Plaza, 15th Floor
                         New York, NY  10004
                         Attention: Worldwide Securities Services
                         Telephone: (212) 623-5233
                         Facsimile: (212) 623-6215

      If to the Company:

                         MetLife, Inc.
                         27-01 Queens Plaza North
                         Long Island City, NY  11101
                         Attention: Treasurer
                         Facsimile: 212-578-0266

                                    16

If to the Collateral Agent:

                         JPMorgan Chase Bank, National Association
                         Worldwide Securities Services
                         4 New York Plaza, 15th Floor
                         New York, NY  10004
                         Attention: Worldwide Securities Services
                         Telephone: (212) 623-5233
                         Facsimile: (212) 623-6215

      If to the Debenture Trustee:

                         J.P. Morgan Trust Company, National Association
                         Worldwide Securities Services
                         4 New York Plaza, 15th Floor
                         New York, NY  10004
                         Attention: Worldwide Securities Services
                         Telephone: (212) 623-5233
                         Facsimile: (212) 623-6215

      The Stock Purchase Contract Agent shall send to the Debenture Trustee at
the telecopier number set forth above a copy of any notices in the form of
Exhibits C, D, E or F it sends or receives.

      Section 1.06 Notice to Holders; Waiver.

      Where this Agreement provides for notice to Holders of any event, such
notice shall be sufficiently given (unless otherwise herein expressly provided)
if in writing and mailed, first-class postage prepaid, to each Holder affected
by such event, at its address as it appears in the Security Register, not later
than the latest date, and not earlier than the earliest date, prescribed for the
giving of such notice. In any case where notice to Holders is given by mail,
neither the failure to mail such notice, nor any defect in any notice so mailed
to any particular Holder, shall affect the sufficiency of such notice with
respect to other Holders. Where this Agreement provides for notice in any
manner, such notice may be waived in writing by the Person entitled to receive
such notice, either before or after the event, and such waiver shall be the
equivalent of such notice. Waivers of notice by Holders shall be filed with the
Stock Purchase Contract Agent, but such filing shall not be a condition
precedent to the validity of any action taken in reliance upon such waiver.

      In case by reason of the suspension of regular mail service or by reason
of any other cause it shall be impracticable to give such notice by mail, then
such notification as shall be made with the approval of the Stock Purchase
Contract Agent shall constitute a sufficient notification for every purpose
hereunder.

                                       17

Section 1.07 Effect of Headings and Table of Contents.

      The Article and Section headings herein and the Table of Contents are for
convenience only and shall not affect the construction hereof.

      Section 1.08 Successors and Assigns.

      All covenants and agreements in this Agreement by the Company and the
Stock Purchase Contract Agent shall bind their respective successors and
assigns, whether so expressed or not.

      Section 1.09 Separability Clause.

      In case any provision in this Agreement or in the Common Equity Units
shall be invalid, illegal or unenforceable, the validity, legality and
enforceability of the remaining provisions hereof and thereof shall not in any
way be affected or impaired thereby.

      Section 1.10 Benefits of Agreement.

      Nothing contained in this Agreement or in the Common Equity Units, express
or implied, shall give to any Person, other than the parties hereto and their
successors hereunder and, to the extent provided hereby, the Holders, any
benefits or any legal or equitable right, remedy or claim under this Agreement.
The Holders from time to time shall be beneficiaries of this Agreement and shall
be bound by all of the terms and conditions hereof and of the Common Equity
Units evidenced by their Certificates by their acceptance of delivery of such
Certificates.

      Section 1.11 Governing Law.

      THIS AGREEMENT AND THE COMMON EQUITY UNITS SHALL BE GOVERNED BY, AND
CONSTRUED IN ACCORDANCE WITH, THE LAWS OF THE STATE OF NEW YORK.

      Section 1.12 Legal Holidays.

      In any case where any Payment Date shall not be a Business Day
(notwithstanding any other provision of this Agreement or the Common Equity
Units), Contract Payments or other distributions shall not be paid on such date,
but Contract Payments or such other distributions shall be paid on the next
succeeding Business Day with the same force and effect as if made on such
Payment Date, provided that if such Business Day is in the next succeeding
calendar year, then payment of the Contract Payments or other distributions will
be made on the Business Day immediately preceding such Payment Date. No interest
shall accrue or be payable by the Company or to any Holder for the period from
and after any such Payment Date.

      In any case where the Initial Stock Purchase Date, the Subsequent Stock
Purchase Date or any Early Settlement Date or Cash Merger Early Settlement Date
shall not be a Business Day (notwithstanding any other provision of this
Agreement or the Common Equity Units), Stock Purchase Contracts shall not be
performed and Early Settlement and Cash Merger Early Settlement shall not be
effected on such date, but Stock Purchase Contracts shall be performed or Early
Settlement or Cash Merger Early Settlement shall be effected, as applicable, on
the next

                                       18

succeeding Business Day with the same force and effect as if made on such Stock
Purchase Date, Early Settlement Date or Cash Merger Early Settlement Date, as
applicable.

      Section 1.13 Counterparts.

      This Agreement may be executed in any number of counterparts by the
parties hereto on separate counterparts, each of which, when so executed and
delivered, shall be deemed an original, but all such counterparts shall together
constitute one and the same instrument.

      Section 1.14 Inspection of Agreement.

      A copy of this Agreement shall be available at all reasonable times during
normal business hours at the Corporate Trust Office for inspection by any Holder
or Beneficial Owner.

      Section 1.15 Appointment of Financial Institution as Agent for the
Company.

      The Company may appoint a financial institution (which may be the
Collateral Agent) to act as its agent in performing its obligations and in
accepting and enforcing performance of the obligations of the Stock Purchase
Contract Agent and the Holders, under this Agreement and the Stock Purchase
Contracts, by giving notice of such appointment in the manner provided in
Section 1.05 hereof. Any such appointment shall not relieve the Company in any
way from its obligations hereunder.

      Section 1.16 No Waiver.

      No failure on the part of the Company, the Stock Purchase Contract Agent,
the Collateral Agent, the Securities Intermediary or any of their respective
agents to exercise, and no course of dealing with respect to, and no delay in
exercising, any right, power or remedy hereunder shall operate as a waiver
thereof; nor shall any single or partial exercise by the Company, the Stock
Purchase Contract Agent, the Collateral Agent, the Securities Intermediary or
any of their respective agents of any right, power or remedy hereunder preclude
any other or further exercise thereof or the exercise of any other right, power
or remedy. The remedies herein are cumulative and are not exclusive of any
remedies provided by law.

                                   ARTICLE II

                                CERTIFICATE FORMS

      Section 2.01 Forms of Certificates Generally.

      The Certificates (including the form of Stock Purchase Contract forming
part of each Common Equity Units evidenced thereby) shall be in substantially
the form set forth in Exhibit A hereto (in the case of Certificates evidencing
Normal Common Equity Units) or Exhibit B hereto (in the case of Certificates
evidencing Stripped Common Equity Units), with such letters, numbers or other
marks of identification or designation and such legends or endorsements printed,
lithographed or engraved thereon as may be required by the rules of any
securities exchange on which the Common Equity Units are listed or any
depositary therefor, or as may,

                                       19

consistently herewith, be determined by the officers of the Company executing
such Certificates, as evidenced by their execution of the Certificates.

      The definitive Certificates shall be produced in any manner as determined
by the officers of the Company executing the Common Equity Units evidenced by
such Certificates, consistent with the provisions of this Agreement, as
evidenced by their execution thereof.

      Every Global Certificate authenticated, executed on behalf of the Holders
and delivered hereunder shall bear a legend in substantially the following form:

                  THIS CERTIFICATE IS A GLOBAL CERTIFICATE WITHIN THE MEANING OF
            THE STOCK PURCHASE CONTRACT AGREEMENT HEREINAFTER REFERRED TO AND IS
            REGISTERED IN THE NAME OF CEDE & CO., AS NOMINEE OF THE DEPOSITORY
            TRUST COMPANY, A NEW YORK CORPORATION (THE "DEPOSITARY"), THE
            DEPOSITARY OR ANOTHER NOMINEE OF THE DEPOSITARY. THIS CERTIFICATE IS
            EXCHANGEABLE FOR CERTIFICATES REGISTERED IN THE NAME OF A PERSON
            OTHER THAN THE DEPOSITARY OR ITS NOMINEE ONLY IN THE LIMITED
            CIRCUMSTANCES DESCRIBED IN THE STOCK PURCHASE CONTRACT AGREEMENT AND
            NO TRANSFER OF THIS CERTIFICATE (OTHER THAN A TRANSFER OF THIS
            CERTIFICATE AS A WHOLE BY THE DEPOSITARY TO A NOMINEE OF THE
            DEPOSITARY OR BY A NOMINEE OF THE DEPOSITARY TO THE DEPOSITARY OR
            ANOTHER NOMINEE OF THE DEPOSITARY) MAY BE REGISTERED EXCEPT IN
            LIMITED CIRCUMSTANCES.

                  UNLESS THIS CERTIFICATE IS PRESENTED BY AN AUTHORIZED
            REPRESENTATIVE OF THE DEPOSITARY FOR REGISTRATION OF TRANSFER,
            EXCHANGE OR PAYMENT, AND ANY CERTIFICATE ISSUED IS REQUESTED IN THE
            NAME OF CEDE & CO. OR SUCH OTHER NAME AS REQUESTED BY AN AUTHORIZED
            REPRESENTATIVE OF THE DEPOSITARY (AND ANY PAYMENT HEREON IS MADE TO
            CEDE & CO. OR TO SUCH OTHER ENTITY AS IS REQUESTED BY AN AUTHORIZED
            REPRESENTATIVE OF THE DEPOSITARY), ANY TRANSFER, PLEDGE OR OTHER USE
            HEREOF FOR VALUE OR OTHERWISE BY OR TO ANY PERSON IS WRONGFUL SINCE
            THE REGISTERED OWNER HEREOF, CEDE & CO., HAS AN INTEREST HEREIN.

      Section 2.02 Form of Stock Purchase Contract Agent's Certificate of
Authentication.

      The form of the Stock Purchase Contract Agent's certificate of
authentication of the Common Equity Units shall be in substantially the form set
forth on the form of the applicable Certificates.

                                       20

ARTICLE III

                             THE COMMON EQUITY UNITS

      Section 3.01 Amount; Form and Denominations.

      The aggregate number of Common Equity Units evidenced by Certificates
authenticated, executed on behalf of the Holders and delivered hereunder is
limited to 72,000,000 (or 82,800,000 if the option granted to the Underwriters
pursuant to the Underwriting Agreement is exercised in full), except for
Certificates authenticated, executed and delivered upon registration of transfer
of, in exchange for, or in lieu of, other Certificates pursuant to Section 3.04,
Section 3.05, Section 3.10, Section 3.13, Section 3.14 or Section 8.05.

      The Certificates shall be issuable only in registered form and only in
denominations of a single Normal Common Equity Unit or Stripped Common Equity
Unit and any integral multiple thereof.

      Section 3.02 Rights and Obligations Evidenced by the Certificates.

      Each Normal Common Equity Unit Certificate shall evidence the number of
Normal Common Equity Units specified therein, with each such Normal Common
Equity Unit representing (1) prior to the Initial Stock Purchase Date, the
ownership by the Holder thereof of a 1/80 undivided beneficial interest in a
Series A Trust Preferred Security, subject to the Pledge of such Series A Trust
Preferred Security by such Holder pursuant to the Pledge Agreement, (2) the
ownership by the Holder thereof of a 1/80 undivided beneficial interest in a
Series B Trust Preferred Security and (3) one Stock Purchase Contract. The Stock
Purchase Contract Agent is hereby authorized, as attorney-in-fact for, and on
behalf of, the Holder of each Normal Common Equity Unit, to pledge, pursuant to
the Pledge Agreement, the Trust Preferred Securities forming a part of such
Normal Common Equity Unit, to the Collateral Agent for the benefit of the
Company, and to grant to the Collateral Agent, for the benefit of the Company, a
security interest in the right, title and interest of such Holder (i) the Series
A Trust Preferred Securities to secure the obligation of the Holder under each
Stock Purchase Contract to purchase shares of Common Stock on the Initial Stock
Purchase Date and (ii) the Series B Trust Preferred Securities to secure the
obligation of the Holder under each Stock Purchase Contract to purchase shares
of Common Stock on the Subsequent Stock Purchase Date.

      Upon the creation of a Stripped Common Equity Unit pursuant to Section
3.13, each Stripped Common Equity Unit Certificate shall evidence the number of
Stripped Common Equity Units specified therein, with each such Stripped Common
Equity Unit representing (1) if such Stripped Common Equity Unit is created
prior to the Initial Stock Purchase Date, the ownership by the Holder thereof of
a 1/80 undivided beneficial interest in a Treasury Security that matures as of
the Applicable Remarketing Settlement Date for the Series A Trust Preferred
Securities with a principal amount at maturity equal to $1,000, subject to the
Pledge of such interest by such Holder pursuant to the Pledge Agreement, (2) the
ownership by the Holder thereof of a 1/80 undivided beneficial interest in a
Treasury Security that matures as of the Applicable Remarketing Settlement Date
for the Series B Trust Preferred Securities with a principal amount at maturity
equal to $1,000, subject to the Pledge of such interest by such

                                       21

Holder pursuant to the Pledge Agreement, and (3) one Stock Purchase Contract.
The Stock Purchase Contract Agent is hereby authorized, as attorney-in-fact for,
and on behalf of, the Holder of each Stripped Common Equity Unit, to pledge,
pursuant to the Pledge Agreement, such Holder's interest in each Treasury
Security forming a part of such Stripped Common Equity Unit to the Collateral
Agent, for the benefit of the Company, and to grant to the Collateral Agent, for
the benefit of the Company, a security interest in the right, title and interest
of such Holder (i) the Series A Treasury Security to secure the obligation of
the Holder under each Stock Purchase Contract to purchase shares of Common Stock
on the Initial Stock Purchase Date and (ii) the Series B Treasury Security to
secure the obligation of the Holder under each Stock Purchase Contract to
purchase Shares of Common Stock on the Subsequent Stock Purchase Date.

      Such Stock Purchase Contract shall not entitle the Holder of a Common
Equity Unit to any of the rights of a holder of shares of Common Stock, prior to
the purchase of shares of Common Stock under each Stock Purchase Contract,
including, without limitation, the right to vote or receive any dividends or
other payments or to consent or to receive notice as a stockholder in respect of
the meetings of stockholders or for the election of directors of the Company or
for any other matter, or any other rights whatsoever as a stockholder of the
Company.

      Section 3.03 Execution, Authentication, Delivery and Dating.

      Subject to the provisions of Section 3.13 and Section 3.14 hereof, upon
the execution and delivery of this Agreement, and at any time and from time to
time thereafter, the Company may deliver Certificates executed by the Company to
the Stock Purchase Contract Agent for authentication, execution on behalf of the
Holders and delivery, together with a written order from the Company for
authentication of such Certificates, and the Stock Purchase Contract Agent in
accordance with such written order shall authenticate, execute on behalf of the
Holders and deliver such Certificates.

      The Certificates shall be executed on behalf of the Company by its
Chairman of the Board of Directors, its Chief Executive Officer, its President,
its Chief Financial Officer, its Treasurer or one of its Vice Presidents. The
signature of any of these officers on the Certificates may be manual or
facsimile.

      Certificates bearing the manual or facsimile signatures of individuals who
were at any time the proper officers of the Company shall bind the Company,
notwithstanding that such individuals or any of them have ceased to hold such
offices prior to the authentication and delivery of such Certificates or did not
hold such offices at the date of such Certificates.

      No Stock Purchase Contract evidenced by a Certificate shall be valid until
such Certificate has been executed on behalf of the Holder by the manual
signature of an authorized officer of the Stock Purchase Contract Agent, as such
Holder's attorney-in-fact. Such signature by an authorized officer of the Stock
Purchase Contract Agent shall be conclusive evidence that the Holder of such
Certificate has entered into the Stock Purchase Contracts evidenced by such
Certificate.

      Each Certificate shall be dated the date of its authentication.

                                       22

No Certificate shall be entitled to any benefit under this Agreement or be
valid or obligatory for any purpose unless there appears on such Certificate a
certificate of authentication substantially in the form provided for herein
executed by an authorized officer of the Stock Purchase Contract Agent by manual
signature, and such certificate upon any Certificate shall be conclusive
evidence, and the only evidence, that such Certificate has been duly
authenticated and delivered hereunder.

      Section 3.04 Temporary Certificates.

      Pending the preparation of definitive Certificates, the Company shall
execute and deliver to the Stock Purchase Contract Agent, and the Stock Purchase
Contract Agent shall authenticate, execute on behalf of the Holders, and
deliver, in lieu of such definitive Certificates, temporary Certificates that
are in substantially the form set forth in Exhibit A or Exhibit B hereto, as the
case may be, with such letters, numbers or other marks of identification or
designation and such legends or endorsements printed, lithographed or engraved
thereon as may be required by the rules of any securities exchange on which the
Normal Common Equity Units or Stripped Common Equity Units, as the case may be,
are listed, or as may, consistently herewith, be determined by the officers of
the Company executing such Certificates, as evidenced by their execution of the
Certificates.

      If temporary Certificates are issued, the Company will cause definitive
Certificates to be prepared without unreasonable delay. After the preparation of
definitive Certificates, the temporary Certificates shall be exchangeable for
definitive Certificates upon surrender of the temporary Certificates at the
Corporate Trust Office, at the expense of the Company and without charge to the
Holder. Upon surrender for cancellation of any one or more temporary
Certificates, the Company shall execute and deliver to the Stock Purchase
Contract Agent, and the Stock Purchase Contract Agent shall authenticate,
execute on behalf of the Holder, and deliver in exchange therefor, one or more
definitive Certificates of like tenor and denominations and evidencing a like
number of Common Equity Units as the temporary Certificate or Certificates so
surrendered. Until so exchanged, the temporary Certificates shall in all
respects evidence the same benefits and the same obligations with respect to the
Common Equity Units evidenced thereby as definitive Certificates.

      Section 3.05 Registration; Registration of Transfer and Exchange.

      The Stock Purchase Contract Agent shall keep at the Corporate Trust Office
a register (the "Security Register") in which, subject to such reasonable
regulations as it may prescribe, the Stock Purchase Contract Agent shall provide
for the registration of Certificates and of transfers of Certificates (the Stock
Purchase Contract Agent, in such capacity, the "Security Registrar"). The
Security Registrar shall record separately the registration and transfer of the
Certificates evidencing Normal Common Equity Units and Stripped Common Equity
Units.

      Upon surrender for registration of transfer of any Certificate at the
Corporate Trust Office, the Company shall execute and deliver to the Stock
Purchase Contract Agent, and the Stock Purchase Contract Agent shall
authenticate, execute on behalf of the designated transferee or transferees, and
deliver, in the name of the designated transferee or transferees, one or more

                                       23

new Certificates of any authorized denominations, of like tenor, and evidencing
a like number of Normal Common Equity Units or Stripped Common Equity Units, as
the case may be.

      At the option of the Holder, Certificates evidencing Normal Common Equity
Units or Stripped Common Equity Units may be exchanged for other Certificates,
of any authorized denominations and evidencing a like number of Normal Common
Equity Units or Stripped Common Equity Units, as the case may be, upon surrender
of the Certificates to be exchanged at the Corporate Trust Office. Whenever any
Certificates are so surrendered for exchange, the Company shall execute and
deliver to the Stock Purchase Contract Agent, and the Stock Purchase Contract
Agent shall authenticate, execute on behalf of the Holder, and deliver the
Certificates that the Holder making the exchange is entitled to receive.

      All Certificates issued upon any registration of transfer or exchange of a
Certificate shall evidence the ownership of the same number of Normal Common
Equity Units or Stripped Common Equity Units, as the case may be, and be
entitled to the same benefits and subject to the same obligations under this
Agreement as the Normal Common Equity Units or Stripped Common Equity Units, as
the case may be, evidenced by the Certificate surrendered upon such registration
of transfer or exchange.

      Every Certificate presented or surrendered for registration of transfer or
exchange shall (if so required by the Security Registrar) be duly endorsed, or
be accompanied by a written instrument of transfer in form satisfactory to the
Company and the Stock Purchase Contract Agent duly executed, by the Holder
thereof or its attorney duly authorized in writing.

      No service charge shall be made for any registration of transfer or
exchange of a Certificate, but the Company and the Security Registrar may
require payment from the Holder of a sum sufficient to cover any tax or other
governmental charge that may be imposed in connection with any registration of
transfer or exchange of Certificates, other than any exchanges pursuant to
Section 3.04, Section 3.06 and Section 8.05 not involving any transfer.

      Notwithstanding the foregoing, the Company shall not be obligated to
execute and deliver to the Stock Purchase Contract Agent, and the Stock Purchase
Contract Agent shall not be obligated to authenticate, execute on behalf of the
Holder and deliver any Certificate in exchange for any other Certificate
presented or surrendered for registration of transfer or for exchange on or
after the Business Day immediately preceding the earliest to occur of any Early
Settlement Date with respect to the Common Equity Units evidenced by such
Certificate, any Cash Merger Early Settlement Date with respect to the Common
Equity Units evidenced by such Certificate, the Subsequent Stock Purchase Date
or the Termination Date. In lieu of delivery of a new Certificate, upon
satisfaction of the applicable conditions specified above in this Section and
receipt of appropriate registration or transfer instructions from such Holder,
the Stock Purchase Contract Agent shall:

            (i) if the Initial Stock Purchase Date or the Subsequent Stock
      Purchase Date (including upon any Cash Settlement) or an Early Settlement
      Date or a Cash Merger Early Settlement Date with respect to such other
      Certificate has occurred, deliver to such Holder the shares of Common
      Stock issuable in respect of the Stock Purchase Contracts forming a part
      of the Common Equity Units evidenced by such other Certificate;

                                       24

(ii) if a Termination Event shall have occurred prior to the Initial
      Stock Purchase Date, transfer the Series A Trust Preferred Securities or
      the Treasury Securities pledged in lieu thereof, as the case may be,
      evidenced thereby, to such Holder, in each case subject to the applicable
      conditions and in accordance with the applicable provisions of Section
      3.15 and Article V hereof; or

            (iii) if a Termination Event shall have occurred prior to the
      Subsequent Stock Purchase Date, transfer the Series B Trust Preferred
      Securities or the Treasury Securities pledged in lieu thereof, as the case
      may be, evidenced thereby, to such Holder, in each case subject to the
      applicable conditions and in accordance with the applicable provisions of
      Section 3.15 and Article V hereof.

      Section 3.06 Book-Entry Interests.

      The Certificates, on original issuance, will be issued in the form of one
or more fully registered Global Certificates, to be delivered to the Depositary
or its custodian by, or on behalf of, the Company. The Company hereby designates
DTC as the initial Depositary. Such Global Certificates shall initially be
registered on the books of the Security Registrar in the name of Cede & Co., the
nominee of the Depositary, and no Beneficial Owner will receive a definitive
Certificate representing such Beneficial Owner's interest in such Global
Certificate, except as provided in Section 3.09. The Stock Purchase Contract
Agent shall enter into an agreement with the Depositary if so requested by the
Company. Unless and until definitive, fully registered Certificates have been
issued to Beneficial Owners pursuant to Section 3.09:

            (i) the provisions of this Section 3.06 shall be in full force and
      effect;

            (ii) the Company, the Stock Purchase Contract Agent and the Security
      Registrar shall be entitled to deal with the Depositary for all purposes
      of this Agreement (including, without limitation, making Contract Payments
      and receiving approvals, votes or consents hereunder) as the Holder of the
      Common Equity Units and the sole holder of the Global Certificates and
      shall have no obligation to the Beneficial Owners; provided that any
      Beneficial Owner may directly enforce against the Company, without the
      involvement of the Depositary or any other Person, its right to receive
      definitive Certificates pursuant to Section 3.09;

            (iii) to the extent that the provisions of this Section 3.06
      conflict with any other provisions of this Agreement, the provisions of
      this Section 3.06 shall control; and

            (iv) the rights of the Beneficial Owners shall be exercised only
      through the Depositary and shall be limited to those established by law
      and agreements between such Beneficial Owners and the Depositary or the
      Depositary Participants; provided that any Beneficial Owner may directly
      enforce against the Company, without the involvement of the Depositary or
      any other Person, its right to receive definitive Certificates pursuant to
      Section 3.09.

Transfers of securities evidenced by Global Certificates shall be made through
the facilities of the Depositary, and any cancellation of, or increase or
decrease in the number of, such securities (including the creation of Stripped
Common Equity Units and the recreation of Normal Common

                                       25

Equity Units pursuant to Section 3.13 and Section 3.14 respectively) shall be
accomplished by making appropriate annotations on the Schedule of Increases and
Decreases for such Global Certificate.

      Section 3.07 Notices to Holders.

      Whenever a notice or other communication to the Holders is required to be
given under this Agreement, the Company, the Company's agent or the Stock
Purchase Contract Agent, as the case may be, shall give such notices and
communications to the Holders and, with respect to any Common Equity Units
registered in the name of the Depositary or the nominee of the Depositary, the
Company, the Company's agent or the Stock Purchase Contract Agent, as the case
may be, shall, except as set forth herein, have no obligations to the Beneficial
Owners.

      Section 3.08 Appointment of Successor Depositary.

      If the Depositary elects to discontinue its services as securities
depositary with respect to the Common Equity Units, the Company may, in its sole
discretion, appoint a successor Depositary with respect to the Common Equity
Units.

      Section 3.09 Definitive Certificates.

      If:

            (i) the Depositary notifies the Company that it is unwilling or
      unable to continue its services as securities depositary with respect to
      the Common Equity Units and no successor Depositary has been appointed
      pursuant to Section 3.08 within 90 days after such notice; or

            (ii) the Depositary ceases to be a "clearing agency" registered
      under Section 17A of the Exchange Act when the Depositary is required to
      be so registered to act as the Depositary and so notifies the Company, and
      no successor Depositary has been appointed pursuant to Section 3.08 within
      90 days after such notice; or

            (iii) any event of default has occurred and is continuing under
      either series of Debentures or this Agreement; or

            (iv) the Company determines in its sole discretion that the Global
      Certificates shall be exchangeable for definitive Certificates,

then (x) definitive Certificates may be prepared by the Company with respect to
such Common Equity Units and delivered to the Stock Purchase Contract Agent and
(y) upon surrender of the Global Certificates representing the Common Equity
Units by the Depositary, accompanied by registration instructions, the Company
shall cause definitive Certificates to be delivered to Beneficial Owners in
accordance with the instructions of the Depositary. The Company and the Stock
Purchase Contract Agent shall not be liable for any delay in delivery of such
instructions and may conclusively rely on and shall be authorized and protected
in relying on, such instructions. Each definitive Certificate so delivered shall
evidence Common Equity Units of the same kind and tenor as the Global
Certificate so surrendered in respect thereof.

                                       26

Section 3.10 Mutilated, Destroyed, Lost and Stolen Certificates.

      If any mutilated Certificate is surrendered to the Stock Purchase Contract
Agent, the Company shall execute and deliver to the Stock Purchase Contract
Agent, and the Stock Purchase Contract Agent shall authenticate, execute on
behalf of the Holder, and deliver in exchange therefor, a new Certificate,
evidencing the same number of Normal Common Equity Units or Stripped Common
Equity Units, as the case may be, and bearing a Certificate number not
contemporaneously outstanding.

      If there shall be delivered to the Company and the Stock Purchase Contract
Agent (i) evidence to their satisfaction of the destruction, loss or theft of
any Certificate, and (ii) such security or indemnity as may be required by them
to hold each of them and any agent of any of them harmless, then, in the absence
of notice to the Company or the Stock Purchase Contract Agent that such
Certificate has been acquired by a protected purchaser, the Company shall
execute and deliver to the Stock Purchase Contract Agent, and the Stock Purchase
Contract Agent shall authenticate, execute on behalf of the Holder, and deliver
to the Holder, in lieu of any such destroyed, lost or stolen Certificate, a new
Certificate, evidencing the same number of Normal Common Equity Units or
Stripped Common Equity Units, as the case may be, and bearing a Certificate
number not contemporaneously outstanding.

      Notwithstanding the foregoing, the Company shall not be obligated to
execute and deliver to the Stock Purchase Contract Agent, and the Stock Purchase
Contract Agent shall not be obligated to authenticate, execute on behalf of the
Holder, and deliver to the Holder, a Certificate on or after the Business Day
immediately preceding the earliest of any Early Settlement Date with respect to
such lost, stolen, destroyed or mutilated Certificate, any Cash Merger Early
Settlement Date with respect to such lost, stolen, destroyed or mutilated
Certificate, the Initial Stock Purchase Date, the Subsequent Stock Purchase Date
or the Termination Date. In lieu of delivery of a new Certificate, upon
satisfaction of the applicable conditions specified above in this Section and
receipt of appropriate registration or transfer instructions from such Holder,
the Stock Purchase Contract Agent shall:

            (i) if the Initial Stock Purchase Date, the Subsequent Stock
      Purchase Date or Early Settlement Date or Cash Merger Early Settlement
      Date with respect to such lost, stolen, destroyed or mutilated Certificate
      has occurred, deliver to such Holder the shares of Common Stock issuable
      in respect of the Stock Purchase Contracts forming a part of the Common
      Equity Units evidenced by such Certificate; or

            (ii) if a Cash Settlement with respect to such lost, stolen,
      destroyed or mutilated Certificate or if a Termination Event shall have
      occurred prior to the Initial Stock Purchase Date or prior to the
      Subsequent Stock Purchase Date, transfer the Series A Trust Preferred
      Securities and the Series B Trust Preferred Securities (in the case of a
      Termination Event occurring prior to the Initial Stock Purchase Date) or
      the Series B Trust Preferred Securities (in the case of a Termination
      Event occurring prior to the Subsequent Stock Purchase Date) or the
      Treasury Securities pledged in substitution for the applicable Trust
      Preferred Securities, as the case may be, evidenced thereby, in each case
      subject to the applicable conditions and in accordance with the applicable
      provisions of Section 3.15 and Article V hereof.

                                       27

Upon the issuance of any new Certificate under this Section, the Company
and the Stock Purchase Contract Agent may require the payment by the Holder of a
sum sufficient to cover any tax or other governmental charge that may be imposed
in relation thereto and any other fees and expenses (including, without
limitation, the fees and expenses of the Stock Purchase Contract Agent)
connected therewith.

      Every new Certificate issued pursuant to this Section in lieu of any
mutilated, destroyed, lost or stolen Certificate shall constitute an original
additional contractual obligation of the Company and of the Holder in respect of
the Common Equity Units evidenced thereby, whether or not the destroyed, lost or
stolen Certificate (and the Common Equity Units evidenced thereby) shall be at
any time enforceable by anyone, and shall be entitled to all the benefits and be
subject to all the obligations of this Agreement equally and proportionately
with any and all other Certificates delivered hereunder.

      The provisions of this Section are exclusive and shall preclude, to the
extent lawful, all other rights and remedies with respect to the replacement or
payment of mutilated, destroyed, lost or stolen Certificates.

      Section 3.11 Persons Deemed Owners.

      Prior to due presentment of a Certificate for registration of transfer,
the Company and the Stock Purchase Contract Agent, and any agent of the Company,
the Security Registrar or the Stock Purchase Contract Agent, may treat the
Person in whose name such Certificate is registered as the owner of the Common
Equity Units evidenced thereby for purposes of (subject to any applicable record
date) any payment or distribution on the Trust Preferred Securities, payment of
Contract Payments and performance of the Stock Purchase Contracts and for all
other purposes whatsoever in connection with such Common Equity Units, whether
or not such payment, distribution, or performance shall be overdue and
notwithstanding any notice to the contrary, and none of the Company, the
Security Registrar or the Stock Purchase Contract Agent, nor any agent of the
Company, the Security Registrar or the Stock Purchase Contract Agent, shall be
affected by notice to the contrary.

      Notwithstanding the foregoing, with respect to any Global Certificate,
nothing contained herein shall prevent the Company, the Security Registrar, the
Stock Purchase Contract Agent or any agent of the Company, the Security
Registrar or the Stock Purchase Contract Agent from giving effect to any written
certification, proxy or other authorization furnished by the Depositary (or its
nominee), as a Holder, with respect to such Global Certificate, or impair, as
between such Depositary and the related Beneficial Owner, the operation of
customary practices governing the exercise of rights of the Depositary (or its
nominee) as Holder of such Global Certificate. None of the Company, the Security
Registrar, the Stock Purchase Contract Agent or any agent of the Company, the
Security Registrar or the Stock Purchase Contract Agent will have any
responsibility or liability for any aspect of the records relating to or
payments made on account of beneficial ownership interests of a Global
Certificate or maintaining, supervising or reviewing any records relating to
such beneficial ownership interests.

                                       28

Section 3.12 Cancellation.

      All Certificates surrendered for delivery of shares of Common Stock on or
after the Initial Stock Purchase Date or the Subsequent Stock Purchase Date, as
applicable, or upon the transfer of Trust Preferred Securities or for delivery
of Trust Preferred Securities or Treasury Securities, as the case may be, after
the occurrence of a Termination Event or pursuant to a Cash Settlement, an Early
Settlement or a Cash Merger Early Settlement, or upon the registration of
transfer or exchange of a Common Equity Unit, or a Collateral Substitution or
the recreation of a Normal Common Equity Unit shall, if surrendered to any
Person other than the Stock Purchase Contract Agent, be delivered to the Stock
Purchase Contract Agent along with appropriate written instructions from the
Company regarding the cancellation thereof and, if not already cancelled, shall
be promptly cancelled by it. The Company may at any time deliver to the Stock
Purchase Contract Agent for cancellation any Certificates previously
authenticated, executed and delivered hereunder that the Company may have
acquired in any manner whatsoever, and all Certificates so delivered shall, upon
an Issuer Order, be promptly cancelled by the Stock Purchase Contract Agent. No
Certificates shall be authenticated, executed on behalf of the Holder and
delivered in lieu of or in exchange for any Certificates cancelled as provided
in this Section, except as expressly permitted by this Agreement. All cancelled
Certificates held by the Stock Purchase Contract Agent shall be disposed of in
accordance with its customary practices.

      If the Company or any Affiliate of the Company shall acquire any
Certificate, such acquisition shall not operate as a cancellation of such
Certificate unless and until such Certificate is delivered to the Stock Purchase
Contract Agent cancelled or for cancellation.

      Section 3.13 Creation of Stripped Common Equity Units by Substitution of
Treasury Securities.

      Subject to the conditions set forth in this Agreement, a Holder may, at
any time from and after the date of this Agreement and until 5:00 p.m. (New York
City time) on the seventh Business Day immediately preceding any Remarketing
Settlement Date, effect a Collateral Substitution and separate the Pledged Trust
Preferred Securities from the related Stock Purchase Contracts in respect of all
or a portion of such Holder's Normal Common Equity Units by substituting for
such Pledged Trust Preferred Securities of each series, Treasury Securities or
portions thereof maturing on the corresponding Applicable Remarketing Settlement
Date in an aggregate principal amount at maturity equal to the aggregate
liquidation amount of such Pledged Trust Preferred Securities; provided that
Holders may make Collateral Substitutions only in integral multiples of 80
Normal Common Equity Units. To effect such substitution, the Holder must:

            (1)   if the substitution is made prior to the Initial Stock
                  Purchase Date, deposit with the Collateral Agent a Treasury
                  Security that has a principal amount payable on the Applicable
                  Remarketing Settlement Date for the Series A Trust Preferred
                  Securities of $1,000;

            (2)   deposit with the Collateral Agent a Treasury Security that has
                  a principal amount payable on the Applicable Remarketing
                  Settlement Date for the Series B Trust Preferred Securities of
                  $1,000; and

                                       29

(3)   transfer 80 Normal Common Equity Units to the Stock Purchase
                  Contract Agent accompanied by a notice to the Stock Purchase
                  Contract Agent, substantially in the form of Exhibit C hereto,
                  (i) stating that the Holder has deposited the relevant amount
                  of Treasury Securities with the Securities Intermediary for
                  credit to the Collateral Account and (ii) instructing the
                  Stock Purchase Contract Agent to instruct the Collateral Agent
                  to release the Pledged Trust Preferred Securities underlying
                  such Normal Common Equity Units, whereupon the Stock Purchase
                  Contract Agent shall promptly provide an instruction to such
                  effect to the Collateral Agent, substantially in the form of
                  Exhibit A to the Pledge Agreement.

Upon receipt of the Treasury Securities described in clauses (1) and (2) above
and the instruction described in clause (3) above, in accordance with the terms
of the Pledge Agreement, the Collateral Agent will cause the Securities
Intermediary to effect the release of such Pledged Trust Preferred Securities
from the Pledge and the transfer of such Trust Preferred Securities to the Stock
Purchase Contract Agent on behalf of the Holder free and clear of the Company's
security interest therein. Upon receipt of such Trust Preferred Securities, the
Stock Purchase Contract Agent shall promptly:

            (ii) cancel the related Normal Common Equity Units;

            (iii) transfer the Series A Trust Preferred Securities (if prior to
      the Initial Stock Settlement Date) and Series B Trust Preferred Securities
      to the Holder (such Trust Preferred Securities shall be tradeable as a
      separate security, independent of the resulting Stripped Common Equity
      Units); and

            (iv) authenticate, execute on behalf of such Holder and deliver
      Stripped Common Equity Units in book-entry form, or if applicable, in the
      form of a Stripped Common Equity Unit Certificate executed by the Company
      in accordance with Section 3.03 evidencing the same number of Stock
      Purchase Contracts as were evidenced by the cancelled Normal Common Equity
      Units.

      Holders who elect to separate the Trust Preferred Securities from the
related Stock Purchase Contracts and to substitute Treasury Securities for such
Trust Preferred Securities shall be responsible for any fees or expenses
(including, without limitation, fees and expenses payable to the Collateral
Agent for its services as Collateral Agent) in respect of the substitution, and
neither the Company nor the Stock Purchase Contract Agent shall be responsible
for any such fees or expenses.

      In the event a Holder making a Collateral Substitution pursuant to this
Section 3.13 fails to effect a book-entry transfer of the Normal Common Equity
Units or fails to deliver Normal Common Equity Unit Certificates to the Stock
Purchase Contract Agent after depositing Treasury Securities with the Securities
Intermediary, any distributions on the Trust Preferred Securities constituting a
part of such Normal Common Equity Units shall be held in the name of the Stock
Purchase Contract Agent or its nominee in trust for the benefit of such Holder,
until such Normal Common Equity Units are so transferred or the Normal Common
Equity Unit Certificate is so delivered, as the case may be, or until such
Holder provides evidence

                                       30

satisfactory to the Company and the Stock Purchase Contract Agent that such
Normal Common Equity Unit Certificate has been destroyed, lost or stolen,
together with any indemnity that may be required by the Stock Purchase Contract
Agent and the Company.

      Except as described in Section 5.02 or in this Section 3.13 or in
connection with a Cash Settlement, an Early Settlement, a Cash Merger Early
Settlement or a Termination Event, for so long as the Stock Purchase Contract
underlying a Normal Common Equity Unit remains in effect, such Normal Common
Equity Unit shall not be separable into its constituent parts, and the rights
and obligations of the Holder in respect of the Trust Preferred Securities and
the Stock Purchase Contract comprising such Normal Common Equity Unit may be
acquired, and may be transferred and exchanged, only as a Normal Common Equity
Unit.

      Section 3.14 Recreation of Normal Common Equity Units

      Subject to the conditions set forth in this Agreement, a Holder of
Stripped Common Equity Units may recreate Normal Common Equity Units (i) at any
time until 5:00 p.m. (New York City time) on the seventh Business Day
immediately preceding any Remarketing Settlement Date; provided that Holders of
Stripped Common Equity Units may only recreate Normal Common Equity Units in
integral multiples of 80 Stripped Common Equity Units. To recreate Normal Common
Equity Units, the Holder must:

            (1)   if the substitution is made prior to the Initial Stock
                  Purchase Date, transfer to the Securities Intermediary Series
                  A Trust Preferred Securities having an aggregate liquidation
                  amount equal to the aggregate principal amount at stated
                  maturity of the corresponding Pledged Treasury Securities
                  comprising part of the Stripped Common Equity Units;

            (2)   transfer to the Securities Intermediary Series B Trust
                  Preferred Securities having an aggregate liquidation amount
                  equal to the aggregate principal amount at stated maturity of
                  the corresponding Pledged Treasury Securities comprising part
                  of the Stripped Common Equity Units; and

            (3)   transfer the related Stripped Common Equity Units to the Stock
                  Purchase Contract Agent accompanied by a notice to the Stock
                  Purchase Contract Agent, substantially in the form of Exhibit
                  C hereto, (i) stating that the Holder has transferred the
                  relevant amount of Series A Trust Preferred Securities (if the
                  substitution is made prior to the Initial Stock Purchase Date)
                  and Series B Trust Preferred Securities to the Securities
                  Intermediary for deposit in the Collateral Account and (ii)
                  instructing the Stock Purchase Contract Agent to instruct the
                  Collateral Agent to release the Pledged Treasury Securities
                  underlying such Stripped Common Equity Units, whereupon the
                  Stock Purchase Contract Agent shall promptly provide an
                  instruction to such effect to the Collateral Agent,
                  substantially in the form of Exhibit C to the Pledge
                  Agreement.

Upon receipt of the Trust Preferred Securities described in clauses (1) and (2)
above and the instruction described in clause (3) above, in accordance with the
terms of the Pledge Agreement,

                                       31

the Collateral Agent will cause the Securities Intermediary to effect the
release of the Pledged Treasury Securities having a corresponding aggregate
principal amount at maturity from the Pledge and the transfer thereof to the
Stock Purchase Contract Agent on behalf of the Holder free and clear of the
Company's security interest therein. Upon receipt of such Treasury Securities,
the Stock Purchase Contract Agent shall promptly:

            (i) cancel the related Stripped Common Equity Units;

            (ii) transfer the Treasury Securities to the Holder; and

            (iii) authenticate, execute on behalf of such Holder and deliver
      Normal Common Equity Units in book-entry form or, if applicable, in the
      form of a Normal Common Equity Unit Certificate executed by the Company in
      accordance with Section 3.03 evidencing the same number of Stock Purchase
      Contracts as were evidenced by the cancelled Stripped Common Equity Units.

      Holders who elect to recreate Normal Common Equity Units shall be
responsible for any fees or expenses (including, without limitation, fees and
expenses payable to the Collateral Agent for its services as Collateral Agent)
in respect of the recreation, and neither the Company nor the Stock Purchase
Contract Agent shall be responsible for any such fees or expenses.

      Except as provided in Section 5.02 or in this Section 3.14 or in
connection with a Cash Settlement, an Early Settlement, a Cash Merger Early
Settlement or a Termination Event, for so long as the Stock Purchase Contract
underlying a Stripped Common Equity Unit remains in effect, such Stripped Common
Equity Unit shall not be separable into its constituent parts and the rights and
obligations of the Holder of such Stripped Common Equity Unit in respect of the
1/80 of a Treasury Security and the Stock Purchase Contract comprising such
Stripped Common Equity Unit may be acquired, and may be transferred and
exchanged, only as a Stripped Common Equity Unit.

      Section 3.15 Transfer of Collateral upon Occurrence of Termination Event.

      Upon the occurrence of a Termination Event and the transfer to the Stock
Purchase Contract Agent of the Trust Preferred Securities or the Treasury
Securities, as the case may be, underlying the Normal Common Equity Units and
the Stripped Common Equity Units, as the case may be, pursuant to the terms of
the Pledge Agreement, the Stock Purchase Contract Agent shall request transfer
instructions with respect to such Trust Preferred Securities or Treasury
Securities, as the case may be, from each Holder by written request,
substantially in the form of Exhibit D hereto, mailed to such Holder at its
address as it appears in the Security Register.

      Upon book-entry transfer of the Normal Common Equity Units or the Stripped
Common Equity Units or delivery of a Normal Common Equity Unit Certificate or
Stripped Common Equity Unit Certificate to the Stock Purchase Contract Agent
with such transfer instructions, the Stock Purchase Contract Agent shall
transfer the Trust Preferred Securities or Treasury Securities, as the case may
be, underlying such Normal Common Equity Units or Stripped Common Equity Units,
as the case may be, to such Holder by book-entry transfer, or other appropriate
procedures, in accordance with such instructions. In the event a Holder of
Normal Common Equity Units or Stripped Common Equity Units fails to effect such
transfer or delivery,

                                       32

the Trust Preferred Securities or Treasury Securities, as the case may be,
underlying such Normal Common Equity Units or Stripped Common Equity Units, as
the case may be, and any distributions thereon, shall be held in the name of the
Stock Purchase Contract Agent or its nominee in trust for the benefit of such
Holder, until the earlier to occur of:

            (i) the transfer of such Normal Common Equity Units or Stripped
      Common Equity Units or surrender of the Normal Common Equity Unit
      Certificate or Stripped Common Equity Unit Certificate or the receipt by
      the Company and the Stock Purchase Contract Agent from such Holder of
      satisfactory evidence that such Normal Common Equity Unit Certificate or
      Stripped Common Equity Unit Certificate has been destroyed, lost or
      stolen, together with any indemnity that may be required by the Stock
      Purchase Contract Agent and the Company; and

            (ii) the expiration of the time period specified in the abandoned
      property laws of the relevant State in which the Stock Purchase Contract
      Agent holds such property.

      Section 3.16 No Consent to Assumption.

      Each Holder of a Common Equity Unit, by acceptance thereof, shall be
deemed expressly to have withheld any consent to the assumption under Section
365 of the Bankruptcy Code or otherwise, of the Stock Purchase Contract by the
Company or its trustee, receiver, liquidator or a person or entity performing
similar functions in the event that the Company becomes the debtor under the
Bankruptcy Code or subject to other similar state or Federal law providing for
reorganization or liquidation.

                                   ARTICLE IV

                         THE TRUST PREFERRED SECURITIES

      Section 4.01 Distributions; Rights to Distributions Preserved.

      Any payment on any Trust Preferred Security which is paid on any Payment
Date shall, subject to receipt thereof by the Stock Purchase Contract Agent from
the Company (in the case of a Trust Preferred Security that is held in the name
of the Stock Purchase Contract Agent) or from the Collateral Agent as provided
by the terms of the Pledge Agreement (in the case of a Trust Preferred Security
that is held in the name of the Collateral Agent), be paid by the Stock Purchase
Contract Agent to the Person in whose name the Normal Common Equity Unit
Certificate (or one or more Predecessor Normal Common Equity Unit Certificates)
of which such Trust Preferred Securities form a part is registered at the close
of business on the Record Date for such Payment Date.

      Each Normal Common Equity Unit Certificate evidencing the ownership
interest in the underlying Trust Preferred Securities delivered under this
Agreement upon registration of transfer of or in exchange for or in lieu of any
other Normal Common Equity Unit Certificate shall carry the right to accrued and
unpaid interest or distributions, and to accrue distributions, which were
carried by the Trust Preferred Securities underlying such other Normal Common
Equity Unit Certificate.

                                       33

In the case of any Normal Common Equity Units with respect to which (A) a
Cash Settlement of the underlying Stock Purchase Contract is properly effected
pursuant to Section 5.02(b) or Section 5.02(e) hereof, (B) an Early Settlement
of the underlying Stock Purchase Contract is properly effected pursuant to
Section 5.07 hereof, (C) a Cash Merger Early Settlement of the underlying Stock
Purchase Contract is properly effected pursuant to Section 5.04(b)(ii) hereof,
(D) a Collateral Substitution is properly effected pursuant to Section 3.13, or
(E) a Successful Remarketing occurs with respect to the Trust Preferred
Securities that are part of such Normal Common Equity Units, in each case on a
date that is after any Record Date and prior to or on the next succeeding
Payment Date, distributions on the Trust Preferred Securities underlying such
Normal Common Equity Units otherwise payable on such Payment Date shall be
payable on such Payment Date notwithstanding such Cash Settlement, Early
Settlement, Cash Merger Early Settlement, Collateral Substitution or Successful
Remarketing, and such payment or distributions shall, subject to receipt thereof
by the Stock Purchase Contract Agent, be payable to the Person in whose name the
Normal Common Equity Unit Certificate (or one or more Predecessor Normal Common
Equity Unit Certificates) was registered at the close of business on the Record
Date.

      Except as otherwise expressly provided in the immediately preceding
paragraph, in the case of any Normal Common Equity Units with respect to which
Cash Settlement, Early Settlement or Cash Merger Early Settlement of the
underlying Stock Purchase Contract is properly effected, or with respect to
which a Collateral Substitution has been effected, payments on the related Trust
Preferred Securities that would otherwise be payable or made after the Initial
Stock Purchase Date (for the Series A Trust Preferred Securities), the
Subsequent Stock Purchase Date (for the Series B Trust Preferred Securities),
Early Settlement Date, Cash Merger Early Settlement Date or the date of the
Collateral Substitution, as the case may be, shall not be payable hereunder to
the Holder of such Normal Common Equity Units; provided, however, that to the
extent that such Holder continues to hold Separate Trust Preferred Securities
that formerly comprised a part of such Holder's Normal Common Equity Units, such
Holder shall be entitled to receive distributions on such Separate Trust
Preferred Securities.

      Section 4.02 Notice and Voting.

      Under the terms of the Pledge Agreement, the Stock Purchase Contract Agent
will be entitled to exercise the voting and any other consensual rights
pertaining to the Pledged Trust Preferred Securities, but only to the extent
instructed in writing by the Holders as described below. Upon receipt of notice
of any meeting at which holders of any series of Trust Preferred Securities are
entitled to vote or upon any solicitation of consents, waivers or proxies of
holders of any series of Trust Preferred Securities, the Stock Purchase Contract
Agent shall, as soon as practicable thereafter, mail, first class, postage
pre-paid, to the Holders of Normal Common Equity Units a notice:

            (i) containing such information as is contained in the notice or
      solicitation;

            (ii) stating that each Holder on the record date set by the Stock
      Purchase Contract Agent therefor (which, to the extent possible, shall be
      the same date as the record date for determining the holders of the
      applicable series of Trust Preferred Securities, as the case may be,
      entitled to vote) shall be entitled to instruct the Stock

                                       34

Purchase Contract Agent as to the exercise of the voting rights pertaining
      to such Trust Preferred Securities underlying their Normal Common Equity
      Units; and

            (iii) stating the manner in which such instructions may be given.

      Upon the written request of the Holders of Normal Common Equity Units on
such record date received by the Stock Purchase Contract Agent at least six days
prior to such meeting, the Stock Purchase Contract Agent shall endeavor insofar
as practicable to vote or cause to be voted, in accordance with the instructions
set forth in such requests, the maximum number of Trust Preferred Securities, as
the case may be, as to which any particular voting instructions are received. In
the absence of specific instructions from the Holder of a Normal Common Equity
Unit, the Stock Purchase Contract Agent shall abstain from voting the Trust
Preferred Securities underlying such Normal Common Equity Unit. The Company
hereby agrees, if applicable, to solicit Holders of Normal Common Equity Units
to timely instruct the Stock Purchase Contract Agent in order to enable the
Stock Purchase Contract Agent to vote such Trust Preferred Securities.

      The Holders of Normal Common Equity Units and Stripped Common Equity Units
shall have no voting or other rights in respect of Common Stock.

                                   ARTICLE V

                             THE PURCHASE CONTRACTS

      Section 5.01 Purchase of Shares of Common Stock.

      (a) Each Stock Purchase Contract shall obligate the Holder of the related
Common Equity Unit to purchase, and the Company to sell, on each of the Initial
Stock Purchase Date and the Subsequent Stock Purchase Date at a price equal to
$12.50 (the "Purchase Price"), a number of newly issued or treasury shares of
Common Stock per Common Equity Unit (subject to Section 5.09) equal to the
applicable Settlement Rate (as defined below) unless an Early Settlement, a Cash
Merger Early Settlement or a Termination Event with respect to the Common Equity
Units of which such Stock Purchase Contract is a part shall have occurred. The
"Settlement Rate" with respect to each Stock Purchase Contract, shall be an
amount equal to the sum of the "Daily Amounts" (as defined below) calculated for
each Determination Date during the Trading Day Period. The "Daily Amount" for
each Determination Date in the Trading Day Period, subject to any then
applicable anti-dilution adjustments, is defined as:

            (i) for each Determination Date on which the Closing Price (as
      defined below) for the Common Stock is less than or equal to the Reference
      Price, a fraction of one share of Common Stock per Common Equity Unit
      equal to:

      1/20 times $12.50 divided by the Reference Price (the "Maximum Daily
                               Settlement Rate"),

            (ii) for each Determination Date on which the Closing Price for the
      Common Stock is greater than the Reference Price but less than the
      Threshold Appreciation Price, a fraction of one share of Common Stock per
      Common Equity Unit equal to:

                                       35

1/20 times $12.50 divided by the Closing Price, and

            (iii) for each Determination Date on which the Closing Price for the
      Common Stock is greater than or equal to the Threshold Appreciation Price,
      a fraction of one share of Common Stock per Common Equity Unit equal to:

1/20 times $12.50 divided by the Threshold Appreciation Price (the "Minimum
Daily Settlement Rate" and, together with the Maximum Daily Settlement Rate, the
"Fixed Daily Settlement Rates"),

in each case subject to adjustment as provided in Section 5.04 (and in each case
rounded upward or downward to the nearest 1/10,000th of a share).

      The Company shall give notice to the Holders if a Market Disruption Event
occurs during a day that would otherwise constitute one of the 20 Trading Days
in the Trading Day Period for determining the Daily Amounts.

      If the 20 Trading Days in the Trading Day Period have not occurred prior
to the third Business Day immediately prior to the applicable Stock Purchase
Date, all remaining Trading Days in the Trading Day Period will be determined to
occur on that third Business Day and the Closing Price for each of the remaining
Trading Days in the Trading Day Period will be the Closing Price per share of
the Common Stock on such third Business Day or if such Business Day is not a
Trading Day, the Closing Price as determined in its reasonable discretion by a
nationally recognized independent investment banking firm retained by the
Company for this purpose.

      The "Closing Price" of the Common Stock on any Determination Date means:

            (i) the closing sale price as of the close of the principal trading
      session (or, if no closing price is reported, the last reported sale
      price) on the New York Stock Exchange, Inc. (the "NYSE") on that date; or

            (ii) if the Common Stock is not listed for trading on the NYSE on
      any such date, the closing sale price (or, if no closing price is
      reported, the last reported sale price) per share as reported in the
      composite transactions for the principal United States national or
      regional securities exchange on which the Common Stock is so listed; or

            (iii) if the Common Stock is not so listed on a United States
      national or regional securities exchange, the last closing sale price per
      share as reported by the Nasdaq Stock Market; or

            (iv) if the Common Stock is not so reported by the Nasdaq Stock
      Market, the last quoted bid price for the Common Stock in the
      over-the-counter market as reported by PinkSheets LLC (formerly known as
      the National Quotation Bureau) or similar organization; or

            (v) if the bid price referred to in clause (iv) is not available,
      the market value of the Common Stock on such date as determined by a
      nationally recognized independent

                                       36

investment banking firm retained by the Company for purposes of
      determining the Closing Price.

      "Determination Date" means any Trading Day in the Trading Day Period on
which a portion of the Common Stock deliverable in respect of the applicable
Stock Purchase Contract is determined herein.

      A "Market Disruption Event" means any of the following events that the
Company, in its reasonable discretion, determines has occurred and is material:

            (i) any suspension of, or limitation imposed on, trading by any
      exchange or quotation system on which the closing price is determined
      pursuant to the definition of the Trading Day (a "Relevant Exchange")
      during the one-hour period prior to the close of trading for the regular
      trading session on the Relevant Exchange and whether by reason of
      movements in price exceeding limits permitted by the Relevant Exchange, or
      otherwise:

            (1)   relating to Common Stock; or

            (2)   in futures or options contracts relating to the Common Stock
                  on the Relevant Exchange;

            (ii) any event (other than an event described in clause (iii)) that
      disrupts or impairs (as determined by the Company in its reasonable
      discretion) the ability of market participants during the one-hour period
      prior to the close of trading for the regular trading session on the
      Relevant Exchange in general:

            (1)   to effect transactions in, or obtain market values for, the
                  Common Stock on the Relevant Exchange; or

            (2)   to effect transactions in, or obtain market values for,
                  futures or options contracts relating to the Common Stock on
                  the Relevant Exchange; or

            (iii) the failure to open of the Relevant Exchange on which futures
      or options contracts relating to the Common Stock, are traded or the
      closure of such exchange prior to its respective scheduled closing time
      for the regular trading session on such day (without regard to after hours
      or any other trading outside of the regular trading session hours) unless
      such earlier closing time is announced by such exchange at least one hour
      prior to the earlier of:

            (1)   the actual closing time for the regular trading session on
                  such day, and

            (2)   the submission deadline for orders to be entered into such
                  exchange for execution at the actual closing time on such day.

      A "Trading Day" means a Business Day on which the Relevant Exchange is
scheduled to be open for business and on which there has not occurred or does
not exist a Market Disruption Event.

                                       37

"Trading Day Period" means the 20 consecutive Trading Days beginning on
July 9, 2008 for the Initial Stock Purchase Date, and the 20 consecutive Trading
Days beginning on January 7, 2009 for the Subsequent Stock Purchase Date.

      (b) Each Holder of a Normal Common Equity Unit or a Stripped Common Equity
Unit, by its acceptance of such Common Equity Unit will be deemed to have:

            (i) duly appointed the Stock Purchase Contract Agent to enter into
      and perform the related Stock Purchase Contract and the Pledge Agreement
      on its behalf and in its name as its attorney-in-fact (including, without
      limitation, the execution of Certificates on behalf of such Holder);

            (ii) irrevocably agreed to be bound by the terms and provisions of
      such Stock Purchase Contract and the Pledge Agreement;

            (iii) covenanted and agreed to perform its obligations under such
      Stock Purchase Contract for so long as such Holder remains a Holder of a
      Normal Common Equity Unit or a Stripped Common Equity Unit;

            (iv) irrevocably authorized the Stock Purchase Contract Agent to
      enter into and perform this Agreement and the Pledge Agreement on its
      behalf and in its name as its attorney-in-fact;

            (v) consents to, and agrees to be bound by, the Pledge of such
      Holder's right, title and interest in and to the Collateral Account,
      including the Trust Preferred Securities and the Treasury Securities
      pursuant to the Pledge Agreement;

            (vi) for United States federal, state and local income and franchise
      tax purposes, agrees to take the positions set forth in Section 10.07(b);

            (vii) irrevocably directed the Stock Purchase Contract Agent to
      execute the Remarketing Agreement at the direction of the Company, without
      the receipt of any opinion or certificate,

provided that upon a Termination Event, the rights of the Holder of such Common
Equity Units under the Stock Purchase Contract may be enforced without regard to
any other rights or obligations.

      (c) Each Holder of a Normal Common Equity Unit or a Stripped Common Equity
Unit, by its acceptance thereof, shall be deemed to have further covenanted and
agreed that to the extent and in the manner provided in Section 5.02 hereof and
the provisions of the Pledge Agreement, but subject to the terms thereof,
Proceeds of the Trust Preferred Securities or the Treasury Securities, as
applicable, on the Stock Purchase Date, shall be paid by the Collateral Agent to
the Company in satisfaction of such Holder's obligations under such Stock
Purchase Contract and such Holder shall acquire no right, title or interest in
such Proceeds except that any proceeds of the Remarketing in excess of the
aggregate Purchase Price applicable to the related Normal Common Equity Units
plus the portion of the Remarketing Fee attributable to such

                                       38

Pledged Trust Preferred Securities will be remitted to the Stock Purchase
Contract Agent for payment to the Holders of the related Normal Common Equity
Units.

      (d) Upon registration of transfer of a Certificate, the transferee shall
be bound (without the necessity of any other action on the part of such
transferee) by the terms of this Agreement, the Stock Purchase Contracts
underlying such Certificate and the Pledge Agreement and the transferor shall be
released from the obligations under this Agreement, the Stock Purchase Contracts
underlying the Certificate so transferred and the Pledge Agreement. The Company
covenants and agrees, and each Holder of a Certificate, by its acceptance
thereof, likewise shall be deemed to have covenanted and agreed, to be bound by
the provisions of this paragraph.

      Section 5.02 Remarketing; Payment of Purchase Price.

      (a) (i) The Company shall conduct a Remarketing of each series of Trust
Preferred Securities in accordance with Article X of the relevant Trust
Agreement and the Remarketing Agreement.

            (ii) With respect to any Trust Preferred Securities which constitute
      part of Normal Common Equity Units which are subject to the Remarketing
      with respect to the Third Remarketing Settlement Date for each series of
      the Trust Preferred Securities, the Collateral Agent for the benefit of
      the Company reserves all of its rights as a secured party with respect
      thereto and, subject to applicable law and Section 5.02(c) below, may,
      among other things, (A) retain such Trust Preferred Securities in full
      satisfaction of the Holders' obligations under the Stock Purchase
      Contracts or (B) sell such Trust Preferred Securities in one or more
      public or private sales or otherwise.

            (iii) Prior to 5:00 p.m. (New York City time) on the fifth Business
      Day immediately preceding the applicable Remarketing Date Holders of
      Separate Trust Preferred Securities may elect to have their Separate Trust
      Preferred Securities remarketed under the Remarketing Agreement by
      delivering their Separate Trust Preferred Securities, along with a notice
      of such election, substantially in the form of Exhibit F to the Pledge
      Agreement, to the Custodial Agent. The Custodial Agent shall hold Separate
      Trust Preferred Securities in an account separate from the Collateral
      Account in which the Pledged Trust Preferred Securities (as defined in the
      Pledge Agreement) shall be held. Holders of Separate Trust Preferred
      Securities electing to have their Separate Trust Preferred Securities
      remarketed will also have the right to withdraw that election by written
      notice to the Custodial Agent, substantially in the form of Exhibit G to
      the Pledge Agreement, by 5:00 p.m. (New York City time) on the fifth
      Business Day immediately preceding the applicable Remarketing Date, upon
      which notice the Custodial Agent shall return such Separate Trust
      Preferred Securities to such Holder. Promptly after 11:00 a.m. on the
      Business Day immediately preceding the applicable Remarketing Date, the
      Custodial Agent shall notify the Remarketing Agent of the aggregate
      liquidation amount of the Separate Trust Preferred Securities to be
      remarketed. After such time, such election shall become an irrevocable
      election to have such Separate Trust Preferred Securities remarketed in
      such Remarketing.

                                       39

(iv) The Stock Purchase Contract Agent shall give Holders of Common
      Equity Units, and the Company shall request that the Depositary or its
      nominee give Depositary Participants holding Common Equity Units and
      Separate Trust Preferred Securities, notice of a Remarketing at least 21
      Business Days prior to the related Remarketing Date. Such notice will set
      forth the information required to be set forth in the notice pursuant to
      Section 10.4(a) of the relevant Trust Agreement.

      (b) (i) Unless an Early Settlement or a Cash Merger Early Settlement has
occurred prior to the applicable Stock Purchase Date, each Holder of Normal
Common Equity Units shall have the right to satisfy such Holder's obligations
under the Stock Purchase Contract on such Stock Purchase Date in cash by
notifying the Stock Purchase Contract Agent by use of a notice in substantially
the form of Exhibit E hereto of its intention to pay in cash ("Cash Settlement")
by 5:00 p.m. (New York City time) on the fifth Business Day immediately
preceding the applicable Stock Purchase Date. Promptly following 5:00 p.m. (New
York City time) on the fifth Business Day immediately preceding the applicable
Stock Purchase Date, the Stock Purchase Contract Agent shall notify the
Collateral Agent of the receipt of such notices from Holders intending to make a
Cash Settlement by use of a notice in substantially the form of Exhibit F
hereto.

            (ii) A Holder of a Normal Common Equity Unit who has so notified the
      Stock Purchase Contract Agent of its intention to effect a Cash Settlement
      shall pay the Purchase Price to the Collateral Agent for deposit in the
      Collateral Account by 5:00 p.m. (New York City time) on the fourth
      Business Day immediately preceding the applicable Stock Purchase Date, in
      lawful money of the United States by certified or cashiers' check or wire
      transfer of immediately available funds payable to or upon the order of
      the Securities Intermediary. Any cash so received shall be paid to the
      Company on the applicable Stock Purchase Date in partial settlement, in
      the case of the Initial Stock Purchase Date, and full settlement, in the
      case of the Subsequent Stock Purchase Date, of the Stock Purchase
      Contracts in accordance with the terms of this Agreement and the Pledge
      Agreement.

            (iii) If a Holder of a Normal Common Equity Unit does not notify the
      Stock Purchase Contract Agent of its intention to make a Cash Settlement
      in accordance with Section 5.02(b)(ii) above, or does notify the Stock
      Purchase Contract Agent in accordance with Section 5.02(b)(i) above but
      fails to make such payment as required by Section 5.02(b)(ii) above, such
      Holder shall be deemed to have consented to the disposition of the Pledged
      Trust Preferred Securities pursuant to the next applicable Remarketing.

            (iv) As soon as practicable after 5:00 p.m. (New York City time) on
      the fourth Business Day preceding the applicable Stock Purchase Date, the
      Collateral Agent, based on cash payments received by the Collateral Agent
      pursuant to Section 5.02(b)(ii) hereof, shall promptly notify the Stock
      Purchase Contract Agent of the aggregate liquidation amount of Trust
      Preferred Securities to be tendered for purchase in the Remarketing in a
      notice pursuant to the terms of the Pledge Agreement.

                                       40

(v) In the event of a Failed Remarketing in respect of the Series A
      Trust Preferred Securities, (A) the Initial Stock Purchase Date shall be
      deferred for a quarterly period (except in the case of a Failed
      Remarketing with respect to the Third Remarketing Settlement Date for the
      Series A Trust Preferred Securities, in which case the Stock Purchase Date
      shall occur on the Third Remarketing Settlement Date for the Series A
      Trust Preferred Securities), and (B) if the Holders of Common Equity Units
      have delivered cash in order to effect Cash Settlement in accordance with
      Section 5.02(b)(ii) above, the Collateral Agent will promptly return the
      cash that it has received with respect to the Cash Settlement to the Stock
      Purchase Contract Agent for distribution to the applicable Holders of
      Normal Common Equity Units.

            (vi) In the event of a Failed Remarketing in respect of the Series B
      Trust Preferred Securities, (A) the Subsequent Stock Purchase Date shall
      be deferred for a quarterly period (except in the case of a Failed
      Remarketing with respect to the Third Remarketing Settlement Date for the
      Series B Trust Preferred Securities, in which case the Stock Purchase Date
      shall occur on the Third Remarketing Settlement Date for the Series B
      Trust Preferred Securities), and (B) if the Holders of Common Equity Units
      have delivered cash in order to effect Cash Settlement in accordance with
      Section 5.02(b)(ii) above, the Collateral Agent will promptly return the
      cash that it has received with respect to the Cash Settlement to the Stock
      Purchase Contract Agent for distribution to the applicable Holders of
      Normal Common Equity Units.

            (vii) In the event of a Successful Remarketing, if the Holders of
      Common Equity Units have delivered cash in order to effect Cash
      Settlement, the Collateral Agent will cause (i) the Securities
      Intermediary to effect the release from the Pledge such Holders related of
      Pledged Trust Preferred Securities of the series subject to the Successful
      Remarketing as to which such Holders have effected a Cash Settlement and
      (ii) the transfer of such Trust Preferred Securities to the Stock Purchase
      Contract Agent on behalf of the Holders free and clear of the Company's
      security interest therein. Upon receipt of such Trust Preferred
      Securities, the Stock Purchase Contract Agent shall promptly transfer the
      Trust Preferred Securities to the Holders.

      (c) The obligations of the Holders to pay the Purchase Price are
non-recourse obligations and, except to the extent satisfied by Early
Settlement, Cash Merger Early Settlement or Cash Settlement, are payable solely
out of the Proceeds of any Collateral pledged to secure the obligations of the
Holders, and in no event will Holders be liable for any deficiency between the
Proceeds of the disposition of Collateral and the Purchase Price.

      (d) The Company shall not be obligated to issue any shares of Common Stock
in respect of a Stock Purchase Contract or deliver any certificates thereof to
the Holder of the related Common Equity Units unless the Company shall have
received payment for the Common Stock to be purchased thereunder in the manner
herein set forth.

      Section 5.03 Issuance of Shares of Common Stock.

      Unless a Termination Event, an Early Settlement or a Cash Merger Early
Settlement shall have occurred, subject to Section 5.04(b)(ii), on the
applicable Stock Purchase Date upon receipt

                                       41

of the aggregate Purchase Price payable on all Outstanding Common Equity Units,
the Company shall issue and deposit with the Stock Purchase Contract Agent, for
the benefit of the Holders of the Outstanding Common Equity Units, by book entry
transfer or in the form of one or more certificates representing newly issued or
treasury shares of Common Stock registered in the name of the Stock Purchase
Contract Agent (or its nominee) as custodian for the Holders (such certificates
for shares of Common Stock, together with any dividends or distributions for
which a record date and payment date for such dividend or distribution has
occurred after the Stock Purchase Date, being hereinafter referred to as the
"Stock Purchase Contract Settlement Fund") to which the Holders are entitled
hereunder.

      Subject to the foregoing, upon surrender of a Certificate to the Stock
Purchase Contract Agent on or after the Initial Stock Purchase Date, the
Subsequent Stock Purchase Date, the Early Settlement Date or the Cash Merger
Early Settlement Date, as the case may be, together with settlement instructions
thereon duly completed and executed, the Holder of such Certificate shall be
entitled to receive forthwith in exchange therefor, by book entry transfer or in
the form of a certificate, that whole number of newly issued or treasury shares
of Common Stock which such Holder is entitled to receive pursuant to the
provisions of this Article V (after taking into account all Common Equity Units
then held by such Holder), together with cash in lieu of fractional shares as
provided in Section 5.09 and any dividends or distributions with respect to such
shares constituting part of the Stock Purchase Contract Settlement Fund, but
without any interest thereon, and the Certificate so surrendered shall forthwith
be cancelled. Such shares shall be registered in the name of the Holder or the
Holder's designee as specified in the settlement instructions provided by the
Holder to the Stock Purchase Contract Agent. If any shares of Common Stock
issued in respect of a Stock Purchase Contract are to be registered to a Person
other than the Person in whose name the Certificate evidencing a Common Equity
Unit of which such Stock Purchase Contract forms a part is registered (but
excluding any Depositary or nominee thereof), no such registration shall be made
unless the Person requesting such registration has paid any transfer and other
taxes required by reason of such registration in a name other than that of the
registered Holder of the Certificate evidencing such Stock Purchase Contract or
has established to the satisfaction of the Company that such tax either has been
paid or is not payable.

      Section 5.04 Adjustment of Fixed Daily Settlement Rates.

      The Fixed Daily Settlement Rates and the number of shares of Common Stock
to be delivered upon an Early Settlement will be subject to adjustment, without
duplication, under the following circumstances:

      (a) Adjustments for Dividends, Distributions, Stock Splits, etc.

            (i) Adjustment for Change in Capital Stock. If, after the date of
      this Agreement, the Company: (A) pays a dividend or makes another
      distribution on Common Stock to all holders of Common Stock payable
      exclusively in shares of Common Stock; (B) subdivides or splits the
      outstanding shares of Common Stock into a greater number of shares; or (C)
      combines the outstanding shares of Common Stock into a smaller number of
      shares, then the Fixed Daily Settlement Rates in effect immediately prior
      to such action shall be adjusted so that the Holder of the related Common
      Equity Units thereafter

                                       42

settled may receive the number of shares of Common Stock which such Holder
      would have owned immediately following such action if such Holder had
      settled the Stock Purchase Contract immediately prior to such action.

                  The adjustment shall become effective immediately after the
      record date in the case of a dividend, distribution or subdivision and
      immediately after the effective date in the case of a combination.

            (ii) Adjustment for Rights Issue. If, after the date of this Stock
      Purchase Contract Agreement, the Company distributes any rights, options
      or warrants, other than pursuant to any dividend reinvestment, share
      purchase or similar plans, to all holders of the Company's Common Stock
      entitling them to purchase or subscribe for, for a period expiring within
      60 days from the date of issuance of the rights or warrants, shares of
      Common Stock at a price per share less than the Current Market Price as of
      the Time of Determination (as defined in Section 5.04(a) below) (except
      that no adjustment will be made if Holders of the Common Equity Units may
      participate in the distribution on a basis and with the notice that the
      Company's Board of Directors determines to be fair and appropriate), the
      Fixed Daily Settlement Rates shall be adjusted by multiplying them by a
      fraction:

                  (A) the numerator of which is the sum of (1) the number of
            shares of Common Stock outstanding on the record date fixed for the
            applicable distribution plus (2) the total number of additional
            shares of Common Stock offered for subscription or purchase, and

                  (B) the denominator of which is the sum of (1) the number of
            shares of Common Stock outstanding on the record date fixed for the
            distribution plus (2) the total number of shares of Common Stock
            that the aggregate offering price of the total number of shares
            offered for subscription or purchase would purchase at the Current
            Market Price.

            The adjustment shall become effective immediately after the record
      date for the determination of stockholders entitled to receive the rights,
      warrants or options to which this Section 5.04(b)(ii) applies. To the
      extent that such rights or warrants are not exercised prior to their
      expiration (and as a result no additional shares of Common Stock are
      delivered or issued pursuant to such rights or warrants), the Fixed Daily
      Settlement Rates shall be readjusted to the Fixed Daily Settlement Rates
      that would then be in effect had the adjustments made upon the issuance of
      such rights or warrants been made on the basis of delivery or issuance of
      only the number of shares of Common Stock actually delivered or issued.

            (iii) Adjustments for Other Distributions. If, after the date of
      this Agreement, the Company dividends or distributes to all or
      substantially all holders of its Common Stock any of its debt, Capital
      Stock, securities or assets or any rights, warrants or options to purchase
      securities of the Company (including securities or cash, but excluding (1)
      distributions of Common Stock referred to in Section 5.04(a)(i)(A) and
      distributions of rights, warrants or options referred to in Section
      5.04(a)(ii) and (2) dividends or

                                       43

distributions that are paid exclusively in cash referred to in Section
      5.04(a)(iv)) the Fixed Daily Settlement Rates shall be adjusted, subject
      to the provisions of the last paragraph of this Section 5.04(a)(iii), by
      multiplying them by a fraction:

                  (A) the numerator of which is the Current Market Price of
            Common Stock, and

                  (B) the denominator of which is the Current Market Price of
            Common Stock minus the fair market value of the portion of those
            assets distributed in respect of each share of Common Stock.

            In the event the Company distributes shares of Capital Stock of a
      subsidiary, the share components will be adjusted, if at all, based on the
      market value of the subsidiary stock so distributed relative to the market
      value of the Common Stock, as discussed below. The Board of Directors
      shall determine fair market values for the purposes of this Section
      5.05(a)(iii), except that in respect of a dividend or other distribution
      of shares of Capital Stock of any class or series, or similar equity
      interests, of or relating to a subsidiary or other business unit of the
      Company (a "Spin-off"), the fair market value of the securities to be
      distributed shall equal the average of the daily Closing Prices of those
      securities for the five consecutive Trading Days commencing on and
      including the sixth day of trading of those securities after the
      effectiveness of the Spin-off. In the event, however, that an underwritten
      initial public offering of the securities in the Spin-off occurs
      simultaneously with the Spin-off, fair market value of the securities
      distributed in the Spin-off shall mean the initial public offering price
      of such securities and the Current Market Price shall mean the Closing
      Price for the Common Stock on the same Trading Day.

            The adjustment shall become effective immediately after the record
      date for the determination of stockholders entitled to receive the
      distribution to which this Section 5.04(a)(iii) applies, except that an
      adjustment related to a Spin-off shall become effective at the earlier to
      occur of (i) 10 Trading Days after the effective date of the Spin-off and
      (ii) the initial public offering of the securities distributed in the
      Spin-off.

            (iv) Cash Dividends and Distributions. In case the Company shall, by
      dividend or otherwise, pay regular quarterly, semi-annual or annual cash
      dividends or make any other distributions consisting exclusively of cash
      to all holders of its Common Stock, excluding any regular cash dividend or
      distribution on the Common Stock to the extent that the aggregate cash
      dividend or distribution per share of Common Stock in any fiscal year does
      not exceed $0.46 (the "Dividend Threshold Amount") (the Dividend Threshold
      Amount is subject to adjustment on the same basis as the Daily Amounts for
      any adjustment made pursuant to Section 5.04(a)(i)), then the Fixed Daily
      Settlement Rates will be adjusted as follows:

                  (A) in the event of a regular dividend to which this Section
            5.04(a)(iv) applies, the Fixed Daily Settlement Rates will be
            adjusted by multiplying them by a fraction, (1) the numerator of
            which is the Current Market Price of Common Stock, and (2) the
            denominator of which is the Current Market Price of Common

                                       44

Stock, minus the excess, if any, of the amount per share of such
            dividend or distribution over the Dividend Threshold Amount; and

                  (B) in the event of a cash dividend or distribution that is
            not a regular dividend, the Fixed Daily Settlement Rates will be
            adjusted by multiplying them by a fraction, (1) the numerator of
            which is the Current Market Price of Common Stock, and (2) the
            denominator of which is the Current Market Price of Common Stock
            minus the amount per share of such dividend or distribution.

      In either case, the adjustment shall be made on the date fixed for the
      determination of stockholders entitled to receive such dividend or
      distribution, to be effective at the opening of business on the day
      following the date fixed for the determination of stockholders entitled to
      receive such dividend or distribution. In the event that any such dividend
      or distribution is not so paid or made, each Fixed Daily Settlement Rate
      shall again be adjusted to be the Fixed Daily Settlement Rates that would
      then be in effect if such dividend or distribution had not been declared.

            (v) Adjustment for Company Tender Offer. If, after the date of this
      Agreement, the Company or any subsidiary of the Company pays holders of
      the Common Stock in respect of a tender or exchange offer, other than an
      odd-lot offer, by the Company or any of its subsidiaries for Common Stock
      to the extent that the offer involves aggregate consideration that,
      together with (A) any cash and the fair market value of any other
      consideration payable in respect of any tender offer (other than an
      odd-lot offer) by the Company or any of its subsidiaries for shares of
      Common Stock consummated within the preceding 12 months not triggering a
      Settlement Rate adjustment and (B) all-cash distributions to all or
      substantially all holders of Common Stock made within the preceding 12
      months (other than regular quarterly, semi-annual or annual cash
      dividends), exceeds an amount equal to 10% of the aggregate market
      capitalization of the Company on the expiration date of the tender offer,
      the share components will be adjusted by multiplying them by a fraction,

                  (A) the numerator of which is the sum of (1) the fair market
            value, as determined by the Board of Directors, of the aggregate
            consideration payable based upon the acceptance (up to any maximum
            specified in the terms of the tender or exchange offer) of all
            shares of Common Stock validly tendered or exchanged and not
            withdrawn as of the last time tenders or exchanges may be made
            pursuant to such tender or exchange offer (the "Expiration Time")
            (the shares deemed so accepted, up to any such maximum, being
            referred to as the "Purchased Shares") and (2) the product of (x)
            the number of shares of Common Stock outstanding (less any Purchased
            Shares) at the Expiration Time and (y) the closing price of Common
            Stock on the Trading Day next succeeding the Expiration Time, and

                  (B) the denominator of which will be the product of (1) the
            number of shares of Common Stock outstanding, including any
            Purchased Shares, at the Expiration Time and (2) the Closing Price
            of Common Stock on the Trading Day next succeeding the Expiration
            Time.

                                       45

(vi) Calculation of Adjustments. All adjustments to the Fixed Daily
      Settlement Rates shall be calculated by the Company to the nearest
      1/10,000th of one share of Common Stock (or if there is not a nearest
      1/10,000th of a share, to the next lower 1/10,000th of a share). No
      adjustment to the Settlement Rate shall be required unless such adjustment
      would require an increase or a decrease of at least one percent; provided
      that any adjustments not made shall be carried forward and taken into
      account in any subsequent adjustment and notwithstanding whether or not
      such 1/10,000th of a share threshold shall have been met, all such
      adjustments shall be made on the applicable Stock Purchase Date. If an
      adjustment is made to the Settlement Rate pursuant to paragraph (i)
      through (v) or (vii) of this Section 5.04(a), an adjustment shall also be
      made to the Closing Price for the Company's Common Stock solely to
      determine which of clauses (i), (ii) or (iii) of the definition of Daily
      Amount in Section 5.01(a) will apply on each Determination Date. Such
      adjustment shall be made by multiplying the Closing Price for the
      Company's Common Stock by a fraction, the numerator of which shall be the
      applicable Fixed Daily Settlement Rate immediately after such adjustment
      pursuant to paragraph (i) through (v) or (vii) of this Section 5.04(a) and
      the denominator of which shall be the applicable Fixed Daily Settlement
      Rate immediately before such adjustment; provided that if such adjustment
      to the applicable Fixed Daily Settlement Rate is required to be made
      pursuant to the occurrence of any of the events contemplated by paragraph
      (i) through (v) or (vii) of this Section 5.04(a) during the period taken
      into consideration for determining the Daily Amounts, appropriate and
      customary adjustments shall be made to such Fixed Daily Settlement Rate.

            (vii) When No Adjustment Required. No adjustment of the Fixed Daily
      Settlement Rates, and the number of shares to be delivered on Early
      Settlement need be made as a result of: (1) the issuance of the rights;
      (2) the distribution of separate certificates representing the rights; (3)
      the exercise or redemption of the rights in accordance with any rights
      agreement; or (4) the termination or invalidation of the rights, in each
      case, pursuant to the Company's stockholder rights plan existing on the
      date of this Agreement, as amended, modified, or supplemented from time to
      time, or any newly adopted stockholder rights plans; provided, however,
      that to the extent that the Company has a stockholder rights plan in
      effect upon settlement of a Stock Purchase Contract (including the
      Company's rights plan existing on the date of this Agreement), the Holder
      shall receive, in addition to the shares of Common Stock, the rights under
      such rights plan, unless, prior to any settlement of a Stock Purchase
      Contract, the rights have separated from the Common Stock, in which case
      the applicable Fixed Daily Settlement Rate will be adjusted at the time of
      separation as if the Company made a distribution to all holders of Common
      Stock as described in clause (iii) above, subject to readjustment in the
      event of the expiration, termination or redemption of the rights. In
      addition, no adjustment to Fixed Daily Settlement Rates need be made:

                  (A) upon the issuance of any shares of Common Stock pursuant
            to any present or future plan providing for the reinvestment of
            dividends or interest payable on securities of the Company and the
            investment of additional optional amounts in Common Stock under any
            plan;

                                       46

(B) upon the issuance of any shares of Common Stock or options
            or rights to purchase those shares pursuant to any present or future
            employee, director or consultant benefit plan or program of or
            assumed by the Company or any of its subsidiaries; or

                  (C) upon the issuance of any shares of Common Stock pursuant
            to any option, warrant, right, or exercisable, exchangeable or
            convertible security outstanding as of the date the Common Equity
            Units were first issued.

            No adjustment to the Fixed Daily Settlement Rates need be made for a
      transaction referred to in 5.04(a)(ii) or 5.04(a)(iii) if Holders of the
      Common Equity Units may participate in the transaction on a basis and with
      notice that the Board of Directors determines to be fair and appropriate
      in light of the basis and notice on which holders of Common Stock
      participate in the transaction. No adjustment to the Fixed Daily
      Settlement Rates need be made for a change in the par value or no par
      value of the Common Stock.

            (viii) Use of Terms.

            "Time of Determination" means the time and date of the earlier of
      (A) the determination of stockholders entitled to receive rights, warrants
      or options or a distribution in each case, to which Section 5.04(a)(ii) or
      Section 5.04(a)(iii) applies and (B) the time ("Ex-Dividend Time")
      immediately prior to the commencement of "ex-dividend" trading for such
      rights, warrants or options or distribution on the NYSE or such other U.S.
      national or regional exchange or market on which the Common Stock are then
      listed or quoted.

            "Current Market Price" per share of Common Stock on any day means
      the average of the Closing Price per share of Common Stock on each
      Determination Date ending on the earlier of the day in question and the
      day before the "ex date" with respect to the issuance or distribution
      requiring such computation. For purposes of this paragraph, the term "ex
      date," when used with respect to any issuance or distribution, means the
      first date on which the shares of Common Stock trade without the right to
      receive the issuance or distribution.

            (ix) Adjustments During Trading Day Period. If an event requiring an
      adjustment occurs on any Determination Date during the Trading Day Period,
      the applicable Fixed Daily Settlement Rate calculated for each
      Determination Date before the event requiring an adjustment occurs will be
      adjusted in the same manner as the adjustment to the Fixed Daily
      Settlement Rates for each Determination Date on or after the event
      requiring an adjustment occurs pursuant to the procedures described above.

      (b) Adjustment for Consolidation, Merger or Other Reorganization Event. In
the event of (1) any consolidation or merger of the Company with or into another
Person (other than a merger or consolidation in which the Company is the
continuing corporation and in which the shares of Common Stock outstanding
immediately prior to the merger or consolidation are not exchanged for cash,
securities other property of the Company or another corporation), (2) any

                                       47

sale, transfer, lease or conveyance to another Person of the property of the
Company as an entirety or substantially as an entirety, (3) any statutory
exchange of securities of the Company with another Person (other than in
connection with a merger or acquisition) or any binding share exchange which
reclassifies or changes its outstanding Common Stock, or (4) any liquidation,
dissolution or winding up of the Company other than as a result of or after the
occurrence of a Termination Event (any such event, a "Reorganization Event"),

            (i) each share of Common Stock covered by each Stock Purchase
      Contract forming part of a Common Equity Unit immediately prior to such
      Reorganization Event shall, after such Reorganization Event, be converted
      for purposes of the Stock Purchase Contract into the kind and amount of
      securities, cash and other property receivable in such Reorganization
      Event (without any interest thereon, and without any right to dividends or
      distribution thereon which have a record date that is prior to the
      applicable Stock Purchase Date) per share of Common Stock by a holder of
      Common Stock that (A) is not a Person with which the Company consolidated
      or into which the Company merged or which merged into the Company or to
      which such sale or transfer was made, as the case may be (any such Person,
      a "Constituent Person"), or an Affiliate of a Constituent Person to the
      extent such Reorganization Event provides for different treatment of
      Common Stock held by Affiliates of the Company and non-Affiliates, and (B)
      failed to exercise his rights of election, if any, as to the kind or
      amount of securities, cash and other property receivable upon such
      Reorganization Event (provided that if the kind or amount of securities,
      cash and other property receivable upon such Reorganization Event is not
      the same for each share of Common Stock held immediately prior to such
      Reorganization Event by a Person other than a Constituent Person or an
      Affiliate thereof and in respect of which such rights of election shall
      not have been exercised ("Non-electing Share"), then for the purpose of
      this Section 5.04 the kind and amount of securities, cash and other
      property receivable upon such Reorganization Event in respect of each
      Non-electing Share shall be deemed to be the kind and amount so receivable
      per share of Common Stock by a plurality of the Non-electing Shares). On
      the Stock Purchase Date, the Settlement Rate then in effect will be
      applied to the value on the Stock Purchase Date of such securities, cash
      or other property.

            In the event of such a Reorganization Event, the Person formed by
      such consolidation, merger or exchange or the Person which acquires the
      assets of the Company or, in the event of a liquidation or dissolution of
      the Company, the Company or a liquidating trust created in connection
      therewith, shall execute and deliver to the Purchase Contract Agent an
      agreement supplemental hereto providing that the Holder of each
      Outstanding Common Equity Unit shall have the rights provided by this
      Section 5.04. Such supplemental agreement shall provide for adjustments
      which, for events subsequent to the effective date of such supplemental
      agreement, shall be as nearly equivalent as may be practicable to the
      adjustments provided for in this Section 5.04. The above provisions of
      this Section 5.04 shall similarly apply to successive Reorganization
      Events.

      (c) Successive Adjustments. After an adjustment to a Fixed Daily
Settlement Rate under this Section 5.04, any subsequent event requiring an
adjustment under this Section 5.04 shall cause an adjustment to such Fixed Daily
Settlement Rate as so adjusted.

                                       48

(d) Multiple Adjustments. For the avoidance of doubt, if an event occurs
that would trigger an adjustment to a Fixed Daily Settlement Rate pursuant to
this Section 5.04 under more than one subsection hereof, such event, to the
extent fully taken into account in a single adjustment, shall not result in
multiple adjustments hereunder.

      Section 5.05 Notice of Adjustments and Certain Other Events.

      (a) Whenever a Fixed Daily Settlement Rate is adjusted as provided under
Sections 5.04(a) or 5.04(b), the Company shall within 10 Business Days following
the occurrence of an event that requires such adjustment (or if the Company is
not aware of such occurrence, as soon as reasonably practicable after becoming
so aware):

            (i) compute the adjusted applicable Fixed Daily Settlement Rate in
      accordance with Section 5.04 and prepare and transmit to the Stock
      Purchase Contract Agent an Officers' Certificate setting forth the
      applicable Fixed Daily Settlement Rate, as the case may be, the method of
      calculation thereof in reasonable detail, and the facts requiring such
      adjustment and upon which such adjustment is based; and

            (ii) provide a written notice to the Holders of the Common Equity
      Units of the occurrence of such event and a statement in reasonable detail
      setting forth the method by which the adjustment to the applicable Fixed
      Daily Settlement Rate was determined and setting forth the adjusted
      applicable Fixed Daily Settlement Rate.

      (b) The Stock Purchase Contract Agent shall not at any time be under any
duty or responsibility to any Holder of Common Equity Units to determine whether
any facts exist which may require any adjustment of the applicable Fixed Daily
Settlement Rate or with respect to the nature or extent or calculation of any
such adjustment when made, or with respect to the method employed in making the
same. The Stock Purchase Contract Agent shall be fully authorized and protected
in relying on any Officers' Certificate delivered pursuant to Section 5.05(a)(i)
and any adjustment contained therein and the Stock Purchase Contract Agent shall
not be deemed to have knowledge of any adjustment unless and until it has
received such certificate. The Stock Purchase Contract Agent shall not be
accountable with respect to the validity or value (or the kind or amount) of any
shares of Common Stock, or of any securities or property, which may at the time
be issued or delivered with respect to any Stock Purchase Contract; and the
Stock Purchase Contract Agent makes no representation with respect thereto. The
Stock Purchase Contract Agent shall not be responsible for any failure of the
Company to issue, transfer or deliver any shares of Common Stock pursuant to a
Stock Purchase Contract or to comply with any of the duties, responsibilities or
covenants of the Company contained in this Article V.

      Section 5.06 Termination Event; Notice.

      The Stock Purchase Contracts and all obligations and rights of the Company
and the Holders thereunder, including, without limitation, the rights of the
Holders to receive and the obligation of the Company to pay any Contract
Payments (including any accrued and unpaid Contract Payments), if the Company
shall have such obligation, and the rights and obligations of Holders to
purchase Common Stock, shall immediately and automatically terminate, without
the

                                       49

necessity of any notice or action by any Holder, the Stock Purchase Contract
Agent or the Company, if, prior to or on the Stock Purchase Date, a Termination
Event shall have occurred.

      Upon and after the occurrence of a Termination Event, the Common Equity
Units shall thereafter represent the right to receive the Trust Preferred
Securities or the Treasury Securities, as the case may be, forming part of such
Common Equity Units, in accordance with the provisions of Section 5.04 of the
Pledge Agreement. Upon the occurrence of a Termination Event, the Company shall
promptly but in no event later than two Business Days thereafter give written
notice to the Stock Purchase Contract Agent, the Collateral Agent and the
Holders, at their addresses as they appear in the Security Register.

      Section 5.07 Early Settlement.

      (a) Subject to and upon compliance with the provisions of this Section
5.07, at the option of the Holder thereof, Stock Purchase Contracts underlying
Common Equity Units having an aggregated Stated Amount equal to $1,000 or an
integral multiple thereof may be settled early ("Early Settlement") at any time
until 5:00 p.m. (New York City time) on the fifth Business Day immediately
preceding the applicable Stock Purchase Date; provided that no Early Settlement
will be permitted pursuant to this Section 5.07 unless, at the time such Early
Settlement is effected, there is an effective Registration Statement with
respect to any securities to be issued and delivered in connection with such
Early Settlement, if such a Registration Statement is required (in the view of
counsel, which need not be in the form of a written opinion, for the Company)
under the Securities Act. If such a Registration Statement is so required, the
Company covenants and agrees to use commercially reasonable efforts to (i) have
in effect a Registration Statement covering any securities to be delivered in
respect of the Stock Purchase Contracts being settled and (ii) provide a
Prospectus in connection therewith, in each case in a form that may be used in
connection with such Early Settlement.

      (b) In order to exercise the right to effect Early Settlement with respect
to any Stock Purchase Contracts, the Holder of the Certificate evidencing Common
Equity Units shall deliver such Certificate to the Stock Purchase Contract Agent
at the Corporate Trust Office duly endorsed for transfer to the Company or in
blank with the "Election to Settle Early" form on the reverse thereof duly
completed and accompanied by payment (payable to the Company in immediately
available funds) in an amount (the "Early Settlement Amount") equal to the sum
of:

            (i) the product of (A) the Stated Amount times (B) the number of
      Stock Purchase Contracts with respect to which the Holder has elected to
      effect Early Settlement, plus

            (ii) if such delivery is made with respect to any Stock Purchase
      Contracts during the period from the close of business on any Record Date
      next preceding any Payment Date to the opening of business on such Payment
      Date, an amount equal to the Contract Payments payable on such Payment
      Date with respect to such Stock Purchase Contracts.

      Except as provided in the immediately preceding sentence, no payment shall
be made upon Early Settlement of any Stock Purchase Contract on account of any
Contract Payments

                                       50

accrued on such Stock Purchase Contract or on account of any dividends on the
Common Stock issued upon such Early Settlement. If the foregoing requirements
are first satisfied with respect to Stock Purchase Contracts underlying any
Common Equity Units by 5:00 p.m. (New York City time) on a Business Day, such
day shall be the "Early Settlement Date" with respect to such Common Equity
Units and if such requirements are first satisfied after 5:00 p.m. (New York
City time) on a Business Day or on a day that is not a Business Day, the "Early
Settlement Date" with respect to such Common Equity Units shall be the next
succeeding Business Day.

      Upon the receipt of such Certificate and Early Settlement Amount from the
Holder, the Stock Purchase Contract Agent shall pay to the Company such Early
Settlement Amount, the receipt of which payment the Company shall confirm in
writing. The Stock Purchase Contract Agent shall then, in accordance with
Section 5.06 of the Pledge Agreement, notify the Collateral Agent that (A) such
Holder has elected to effect an Early Settlement, which notice shall set forth
the number of such Stock Purchase Contracts as to which such Holder has elected
to effect Early Settlement and (B) the Stock Purchase Contract Agent has
received from such Holder, and paid to the Company as confirmed in writing by
the Company, the related Early Settlement Amount.

      Holders of Stripped Common Equity Units may only effect Early Settlement
pursuant to this Section 5.07 in integral multiples of 80 Stripped Common Equity
Units.

      Upon Early Settlement of the Stock Purchase Contracts, the rights of the
Holders to receive and the obligation of the Company to pay any Contract
Payments (including any accrued and unpaid Contract Payments) with respect to
such Stock Purchase Contracts shall immediately and automatically terminate.

      (c) Upon Early Settlement of Stock Purchase Contracts by a Holder of the
related Common Equity Units, the Company shall issue, and the Holder shall be
entitled to receive, a number of newly issued or treasury shares of Common Stock
equal to the Minimum Settlement Rate, as adjusted in the same manner and the
same time as the Fixed Settlement Settlement Rates are adjusted (the "Early
Settlement Rate").

      (d) No later than the third Business Day after the applicable Early
Settlement Date, the Company shall cause:

            (i) the shares of Common Stock issuable upon Early Settlement of
      Stock Purchase Contracts to be issued and delivered, together with payment
      in lieu of any fraction of a share, as provided in Section 5.09; and

            (ii) the related Pledged Trust Preferred Securities, in the case of
      Normal Common Equity Units, or the related Pledged Treasury Securities, in
      the case of Stripped Common Equity Units, to be released from the Pledge
      by the Collateral Agent, free and clear of the Company's security interest
      therein, and transferred, in each case, to the Stock Purchase Contract
      Agent for delivery to the Holder thereof or its designee.

      (e) Upon Early Settlement of any Stock Purchase Contracts, and subject to
receipt of shares of Common Stock from the Company and the Trust Preferred
Securities or Treasury Securities, as the case may be, from the Securities
Intermediary, as applicable, the Stock Purchase Contract Agent shall, in
accordance with the instructions provided by the Holder

                                       51

thereof on the applicable form of Election to Settle Early on the reverse of the
Certificate evidencing the related Common Equity Units:

            (i) transfer to the Holder the Trust Preferred Securities or
      Treasury Securities, as the case may be, forming a part of such Common
      Equity Units,

            (ii) deliver to the Holder by book-entry transfer or in the form of
      a certificate or certificates for the full number of shares of Common
      Stock issuable upon such Early Settlement, together with payment in lieu
      of any fraction of a share, as provided in Section 5.09, as received from
      the Company, and

            (iii) if so required under the Securities Act, deliver a Prospectus
      for the shares of Common Stock issuable upon such Early Settlement as
      contemplated by (a), as received from the Company.

      (f) In the event that Early Settlement is effected with respect to Stock
Purchase Contracts underlying less than all the Common Equity Units evidenced by
a Certificate, upon such Early Settlement the Company shall execute and the
Stock Purchase Contract Agent shall execute on behalf of the Holder,
authenticate and deliver to the Holder thereof, at the expense of the Company, a
Certificate evidencing the Common Equity Units as to which Early Settlement was
not effected.

      (g) A Holder of a Common Equity Unit who effects Early Settlement may
elect to have the Preferred Trust Securities no longer a part of a Normal Common
Equity Unit remarketed in accordance with the provisions of Section 5.02.

      Section 5.08 No Fractional Shares.

      No fractional shares of Common Stock shall be issued or delivered upon
settlement on any Stock Purchase Date, or upon Early Settlement or Cash Merger
Early Settlement of any Stock Purchase Contracts. If Certificates evidencing
more than one Stock Purchase Contract shall be surrendered for settlement at one
time by the same Holder, the number of full shares of Common Stock that shall be
delivered upon settlement shall be computed on the basis of the aggregate number
of Stock Purchase Contracts evidenced by the Certificates so surrendered.
Instead of any fractional share of Common Stock that would otherwise be
deliverable upon settlement of any Stock Purchase Contracts on the Stock
Purchase Date, or upon Early Settlement or Cash Merger Early Settlement, the
Company, through the Stock Purchase Contract Agent, shall make a cash payment in
respect of such fractional interest in an amount equal to the percentage of such
fractional share times the Closing Price as of the Trading Day immediately
preceding such Stock Purchase Date, or upon Early Settlement or Cash Merger
Early Settlement. The Company shall provide the Stock Purchase Contract Agent
from time to time with sufficient funds to permit the Stock Purchase Contract
Agent to make all cash payments required by this Section 5.08 in a timely
manner.

      Section 5.09 Charges and Taxes.

      The Company will pay all stock transfer and similar taxes attributable to
the initial issuance and delivery of the shares of Common Stock pursuant to the
Stock Purchase Contracts;

                                       52

provided, however, that the Company shall not be required to pay any such tax or
taxes which may be payable in respect of any exchange of or substitution for a
Certificate evidencing a Common Equity Unit or any issuance of a share of Common
Stock in a name other than that of the registered Holder of a Certificate
surrendered in respect of the Common Equity Units evidenced thereby, other than
in the name of the Stock Purchase Contract Agent, as custodian for such Holder,
and the Company shall not be required to issue or deliver such share
certificates or Certificates unless or until the Person or Persons requesting
the transfer or issuance thereof shall have paid to the Company the amount of
such tax or shall have established to the satisfaction of the Company that such
tax has been paid.

      Section 5.10 Contract Payments.

      (a) Subject to Section 5.10(d) and Section 5.11, the Company shall pay, on
each Payment Date, the Contract Payments (net of any withholding tax required by
law to be withheld by the Company on such payments, which shall be remitted to
the appropriate taxing jurisdiction) payable in respect of each Stock Purchase
Contract to the Person in whose name a Certificate is registered at the close of
business on the Record Date relating to such Payment Date. The Contract Payments
will be payable at the office of the Stock Purchase Contract Agent in the
Borough of Manhattan, New York City maintained for that purpose. If the
book-entry system for the Common Equity Units has been terminated, the Contract
Payments will be payable, at the option of the Company, by check mailed to the
address of the Person entitled thereto at such Person's address as it appears on
the Security Register, or by wire transfer to the account designated by such
Person by a prior written notice to the Stock Purchase Contract Agent. If any
date on which Contract Payments are to be made is not a Business Day, then
payment of the Contract Payments payable on such date will be made on the next
succeeding day that is a Business Day (and without any interest in respect of
such delay). Contract Payments payable for any period will be computed on the
basis of a 360-day year of twelve 30-day months. The Contract Payments will
accrue from June 21, 2005.

      (b) Upon the occurrence of a Termination Event, the Company's obligation
to pay future Contract Payments (including any accrued Contract Payments) shall
cease.

      (c) Each Certificate delivered under this Agreement upon registration of
transfer of or in exchange for or in lieu of (including as a result of a
Collateral Substitution or the recreation of Normal Common Equity Units) any
other Certificate shall carry the right to accrued and unpaid Contract Payments,
which right was carried by the Stock Purchase Contracts underlying such other
Certificates.

      (d) In the case of any Common Equity Units with respect to which Early
Settlement or Cash Merger Early Settlement of the underlying Stock Purchase
Contract is effected on a date that is after any Record Date and prior to or on
the next succeeding Payment Date, Contract Payments otherwise payable on such
Payment Date shall be payable on such Payment Date notwithstanding such Early
Settlement or Cash Merger Early Settlement, and such Contract Payments shall be
paid to the Person in whose name the Certificate evidencing such Common Equity
Units is registered at the close of business on such Record Date. Except as
otherwise expressly provided in the immediately preceding sentence, and the
right to receive accrued and unpaid Contract Payments as set forth in Section
5.04(b)(ii), in the case of any Common Equity

                                       53

Units with respect to which Early Settlement or Cash Merger Early Settlement of
the underlying Stock Purchase Contract is effected, Contract Payments that would
otherwise be payable after the Early Settlement or Cash Merger Early Settlement
Date with respect to such Stock Purchase Contract shall not be payable.

      (e) The Company's obligations with respect to Contract Payments, if any,
will be subordinated and junior in right of payment to the Company's obligations
under any existing or future Senior Debt.

      (f) In the event of (A) any insolvency, bankruptcy, receivership,
liquidation, reorganization, readjustment, composition or other similar
proceeding relating to the Company, its creditors or its property, (B) any
proceeding for the liquidation, dissolution or other winding up of the Company,
voluntary or involuntary, whether or not involving insolvency or bankruptcy
proceedings, (C) any assignment by the Company for the benefit of creditors, or
(D) any other marshalling of the assets of the Company:

            (i) all existing and future Senior Debt (including any interest
      thereon accruing after the commencement of any such proceedings) shall
      first be paid in full before any payment or distribution, whether in cash,
      securities or other property, shall be made to any Holder of Common Equity
      Units;

            (ii) any payment or distribution, whether in cash, securities or
      other property, which would otherwise (but for these subordination
      provisions) be payable or deliverable in respect of the Common Equity
      Units shall be paid or delivered directly to the holders of existing and
      future Senior Debt in accordance with the priorities then existing among
      such holders until all existing and future Senior Debt (including any
      interest thereon accruing after the commencement of any such proceedings)
      shall have been paid in full;

            (iii) after payment in full of all sums owing with respect to Senior
      Debt, the Holders of Common Equity Units, together with the holders of any
      obligations of the Company ranking on a parity with the Common Equity
      Units, shall be entitled to be paid from the remaining assets of the
      Company the amounts at the time due and owing on account of unpaid
      Contract Payments and interest thereon and such other obligations before
      any payment or other distribution, whether in cash, property or otherwise,
      shall be made on account of any capital stock or any obligations of the
      Company ranking junior to the Company's obligations under the Stock
      Purchase Contracts and such other obligations; and

            (iv) in the event that, notwithstanding the foregoing, any payment
      or distribution of any character or any security, whether in cash,
      securities or other property, shall be received by the Stock Purchase
      Contract Agent or any Holder of Common Equity Units in contravention of
      any of the terms hereof such payment or distribution or security shall be
      received in trust for the benefit of, and shall be paid over or delivered
      and transferred to, the holders of the Senior Debt at the time outstanding
      in accordance with the priorities then existing among such holders for
      application to the payment of all secured and Senior Debt remaining
      unpaid, to the extent necessary to pay all such existing and future Senior
      Debt in full. In the event of the failure of the Stock Purchase

                                       54

Contract Agent or any Holder of Common Equity Units to endorse or assign
      any such payment, distribution or security, each holder of existing and
      future Senior Debt is hereby irrevocably authorized to endorse or assign
      the same.

      (g) For purposes of Section 5.11(e) through (q), the words "cash, property
or securities" shall not be deemed to include shares of stock of the Company as
reorganized or readjusted, or securities of the Company or any other Person
provided for by a plan of reorganization or readjustment, the payment of which
is subordinated at least to the extent provided in Section 5.10(e) through (q)
with respect to such Contract Payments on the Common Equity Units to the payment
of all existing and future Senior Debt which may at the time be outstanding;
provided that (i) the indebtedness or guarantee of indebtedness, as the case may
be, that constitutes Senior Debt is assumed by the Person, if any, resulting
from any such reorganization or readjustment, and (ii) the rights of the holders
of the Senior Debt are not, without the consent of each such holder adversely
affected thereby, altered by such reorganization or readjustment.

      (h) Any failure by the Company to make any payment on or perform any other
obligation under existing and future Senior Debt, other than any indebtedness
incurred by the Company or assumed or guaranteed, directly or indirectly, by the
Company for money borrowed (or any deferral, renewal, extension or refunding
thereof) or any indebtedness or obligation as to which the provisions of Section
5.10(e) through (q) shall have been waived by the Company in the instrument or
instruments by which the Company incurred, assumed, guaranteed or otherwise
created such indebtedness or obligation, shall not be deemed a default or event
of default under this Agreement if (i) the Company shall be disputing its
obligation to make such payment or perform such obligation and (ii) either (A)
no final judgment relating to such dispute shall have been issued against the
Company which is in full force and effect and is not subject to further review,
including a judgment that has become final by reason of the expiration of the
time within which a party may seek further appeal or review, or (B) in the event
a judgment that is subject to further review or appeal has been issued, the
Company shall in good faith be prosecuting an appeal or other proceeding for
review and a stay of execution shall have been obtained pending such appeal or
review.

      (i) Subject to the irrevocable payment in full of all existing and future
Senior Debt, the Holders of the Common Equity Units shall be subrogated (equally
and ratably with the holders of all obligations of the Company which by their
express terms are subordinated to Senior Debt of the Company to the same extent
as payment of the Contract Payments in respect of the Stock Purchase Contracts
underlying the Common Equity Units is subordinated and which are entitled to
like rights of subrogation) to the rights of the holders of Senior Debt to
receive payments or distributions of cash, property or securities of the Company
applicable to the Senior Debt until all such Contract Payments owing on the
Common Equity Units shall be paid in full, and as between the Company, its
creditors other than holders of such Senior Debt and the Holders, no such
payment or distribution made to the holders of Senior Debt by virtue of Section
5.10(e) through (q) that otherwise would have been made to the Holders shall be
deemed to be a payment by the Company on account of such Senior Debt, it being
understood that the provisions of Section 5.10(e) through (q) are and are
intended solely for the purpose of defining the relative rights of the Holders,
on the one hand, and the holders of Senior Debt, on the other hand.

                                       55

(j) Nothing contained in Section 5.10(e) through (q) or elsewhere in this
Agreement or in the Common Equity Units is intended to or shall impair, as among
the Company, its creditors other than the holders of Senior Debt and the
Holders, the obligation of the Company, which is absolute and unconditional, to
pay to the Holders such Contract Payments on the Common Equity Units as and when
the same shall become due and payable in accordance with their terms, or is
intended to or shall affect the relative rights of the Holders and creditors of
the Company other than the holders of Senior Debt, nor shall anything herein or
therein prevent the Stock Purchase Contract Agent or any Holder from exercising
all remedies otherwise permitted by applicable law upon default under this
Agreement, subject to the rights, if any, under Section 5.10(e) through (q), of
the holders of Senior Debt in respect of cash, property or securities of the
Company received upon the exercise of any such remedy.

      (k) Upon payment or distribution of assets of the Company referred to in
Section 5.10(e) through (q), the Stock Purchase Contract Agent and the Holders
shall be entitled to rely upon any order or decree made by any court of
competent jurisdiction in which any such dissolution, winding up, liquidation or
reorganization proceeding affecting the affairs of the Company is pending or
upon a certificate of the trustee in bankruptcy, receiver, assignee for the
benefit of creditors, liquidating trustee or Stock Purchase Contract Agent or
other person making any payment or distribution, delivered to the Stock Purchase
Contract Agent or to the Holders, for the purpose of ascertaining the Persons
entitled to participate in such payment or distribution, the holders of the
Senior Debt and other indebtedness of the Company, the amount thereof or payable
thereon, the amount or amounts paid or distributed thereon and all other facts
pertinent thereto or to this Section 5.10(e) through (q).

      (l) The Stock Purchase Contract Agent shall be entitled to rely on the
delivery to it of a written notice by a Person representing himself to be a
holder of Senior Debt (or a trustee or representative on behalf of such holder)
to establish that such notice has been given by a holder of Senior Debt or a
trustee or representative on behalf of any such holder or holders. In the event
that the Stock Purchase Contract Agent determines in good faith that further
evidence is required with respect to the right of any Person as a holder of
Senior Debt to participate in any payment or distribution pursuant to Section
5.10(e) through (q), the Stock Purchase Contract Agent may request such Person
to furnish evidence to the reasonable satisfaction of the Stock Purchase
Contract Agent as to the amount of Senior Debt held by such Person, the extent
to which such Person is entitled to participate in such payment or distribution
and any other facts pertinent to the rights of such Person under Section 5.10(e)
through (q), and, if such evidence is not furnished, the Stock Purchase Contract
Agent may defer payment to such Person pending judicial determination as to the
right of such Person to receive such payment.

      (m) Nothing contained in Section 5.10(e) through (q) shall affect the
obligations of the Company to make, or prevent the Company from making, payment
of the Contract Payments, except as otherwise provided in this Section 5.10(e)
through (q).

      (n) Each Holder of Common Equity Units, by its acceptance thereof, shall
be deemed to have authorized and directed the Stock Purchase Contract Agent on
its behalf to take such action as may be necessary or appropriate to effectuate
the subordination provided in Section 5.10(e) through (q) and appointed the
Stock Purchase Contract Agent its attorney-in-fact, as the case may be, for any
and all such purposes.

                                       56

(o) The Company shall give prompt written notice to the Stock Purchase
Contract Agent of any fact known to the Company that would prohibit the making
of any payment of moneys to or by the Stock Purchase Contract Agent in respect
of the Common Equity Units pursuant to the provisions of this Section.
Notwithstanding the provisions of Section 5.11(e) through (q) or any other
provisions of this Agreement, the Stock Purchase Contract Agent shall not be
charged with knowledge of the existence of any facts that would prohibit the
making of any payment of moneys to or by the Stock Purchase Contract Agent, or
the taking of any other action by the Stock Purchase Contract Agent, unless and
until the Stock Purchase Contract Agent shall have received written notice
thereof mailed or delivered to the Stock Purchase Contract Agent at its
Corporate Trust Office department from the Company, any Holder, or the holder or
representative of any Senior Debt; provided that if at least two Business Days
prior to the date upon which by the terms hereof any such moneys may become
payable for any purpose, the Stock Purchase Contract Agent shall not have
received with respect to such moneys the notice provided for in this Section,
then, anything herein contained to the contrary notwithstanding, the Stock
Purchase Contract Agent shall have full power and authority to receive such
moneys and to apply the same to the purpose for which they were received and
shall not be affected by any notice to the contrary that may be received by it
within two Business Days prior to or on or after such date.

      (p) The Stock Purchase Contract Agent in its individual capacity shall be
entitled to all the rights set forth in this Section with respect to any Senior
Debt at the time held by it, to the same extent as any other holder of Senior
Debt and nothing in this Agreement shall deprive the Stock Purchase Contract
Agent of any of its rights as such holder.

      (q) No right of any present or future holder of any Senior Debt to enforce
the subordination herein shall at any time or in any way be prejudiced or
impaired by any act or failure to act on the part of the Company or by any
noncompliance by the Company with the terms, provisions and covenants of this
Agreement, regardless of any knowledge thereof which any such holder may have or
be otherwise charged with.

      (r) Nothing in this Section 5.10 shall apply to claims of, or payments to,
the Stock Purchase Contract Agent under or pursuant to Section 7.07.

      (s) With respect to the holders of existing and future Senior Debt, (i)
the duties and obligations of the Stock Purchase Contract Agent shall be
determined solely by the express provisions of this Agreement; (ii) the Stock
Purchase Contract Agent shall not be liable to any such holders if it shall,
acting in good faith, mistakenly pay over or distribute to the Holders or to the
Company or any other Person cash, property or securities to which any holders of
existing and future Senior Debt shall be entitled by virtue of this Section 5.11
or otherwise; (iii) no implied covenants or obligations shall be read into this
Agreement against the Stock Purchase Contract Agent; and (iv) the Stock Purchase
Contract Agent shall not be deemed to be a fiduciary as to such holders.

      Section 5.11 Deferral of Contract Payments.

      (a) The Company shall have the right, at any time prior to February 15,
2010, to defer the payment of any or all of the Contract Payments otherwise
payable on any Payment Date, but

                                       57

only if the Company shall give the Holders and the Stock Purchase Contract Agent
written notice of its election to defer each such deferred Contract Payment
(specifying the amount to be deferred) at least ten Business Days prior to the
earlier of (i) the next succeeding Payment Date or (ii) the date the Company is
required to give notice of the Record Date or Payment Date with respect to
payment of such Contract Payments to the NYSE or other applicable
self-regulatory organization or to Holders of the Common Equity Units, but in
any event not less than one Business Day prior to such Record Date. Any Contract
Payments so deferred shall, to the extent permitted by law, accrue interest
thereon at the rate of 6.375% per year (computed on the basis of a 360-day year
of twelve 30-day months), compounding on each succeeding Payment Date, until
paid in full (such deferred installments of Contract Payments, if any, together
with the additional Contract Payments, if any, accrued thereon, being referred
to herein as the "Deferred Contract Payments"). Deferred Contract Payments, if
any, shall be due on the next succeeding Payment Date except to the extent that
payment is deferred pursuant to this Section 5.11. No Contract Payments may be
deferred to a date that is after February 15, 2010 and no such deferral period
may end other than on a Payment Date. If the Stock Purchase Contracts are
terminated upon the occurrence of a Termination Event, the Holder's right to
receive Contract Payments, if any, and any Deferred Contract Payments, will
terminate.

      (b) In the event that the Company elects to defer the payment of Contract
Payments on the Stock Purchase Contracts until a Payment Date prior to the Stock
Purchase Date, then all Deferred Contract Payments, if any, shall be payable to
the registered Holders as of the close of business on the Record Date
immediately preceding such Payment Date.

      (c) In the event that the Company elects or is directed by the Federal
Reserve Board to defer the payment of Contract Payments on the Stock Purchase
Contracts, each Holder will receive in respect of such deferred payments on the
Stock Purchase Date in lieu of a cash payment, in the sole discretion of the
Company, either (i) a number of shares of Common Stock (in addition to a number
of shares of Common Stock per Common Equity Unit equal to the Settlement Rate)
equal to (A) the aggregate amount of Deferred Contract Payments payable to such
Holder (net of any required tax withholding on such Deferred Contract Payment,
which shall be remitted to the appropriate taxing jurisdiction) divided by (B)
(1) in the case of Contract Payments payable on or before the Initial Stock
Purchase Date, the greater of (x) the Closing Price of the Common Stock on the
Trading Day immediately preceding the Initial Stock Purchase Date and (y)
$14.45, and (2) in the case of Contract Payments payable after the Initial Stock
Purchase Date, the greater of (x) Closing Price of the Common Stock on the
Trading Day immediately preceding the Subsequent Stock Purchase Date) and (y)
$14.45, subject in each case to adjustment in the same manner and under the same
circumstances as the Fixed Daily Settlement Rates pursuant to Section 5.04, or
(ii) Unsecured Notes which will (A) have a principal amount equal to the
aggregate amount of Deferred Contract Payments, (B) mature on August 15, 2010,
(C) bear interest at an annual rate equal to the then market rate of interest
for similar instruments (not to exceed 10%), as determined by a nationally
recognized investment banking firm selected by the Company, (D) be subordinate
and rank junior in right of payment to all of the Company's existing and future
Senior Debt on the same basis as the Contract Payments, and (E) not be
redeemable by the Company prior to their stated maturity.

      (d) No fractional shares of Common Stock will be issued by the Company
with respect to the payment of Deferred Contract Payments on the Stock Purchase
Date. In lieu of

                                       58

fractional shares otherwise issuable with respect to such payment of Deferred
Contract Payments, the Holder will be entitled to receive an amount in cash as
provided in Section 5.08.

      (e) In the event the Company exercises its option to defer the payment of
Contract Payments then, until the earlier of (x) the Termination Date or (y) the
date on which the Deferred Contract Payments have been paid, the Company shall
not (A) declare or pay dividends on, make distributions with respect to, or
redeem, purchase or acquire, or make a liquidation payment with respect to, any
of the Company's Capital Stock; (B) make any payment of principal of, or
interest or premium, if any, on or repay, repurchase or redeem the other series
of junior subordinated debt securities or any debt securities issued by the
Company that rank equally with or junior to the Company's junior subordinated
debt securities (except for partial payments of interest with respect to the
junior subordinated debt securities); and (C) make any payment under any
guarantee that ranks equally with or junior to the Company's guarantee related
to the Trust Preferred Securities other than, in each case:

            (i) any repurchase, redemption or other acquisition of shares of
      capital stock of the Company in connection with (x) any employment
      contract, benefit plan or other similar arrangement with or for the
      benefit of any one or more employees, officers, directors, consultants or
      independent contractors, (y) a dividend reinvestment or stockholder
      purchase plan, or (z) the issuance of capital stock of the Company, or
      securities convertible into or exercisable for such capital stock, as
      consideration in an acquisition transaction entered into prior to the
      applicable Event of Default, Default or Deferral Period, as the case may
      be;

            (ii) any exchange, redemption or conversion of any class or series
      of capital stock of the Company, or the capital stock of one of the
      Company's subsidiaries, for any other class or series of capital stock of
      the Company, or of any class or series of the Company's indebtedness for
      any class or series of capital stock of the Company;

            (iii) any purchase of, or payment of cash in lieu of, fractional
      interests in shares of capital stock of the Company pursuant to the
      conversion or exchange provisions of such capital stock or the securities
      being converted or exchanged;

            (iv) any declaration of a dividend in connection with any rights
      plan, or the issuance of rights, stock or other property under any rights
      plan, or the redemption or repurchase of rights pursuant thereto;

            (v) payments by the Company under the Guarantee related to the
      applicable Trust Preferred Securities; or

            (vi) any dividend in the form of stock, warrants, options or other
      rights where the dividend stock or stock issuable upon exercise of such
      warrants, options or other rights is the same stock as that on which the
      dividend is being paid or ranks equal with or junior to such stock.

                                       59

ARTICLE VI

                                    REMEDIES

      Section 6.01 Unconditional Right of Holders to Receive Contract Payments
and to Purchase Shares of Common Stock.

      Each Holder of a Common Equity Unit shall have the right, which is
absolute and unconditional, (i) subject to Article V, to receive each Contract
Payment with respect to the Stock Purchase Contract comprising part of such
Common Equity Units on the respective Payment Date for such Common Equity Units
and (ii) except upon and following a Termination Event, to purchase shares of
Common Stock pursuant to such Stock Purchase Contract and, in each such case, to
institute suit for the enforcement of any such right to receive Contract
Payments and the right to purchase shares of Common Stock, and such rights shall
not be impaired without the consent of such Holder.

      Section 6.02 Restoration of Rights and Remedies.

      If any Holder has instituted any proceeding to enforce any right or remedy
under this Agreement and such proceeding has been discontinued or abandoned for
any reason, or has been determined adversely to such Holder, then and in every
such case, subject to any determination in such proceeding, the Company and such
Holder shall be restored severally and respectively to their former positions
hereunder, and thereafter all rights and remedies of such Holder shall continue
as though no such proceeding had been instituted.

      Section 6.03 Rights and Remedies Cumulative.

      Except as otherwise provided with respect to the replacement or payment of
mutilated, destroyed, lost or stolen Certificates in the last paragraph of
Section 3.10, no right or remedy herein conferred upon or reserved to the
Holders is intended to be exclusive of any other right or remedy, and every
right and remedy shall, to the extent permitted by law, be cumulative and in
addition to every other right and remedy given hereunder or now or hereafter
existing at law or in equity or otherwise. The assertion or employment of any
right or remedy hereunder, or otherwise, shall not prevent the concurrent
assertion or employment of any other appropriate right or remedy.

      Section 6.04 Delay or Omission Not Waiver.

      No delay or omission of any Holder to exercise any right upon a default or
remedy upon a default shall impair any such right or remedy or constitute a
waiver of any such right. Every right and remedy given by this Article VI or by
law to the Holders may be exercised from time to time, and as often as may be
deemed expedient, by such Holders.

      Section 6.05 Undertaking for Costs.

      All parties to this Agreement agree, and each Holder of a Common Equity
Unit, by its acceptance of such Common Equity Units shall be deemed to have
agreed, that any court may in its discretion require, in any suit for the
enforcement of any right or remedy under this

                                       60

Agreement, or in any suit against the Stock Purchase Contract Agent for any
action taken, suffered or omitted by it as Stock Purchase Contract Agent, the
filing by any party litigant in such suit of an undertaking to pay the costs of
such suit, and that such court may in its discretion assess reasonable costs,
including reasonable attorneys' fees and costs against any party litigant in
such suit, having due regard to the merits and good faith of the claims or
defenses made by such party litigant; provided that the provisions of this
Section shall not apply to any suit instituted by the Stock Purchase Contract
Agent, to any suit instituted by any Holder, or group of Holders, holding in the
aggregate more than 10% of the Outstanding Common Equity Units, or to any suit
instituted by any Holder for the enforcement of interest on any Trust Preferred
Securities or Contract Payments on or after the respective Payment Date therefor
in respect of any Common Equity Units held by such Holder, or for enforcement of
the right to purchase shares of Common Stock under the Stock Purchase Contracts
constituting part of any Common Equity Units held by such Holder.

      Section 6.06 Waiver of Stay or Extension Laws.

      The Company covenants (to the extent that it may lawfully do so) that it
will not at any time insist upon, or plead, or in any manner whatsoever claim or
take the benefit or advantage of, any stay or extension law wherever enacted,
now or at any time hereafter in force, which may affect the covenants or the
performance of this Agreement; and the Company (to the extent that it may
lawfully do so) hereby expressly waives all benefit or advantage of any such law
and covenants that it will not hinder, delay or impede the execution of any
power herein granted to the Stock Purchase Contract Agent or the Holders, but
will suffer and permit the execution of every such power as though no such law
had been enacted.

                                  ARTICLE VII

                        THE STOCK PURCHASE CONTRACT AGENT

      Section 7.01 Certain Duties and Responsibilities.

      (a) The Stock Purchase Contract Agent:

            (i) undertakes to perform, with respect to the Common Equity Units,
      such duties and only such duties as are or will be specifically set forth
      in this Agreement, the Pledge Agreement and the Remarketing Agreement and
      no implied covenants or obligations shall be read into this Agreement, the
      Pledge Agreement or the Remarketing Agreement against the Stock Purchase
      Contract Agent; and

            (ii) in the absence of bad faith or negligence on its part, may,
      with respect to the Common Equity Units, conclusively rely, as to the
      truth of the statements and the correctness of the opinions expressed
      therein, upon certificates or opinions furnished to the Stock Purchase
      Contract Agent and conforming to the requirements of this Agreement or the
      Pledge Agreement or the Remarketing Agreement, as applicable, but in the
      case of any certificates or opinions which by any provision hereof are
      specifically required to be furnished to the Stock Purchase Contract
      Agent, the Stock Purchase Contract Agent shall be under a duty to examine
      the same to determine whether or not

                                       61

they conform to the requirements of this Agreement, the Pledge Agreement
      or the Remarketing Agreement, as applicable (but need not confirm or
      investigate the accuracy of the mathematical calculations or other facts
      stated therein).

      (b) No provision of this Agreement, the Pledge Agreement or the
Remarketing Agreement shall be construed to relieve the Stock Purchase Contract
Agent from liability for its own negligent action, its own negligent failure to
act, or its own willful misconduct, except that:

            (i) this subsection shall not be construed to limit the effect of
      subsection (a) of this Section;

            (ii) the Stock Purchase Contract Agent shall not be liable for any
      error of judgment made in good faith by a Responsible Officer, unless it
      shall be conclusively determined by a court of competent jurisdiction that
      the Stock Purchase Contract Agent was negligent in ascertaining the
      pertinent facts; and

            (iii) no provision of this Agreement or the Pledge Agreement or the
      Remarketing Agreement shall require the Stock Purchase Contract Agent to
      expend or risk its own funds or otherwise incur any financial liability in
      the performance of any of its duties hereunder or thereunder, or in the
      exercise of any of its rights or powers, if it shall have reasonable
      grounds for believing that repayment of such funds or adequate indemnity
      against such risk or liability is not reasonably assured to it.

      (c) Whether or not therein expressly so provided, every provision of this
Agreement, the Pledge Agreement and the Remarketing Agreement relating to the
conduct or affecting the liability of or affording protection to the Stock
Purchase Contract Agent shall be subject to the provisions of this Article.

      (d) The Stock Purchase Contract Agent is authorized to execute and deliver
the Pledge Agreement and the Remarketing Agreement in its capacity as Stock
Purchase Contract Agent.

      Section 7.02 Notice of Default.

      Within 30 days after the occurrence of any default by the Company
hereunder of which a Responsible Officer of the Stock Purchase Contract Agent
has actual knowledge, the Stock Purchase Contract Agent shall transmit by mail
to the Company and the Holders of Common Equity Units, as their names and
addresses appear in the Security Register, notice of such default hereunder,
unless such default shall have been cured or waived.

      Section 7.03 Certain Rights of Stock Purchase Contract Agent.

      Subject to the provisions of Section 7.01:

      (a) the Stock Purchase Contract Agent may, in the absence of bad faith,
conclusively rely and shall be fully protected in acting or refraining from
acting upon any resolution, certificate, statement, instrument, opinion, report,
notice, request, direction, consent, order, bond,

                                       62

Trust Preferred Securities, note, other evidence of indebtedness or other paper
or document believed by it to be genuine and to have been signed or presented by
the proper party or parties;

      (b) any request or direction of the Company mentioned herein shall be
sufficiently evidenced by an Officers' Certificate, Issuer Order or Issuer
Request, and any resolution of the Board of Directors of the Company may be
sufficiently evidenced by a Board Resolution;

      (c) whenever in the administration of this Agreement, the Pledge Agreement
or the Remarketing Agreement the Stock Purchase Contract Agent shall deem it
desirable that a matter be proved or established prior to taking, suffering or
omitting to take any action hereunder, the Stock Purchase Contract Agent (unless
other evidence be herein specifically prescribed in this Agreement) may, in the
absence of bad faith on its part, conclusively rely upon an Officers'
Certificate of the Company;

      (d) the Stock Purchase Contract Agent may consult with counsel of its
selection and the advice of such counsel or any Opinion of Counsel shall be full
and complete authorization and protection in respect of any action taken,
suffered or omitted by it hereunder, or under the Pledge Agreement or the
Remarketing Agreement, in good faith and in reliance thereon;

      (e) the Stock Purchase Contract Agent shall not be bound to make any
investigation into the facts or matters stated in any resolution, certificate,
statement, instrument, opinion, report, notice, request, direction, consent,
order, bond, debenture, note, other evidence of indebtedness or other paper or
document, but the Stock Purchase Contract Agent may make reasonable further
inquiry or investigation into such facts or matters related to the execution,
delivery and performance of the Stock Purchase Contracts, and, if the Stock
Purchase Contract Agent makes such further inquiry or investigation, it shall be
entitled to examine the relevant books, records and premises of the Company,
personally or by agent or attorney;

      (f) the Stock Purchase Contract Agent may execute any of the powers
hereunder or perform any duties hereunder, or under the Pledge Agreement or the
Remarketing Agreement, either directly or by or through agents, attorneys,
custodians or nominees or an Affiliate and the Stock Purchase Contract Agent
shall not be responsible for any misconduct or negligence on the part of any
agent, attorney, custodian or nominee or an Affiliate appointed with due care by
it hereunder;

      (g) the Stock Purchase Contract Agent shall be under no obligation to
exercise any of the rights or powers vested in it by this Agreement at the
request or direction of any of the Holders pursuant to this Agreement, unless
such Holders shall have offered to the Stock Purchase Contract Agent security or
indemnity reasonably satisfactory to the Stock Purchase Contract Agent against
the costs, expenses and liabilities which might be incurred by it in compliance
with such request or direction;

      (h) the Stock Purchase Contract Agent shall not be liable for any action
taken, suffered, or omitted to be taken by it in the absence of bad faith or
negligence by it;

      (i) the Stock Purchase Contract Agent shall not be deemed to have notice
of any default hereunder unless a Responsible Officer of the Stock Purchase
Contract Agent has actual knowledge thereof or unless written notice of any
event that is in fact such a default is received

                                       63

by the Stock Purchase Contract Agent at the Corporate Trust Office of the Stock
Purchase Contract Agent, and such notice references the Common Equity Units and
this Agreement;

      (j) the Stock Purchase Contract Agent may request that the Company deliver
an Officers' Certificate setting forth the names of individuals and/or titles of
officers authorized at such time to take specified actions pursuant to this
Agreement, which Officers' Certificate may be signed by any person authorized to
sign an Officers' Certificate, including any person specified as so authorized
in any such certificate previously delivered and not superseded;

      (k) the rights, privileges, protections, immunities and benefits given to
the Stock Purchase Contract Agent, including, without limitation, its right to
be indemnified, are extended to, and shall be enforceable by, the Stock Purchase
Contract Agent in each of its capacities hereunder, and to each agent, custodian
and other Person employed to act hereunder;

      (l) the Stock Purchase Contract Agent shall not be required to initiate or
conduct any litigation or collection proceedings hereunder and shall have no
responsibilities with respect to any default hereunder except as expressly set
forth herein; and

      (m) In each case that the Stock Purchase Contract Agent may or is required
hereunder or under the Pledge Agreement or the Remarketing Agreement to take any
action, including without limitation to make any determination or judgment, to
give consents, to exercise rights, powers or remedies, or otherwise to act
hereunder or thereunder, the Stock Purchase Contract Agent may seek direction
from the Holders of at least a majority in number of the Outstanding Common
Equity Units. The Stock Purchase Contract Agent shall not be liable with respect
to any action taken or omitted to be taken by it in good faith in accordance
with the direction from the Holders of at least a majority in number of the
Outstanding Common Equity Units. If the Stock Purchase Contract Agent shall
request direction from the Holders of at least a majority in number of the
Outstanding Common Equity Units with respect to any action, the Stock Purchase
Contract Agent shall be entitled to refrain from such action unless and until
such the Stock Purchase Contract Agent shall have received direction from the
Holders of at least a majority in number of the Outstanding Common Equity Units,
and the Stock Purchase Contract Agent shall not incur liability to any Person by
reason of so refraining.

      Section 7.04 Not Responsible for Recitals or Issuance of Common Equity
Units.

      The recitals contained herein, in the Pledge Agreement, the Remarketing
Agreement and in the Certificates shall be taken as the statements of the
Company, and the Stock Purchase Contract Agent assumes no responsibility for
their accuracy or validity. The Stock Purchase Contract Agent makes no
representations as to the validity or sufficiency of either this Agreement or of
the Common Equity Units, or of the Pledge Agreement or the Pledge or the
Collateral and shall have no responsibility for perfecting or maintaining the
perfection of any security interest in the Collateral. The Stock Purchase
Contract Agent shall not be accountable for the use or application by the
Company of the proceeds in respect of the Stock Purchase Contracts.

                                       64

The Stock Purchase Contract Agent shall only be responsible for
transferring money, securities or other property in accordance with the terms
herein to the extent that such money, securities or other property are actually
received by the Stock Purchase Contract Agent.

      Section 7.05 May Hold Common Equity Units.

      Any Security Registrar or any other agent of the Company, or the Stock
Purchase Contract Agent and its Affiliates, in their individual or any other
capacity, may become the owner or pledgee of Common Equity Units and may
otherwise deal with the Company, the Collateral Agent or any other Person with
the same rights it would have if it were not Security Registrar or such other
agent, or the Stock Purchase Contract Agent. The Company may become the owner or
pledgee of Common Equity Units.

      Section 7.06 Money Held in Custody.

      Money held by the Stock Purchase Contract Agent in custody hereunder need
not be segregated from the Stock Purchase Contract Agent's other funds except to
the extent required by law or provided herein. The Stock Purchase Contract Agent
shall be under no obligation to invest or pay interest on any money received by
it hereunder except as otherwise provided hereunder or agreed in writing with
the Company.

      Section 7.07 Compensation and Reimbursement.

      The Company agrees:

      (a) to pay to the Stock Purchase Contract Agent compensation for all
services rendered by it hereunder, under the Pledge Agreement and under the
Remarketing Agreement as the Company and the Stock Purchase Contract Agent shall
from time to time agree in writing;

      (b) except as otherwise expressly provided for herein, to reimburse the
Stock Purchase Contract Agent upon its request for all reasonable expenses,
disbursements and advances incurred or made by the Stock Purchase Contract Agent
in accordance with any provision of this Agreement, the Pledge Agreement and the
Remarketing Agreement (including the reasonable compensation and the expenses
and disbursements of its agents and counsel) in connection with the negotiation,
preparation, execution and delivery and performance of this Agreement, the
Pledge Agreement and the Remarketing Agreement and any modification, supplement
or waiver of any of the terms thereof, except any such expense, disbursement or
advance as may be attributable to its negligence, willful misconduct or bad
faith; and

      (c) to indemnify the Stock Purchase Contract Agent and any predecessor
Stock Purchase Contract Agent (and each of its directors, officers, agents and
employees (collectively, the "Indemnitees") for, and to hold it harmless
against, any loss, claim, damage, fine, penalty, liability or expense (including
reasonable fees and expenses of counsel) incurred without negligence, willful
misconduct or bad faith on its part, arising out of or in connection with the
acceptance or administration of its duties hereunder and under the Pledge
Agreement and the Remarketing Agreement, including the Indemnitees' reasonable
costs and expenses of defending themselves against any claim (whether asserted
by the Company, a Holder or any other Person)

                                       65

or liability in connection with the exercise or performance of any of the Stock
Purchase Contract Agent's powers or duties hereunder or thereunder.

      The provisions of this Section shall survive the resignation or removal of
the Stock Purchase Contract Agent and the termination of this Agreement.

      Section 7.08 Corporate Stock Purchase Contract Agent Required,
Eligibility.

      There shall at all times be a Stock Purchase Contract Agent hereunder
which shall be a Person organized and doing business under the laws of the
United States of America, any State thereof or the District of Columbia,
authorized under such laws to exercise corporate trust powers, having (or being
a member of a bank holding company having) a combined capital and surplus of at
least $50,000,000, subject to supervision or examination by Federal or State
authority and having a corporate trust office in the Borough of Manhattan, New
York City, if there be such a Person in the Borough of Manhattan, New York City,
qualified and eligible under this Article VII and willing to act on reasonable
terms. If such Person publishes reports of condition at least annually, pursuant
to law or to the requirements of said supervising or examining authority, then
for the purposes of this Section, the combined capital and surplus of such
Person shall be deemed to be its combined capital and surplus as set forth in
its most recent report of condition so published. If at any time the Stock
Purchase Contract Agent shall cease to be eligible in accordance with the
provisions of this Section, it shall resign immediately in the manner and with
the effect hereinafter specified in this Article VII.

      Section 7.09 Resignation and Removal; Appointment of Successor.

      (a) No resignation or removal of the Stock Purchase Contract Agent and no
appointment of a successor Stock Purchase Contract Agent pursuant to this
Article VII shall become effective until the acceptance of appointment by the
successor Stock Purchase Contract Agent in accordance with the applicable
requirements of Section 7.10.

      (b) The Stock Purchase Contract Agent may resign at any time by giving
written notice thereof to the Company 30 days prior to the effective date of
such resignation. If the instrument of acceptance by a successor Stock Purchase
Contract Agent required by Section 7.10 shall not have been delivered to the
Stock Purchase Contract Agent within 30 days after the giving of such notice of
resignation, the resigning Stock Purchase Contract Agent may petition, at the
expense of the Company, any court of competent jurisdiction for the appointment
of a successor Stock Purchase Contract Agent.

      (c) The Stock Purchase Contract Agent may be removed at any time by Act of
the Holders of at least a majority in number of the Outstanding Common Equity
Units delivered to the Stock Purchase Contract Agent and the Company. If the
instrument of acceptance by a successor Stock Purchase Contract Agent required
by Section 7.10 shall not have been delivered to the Stock Purchase Contract
Agent within 30 days after such Act, the Stock Purchase Contract Agent being
removed may petition any court of competent jurisdiction for the appointment at
the expense of the Company of a successor Stock Purchase Contract Agent.

                                       66

(d) If at any time:

            (i) the Stock Purchase Contract Agent fails to comply with Section
      310(b) of the TIA, as if the Stock Purchase Contract Agent were an
      indenture trustee under an indenture qualified under the TIA, and shall
      fail to resign after written request therefor by the Company or by any
      Holder who has been a bona fide Holder of a Common Equity Unit for at
      least six months;

            (ii) the Stock Purchase Contract Agent shall cease to be eligible
      under Section 7.8 and shall fail to resign after written request therefor
      by the Company or by any such Holder; or

            (iii) the Stock Purchase Contract Agent shall become incapable of
      acting or shall be adjudged a bankrupt or insolvent or a receiver of the
      Stock Purchase Contract Agent or of its property shall be appointed or any
      public officer shall take charge or control of the Stock Purchase Contract
      Agent or of its property or affairs for the purpose of rehabilitation,
      conservation or liquidation, then, in any such case, (i) the Company by a
      Board Resolution may remove the Stock Purchase Contract Agent, or (ii) any
      Holder who has been a bona fide Holder of a Common Equity Unit for at
      least six months may, on behalf of himself and all others similarly
      situated, petition any court of competent jurisdiction for the removal of
      the Stock Purchase Contract Agent and the appointment of a successor Stock
      Purchase Contract Agent.

      (e) If the Stock Purchase Contract Agent shall resign, be removed or
become incapable of acting, or if a vacancy shall occur in the office of Stock
Purchase Contract Agent for any cause, the Company, by a Board Resolution, shall
promptly appoint a successor Stock Purchase Contract Agent and shall comply with
the applicable requirements of Section 7.10. If no successor Stock Purchase
Contract Agent shall have been so appointed by the Company and accepted
appointment in the manner required by Section 7.10, any Holder who has been a
bona fide Holder of a Common Equity Unit for at least six months, on behalf of
itself and all others similarly situated, or the Stock Purchase Contract Agent
may petition at the expense of the Company any court of competent jurisdiction
for the appointment of a successor Stock Purchase Contract Agent.

      (f) The Company shall give, or shall cause such successor Stock Purchase
Contract Agent to give, notice of each resignation and each removal of the Stock
Purchase Contract Agent and each appointment of a successor Stock Purchase
Contract Agent by mailing written notice of such event by first-class mail,
postage prepaid, to all Holders as their names and addresses appear in the
applicable Security Register. Each notice shall include the name of the
successor Stock Purchase Contract Agent and the address of its Corporate Trust
Office.

      Section 7.10 Acceptance of Appointment by Successor.

      (a) In case of the appointment hereunder of a successor Stock Purchase
Contract Agent, every such successor Stock Purchase Contract Agent so appointed
shall execute, acknowledge and deliver to the Company and to the retiring Stock
Purchase Contract Agent an instrument accepting such appointment, and thereupon
the resignation or removal of the retiring

                                       67

Stock Purchase Contract Agent shall become effective and such successor Stock
Purchase Contract Agent, without any further act, deed or conveyance, shall
become vested with all the rights, powers, agencies and duties of the retiring
Stock Purchase Contract Agent; but, on the request of the Company or the
successor Stock Purchase Contract Agent, such retiring Stock Purchase Contract
Agent shall, upon payment of its charges, execute and deliver an instrument
transferring to such successor Stock Purchase Contract Agent all the rights,
powers and trusts of the retiring Stock Purchase Contract Agent and duly assign,
transfer and deliver to such successor Stock Purchase Contract Agent all
property and money held by such retiring Stock Purchase Contract Agent
hereunder.

      (b) Upon request of any such successor Stock Purchase Contract Agent, the
Company shall execute any and all instruments for more fully and certainly
vesting in and confirming to such successor Stock Purchase Contract Agent all
such rights, powers and agencies referred to in subsection (a) of this Section.

      (c) No successor Stock Purchase Contract Agent shall accept its
appointment unless at the time of such acceptance such successor Stock Purchase
Contract Agent shall be qualified and eligible under this Article VII.

      (d) No successor Stock Purchase Contract Agent shall at the same time act
as the Collateral Agent, the Custodial Agent or the Securities Intermediary and
the Company shall not act as the Stock Purchase Contract Agent.

      Section 7.11 Merger, Conversion, Consolidation or Succession to Business.

      Any Person into which the Stock Purchase Contract Agent may be merged or
converted or with which it may be consolidated, or any Person resulting from any
merger, conversion or consolidation to which the Stock Purchase Contract Agent
shall be a party, or any Person succeeding to all or substantially all the
corporate trust business of the Stock Purchase Contract Agent, shall be the
successor of the Stock Purchase Contract Agent hereunder, provided that such
Person shall be otherwise qualified and eligible under this Article VII, without
the execution or filing of any paper or any further act on the part of any of
the parties hereto. In case any Certificates shall have been authenticated and
executed on behalf of the Holders, but not delivered, by the Stock Purchase
Contract Agent then in office, any successor by merger, conversion or
consolidation to such Stock Purchase Contract Agent may adopt such
authentication and execution and deliver the Certificates so authenticated and
executed with the same effect as if such successor Stock Purchase Contract Agent
had itself authenticated and executed such Common Equity Units.

      Section 7.12 Preservation of Information; Communications to Holders.

      (a) The Stock Purchase Contract Agent shall preserve, in as current a form
as is reasonably practicable, the names and addresses of Holders received by the
Stock Purchase Contract Agent in its capacity as Security Registrar.

      (b) If three or more Holders (herein referred to as "Applicants") apply in
writing to the Stock Purchase Contract Agent, and furnish to the Stock Purchase
Contract Agent reasonable proof that each such applicant has owned a Common
Equity Unit for a period of at least six

                                       68

months preceding the date of such application, and such application states that
the applicants desire to communicate with other Holders with respect to their
rights under this Agreement or under the Common Equity Units and is accompanied
by a copy of the form of proxy or other communication which such applicants
propose to transmit, then the Stock Purchase Contract Agent shall mail to all
the Holders copies of the form of proxy or other communication which is
specified in such request, with reasonable promptness after a tender to the
Stock Purchase Contract Agent of the materials to be mailed and of payment, or
provision for the payment, of the reasonable expenses of such mailing.

      Section 7.13 No Obligations of Stock Purchase Contract Agent.

      Except to the extent otherwise expressly provided in this Agreement, the
Stock Purchase Contract Agent assumes no obligations and shall not be subject to
any liability under this Agreement, the Pledge Agreement, the Remarketing
Agreement or any Stock Purchase Contract in respect of the obligations of the
Holder of any Common Equity Units thereunder. The Company agrees, and each
Holder of a Certificate, by its acceptance thereof, shall be deemed to have
agreed, that the Stock Purchase Contract Agent's execution of the Certificates
on behalf of the Holders shall be solely as agent and attorney-in-fact for the
Holders, and that the Stock Purchase Contract Agent shall have no obligation to
perform such Stock Purchase Contracts on behalf of the Holders, except to the
extent expressly provided in Article V hereof. Anything contained in this
Agreement to the contrary notwithstanding, in no event shall the Stock Purchase
Contract Agent or its officers, directors, employees or agents be liable under
this Agreement, the Pledge Agreement or the Remarketing Agreement to any third
party for indirect, incidental, special, punitive, or consequential loss or
damage of any kind whatsoever, including lost profits, whether or not the
likelihood of such loss or damage was known to the Stock Purchase Contract Agent
and regardless of the form of action.

      Section 7.14 Tax Compliance.

      (a) The Stock Purchase Contract Agent, on its own behalf and on behalf of
the Company, will comply with all applicable certification, information
reporting and withholding (including "backup" withholding) requirements imposed
by applicable tax laws, regulations or administrative practice with respect to
(i) any payments made with respect to the Common Equity Units or (ii) the
issuance, delivery, holding, transfer, redemption or exercise of rights under
the Common Equity Units. Such compliance shall include, without limitation, the
preparation and timely filing of required returns and the timely payment of all
amounts required to be withheld to the appropriate taxing authority or its
designated agent.

      (b) The Stock Purchase Contract Agent shall comply in accordance with the
terms hereof with any written direction received from the Company with respect
to the execution or certification of any required documentation and the
application of such requirements to particular payments or Holders or in other
particular circumstances, and may for purposes of this Agreement conclusively
rely on any such direction in accordance with the provisions of Section 7.01(a)
hereof.

      (c) The Stock Purchase Contract Agent shall maintain all appropriate
records documenting compliance with such requirements, and shall make such
records available, on

                                       69

written request, to the Company or its authorized representative within a
reasonable period of time after receipt of such request.

                                  ARTICLE VIII

                             SUPPLEMENTAL AGREEMENTS

      Section 8.01 Supplemental Agreements Without Consent of Holders.

      Without the consent of any Holders, the Company, when authorized by a
Board Resolution, and the Stock Purchase Contract Agent, at any time and from
time to time, may enter into one or more agreements supplemental hereto, in form
satisfactory to the Company and the Stock Purchase Contract Agent, to:

      (a) evidence the succession of another Person to the Company, and the
assumption by any such successor of the covenants of the Company herein and in
the Certificates;

      (b) add to the covenants of the Company for the benefit of the Holders, or
surrender any right or power herein conferred upon the Company;

      (c) evidence and provide for the acceptance of appointment hereunder by a
successor Stock Purchase Contract Agent;

      (d) make provision with respect to the rights of Holders pursuant to the
requirements of Section 5.04(b);

      (e) cure any ambiguity (or formal defect) or correct or supplement any
provisions herein which may be inconsistent with any other provisions herein; or

      (f) make any other provisions with respect to such matters or questions
arising under this Agreement, provided that such action shall not adversely
affect the interests of the Holders in any material respect.

      Section 8.02 Supplemental Agreements with Consent of Holders.

      With the consent of the Holders of not less than a majority in number of
the Outstanding Common Equity Units voting together as one class, including
without limitation the consent of the Holders obtained in connection with a
tender or an exchange offer, by Act of said Holders delivered to the Company and
the Stock Purchase Contract Agent, the Company, when duly authorized, and the
Stock Purchase Contract Agent may enter into an agreement or agreements
supplemental hereto for the purpose of modifying in any manner the terms of the
Stock Purchase Contracts, or the provisions of this Agreement or the rights of
the Holders in respect of the Common Equity Units; provided, however, that,
except as contemplated herein, no such supplemental agreement shall, without the
unanimous consent of the Holders of each Outstanding Common Equity Unit affected
thereby,

      (a) change any Payment Date;

                                       70

(b) change the amount or the type of Collateral required to be Pledged to
secure a Holder's obligations under the Stock Purchase Contract, impair the
right of the Holder of any Common Equity Unit to receive distributions on the
related Collateral or otherwise adversely affect the Holder's rights in or to
such Collateral or adversely alter the rights in or to such Collateral;

      (c) reduce any Contract Payments or change any place where, or the coin or
currency in which, any Contract Payment is payable;

      (d) impair the right to institute suit for the enforcement of any Stock
Purchase Contract or any Contract Payments;

      (e) reduce the number of shares of Common Stock or the amount of any other
property to be purchased pursuant to any Stock Purchase Contract, increase the
price to purchase shares of Common Stock or any other property upon settlement
of any Stock Purchase Contract or change the Stock Purchase Date or the right to
Early Settlement or Cash Merger Early Settlement or otherwise adversely affect
the Holder's rights under the Stock Purchase Contract; or

      (f) reduce the percentage of the Outstanding Common Equity Units the
consent of whose Holders is required for any modification or amendment to the
provisions of this Agreement, the Stock Purchase Contracts or the Pledge
Agreement;

provided that if any amendment or proposal referred to above would adversely
affect only the Normal Common Equity Units or the Stripped Common Equity Units,
then only the affected class of Holders as of the record date for the Holders
entitled to vote thereon will be entitled to vote on such amendment or proposal,
and such amendment or proposal shall not be effective except with the consent of
Holders of not less than a majority of such class; and provided, further, that
the unanimous consent of the Holders of each outstanding Common Equity Unit of
such class affected thereby shall be required to approve any amendment or
proposal specified in clauses (a) through (f) above.

      It shall not be necessary for any Act of Holders under this Section to
approve the particular form of any proposed supplemental agreement, but it shall
be sufficient if such Act shall approve the substance thereof.

      Section 8.03 Execution of Supplemental Agreements.

      In executing, or accepting the additional agencies created by, any
supplemental agreement permitted by this Article VIII or the modifications
thereby of the agencies created by this Agreement, the Stock Purchase Contract
Agent shall be provided, and (subject to Section 7.01) shall be fully authorized
and protected in relying upon, an Officers' Certificate and an Opinion of
Counsel each stating that the execution of such supplemental agreement is
authorized or permitted by this Agreement and that any and all conditions
precedent to the execution and delivery of such supplemental agreement have been
satisfied. The Stock Purchase Contract Agent may, but shall not be obligated to,
enter into any such supplemental agreement which affects the Stock Purchase
Contract Agent's own rights, duties or immunities under this Agreement or
otherwise.

                                       71

Section 8.04 Effect of Supplemental Agreements.

      Upon the execution of any supplemental agreement under this Article VIII,
this Agreement shall be modified in accordance therewith, and such supplemental
agreement shall form a part of this Agreement for all purposes; and every Holder
of Certificates theretofore or thereafter authenticated, executed on behalf of
the Holders and delivered hereunder, shall be bound thereby.

      Section 8.05 Reference to Supplemental Agreements.

      Certificates authenticated, executed on behalf of the Holders and
delivered after the execution of any supplemental agreement pursuant to this
Article VIII may, and shall if required by the Company, bear a notation in form
approved by the Company as to any matter provided for in such supplemental
agreement. If the Company shall so determine, new Certificates so modified as to
conform, in the opinion of the Company, to any such supplemental agreement may
be prepared and executed by the Company and authenticated, executed on behalf of
the Holders and delivered by the Stock Purchase Contract Agent in exchange for
outstanding Certificates.

                                   ARTICLE IX

              CONSOLIDATION, MERGER, CONVEYANCE, TRANSFER OR LEASE

      Section 9.01 Covenant Not to Consolidate, Merge, Convey, Transfer or Lease
Property Except under Certain Conditions.

      The Company covenants that it will not consolidate with, convert into, or
merge with and into, any other corporation or sell, assign, transfer, lease or
convey all or substantially all of its properties and assets to any Person,
unless:

      (a) either the Company shall be the continuing corporation, or the
successor (if other than the Company) shall be a corporation organized and
existing under the laws of the United States of America or a State thereof or
the District of Columbia and such corporation shall expressly assume all the
obligations of the Company under the Stock Purchase Contracts, this Agreement,
the Pledge Agreement, the Trust Agreements, and the Remarketing Agreement by one
or more supplemental agreements in form reasonably satisfactory to the Stock
Purchase Contract Agent and the Collateral Agent, executed and delivered to the
Stock Purchase Contract Agent and the Collateral Agent by such corporation; and

      (b) the Company or such successor corporation, as the case may be, shall
not, immediately after such consolidation, conversion, merger, sale, assignment,
transfer, lease or conveyance, be in default of payment obligations under the
Stock Purchase Contracts, this Agreement, the Pledge Agreement, either Trust
Agreement, or the Remarketing Agreement or in material default in the
performance of any other covenants under any of the foregoing agreements.

                                       72

Section 9.02 Rights and Duties of Successor Corporation.

      In case of any such merger, consolidation, share exchange, sale,
assignment, transfer, lease or conveyance and upon any such assumption by a
successor corporation in accordance with Section 9.01, such successor
corporation shall succeed to and be substituted for the Company with the same
effect as if it had been named herein as the Company. Such successor corporation
thereupon may cause to be signed, and may issue either in its own name or in the
name of the Company, any or all of the Certificates evidencing Common Equity
Units issuable hereunder which theretofore shall not have been signed by the
Company and delivered to the Stock Purchase Contract Agent; and, upon the order
of such successor corporation, instead of the Company, and subject to all the
terms, conditions and limitations in this Agreement prescribed, the Stock
Purchase Contract Agent shall authenticate and execute on behalf of the Holders
and deliver any Certificates which previously shall have been signed and
delivered by the officers of the Company to the Stock Purchase Contract Agent
for authentication and execution, and any Certificate evidencing Common Equity
Units which such successor corporation thereafter shall cause to be signed and
delivered to the Stock Purchase Contract Agent for that purpose. All the
Certificates issued shall in all respects have the same legal rank and benefit
under this Agreement as the Certificates theretofore or thereafter issued in
accordance with the terms of this Agreement as though all of such Certificates
had been issued at the date of the execution hereof.

      In case of any such merger, consolidation, share exchange, sale,
assignment, transfer, lease or conveyance, such change in phraseology and form
(but not in substance) may be made in the Certificates evidencing Common Equity
Units thereafter to be issued as may be appropriate.

      Section 9.03 Officers' Certificate and Opinion of Counsel Given to Stock
Purchase Contract Agent.

      The Stock Purchase Contract Agent, subject to Section 7.01 and Section
7.03, shall receive an Officers' Certificate and an Opinion of Counsel as
conclusive evidence that any such merger, consolidation, share exchange, sale,
assignment, transfer, lease or conveyance, and any such assumption, complies
with the provisions of this Article IX and that all conditions precedent to the
consummation of any such merger, consolidation, share exchange, sale,
assignment, transfer, lease or conveyance have been met.

                                   ARTICLE X

                                    COVENANTS

      Section 10.01 Performance Under Stock Purchase Contracts.

      The Company covenants and agrees for the benefit of the Holders from time
to time of the Common Equity Units that it will duly and punctually perform its
obligations under the Stock Purchase Contracts in accordance with the terms of
the Stock Purchase Contracts and this Agreement.

                                       73

Section 10.02 Maintenance of Office or Agency.

      The Company will maintain in the Borough of Manhattan, New York City an
office or agency where Certificates may be presented or surrendered for
acquisition of shares of Common Stock upon settlement of the Stock Purchase
Contracts either the Stock Purchase Date or upon Early Settlement or Cash Merger
Early Settlement and for transfer of Collateral upon occurrence of a Termination
Event, where Certificates may be surrendered for registration of transfer or
exchange, for a Collateral Substitution or recreation of Normal Common Equity
Units and where notices and demands to or upon the Company in respect of the
Common Equity Units and this Agreement may be served. The Company will give
prompt written notice to the Stock Purchase Contract Agent of the location, and
any change in the location, of such office or agency. The Company initially
designates the Corporate Trust Office of the Stock Purchase Contract Agent as
such office of the Company. If at any time the Company shall fail to maintain
any such required office or agency or shall fail to furnish the Stock Purchase
Contract Agent with the address thereof, such presentations, surrenders, notices
and demands may be made or served at the Corporate Trust Office, and the Company
hereby appoints the Stock Purchase Contract Agent as its agent to receive all
such presentations, surrenders, notices and demands.

      The Company may also from time to time designate one or more other offices
or agencies where Certificates may be presented or surrendered for any or all
purposes and may from time to time rescind such designations; provided, however,
that no such designation or rescission shall in any manner relieve the Company
of its obligation to maintain an office or agency in the Borough of Manhattan,
New York City for such purposes. The Company will give prompt written notice to
the Stock Purchase Contract Agent of any such designation or rescission and of
any change in the location of any such other office or agency. The Company
hereby designates as the place of payment for the Common Equity Units the
Corporate Trust Office and appoints the Stock Purchase Contract Agent at its
Corporate Trust Office as paying agent in such city.

      Section 10.03 Company to Reserve Common Stock.

      The Company shall at all times prior to the Subsequent Stock Purchase Date
reserve and keep available, free from preemptive rights, out of its authorized
but unissued Common Stock the full number of shares of Common Stock then
issuable against tender of payment in respect of all Stock Purchase Contracts
constituting a part of the Common Equity Units evidenced by Outstanding
Certificates.

      Section 10.04 Covenants as to Common Stock.

      The Company covenants that all shares of Common Stock which may be issued
against tender of payment in respect of any Stock Purchase Contract constituting
a part of the Outstanding Common Equity Units will, upon issuance, be duly
authorized, validly issued, fully paid and nonassessable.

      Section 10.05 Statements of Officers of the Company as to Default.

      The Company will deliver to the Stock Purchase Contract Agent, within 120
days after the end of each fiscal year of the Company ending after the date
hereof, an Officers' Certificate, stating whether or not to the knowledge of the
signers thereof the Company is in default in the

                                       74

performance and observance of any of the terms, provisions and conditions
hereof, and if the Company shall be in default, specifying all such defaults and
the nature and status thereof of which the Company have knowledge.

      Section 10.06 ERISA.

      Each Holder from time to time of the Common Equity Units that is a Plan or
who used assets of a Plan to purchase Common Equity Units hereby represents that
either (i) no portion of the assets used by such Holder to acquire the Normal
Common Equity Units constitutes assets of the Plan or (ii) the purchase or
holding of the Normal Common Equity Units by such purchaser or transferee will
not constitute a non-exempt prohibited transaction under Section 406 of ERISA or
Section 4975 of the Code or similar violation under any applicable laws.

      Section 10.07 Tax Treatment.

      (a) The Company covenants and agrees, for United States federal, state and
local income and franchise tax purposes, to (i) treat a Holder's acquisition of
the Normal Common Equity Units as the acquisition of the Trust Preferred
Securities and Stock Purchase Contract constituting the Normal Common Equity
Units and (ii) treat each Holder as the owner of the applicable interest in the
Collateral Account, including the Trust Preferred Securities or the Treasury
Securities.

      (b) Each Holder of Common Equity Units shall be deemed to have agreed, by
acceptance of Common Equity Units, and each Beneficial Owner shall be deemed to
have agreed, by acceptance of a beneficial interest in Common Equity Units, to
treat for all United States federal income tax purposes (i) MetLife Capital
Trust II and MetLife Capital Trust III as grantor trusts, (ii) itself as the
owner of the Stock Purchase Contracts and the related ownership interest in the
Trust Preferred Securities or Treasury Securities, as applicable, pledged under
the Pledge Agreement, (iii) the Debentures as indebtedness of the Company, and
(iv) the fair market value of each undivided beneficial interest in each
ownership interest in the Trust Preferred Securities included in each Normal
Common Equity Unit as $12.50 and the fair market value of each Stock Purchase
Contract as $0.

                        SIGNATURES ON THE FOLLOWING PAGE

                                       75

IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto have caused this Agreement to be
duly executed as of the day and year first above written.

                                            METLIFE, INC.

                                            By:  /s/ Joseph Prochaska, Jr.
                                               ---------------------------------
                                                Name:
                                                Title:

                                            J.P.MORGAN TRUST COMPANY,
                                                NATIONAL ASSOCIATION
                                                as Stock Purchase Contract Agent

                                            By:  /s/ Paul J. Schmalzel
                                               ---------------------------------
                                                Name:  Paul J. Schmalzel
                                                Title: Authorized Signer

                                       76

EXHIBIT A

             (FORM OF FACE OF NORMAL COMMON EQUITY UNIT CERTIFICATE)

      {For inclusion in Global Certificates only - THIS CERTIFICATE IS A GLOBAL
CERTIFICATE WITHIN THE MEANING OF THE STOCK PURCHASE CONTRACT AGREEMENT
HEREINAFTER REFERRED TO AND IS REGISTERED IN THE NAME OF CEDE & CO., AS THE
NOMINEE OF THE DEPOSITORY TRUST COMPANY, A NEW YORK CORPORATION (THE
"DEPOSITARY"), THE DEPOSITARY OR ANOTHER NOMINEE OF THE DEPOSITARY. THIS
CERTIFICATE IS EXCHANGEABLE FOR CERTIFICATES REGISTERED IN THE NAME OF A PERSON
OTHER THAN THE DEPOSITARY OR ITS NOMINEE ONLY IN THE LIMITED CIRCUMSTANCES
DESCRIBED IN THE STOCK PURCHASE CONTRACT AGREEMENT AND NO TRANSFER OF THIS
CERTIFICATE (OTHER THAN A TRANSFER OF THIS CERTIFICATE AS A WHOLE BY THE
DEPOSITARY TO A NOMINEE OF THE DEPOSITARY OR BY A NOMINEE OF THE DEPOSITARY TO
THE DEPOSITARY OR ANOTHER NOMINEE OF THE DEPOSITARY) MAY BE REGISTERED EXCEPT IN
LIMITED CIRCUMSTANCES.

      UNLESS THIS CERTIFICATE IS PRESENTED BY AN AUTHORIZED REPRESENTATIVE OF
THE DEPOSITARY FOR REGISTRATION OF TRANSFER, EXCHANGE OR PAYMENT, AND ANY
CERTIFICATE ISSUED IS REGISTERED IN THE NAME OF CEDE & CO. OR SUCH OTHER NAME AS
REQUESTED BY AN AUTHORIZED REPRESENTATIVE OF THE DEPOSITARY (AND ANY PAYMENT
HEREON IS MADE TO CEDE & CO. OR TO SUCH OTHER ENTITY AS IS REQUESTED BY AN
AUTHORIZED REPRESENTATIVE OF THE DEPOSITARY), ANY TRANSFER, PLEDGE OR OTHER USE
HEREOF FOR VALUE OR OTHERWISE BY OR TO ANY PERSON IS WRONGFUL SINCE THE
REGISTERED OWNER HEREOF, CEDE & CO., HAS AN INTEREST HEREIN.}

No. _________                                          CUSIP No.
Number of Normal Common Equity Units:  ___________________

                                  METLIFE, INC.
                           Normal Common Equity Units

      This Normal Common Equity Unit Certificate certifies that {Cede & Co.} is
the registered Holder of the number of Normal Common Equity Units set forth
above {for inclusion in Global Certificates only - or such other number of
Normal Common Equity Units reflected in the Schedule of Increases or Decreases
in the Global Certificate attached hereto}. Each Normal Common Equity Unit
consists of (i) prior to the Initial Stock Purchase Date a 1/80 beneficial
ownership interest of the Holder in one series A trust preferred security (the
"series A trust preferred securities") of MetLife Capital Trust II, a Delaware
statutory trust, subject to the Pledge of such interest in the series A trust
preferred security by such Holder pursuant to the Pledge Agreement, (ii) a 1/80
beneficial ownership interest of the Holder in one series B trust preferred
security (the "series B trust preferred security") of MetLife Capital Trust III,
a Delaware statutory trust, subject to the Pledge of such interest in the series
B trust preferred

                                      A-1

securities by such Holder pursuant to the Pledge Agreement, and (iii) one Stock
Purchase Contract with MetLife, Inc. (the "Company"). All capitalized terms used
herein which are defined in the Stock Purchase Contract Agreement (as defined on
the reverse hereof) have the meaning set forth therein.

      Pursuant to the Pledge Agreement, the Trust Preferred Securities,
constituting part of each Normal Common Equity Unit evidenced hereby have been
pledged to the Collateral Agent, for the benefit of the Company, to secure the
obligations of the Holder under the Stock Purchase Contract comprising part of
such Normal Common Equity Units.

      The Pledge Agreement provides that all distributions on any Pledged Trust
Preferred Securities constituting part of the Normal Common Equity Units
received by the Securities Intermediary shall be paid by wire transfer in same
day funds (i) in the case of (A) distributions on Pledged Trust Preferred
Securities to the Stock Purchase Contract Agent to the account designated by the
Stock Purchase Contract Agent, no later than 2:00 p.m., New York City time, on
the Business Day such payment is received by the Securities Intermediary
(provided that in the event such payment is received by the Securities
Intermediary on a day that is not a Business Day or after 12:30 p.m., New York
City time, on a Business Day, then such payment shall be made no later than
10:30 a.m., New York City time, on the next succeeding Business Day) and (ii) in
the case of payments with respect to the liquidation amount of the Pledged Trust
Preferred Securities, to the Company on the Stock Purchase Date (as described
herein) in accordance with the terms of the Pledge Agreement, in full
satisfaction of the respective obligations of the Holders of the Normal Common
Equity Units of which such Pledged Trust Preferred Securities are a part under
the Stock Purchase Contracts forming a part of such Normal Common Equity Units.
Distributions on the Trust Preferred Securities forming part of a Normal Common
Equity Unit evidenced hereby, which are payable quarterly in arrears on February
15, May 15, August 15, and November 15 of each year, commencing August 15, 2005
(a "Payment Date"), shall, subject to receipt thereof by the Stock Purchase
Contract Agent from the Securities Intermediary, be paid to the Person in whose
name this Normal Common Equity Unit Certificate (or a Predecessor Normal Common
Equity Unit Certificate) is registered at the close of business on the Record
Date for such Payment Date.

      Each Stock Purchase Contract evidenced hereby obligates the Holder of this
Normal Common Equity Unit Certificate to purchase, and the Company to sell, on
each of the Initial Stock Purchase Date and on the Subsequent Stock Purchase
Date, at a price equal to $12.50 (the "Purchase Price"), a number of newly
issued or treasury shares of common stock, par value $0.01 per share ("Common
Stock"), of the Company, per Normal Common Equity equal to the applicable
Settlement Rate, unless on or prior to the applicable Stock Purchase Date there
shall have occurred a Termination Event or an Early Settlement or Cash Merger
Early Settlement with respect to such Stock Purchase Contract, all as provided
in the Stock Purchase Contract Agreement and more fully described on the reverse
hereof. The Purchase Price for the shares of Common Stock purchased pursuant to
each Stock Purchase Contract evidenced hereby, if not paid earlier, shall be
paid on the applicable Stock Purchase Date by application of payment received in
respect of the liquidation amount with respect to any Pledged Trust Preferred
Securities pursuant to the Remarketing pledged to secure the obligations under
such Stock Purchase Contract of the Holder of the Normal Common Equity Units of
which such Stock Purchase Contract is a part.

                                      A-2

Each Stock Purchase Contract evidenced hereby obligates the holder to
agree, for United States federal, state and local income and franchise tax
purposes, to treat (i) itself as the owner of the Stock Purchase Contracts and
the related ownership interest in the Trust Preferred Securities pledged under
the Pledge Agreement, (ii) the Debentures as indebtedness of the Company, (iii)
MetLife Capital Trust II and MetLife Capital Trust III as grantor trusts and
(iv) the fair market value of each undivided beneficial interest in the Series A
Trust Preferred Securities as $12.50, the fair market value of each ownership
interest in the Series B Trust Preferred Securities as $12.50 and the fair
market value of the Stock Purchase Contract as $0.

      The Company shall pay, on each Payment Date, in respect of each Stock
Purchase Contract forming part of a Normal Common Equity Unit evidenced hereby,
an amount (the "Contract Payments") equal to (1) from and including the issue
date to but excluding the Initial Stock Purchase Date, at an annual rate of
1.510% of the Stated Amount and (2) from and including the initial stock
purchase date to but excluding the Subsequent Stock Purchase Date, at an annual
rate of 1.465% of the remaining Stated Amount, subject to its rights provided
for in the Stock Purchase Contract Agreement to defer Contract Payments. Such
Contract Payments shall be payable to the Person in whose name this Normal
Common Equity Unit Certificate is registered at the close of business on the
Record Date for such Payment Date.

      Distributions on the Trust Preferred Securities and the Contract Payments
will be payable at the office of the Stock Purchase Contract Agent in New York
City. If the book-entry system for the Normal Common Equity Units has been
terminated, the Contract Payments will be payable, at the option of the Company,
by check mailed to the address of the Person entitled thereto at such Person's
address as it appears on the Security Register, or by wire transfer to the
account designated by such Person by a prior written notice to the Stock
Purchase Contract Agent.

      Reference is hereby made to the further provisions set forth on the
reverse hereof, which further provisions shall for all purposes have the same
effect as if set forth at this place.

      Unless the certificate of authentication hereon has been executed by the
Stock Purchase Contract Agent by manual signature, this Normal Common Equity
Unit Certificate shall not be entitled to any benefit under the Pledge Agreement
or the Stock Purchase Contract Agreement or be valid or obligatory for any
purpose.

                                      A-3

IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the Company and the Holder specified above have caused
this instrument to be duly executed.

                                      METLIFE, INC.

                                      By: ______________________________________
                                          Name:
                                          Title:

                                      HOLDER SPECIFIED ABOVE (as to
                                      obligations of such Holder under the Stock
                                      Purchase Contracts)

                                      J.P. MORGAN TRUST COMPANY,
                                      NATIONAL ASSOCIATION, as attorney-
                                      in-fact of such Holder as Stock Purchase
                                      Contract Agent

                                      By: ______________________________________
                                          Name:
                                          Title:

Date: _________________

                                      A-4

CERTIFICATE OF AUTHENTICATION
                        OF STOCK PURCHASE CONTRACT AGENT

      This is one of the Normal Common Equity Unit Certificates referred to in
the within mentioned Stock Purchase Contract Agreement.

                                         By: J.P. MORGAN TRUST COMPANY, NATIONAL
                                             ASSOCIATION,

                                             as Stock Purchase Contract Agent

                                         By: ___________________________________
                                         Name:
                                         Title:

Date: ______________________

                                      A-5

(FORM OF REVERSE OF NORMAL COMMON EQUITY UNIT CERTIFICATE)

      Each Stock Purchase Contract evidenced hereby is governed by a Stock
Purchase Contract Agreement, dated as of June 21, 2005 (as may be supplemented
from time to time, the "STOCK PURCHASE CONTRACT AGREEMENT"), between the Company
and J.P. Morgan Trust Company, National Association, as Stock Purchase Contract
Agent (including its successors hereunder, the "STOCK PURCHASE CONTRACT AGENT"),
to which Stock Purchase Contract Agreement and supplemental agreements thereto
reference, is hereby made for a description of the respective rights,
limitations of rights, obligations, duties and immunities thereunder of the
Stock Purchase Contract Agent, the Company, and the Holders and of the terms
upon which the Normal Common Equity Unit Certificates are, and are to be,
executed and delivered.

      Each Stock Purchase Contract evidenced hereby obligates the Holder of this
Normal Common Equity Unit Certificate to purchase, and the Company to sell, on
each of the Initial Stock Purchase Date and on the Subsequent Stock Purchase
Date at a price equal to $12.50 (the "PURCHASE PRICE"), a number of shares of
newly issued or treasury shares of Common Stock per Common Equity Unit equal to
the applicable Settlement Rate, unless an Early Settlement, a Cash Merger Early
Settlement or a Termination Event with respect to the Common Equity Units of
which such Stock Purchase Contract is a part shall have occurred. The
"SETTLEMENT RATE" is equal to the sum of the Daily Amounts. The "DAILY AMOUNT"
for each Trading Day during the 20 consecutive Trading Days beginning on July 9,
2008 for the Initial Stock Purchase Date or the 20 consecutive Trading Days
beginning on January 7, 2009 for the Subsequent Stock Purchase Date (each, a
"DETERMINATION DATE") equals:

            (1) for each Determination Date on which the Closing Price for the
      Common Stock is less than or equal to $43.35 (the "REFERENCE PRICE"), a
      fraction of one share of Common Stock per Common Equity Unit equal to

                  1/20 times $12.50 divided by Reference Price,

            (2) for each Determination Date on which the Closing Price for the
      Common Stock is greater than the Reference Price but less than $53.10 (the
      "THRESHOLD APPRECIATION PRICE"), a fraction of one share of Common Stock
      per Common Equity Unit equal to

               1/20 times $12.50 divided by the Closing Price, and

            (3) for each Determination Date on which the Closing Price for the
      Common Stock is greater than or equal to the Threshold Appreciation Price,
      a fraction of one share of Common Stock per Common Equity Unit equal to

1/20 times $12.50 divided by Threshold Appreciation Price,

in each case subject to adjustment as provided in the Stock Purchase Contract
Agreement (and in each case rounded upward or downward to the nearest 1/10,000th
of a share).

                                      A-6

No fractional shares of Common Stock will be issued upon settlement of
Stock Purchase Contracts, as provided in Section 5.08 of the Stock Purchase
Contract Agreement.

      Each Stock Purchase Contract evidenced hereby, which is settled through
Early Settlement or Cash Merger Early Settlement, shall obligate the Holder of
the related Normal Common Equity Units to purchase at the Purchase Price, and
the Company to sell, a number of newly issued or treasury shares of Common Stock
equal to the Early Settlement Rate (in the case of an Early Settlement) or
applicable Settlement Rate (in the case of a Cash Merger Early Settlement).

      The "CLOSING PRICE" per share of Common Stock on any date of determination
means:

            (1) the closing sale price as of the close of the principal trading
      session (or, if no closing price is reported, the last reported sale
      price) per share on the New York Stock Exchange, Inc. (the "NYSE") on that
      date;

            (2) if Common Stock is not listed for trading on the NYSE on any
      such date, the closing sale price (or, if no closing price is reported,
      the last reported sale price) per share as reported in the composite
      transactions for the principal United States national or regional
      securities exchange on which Common Stock is so listed;

            (3) if Common Stock is not so listed on a United States national or
      regional securities exchange, the last closing sale price per share as
      reported by the Nasdaq Stock Market.;

            (4) if Common Stock is not so reported by the Nasdaq Stock Market,
      the last quoted bid price for the Common Stock in the over-the-counter
      market as reported by the PinkSheets LLC (formerly known as) National
      Quotation Bureau) or similar organization; or

            (5) if the bid price referred to above is not available, the market
      value of Common Stock on such date as determined by a nationally
      recognized independent investment banking firm retained by the Company for
      purposes of determining the Closing Price.

      A "TRADING DAY" means a day on which the Relevant Exchange is scheduled to
be open for business and a day on which there has not occurred or does not exist
a Market Disruption Event as provided by Section 5.01(a) of the Stock Purchase
Contract Agreement.

      In accordance with the terms of the Stock Purchase Contract Agreement, the
Holder of this Normal Common Equity Unit Certificate may pay the Purchase Price
for the shares of Common Stock purchased pursuant to each Stock Purchase
Contract evidenced hereby by effecting a Cash Settlement, an Early Settlement
or, if applicable, a Cash Merger Early Settlement or from the proceeds of or a
Remarketing of the related Pledged Trust Preferred Securities. A Holder of
Normal Common Equity Units who (1) does not, on or prior to 5:00 p.m. (New York
City time) on the fifth Business Day immediately preceding the applicable Stock
Purchase Date, notify the Stock Purchase Contract Agent of its intention to
effect a Cash

                                      A-7

Settlement, or who does so notify the Stock Purchase Contract Agent but fails to
make an effective Cash Settlement on or prior to 5:00 p.m. (New York City time)
on the fourth Business Day immediately preceding the Stock Purchase Date, or (2)
on or prior to 5:00 p.m. (New York City time) on the fifth Business Day prior to
the applicable Stock Purchase Date, does not make an effective Early Settlement,
shall pay the Purchase Price for the shares of Common Stock to be delivered
under the related Stock Purchase Contract from the proceeds of the sale of the
related Pledged Trust Preferred Securities held by the Collateral Agent in the
Remarketing unless the Holder has previously made a Cash Merger Early
Settlement. Such sale will be made by the Remarketing Agent pursuant to the
terms of the Remarketing Agreement on the applicable Remarketing Date.

      Upon the occurrence of a Failed Remarketing with respect to the Third
Remarketing Settlement Date for the Series A Trust Preferred Securities or a
Failed Remarketing with respect to the Third Remarketing Settlement Date for the
Series B Trust Preferred Securities, the Collateral Agent, for the benefit of
the Company, will exercise its rights as a secured party with respect to the
Pledged Trust Preferred Securities underlying the Normal Common Equity Units,
and may, among other things, (A) retain such Trust Preferred Securities in full
satisfaction of the Holders' obligations under the Stock Purchase Contracts or
(B) sell such Trust Preferred Securities in one or more public or private sales
or otherwise. In the event of a Failed Remarketing with respect to the Third
Remarketing Settlement Date for the Series A Trust Preferred Securities or a
Failed Remarketing with respect to the Third Remarketing Settlement Date for the
Series B Trust Preferred Securities, the Company will issue a note, payable on
August 15, 2010 and bearing interest at the rate of 4.91%, in the amount of any
accrued and unpaid distributions on such Pledged Trust Preferred Securities as
of February 15, 2009 or February 15, 2010, respectively, to the Stock Purchase
Contract Agent for delivery to the Holders of the related Trust Preferred
Securities.

      The Company shall not be obligated to issue any shares of Common Stock in
respect of a Stock Purchase Contract or deliver any certificates therefor to the
Holder unless it shall have received payment of the aggregate Purchase Price for
the shares of Common Stock to be purchased thereunder in the manner set forth in
the Stock Purchase Contract Agreement.

      Under the terms of the Pledge Agreement and the Stock Purchase Contract
Agreement, the Stock Purchase Contract Agent will be entitled to exercise the
voting and any other consensual rights pertaining to the Pledged Trust Preferred
Securities, but only to the extent instructed in writing by the Holders. Upon
receipt of notice of any meeting at which holders of Trust Preferred Securities
are entitled to vote or upon any solicitation of consents, waivers or proxies of
holders of Trust Preferred Securities, the Stock Purchase Contract Agent shall,
as soon as practicable thereafter, mail, first class, postage pre-paid, to the
Normal Common Equity Units Holders a notice:

            (1) containing such information as is contained in the notice or
      solicitation;

            (2) stating that each Holder on the record date set by the Stock
      Purchase Contract Agent therefor (which, to the extent possible, shall be
      the same date as the record date for determining the holders of Trust
      Preferred Securities, as the case may be, entitled to vote) shall be
      entitled to instruct the Stock Purchase Contract Agent as to the exercise
      of the

                                      A-8

voting rights pertaining to the Trust Preferred Securities underlying such
      Holder's Normal Common Equity Units; and

            (3) stating the manner in which such instructions may be given.

      Upon the written request of the Normal Common Equity Units Holders on such
record date received by the Stock Purchase Contract Agent at least six days
prior to such meeting, the Stock Purchase Contract Agent shall endeavor insofar
as practicable to vote or cause to be voted, in accordance with the instructions
set forth in such requests, the maximum aggregate liquidation amount of Trust
Preferred Securities, as the case may be, as to which any particular voting
instructions are received. In the absence of specific instructions from the
Holder of a Normal Common Equity Unit, the Stock Purchase Contract Agent shall
abstain from voting the Trust Preferred Securities evidenced by such Normal
Common Equity Units. The Company hereby agrees, if applicable, to solicit
Holders of Normal Common Equity Units to timely instruct the Stock Purchase
Contract Agent in order to enable the Stock Purchase Contract Agent to vote the
Trust Preferred Securities. The Holders of Normal Common Equity Units shall have
no voting or other rights in respect of Common Stock.

      Upon the occurrence of a Successful Remarketing, the Collateral Agent
shall, in accordance with the Pledge Agreement, cause the Securities
Intermediary to transfer the Pledged Trust Preferred Securities upon
confirmation of deposit by the Remarketing Agent of the proceeds of such
Successful Remarketing in the Collateral Account. The Remarketing Agent will
deduct a remarketing fee in accordance with the terms of the Remarketing
Agreement. With respect to Pledged Trust Preferred Securities upon a Successful
Remarketing, any proceeds of the Remarketing in excess of the aggregate Purchase
Price applicable to the related Normal Common Equity Units plus the portion of
the Remarketing Fee attributable to such Pledged Trust Preferred Securities will
be remitted to the Stock Purchase Contract Agent for payment to the Holders of
the related Normal Common Equity Units.

      The Normal Common Equity Unit Certificates are issuable only in registered
form and only in denominations of a single Normal Common Equity Unit and any
integral multiple thereof. The transfer of any Normal Common Equity Unit
Certificate will be registered and Normal Common Equity Unit Certificates may be
exchanged as provided in the Stock Purchase Contract Agreement. The Security
Registrar may require a Holder, among other things, to furnish appropriate
endorsements and transfer documents permitted by the Stock Purchase Contract
Agreement. No service charge shall be required for any such registration of
transfer or exchange, but the Company and the Stock Purchase Contract Agent may
require payment of a sum sufficient to cover any tax or other governmental
charge payable in connection therewith. A Holder who elects to substitute a
Treasury Security for a Trust Preferred Security, thereby creating Stripped
Common Equity Units, shall be responsible for any fees or expenses payable in
connection therewith. Except as provided in the Stock Purchase Contract
Agreement, for so long as the Stock Purchase Contract underlying a Normal Common
Equity Unit remains in effect, such Normal Common Equity Units shall not be
separable into its constituent parts, and the rights and obligations of the
Holder of such Normal Common Equity Units in respect of the Trust Preferred
Securities and Stock Purchase Contract constituting such Normal Common Equity
Units may be transferred and exchanged only as a Normal Common Equity Unit.

                                      A-9

Subject to the conditions set forth in the Stock Purchase Contract
Agreement, a Holder may, at any time on or prior to 5:00 p.m. (New York City
time) on the seventh Business Day immediately preceding any Remarketing
Settlement Date, effect a Collateral Substitution and separate the Pledged Trust
Preferred Securities from the related Stock Purchase Contracts in respect of all
or a portion of such Holder's Normal Common Equity Units by substituting for
such Pledged Trust Preferred Securities, Treasury Securities or portions thereof
in an aggregate liquidation amount at maturity equal to the aggregate
liquidation amount of such Pledged Trust Preferred Securities; provided that
Holders may make Collateral Substitutions only in integral multiples of 80
Normal Common Equity Units.

      The Company shall pay, on each Payment Date, the Contract Payments payable
in respect of each Stock Purchase Contract to the Person in whose name the
Normal Common Equity Unit Certificate evidencing such Stock Purchase Contract is
registered at the close of business on the Record Date for such Payment Date.
Contract Payments will be payable at the office of the Stock Purchase Contract
Agent in New York City. If the book-entry system for the Normal Common Equity
Units has been terminated, the Contract Payments will be payable, at the option
of the Company, by check mailed to the address of the Person entitled thereto at
such Person's address as it appears on the Security Register, or by wire
transfer to the account designated by such Person by a prior written notice to
the Stock Purchase Contract Agent.

      The Company shall have the right, at any time prior to the February 15,
2010, to defer the payment of any or all of the Contract Payments otherwise
payable on any Payment Date, but only if the Company shall give the Holders and
the Stock Purchase Contract Agent written notice of its election to defer each
such deferred Contract Payment pursuant to Section 5.11 of the Stock Purchase
Contract Agreement. Any Contract Payments so deferred shall, to the extent
permitted by law, accrue additional Contract Payments thereon at the rate of
6.375% per year (computed on the basis of a 360-day year of twelve 30-day
months), compounding on each succeeding Payment Date, until paid in full (such
deferred installments of Contract Payments, if any, together with the additional
Contract Payments, if any, accrued thereon, being referred to herein as the
"Deferred Contract Payments"). Deferred Contract Payments, if any, shall be due
on the next succeeding Payment Date except to the extent that payment is
deferred pursuant to the Section 5.11 of the Stock Purchase Contract Agreement.
No Contract Payments may be deferred to a date that is after the Stock Purchase
Date and no such deferral period may end other than on a Payment Date. If the
Stock Purchase Contracts are terminated upon the occurrence of a Termination
Event, the Holder's right to receive Contract Payments, if any, and any Deferred
Contract Payments, will terminate.

      The Stock Purchase Contracts and all obligations and rights of the Company
and the Holders thereunder, including, without limitation, the rights of the
Holders to receive and the obligation of the Company to pay any Contract
Payments, shall immediately and automatically terminate, without the necessity
of any notice or action by any Holder, the Stock Purchase Contract Agent or the
Company, if, on or prior to either Stock Purchase Date, a Termination Event
shall have occurred. Upon the occurrence of a Termination Event, the Company
shall promptly but in no event later than two Business Days thereafter give
written notice to the Stock Purchase Contract Agent, the Collateral Agent and
the Holders, at their addresses as they appear in the Security Register. Upon
and after the occurrence of a Termination Event, the Collateral Agent shall
release the Pledged Trust Preferred Securities from the Pledge in accordance
with the

                                      A-10

provisions of the Pledge Agreement. A Normal Common Equity Unit shall thereafter
represent the right to receive the Trust Preferred Securities forming a part of
such Normal Common Equity Units in accordance with the terms of, and except as
set forth in, the Stock Purchase Contract Agreement and the Pledge Agreement.

      Subject to and upon compliance with the provisions of the Stock Purchase
Contract Agreement, at the option of the Holder thereof, Stock Purchase
Contracts underlying Common Equity Units may be settled early ("EARLY
SETTLEMENT") at any time on or prior to 5:00 p.m. (New York City time) on the
fifth Business Day immediately preceding the Subsequent Stock Purchase Date as
provided in the Stock Purchase Contract Agreement. In order to exercise the
right to effect Early Settlement with respect to any Stock Purchase Contract
evidenced by this Certificate, the Holder of this Normal Common Equity Unit
Certificate shall deliver to the Stock Purchase Contract Agent at the Corporate
Trust Office prior to the time specified in the Stock Purchase Contract
Agreement an Election to Settle Early form set forth below duly completed and
accompanied by payment in the form of immediately available funds payable to the
order of the Company in an amount (the "EARLY SETTLEMENT AMOUNT") equal to the
sum of:

            (i) the product of (A) the Stated Amount times (B) the number of
      Stock Purchase Contracts with respect to which the Holder has elected to
      effect Early Settlement, plus

            (ii) if such delivery is made with respect to any Stock Purchase
      Contracts during the period from the close of business on any Record Date
      next preceding any Payment Date to the opening of business on such Payment
      Date, an amount equal to the Contract Payments payable on such Payment
      Date with respect to such Stock Purchase Contracts.

      Upon Early Settlement of Stock Purchase Contracts by a Holder of the
related Common Equity Units, the Pledged Trust Preferred Securities shall be
released from the Pledge as provided in the Pledge Agreement and the Holder
shall be entitled to receive a number of newly issued or treasury shares of
Common Stock adjusted in the same manner and at the same time as the Settlement
Rate is adjusted (the "EARLY SETTLEMENT RATE").

      Upon the occurrence of a Cash Merger, a Holder of Normal Common Equity
Units may effect Cash Merger Early Settlement of the Stock Purchase Contract
underlying such Normal Common Equity Units pursuant to the terms of Section
5.04(b)(ii) of the Stock Purchase Contract Agreement. Upon Cash Merger Early
Settlement of Stock Purchase Contracts by a Holder of the related Normal Common
Equity Units, the Pledged Trust Preferred Securities underlying such Normal
Common Equity Units shall be released from the Pledge as provided in the Pledge
Agreement.

      Upon registration of transfer of this Normal Common Equity Unit
Certificate, the transferee shall be bound (without the necessity of any other
action on the part of such transferee, except as may be required by the Stock
Purchase Contract Agent pursuant to the Stock Purchase Contract Agreement),
under the terms of the Stock Purchase Contract Agreement and the Stock Purchase
Contracts evidenced hereby and the transferor shall be released from the
obligations

                                      A-11

under the Stock Purchase Contracts evidenced by this Normal Common Equity Unit
Certificate. The Company covenants and agrees, and the Holder, by its acceptance
hereof, likewise covenants and agrees, to be bound by the provisions of this
paragraph.

      The Holder of this Normal Common Equity Unit Certificate, by its
acceptance hereof, irrevocably authorizes the Stock Purchase Contract Agent to
enter into and perform the related Stock Purchase Contracts forming part of the
Normal Common Equity Units evidenced hereby on its behalf as its
attorney-in-fact, expressly withholds any consent to the assumption (i.e.,
affirmance) of the Stock Purchase Contracts by the Company or its trustee in the
event that the Company becomes the subject of a case under the Bankruptcy Code,
agrees to be bound by the terms and provisions thereof, covenants and agrees to
perform its obligations under such Stock Purchase Contracts, consents to the
provisions of the Stock Purchase Contract Agreement, irrevocably authorizes the
Stock Purchase Contract Agent to enter into and perform the Stock Purchase
Contract Agreement and the Pledge Agreement on its behalf as its
attorney-in-fact, and consents to, and agrees to be bound by, the Pledge of such
Holder's right, title and interest in and to the Collateral Account, including
the Trust Preferred Securities underlying this Normal Common Equity Unit
Certificate pursuant to the Pledge Agreement. The Holder further covenants and
agrees that, to the extent and in the manner provided in the Stock Purchase
Contract Agreement and the Pledge Agreement, but subject to the terms thereof,
payments with respect to the aggregate liquidation amount of the Pledged Trust
Preferred Securities on the applicable Stock Purchase Date shall be paid by the
Collateral Agent to the Company in satisfaction of such Holder's obligations
under such Stock Purchase Contract and such Holder shall acquire no right, title
or interest in such payments.

      Subject to certain exceptions, the provisions of the Stock Purchase
Contract Agreement may be amended with the consent of the Holders of a majority
in number of the outstanding Common Equity Units.

      The Stock Purchase Contracts and Common Equity Units shall be governed by,
and construed in accordance with, the laws of the State of New York.

      Prior to due presentment of this Certificate for registration of transfer,
the Company, the Stock Purchase Contract Agent and its Affiliates and any agent
of the Company or the Stock Purchase Contract Agent may treat the Person in
whose name this Normal Common Equity Unit Certificate is registered as the owner
of the Normal Common Equity Units evidenced hereby for the purpose of receiving
distributions payable on the Trust Preferred Securities, receiving payments of
Contract Payments (subject to any applicable record date), performance of the
Stock Purchase Contracts and for all other purposes whatsoever, whether or not
any payments in respect thereof be overdue and notwithstanding any notice to the
contrary, and neither the Company, the Stock Purchase Contract Agent nor any
such agent shall be affected by notice to the contrary.

      The Stock Purchase Contracts shall not entitle the Holder to any of the
rights of a holder of shares of Common Stock.

      A copy of the Stock Purchase Contract Agreement is available for
inspection at the Corporate Trust Office.

                                      A-12

ABBREVIATIONS

      The following abbreviations, when used in the inscription on the face of
this instrument, shall be construed as though they were written out in full
according to applicable laws or regulations:

  TEN COM:            as tenants in common

  UNIF GIFT MIN ACT:  ______________ Custodian _____________  (cust)(minor)
                      Under Uniform Gifts to Minors Act of  --------------------

  TENANT:             as tenants by the entireties

  JT TEN:             as joint tenants with right of survivorship and not as
                      tenants in common

      Additional abbreviations may also be used though not in the above list.

      FOR VALUE RECEIVED, the undersigned hereby sell(s), assign(s) and
transfer(s) unto

________________________________________________________________________________

________________________________________________________________________________
                 (Please insert Social Security or Taxpayer I.D.
                    or other Identifying Number of Assignee)

________________________________________________________________________________

________________________________________________________________________________
  (Please print or type name and address including Postal Zip code of Assignee)

the within Normal Common Equity Unit Certificates and all rights thereunder,
hereby irrevocably constituting and appointing attorney __________________, to
transfer said Normal Common Equity Unit Certificates on the books of the
Security Registrar, with full power of substitution in the premises.

  Dated:                                Signature ______________________________
                                        NOTICE: The signature to this assignment
                                        must correspond with the name as it
                                        appears upon the face of the within
                                        Normal Common Equity Unit Certificates
                                        in every particular, without alteration
                                        or enlargement or any change whatsoever.

  Signature Guarantee: _________________________________________________________

                                      A-13

SETTLEMENT INSTRUCTIONS

      The undersigned Holder directs that a certificate for shares of Common
Stock deliverable upon settlement on or after the {Initial} {Subsequent} Stock
Purchase Date of the Stock Purchase Contracts underlying the number of Normal
Common Equity Units evidenced by this Normal Common Equity Unit Certificate be
registered in the name of, and delivered, together with a check in payment for
any fractional share, to the undersigned at the address indicated below unless a
different name and address have been indicated below. If shares are to be
registered in the name of a Person other than the undersigned, the undersigned
will pay any transfer tax payable incident thereto.

  Dated:
                                             ___________________________________
                                             Signature

                                             Signature Guarantee: ______________
                                             (if assigned to another person)

  If shares are to be registered in the        REGISTERED HOLDER
  name of and delivered to a Person other
  than the Holder, please (i) print such       Please print name and address of
  Person's name and address and (ii)           Registered Holder:
  provide a guarantee of your signature:

____________________________                   _________________________________
  Name                                           Name

____________________________                   _________________________________
  Address                                        Address

____________________________                   _________________________________

____________________________                   _________________________________

____________________________
  Social Security or other Taxpayer
  Identification Number, if any

                                      A-14

ELECTION TO SETTLE EARLY/CASH MERGER EARLY SETTLEMENT

      The undersigned Holder of this Normal Common Equity Unit Certificate
hereby irrevocably exercises the option to effect {Early Settlement} {Cash
Merger Early Settlement following a Cash Merger} in accordance with the terms of
the Stock Purchase Contract Agreement with respect to the Stock Purchase
Contracts underlying the number of Normal Common Equity Units evidenced by this
Normal Common Equity Unit Certificate specified below. The undersigned Holder
directs that a certificate for shares of Common Stock or other securities
deliverable upon such {Early Settlement} {Cash Merger Early Settlement} be
registered in the name of, and delivered, together with a check in payment for
any fractional share and any Normal Common Equity Unit Certificate representing
any Normal Common Equity Units evidenced hereby as to which {Early Settlement}
{Cash Merger Early Settlement} of the related Stock Purchase Contracts is not
effected, to the undersigned at the address indicated below unless a different
name and address have been indicated below. Pledged Trust Preferred Securities
deliverable upon such {Early Settlement} {Cash Merger Early Settlement} will be
transferred in accordance with the transfer instructions set forth below. If
shares are to be registered in the name of a Person other than the undersigned,
the undersigned will pay any transfer tax payable incident thereto.

  Dated:                                         Signature _____________________

  Signature Guarantee: _________________________________________________________

      Number of Common Equity Units evidenced hereby as to which {Early
Settlement} {Cash Merger Early Settlement} of the related Stock Purchase
Contracts is being elected:

If shares of Common Stock or Normal Common      REGISTERED HOLDER
Equity Unit Certificates are to be
registered in the name of and delivered to
and Pledged Trust Preferred Securities are
to be transferred to a Person other than
the Holder, please print such Person's
name and address:

                                                Please print name and address of
                                                Registered Holder:

_______________________________                 ________________________________
  Name                                            Name

_______________________________                 ________________________________
  Address                                         Address

_______________________________                 ________________________________

_______________________________                 ________________________________

_______________________________                 ________________________________

  Social Security or other Taxpayer

                                      A-15

Identification Number, if any

      Transfer Instructions for Pledged Trust Preferred Securities transferable
upon {Early Settlement} {Cash Merger Early Settlement} or a Termination Event:

                                      A-16

{TO BE ATTACHED TO GLOBAL CERTIFICATES}

            SCHEDULE OF INCREASES OR DECREASES IN GLOBAL CERTIFICATE

 The following increases or decreases in this Global Certificate have been made:

Amount of increase                               Number of Normal
               in Number of Normal    Amount of decrease in     Common Equity Units
               Common Equity Units      Number of Normal         evidenced by this         Signature of
                 evidenced by the      Common Equity Units      Global Certificate     authorized signatory
                   Date Global          evidenced by the          following such         of Stock Purchase
Date               Certificate         Global Certificate      decrease or increase       Contract Agent

A-17

EXHIBIT B

            (FORM OF FACE OF STRIPPED COMMON EQUITY UNIT CERTIFICATE)

      {For inclusion in Global Certificate only - THIS CERTIFICATE IS A GLOBAL
CERTIFICATE WITHIN THE MEANING OF THE STOCK PURCHASE CONTRACT AGREEMENT
HEREINAFTER REFERRED TO AND IS REGISTERED IN THE NAME OF CEDE & CO., AS NOMINEE
OF THE DEPOSITORY TRUST COMPANY, A NEW YORK CORPORATION (THE "DEPOSITARY"), THE
DEPOSITARY OR ANOTHER NOMINEE OF THE DEPOSITARY. THIS CERTIFICATE IS
EXCHANGEABLE FOR CERTIFICATES REGISTERED IN THE NAME OF A PERSON OTHER THAN THE
DEPOSITARY OR ITS NOMINEE ONLY IN THE LIMITED CIRCUMSTANCES DESCRIBED IN THE
PURCHASE CONTRACT AGREEMENT AND NO TRANSFER OF THIS CERTIFICATE (OTHER THAN A
TRANSFER OF THIS CERTIFICATE AS A WHOLE BY THE DEPOSITARY TO A NOMINEE OF THE
DEPOSITARY OR BY A NOMINEE OF THE DEPOSITARY TO THE DEPOSITARY OR ANOTHER
NOMINEE OF THE DEPOSITARY) MAY BE REGISTERED EXCEPT IN LIMITED CIRCUMSTANCES.

      UNLESS THIS CERTIFICATE IS PRESENTED BY AN AUTHORIZED REPRESENTATIVE OF
THE DEPOSITARY FOR REGISTRATION OF TRANSFER, EXCHANGE OR PAYMENT, AND ANY
CERTIFICATE ISSUED IS REGISTERED IN THE NAME OF CEDE & CO. OR SUCH OTHER NAME AS
REQUESTED BY AN AUTHORIZED REPRESENTATIVE OF THE DEPOSITARY (AND ANY PAYMENT
HEREON IS MADE TO CEDE & CO. OR TO SUCH OTHER ENTITY AS IS REQUESTED BY AN
AUTHORIZED REPRESENTATIVE OF THE DEPOSITARY), ANY TRANSFER, PLEDGE OR OTHER USE
HEREOF FOR VALUE OR OTHERWISE BY OR TO ANY PERSON IS WRONGFUL SINCE THE
REGISTERED OWNER HEREOF, CEDE & CO., HAS AN INTEREST HEREIN.}

No. _________                                             CUSIP No.
Number of Stripped Common Equity Units:  ___________________

                                  METLIFE, INC.
                          Stripped Common Equity Units

      This Stripped Common Equity Unit Certificate certifies that {Cede & Co.}
is the registered Holder of the number of Stripped Common Equity Units set forth
above {for inclusion in Global Certificates only - or such other number of
Stripped Common Equity Units reflected in the Schedule of Increases or Decreases
in the Global Certificate attached hereto}. Each Stripped Common Equity Unit
consists of (i) prior to the Initial Stock Purchase Date, a 1/80 undivided
beneficial ownership interest of a Treasury Security that matures as of the
Applicable Remarketing Settlement Date having a principal amount at maturity
equal to $1,000, subject to the Pledge of such interest in the Treasury Security
by such Holder pursuant to the Pledge Agreement, (ii) a 1/80 undivided
beneficial ownership interest of a Treasury Security that matures as of the
Applicable Remarketing Settlement Date for the Series B Trust Preferred
Securities, with a principal amount at maturity of $1,000 subject to the Pledge
of such Treasury Security by such Holder pursuant to the Pledge Agreement, and
(iii) the rights and obligations of the Holder under one Stock Purchase Contract
with MetLife, Inc, a Delaware corporation (the

                                      B-1

"COMPANY"). All capitalized terms used herein which are defined in the Stock
Purchase Contract Agreement (as defined on the reverse hereof) have the meaning
set forth therein.

      Pursuant to the Pledge Agreement, the Treasury Securities constituting
part of each Stripped Common Equity Unit evidenced hereby have been pledged to
the Collateral Agent, for the benefit of the Company, to secure the obligations
of the Holder under the Stock Purchase Contract comprising part of such Stripped
Common Equity Units.

      Each Stock Purchase Contract evidenced hereby obligates the Holder of this
Normal Common Equity Unit Certificate to purchase, and the Company to sell, on
each of the Initial Stock Purchase Date and on the Subsequent Stock Purchase
Date, at a price equal to $12.50 (the "Purchase Price"), a number of newly
issued or treasury shares of common stock, par value $0.01 per share ("Common
Stock"), of the Company, equal to the applicable Settlement Rate, unless on or
prior to the applicable Stock Purchase Date there shall have occurred a
Termination Event or an Early Settlement or Cash Merger Early Settlement with
respect to such Stock Purchase Contract, all as provided in the Stock Purchase
Contract Agreement and more fully described on the reverse hereof. The Purchase
Price for the shares of Common Stock purchased pursuant to each Stock Purchase
Contract evidenced hereby, if not paid earlier, shall be paid on the applicable
Stock Purchase Date by application of the proceeds from the Treasury Securities
at maturity pledged to secure the obligations of the Holder under such Stock
Purchase Contract of the Stripped Common Equity Units of which such Stock
Purchase Contract is a part.

      Each Stock Purchase Contract evidenced hereby obligates the holder to
agree, for United States federal, state and local income and franchise tax
purposes, (i) to treat itself as the owner of the Stock Purchase Contracts and
the related ownership interest in the Treasury Securities pledged under the
Pledge Agreement, and (ii) the fair market value of each Stock Purchase Contract
as $0.

      The Company shall pay, on each Payment Date, in respect of each Stock
Purchase Contract forming part of a Stripped Common Equity Unit evidenced
hereby, an amount (the "CONTRACT PAYMENTS") equal to (1) from and including the
issue date to but excluding the Initial Stock Purchase Date, at an annual rate
of 1.510% of the Stated Amount and (2) from and including the initial stock
purchase date to but excluding the Subsequent Stock Purchase Date, at an annual
rate of 1.465% of the remaining Stated Amount, subject to its rights provided
for in the Stock Purchase Contract Agreement to defer Contract Payments. Such
Contract Payments shall be payable to the Person in whose name this Stripped
Common Equity Unit Certificate is registered at the close of business on the
Record Date for such Payment Date.

      Contract Payments will be payable at the office of the Stock Purchase
Contract Agent in New York City. If the book-entry system for the Stripped
Common Equity Units has been terminated, the Contract Payments will be payable,
at the option of the Company, by check mailed to the address of the Person
entitled thereto at such Person's address as it appears on the Security
Register, or by wire transfer to the account designated by such Person by a
prior written notice to the Stock Purchase Contract Agent.

      Reference is hereby made to the further provisions set forth on the
reverse hereof, which further provisions shall for all purposes have the same
effect as if set forth at this place.

                                      B-2

Unless the certificate of authentication hereon has been executed by the
Stock Purchase Contract Agent by manual signature, this Stripped Common Equity
Unit Certificate shall not be entitled to any benefit under the Pledge Agreement
or the Stock Purchase Contract Agreement or be valid or obligatory for any
purpose.

      IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the Company and the Holder specified above have caused
this instrument to be duly executed.

                                            METLIFE, INC.

                                            By: ________________________________
                                            Name:
                                            Title:

                                            HOLDER SPECIFIED ABOVE (as to
                                            obligations of such Holder under the
                                            Stock Purchase Contracts)

                                            By: J.P. MORGAN TRUST COMPANY,
                                                NATIONAL ASSOCIATION, as
                                                attorney-in-fact of such Holder
                                                as Stock Purchase Contract Agent

                                            By: ________________________________
                                            Name:
                                            Title:

Date: _____________________

                                      B-3

CERTIFICATE OF AUTHENTICATION OF
                          STOCK PURCHASE CONTRACT AGENT

      This is one of the Stripped Common Equity Units referred to in the
within-mentioned Stock Purchase Contract Agreement.

                               J. P. Morgan Trust Company, National Association,

                               as Stock Purchase Contract Agent

                               By: _____________________________________________
                               Name:
                               Title:

                               Dated: __________________________________________

                                      B-4

(FORM OF REVERSE OF STRIPPED COMMON EQUITY UNIT CERTIFICATE)

      Each Stock Purchase Contract evidenced hereby is governed by a Stock
Purchase Contract Agreement, dated as of June 21, 2005 (as may be supplemented
from time to time, the "STOCK PURCHASE CONTRACT AGREEMENT"), between the Company
and J.P. Morgan Trust Company, National Association, as Stock Purchase Contract
Agent (including its successors hereunder, the "STOCK PURCHASE CONTRACT AGENT"),
to which Stock Purchase Contract Agreement and supplemental agreements thereto
reference, is hereby made for a description of the respective rights,
limitations of rights, obligations, duties and immunities thereunder of the
Stock Purchase Contract Agent, the Company, and the Holders and of the terms
upon which the Stripped Common Equity Unit Certificates are, and are to be,
executed and delivered.

      Each Stock Purchase Contract evidenced hereby obligates the Holder of this
Normal Common Equity Unit Certificate to purchase, and the Company to sell, on
each of the Initial Stock Purchase Date and on the Subsequent Stock Purchase
Date at a price equal to $12.50 (the "PURCHASE PRICE"), a number newly issued or
treasury shares of Common Stock per Common Equity Unit equal to the applicable
Settlement Rate, unless an Early Settlement, a Cash Merger Early Settlement or a
Termination Event with respect to the Common Equity Units of which such Stock
Purchase Contract is a part shall have occurred. The "SETTLEMENT RATE" is equal
to the sum of the Daily Amounts. The "DAILY AMOUNT" for each Trading Day during
the 20 consecutive Trading Days beginning on July 9, 2008 for the Initial Stock
Purchase Date or the 20 consecutive Trading Days beginning on January 7, 2009
for the Subsequent Stock Purchase Date (each, a "DETERMINATION DATE") equals:

            (1) for each Determination Date on which the Closing Price for the
      Common Stock is less than or equal to $43.35 (the "REFERENCE PRICE), a
      fraction of one share of Common Stock per Common Equity Unit equal to

                1/20 times $12.50 divided by the Reference Price,

            (2) for each Determination Date on which the Closing Price for the
      Common Stock is greater than the Reference Price but less than $53.10(the
      "THRESHOLD APPRECIATION PRICE"), a fraction of one share of Common Stock
      per Common Equity Unit equal to

            1/20 times $12.50 divided by the Closing Price, and

            (3) for each Determination Date on which the Closing Price for the
      Common Stock is greater than or equal to the Threshold Appreciation Price,
      a fraction of one share of Common Stock per Common Equity Unit equal to

         1/20 times $12.50 divided by the Threshold Appreciation Price,

in each case subject to adjustment as provided in the Stock Purchase Contract
Agreement (and in each case rounded upward or downward to the nearest 1/10,000th
of a share).

                                      B-5

No fractional shares of Common Stock will be issued upon settlement of
Stock Purchase Contracts, as provided in Section 5.08 of the Stock Purchase
Contract Agreement.

      Each Stock Purchase Contract evidenced hereby, which is settled through
Early Settlement or Cash Merger Early Settlement, shall obligate the Holder of
the related Stripped Common Equity Units to purchase at the Purchase Price, and
the Company to sell, a number of newly issued or treasury shares of Common Stock
equal to the Early Settlement Rate (in the case of an Early Settlement) or
applicable Settlement Rate (in the case of a Cash Merger Early Settlement).

      The "CLOSING PRICE" per share of Common Stock on any date of determination
means:

            (1) the closing sale price as of the close of the principal trading
      session (or, if no closing price is reported, the last reported sale
      price) per share on the New York Stock Exchange, Inc. (the "NYSE") on such
      date;

            (2) if Common Stock is not listed for trading on the NYSE on any
      such date, the closing sale price (or, if no closing price is reported,
      the last reported sale price) per share as reported in the composite
      transactions for the principal United States national or regional
      securities exchange on which Common Stock is so listed;

            (3) if Common Stock is not so listed on a United States national or
      regional securities exchange, the last closing sale price per share as
      reported by the Nasdaq Stock Market;

            (4) if Common Stock is not so reported by the Nasdaq Stock Market,
      the last quoted bid price for the Common Stock in the over-the-counter
      market as reported by PinkSheets LLC (formerly known as the National
      Quotation Bureau) or similar organization; or

            (5) if the bid price referred to above is not available, the market
      value of the Common Stock on such date as determined by a nationally
      recognized independent investment banking firm retained by the Company for
      purposes of determining the Closing Price.

      A "TRADING DAY" means a day on which the Relevant Exchange is scheduled to
be open for business and a day on which there has not occurred or does not exist
a Market Disruption Event as provided by Section 5.01(a) of the Stock Purchase
Contract Agreement.

      In accordance with the terms of the Stock Purchase Contract Agreement, the
Holder of this Stripped Common Equity Units shall pay the Purchase Price for the
shares of the Common Stock purchased pursuant to each Stock Purchase Contract
evidenced hereby either by effecting an Early Settlement or, if applicable, a
Cash Merger Early Settlement of each such Stock Purchase Contract or by applying
a principal amount of the Pledged Treasury Securities underlying such Holder's
Stripped Common Equity Units equal to the Stated Amount of such Stock Purchase
Contract to the purchase of the Common Stock. A Holder of Stripped Common Equity
Units who (1) on or prior to 5:00 p.m. (New York City time) on the fifth
Business Day

                                      B-6

prior to the Stock Purchase Date, does not make an effective Early Settlement or
(2) on or prior to 5:00 p.m. (New York City time) on the fifth Business Day
prior to the Stock Purchase Date, does not make an effective Cash Merger Early
Settlement, shall pay the Purchase Price for the shares of Common Stock to be
issued under the related Stock Purchase Contract from the proceeds of the
Pledged Treasury Securities.

      The Company shall not be obligated to issue any shares of Common Stock in
respect of a Stock Purchase Contract or deliver any certificates therefor to the
Holder unless it shall have received payment of the aggregate purchase price for
the shares of Common Stock to be purchased thereunder in the manner set forth in
the Stock Purchase Contract Agreement.

      The Stripped Common Equity Unit Certificates are issuable only in
registered form and only in denominations of a single Stripped Common Equity
Unit and any integral multiple thereof. The transfer of any Stripped Common
Equity Unit Certificate will be registered and Stripped Common Equity Unit
Certificates may be exchanged as provided in the Stock Purchase Contract
Agreement. The Security Registrar may require a Holder, among other things, to
furnish appropriate endorsements and transfer documents permitted by the Stock
Purchase Contract Agreement. No service charge shall be required for any such
registration of transfer or exchange, but the Company and the Stock Purchase
Contract Agent may require payment of a sum sufficient to cover any tax or other
governmental charge payable in connection therewith. A Holder who elects to
substitute Trust Preferred Securities for Treasury Securities, thereby
recreating Normal Common Equity Units, shall be responsible for any fees or
expenses associated therewith. Except as provided in the Stock Purchase Contract
Agreement, for so long as the Stock Purchase Contract underlying a Stripped
Common Equity Unit remains in effect, such Stripped Common Equity Units shall
not be separable into its constituent parts, and the rights and obligations of
the Holder of such Stripped Common Equity Units in respect of the Treasury
Security and the Stock Purchase Contract constituting such Stripped Common
Equity Units may be transferred and exchanged only as a Stripped Common Equity
Unit.

      Subject to the conditions set forth in the Stock Purchase Contract
Agreement, a Holder of Stripped Common Equity Units may recreate, at any time on
or prior to 5:00 p.m. (New York City time) on the seventh Business Day
immediately preceding any Remarketing Settlement Date, Normal Common Equity
Units by delivering to the Securities Intermediary (1) prior to the Initial
Stock Purchase Date, Series A Trust Preferred Securities and Series B Trust
Preferred Securities and (2) and after the Initial Stock Purchase Date, Series B
Trust Preferred Securities, in each case with an aggregate liquidation amount,
equal to the aggregate principal amount at maturity of the corresponding Pledged
Treasury Securities in exchange for the release of such Pledged Treasury
Securities in accordance with the terms of the Stock Purchase Contract Agreement
and the Pledge Agreement. From and after such substitution, the Holder's Common
Equity Units shall be referred to as a "NORMAL COMMON EQUITY UNITS." Any such
creation of Normal Common Equity Units may be effected only in multiples of 80
Stripped Common Equity Units for 80 Normal Common Equity Units.

      The Company shall pay, on each Payment Date, the Contract Payments (net of
any withholding tax imposed on such payments, which shall be remitted to the
appropriate taxing jurisdiction) payable in respect of each Stock Purchase
Contract to the Person in whose name the Stripped Common Equity Unit Certificate
evidencing such Stock Purchase Contract is registered

                                      B-7

at the close of business on the Record Date for such Payment Date. Contract
Payments will be payable at the office of the Stock Purchase Contract Agent in
New York City. If the book-entry system for the Normal Common Equity Units has
been terminated, the Contract Payments will be payable, at the option of the
Company, by check mailed to the address of the Person entitled thereto at such
Person's address as it appears on the Security Register, or by wire transfer to
the account designated by such Person by a prior written notice to the Stock
Purchase Contract Agent.

      The Company shall have the right, at any time prior to February 15, 2010,
to defer the payment of any or all of the Contract Payments otherwise payable on
any Payment Date, but only if the Company shall give the Holders and the Stock
Purchase Contract Agent written notice of its election to defer each such
deferred Contract Payment pursuant to Section 5.11 of the Stock Purchase
Contract Agreement. Any Contract Payments so deferred shall, to the extent
permitted by law, accrue additional Contract Payments thereon at the rate of
6.375% per year (computed on the basis of a 360-day year of twelve 30-day
months), compounding on each succeeding Payment Date, until paid in full (such
deferred installments of Contract Payments, if any, together with the additional
Contract Payments, if any, accrued thereon, being referred to herein as the
"Deferred Contract Payments"). Deferred Contract Payments, if any, shall be due
on the next succeeding Payment Date except to the extent that payment is
deferred pursuant to the Section 5.11 of the Stock Purchase Contract Agreement.
No Contract Payments may be deferred to a date that is after the Stock Purchase
Date and no such deferral period may end other than on a Payment Date. If the
Stock Purchase Contracts are terminated upon the occurrence of a Termination
Event, the Holder's right to receive Contract Payments, if any, and any Deferred
Contract Payments, will terminate.

      The Stock Purchase Contracts and all obligations and rights of the Company
and the Holders thereunder, including, without limitation, the rights of the
Holders to receive and the obligation of the Company to pay any Contract
Payments, shall immediately and automatically terminate, without the necessity
of any notice or action by any Holder, the Stock Purchase Contract Agent or the
Company, if, on or prior to either Stock Purchase Date, a Termination Event
shall have occurred. Upon the occurrence of a Termination Event, the Company
shall promptly but in no event later than two Business Days thereafter give
written notice to the Stock Purchase Contract Agent, the Collateral Agent and
the Holders, at their addresses as they appear in the Security Register. Upon
and after the occurrence of a Termination Event, the Collateral Agent shall
release the Pledged Treasury Securities (as defined in the Pledge Agreement) in
accordance with the provisions of the Pledge Agreement. A Stripped Common Equity
Unit shall thereafter represent the right to receive the interest in the
Treasury Security forming a part of such Stripped Common Equity Units, in
accordance with the terms of and except as set forth in, the Stock Purchase
Contract Agreement and the Pledge Agreement.

      Subject to and upon compliance with the provisions of the Stock Purchase
Contract Agreement, at the option of the Holder thereof, Stock Purchase
Contracts underlying Common Equity Units may be settled early ("EARLY
SETTLEMENT") as provided in the Stock Purchase Contract Agreement. In order to
exercise the right to effect Early Settlement with respect to any Stock Purchase
Contract evidenced by this Certificate, the Holder of this Stripped Common
Equity Unit Certificate shall deliver to the Stock Purchase Contract Agent at
the Corporate Trust Office an Election to Settle Early form set forth below duly
completed and accompanied by

                                      B-8

payment in the form of immediately available funds payable to the order of the
Company in an amount (the "EARLY SETTLEMENT AMOUNT") equal to the sum of:

            (i) $25.00 times the number of Stock Purchase Contracts being
      settled, if settled on or prior to the fifth business day immediately
      preceding the Initial Stock Purchase Date, and thereafter $12.50 times the
      number of Stock Purchase Contracts being settled, if settled on or prior
      to the fifth Business Day immediately preceding the Subsequent Stock
      Purchase Date, plus

            (ii) if such delivery is made with respect to any Stock Purchase
      Contracts during the period from the close of business on any Record Date
      next preceding any Payment Date to the opening of business on such Payment
      Date, an amount equal to the Contract Payments payable on such Payment
      Date with respect to such Stock Purchase Contracts.

      Upon Early Settlement of Stock Purchase Contracts by a Holder of the
related Common Equity Units, the Pledged Treasury Securities underlying such
Common Equity Units shall be released from the Pledge as provided in the Pledge
Agreement and the Holder shall be entitled to receive a number of newly issued
or treasury shares of Common Stock adjusted in the same manner and at the same
time as the Settlement Rate is adjusted (the "EARLY SETTLEMENT RATE").

      Upon the occurrence of a Cash Merger, a Holder of Stripped Common Equity
Units may effect Cash Merger Early Settlement of the Stock Purchase Contract
underlying such Stripped Common Equity Units pursuant to the terms of Section
5.04(b)(ii) of the Stock Purchase Contract Agreement. Upon Cash Merger Early
Settlement of Stock Purchase Contracts by a Holder of the related Stripped
Common Equity Units, the Pledged Treasury Securities underlying such Stripped
Common Equity Units shall be released from the Pledge as provided in the Pledge
Agreement.

      Upon registration of transfer of this Stripped Common Equity Unit
Certificate, the transferee shall be bound (without the necessity of any other
action on the part of such transferee, except as may be required by the Stock
Purchase Contract Agent pursuant to the Stock Purchase Contract Agreement),
under the terms of the Stock Purchase Contract Agreement and the Stock Purchase
Contracts evidenced hereby and the transferor shall be released from the
obligations under the Stock Purchase Contracts evidenced by this Stripped Common
Equity Unit Certificate. The Company covenants and agrees, and the Holder, by
its acceptance hereof, likewise covenants and agrees, to be bound by the
provisions of this paragraph.

      The Holder of this Stripped Common Equity Unit Certificate, by its
acceptance hereof, authorizes the Stock Purchase Contract Agent to enter into
and perform the related Stock Purchase Contracts forming part of the Stripped
Common Equity Units evidenced hereby on its behalf as its attorney-in-fact,
expressly withholds any consent to the assumption (i.e., affirmance) of the
Stock Purchase Contracts by the Company or its trustee in the event that the
Company becomes the subject of a case under the Bankruptcy Code, agrees to be
bound by the terms and provisions thereof, covenants and agrees to perform its
obligations under such Stock Purchase Contracts, consents to the provisions of
the Stock Purchase Contract Agreement, authorizes the

                                      B-9

Stock Purchase Contract Agent to enter into and perform the Stock Purchase
Contract Agreement and the Pledge Agreement on its behalf as its
attorney-in-fact, and consents to the Pledge of the Treasury Securities
underlying this Stripped Common Equity Unit Certificate pursuant to the Pledge
Agreement. The Holder further covenants and agrees, that, to the extent and in
the manner provided in the Stock Purchase Contract Agreement and the Pledge
Agreement, but subject to the terms thereof, payments in respect to the
aggregate principal amount of the Pledged Treasury Securities on the Stock
Purchase Date shall be paid by the Collateral Agent to the Company in
satisfaction of such Holder's obligations under such Stock Purchase Contract and
such Holder shall acquire no right, title or interest in such payments.

      Subject to certain exceptions, the provisions of the Stock Purchase
Contract Agreement may be amended with the consent of the Holders of a majority
in number of the Outstanding Common Equity Units.

      The Stock Purchase Contracts, and Common Equity Units shall for all
purposes be governed by, and construed in accordance with, the laws of the State
of New York.

      Prior to due presentment of this Certificate for registration or transfer,
the Company, the Stock Purchase Contract Agent and its Affiliates and any agent
of the Company or the Stock Purchase Contract Agent may treat the Person in
whose name this Stripped Common Equity Unit Certificate is registered as the
owner of the Stripped Common Equity Units evidenced hereby for the purpose of
receiving payments of interest on the Treasury Securities, receiving payments of
Contract Payments (subject to any applicable record date), performance of the
Stock Purchase Contracts and for all other purposes whatsoever, whether or not
any payments in respect thereof be overdue and notwithstanding any notice to the
contrary, and neither the Company, the Stock Purchase Contract Agent nor any
such agent shall be affected by notice to the contrary.

      The Stock Purchase Contracts shall not entitle the Holder to any of the
rights of a holder of shares of Common Stock.

      A copy of the Stock Purchase Contract Agreement is available for
inspection at the Corporate Trust Office.

                                      B-10

ABBREVIATIONS

      The following abbreviations, when used in the inscription on the face of
this instrument, shall be construed as though they were written out in full
according to applicable laws or regulations:

  TEN COM:            as tenants in common

                                            Custodian
                      ----------------------------------------------------------
  UNIF GIFT MIN ACT:    (cust)                                       (minor)

                                Under Uniform Gifts to Minors Act of
                      ----------------------------------------------------------
  TENANT:                           as tenants by the entireties

  JT TEN:             as joint tenants with right of survivorship and not as
                      tenants in common

      Additional abbreviations may also be used though not in the above list.

      FOR VALUE RECEIVED, the undersigned hereby sell(s), assign(s) and
transfer(s) unto

________________________________________________________________________________

________________________________________________________________________________
 (Please insert Social Security or Taxpayer I.D. or other Identifying Number of
                                   Assignee)

the within Stripped Common Equity Unit Certificates and all rights thereunder,
hereby irrevocably constituting and appointing attorney __________________, to
transfer said Stripped Common Equity Unit Certificates on the books of the
Security Registrar, with full power of substitution in the premises.

  Dated:                         Signature _____________________________________
                                 NOTICE: The signature to this assignment must
                                 correspond with the name as it appears upon the
                                 face of the within Stripped Common Equity Unit
                                 Certificates in every particular, without
                                 alteration or enlargement or any change
                                 whatsoever.

  Signature Guarantee: _________________________________________________________

                                      B-11

SETTLEMENT INSTRUCTIONS

      The undersigned Holder directs that a certificate for shares of Common
Stock deliverable upon settlement on or after the {Initial}{Subsequent} Stock
Purchase Date of the Stock Purchase Contracts underlying the number of Stripped
Common Equity Units evidenced by this Stripped Common Equity Unit Certificate be
registered in the name of, and delivered, together with a check in payment for
any fractional share, to the undersigned at the address indicated below unless a
different name and address have been indicated below. If shares are to be
registered in the name of a Person other than the undersigned, the undersigned
will pay any transfer tax payable incident thereto.

  Dated: ____________________________________

If shares are to be registered in the name of and delivered to a Person other
than the Holder, please (i) print such Person's name and address and (ii)
provide a guarantee of your signature:

 ____________________________________________

  Name  _____________________________________

  Address

 ____________________________________________

 ____________________________________________

 ____________________________________________

  Social Security or other Taxpayer Identification
  Number, if any

 ____________________________________________
  Signature

  Signature Guarantee:   ____________________
  (if assigned to another person)

                                      B-12

ELECTION TO SETTLE EARLY/CASH MERGER EARLY SETTLEMENT

      The undersigned Holder of this Stripped Common Equity Unit Certificate
hereby irrevocably exercises the option to effect {Early Settlement} {Cash
Merger Early Settlement upon a Cash Merger} in accordance with the terms of the
Stock Purchase Contract Agreement with respect to the Stock Purchase Contracts
underlying the number of Stripped Common Equity Units evidenced by this Stripped
Common Equity Unit Certificate specified below. The option to effect {Early
Settlement} {Cash Merger Early Settlement} may be exercised only with respect to
Stock Purchase Contracts underlying Stripped Common Equity Units with an
aggregate Stated Amount equal to $1,000 or an integral multiple thereof. The
undersigned Holder directs that a certificate for shares of Common Stock or
other securities deliverable upon such {Early Settlement} {Cash Merger Early
Settlement} be registered in the name of, and delivered, together with a check
in payment for any fractional share and any Stripped Common Equity Unit
Certificate representing any Stripped Common Equity Units evidenced hereby as to
which Cash Merger Early Settlement of the related Stock Purchase Contracts is
not effected, to the undersigned at the address indicated below unless a
different name and address have been indicated below. Pledged Treasury
Securities deliverable upon such {Early Settlement} {Cash Merger Early
Settlement} will be transferred in accordance with the transfer instructions set
forth below. If shares are to be registered in the name of a Person other than
the undersigned, the undersigned will pay any transfer tax payable incident
thereto.

  Dated: _______________________________  Signature ____________________________

  Signature Guarantee: _________________________________________________________

      Number of Stripped Common Equity Units evidenced hereby as to which {Early
Settlement} {Cash Merger Early Settlement} of the related Stock Purchase
Contracts is being elected:

      If shares of Common Stock or REGISTERED HOLDER Stripped Normal Common
Equity Unit Certificates are to be registered in the name of [Please print name
and address] and delivered to and Pledged Treasury Securities are to be
transferred to a Person other than the Holder, please print such Person's name
and address:

                                      B-13

REGISTERED HOLDER

                             Please print name and address of Registered Holder:
_____________________        ___________________________________________________
  Name                       Name

_____________________        ___________________________________________________
  Address                    Address

_____________________        ___________________________________________________

_____________________        ___________________________________________________

_____________________        ___________________________________________________

  Social Security or other Taxpayer
  Identification Number, if any

      Transfer Instructions for Pledged Treasury Securities Transferable upon
{Early Settlement} {Cash Merger Early Settlement} or a Termination Event:

                                      B-14

{TO BE ATTACHED TO GLOBAL CERTIFICATES}

            SCHEDULE OF INCREASES OR DECREASES IN GLOBAL CERTIFICATE

The following increases or decreases in this Global Certificate have been made:

Amount of increase
             in Number of                                 Number of Stripped
           Stripped Common      Amount of decrease in    Common Equity Units
             Equity Units        Number of Stripped       evidenced by this         Signature of
           evidenced by the      Common Equity Units      Global Certificate    authorized signatory
             Date Global          evidenced by the          following such        of Stock Purchase
Date         Certificate         Global Certificate      decrease or increase      Contract Agent

B-15

EXHIBIT C

                  INSTRUCTION TO STOCK PURCHASE CONTRACT AGENT

J.P. Morgan Trust Company, National Association
as Stock Purchase Contract Agent
Worldwide Securities Services
4 New York Plaza, 15th Floor
New York, New York 10004

      Re: {Normal Common Equity Units} {Stripped Common Equity Units} of
          MetLife, Inc., a Delaware corporation (the "COMPANY").

      The undersigned Holder hereby notifies you that it has delivered to JP
Morgan Chase Bank, National Association, as Securities Intermediary, for credit
to the Collateral Account, $_____ aggregate [liquidation] [principal] amount of
{Trust Preferred Securities} {Treasury Securities} in exchange for the {Pledged
Trust Preferred Securities} {Pledged Treasury Securities} held in the Collateral
Account, in accordance with the Pledge Agreement, dated as of June 21, 2005 (the
"PLEDGE AGREEMENT"; unless otherwise defined herein, terms defined in the Pledge
Agreement are used herein as defined therein), between you, the Company, the
Collateral Agent, the Custodial Agent and the Securities Intermediary. The
undersigned Holder has paid all applicable fees and expenses relating to such
exchange. The undersigned Holder hereby instructs you to instruct the Collateral
Agent to release to you on behalf of the undersigned Holder the {Pledged Trust
Preferred Securities} {Pledged Treasury Securities} related to such {Normal
Common Equity Units} {Stripped Common Equity Units}.

  Date: ________________________                 _______________________________
                                                  Signature Guarantee:

                                                 _______________________________
  Please print name and address of
  Registered Holder:

                                                 _______________________________

________________________________                 _______________________________
  Name                                            Social Security or other
                                                  Taxpayer Identification
                                                  Number, if any

  Address

________________________________

________________________________

________________________________

                                      C-1

EXHIBIT D

                    NOTICE FROM STOCK PURCHASE CONTRACT AGENT
                                   TO HOLDERS

         (Transfer of Collateral upon Occurrence of a Termination Event)

{HOLDER}

________________________________

________________________________

Attention:
Telecopy: ______________________

      Re: {Normal Common Equity Units} {Stripped Common Equity Units} of
          MetLife, Inc., a Delaware corporation (the "COMPANY")

      Please refer to the Stock Purchase Contract Agreement, dated as of June
21, 2005 (the "PURCHASE CONTRACT AGREEMENT"; unless otherwise defined herein,
terms defined in the Stock Purchase Contract Agreement are used herein as
defined therein), between the Company and the undersigned, as Stock Purchase
Contract Agent and as attorney-in-fact for the holders of Normal Common Equity
Units and Stripped Common Equity Units from time to time.

      We hereby notify you we have received notice that a Termination Event has
occurred and that {the Trust Preferred Securities} {the Treasury Securities}
comprising a portion of your ownership interest in ______, {Normal Common Equity
Units} {Stripped Common Equity Units} have been released and are being held by
us for your account pending receipt of transfer instructions with respect to
such {Trust Preferred Securities} {Treasury Securities} (the "RELEASED
SECURITIES").

      Pursuant to Section 3.15 of the Stock Purchase Contract Agreement, we
hereby request written transfer instructions with respect to the Released
Securities. Upon receipt of your instructions and upon transfer to us of your
{Normal Common Equity Units}{Stripped Common Equity Units} effected through
book-entry or by delivery to us of your {Normal Common Equity Unit
Certificate}{Stripped Common Equity Unit Certificate}, we shall transfer the
Released Securities by book-entry transfer or other appropriate procedures, in
accordance with your instructions.

      In the event you fail to effect such transfer or delivery, the Released
Securities and any distributions thereon, shall be held in our name, or a
nominee in trust for your benefit, until such time as such {Normal Common Equity
Units}{Stripped Common Equity Units} are transferred or your {Normal Common
Equity Unit Certificate} {Stripped Common Equity Unit Certificate} is
surrendered or satisfactory evidence is provided that such {Normal Common Equity
Unit Certificate}{Stripped Common Equity Unit Certificate} has been destroyed,
lost or stolen, together with any indemnification that we or the Company may
require.

                                       D-1

Dated:                                    By: J.P. MORGAN TRUST COMPANY,
         ___________________                        NATIONAL ASSOCIATION

                                               _________________________________
                                            By: Name:
                                                Title: Authorized Signatory

                                       D-2

EXHIBIT E

                            NOTICE TO SETTLE BY CASH

J.P. Morgan Trust Company, National Association
as Stock Purchase Contract Agent
Worldwide Securities Services
4 New York Plaza, 15th Floor
New York, New York 10004

      Re: Normal Common Equity Units of MetLife, Inc.,
          a Delaware corporation (the "COMPANY")

      The undersigned Holder hereby irrevocably notifies you in accordance with
Section 5.02 of the Stock Purchase Contract Agreement, dated as of June 21, 2005
(the "STOCK PURCHASE CONTRACT AGREEMENT"; unless otherwise defined herein, terms
defined in the Stock Purchase Contract Agreement are used herein as defined
therein), between the Company and you, as Stock Purchase Contract Agent and as
attorney-in-fact for the Holders of the Stock Purchase Contracts, that such
Holder has elected to pay to the Securities Intermediary for deposit in the
Collateral Account, at or prior to 5:00 p.m. (New York City time) on the fourth
Business Day immediately preceding the Stock Purchase Date (in lawful money of
the United States by certified or cashiers' check or wire transfer, in
immediately available funds), $[ ] as the Purchase Price for the shares of
Common Stock issuable to such Holder by the Company with respect to Stock
Purchase Contracts on the Stock Purchase Date. The undersigned Holder hereby
instructs you to notify promptly the Collateral Agent of the undersigned
Holders' election to make such Cash Settlement with respect to the Stock
Purchase Contracts related to such Holder's Normal Common Equity Units.

  Dated: ____________________                    By:

                                                     ___________________________
                                                 By: Name:
                                                     Title: Authorized Signatory

                                      E-1

EXHIBIT F

                    NOTICE FROM STOCK PURCHASE CONTRACT AGENT
                               TO COLLATERAL AGENT
           (Settlement of Stock Purchase Contract through Remarketing)

J.P. Morgan Chase Bank, National Association
as Collateral Agent
Worldwide Securities Services
4 New York Plaza, 15th Floor
New York, New York 10004
Facsimile: (212) 623-6215
Attention: Worldwide Securities Services

      Re: Normal Common Equity Units of MetLife, Inc.,
          a Delaware corporation (the "COMPANY")

      Please refer to the Stock Purchase Contract Agreement, dated as of June
21, 2005 (the "STOCK PURCHASE CONTRACT AGREEMENT"; unless otherwise defined
herein, terms defined in the Stock Purchase Contract Agreement are used herein
as defined therein), between the Company and the undersigned, as Stock Purchase
Contract Agent and as attorney-in-fact for the Holders of Normal Common Equity
Units from time to time.

      In accordance with Section 5.02 of the Stock Purchase Contract Agreement
and, based on notices of Cash Settlements received from Holders of Normal Common
Equity Units as of 5:00 p.m. (New York City time), on the fifth Business Day
immediately preceding the Stock Purchase Date, we hereby notify you that Trust
Preferred Securities in an aggregate liquidation amount of $[ ] are to be
tendered for purchase in the Remarketing.

  Dated: ____________________           By: J.P. Morgan Trust Company, National
                                            Association, as the Stock Purchase
                                            Contract Agent

                                        By: ____________________________________
                                            Name:
                                            Title: Authorized Signatory

                                      F-1

</EX-4.83>

<EX-4.86>
 12
 y87657exv4w86.txt
 EX-4.86

EXHIBIT 4.86

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

                                PLEDGE AGREEMENT

                                      among

                                  METLIFE, INC.

                                       and

                   JPMORGAN CHASE BANK, NATIONAL ASSOCIATION,
        As Collateral Agent, Custodial Agent and Securities Intermediary

                                       and

                J.P. MORGAN TRUST COMPANY, NATIONAL ASSOCIATION,
                        As Stock Purchase Contract Agent

                            Dated as of June 21, 2005

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

TABLE OF CONTENTS

i

TABLE OF CONTENTS
                                   (continued)

PAGE
                                                                                                      
Section 5.02.     Creation of Stripped Common Equity Units.......................................       13

Section 5.03.     Recreation of Normal Common Equity Units.......................................       14

Section 5.04.     Termination Event..............................................................       15

Section 5.05.     Cash Settlement................................................................       16

Section 5.06.     Early Settlement and Cash Merger Early Settlement..............................       18

Section 5.07.     Application of Proceeds in Settlement of Stock Purchase Contracts..............       18

                                                ARTICLE VI
                           VOTING RIGHTS -- PLEDGED TRUST PREFERRED SECURITIES

Section 6.01.     Voting Rights..................................................................       20

                                               ARTICLE VII
                                           RIGHTS AND REMEDIES

Section 7.01.     Rights and Remedies of the Collateral Agent....................................       21

Section 7.02.     Remarketing....................................................................       22

Section 7.03.     Successful Remarketing.........................................................       22

Section 7.04.     Substitutions..................................................................       23

                                               ARTICLE VIII
                                REPRESENTATIONS AND WARRANTIES; COVENANTS

Section 8.01.     Representations and Warranties.................................................       23

Section 8.02.     Covenants......................................................................       24

                                                ARTICLE IX
                THE COLLATERAL AGENT, THE CUSTODIAL AGENT AND THE SECURITIES INTERMEDIARY

Section 9.01.     Appointment, Powers and Immunities.............................................       24

Section 9.02.     Instructions of the Company....................................................       25

Section 9.03.     Reliance by Collateral Agent, Custodial Agent and Securities Intermediary......       26

Section 9.04.     Certain Rights.................................................................       27

Section 9.05.     Merger, Conversion, Consolidation or Succession to Business....................       27

Section 9.06.     Rights in Other Capacities.....................................................       27

Section 9.07.     Non-reliance on Collateral Agent, the Custodial Agent and Securities
                  Intermediary...................................................................       28

ii

TABLE OF CONTENTS
                                   (continued)

iii

EXHIBITS:

EXHIBIT A - Instruction from Stock Purchase Contract Agent to Collateral Agent
            (Creation of Stripped Common Equity Units)

EXHIBIT B - Instruction from Collateral Agent to Securities Intermediary
            (Creation of Stripped Common Equity Units)

EXHIBIT C - Instruction from Stock Purchase Contract Agent to Collateral Agent
            (Recreation of Normal Common Equity Units)

EXHIBIT D - Instruction from Collateral Agent to Securities Intermediary
            (Recreation of Normal Common Equity Units)

EXHIBIT E - Notice of Cash Settlement from Collateral Agent to Stock Purchase
            Contract Agent

EXHIBIT F - Instruction to Custodial Agent Regarding Remarketing

EXHIBIT G - Instruction to Custodial Agent Regarding Withdrawal From Remarketing

SCHEDULE I - Contact Persons for Confirmation

                                       i

PLEDGE AGREEMENT, dated as of June 21, 2005 among MetLife, Inc., a
Delaware corporation (the "Company"), JPMorgan Chase Bank, National Association,
as collateral agent (in such capacity, the "Collateral Agent"), as custodial
agent (in such capacity, the "Custodial Agent"), and as securities intermediary
(as defined in Section 8-102(a)(14) of the UCC) with respect to the Collateral
Account (in such capacity, the "Securities Intermediary"), and J.P. Morgan Trust
Company, National Association, as stock purchase contract agent and as
attorney-in-fact of the Holders from time to time of the Common Equity Units (in
such capacity, the "Stock Purchase Contract Agent") under the Stock Purchase
Contract Agreement.

                                    RECITALS

            WHEREAS, the Company and the Stock Purchase Contract Agent are
parties to the Stock Purchase Contract Agreement dated as of the date hereof (as
modified and supplemented and in effect from time to time, the "Stock Purchase
Contract Agreement"), pursuant to which 72,000,000 Normal Common Equity Units
(or 82,800,000 Normal Common Equity Units if the option granted to the
Underwriters pursuant to the Underwriting Agreement is exercised) will be
issued.

            WHEREAS, each Normal Common Equity Unit, at issuance, consists of a
unit comprised of (a) a stock purchase contract (a "Stock Purchase Contract")
pursuant to which the Holder will purchase from the Company on each of the
Initial Stock Purchase Date and the Subsequent Stock Purchase Date, for an
amount equal to $12.50 on each such date, a number of shares of the Company's
common stock, par value $1.00 per share, ("Common Stock") equal to the
Settlement Rate, (b) a 1/80, or 1.25%, beneficial ownership interest in a Series
A Trust Preferred Security with a liquidation amount of $1,000 (the "Series A
Trust Preferred Securities"); and (c) a 1/80, or 1.25%, beneficial ownership
interest in a Series B Trust Preferred Security with a liquidation amount of
$1,000 (the "Series B Trust Preferred Securities" and, with the Series A Trust
Preferred Securities, each a series of "Trust Preferred Securities").

            WHEREAS, pursuant to the terms of the Stock Purchase Contract
Agreement and the Stock Purchase Contracts, the Holders of the Common Equity
Units have irrevocably authorized the Stock Purchase Contract Agent, as
attorney-in-fact of such Holders, among other things, to execute and deliver
this Agreement on behalf of such Holders and to grant the pledge provided herein
of the Collateral to secure the Obligations.

            NOW, THEREFORE, the Company, the Collateral Agent, the Custodial
Agent, the Securities Intermediary and the Stock Purchase Contract Agent agree
as follows:

                                    ARTICLE I

                                   DEFINITIONS

            SECTION 1.01 Definitions.

            For all purposes of this Agreement, except as otherwise expressly
provided or unless the context otherwise requires:

(a) the terms defined in this Article have the meanings assigned to
      them in this Article and include the plural as well as the singular, and
      nouns and pronouns of the masculine gender include the feminine and neuter
      genders;

            (b) the words "herein," "hereof" and "hereunder" and other words of
      similar import refer to this Agreement as a whole and not to any
      particular Article, Section, Exhibit or other subdivision;

            (c) the following terms which are defined in the UCC shall have the
      meanings set forth therein: "Certificated Security," "Control," "Financial
      Asset," "Entitlement Order," "Securities Account" and "Security
      Entitlement;"

            (d) capitalized terms used herein and not defined herein have the
      meanings assigned to them in the Stock Purchase Contract Agreement; and

            (e) the following terms have the meanings given to them in this
      Section 1.01(e):

            "Agreement" means this Pledge Agreement, as the same may be amended,
modified or supplemented from time to time.

            "Applicable Remarketing Settlement Date" has the meaning set forth
in the Stock Purchase Contract Agreement.

            "Cash" means any coin or currency of the United States as at the
time shall be legal tender for payment of public and private debts.

            "Collateral" means the collective reference to:

            (i) the Series A Collateral Account, the Series B Collateral Account
      and all investment property and other financial assets from time to time
      credited thereto and all security entitlements with respect thereto,
      including, without limitation, (A) the Trust Preferred Securities and
      security entitlements relating thereto that are a component of the Normal
      Common Equity Units from time to time, (B) any Treasury Securities and
      security entitlements relating thereto delivered from time to time upon
      creation of Stripped Common Equity Units in accordance with Section 5.02
      hereof and (C) payments made by Holders pursuant to Section 5.05 hereof;

            (ii) all Proceeds of any of the foregoing (whether such Proceeds
      arise before or after the commencement of any proceeding under any
      applicable bankruptcy, insolvency or other similar law, by or against the
      pledgor or with respect to the pledgor); and

            (iii) all powers and rights now owned or hereafter acquired under or
      with respect to the Collateral.

            "Collateral Account" means the Series A Collateral Account and/or
      the Series B Collateral Account, as the context requires.

                                       2

"Collateral Agent" means the Person named as the "Collateral Agent"
in the first paragraph of this Agreement until a successor Collateral Agent
shall have become such pursuant to the applicable provisions of this Agreement,
and thereafter "Collateral Agent" shall mean such Person or any subsequent
successor who is appointed pursuant to this Agreement.

            "Common Stock" has the meaning specified in the second paragraph of
the recitals of this Agreement.

            "Company" means the Person named as the "Company" in the first
paragraph of this Agreement until a successor shall have become such pursuant to
the applicable provisions of the Stock Purchase Contract Agreement, and
thereafter "Company" shall mean such successor.

            "Custodial Agent" means the Person named as the "Custodial Agent" in
the first paragraph of this Agreement until a successor Custodial Agent shall
have become such pursuant to the applicable provisions of this Agreement, and
thereafter "Custodial Agent" shall mean such Person or any subsequent successor
who is appointed pursuant to this Agreement.

            "Failed Remarketing" has the meaning set forth in the Stock Purchase
Contract Agreement.

            "Final Failed Remarketing" means a Failed Remarketing with respect
to the Third Remarketing Settlement Date (as defined in the Stock Purchase
Contract Agreement) for each series of the Trust Preferred Securities,

            "Initial Stock Purchase Date" has the meaning set forth in the Stock
Purchase Contract Agreement.

            "Obligations" means, with respect to each Holder, all obligations
and liabilities of such Holder under such Holder's Stock Purchase Contract, the
Stock Purchase Contract Agreement and this Agreement or any other document made,
delivered or given in connection herewith or therewith, in each case whether on
account of principal, interest (including, without limitation, interest accruing
before and after the filing of any petition in bankruptcy, or the commencement
of any insolvency, reorganization or like proceeding, relating to such Holder,
whether or not a claim for post-filing or post-petition interest is allowed in
such proceeding), fees, indemnities, costs, expenses or otherwise (including,
without limitation, all fees and disbursements of counsel to the Company or the
Collateral Agent or the Securities Intermediary that are required to be paid by
the Holder pursuant to the terms of any of the foregoing agreements).

            "Permitted Investments" means any one of the following, in each case
maturing on the Business Day following the date of acquisition:

            (i) any evidence of indebtedness with an original maturity of 365
      days or less issued, or directly and fully guaranteed or insured, by the
      United States of America or any agency or instrumentality thereof
      (provided that the full faith and credit of the United States of America
      is pledged in support of the timely payment thereof or such indebtedness
      constitutes a general obligation of it);

                                       3

(ii) deposits, certificates of deposit or acceptances with an
      original maturity of 365 days or less of any institution which is a member
      of the Federal Reserve System having combined capital and surplus and
      undivided profits of not less than $500 million at the time of deposit
      (and which may include the institution acting as Collateral Agent);

            (iii) investments with an original maturity of 365 days or less of
      any Person that are fully and unconditionally guaranteed by a bank
      referred to in clause (ii);

            (iv) repurchase agreements and reverse repurchase agreements
      relating to marketable direct obligations issued or unconditionally
      guaranteed by the United States of America or issued by any agency thereof
      and backed as to timely payment by the full faith and credit of the United
      States of America;

            (v) investments in commercial paper, other than commercial paper
      issued by the Company or its Affiliates, of any corporation incorporated
      under the laws of the United States of America or any State thereof, which
      commercial paper has a rating at the time of purchase at least equal to
      "A-1" by Standard & Poor's Ratings Services ("S&P") or at least equal to
      "P-1" by Moody's Investors Service, Inc. ("Moody's"); and

            (vi) investments in money market funds (including, but not limited
      to, money market funds managed by the institution acting as the Collateral
      Agent or an affiliate of the institution acting as the Collateral Agent)
      registered under the Investment Company Act of 1940, as amended, rated in
      the highest applicable rating category by S&P or Moody's.

            "Pledge" means the lien and security interest created by this
Agreement.

            "Pledged Securities" means the Pledged Trust Preferred Securities
and the Pledged Treasury Securities, collectively.

            "Pledged Series A Trust Preferred Securities" means Series A Trust
Preferred Securities and security entitlements with respect thereto from time to
time credited to the Series A Collateral Account and not then released from the
Pledge.

            "Pledged Series B Trust Preferred Securities" means Series B Trust
Preferred Securities and security entitlements with respect thereto from time to
time credited to the Series B Collateral Account and not then released from the
Pledge.

            "Pledged Trust Preferred Securities" means the Pledged Series A
Trust Preferred Securities and the Pledged Series B Trust Preferred Securities.

            "Pledged Series A Treasury Securities" means Treasury Securities and
security entitlements with respect thereto maturing on the Applicable
Remarketing Settlement Date for the Pledged Series A Trust Preferred Securities
from time to time credited to the Series A Collateral Account and not then
released from the Pledge.

            "Pledged Series B Treasury Securities" means Treasury Securities and
security entitlements with respect thereto maturing on the Applicable
Remarketing Settlement Date for

                                       4

the Pledged Series B Trust Preferred Securities from time to time credited to
the Series B Collateral Account and not then released from the Pledge.

            "Pledged Treasury Securities" means the Pledged Series A Treasury
Securities and/or the Pledged Series B Treasury Securities, as the context
requires.

            "Proceeds" has the meaning ascribed thereto in Section 9-102(a)(64)
of the UCC and includes, without limitation, all interest, dividends, cash,
instruments, securities, financial assets and other property received,
receivable or otherwise distributed upon the sale (including, without
limitation, the Remarketing), exchange, collection or disposition of any
financial assets from time to time held in a Collateral Account.

            "Reset Rate", in respect of either series of Trust Preferred
Securities, has the meaning set forth in the Trust Agreement under which such
series was issued.

            "Securities Intermediary" means the Person named as the "Securities
Intermediary" in the first paragraph of this Agreement until a successor
Securities Intermediary shall have become such pursuant to the applicable
provisions of this Agreement, and thereafter "Securities Intermediary" shall
mean such Person or any subsequent successor who is appointed pursuant to this
Agreement.

            "Series A Collateral Account" means the securities account of
JPMorgan Chase Bank, National Association, as Collateral Agent, maintained by
the Securities Intermediary and designated "JPMorgan Chase Bank, National
Association, as Collateral Agent of MetLife, Inc., as pledgee of J.P. Morgan
Trust Company, National Association, as the Stock Purchase Contract Agent on
behalf of and as attorney-in-fact for the Holders, Series A."

            "Series B Collateral Account" means the securities account of
JPMorgan Chase Bank, National Association, as Collateral Agent, maintained by
the Securities Intermediary and designated "JPMorgan Chase Bank, National
Association, as Collateral Agent of MetLife, Inc., as pledgee of J.P. Morgan
Trust Company, National Association, as the Stock Purchase Contract Agent on
behalf of and as attorney-in-fact for the Holders, Series B."

            "Series A Trust Preferred Securities" has the meaning set forth in
the recitals hereto.

            "Series B Trust Preferred Securities" has the meaning set forth in
the recitals hereto.

            "Settlement Rate" has the meaning set forth in Section 5.01(a) of
the Stock Purchase Contract Agreement.

            "Stated Amount" means (i) $25 prior to the Initial Stock Purchase
Date and (ii) $12.50 thereafter.

            "Stock Purchase Contract" has the meaning specified in the second
paragraph of the recitals of this Agreement.

                                       5

"Stock Purchase Contract Agent" means the Person named as the "Stock
Purchase Contract Agent" in the first paragraph of this Agreement until a
successor Stock Purchase Contract Agent shall have become such pursuant to the
applicable provisions of the Stock Purchase Contract Agreement, and thereafter
"Stock Purchase Contract Agent" shall mean such Person or any subsequent
successor who is appointed pursuant to this Agreement.

            "Stock Purchase Contract Agreement" has the meaning specified in the
first paragraph of the recitals of this Agreement.

            "Subsequent Stock Purchase Date" has the meaning set forth in the
Stock Purchase Contract Agreement.

            "Trades" means the Treasury/Reserve Automated Debt Entry System
maintained by the Federal Reserve Bank of New York pursuant to the Trades
Regulations.

            "Trades Regulations" means the regulations of the United States
Department of the Treasury, published at 31 C.F.R. Part 357, as amended from
time to time. Unless otherwise defined herein, all terms defined in the Trades
Regulations are used herein as therein defined.

            "Transfer" means (i) in the case of certificated securities in
registered form, delivery as provided in Section 8-301(a) of the UCC, endorsed
to the transferee or in blank by an effective endorsement, (ii) in the case of
Treasury Securities, registration of the transferee as the owner of such
Treasury Securities on Trades and (iii) in the case of security entitlements,
including, without limitation, security entitlements with respect to Treasury
Securities, a securities intermediary indicating by book entry that such
security entitlement has been credited to the transferee's securities account.

            "Trust Agreement" means each of the Amended and Restated
Declarations of Trust, dated as of the date hereof, among the Company, as
Sponsor, the Property Trustee, the Delaware Trustee and the Administrative
Trustees (each as named therein) and the several Holders (as defined therein)
relating to MetLife Capital Trust II and MetLife Capital Trust III.

            "UCC" means the Uniform Commercial Code as in effect in the State of
New York from time to time.

            "Value" means, with respect to any item of Collateral on any date,
as to (1) Cash, the face amount thereof, (2) Trust Preferred Securities, the
aggregate liquidation amount thereof and (3) Treasury Securities, the aggregate
principal amount thereof.

                                   ARTICLE II

                                     PLEDGE

            SECTION 2.01. Pledge.

            Each Holder, acting through the Stock Purchase Contract Agent as
such Holder's attorney-in-fact, and the Stock Purchase Contract Agent, acting
solely as such attorney-in-fact, hereby pledges and grants to the Collateral
Agent, as agent of and for the benefit of the

                                       6

Company, a continuing first priority security interest in and to, and a lien
upon and right of set-off against, all of such Person's right, title and
interest in and to the Collateral to secure the prompt and complete payment and
performance when due (whether at stated maturity, by acceleration or otherwise)
of the Obligations. The Collateral Agent shall have all of the rights, remedies
and recourses with respect to the Collateral afforded a secured party by the
UCC, in addition to, and not in limitation of, the other rights, remedies and
recourses afforded to the Collateral Agent by this Agreement.

            SECTION 2.02. Control.

            The Collateral Agent shall have control of the Series A Collateral
Account and the Series B Collateral Account pursuant to the provisions of
Article IV of this Agreement.

            SECTION 2.03. Termination.

            As to each Holder, this Agreement and the Pledge created hereby
shall terminate upon the satisfaction of such Holder's Obligations. Upon receipt
of notice from the Stock Purchase Contract Agent of such termination, the
Collateral Agent shall, except as otherwise provided herein, instruct the
Securities Intermediary to Transfer such Holder's portion of the Collateral to
the Stock Purchase Contract Agent for distribution to such Holder, free and
clear of the Pledge created hereby.

                                  ARTICLE III

                       DISTRIBUTIONS ON PLEDGED COLLATERAL

            SECTION 3.01. Income and Distributions.

            The Collateral Agent shall transfer to the Stock Purchase Contract
Agent for distribution to the applicable Holders as provided in the Stock
Purchase Contracts or Stock Purchase Contract Agreement all income and
distributions received by the Collateral Agent on account of (i) the Pledged
Series A Trust Preferred Securities or Permitted Investments from time to time
held in the Series A Collateral Account and (ii) the Pledged Series B Trust
Preferred Securities or Permitted Investments from time to time held in the
Series B Collateral Account.

            SECTION 3.02. Payments Following Termination Event.

            Following a Termination Event, the Collateral Agent shall transfer
all payments of liquidation amounts or principal it receives, if any, in respect
of (1) the Pledged Trust Preferred Securities and (2) the Pledged Treasury
Securities, to the Stock Purchase Contract Agent for the benefit of the
applicable Holders for distribution to such Holders in accordance with their
respective interests, free and clear of the Pledge created hereby.

            SECTION 3.03. Payments Prior to or on Stock Purchase Date.

            (a) Subject to the provisions of Section 5.06, and except as
      provided in Section 3.03(b) and Section 3.03(c) below, if no Termination
      Event shall have occurred,

                                       7

(b) all payments of liquidation amounts or principal received by the
      Securities Intermediary in respect of (x) the Pledged Series A Trust
      Preferred Securities and (y) the Pledged Series A Treasury Securities
      shall be held in the Series A Collateral Account and invested in Permitted
      Investments until the Initial Stock Purchase Date;

            (c) the Pledged Series A Trust Preferred Securities and the Pledged
      Series A Treasury Securities shall be transferred to the Company on the
      Initial Stock Purchase Date as provided in Section 5.07 hereof. Any
      balance remaining in the Series A Collateral Account on the Initial Stock
      Purchase Date shall be released from the Pledge by the Collateral Agent,
      and the Collateral Agent shall instruct the Securities Intermediary to,
      and the Securities Intermediary shall, Transfer to the Stock Purchase
      Contract Agent such balance for the benefit of the applicable Holders for
      distribution to such Holders in accordance with their respective
      interests, free and clear of the Pledge created thereby;

            (d) all payments of liquidation amounts or principal received by the
      Securities Intermediary in respect of (x) the Pledged Series B Trust
      Preferred Securities and (y) the Pledged Series B Treasury Securities
      shall be held in the Series B Collateral Account and invested in Permitted
      Investments until the Subsequent Stock Purchase Date;

            (e) the Pledged Series B Trust Preferred Securities and the Pledged
      Series B Treasury Securities shall be transferred to the Company on the
      Subsequent Stock Purchase Date as provided in Section 5.07 hereof. Any
      balance remaining in the Series B Collateral Account on the Subsequent
      Stock Purchase Date shall be released from the Pledge by the Collateral
      Agent, and the Collateral Agent shall instruct the Securities Intermediary
      to, and the Securities Intermediary shall, Transfer to the Stock Purchase
      Contract Agent such balance for the benefit of the applicable Holders for
      distribution to such Holders in accordance with their respective
      interests, free and clear of the Pledge created thereby;

            (f) The Company shall instruct the Collateral Agent in writing as to
      the Permitted Investments in which any payments made under this Section
      3.03(a) shall be invested; provided, however, that if the Company fails to
      deliver such instructions by 10:30 a.m. (New York City time) on the day
      such payments are received by the Collateral Agent, the Collateral Agent
      shall invest such payments in the Permitted Investments as described in
      clause (6) of the definition of Permitted Investments. The Collateral
      Agent shall have no liability in respect of losses incurred as a result of
      the failure of the Company to provide written investment direction. The
      Collateral Agent may conclusively rely on any written direction and shall
      bear no liability for any loss or other damage based on acting or omitting
      to act under this Section 3.03 pursuant to any direction of the Company
      and neither the Collateral Agent nor the Securities Intermediary shall in
      any way be liable for the selection of Permitted Investments or by reason
      of any insufficiency in a Collateral Account resulting from any loss on
      any Permitted Investment included therein.

            (g) All payments of liquidation amounts or principal received by the
      Securities Intermediary in respect of (1) the Trust Preferred Securities
      and (2) the

                                       8

Treasury Securities or security entitlements thereto, that, in each case,
      have been released from a Pledge pursuant hereto shall be transferred to
      the Stock Purchase Contract Agent for the benefit of the applicable
      Holders for distribution to such Holders in accordance with their
      respective interests.

            (h) In the event of a Failed Remarketing (other than a Final Failed
      Remarketing) with respect to the Series A Trust Preferred Securities,
      principal payments received by the Securities Intermediary in respect of
      the Pledged Series A Treasury Securities shall be invested in Treasury
      Securities maturing on the next Applicable Remarketing Settlement Date for
      the Series A Trust Preferred Securities in a principal amount equal to the
      aggregate stated amount of the related Stripped Common Equity Units, which
      Treasury Securities shall be considered Pledged Series A Treasury
      Securities for the purpose of this Agreement. The Collateral Agent shall
      remit any remaining funds, after application of principal payments
      received in respect of Series A Treasury Securities to purchase new Series
      A Treasury Securities, to the Stock Purchase Contract Agent who shall
      remit such funds to the Holders of the related Stripped Common Equity
      Units on a pro rata basis.

            (d) In the event of a Failed Remarketing (other than a Final Failed
Remarketing) with respect to the Series B Trust Preferred Securities, principal
payments received by the Securities Intermediary in respect of the Pledged
Series B Treasury Securities shall be invested in Treasury Securities maturing
on the next Applicable Remarketing Settlement Date for the Series B Trust
Preferred Securities in a principal amount equal to the aggregate stated amount
of the related Stripped Common Equity Units, which Treasury Securities shall be
considered Pledged Series B Treasury Securities for the purpose of this
Agreement. The Collateral Agent shall remit any remaining funds, after
application of principal payments received in respect of Series B Treasury
Securities to purchase new Series B Treasury Securities, to the Stock Purchase
Contract Agent who shall remit such funds to the Holders of the related Stripped
Common Equity Units on a pro rata basis.

            SECTION 3.04. Payments to Stock Purchase Contract Agent.

            The Securities Intermediary shall use commercially reasonable
efforts to deliver payments to the Stock Purchase Contract Agent hereunder, to
the extent it has received the same, to the account designated by the Stock
Purchase Contract Agent for such purpose not later than 11:00 a.m. (New York
City time) on the Business Day such payment is received by the Securities
Intermediary; provided, however, that if such payment is received by the
Securities Intermediary on a day that is not a Business Day or after 10:00 a.m.
(New York City time) on a Business Day, then the Securities Intermediary shall
use commercially reasonable efforts to deliver such payment to the Stock
Purchase Contract Agent no later than 10:30 a.m. (New York City time) on the
next succeeding Business Day. Notwithstanding the foregoing, if the Securities
Intermediary is required to deliver payments to the Stock Purchase Contract
Agent on a Business Day that is in the next calendar year, then the Securities
Intermediary shall use commercially reasonable efforts to deliver such payment
to the Stock Purchase Contract Agent no later than 10:30 am (New York City time)
on the immediately preceding Business Day; provided that such payment is
received by the Securities Intermediary on or before 9:00 am (New York City
time) on that Business Day.

                                       9

SECTION 3.05. Assets Not Properly Released.

            If the Stock Purchase Contract Agent or any Holder shall receive any
principal payments on account of financial assets credited to either Collateral
Account and not released therefrom in accordance with this Agreement, the Stock
Purchase Contract Agent or such Holder shall hold the same as trustee of an
express trust for the benefit of the Company and, upon receipt of an Officers'
Certificate of the Company so directing, promptly deliver the same to the
Securities Intermediary for credit to the applicable Collateral Account or to
the Company for application to the Obligations of the Holders, and the Stock
Purchase Contract Agent and Holders shall acquire no right, title or interest in
any such payments of principal amounts so received. The Stock Purchase Contract
Agent shall have no liability under this Section 3.05 unless and until it has
been notified in writing that such payment was delivered to it erroneously and
shall have no liability for any action taken, suffered or omitted to be taken
prior to its receipt of such notice.

                                   ARTICLE IV

                                     CONTROL

            SECTION 4.01. Establishment of Collateral Account.

            The Securities Intermediary hereby confirms that:

            (a) the Securities Intermediary has established the Series A
      Collateral Account and the Series B Collateral Account and its records
      identify the Collateral Agent as the sole person having a securities
      entitlement against the Securities Intermediary with respect to each such
      Collateral Account;

            (b) each of the Series A Collateral Account and the Series B
      Collateral Account is a securities account;

            (c) subject to the terms of this Agreement, the Securities
      Intermediary shall identify in its records the Collateral Agent as the
      entitlement Holder entitled to exercise the rights that comprise any
      financial asset credited to the Series A Collateral Account or the Series
      B Collateral Account;

            (d) all property delivered to the Securities Intermediary pursuant
      to this Agreement or the Stock Purchase Contract Agreement, including any
      Permitted Investments, will be credited promptly to the applicable
      Collateral Account; and

            (e) all securities or other property underlying any financial assets
      credited to a Collateral Account shall be (i) registered in the name of
      the Stock Purchase Contract Agent and endorsed to the Securities
      Intermediary or in blank, (ii) registered in the name of the Securities
      Intermediary or (iii) credited to another securities account maintained in
      the name of the Securities Intermediary. In no case will any financial
      asset credited to a Collateral Account be registered in the name of the
      Stock Purchase Contract Agent or any Holder or specially endorsed to the
      Stock Purchase Contract Agent or any Holder unless such financial asset
      has been further endorsed to the Securities Intermediary or in blank.

                                       10

SECTION 4.02. Treatment as Financial Assets.

            Each item of property (whether investment property, financial asset,
security, instrument or cash) credited to a Collateral Account shall be treated
as a financial asset.

            SECTION 4.03. Sole Control by Collateral Agent.

            Except as provided in Section 6.01, at all times prior to the
termination of the Pledge, the Collateral Agent shall have sole control of each
Collateral Account, and the Securities Intermediary shall take instructions and
directions with respect to each Collateral Account solely from the Collateral
Agent. If at any time the Securities Intermediary shall receive an entitlement
order issued by the Collateral Agent and relating to a Collateral Account, the
Securities Intermediary shall comply with such entitlement order without further
consent by the Stock Purchase Contract Agent or any Holder or any other Person.
Except as otherwise permitted under this Agreement, until termination of the
Pledge, the Securities Intermediary will not comply with any entitlement orders
issued by the Stock Purchase Contract Agent or any Holder.

            SECTION 4.04. Securities Intermediary's Location.

            The Series A Collateral Account, the Series B Collateral Account,
and the rights and obligations of the Securities Intermediary, the Collateral
Agent, the Stock Purchase Contract Agent and the Holders with respect thereto,
shall be governed by the laws of the State of New York. Regardless of any
provision in any other agreement, for purposes of the UCC, New York shall be
deemed to be the Securities Intermediary's jurisdiction.

            SECTION 4.05. No Other Claims.

            Except for the claims and interest of the Collateral Agent and of
the Stock Purchase Contract Agent and the Holders in the Series A Collateral
Account and the Series B Collateral Account, the Securities Intermediary
(without having conducted any investigation) does not know of any claim to, or
interest in, the Series A Collateral Account or the Series B Collateral Account
or in any financial asset credited thereto. If any Person asserts any lien,
encumbrance or adverse claim (including any writ, garnishment, judgment, warrant
of attachment, execution or similar process) against the Series A Collateral
Account or the Series B Collateral Account or in any financial asset carried
therein, the Securities Intermediary will promptly notify the Collateral Agent
and the Stock Purchase Contract Agent.

            SECTION 4.06. Investment and Release.

            All proceeds of financial assets from time to time deposited in the
Series A Collateral Account or the Series B Collateral Account shall be invested
and reinvested as provided in this Agreement. At no time prior to termination of
the Pledge with respect to any particular property shall such property be
released from the Series A Collateral Account or the Series B Collateral Account
except in accordance with this Agreement or upon written instructions of the
Collateral Agent.

            SECTION 4.07. Statements and Confirmations.

                                       11

The Securities Intermediary will promptly send copies of all
statements, confirmations and other correspondence concerning the Series A
Collateral Account or the Series B Collateral Account and any financial assets
credited thereto simultaneously to each of the Stock Purchase Contract Agent,
the Company and the Collateral Agent at their addresses for notices under this
Agreement.

            SECTION 4.08. Tax Allocations.

            The Stock Purchase Contract Agent shall perform all customary tax
reporting with respect to all items of income, gain, expense and loss recognized
in the Series A Collateral Account and the Series B Collateral Account, to the
extent such reporting is required bylaw, to the Internal Revenue Service
authorities in the manner required by law. None of the Securities Intermediary,
the Custodial Agent or the Collateral Agent shall have any tax reporting duties
hereunder.

            SECTION 4.09. No Other Agreements.

            The Securities Intermediary has not entered into, and prior to the
termination of the Pledge will not enter into, any agreement with any other
Person relating to the Series A Collateral Account or the Series B Collateral
Account or any financial assets credited thereto, including, without limitation,
any agreement to comply with entitlement orders of any Person other than the
Collateral Agent.

            SECTION 4.10. Powers Coupled with an Interest.

            The rights and powers granted in this Article IV to the Collateral
Agent have been granted in order to perfect its security interests in the Series
A Collateral Account and the Series B Collateral Account, are powers coupled
with an interest and will be affected neither by the bankruptcy of the Stock
Purchase Contract Agent or any Holder nor by the lapse of time. The obligations
of the Securities Intermediary under this Article IV shall continue in effect
until the termination of the Pledge with respect to any and all Collateral.

            SECTION 4.11. Waiver of Lien; Waiver of Set-off.

            The Securities Intermediary waives any security interest, lien or
right to make deductions or set- offs that it may now have or hereafter acquire
in or with respect to the Series A Collateral Account or the Series B Collateral
Account, any financial asset credited thereto or any security entitlement in
respect thereof. Neither the financial assets credited to the Series A
Collateral Account or the Series B Collateral Account nor the security
entitlements in respect thereof will be subject to deduction, set-off, banker's
lien or any other right in favor of any person other than the Company.

                                   ARTICLE V

          INITIAL DEPOSIT; CREATION OF STRIPPED COMMON EQUITY UNITS AND
                    RECREATION OF NORMAL COMMON EQUITY UNITS

            SECTION 5.01. Initial Deposit of Trust Preferred Securities.

                                       12

(a) Prior to or concurrently with the execution and delivery of this
      Agreement, the Stock Purchase Contract Agent, on behalf of the initial
      Holders of the Normal Common Equity Units, shall Transfer to the
      Collateral Agent, for credit to the Series A Collateral Account, the
      Series A Trust Preferred Securities or security entitlements relating
      thereto, and, for credit to the Series B Collateral Account, the Series B
      Trust Preferred Securities or security entitlements relating thereto and,
      the Securities Intermediary shall thereupon indicate by book-entry that
      such Trust Preferred Securities, regardless of whether received by the
      Securities Intermediary in the form of certified securities effectively
      indorsed in blank or as security entitlements, have been credited to the
      applicable Collateral Account.

            (b) The Securities Intermediary may, at any time or from time to
      time, cause any or all securities or other property underlying any
      financial assets credited to the Series A Collateral Account or the Series
      B Collateral Account to be registered in the name of the Securities
      Intermediary, the Collateral Agent or their respective nominees; provided,
      however, that unless any Event of Default (defined in the Trust Agreement
      relating to the relevant series of Trust Preferred Securities) shall have
      occurred and be continuing, the Securities Intermediary agrees not to
      cause any Trust Preferred Securities to be so re-registered.

            SECTION 5.02. Creation of Stripped Common Equity Units.

            (a) A Holder of Normal Common Equity Units shall have the right, at
      any time on or prior to 5:00 p.m. (New York City time) on the seventh
      Business Day immediately preceding any Applicable Remarketing Settlement
      Date, to create Stripped Common Equity Units by substitution of Treasury
      Securities or security entitlements with respect thereto for the Pledged
      Series A Trust Preferred Securities (if any) and Pledged Series B Trust
      Preferred Securities then comprising a part of all or a portion of such
      Holder's Normal Common Equity Units, in integral multiples of 80 Normal
      Common Equity Units, by:

            (A) Transferring to the Stock Purchase Contract Agent, for further
      Transfer to the Securities Intermediary for credit to the Collateral
      Account, Series A Treasury Securities or security entitlements with
      respect thereto having a Value equal to the aggregate liquidation amount
      of the Pledged Series A Trust Preferred Securities (if any) to be released
      and Series B Treasury Securities or security entitlements with respect
      thereto having a Value equal to the aggregate liquidation amount of the
      Pledged Series B Trust Preferred Securities to be released, accompanied by
      a notice, substantially in the form of Exhibit C to the Stock Purchase
      Contract Agreement, whereupon the Stock Purchase Contract Agent shall
      deliver to the Collateral Agent a notice, substantially in the form of
      Exhibit A hereto, (A) stating that such Holder has notified the Stock
      Purchase Contract Agent that such Holder has Transferred Treasury
      Securities or security entitlements with respect thereto to the Stock
      Purchase Contract Agent for further Transfer to the Securities
      Intermediary for credit to the applicable Collateral Account, (B) stating
      the Value of the Treasury Securities or security entitlements with respect
      thereto Transferred by such Holder and (C) requesting that the Collateral
      Agent instruct the Securities Intermediary to accept such Transfer of
      Treasury Securities and to release

                                       13

from the Pledge to the Stock Purchase Contract Agent as attorney-in-fact
      of the such Holder an equal Value of Pledged Series A Trust Preferred
      Securities (if any) and an equal Value of Pledged Series B Trust Preferred
      Securities that are then a component of such Normal Common Equity Units;
      and

            (B) delivering the related Normal Common Equity Units to the Stock
      Purchase Contract Agent.

            Upon receipt of such notice, giving of instructions to the
Securities Intermediary that such Transfer be accepted and confirmation that
Treasury Securities or security entitlements with respect thereto have been
credited to the Series A Collateral Account (if applicable) and Series B
Collateral Account as described in such notice, the Collateral Agent shall
instruct the Securities Intermediary by a notice, substantially in the form of
Exhibit B hereto, to release such Pledged Series A Trust Preferred Securities
(if any) and Pledged Series B Trust Preferred Securities from the Pledge by
Transfer to the Stock Purchase Contract Agent for distribution to such Holder,
free and clear of the Pledge created hereby.

            (b) Upon credit to the Series A Collateral Account (if applicable)
      of Series A Treasury Securities and to the Series B Collateral Account of
      Series B Treasury Securities or security entitlements with respect thereto
      delivered by a Holder of Normal Common Equity Units and receipt of the
      related instruction from the Collateral Agent, the Securities Intermediary
      shall release the Pledged Series A Trust Preferred Securities (if any) and
      Pledged Series B Trust Preferred Securities from the Pledge and shall
      promptly Transfer the same to the Stock Purchase Contract Agent for
      distribution to such Holder, free and clear of the Pledge created hereby.

            SECTION 5.03. Recreation of Normal Common Equity Units.

            (a) At any time on or prior to 5:00 p.m. (New York City time) on the
      seventh Business Day immediately preceding any Applicable Remarketing
      Settlement Date, a Holder of Stripped Common Equity Units shall have the
      right to recreate Normal Common Equity Units by substitution of Trust
      Preferred Securities or security entitlements with respect thereto for
      Pledged Treasury Securities in integral multiples of 80 Stripped Common
      Equity Units by:

            (A) Transferring to the Stock Purchase Contract Agent for further
      Transfer to the Securities Intermediary, for credit to the Series A
      Collateral Account, Series A Trust Preferred Securities or security
      entitlements with respect thereto having an aggregate liquidation amount
      equal to the Value of the Pledged Series A Treasury Securities (if any) to
      be released, and Transferring to the Stock Purchase Contract Agent for
      further Transfer to the Securities Intermediary, for credit to the Series
      B Collateral Account, Series B Trust Preferred Securities or security
      entitlements with respect thereto having an aggregate liquidation amount
      equal to the Value of the Pledged Series B Treasury Securities to be
      released, accompanied by a notice, substantially in the form of Exhibit C
      to the Stock Purchase Contract Agreement, whereupon the Stock Purchase
      Contract Agent shall deliver to the Collateral Agent a notice,
      substantially in the form of Exhibit C hereto, stating that such Holder
      has Transferred the Series A Trust Preferred Securities or

                                       14

security entitlements with respect thereto to the Stock Purchase Contract
      Agent for further Transfer to the Securities Intermediary for credit to
      the Series A Collateral Account and has Transferred the Series B Trust
      Preferred Securities or security entitlements with respect thereto to the
      Securities Intermediary for credit to the Series B Collateral Account and
      requesting that the Collateral Agent instruct the Securities Intermediary
      accept such Transfer and to release from the Pledge to the Stock Purchase
      Contract Agent an Equal Value of the Pledged Series A Treasury Securities
      and Pledged Series B Treasury Securities related to such Stripped Common
      Equity Units; and

            (B) delivering the related Stripped Common Equity Units to the Stock
      Purchase Contract Agent.

            Upon receipt of such notice, the giving of instructions to the
Securities Intermediary that such Transfer be accepted and confirmation that
Series A Trust Preferred Securities or security entitlements with respect
thereto have been credited to the Series A Collateral Account and Series B Trust
Preferred Securities or security entitlements with respect thereto have been
credited to the Series B Collateral Account as described in such notice, the
Collateral Agent shall instruct the Securities Intermediary by a notice
substantially in the form of Exhibit D hereto to release such Pledged Series A
Treasury Securities and Pledged Series B Treasury Securities from the Pledge by
Transfer to the Stock Purchase Contract Agent for distribution to such Holder,
free and clear of the Pledge created hereby.

            (b) Upon credit to the Collateral Account of Trust Preferred
      Securities or security entitlements with respect thereto delivered by a
      Holder of Stripped Common Equity Units and receipt of the related
      instruction from the Collateral Agent, the Securities Intermediary shall
      release such Pledged Treasury Securities from the Pledge and shall
      promptly Transfer the same to the Stock Purchase Contract Agent for
      distribution to such Holder, free and clear of the Pledge created hereby.

            SECTION 5.04. Termination Event.

            (a) Upon receipt by the Collateral Agent of written notice from the
      Company or the Stock Purchase Contract Agent that a Termination Event has
      occurred, the Collateral Agent shall release all Collateral from the
      Pledge and shall promptly instruct the Securities Intermediary to
      Transfer:

            (A) any Pledged Trust Preferred Securities or security entitlements
      with respect thereto;

            (B) any Pledged Treasury Securities or security entitlements with
      respect thereto; and

            (C) any payments by Holders (or the Permitted Investments of such
      payments) pursuant to Section 5.05 hereof,

to the Stock Purchase Contract Agent for the benefit of the Holders for
distribution to such Holders, in accordance with their respective interests,
free and clear of the Pledge created hereby.

                                       15

(b) If such Termination Event shall result from the Company's
      becoming a debtor under the Bankruptcy Code, and if the Collateral Agent
      shall for any reason fail promptly to effectuate the release and Transfer
      of all Pledged Trust Preferred Securities, Pledged Treasury Securities and
      payments by Holders (or the Permitted Investments of such payments)
      pursuant to Section 5.05 and Proceeds of any of the foregoing, as the case
      may be, as provided by this Section 5.04, the Stock Purchase Contract
      Agent shall:

            (A) use its best efforts to obtain an opinion of a nationally
      recognized law firm to the effect that, notwithstanding the Company being
      the debtor in such a bankruptcy case, the Collateral Agent will not be
      prohibited from releasing or Transferring the Collateral as provided in
      this Section 5.04 and shall deliver or cause to be delivered such opinion
      to the Collateral Agent within ten days after the occurrence of such
      Termination Event, and if (A) the Stock Purchase Contract Agent shall be
      unable to obtain such opinion within ten days after the occurrence of such
      Termination Event or (B) the Collateral Agent shall continue, after
      delivery of such opinion, to refuse to effectuate the release and Transfer
      of all Pledged Trust Preferred Securities, Pledged Treasury Securities and
      the payments by Holders (or the Permitted Investments of such payments)
      pursuant to Section 5.05 hereof and Proceeds of any of the foregoing, as
      the case may be, as provided in this Section 5.04, then the Stock Purchase
      Contract Agent shall, upon receipt of instructions in accordance with the
      Stock Purchase Contract Agreement, within fifteen days after the
      occurrence of such Termination Event commence an action or proceeding in
      the court having jurisdiction of the Company's case under the Bankruptcy
      Code seeking an order requiring the Collateral Agent to effectuate the
      release and transfer of all Pledged Trust Preferred Securities, Pledged
      Treasury Securities and the payments by Holders (or the Permitted
      Investments of such payments) pursuant to Section 5.05 hereof and Proceeds
      of any of the foregoing, or as the case may be, as provided by this
      Section 5.04; or

            (B) upon receipt of instructions in accordance with the Stock
      Purchase Contract Agreement, commence an action or proceeding like that
      described in Section 5.04(b)(i) hereof within ten days after the
      occurrence of such Termination Event.

            SECTION 5.05. Cash Settlement.

            (a) Upon (1) receipt by the Collateral Agent of a notice from the
      Stock Purchase Contract Agent promptly after the receipt by the Stock
      Purchase Contract Agent of a notice from a Holder of Normal Common Equity
      Units that such Holder has elected, in accordance with the procedures
      specified in Section 5.02(b)(i) of the Stock Purchase Contract Agreement,
      to effect a Cash Settlement and (2) receipt from such Holder by the
      Securities Intermediary for credit to the applicable Collateral Account on
      or prior to 5:00 p.m. (New York City time) on the fourth Business Day
      immediately preceding the applicable Stock Purchase Date of the applicable
      Purchase Price in lawful money of the United States by certified or
      cashier's check or wire transfer of immediately available funds payable to
      or upon the order of the Securities Intermediary, then the Collateral
      Agent shall instruct the Securities Intermediary promptly to invest any
      such Cash in Permitted Investments maturing on the Stock Purchase Date.

                                       16

The Company shall instruct the Collateral Agent in writing as to the
Permitted Investments in which any such Cash shall be invested; provided,
however, that if the Company fails to deliver such written instructions by 10:30
a.m. (New York City time) on the day such Cash is received by the Collateral
Agent or to be reinvested by the Securities Intermediary, the Collateral Agent
shall instruct the Securities Intermediary to invest such Cash in the Permitted
Investments described in clause (6) of the definition of Permitted Investments.
The Collateral Agent may conclusively rely on any written direction and shall
bear no liability for any loss or other damage based on acting or omitting to
act under this Section 5.05 pursuant to any direction of the Company and in no
event shall the Collateral Agent or Securities Intermediary be liable for the
selection of Permitted Investments or for investment losses incurred thereon.
The Collateral Agent and Securities Intermediary shall have no liability with
respect to losses incurred as a result of the failure of the Company to provide
written investment direction.

            In the event of a Successful Remarketing, upon receipt of Proceeds
upon the maturity of the Permitted Investments on a Stock Purchase Date, the
Collateral Agent shall (A) instruct the Securities Intermediary to pay the
portion of such Proceeds and deliver any certified or cashier's checks received,
in an aggregate amount equal to the Purchase Price, to the Company on the Stock
Purchase Date, and (B) release any amounts in excess of the Purchase Price
earned from such Permitted Investments to the Stock Purchase Contract Agent for
distribution to the Holders in accordance with the Stock Purchase Contract
Agreement.

            (b) If a Holder of Normal Common Equity Units (i) fails to notify
      the Stock Purchase Contract Agent of its intention to make a Cash
      Settlement as provided in Section 5.02(b)(i) of the Stock Purchase
      Contract Agreement or (ii) does notify the Stock Purchase Contract Agent
      of its intention to pay the Purchase Price in cash, but fails to make such
      payment as required by Section 5.02(b)(ii) of the Stock Purchase Contract
      Agreement, such Holder shall be deemed to have consented to the
      disposition of such Holder's Pledged Trust Preferred Securities in
      accordance with Section 5.02(b)(iii) of the Stock Purchase Contract
      Agreement.

            (c) As soon as practicable after 5:00 p.m. (New York City time) on
      the fourth Business Day immediately preceding the applicable Stock
      Purchase Date, the Collateral Agent shall deliver to the Stock Purchase
      Contract Agent a notice, substantially in the form of Exhibit E hereto,
      stating (i) the amount of Cash that it has received with respect to the
      Cash Settlement of Normal Common Equity Units and (ii) the amount of
      Pledged Trust Preferred Securities to be remarketed in the applicable
      Remarketing pursuant to Section 5.02(a) of the Stock Purchase Contract
      Agreement, of the series that is to be remarketed in the applicable
      Remarketing.

            (d) In the event of a Failed Remarketing, the Collateral Agent shall
      (i) promptly return the Cash that it has received with respect to the Cash
      Settlement of Normal Common Equity Units to the Stock Purchase Contract
      Agent for distribution to Holders who elected to effect a Cash Settlement
      and (ii) as soon as practicable after 5:00 p.m. (New York City time) on
      the Business Day immediately preceding the applicable Stock Purchase Date,
      deliver to the Stock Purchase Contract Agent a notice, stating (A) the
      amount of Cash that it has received and returned with respect to the Cash
      Settlement of Normal Common Equity Units and (B) the amount of Pledged
      Trust

                                       17

Preferred Securities of the series subject to the Failed Remarketing in
      the Collateral Account.

            (e) In the event of a Successful Remarketing, the Collateral Agent
      shall (i) instruct the Securities Intermediary to release from the Pledge
      such Holder's related Pledged Trust Preferred Securities of the series
      subject to the Successful Remarketing as to which such Holder has effected
      a Cash Settlement pursuant to Section 5.05(a), and (ii) instruct the
      Securities Intermediary to Transfer all such Pledged Trust Preferred
      Securities of the series subject to the Successful Remarketing to the
      Stock Purchase Contract Agent for distribution to such Holder free and
      clear of the Pledge created hereby.

            SECTION 5.06. Early Settlement and Cash Merger Early Settlement.

            Upon receipt by the Collateral Agent of a notice from the Stock
Purchase Contract Agent that a Holder of Common Equity Units has elected to
effect either (i) Early Settlement of its obligations under the Stock Purchase
Contracts forming a part of such Common Equity Units in accordance with the
terms of the Stock Purchase Contracts and Section 5.07 of the Stock Purchase
Contract Agreement or (ii) Cash Merger Early Settlement of its obligations under
the Stock Purchase Contracts forming a part of such Common Equity Units in
accordance with the terms of the Stock Purchase Contracts and Section
5.04(b)(ii) of the Stock Purchase Contract Agreement (which notice shall set
forth the number of such Stock Purchase Contracts as to which such Holder has
elected to effect Early Settlement or Cash Merger Early Settlement), and that
the Stock Purchase Contract Agent has received from such Holder, and paid to the
Company as confirmed in writing by the Company, the related Purchase Price
pursuant to the terms of the Stock Purchase Contracts and the Stock Purchase
Contract Agreement, then the Collateral Agent shall release from the Pledge, (1)
Pledged Trust Preferred Securities in the case of a Holder of Normal Common
Equity Units or (2) Pledged Treasury Securities, in the case of a Holder of
Stripped Common Equity Units, in each case with a Value equal to the product of
(x) the Stated Amount times (y) the number of Stock Purchase Contracts as to
which such Holder has elected to effect Early Settlement or Cash Merger Early
Settlement, and shall instruct the Securities Intermediary to Transfer all such
Pledged Trust Preferred Securities or Pledged Treasury Securities, as the case
may be, to the Stock Purchase Contract Agent for distribution to such Holder, in
each case free and clear of the Pledge created hereby. A holder of Stripped
Common Equity Units may settle early only in integral multiples of 80 Stripped
Common Equity Units, and a Holder of Normal Common Equity Units may settle early
only in integral multiples of 80 Normal Common Equity Units.

            SECTION 5.07. Application of Proceeds in Settlement of Stock
Purchase Contracts.

            (a) If a Holder of Normal Common Equity Units has not elected to
      make an effective Cash Settlement by notifying the Stock Purchase Contract
      Agent in the manner provided for in Section 5.02(b)(i) of the Stock
      Purchase Contract Agreement or does notify the Stock Purchase Contract
      Agent as provided in paragraph 5.02(b)(i) of the Stock Purchase Contract
      Agreement of its intention to pay the Purchase Price in Cash, but fails to
      make such payment as required by paragraph 5.02(b)(ii) of the Stock
      Purchase

                                       18

Contract Agreement, such Holder shall be deemed to have elected to pay for
      the shares of Common Stock to be issued under such Stock Purchase
      Contracts from the Proceeds of the Remarketing of the related Pledged
      Trust Preferred Securities.

            In the event of a Successful Remarketing, the Collateral Agent shall
instruct the Securities Intermediary to Transfer the related Pledged Trust
Preferred Securities to the Remarketing Agent, upon confirmation of deposit by
the Remarketing Agent of the Proceeds of such Successful Remarketing (less, to
the extent permitted by the Remarketing Agreement, the Remarketing Fee) in the
Collateral Account. The Collateral Agent shall instruct the Securities
Intermediary to invest the Proceeds of the Successful Remarketing in Permitted
Investments set forth in clause (6) of the definition of Permitted Investments.
On the Stock Purchase Date, the Collateral Agent shall instruct the Securities
Intermediary to remit a portion of the Proceeds from such Successful Remarketing
equal to the aggregate liquidation amount of such Pledged Trust Preferred
Securities to satisfy in full such Holder's obligations to pay the Purchase
Price to purchase the shares of Common Stock under the related Stock Purchase
Contracts and to remit the balance of the Proceeds from the Successful
Remarketing, if any, to the Stock Purchase Contract Agent for distribution to
such Holder.

            In the event of a Final Failed Remarketing with respect to the
Series A Trust Preferred Securities, the Collateral Agent, for the benefit of
the Company, will, at the written instruction of the Company, deliver or dispose
of the Pledged Series A Trust Preferred Securities in accordance with the
Company's written instructions to satisfy in full, from any such disposition or
retention, such Holders' obligations to pay the Purchase Price for the shares of
Common Stock to be issued on the Initial Stock Purchase Date under the Stock
Purchase Contracts underlying such Normal Common Equity Units. Thereafter, the
Collateral Agent shall promptly remit the Proceeds in excess of the aggregate
Purchase Price for the shares of Common Stock to be issued on the Initial Stock
Purchase Date under such Stock Purchase Contracts to the Stock Purchase Contract
Agent for payment to the Holders of the Normal Common Equity Units to which such
Series A Trust Preferred Securities relate.

            In the event of a Final Failed Remarketing with respect to the
Series B Trust Preferred Securities, the Collateral Agent, for the benefit of
the Company, will, at the written instruction of the Company, deliver or dispose
of the Pledged Series B Trust Preferred Securities in accordance with the
Company's written instructions to satisfy in full, from any such disposition or
retention, such Holders' obligations to pay the Purchase Price for the shares of
Common Stock to be issued on the Subsequent Stock Purchase Date under the Stock
Purchase Contracts underlying such Normal Common Equity Units. Thereafter, the
Collateral Agent shall promptly remit the Proceeds in excess of the aggregate
Purchase Price for the shares of Common Stock to be issued on the Subsequent
Stock Purchase Date under such Stock Purchase Contracts to the Stock Purchase
Contract Agent for payment to the Holders of the Normal Common Equity Units to
which such Series B Trust Preferred Securities relate.

            (b) A Holder of a Stripped Common Equity Unit shall be deemed to
      have elected to pay for the shares of Common Stock to be issued under the
      Stock Purchase Contract underlying the Stripped Common Equity Unit from
      the Proceeds of the related Pledged Treasury Securities. Without receiving
      any instruction from any Holder, the Collateral Agent shall instruct the
      Securities Intermediary (i) to remit the Proceeds of the

                                       19

related Pledged Series A Treasury Securities to the Company in settlement
      of such Stock Purchase Contracts on the Initial Stock Purchase Date and
      (ii) to remit the Proceeds of the related Pledged Series B Treasury
      Securities to the Company in settlement of such Stock Purchase Contracts
      on the Subsequent Stock Purchase Date. In the event the sum of the
      Proceeds from the related Pledged Treasury Securities exceeds the
      aggregate Purchase Price of the Stock Purchase Contracts being settled
      thereby, the Collateral Agent shall instruct the Securities Intermediary
      to transfer such excess, when received, to the Stock Purchase Contract
      Agent for distribution to Holders.

            (c) On or prior to 5:00 p.m. (New York City time) on the fifth
      Business Day immediately preceding an applicable Remarketing Date, but no
      earlier than the Payment Date immediately preceding such date, Holders of
      Separate Trust Preferred Securities of the series of Trust Preferred
      Securities that is the subject of a remarketing may elect to have their
      Separate Trust Preferred Securities remarketed under the Remarketing
      Agreement, by delivering their Separate Trust Preferred Securities along
      with a notice of such election, substantially in the form of Exhibit F
      hereto, to the Collateral Agent, acting as Custodial Agent. Any such
      notice and delivery may not be conditioned upon the level at which the
      Reset Rate for either series of Trust Preferred Securities is established
      in the Remarketing or any other condition. The Custodial Agent, shall hold
      Separate Trust Preferred Securities in an account separate from the
      applicable Collateral Account in which the Pledged Securities shall be
      held. Holders of Separate Trust Preferred Securities electing to have
      their Separate Trust Preferred Securities remarketed will also have the
      right to withdraw that election by written notice to the Collateral Agent,
      substantially in the form of Exhibit G hereto, on or prior to 5:00 p.m.
      (New York City time) on the fifth Business Day immediately preceding the
      applicable Remarketing Date, upon which notice the Custodial Agent shall
      return such Separate Trust Preferred Securities to such Holder. After such
      time, such election shall become an irrevocable election to have such
      Separate Trust Preferred Securities remarketed in such Remarketing.

            Promptly after 11:00 a.m. (New York City time) on the Business Day
immediately preceding the applicable Remarketing Date, the Custodial Agent shall
notify the Remarketing Agent of the aggregate liquidation amount of the Separate
Trust Preferred Securities to be remarketed and deliver to the Remarketing Agent
for remarketing all Separate Trust Preferred Securities delivered to the
Custodial Agent pursuant to this Section 5.07(c) and not validly withdrawn prior
to such date. In the event of a Successful Remarketing, after deducting the
Remarketing Fee, the Remarketing Agent will remit to the Custodial Agent the
remaining portion of the Proceeds of such Remarketing for payment to the Holders
of the remarketed Separate Trust Preferred Securities, in accordance with their
respective interests. In the event of a Failed Remarketing, the Remarketing
Agent will promptly return such Separate Trust Preferred Securities to the
Custodial Agent for distribution to the appropriate Holders.

                                   ARTICLE VI

              VOTING RIGHTS -- PLEDGED TRUST PREFERRED SECURITIES

            SECTION 6.01. Voting Rights.

                                       20

Subject to the terms of Section 4.02 of the Stock Purchase Contract
Agreement, the Stock Purchase Contract Agent may exercise, or refrain from
exercising, any and all voting and other consensual rights pertaining to the
Pledged Trust Preferred Securities or any part thereof for any purpose not
inconsistent with the terms of this Agreement and in accordance with the terms
of the Stock Purchase Contract Agreement; provided that the Stock Purchase
Contract Agent shall give the Company and the Collateral Agent at least five
Business Days' prior written notice of the manner in which it intends to
exercise, or its reasons for refraining from exercising, any such right. Upon
receipt of any notices and other communications in respect of any Pledged Trust
Preferred Securities, including notice of any meeting at which holders of the
Trust Preferred Securities are entitled to vote or solicitation of consents,
waivers or proxies of holders of the Trust Preferred Securities, the Collateral
Agent shall use reasonable efforts to send promptly to the Stock Purchase
Contract Agent such notice or communication, and as soon as reasonably
practicable after receipt of a written request therefore from the Stock Purchase
Contract Agent, execute and deliver to the Stock Purchase Contract Agent such
proxies and other instruments in respect of such Pledged Trust Preferred
Securities (in form and substance satisfactory to the Collateral Agent) as are
prepared by the Company and delivered to the Stock Purchase Contract Agent with
respect to the Pledged Trust Preferred Securities.

                                  ARTICLE VII

                               RIGHTS AND REMEDIES

            SECTION 7.01. Rights and Remedies of the Collateral Agent.

            (a) In addition to the rights and remedies specified in Section 5.07
      hereof or otherwise available at law or in equity, after an event of
      default (as specified in Section 7.01(b) below) hereunder, the Collateral
      Agent shall have all of the rights and remedies with respect to the
      Collateral of a secured party under the UCC (whether or not the UCC is in
      effect in the jurisdiction where the rights and remedies are asserted) and
      the Trades Regulations and such additional rights and remedies to which a
      secured party is entitled under the laws in effect in any jurisdiction
      where any rights and remedies hereunder may be asserted. Without limiting
      the generality of the foregoing, such remedies may include, to the extent
      permitted by applicable law, (1) retention of the Pledged Trust Preferred
      Securities or the Pledged Treasury Securities in full satisfaction of the
      Holders' obligations under the Stock Purchase Contracts and the Stock
      Purchase Contract Agreement or (2) sale of the Pledged Trust Preferred
      Securities or the Pledged Treasury Securities in one or more public or
      private sales.

            (b) Without limiting any rights or powers otherwise granted by this
      Agreement to the Collateral Agent, in the event the Company is unable to
      make payments from amounts transferred or transferable to the Company on
      account of the principal payments of any Pledged Treasury Securities as
      provided in Article III hereof, in satisfaction of the Obligations of the
      Holder of the Common Equity Units of which such applicable Pledged
      Treasury Securities are a part under the related Stock Purchase Contracts,
      the inability to make such payments shall constitute an event of default
      hereunder and the Collateral Agent shall have and may exercise, with
      reference to such Pledged Treasury Securities any and all of the rights
      and remedies available to a secured

                                       21

party under the UCC and the Trades Regulations after default by a debtor,
      and as otherwise granted herein or under any other law.

            (c) Without limiting any rights or powers otherwise granted by this
      Agreement to the Collateral Agent, the Collateral Agent is hereby
      irrevocably authorized to receive and collect all payments of (i) the
      liquidation amount of the Pledged Trust Preferred Securities and (ii) the
      principal amount of the Pledged Treasury Securities, subject, in each
      case, to the provisions of Article III hereof, and as otherwise granted
      herein.

            (d) The Stock Purchase Contract Agent, as attorney-in-fact of the
      Holders, and each Holder of Common Equity Units agrees that, from time to
      time, upon the written request of the Collateral Agent or the Stock
      Purchase Contract Agent, such Holder shall execute and deliver such
      further documents and do such other acts and things as the Company may
      reasonably request in order to maintain the Pledge, and the perfection and
      priority thereof, and to confirm the rights of the Collateral Agent
      hereunder. The Stock Purchase Contract Agent shall have no liability to
      any Holder for executing any documents or taking any such acts requested
      by the Collateral Agent hereunder, except for liability for its own
      negligent acts, its own negligent failure to act or its own willful
      misconduct.

            SECTION 7.02. Remarketing.

            The Collateral Agent shall, by 11:00 a.m., New York City time, on
the Business Day immediately preceding an applicable Remarketing Date, notify
the Remarketing Agent of the aggregate liquidation amount of the applicable
series of Pledged Trust Preferred Securities that are to be remarketed and
without any instruction from any Holder of Normal Common Equity Units, present
the related Pledged Trust Preferred Securities of the applicable series to the
Remarketing Agent for Remarketing. In the event of a Failed Remarketing, the
Trust Preferred Securities presented to the Remarketing Agent pursuant to this
Section 7.02 for Remarketing shall be redeposited into the applicable Collateral
Account.

            SECTION 7.03. Successful Remarketing.

            In the event of a Successful Remarketing, the Collateral Agent
shall, at the written direction of the Company, instruct the Securities
Intermediary to (i) Transfer the applicable Pledged Trust Preferred Securities
to the Remarketing Agent upon confirmation of deposit by the Remarketing Agent
of the Proceeds of such Successful Remarketing (after deducting any Remarketing
Fee in accordance with the Remarketing Agreement) in the applicable Collateral
Account, (ii) apply an amount equal to the aggregate Purchase Price for the
shares of Common Stock to be issued under the related Stock Purchase Contracts
on the applicable Stock Purchase Date in full satisfaction of such Holders'
obligations to pay the Purchase Price under the related Stock Purchase
Contracts, and (iii) promptly remit the remaining portion of such Proceeds to
the Stock Purchase Contract Agent for payment to the Holders of Normal Common
Equity Units, in accordance with their respective interests and the Stock
Purchase Contract Agreement. With respect to Separate Trust Preferred
Securities, any Proceeds of such Remarketing (after deducting any Remarketing
Fee in accordance with the Remarketing Agreement) attributable to

                                       22

the Separate Trust Preferred Securities will be remitted to the Custodial Agent
for payment to the holders of Separate Trust Preferred Securities. In the event
of a Final Failed Remarketing, the Pledged Trust Preferred Securities shall
remain credited to the Collateral Account and Section 5.07 shall apply.

            SECTION 7.04. Substitutions.

            Whenever a Holder has the right to substitute Treasury Securities,
Trust Preferred Securities or security entitlements for any of them, as the case
may be, for financial assets held in a Collateral Account, such substitution
shall not constitute a novation of the security interest created hereby.

                                  ARTICLE VIII

                    REPRESENTATIONS AND WARRANTIES; COVENANTS

            SECTION 8.01. Representations and Warranties.

            Each Holder from time to time, acting through the Stock Purchase
Contract Agent as attorney-in-fact (it being understood that the Stock Purchase
Contract Agent shall not be liable for any representation or warranty made by or
on behalf of a Holder), hereby represents and warrants to the Collateral Agent
(with respect to such Holder's interest in the Collateral), which
representations and warranties shall be deemed repeated on each day a Holder
Transfers Collateral, that:

            (a) such Holder has the power to grant a security interest in and
      lien on the Collateral;

            (b) such Holder is the sole beneficial owner of the Collateral and,
      in the case of Collateral delivered in physical form, is the sole holder
      of such Collateral and is the sole beneficial owner of, or has the right
      to Transfer, the Collateral it Transfers to the Collateral Agent for
      credit to an applicable Collateral Account, free and clear of any security
      interest, lien, encumbrance, call, liability to pay money or other
      restriction other than the security interest and lien granted under
      Article II hereof;

            (c) upon the Transfer of the Collateral to the Collateral Agent for
      credit to an applicable Collateral Account, the Collateral Agent, for the
      benefit of the Company, will have a valid and perfected first priority
      security interest therein (assuming that any central clearing operation or
      any securities intermediary or other entity not within the control of the
      Holder involved in the Transfer of the Collateral, including the
      Collateral Agent and the Securities Intermediary, gives the notices and
      takes the action required of it hereunder and under applicable law for
      perfection of that interest and assuming the establishment and exercise of
      control pursuant to Article IV hereof); and (d) the execution and
      performance by the Holder of its obligations under this Agreement will not
      result in the creation of any security interest, lien or other encumbrance
      on the Collateral other than the security interest and lien granted under
      Article II hereof or violate any provision of any existing law or
      regulation applicable to it or of any mortgage, charge,

                                       23

pledge, indenture, contract or undertaking to which it is a party or which
      is binding on it or any of its assets.

            SECTION 8.02. Covenants.

            The Holders from time to time, acting through the Stock Purchase
Contract Agent as their attorney-in-fact (it being understood that the Stock
Purchase Contract Agent shall not be liable for any covenant made by or on
behalf of a Holder), hereby covenant to the Collateral Agent that for so long as
the Collateral remains subject to the Pledge:

            (a) such Holders will not create or purport to create or allow to
      subsist any mortgage, charge, lien, pledge or any other security interest
      whatsoever over the Collateral or any part of it other than pursuant to
      this Agreement; and

            (b) such Holders will not sell or otherwise dispose (or attempt to
      dispose) of the Collateral or any part of it except for the beneficial
      interest therein, subject to the Pledge hereunder, transferred in
      connection with the Transfer of the Common Equity Units.

                                   ARTICLE IX

                    THE COLLATERAL AGENT, THE CUSTODIAL AGENT
                         AND THE SECURITIES INTERMEDIARY

            It is hereby agreed as follows:

            SECTION 9.01. Appointment, Powers and Immunities.

            The Collateral Agent, the Custodial Agent or the Securities
Intermediary shall act as agent for the Company hereunder with such powers as
are specifically vested in the Collateral Agent, the Custodial Agent or the
Securities Intermediary, as the case may be, by the terms of this Agreement. The
Collateral Agent, the Custodial Agent and Securities Intermediary shall:

            (a) have no duties or responsibilities except those expressly set
      forth in this Agreement and no implied covenants, functions,
      responsibilities, duties, liabilities or obligations shall be inferred
      from this Agreement against the Collateral Agent, the Custodial Agent and
      the Securities Intermediary, nor shall the Collateral Agent, the Custodial
      Agent and the Securities Intermediary be bound by the provisions of any
      agreement by any party hereto beyond the specific terms hereof and none of
      the Collateral Agent, the Custodial Agent or the Securities Intermediary
      shall have any fiduciary relationship to the Holders of the Common Equity
      Units or any other Person;

            (b) not be responsible for any recitals contained in this Agreement,
      or in any certificate or other document referred to or provided for in, or
      received by it under, this Agreement, the Common Equity Units or the Stock
      Purchase Contract Agreement, or for the value, validity, effectiveness,
      genuineness, enforceability or sufficiency of this Agreement (other than
      as against the Collateral Agent, the Custodial Agent or the Securities
      Intermediary, as the case may be), the Common Equity Units, any Collateral
      or

                                       24

the Stock Purchase Contract Agreement or any other document referred to or
      provided for herein or therein or for any failure by the Company or any
      other Person (except the Collateral Agent, the Custodial Agent or the
      Securities Intermediary, as the case may be) to perform any of its
      obligations hereunder or thereunder or for the validity, perfection,
      enforceability, priority or, except as expressly required hereby,
      maintenance of any security interest created hereunder;

            (c) not be required to initiate or conduct any litigation or
      collection proceedings hereunder (except pursuant to directions furnished
      under Section 9.02 hereof, subject to Section 9.08 hereof);

            (d) not be responsible for any action taken or omitted to be taken
      by it hereunder or under any other document or instrument referred to or
      provided for herein or in connection herewith or therewith, except for its
      own negligence or willful misconduct; and

            (e) not be required to advise any party as to selling or retaining,
      or taking or refraining from taking any action with respect to, any
      securities or other property deposited hereunder.

            Subject to the foregoing, during the term of this Agreement, the
Collateral Agent, the Custodial Agent and the Securities Intermediary shall take
all reasonable action in connection with the safekeeping and preservation of the
Collateral hereunder as determined by industry standards.

            The Collateral Agent, Securities Intermediary and Custodial Agent
shall only be responsible for transferring money, securities or other property
in accordance with the terms herein to the extent that such money, securities or
other property is credited to the respective Collateral Account.

            No provision of this Agreement shall require the Collateral Agent,
Custodial Agent or the Securities Intermediary to expend or risk its own funds
or otherwise incur any financial liability in the performance of any of its
duties or the exercise of any of its rights or powers hereunder. In no event
shall the Collateral Agent, Custodial Agent or the Securities Intermediary be
liable for any amount in excess of the Value of the Collateral.

            SECTION 9.02. Instructions of the Company.

            The Company shall have the right, by one or more written instruments
executed and delivered to the Collateral Agent, to direct the time, method and
place of conducting any proceeding for the realization of any right or remedy
available to the Collateral Agent, or of exercising any power conferred on the
Collateral Agent, or to direct the taking or refraining from taking of any
action authorized by this Agreement; provided, however, that (i) such direction
shall not conflict with the provisions of any law or of this Agreement or
involve the Collateral Agent in personal liability and (ii) the Collateral Agent
shall be indemnified to its satisfaction as provided herein. None of the
Collateral Agent, the Custodial Agent or the Securities Intermediary has any
obligation or responsibility to file any UCC financing or continuation

                                       25

statements or to take any other actions to create, preserve or maintain the
security interest in the Collateral except as expressly set forth herein.

            SECTION 9.03. Reliance by Collateral Agent, Custodial Agent and
Securities Intermediary.

            Each of the Collateral Agent, the Custodial Agent and the Securities
Intermediary shall be entitled, in the absence of bad faith, to rely
conclusively upon any certification, order, judgment, opinion, notice or other
written communication (including, without limitation, any thereof by e-mail or
similar electronic means, telecopy, telex or facsimile) believed by it to be
genuine and correct and to have been signed or sent by or on behalf of the
proper Person or Persons (without being required to determine the correctness of
any fact stated therein) and consult with and conclusively rely upon advice,
opinions and statements of legal counsel and other experts selected by the
Collateral Agent, the Custodial Agent or the Securities Intermediary, as the
case may be. As to any matters not expressly provided for by this Agreement, the
Collateral Agent, the Custodial Agent and the Securities Intermediary shall in
all cases be fully protected in acting, or in refraining from acting, hereunder
in accordance with instructions given by the Company in accordance with this
Agreement. In the event any instructions are given (other than in writing at the
time of the execution of this Agreement), whether in writing, by telecopier or
otherwise, the Collateral Agent, the Custodial Agent and the Securities
Intermediary are authorized to seek confirmation of such instructions by
telephone call-back to the person or persons designated on Schedule I hereto,
and the Collateral Agent, the Custodial Agent and the Securities Intermediary
may rely upon the confirmations of anyone purporting to be the person or persons
so designated. The persons and telephone numbers for call-backs may be changed
only in writing actually received and acknowledged by the Collateral Agent, the
Custodial Agent and the Securities Intermediary.

            It is understood that the Collateral Agent, the Custodial Agent and
the Securities Intermediary in any funds transfer may rely solely upon any
account numbers or similar identifying number provided by the Company to
identify (i) the beneficiary, (ii) the beneficiary's bank, or (iii) an
intermediary bank. The Collateral Agent, the Custodial Agent and the Securities
Intermediary may apply any of the deposited funds for any payment order it
executes using any such identifying number, even where its use may result in a
Person other than the beneficiary being paid, or the transfer of funds to a bank
other than the beneficiary's bank, or an intermediary bank, designated by the
Company; provided, however, that payment is made to the account as specified by
the Company.

            In each case that the Collateral Agent, Custodial Agent or
Securities Intermediary may or is required hereunder to take any action,
including without limitation to make any determination or judgment, to give
consents, to exercise rights, powers or remedies, to release or sell Collateral
or otherwise to act hereunder, the Collateral Agent, Custodial Agent or
Securities Intermediary may seek direction from the Company. The Collateral
Agent, Custodial Agent or Securities Intermediary shall not be liable with
respect to any action taken or omitted to be taken by it in good faith in
accordance with the direction from the Company. Unless direction is otherwise
expressly provided herein, if the Collateral Agent, Custodial Agent or
Securities Intermediary shall request direction from the Company with respect to
any action, the Collateral Agent, Custodial Agent or the Securities Intermediary
shall be entitled to refrain from such

                                       26

action unless and until such agent shall have received direction from the
Company, and the agent shall not incur liability to any Person by reason of so
refraining.

            SECTION 9.04. Certain Rights.

            (a) Whenever in the administration of the provisions of this
      Agreement the Collateral Agent, the Custodial Agent or the Securities
      Intermediary shall deem it necessary or desirable that a matter be proved
      or established prior totaling or suffering any action to be taken
      hereunder, such matter (unless other evidence in respect thereof be herein
      specifically prescribed) may, in the absence of negligence or bad faith on
      the part of the Collateral Agent, the Custodial Agent or the Securities
      Intermediary, be deemed to be conclusively proved and established by a
      certificate signed by one of the Company's officers, and delivered to the
      Collateral Agent, the Custodial Agent or the Securities Intermediary and
      such certificate, in the absence of negligence or bad faith on the part of
      the Collateral Agent, the Custodial Agent or the Securities Intermediary,
      shall be full warrant to the Collateral Agent, the Custodial Agent or the
      Securities Intermediary for any action taken, suffered or omitted by it
      under the provisions of this Agreement upon the faith thereof.

            (b) The Collateral Agent, the Custodial Agent or the Securities
      Intermediary shall not be bound to make any investigation into the facts
      or matters stated in any resolution, certificate, statement, instrument,
      opinion, report, notice, request, consent, entitlement order, approval or
      other paper or document.

            SECTION 9.05. Merger, Conversion, Consolidation or Succession to
Business.

            Any Person into which the Collateral Agent, the Custodial Agent or
the Securities Intermediary may be merged or converted or with which it may be
consolidated, or any Person resulting from any merger, conversion or
consolidation to which the Collateral Agent, the Custodial Agent or the
Securities Intermediary shall be a party, or any Person succeeding to all or
substantially all of the corporate trust business of the Collateral Agent, the
Custodial Agent or the Securities Intermediary shall be the successor of the
Collateral Agent, the Custodial Agent or the Securities Intermediary hereunder
without the execution or filing of any paper with any party hereto or any
further act on the part of any of the parties hereto except where an instrument
of transfer or assignment is required by law to effect such succession, anything
herein to the contrary notwithstanding.

            SECTION 9.06. Rights in Other Capacities.

            The Collateral Agent, the Custodial Agent and the Securities
Intermediary and their affiliates may (without having to account therefore to
the Company) accept deposits from, lend money to, make their investments in and
generally engage in any kind of banking, trust or other business with the Stock
Purchase Contract Agent, any other Person interested herein and any Holder of
Common Equity Units (and any of their respective subsidiaries or affiliates) as
if it were not acting as the Collateral Agent, the Custodial Agent or the
Securities Intermediary, as the case may be, and the Collateral Agent, the
Custodial Agent, the Securities Intermediary and

                                       27

their affiliates may accept fees and other consideration from the Stock Purchase
Contract Agent and any Holder of Common Equity Units without having to account
for the same to the Company; provided that each of the Securities Intermediary,
the Custodial Agent and the Collateral Agent covenants and agrees with the
Company that it shall not accept, receive or permit there to be created in favor
of itself and shall take no affirmative action to permit there to be created in
favor of any other Person, any security interest, lien or other encumbrance of
any kind in or upon the Collateral other than the lien created by the Pledge.

            SECTION 9.07. Non-reliance on Collateral Agent, the Custodial Agent
and Securities Intermediary.

            None of the Securities Intermediary, the Custodial Agent or the
Collateral Agent shall be required to keep itself informed as to the performance
or observance by the Stock Purchase Contract Agent or any Holder of Common
Equity Units of this Agreement, the Stock Purchase Contract Agreement, the
Common Equity Units or any other document referred to or provided for herein or
therein or to inspect the properties or books of the Stock Purchase Contract
Agent or any Holder of Common Equity Units. None of the Collateral Agent, the
Custodial Agent or the Securities Intermediary shall have any duty or
responsibility to provide the Company with any credit or other information
concerning the affairs, financial condition or business of the Stock Purchase
Contract Agent or any Holder of Common Equity Units (or any of their respective
affiliates) that may come into the possession of the Collateral Agent, the
Custodial Agent or the Securities Intermediary or any of their respective
affiliates.

            SECTION 9.08. Compensation and Indemnity.

            The Company agrees to:

            (a) pay the Collateral Agent, the Custodial Agent and the Securities
      Intermediary from time to time such compensation as shall be agreed in
      writing between the Company and the Collateral Agent, the Custodial Agent
      or the Securities Intermediary, as the case may be, for all services
      rendered by them hereunder;

            (b) indemnify and hold harmless the Collateral Agent, the Custodial
      Agent, the Securities Intermediary and each of their respective directors,
      officers, agents and employees (collectively, the "Indemnitees"), from and
      against any and all claims, liabilities, losses, damages, fines, penalties
      and expenses (including reasonable fees and expenses of counsel) and taxes
      (other than those based upon, determined by or measured by the income of
      the Collateral Agent, the Custodial Agent and Securities Intermediary)
      (collectively, "Losses" and individually, a "Loss") that may be imposed
      on, incurred by, or asserted against, the Indemnitees or any of them for
      following any instructions or other directions upon which either the
      Collateral Agent, the Custodial Agent or the Securities Intermediary is
      entitled to rely pursuant to the terms of this Agreement, provided that
      the Collateral Agent, the Custodial Agent or the Securities Intermediary
      has not acted with negligence or engaged in willful misconduct with
      respect to the specific Loss against which indemnification is sought; and

                                       28

(c) in addition to and not in limitation of paragraph (b)immediately
      above, indemnify and hold the Indemnitees and each of them harmless from
      and against any and all Losses that may be imposed on, incurred by or
      asserted against, the Indemnitees or any of them in connection with or
      arising out of the Collateral Agent's, the Custodial Agent's or the
      Securities Intermediary's acceptance or performance of its powers and
      duties under this Agreement, provided that the Collateral Agent, the
      Custodial Agent or the Securities Intermediary has not acted with
      negligence or engaged in willful misconduct with respect to the specific
      Loss against which indemnification is sought.

            The provisions of this Section and Section 11.07 shall survive the
resignation or removal of the Collateral Agent, Custodial Agent or Securities
Intermediary and the termination of this Agreement.

            SECTION 9.09. Failure to Act.

            In the event of any ambiguity in the provisions of this Agreement or
any dispute between or conflicting claims by or among the parties hereto or any
other Person with respect to any funds or property deposited hereunder, then at
its sole option, each of the Collateral Agent, the Custodial Agent and the
Securities Intermediary shall be entitled, after prompt notice to the Company
and the Stock Purchase Contract Agent, to refuse to comply with any and all
claims, demands or instructions with respect to such property or funds so long
as such dispute or conflict shall continue, and the Collateral Agent, the
Custodial Agent and the Securities Intermediary shall not be or become liable in
any way to any of the parties hereto for its failure or refusal to comply with
such conflicting claims, demands or instructions. The Collateral Agent, the
Custodial Agent and the Securities Intermediary shall be entitled to refuse to
act until either:

            (a) such conflicting or adverse claims or demands shall have been
      finally determined by a court of competent jurisdiction or settled by
      agreement between the conflicting parties as evidenced in a writing
      satisfactory to the Collateral Agent, the Custodial Agent or the
      Securities Intermediary; or

            (b) the Collateral Agent, the Custodial Agent or the Securities
      Intermediary shall have received security or an indemnity satisfactory to
      it sufficient to save it harmless from and against any and all loss,
      liability or reasonable out-of-pocket expense which it may incur by reason
      of its acting.

            Notwithstanding anything contained herein to the contrary, none of
the Collateral Agent, the Custodial Agent or the Securities Intermediary shall
be required to take any action that is contrary to law or to the terms of this
Agreement, or which would in its opinion subject it or any of its officers,
employees or directors to liability.

            SECTION 9.10. Resignation of Collateral Agent, the Custodial Agent
and Securities Intermediary.

            Subject to the appointment and acceptance of a successor Collateral
Agent, Custodial Agent or Securities Intermediary as provided below:

                                       29

(A) the Collateral Agent, the Custodial Agent and the Securities
      Intermediary may resign at any time by giving notice thereof to the
      Company and the Stock Purchase Contract Agent as attorney-in-fact for the
      Holders of Common Equity Units;

            (B) the Collateral Agent, the Custodial Agent and the Securities
      Intermediary may be removed at any time by the Company; and

            (C) if the Collateral Agent, the Custodial Agent or the Securities
      Intermediary fails to perform any of its material obligations hereunder in
      any material respect for a period of not less than 20 days after receiving
      written notice of such failure by the Stock Purchase Contract Agent, and
      such failure shall be continuing, the Collateral Agent, the Custodial
      Agent and the Securities Intermediary may be removed by the Stock Purchase
      Contract Agent, acting at the direction of the Holders of a majority in
      number of the Common Equity Units.

            The Stock Purchase Contract Agent shall promptly notify the Company
of any removal of the Collateral Agent, the Custodial Agent or the Securities
Intermediary pursuant to clause (iii) of this Section 9.10. Upon any such
resignation or removal, the Company shall have the right to appoint a successor
Collateral Agent, Custodial Agent or Securities Intermediary, as the case may
be. If no successor Collateral Agent, Custodial Agent or Securities Intermediary
shall have been so appointed and shall have accepted such appointment within 30
days after the retiring Collateral Agent's, Custodial Agent's or Securities
Intermediary's giving of notice of resignation or the Company's or the Stock
Purchase Contract Agent's giving notice of such removal, then the retiring or
removed Collateral Agent, Custodial Agent or Securities Intermediary may
petition any court of competent jurisdiction, at the expense of the Company, for
the appointment of a successor Collateral Agent, Custodial Agent or Securities
Intermediary. The Collateral Agent, the Custodial Agent and the Securities
Intermediary shall each be a bank, trust company or national banking association
with a combined capital and surplus of at least $50,000,000. Upon the acceptance
of any appointment as Collateral Agent, Custodial Agent or Securities
Intermediary hereunder by a successor Collateral Agent, Custodial Agent or
Securities Intermediary, as the case may be, such successor Collateral Agent,
Custodial Agent or Securities Intermediary, as the case may be, shall thereupon
succeed to and become vested with all the rights, powers, privileges and duties
of the retiring Collateral Agent, Custodial Agent or Securities Intermediary, as
the case may be, and the retiring Collateral Agent, Custodial Agent or
Securities Intermediary, as the case may be, shall take all appropriate action,
subject to payment of any amounts then due and payable to it hereunder, to
transfer any money and property held by it hereunder (including the Collateral)
to such successor. The retiring Collateral Agent, Custodial Agent or Securities
Intermediary shall, upon such succession, be discharged from its duties and
obligations as Collateral Agent, Custodial Agent or Securities Intermediary
hereunder. After any retiring Collateral Agent's, Custodial Agent's or
Securities Intermediary's resignation hereunder as Collateral Agent, Custodial
Agent or Securities Intermediary, the provisions of this Article IX shall
continue in effect for its benefit in respect of any actions taken or omitted to
be taken by it while it was acting as the Collateral Agent, Custodial Agent or
Securities Intermediary. Any resignation or removal of the Collateral Agent,
Custodial Agent or Securities Intermediary hereunder, at a time when such Person
is acting as the Collateral Agent, Custodial Agent or Securities Intermediary,
shall be deemed for all purposes of this Agreement as the

                                       30

simultaneous resignation or removal of the Collateral Agent, Securities
Intermediary or Custodial Agent, as the case may be.

            SECTION 9.11. Right to Appoint Agent or Advisor.

            The Collateral Agent, Custodial Agent and Securities Intermediary
each shall have the right to appoint agents or advisors in connection with any
of their respective duties hereunder, and the Collateral Agent, Custodial Agent
and Securities Intermediary shall not be liable for any action taken or omitted
by, or in reliance upon the advice of, such agents or advisors selected in good
faith. The appointment of agents pursuant to Section 9.11 shall be subject to
prior written consent of the Company, which consent shall not be unreasonably
withheld.

            SECTION 9.12. Survival.

            The provisions of this Article IX shall survive termination of this
Agreement and the resignation or removal of the Collateral Agent, the Custodial
Agent or the Securities Intermediary.

            SECTION 9.13. Exculpation.

            Anything contained in this Agreement to the contrary
notwithstanding, in no event shall the Collateral Agent, the Custodial Agent or
the Securities Intermediary or their officers, directors, employees or agents be
liable under this Agreement to any third party for indirect, special, punitive,
or consequential loss or damage of any kind whatsoever, including, but not
limited to, lost profits, whether or not the likelihood of such loss or damage
was known to the Collateral Agent, the Custodial Agent or the Securities
Intermediary, or any of them incurred without any act or deed that is found to
be attributable to negligence or willful misconduct on the part of the
Collateral Agent, the Custodial Agent or the Securities Intermediary.

                                   ARTICLE X

                                    AMENDMENT

            SECTION 10.01. Amendment Without Consent of Holders.

            Without the consent of any Holders, the Company, when duly
authorized by a Board Resolution, the Collateral Agent, the Custodial Agent, the
Securities Intermediary and the Stock Purchase Contract Agent, at any time and
from time to time, may amend this Agreement, in form satisfactory to the
Company, the Collateral Agent, the Custodial Agent, the Securities Intermediary
and the Stock Purchase Contract Agent, to:

            (a) evidence the succession of another Person to the Company and the
      assumption by any such successor of the covenants of the Company;

                                       31

(b) evidence and provide for the acceptance of appointment hereunder
      by a successor Collateral Agent, Custodial Agent, Securities Intermediary
      or Stock Purchase Contract Agent;

            (c) add to the covenants of the Company for the benefit of the
      Holders, or surrender any right or power herein conferred upon the
      Company, provided that such covenants or such surrender do not adversely
      affect the validity, perfection or priority of the Pledge created
      hereunder;

            (d) cure any ambiguity (or formal defect) or correct or supplement
      any provisions herein which may be inconsistent with another such
      provisions herein; or

            (e) make any other provisions with respect to such matters or
      questions arising under this Agreement, provided that such action shall
      not adversely affect the interests of the Holders in any material respect.

            SECTION 10.02. Amendment with Consent of Holders.

            With the consent of the Holders of not less than a majority in
number of the Common Equity Units at the time Outstanding, including without
limitation the consent of the Holders obtained in connection with a tender or an
exchange offer, by Act of such Holders delivered to the Company, the Stock
Purchase Contract Agent, the Custodial Agent, the Securities Intermediary and
the Collateral Agent, as the case may be, the Company, when duly authorized by a
Board Resolution, the Stock Purchase Contract Agent, the Collateral Agent, the
Securities Intermediary and the Collateral Agent may amend this Agreement for
the purpose of modifying in any manner the provisions of this Agreement or the
rights of the Holders in respect of the Common Equity Units; provided, however,
that no such supplemental agreement shall, without the unanimous consent of the
Holders of each Outstanding Common Equity Unit:

            (a) change the amount or type of Collateral underlying a Common
      Equity Unit (except for the rights of Holders of Normal Common Equity
      Units to substitute the Treasury Securities for the Pledged Trust
      Preferred Securities or the rights of Holders of Stripped Common Equity
      Units to substitute Trust Preferred Securities, as applicable, for the
      Pledged Treasury Securities), impair the right of the Holder of any Common
      Equity Unit to receive distributions on the underlying Collateral or
      otherwise adversely affect the Holder's rights in or to such Collateral;
      or

            (b) otherwise effect any action that would require the consent of
      the Holder of each Outstanding Common Equity Unit affected thereby
      pursuant to the Stock Purchase Contract Agreement if such action were
      effected by a modification or amendment of the provisions of the Stock
      Purchase Contract Agreement; or

            (c) reduce the percentage of Common Equity Units the consent of
      whose Holders is required for the modification or amendment of the
      provisions of this Agreement;

provided that if any amendment or proposal referred to above would adversely
affect only the Normal Common Equity Units or only the Stripped Common Equity
Units, then only the

                                       32

affected class of Holders as of the record date for the Holders entitled to vote
thereon will be entitled to vote on such amendment or proposal, and such
amendment or proposal shall not be effective except with the consent of Holders
of not less than a majority of such class; provided further that the unanimous
consent of the Holders of each Outstanding Common Equity Unit of such class
affected thereby shall be required to approve any amendment or proposal
specified in clauses (a) through (c) above.

            It shall not be necessary for any Act of Holders under this Section
to approve the particular form of any proposed amendment, but it shall be
sufficient if such Act shall approve the substance thereof.

            SECTION 10.03. Execution of Amendments.

            In executing any amendment permitted by this Article, the Collateral
Agent, the Custodial Agent, the Securities Intermediary and the Stock Purchase
Contract Agent shall be entitled to receive and (subject to Section 7.01 of the
Stock Purchase Contract Agreement with respect to the Stock Purchase Contract
Agent) shall be fully authorized and protected in relying upon, an Opinion of
Counsel and an officers' certificate stating that the execution of such
amendment is authorized or permitted by this Agreement and that all conditions
precedent, if any, to the execution and delivery of such amendment have been
satisfied. The Collateral Agent, Custodial Agent, Securities Intermediary and
Stock Purchase Contract Agent may, but shall not be obligated to, enter into any
such amendment which affects their own respective rights, duties or immunities
under this Agreement or otherwise.

            SECTION 10.04. Effect of Amendments.

            Upon the execution of any amendment under this Article, this
Agreement shall be modified in accordance therewith, and such amendment shall
form a part of this Agreement for all purposes; and every Holder of Certificates
theretofore or thereafter authenticated, executed on behalf of the Holders and
delivered under the Stock Purchase Contract Agreement shall be bound thereby.

            SECTION 10.05. Reference of Amendments.

            Certificates authenticated, executed on behalf of the Holders and
delivered after the execution of any amendment pursuant to this Section may, and
shall if required by the Collateral Agent or the Stock Purchase Contract Agent,
bear a notation as to any matter provided for in such amendment. If the Company
shall so determine, new Certificates so modified as to conform, to any such
amendment may be prepared and executed by the Company and authenticated,
executed on behalf of the Holders and delivered by the Stock Purchase Contract
Agent in accordance with the Stock Purchase Contract Agreement in exchange for
Certificates representing Outstanding Common Equity Units.

                                   ARTICLE XI

                                  MISCELLANEOUS

            SECTION 11.01. No Waiver.

                                       33

No failure on the part of the Company, the Collateral Agent, the
Custodial Agent, the Securities Intermediary or any of their respective agents
to exercise, and no course of dealing with respect to, and no delay in
exercising, any right, power or remedy hereunder shall operate as a waiver
thereof; nor shall any single or partial exercise by the Company, the Collateral
Agent, the Custodial Agent, the Securities Intermediary or any of their
respective agents of any right, power or remedy hereunder preclude any other or
further exercise thereof or the exercise of any other right, power or remedy.
The remedies herein are cumulative and are not exclusive of any remedies
provided by law.

            SECTION 11.02. Governing Law; Submission to Jurisdiction.

            THIS AGREEMENT SHALL BE GOVERNED BY, AND CONSTRUED IN ACCORDANCE
WITH, THE LAWS OF THE STATE OF NEW YORK. The Company, the Collateral Agent, the
Custodial Agent, the Securities Intermediary and the Holders from time to time
of the Common Equity Units, acting through the Stock Purchase Contract Agent as
their attorney-in-fact, hereby submit to the nonexclusive jurisdiction of the
United States District Court for the Southern District of New York and of any
New York state court sitting in New York City for the purposes of all legal
proceedings arising out of or relating to this Agreement or the transactions
contemplated hereby. The Company, the Collateral Agent, the Custodial Agent, the
Securities Intermediary and the Holders from time to time of the Common Equity
Units, acting through the Stock Purchase Contract Agent as their
attorney-in-fact, irrevocably waive, to the fullest extent permitted by
applicable law, any objection that they may now or hereafter have to the laying
of the venue of any such proceeding brought in such a court and any claim that
any such proceeding brought in such a court has been brought in an inconvenient
forum.

            SECTION 11.03. Notices.

            All notices, requests, consents and other communications provided
for herein (including, without limitation, any modifications of, or waivers or
consents under, this Agreement) shall be given or made in writing (including,
without limitation, by telecopy) delivered to the intended recipient at the
"Address For Notices" specified below its name on the signature pages hereof or,
as to any party, at such other address as shall be designated by such party in a
notice to the other parties. Except as otherwise provided in this Agreement, all
such communications shall be deemed to have been duly given when transmitted by
telecopy or personally delivered or, in the case of a mailed notice, upon
receipt, in each case given or addressed as aforesaid.

            SECTION 11.04. Successors and Assigns.

            This Agreement shall be binding upon and inure to the benefit of the
respective successors and assigns of the Company, the Collateral Agent, the
Custodial Agent, the Securities Intermediary and the Stock Purchase Contract
Agent, and the Holders from time to time of the Common Equity Units, by their
acceptance of the same, shall be deemed to have agreed to be bound by the
provisions hereof and to have ratified the agreements of, and the grant of the
Pledge hereunder by, the Stock Purchase Contract Agent.

            SECTION 11.05. Counterparts.

                                       34

This Agreement may be executed in any number of counterparts, all of
which taken together shall constitute one and the same instrument, and any of
the parties hereto may execute this Agreement by signing any such counterpart.

            SECTION 11.06. Severability.

            If any provision hereof is invalid and unenforceable in any
jurisdiction, then, to the fullest extent permitted by law, (i) the other
provisions hereof shall remain in full force and effect in such jurisdiction and
shall be liberally construed in order to carry out the intentions of the parties
hereto as nearly as may be possible and (ii) the invalidity or unenforceability
of any provision hereof in any jurisdiction shall not affect the validity or
enforceability of such provision in any other jurisdiction.

            SECTION 11.07. Expenses, Etc.

            The Company agrees to reimburse the Collateral Agent, the Custodial
Agent and the Securities Intermediary for:

            (a) all reasonable costs and expenses of the Collateral Agent, the
      Custodial Agent and the Securities Intermediary (including, without
      limitation, the reasonable fees and expenses of counsel to the Collateral
      Agent, the Custodial Agent and the Securities Intermediary), in connection
      with (i) the negotiation, preparation, execution and delivery or
      performance of this Agreement and (ii) any modification, supplement or
      waiver of any of the terms of this Agreement;

            (b) all reasonable costs and expenses of the Collateral Agent, the
      Custodial Agent and the Securities Intermediary (including, without
      limitation, reasonable fees and expenses of counsel) in connection with
      (i) any enforcement or proceedings resulting or incurred in connection
      with causing any Holder of Common Equity Units to satisfy its obligations
      under the Stock Purchase Contracts forming a part of the Common Equity
      Units and (ii) the enforcement of this Section 11.07;

            (c) all transfer, stamp, documentary or other similar taxes,
      assessments or charges levied by any governmental or revenue authority in
      respect of this Agreement or any other document referred to herein and all
      costs, expenses, taxes, assessments and other charges incurred in
      connection with any filing, registration, recording or perfection of any
      security interest contemplated hereby;

            (d) all reasonable fees and expenses of any agent or advisor
      appointed by the Collateral Agent and consented to by the Company under
      Section 9.11 of this Agreement; and

            (e) any other out-of-pocket costs and expenses reasonably incurred
      by the Collateral Agent, the Custodial Agent and the Securities
      Intermediary in connection with the performance of their duties and the
      exercise of their powers hereunder.

            SECTION 11.08. Security Interest Absolute.

                                       35

All rights of the Collateral Agent and security interests hereunder,
and all obligations of the Holders from time to time hereunder, shall be
absolute and unconditional irrespective of:

            (a) any lack of validity or enforceability of any provision of the
      Stock Purchase Contracts or the Common Equity Units or any other agreement
      or instrument relating thereto;

            (b) any change in the time, manner or place of payment of, or any
      other term of, or any increase in the amount of, all or any of the
      obligations of Holders of the Common Equity Units under the related Stock
      Purchase Contracts, or any other amendment or waiver of any term of, or
      any consent to any departure from any requirement of, the Stock Purchase
      Contract Agreement or any Stock Purchase Contract or any other agreement
      or instrument relating thereto; or

            (c) any other circumstance which might otherwise constitute a
      defense available to, or discharge of, a borrower, a guarantor or a
      pledgor.

            SECTION 11.09. Notice of Termination Event.

            Upon the occurrence of a Termination Event, the Company shall
deliver written notice to the Stock Purchase Contract Agent, the Collateral
Agent, the Custodial Agent and the Securities Intermediary. Upon the written
request of the Collateral Agent or the Securities Intermediary, the Company
shall inform such party whether or not a Termination Event has occurred.

            SECTION 11.10. Incorporation by Reference.

            In connection with its execution and performance hereunder the Stock
Purchase Contract Agent is entitled to all rights, privileges, protections,
immunities, benefits and indemnities provided to it under the Stock Purchase
Contract Agreement.

                       [SIGNATURES ON THE FOLLOWING PAGE]

                                       36

IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto have caused this Agreement to
be duly executed as of the day and year first above written.

METLIFE, INC.                       J.P. MORGAN TRUST COMPANY,
                                    NATIONAL ASSOCIATION, as Stock
                                    Purchase Contract Agent and as attorney-in-
                                    fact of the Holders from time to time of the
                                    Common Equity Units

By: /s/ Joseph Prochaska, Jr.       By: /s/ Paul J. Schmalzel
    -----------------------------       ----------------------------------------
    Name:                               Name:  Paul J. Schmalzel
    Title:                              Title: Authorized Signer

Address for Notices:                Address for Notices:

MetLife, Inc.                       Worldwide Securities Services
27-01 Queens Plaza North            4 New York Plaza
Long Island City, New York 11101    15th Floor
Facsimile: (212) 578-0266           New York, New York 10004
Attention: Treasurer                Facsimile: (212) 623-6215
                                    Telephone: (212) 623-5233
                                    Attention: Worldwide Securities Services

JPMORGAN CHASE BANK, NATIONAL
ASSOCIATION, as Collateral Agent,
Custodial Agent and Securities
Intermediary

By: /s/ L. O'Brien
    -----------------------------
    Name:  L. O'Brien
    Title: Vice President

Address for Notices

Worldwide Securities Services
4 New York Plaza
15th Floor
New York, New York 10004
Facsimile: (212) 623-6215
Telephone: (212) 623-5233
Attention: Worldwide Securities Services

                                       37

EXHIBIT A

                                   INSTRUCTION
                       FROM STOCK PURCHASE CONTRACT AGENT
                               TO COLLATERAL AGENT
                   (Creation of Stripped Common Equity Units)

JPMorgan Chase Bank, National Association, as Collateral Agent
Facsimile: (212) 623-5216
Attention: Worldwide Securities Services

Re:         ____________Normal Common Equity Units of MetLife, Inc. (the
            "COMPANY")

            The securities accounts of JPMorgan Chase Bank, National
            Association, as Collateral Agent, maintained by the Securities
            Intermediary and designated "JPMorgan Chase Bank, National
            Association, as Collateral Agent of MetLife, Inc., as pledgee of
            J.P. Morgan Trust Company, National Association, as the Stock
            Purchase Contract Agent on behalf of and as attorney-in-fact for the
            Holders, Series A" (the "SERIES A COLLATERAL ACCOUNT") and "JPMorgan
            Chase Bank, National Association, as Collateral Agent of MetLife,
            Inc., as pledgee of J.P. Morgan Trust Company, National Association,
            as the Stock Purchase Contract Agent on behalf of and as
            attorney-in-fact for the Holders, Series B" (the "SERIES B
            COLLATERAL ACCOUNT")

            Please refer to the Pledge Agreement, dated as of June 21, 2005 (the
"PLEDGE AGREEMENT"), among the Company, you, as Collateral Agent, as Securities
Intermediary and as Custodial Agent and the undersigned, as Stock Purchase
Contract Agent and as attorney-in-fact for the holders of Normal Common Equity
Units from time to time. Capitalized terms used herein but not defined shall
have the meaning set forth in the Pledge Agreement.

            We hereby notify you in accordance with Section 5.02 of the Pledge
Agreement that:

            [Include only if Notice is Delivered Prior to the Initial Stock
Purchase Date the holder of securities named below (the "HOLDER") has elected to
substitute $ ___________ Value of Series A Treasury Securities or security
entitlements with respect thereto in exchange for an equal Value of Pledged
Series A Trust Preferred Securities relating to Normal Common Equity Units and
has delivered to the undersigned a notice stating that the Holder has
Transferred such Treasury Securities or security entitlements with respect
thereto to the Securities Intermediary, for credit to the Series A Collateral
Account.]

            the Holder has elected to substitute $ Value of Series B Treasury
Securities or security entitlements with respect thereto in exchange for an
equal Value of Pledged Series B Trust Preferred Securities relating to Normal
Common Equity Units and has delivered to the undersigned a notice stating that
the Holder has Transferred such Treasury Securities or security

                                      A-1

entitlements with respect thereto to the Securities Intermediary, for credit to
the Series B Collateral Account.

            We hereby request that you instruct the Securities Intermediary:

            (A) [Include only if Notice is Delivered Prior to the Initial Stock
      Purchase Date Upon confirmation that such Series A Treasury Securities or
      security entitlements thereto have been credited to the Series A
      Collateral Account, to release to the undersigned, on behalf of the Holder
      for distribution to such Holder, an equal Value of Series A Pledged Trust
      Preferred Securities in accordance with Section 5.02 of the Pledge
      Agreement.]

            Upon confirmation that such Series B Treasury Securities or security
entitlements thereto have been credited to the Series B Collateral Account, to
release to the undersigned, on behalf of the Holder for distribution to such
Holder, an equal Value of Series B Pledged Trust Preferred Securities in
accordance with Section 5.02 of the Pledge Agreement.

Date:________________________

                                    J.P. Morgan Trust Company, National
                                      Association, as Stock Purchase Contract
                                      Agent and as attorney-in-fact of the
                                      Holders from time to time of the Common
                                      Equity Units

                                    By:_________________________________________
                                        Name:
                                        Title:

                                      A-2

Please print name and address of Holder electing to substitute Treasury
Securities or security entitlements with respect thereto for the Pledged Trust
Preferred Securities:

___________________________________  ___________________________________________
              Name                       Social Security or other Taxpayer
                                           Identification Number, if any

___________________________________
            Address

___________________________________
___________________________________

                                      A-3

EXHIBIT B

                                   INSTRUCTION
                              FROM COLLATERAL AGENT
                           TO SECURITIES INTERMEDIARY
                   (Creation of Stripped Common Equity Units)

JPMorgan Chase Bank, National Association
as Securities Intermediary
Facsimile: (212) 623-5216
Attention: Worldwide Securities Services

Re:         ____________ Normal Common Equity Units of MetLife, Inc. (the
            "COMPANY")

            The securities accounts of JPMorgan Chase Bank, National
            Association, as Collateral Agent, maintained by the Securities
            Intermediary and designated "JPMorgan Chase Bank, National
            Association, as Collateral Agent of MetLife, Inc., as pledgee of
            J.P. Morgan Trust Company, National Association, as the Stock
            Purchase Contract Agent on behalf of and as attorney-in-fact for the
            Holders, Series A" (the "SERIES A COLLATERAL ACCOUNT") and "JPMorgan
            Chase Bank, National Association, as Collateral Agent of MetLife,
            Inc., as pledgee of J.P. Morgan Trust Company, National Association,
            as the Stock Purchase Contract Agent on behalf of and as
            attorney-in-fact for the Holders, Series B" (the "SERIES B
            COLLATERAL ACCOUNT")

            Please refer to the Pledge Agreement, dated as of June 21, 2005 (the
"PLEDGE AGREEMENT"), among the Company, you, as Collateral Agent, as Securities
Intermediary and as Custodial Agent and J.P. Morgan Trust Company, National
Association, as Stock Purchase Contract Agent and as attorney-in-fact for the
holders of Normal Common Equity Units from time to time. Capitalized terms used
herein but not defined shall have the meanings set forth in the Pledge
Agreement.

            [If Notice is Delivered Prior to the Initial Stock Purchase Date
When you have confirmed that (i) $      Value of Series A Treasury Securities or
security entitlements thereto has been credited to the Series A Collateral
Account by or for the benefit of             , as Holder of Normal Common Equity
Units (the "HOLDER") and (ii) $           Value of Series B Treasury Securities
or security entitlements thereto has been credited to the Series B Collateral
Account by or for the benefit of the Holder, you are hereby instructed to
release from the Series A Collateral Account an equal Value of Pledged Series A
Trust Preferred Securities or security entitlements with respect thereto and to
release from the Series B Collateral Account an equal Value of Pledged Series B
Trust Preferred Securities or security entitlements with respect thereto,
relating to Normal Common Equity Units of the Holder by Transfer to the Stock
Purchase Contract Agent on behalf of the Holder for distribution to such
Holder.]

                                      B-1

[If Notice is Delivered After the Initial Stock Purchase Date: When
you have confirmed that $      Value of Series B Treasury Securities or security
entitlements thereto has been credited to the Series B Collateral Account by or
for the benefit of , as Holder of Normal Common Equity Units (the "HOLDER"), you
are hereby instructed to release to the undersigned, from the Series B
Collateral Account an equal Value of Pledged Series B Trust Preferred Securities
or security entitlements with respect thereto, relating to Normal Common Equity
Units of the Holder by Transfer to the Stock Purchase Contract Agent on behalf
of the Holder for distribution to such Holder.]

Dated: ______________________

                                   JPMorgan Chase Bank, National Association, as
                                      Collateral Agent

                                   By:________________________________________
                                      Name:
                                      Title:

                                      B-2

Please print name and address of Holder:

___________________________________  ___________________________________________
              Name                       Social Security or other Taxpayer
                                           Identification Number, if any

___________________________________
            Address

___________________________________
___________________________________

                                      B-3

EXHIBIT C
                                   INSTRUCTION
                       FROM STOCK PURCHASE CONTRACT AGENT
                               TO COLLATERAL AGENT
                   (Recreation of Normal Common Equity Units)

JPMorgan Chase Bank, National Association,
as Securities Intermediary
Facsimile: (212) 623-5216
Attention: Worldwide Securities Services

Re:         _________ Stripped Common Equity Units of MetLife, Inc. (the
            "COMPANY")

            The securities accounts of JPMorgan Chase Bank, National
            Association, as Collateral Agent, maintained by the Securities
            Intermediary and designated "JPMorgan Chase Bank, National
            Association, as Collateral Agent of MetLife, Inc., as pledgee of
            J.P. Morgan Trust Company, National Association, as the Stock
            Purchase Contract Agent on behalf of and as attorney-in-fact for the
            Holders, Series A" (the "SERIES A COLLATERAL ACCOUNT") and "JPMorgan
            Chase Bank, National Association, as Collateral Agent of MetLife,
            Inc., as pledgee of J.P. Morgan Trust Company, National Association,
            as the Stock Purchase Contract Agent on behalf of and as
            attorney-in-fact for the Holders, Series B" (the "SERIES B
            COLLATERAL ACCOUNT")

            Please refer to the Pledge Agreement dated as of June 21, 2005 (the
"PLEDGE AGREEMENT"), among the Company, you, as Collateral Agent, as Securities
Intermediary, as Custodial Agent and the undersigned, as Stock Purchase Contract
Agent and as attorney-in-fact for the holders of Stripped Common Equity Units
from time to time. Capitalized terms used herein but not defined shall have the
meaning set forth in the Pledge Agreement.

            [If Notice is Delivered Prior to the Initial Stock Purchase Date: We
hereby notify you in accordance with Section 5.03 of the Pledge Agreement that
the holder of securities named below (the "HOLDER") has elected to substitute
(i) $      Value of Series A Trust Preferred Securities or security entitlements
with respect thereto in exchange for an equal Value of Pledged Series A Treasury
Securities with respect to Stripped Common Equity Units and has delivered to the
undersigned a notice stating that the Holder has Transferred such Series A Trust
Preferred Securities or security entitlements with respect thereto to the
Securities Intermediary, for credit to the Series A Collateral Account; and (ii)
$      Value of Series B Trust Preferred Securities or security entitlements
with respect thereto in exchange for an equal Value of Pledged Series B Treasury
Securities with respect to      Stripped Common Equity Units and has delivered
to the undersigned a notice stating that the Holder has Transferred such Series
B Trust Preferred Securities or security entitlements with respect thereto to
the Securities Intermediary, for credit to the Series B Collateral Account;

                                      C-1

[If Notice is Delivered After the Initial Stock Purchase Date: We
hereby notify you in accordance with Section 5.03 of the Pledge Agreement that
the holder of securities named below (the "HOLDER") has elected to substitute
$      Value of Series B Trust Preferred Securities or security entitlements
with respect thereto in exchange for an equal Value of Pledged Series B Treasury
Securities with respect to Stripped Common Equity Units and has delivered to the
undersigned a notice stating that the Holder has Transferred such Series B Trust
Preferred Securities or security entitlements with respect thereto to the
Securities Intermediary, for credit to the Series B Collateral Account.]

            We hereby request that you instruct the Securities Intermediary,
upon confirmation that such Trust Preferred Securities or security entitlements
with respect thereto have been credited to the Collateral Account, to release to
the undersigned, on behalf of such Holder for distribution to such Holder, an
equal Value of Series A Treasury Securities and an equal Value of Series B
Treasury Securities in accordance with Section 5.03 of the Pledge Agreement.

Dated: ______________________

                                   J.P. Morgan Trust Company, National
                                   Association, as Stock Purchase Contract
                                   Agent

                                   By:________________________________________
                                      Name:
                                      Title:

                                      C-2

Please print name and address of Holder electing to substitute Trust Preferred
Securities or security entitlements with respect thereto for Pledged Treasury
Securities:

___________________________________  ___________________________________________
              Name                       Social Security or other Taxpayer
                                           Identification Number, if any

___________________________________
            Address

___________________________________
___________________________________

                                      C-3

EXHIBIT D
                                   INSTRUCTION
                              FROM COLLATERAL AGENT
                           TO SECURITIES INTERMEDIARY
                   (Recreation of Normal Common Equity Units)

JPMorgan Chase Bank, National Association,
as Securities Intermediary
Facsimile: (212) 623-5216
Attention: Worldwide Securities Services

Re:         __________ Stripped Common Equity Units of MetLife, Inc. (the
            "COMPANY")

            The securities accounts of JPMorgan Chase Bank, National
            Association, as Collateral Agent, maintained by the Securities
            Intermediary and designated "JPMorgan Chase Bank, National
            Association, as Collateral Agent of MetLife, Inc., as pledgee of
            J.P. Morgan Trust Company, National Association, as the Stock
            Purchase Contract Agent on behalf of and as attorney-in-fact for the
            Holders, Series A" (the "SERIES A COLLATERAL ACCOUNT") and "JPMorgan
            Chase Bank, National Association, as Collateral Agent of MetLife,
            Inc., as pledgee of J.P. Morgan Trust Company, National Association,
            as the Stock Purchase Contract Agent on behalf of and as
            attorney-in-fact for the Holders, Series B" (the "SERIES B
            COLLATERAL ACCOUNT")

            Please refer to the Pledge Agreement dated as of June 21, 2005 (the
"PLEDGE AGREEMENT"), among the Company, you, as Securities Intermediary,
Custodial Agent and Collateral Agent and J.P. Morgan Trust Company, National
Association, as Stock Purchase Contract Agent and as attorney-in-fact for the
holders of Normal Common Equity Units from time to time. Capitalized terms used
herein but not defined shall have the meanings set forth in the Pledge
Agreement.

            [If Notice is Delivered Prior to the Initial Stock Purchase Date:
When you have confirmed that (i) $              Value of Series A Trust
Preferred Securities or security entitlements with respect thereto has been
credited to the Series A Collateral Account by or for the benefit of
            , as Holder of Stripped Common Equity Units (the "HOLDER") and (ii)
$           Value of Series B Trust Preferred Securities or security
entitlements with respect thereto has been credited to the Series B Collateral
Account by or for the benefit of Holder you are hereby instructed to release
from the Series A Collateral Account and the Series B Collateral Account an
equal Value of Series A Treasury Securities, Series B Treasury Securities or
security entitlements with respect thereto relating to Stripped Common Equity
Units of the Holder by Transfer to the Stock Purchase Contract Agent on behalf
of such Holder for distribution to such Holder.]

            [If Notice is Delivered After the Initial Stock Purchase Date: When
you have confirmed that $        Value of Series B Trust Preferred Securities or
security entitlements

                                      D-1

with respect thereto has been credited to the Series B Collateral Account by or
for the benefit of          , as Holder of Stripped Common Equity Units (the
"HOLDER"), you are hereby instructed to release from the Series B Collateral
Account an equal Value of Series B Treasury Securities or security entitlements
with respect thereto relating to Stripped Common Equity Units of the Holder by
Transfer to the Stock Purchase Contract Agent on behalf of such Holder for
distribution to such Holder.]

Dated:

                                   JPMorgan Chase Bank, National Association, as
                                        Collateral Agent By:

                                   By:________________________________________
                                        Name:
                                        Title:

                                      D-2

Please print name and address of Holder:

___________________________________  ___________________________________________
              Name                       Social Security or other Taxpayer
                                           Identification Number, if any

___________________________________
            Address

___________________________________
___________________________________

                                      D-3

EXHIBIT E

                    NOTICE OF CASH SETTLEMENT FROM COLLATERAL
                     AGENT TO STOCK PURCHASE CONTRACT AGENT
                            (Cash Settlement Amounts)

J.P. Morgan Trust Company, National Association, as Stock
Purchase Contract Agent
Facsimile: (212) 623-5216
Attention: Worldwide Securities Services

Re:  _________ Normal Common Equity Units of MetLife, Inc. (the "COMPANY")

     _________ Stripped Common Equity Units of the Company

            Please refer to the Pledge Agreement dated as of June 21, 2005 (the
"PLEDGE AGREEMENT"), by and among you, the Company, and the undersigned, as
Collateral Agent, Custodial Agent and Securities Intermediary. Unless otherwise
defined herein, terms defined in the Pledge Agreement are used herein as defined
therein.

            In accordance with Section 5.05(c) of the Pledge Agreement, we
hereby notify you that as of 5:00 p.m. (New York City time) on the fourth
Business Day immediately preceding { } (the "[INITIAL][SUBSEQUENT] STOCK
PURCHASE DATE"), we have received (i) $___________ in immediately available
funds paid with respect to the Cash Settlement of ___________ Normal Common
Equity Units, and (ii) based on the funds received set forth in clause (i)
above, an aggregate liquidation amount of $___________ of Pledged [Series
A][Series B] Trust Preferred Securities are to be tendered for purchase in the
Remarketing.

Dated:

                                   JPMorgan Chase Bank, National Association, as
                                        Collateral Agent

                                   By:_________________________________________
                                        Name:
                                        Title:

                                      E-1

EXHIBIT F

                    INSTRUCTION TO CUSTODIAL AGENT REGARDING
                                   REMARKETING

JPMorgan Chase Bank, National Association
The Custodial Agent
Facsimile: (212) 623-5216
Attention: Worldwide Securities Services

Re: Trust Preferred Securities of [MetLife Capital Trust II][MetLife Capital
    Trust III]

            The undersigned hereby notifies you in accordance with Section
5.07(c) of the Pledge Agreement, dated as of June 21, 2005 (the "PLEDGE
AGREEMENT"), among MetLife, Inc. (the "Company"), you, as Collateral Agent,
Custodial Agent and Securities Intermediary and J.P. Morgan Trust Company,
National Association, as the Stock Purchase Contract Agent and as
attorney-in-fact for the holders of Normal Common Equity Units from time to
time, that the undersigned elects to deliver $__________ aggregate liquidation
amount of Separate [Series A] [Series B] Trust Preferred Securities for delivery
to the Remarketing Agent on or prior to 5:00 p.m. (New York City time) on the
fifth Business Day immediately preceding the applicable Remarketing Date for
remarketing pursuant to Section 5.07(c) of the Pledge Agreement. The undersigned
will, upon request of the Remarketing Agent, execute and deliver any additional
documents deemed by the Remarketing Agent or by the Company to be necessary or
desirable to complete the sale, assignment and transfer of the Separate [Series
A] [Series B] Trust Preferred Securities tendered hereby. Capitalized terms used
herein but not defined shall have the meaning set forth in the Pledge Agreement.

            The undersigned hereby instructs you, upon receipt of the Proceeds
of such remarketing from the Remarketing Agent, to deliver such Proceeds to the
undersigned in accordance with the instructions indicated herein under "A.
Payment Instructions." The undersigned hereby instructs you, in the event of a
Failed Remarketing, upon receipt of the Separate [Series A] [Series B] Trust
Preferred Securities tendered herewith from the Remarketing Agent, to deliver
such Separate [Series A] [Series B] Trust Preferred Securities to the person(s)
and the address(es) indicated herein under "B. Delivery Instructions."

            With this notice, the undersigned hereby (i) represents and warrants
that the undersigned has full power and authority to tender, sell, assign and
transfer the Separate [Series A] [Series B] Trust Preferred Securities tendered
hereby and that the undersigned is the record owner of any [Series A] [Series B]
Trust Preferred Securities tendered herewith in physical form or a participant
in The Depository Trust Company ("DTC") and the beneficial owner of any [Series
A] [Series B] Trust Preferred Securities tendered herewith by book-entry
transfer to your account at DTC, (ii) agrees to be bound by the terms and
conditions of Section 5.07(c) of the Pledge Agreement and (iii) acknowledges and
agrees that after 5:00 p.m. (New York City time) on the fifth Business Day
immediately preceding the Remarketing Date, such election shall become an
irrevocable election to have such Separate [Series A] [Series B] Trust Preferred

                                      F-1

Securities remarketed in the Remarketing. In the case of a Failed Remarketing,
such Separate [Series A] [Series B] Trust Preferred Securities shall be returned
to the undersigned.

Dated: ________________________________    By: ________________________________
                                               Name:
                                               Title:

                                               Signature Guarantee: ___________

___________________________________  ___________________________________________
              Name                       Social Security or other Taxpayer
                                           Identification Number, if any

___________________________________
            Address

___________________________________
___________________________________

                                      F-2

A.    PAYMENT INSTRUCTIONS

Proceeds of the remarketing should be paid by check in the name of the person(s)
set forth below and mailed to the address set forth below.

Name (s)

(Please Print)
Address

(Please Print)

(Zip Code)

(Taxpayer Identification or Social Security Number)

B.    DELIVERY INSTRUCTIONS

In the event of a Failed Remarketing, [Series A] [Series B] Trust Preferred
Securities that are in physical form should be delivered to the person(s) set
forth below and mailed to the address set forth below.

Name (s)

(Please Print)
Address

(Please Print)

(Zip Code)

(Tax Identification or Social Security Number)

In the event of a Failed Remarketing, [Series A] [Series B] Trust Preferred
Securities that are in book-entry form should be credited to the account at The
Depository Trust Company set forth below.

___________________________
DTC Account Number

Name of Account Party: ____________________________

                                      F-3

EXHIBIT G

                    INSTRUCTION TO CUSTODIAL AGENT REGARDING
                           WITHDRAWAL FROM REMARKETING

JPMorgan Chase Bank, National Association
The Custodial Agent
Facsimile: (212) 623-5216
Attention: Worldwide Securities Services

Re: Trust Preferred Securities of [MetLife Capital Trust II][MetLife Capital
    Trust III]

            The undersigned hereby notifies you in accordance with Section
5.07(c) of the Pledge Agreement, dated as of June 21, 2005 (the "PLEDGE
AGREEMENT"), among MetLife, Inc. and you, as Collateral Agent, Custodial Agent
and Securities Intermediary, and J.P. Morgan Trust Company, National
Association, as Stock Purchase Contract Agent and as attorney-in-fact for the
holders of Normal Common Equity Units from time to time, that the undersigned
elects to withdraw the $__________ aggregate liquidation amount of Separate
[Series A] [Series B] Trust Preferred Securities delivered to the Custodial
Agent on _________ 200_ for remarketing pursuant to Section 5.07(c) of the
Pledge Agreement. The undersigned hereby instructs you to return such [Series A]
[Series B] Trust Preferred Securities to the undersigned in accordance with the
undersigned's instructions. With this notice, the Undersigned hereby agrees to
be bound by the terms and conditions of Section 5.07(c) of the Pledge Agreement.
Capitalized terms used herein but not defined shall have the meaning set forth
in the Pledge Agreement.

Dated: ________________________________    By: ________________________________
                                               Name:
                                               Title:

                                               Signature Guarantee: ___________

___________________________________  ___________________________________________
              Name                       Social Security or other Taxpayer
                                           Identification Number, if any

___________________________________
            Address

___________________________________
___________________________________

                                      G-1

SCHEDULE I

                        Contact Persons for Confirmation

         NAME                                     PHONE NUMBER
         ----                                     ------------
                                        1

</EX-4.86>

<EX-10.18>
 13
 y87657exv10w18.txt
 EX-10.18

EXHIBIT 10.18

                         THIS DOCUMENT CONSTITUTES PART
                       OF A PROSPECTUS COVERING SECURITIES
                            THAT HAVE BEEN REGISTERED
                        UNDER THE SECURITIES ACT OF 1933

                   MANAGEMENT RESTRICTED STOCK UNIT AGREEMENT

      MetLife, Inc. confirms that, on [GRANT DATE] (the "Grant Date"), it
granted you, [NAME], [NUMBER] Restricted Stock Units (your "Units"). Your Units
are subject to the terms and conditions of this Management Restricted Stock Unit
Agreement (this "Agreement") and the MetLife, Inc. 2005 Stock and Incentive
Compensation Plan (the "Plan").

      1. STANDARD SETTLEMENT TERMS. Except as provided in Sections 2 (Change of
Status) and 3 (Change of Control), the Period of Restriction for your Units will
expire, and each of your Units will be due and payable in the form of a Share,
on the third anniversary of the Grant Date (the "Standard Settlement Terms").

      2. CHANGE OF STATUS. For purposes of this Section 2, your transfer between
the Company and an Affiliate, or among Affiliates, will not be a termination of
employment. In the event of a Change of Control, any applicable terms of Section
3 (Change of Control) will supersede the terms of this Section 2.

      (a) Long-Term Disability. In the event of you qualify for long-term
disability benefits under a plan or arrangement offered by the Company or an
Affiliate for its Employees, the Standard Settlement Terms will continue to
apply to your Units. Once this provision applies, no other change of status
described in this Section 2 (except the provision regarding termination for
Cause) will affect your Units, even if you subsequently return to active service
or your employment with the Company or an Affiliate terminates other than for
Cause.

      (b) Death. In the event that your employment with the Company or an
Affiliate terminates due to your death, each of your Units will be due and
payable in the form of cash at a value equal to the Closing Price on the date of
your death.

      (c) Retirement. If your employment with the Company or an Affiliate
terminates (other than for Cause) on after your early retirement date or normal
retirement date (in each case determined under any ERISA qualified pension plan
offered by the Company or an Affiliate in which you participate, if any)
("Retirement"), the Standard Settlement Terms will continue to apply to your
Units.

      (d) Bridge Eligibility. If your employment with the Company or an
Affiliate terminates (other than for Cause) with bridge eligibility for
retirement-related medical benefits (determined under the ERISA qualified
benefit plan offered by the Company or an Affiliate in which you participate, if
any) ("Bridge Eligibility"), and your separation agreement (offered to you under
the severance program offered by the Company or an Affiliate to its Employees)
becomes final, the Standard Settlement Terms will continue to apply to your
Units.

      (e) Termination for Cause. In the event that your employment with the
Company or an Affiliate terminates for Cause, your Units will be forfeited
immediately.

(f) Other Termination of Employment. Unless the Committee determines
otherwise, if no other provision in this Section 2 regarding change of status
applies, including, for example, your voluntary termination of employment, your
termination without Retirement or Bridge Eligibility, or the termination of your
employment by the Company or an Affiliate without Cause, your Units will be
forfeited immediately. To the extent you are offered a separation agreement by
the Company or an Affiliate, the value of your forfeited Units may, in the
discretion of the Company or Affiliate, be considered in determining the terms
of that offer.

      3. CHANGE OF CONTROL.

      (a) Except as provided in Section 3(b), and unless otherwise prohibited
under law or by applicable rules of a national security exchange, if a Change of
Control occurs, your Units will be due and payable in the form of cash equal to
the number of your Units multiplied by the Change of Control Price, and such sum
shall be paid to you within thirty (30) day of the Change of Control.

      (b) The terms of Section 3(a) will not apply to your Units if the
Committee reasonably determines in good faith, prior to the Change of Control,
that you have been granted an Alternative Award for your Units pursuant to
Section 15.2 of the Plan.

      4. NONTRANSFERABILITY OF AWARDS. Except as provided in Section 5 or as
otherwise permitted by the Committee, you may not sell, transfer, pledge, assign
or otherwise alienate or hypothecate any of your Units, and all rights with
respect to your Units are exercisable during your lifetime only by you.

      5. BENEFICIARY DESIGNATION. You may name any beneficiary or beneficiaries
(who may be named contingently or successively) who may then exercise any right
under this Agreement in the event of your death. Each beneficiary designation
for such purpose will revoke all such prior designations. Beneficiary
designations must be properly completed on a form prescribed by the Committee
and must be filed with the Company during your lifetime. If you have not
designated a beneficiary, your rights under this Agreement will pass to and may
be exercised by your estate.

      6. TAX WITHHOLDING. The Company will withhold from payment made under this
Agreement an amount sufficient to satisfy the minimum statutory Federal, state,
and local tax withholding requirements relating to payment on account of your
Units.

      7. ADJUSTMENTS. The Committee may, in its discretion, make adjustments in
the terms and conditions of your Units in recognition of unusual or nonrecurring
events affecting the Company or its financial statements, or in recognition of
changes to applicable laws, regulations, or accounting principles, whenever the
Committee determines that such adjustments are appropriate to prevent unintended
dilution or enlargement of the potential benefits of your Units. The Committee's
determination in this regard will be conclusive.

      8. TIMING OF PAYMENT. The Company will make payment to you as reasonably
practicable after such payment become payable under this Agreement, unless you
have earlier deferred such payment in accordance with arrangements offered to
you for that purpose. If Shares are to paid to you, you will receive evidence of
ownership of those Shares.

      9. CLOSING PRICE. For purposes of this Agreement, Closing Price will mean
the closing price of a Share as reported in the principal consolidated
transaction reporting system for the New York

                                       2

Stock Exchange (or on such other recognized quotation system on which the
trading prices of the Shares are quoted at the relevant time), or in the event
that there are no Share transactions reported on such tape or other system on
the applicable date, the closing price on the immediately preceding date on
which Share transactions were reported. Closing Price shall constitute "Fair
Market Value" under the Plan for all purposes related to your Units.

      10. NO GUARANTEE OF EMPLOYMENT. This Agreement is not a contract of
employment and it is not a guarantee of employment for life or any period of
time. Nothing in this Agreement interferes with or limits in any way the right
of the Company or an Affiliates to terminate your employment at any time. This
Agreement does not give you any right to continue in the employ of the Company
or an Affiliate.

      11. GOVERNING LAW; CHOICE OF FORUM. This Agreement will be construed in
accordance with and governed by the laws of the State of Delaware, regardless of
the law that might be applied under principles of conflict of laws. Any action
to enforce this Agreement or any action otherwise regarding this Agreement must
be brought in a court in the State of New York, to which jurisdiction the
Company and you consent.

      12. MISCELLANEOUS. For purposes of this Agreement, "Committee" includes
any direct or indirect delegate of the Committee as defined in the Plan, and the
word "Section" refers to a Section in this Agreement. Any other capitalized word
used in this Agreement and not defined in this Agreement, including each form of
that word, is defined in the Plan. Any determination or interpretation by the
Committee pursuant to this Agreement will be final and conclusive. In the event
of a conflict between any term of this Agreement and the terms of the Plan, the
terms of the Plan control. This Agreement and the Plan represent the entire
agreement between you and the Company, and you and all Affiliates regarding your
Units. No promises, terms, or agreements of any kind regarding your Units that
are not set forth, or referred to, in this Agreement or in the Plan are part of
this Agreement. In the event any provision of this Agreement is held illegal or
invalid, the rest of this Agreement will remain enforceable. If you are an
Employee of an Affiliate, your Units are being provided to you by the Company on
behalf of that Affiliate, and the value of your Units will be considered a
compensation obligation of that Affiliate. Your Units are not Shares and do not
give you the rights of a holder of Shares. You will not be credited with
additional Units on account of any dividend paid on Shares. The issuance of
Shares or payment of cash pursuant to your Units is subject to all applicable
laws, rules and regulations, and to any approvals by any governmental agencies
or national securities exchanges as may be required. No Shares will be issued or
no cash will be paid if that issuance or payment would result in a violation of
applicable law, including the federal securities laws and any applicable state
or foreign securities laws.

      13. AMENDMENTS. The Committee has the exclusive right to amend this
Agreement as long as the amendment does not adversely affect any of your
previously-granted Awards in any material way (without your written consent) and
is otherwise consistent with the Plan. The Company will give written notice to
you (or, in the event of your death, to your beneficiary or estate) of any
amendment as promptly as practicable after its adoption.

      14. FEDERAL INCOME TAX CONSEQUENCES OF RESTRICTED STOCK UNITS. The
following is a brief summary of the federal income tax aspects of Restricted
Stock Units under the Plan, based upon the federal income tax laws in effect on
the date of this Agreement. This summary is not intended to be exhaustive, and
the exact tax consequences to you will depend upon your particular circumstances
and

                                       3

other factors. Generally, a Participant will not recognize income, nor will the
Company or its subsidiaries be entitled to take a deduction, on the grant of
Restricted Stock Units. A Participant will recognize ordinary income on the
value of the cash or Shares receivable, if any, in the tax year in which the
Participant receives, or has the right to receive, the cash or Shares. Future
appreciation in the Shares issued will be taxed to the Participant, when the
Participant sells any such Shares, at short or long term capital gain rates
(depending on how long the Participant held the Shares). The Company or
Affiliate that is the employer of the Participant generally will be entitled to
a tax deduction equal to the amount recognized as ordinary income by the
Participant in the same year that the Participant recognizes the ordinary
income. The Company or Affiliate will not be entitled to a tax deduction for
income recognized by a Participant on the sale of Shares or for compensation
amounts that are determined to be "unreasonable" under the tax law.

      15. AGREEMENT TO PROTECT CORPORATE PROPERTY. The grant of your Units is
subject to your execution of the Agreement to Protect Corporate Property
provided to you with this Agreement ("Property Agreement"). If you do not return
a signed copy of the Property Agreement, this Agreement and the Units granted to
you will be void. The Company may in its sole discretion allow an extension of
time for you to return your signed Property Agreement.

      IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the Company has caused its duly authorized officer to
execute this Agreement, and you have executed this Agreement.

METLIFE, INC.                                  EMPLOYEE

By: Robert H. Benmosche                         [NAME]
    -------------------
    Name

    Chairman of the Board and CEO
    -----------------------------
    Title

    ------------------------------              --------------------------------
    Signature                                   Signature

                                                Date:
                                                     ---------------------------

                                       4

</EX-10.18>

<EX-10.19>
 14
 y87657exv10w19.txt
 EX-10.19

Exhibit 10.19

             AMENDMENT TO MANAGEMENT RESTRICTED STOCK UNIT AGREEMENT

     Pursuant to the MetLife, Inc. 2005 Stock and Incentive Compensation Plan
(the "Plan"), MetLife, Inc. hereby amends your Management Restricted Stock Unit
Agreement (the "Agreement") as of December 31, 2005, as follows (this
"Amendment"):

     1. Section 2(b) of the Agreement is restated in its entirety as follows:

               "(b) Death. In the event that your employment with the Company or
          an Affiliate terminates due to your death, your Units will be
          due and payable in the form of Shares (or cash at a value equal to
          the Closing Price on the date of your death, if so determined by the
          Committee)."

     2. Any capitalized word used in this Amendment is defined in the Plan or
the Agreement. This Amendment will be construed in accordance with and governed
by the laws of the State of Delaware, regardless of the law that might be
applied under principles of conflict of laws. This Amendment, the Agreement, and
the Plan represent the entire agreement between you and the Company, and you and
all Affiliates, regarding your Units and no other promises, terms, or agreements
of any kind regarding your Units apply. In the event any provision of this
Amendment is held illegal or invalid, the rest of this Amendment will remain
enforceable.

     IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the Company has caused its duly authorized officer to
execute this Amendment.

METLIFE, INC.

By:  Robert H. Benmosche
     ---------------------------------------
     Name

     Chairman of the Board and CEO
     ---------------------------------------
     Title

/s/ Robert H. Benmosche
     ---------------------------------------
     Signature

This document constitutes part of a prospectus covering securities that
             have been registered under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended.

</EX-10.19>

<EX-10.20>
 15
 y87657exv10w20.txt
 EX-10.20

Exhibit 10.20

------------------------------------------------------------
                         This document constitutes part
                       of a prospectus covering securities
                            that have been registered
                        under the Securities Act of 1933,
                                   as amended
          ------------------------------------------------------------

MANAGEMENT RESTRICTED STOCK UNIT AGREEMENT

      MetLife, Inc. confirms that, on [grant date] (the "Grant Date"), it
granted you, [name], [number] Restricted Stock Units (your "Units"). Your Units
are subject to the terms and conditions of this Management Restricted Stock Unit
Agreement (this "Agreement") and the MetLife, Inc. 2005 Stock and Incentive
Compensation Plan (the "Plan").

      1. Standard Settlement Terms. Except as provided in Sections 2 (Change of
Status) and 3 (Change of Control), the Period of Restriction for your Units will
expire, and each of your Units will be due and payable in the form of Shares,
on the third anniversary of the Grant Date (the "Standard Settlement Terms").

      2. Change of Status. For purposes of this Section 2, your transfer between
the Company and an Affiliate, or among Affiliates, will not be a termination of
employment. In the event of a Change of Control, any applicable terms of Section
3 (Change of Control) will supersede the terms of this Section 2.

      (a) Long-Term Disability. In the event of you qualify for long-term
disability benefits under a plan or arrangement offered by the Company or an
Affiliate for its Employees, the Standard Settlement Terms will continue to
apply to your Units. Once this provision applies, no other change of status
described in this Section 2 (except the provision regarding termination for
Cause) will affect your Units, even if you subsequently return to active service
or your employment with the Company or an Affiliate terminates other than for
Cause.

      (b) Death. In the event that your employment with the Company or an
Affiliate terminates due to your death, each of your Units will be due and
payable in the form of Shares (or cash at a value equal to the Closing Price on
the date of your death, if so determined by the Committee)."

      (c) Retirement. If your employment with the Company or an Affiliate
terminates (other than for Cause) on after your early retirement date or normal
retirement date (in each case determined under any ERISA qualified pension plan
offered by the Company or an Affiliate in which you participate, if any)
("Retirement"), the Standard Settlement Terms will continue to apply to your
Units.

      (d) Bridge Eligibility. If your employment with the Company or an
Affiliate terminates (other than for Cause) with bridge eligibility for
retirement-related medical benefits (determined under the ERISA qualified
benefit plan offered by the Company or an Affiliate in which you participate, if
any) ("Bridge Eligibility"), and your separation agreement (offered to you under
the severance program offered by the Company or an Affiliate to its Employees)
becomes final, the Standard Settlement Terms will continue to apply to your
Units.

      (e) Termination for Cause. In the event that your employment with the
Company or an Affiliate terminates for Cause, your Units will be forfeited
immediately.

(f) Other Termination of Employment. Unless the Committee determines
otherwise, if no other provision in this Section 2 regarding change of status
applies, including, for example, your voluntary termination of employment, your
termination without Retirement or Bridge Eligibility, or the termination of your
employment by the Company or an Affiliate without Cause, your Units will be
forfeited immediately. To the extent you are offered a separation agreement by
the Company or an Affiliate, the value of your forfeited Units may, in the
discretion of the Company or Affiliate, be considered in determining the terms
of that offer.

      3.  Change of Control.

      (a) Except as provided in Section 3(b), and unless otherwise prohibited
under law or by applicable rules of a national security exchange, if a Change of
Control occurs, your Units will be due and payable in the form of cash equal to
the number of your Units multiplied by the Change of Control Price, and such sum
shall be paid to you within thirty (30) days of the Change of Control.

      (b) The terms of Section 3(a) will not apply to your Units if the
Committee reasonably determines in good faith, prior to the Change of Control,
that you have been granted an Alternative Award for your Units pursuant to
Section 15.2 of the Plan.

      4. Nontransferability of Awards. Except as provided in Section 5 or as
otherwise permitted by the Committee, you may not sell, transfer, pledge, assign
or otherwise alienate or hypothecate any of your Units, and all rights with
respect to your Units are exercisable during your lifetime only by you.

      5. Beneficiary Designation. You may name any beneficiary or beneficiaries
(who may be named contingently or successively) who may then exercise any right
under this Agreement in the event of your death. Each beneficiary designation
for such purpose will revoke all such prior designations. Beneficiary
designations must be properly completed on a form prescribed by the Committee
and must be filed with the Company during your lifetime. If you have not
designated a beneficiary, your rights under this Agreement will pass to and may
be exercised by your estate.

      6. Tax Withholding. The Company will withhold from payment made under this
Agreement an amount sufficient to satisfy the minimum statutory Federal, state,
and local tax withholding requirements relating to payment on account of your
Units.

      7. Adjustments. The Committee may, in its discretion, make adjustments in
the terms and conditions of your Units in recognition of unusual or nonrecurring
events affecting the Company or its financial statements, or in recognition of
changes to applicable laws, regulations, or accounting principles, whenever the
Committee determines that such adjustments are appropriate to prevent unintended
dilution or enlargement of the potential benefits of your Units. The Committee's
determination in this regard will be conclusive.

      8. Timing of Payment. The Company will make payment to you as soon as
reasonably practicable after such payment become payable under this Agreement,
unless you have earlier deferred such payment in accordance with arrangements
offered to you for that purpose. If Shares are to paid to you, you will receive
evidence of ownership of those Shares.

      9. Closing Price. For purposes of this Agreement, Closing Price will mean
the closing price of a Share as reported in the principal consolidated
transaction reporting system for the New York

2

Stock Exchange (or on such other recognized quotation system on which the
trading prices of the Shares are quoted at the relevant time), or in the event
that there are no Share transactions reported on such tape or other system on
the applicable date, the closing price on the immediately preceding date on
which Share transactions were reported. Closing Price shall constitute "Fair
Market Value" under the Plan for all purposes related to your Units.

      10. No Guarantee of Employment. This Agreement is not a contract of
employment and it is not a guarantee of employment for life or any period of
time. Nothing in this Agreement interferes with or limits in any way the right
of the Company or an Affiliates to terminate your employment at any time. This
Agreement does not give you any right to continue in the employ of the Company
or an Affiliate.

      11. Governing Law; Choice of Forum. This Agreement will be construed in
accordance with and governed by the laws of the State of Delaware, regardless of
the law that might be applied under principles of conflict of laws. Any action
to enforce this Agreement or any action otherwise regarding this Agreement must
be brought in a court in the State of New York, to which jurisdiction the
Company and you consent.

      12. Miscellaneous. For purposes of this Agreement, "Committee" includes
any direct or indirect delegate of the Committee as defined in the Plan, and the
word "Section" refers to a Section in this Agreement. Any other capitalized word
used in this Agreement and not defined in this Agreement, including each form of
that word, is defined in the Plan. Any determination or interpretation by the
Committee pursuant to this Agreement will be final and conclusive. In the event
of a conflict between any term of this Agreement and the terms of the Plan, the
terms of the Plan control. This Agreement and the Plan represent the entire
agreement between you and the Company, and you and all Affiliates regarding your
Units. No promises, terms, or agreements of any kind regarding your Units that
are not set forth, or referred to, in this Agreement or in the Plan are part of
this Agreement. In the event any provision of this Agreement is held illegal or
invalid, the rest of this Agreement will remain enforceable. If you are an
Employee of an Affiliate, your Units are being provided to you by the Company on
behalf of that Affiliate, and the value of your Units will be considered a
compensation obligation of that Affiliate. Your Units are not Shares and do not
give you the rights of a holder of Shares. You will not be credited with
additional Units on account of any dividend paid on Shares. The issuance of
Shares or payment of cash pursuant to your Units is subject to all applicable
laws, rules and regulations, and to any approvals by any governmental agencies
or national securities exchanges as may be required. No Shares will be issued or
no cash will be paid if that issuance or payment would result in a violation of
applicable law, including the federal securities laws and any applicable state
or foreign securities laws.

      13. Amendments. The Committee has the exclusive right to amend this
Agreement as long as the amendment does not adversely affect any of your
previously-granted Awards in any material way (without your written consent) and
is otherwise consistent with the Plan. The Company will give written notice to
you (or, in the event of your death, to your beneficiary or estate) of any
amendment as promptly as practicable after its adoption.

      14. Federal Income Tax Consequences of Restricted Stock Units. The
following is a brief summary of the federal income tax aspects of Restricted
Stock Units under the Plan, based upon the federal income tax laws in effect on
the date of this Agreement. This summary is not intended to be exhaustive, and
the exact tax consequences to you will depend upon your particular circumstances
and

3

other factors. Generally, a Participant will not recognize income, nor will the
Company or its subsidiaries be entitled to take a deduction, on the grant of
Restricted Stock Units. A Participant will recognize ordinary income on the
value of the cash or Shares receivable, if any, in the tax year in which the
Participant receives, or has the right to receive, the cash or Shares. Future
appreciation in the Shares issued will be taxed to the Participant, when the
Participant sells any such Shares, at short or long term capital gain rates
(depending on how long the Participant held the Shares). The Company or
Affiliate that is the employer of the Participant generally will be entitled to
a tax deduction equal to the amount recognized as ordinary income by the
Participant in the same year that the Participant recognizes the ordinary
income. The Company or Affiliate will not be entitled to a tax deduction for
income recognized by a Participant on the sale of Shares or for compensation
amounts that are determined to be "unreasonable" under the tax law.

      15. Agreement to Protect Corporate Property. The grant of your Units is
subject to your execution of the Agreement to Protect Corporate Property
provided to you with this Agreement ("Property Agreement"). If you do not return
a signed copy of the Property Agreement, this Agreement and the Units granted to
you will be void. The Company may in its sole discretion allow an extension of
time for you to return your signed Property Agreement.

      IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the Company has caused its duly authorized officer to
execute this Agreement, and you have executed this Agreement.

METLIFE, INC.                                   EMPLOYEE

By:  Robert H. Benmosche                        [name]
     -----------------------------              ------
     Name

     Chairman of the Board and CEO
     -----------------------------
     Title

------------------------------              --------------------------------
    Signature                                   Signature

                                                Date:
                                                     ---------------------------

4

</EX-10.20>

<EX-10.29>
 16
 y87657exv10w29.txt
 EX-10.29

EXHIBIT 10.29

CLARIFICATION OF MANAGEMENT PERFORMANCE SHARE AGREEMENT

         MetLife, Inc. hereby clarifies your Management Performance Share
Agreement as follows (this "Clarification"):

         1.  Section 1(c) of the Agreement is restated in its entirety as
             follows:

                  "(c) The Committee will determine your Final Performance
         Shares by multiplying your Performance Shares by the "Performance
         Factor." The Performance Factor means a percentage (from zero to 200%)
         which is the sum of two other percentages (each from zero to 100%),
         described in (1) and (2) below.

                           (1) The first percentage will be based on the
                  Company's performance with respect to Change in Annual Net
                  Operating Earnings Per Share during the Performance Period
                  relative to the other companies in the Standard and Poor's
                  Insurance Index, determined according to Table 1 of Schedule A
                  to this Agreement. For this purpose, (a) "Net Operating
                  Earnings Per Share" for any period means income, net of all
                  taxes on income, less realized investment gains or losses and
                  excluding any cumulative charges or benefits due to changes in
                  accounting principles, divided by the weighted average number
                  of shares outstanding during such period determined on a
                  diluted basis under Generally Accepted Accounting Principles;
                  and (b) "Change in Annual Net Operating Earnings Per Share"
                  means Net Operating Earnings Per Share in the final calendar
                  year of the Performance Period divided by Net Operating
                  Earnings Per Share in the calendar year immediately preceding
                  the beginning of the Performance Period.

                           (2) The second percentage will be based on the
                  Company's performance with respect to Proportionate Total
                  Shareholder Return during the Performance Period relative to
                  the other companies in the Standard and Poor's Insurance
                  Index, determined according to Table 2 of Schedule A to this
                  Agreement. For this purpose, (a) "Initial Closing Price" means
                  the average Closing Price (and, in the case of a company other
                  than the Company, the most closely analogous price) in the
                  twenty (20) trading days prior to the first day of the
                  Performance Period; (b) "Final Closing Price" means the
                  average Closing Price (and, the case of an entity other than
                  the Company, the most closely analogous price) in the twenty
                  (20) trading days prior to and including the final day of the
                  Performance Period; (c) "Total Shareholder Return" means the
                  change (plus or minus) from the Initial Closing Price to the
                  Final Closing Price, plus dividends (if any) actually paid on
                  Shares (or, in the case of a company other than the Company,
                  the most closely analogous security) on a reinvested basis
                  from the first day of the Performance Period to and including
                  the last day of the Performance Period; and (d) "Proportionate
                  Total Shareholder Return" means Total Shareholder Return
                  divided by Initial Closing Price."

         2. The heading of the left column of Table 1 of Schedule A to the
Agreement is restated in its entirety as follows: "Change in Annual Net
Operating Earnings Per Share Company Performance (Percentile Relative to Other
Companies in S&P Ins. Index)."

This document constitutes part of a prospectus covering securities
           that have been registered under the Securities Act of 1933.
 
         3. The heading of the right column of Table 1 of Schedule A to the
Agreement is restated in its entirety as follows: "Proportionate Total
Shareholder Return Company Performance (Percentile Relative to Other Companies
in S&P Ins. Index)."

         4. Any capitalized word used in this Clarification and not defined in
this Clarification, including each form of that word, is defined in the Plan or
the Agreement. This Clarification will be construed in accordance with and
governed by the laws of the State of Delaware, regardless of the law that might
be applied under principles of conflict of laws. This Clarification, the
Agreement, and the Plan represent the entire agreement between you and the
Company, and you and all Affiliates, regarding your Performance Shares. No
promises, terms, or agreements of any kind regarding your Performance Shares
that are not set forth, or referred to, in this Agreement or in the Plan are
part of this Agreement. In the event any provision of this Clarification is held
illegal or invalid, the rest of this Agreement will remain enforceable.

         IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the Company has caused its duly authorized officer
to execute this Clarification.

METLIFE, INC.

By:  Robert H. Benmosche
     -------------------
     Name

     Chairman of the Board and CEO
     -----------------------------
     Title

     /s/ Robert H. Benmosche
     ----------------------------------
     Signature

This document constitutes part of a prospectus covering securities
           that have been registered under the Securities Act of 1933.

2

</EX-10.29>

<EX-10.30>
 17
 y87657exv10w30.txt
 EX-10.30

Exhibit 10.30

               AMENDMENT TO MANAGEMENT PERFORMANCE SHARE AGREEMENT

     Pursuant to the MetLife, Inc. 2005 Stock and Incentive Compensation Plan
(the "Plan"), MetLife, Inc. hereby amends your Management Performance Share
Agreement (the "Agreement") as of December 31, 2005, as follows (this
"Amendment"):

     1. Section 2(b) of the Agreement is restated in its entirety as follows:

               "(b) Death. In the event that your employment with the Company or
          an Affiliate terminates due to your death, your Performance Shares
          will be due and payable in Shares (or cash at a value equal to the
          Closing Price on the date of your death, if so determined by the
          Committee)."

     2. Any capitalized word used in this Amendment is defined in the Plan or
the Agreement. This Amendment will be construed in accordance with and governed
by the laws of the State of Delaware, regardless of the law that might be
applied under principles of conflict of laws. This Amendment, the Agreement
(including any Clarification), and the Plan represent the entire agreement
between you and the Company, and you and all Affiliates, regarding your
Performance Shares and no other promises, terms, or agreements of any kind
regarding your Performance Shares apply. In the event any provision of this
Amendment is held illegal or invalid, the rest of this Amendment will remain
enforceable.

     IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the Company has caused its duly authorized officer to
execute this Amendment.

METLIFE, INC.

By:  Robert H. Benmosche
     ---------------------------------------
     Name

     Chairman of the Board and CEO
     ---------------------------------------
     Title

/s/ Robert H. Benmosche
     ---------------------------------------
      Signature

This document constitutes part of a prospectus covering securities
    that have been registered under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended.

</EX-10.30>

<EX-10.31>
 18
 y87657exv10w31.txt
 EX-10.31

Exhibit 10.31

                    MANAGEMENT PERFORMANCE SHARE AGREEMENT

      MetLife, Inc. confirms that, on [grant date] (the "Grant Date"), it
granted you, [name], [number] Performance Shares (your "Performance Shares").
Your Performance Shares are subject to the terms and conditions of this
Management Performance Share Agreement (this "Agreement") and the MetLife, Inc.
2005 Stock and Incentive Compensation Plan (the "Plan").

      1.  Standard Performance Terms.

      (a) The Performance Period for your Performance Shares will begin on
[date], [year] and end on the December 31 immediately preceding the third
anniversary of the beginning of the Performance Period.

      (b) Except in so far as Sections 2 (Change of Status) or 3 (Change of
Control) apply to your Performance Shares, after the conclusion of the
Performance Period, the Committee shall certify in writing the number of
Performance Shares payable in accordance with Section 1(c) (your "Final
Performance Shares"), and your Final Performance Shares will be due and payable
in Shares.

      (c) The Committee will determine your Final Performance Shares by
multiplying your Performance Shares by the "Performance Factor." The Performance
Factor means a percentage (from zero to 200%) which is the sum of two other
percentages (each from zero to 100%), described in (1) and (2) below.

            (1) The first percentage will be based on the Company's performance
      with respect to Change in Annual Net Operating Earnings Per Share during
      the Performance Period relative to the other companies in the Standard and
      Poor's Insurance Index, determined according to Table 1 of Schedule A to
      this Agreement. For this purpose, (a) "Net Operating Earnings Per Share"
      for any period means income, net of all taxes on income, less realized
      investment gains or losses, less any dividends paid on preferred shares,
      and excluding any cumulative charges or benefits due to changes in
      accounting principles, divided by the weighted average number of shares
      outstanding during such period determined on a diluted basis under
      Generally Accepted Accounting Principles; and (b) "Change in Annual Net
      Operating Earnings Per Share" means Net Operating Earnings Per Share in
      the final calendar year of the Performance Period divided by Net Operating
      Earnings Per Share in the calendar year immediately preceding the
      beginning of the Performance Period.

            (2) The second percentage will be based on the Company's performance
      with respect to Proportionate Total Shareholder Return during the
      Performance Period relative to the other companies in the Standard and
      Poor's Insurance Index, determined according to Table 2 of Schedule A to
      this Agreement. For this purpose, (a) "Initial Closing Price" means the
      average Closing Price (and, in the case of a company other than the
      Company, the most closely analogous price) in the twenty (20) trading days
      prior to the first day of the Performance Period; (b) "Final Closing
      Price" means the average Closing Price (and, the case of a company other
      than the Company, the most closely analogous price) in the twenty (20)
      trading days prior to and including the final day of the Performance
      Period; (c) "Total Shareholder Return" means the change (plus or minus)
      from the Initial Closing Price to the Final Closing Price, plus dividends
      (if any) actually paid on Shares (or, in the case of a company other than
      the Company, the most closely analogous security) on a reinvested basis
      from the first day of the

Performance Period to and including the last day of the Performance
      Period; and (d) "Proportionate Total Shareholder Return" means Total
      Shareholder Return divided by Initial Closing Price.

      (d) For these purposes, the Standard & Poor's Insurance Index means each
company which is described by either of the following criteria:

            (1)  the company is included in such index for the entirety of
      the Performance Period; or

            (2) the company is included in such index on the final day of the
      Performance Period, and at least fifty percent (50%) of the securities
      entitled to vote for the directors of that company were owned, directly or
      indirectly, immediately after and as the result of a merger, acquisition,
      or other similar corporate transaction, by a majority of the shareholders
      (determined immediately prior to such transaction) of a company that was
      either: (i) included in such index on the first day of the Performance
      Period, or (ii) described by this Section 1(d)(2).

      (e) The terms of this Section 1 shall be referred to as the "Standard
Performance Terms."

      2. Change of Status. For purposes of this Section 2, your transfer between
the Company and an Affiliate, or among Affiliates, will not be a termination of
employment. In the event of a Change of Control, any applicable terms of Section
3 (Change of Control) will supersede the terms of this Section 2.

      (a) Long-Term Disability. In the event you qualify for long-term
disability benefits under a plan or arrangement offered by the Company or an
Affiliate for its Employees, the Standard Performance Terms will continue to
apply to your Performance Shares. Once this provision applies, no other change
of status described in this Section 2 (except the provision regarding
termination for Cause) will affect your Performance Shares, even if you
subsequently return to active service or your employment with the Company or an
Affiliate terminates other than for Cause.

      (b) Death. In the event that your employment with the Company or an
Affiliate terminates due to your death, your Performance Shares will be due and
payable in Shares (or cash at a value equal to the Closing Price on the date of
your death, if so determined by the Committee).

      (c) Retirement. If your employment with the Company or an Affiliate
terminates (other than for Cause) on after your early retirement date or normal
retirement date (in each case determined under any ERISA qualified pension plan
offered by the Company or an Affiliate in which you participate) ("Retirement"),
the Standard Performance Terms will continue to apply to your Performance
Shares.

      (d) Bridge Eligibility. If your employment with the Company or an
Affiliate terminates (other than for Cause) with bridge eligibility for
retirement-related medical benefits (determined under an ERISA qualified benefit
plan offered by the Company or an Affiliate in which you participate, if any)
("Bridge Eligibility"), and your separation agreement (offered to you under the
severance program offered by the Company or an Affiliate to its Employees)
becomes final, the Standard Performance Terms will continue to apply to your
Performance Shares.

2

(e) Termination for Cause. In the event that your employment with the
Company or an Affiliate terminates for Cause, your Performance Shares will be
forfeited immediately.

      (f) Other Termination of Employment. Unless the Committee determines
otherwise, if no other provision in this Section 2 regarding change of status
applies, including, for example, your voluntary termination of employment, your
termination without Retirement or Bridge Eligibility, or your termination by the
Company or an Affiliate without Cause, your Performance Shares will be forfeited
immediately. To the extent you are offered a separation agreement by the Company
or an Affiliate, the value of your forfeited Performance Shares may, in the
discretion of the Company or Affiliate, be considered in determining the terms
of that offer.

      3.  Change of Control.

      (a) Except as provided in Section 3(b), and unless otherwise prohibited
under law or by applicable rules of a national security exchange, if a Change of
Control occurs, your Performance Shares will be due and payable in the form of
cash equal to the number of your Performance Shares multiplied by the Change of
Control Price, and such sum shall be paid to you within thirty (30) days of the
Change of Control.

      (b) The terms of Section 3(a) will not apply to your Performance Shares if
the Committee reasonably determines in good faith, prior to the Change of
Control, that you have been granted an Alternative Award for your Performance
Shares pursuant to Section 15.2 of the Plan.

      4. Nontransferability of Awards. Except as provided in Section 5 or as
otherwise permitted by the Committee, you may not sell, transfer, pledge, assign
or otherwise alienate or hypothecate any of your Performance Shares, and all
rights with respect to your Performance Shares are exercisable during your
lifetime only by you.

      5. Beneficiary Designation. You may name any beneficiary or beneficiaries
(who may be named contingently or successively) who may then exercise any right
under this Agreement in the event of your death. Each beneficiary designation
for such purpose will revoke all such prior designations. Beneficiary
designations must be properly completed on a form prescribed by the Committee
and must be filed with the Company during your lifetime. If you have not
designated a beneficiary, your rights under this Agreement will pass to and may
be exercised by your estate.

      6. Tax Withholding. The Company will withhold from payment made under this
Agreement an amount sufficient to satisfy the minimum statutory Federal, state,
and local tax withholding requirements relating to payment on account of your
Performance Shares.

      7. Adjustments. The Committee may, in its discretion, make adjustments in
the terms and conditions of your Performance Shares in recognition of unusual or
nonrecurring events affecting the Company or its financial statements, or in
recognition of changes to applicable laws, regulations, or accounting
principles, whenever the Committee determines that such adjustments are
appropriate to prevent unintended dilution or enlargement of the potential
benefits of your Performance Shares. The Committee's determination in this
regard will be conclusive.

      8. Timing of Payment. The Company will make payment to you as soon as
reasonably practicable after such payment becomes payable under this Agreement,
unless you have earlier

3

deferred such payment in accordance with arrangements offered to you for that
purpose. If Shares are to be paid to you, you will receive evidence of ownership
of those Shares.

      9. Closing Price. For purpose of this Agreement, "Closing Price" will mean
the closing price of a Share as reported in the principal consolidated
transaction reporting system for the New York Stock Exchange (or on such other
recognized quotation system on which the trading prices of the Shares are quoted
at the relevant time), or in the event that there are no Share transactions
reported on such tape or other system on the applicable date, the closing price
on the immediately preceding date on which Share transactions were reported.
Closing Price shall constitute "Fair Market Value" under the Plan for all
purposes related to your Performance Shares.

      10. No Guarantee of Employment. This Agreement is not a contract of
employment and it is not a guarantee of employment for life or any period of
time. Nothing in this Agreement interferes with or limits in any way the right
of the Company or an Affiliates to terminate your employment at any time. This
Agreement does not give you any right to continue in the employ of the Company
or an Affiliate.

      11. Governing Law; Choice of Forum. This Agreement will be construed in
accordance with and governed by the laws of the State of Delaware, regardless of
the law that might be applied under principles of conflict of laws. Any action
to enforce this Agreement or any action otherwise regarding this Agreement must
be brought in a court in the State of New York, to which jurisdiction the
Company and you consent.

      12. Miscellaneous. For purposes of this Agreement, "Committee" includes
any direct or indirect delegate of the Committee as defined in the Plan and the
word "Section" refers to a Section in this Agreement. Any other capitalized word
used in this Agreement and not defined in this Agreement, including each form of
that word, is defined in the Plan. Any determination or interpretation by the
Committee pursuant to this Agreement will be final and conclusive. In the event
of a conflict between any term of this Agreement and the terms of the Plan, the
terms of the Plan control. This Agreement and the Plan represent the entire
agreement between you and the Company, and you and all Affiliates, regarding
your Performance Shares. No promises, terms, or agreements of any kind regarding
your Performance Shares that are not set forth, or referred to, in this
Agreement or in the Plan are part of this Agreement. In the event any provision
of this Agreement is held illegal or invalid, the rest of this Agreement will
remain enforceable. If you are an Employee of an Affiliate, your Performance
Shares are being provided to you by the Company on behalf of that Affiliate, and
the value of your Performance Shares will be considered a compensation
obligation of that Affiliate. Your Performance Shares are not Shares and do not
give you the rights of a holder of Shares. You will not be credited with
additional Performance Shares on account of any dividend paid on Shares. The
issuance of Shares or payment of cash pursuant to your Performance Shares is
subject to all applicable laws, rules and regulations, and to any approvals by
any governmental agencies or national securities exchanges as may be required.
No Shares will be issued or no cash will be paid if that issuance or payment
would result in a violation of applicable law, including the federal securities
laws and any applicable state or foreign securities laws.

      13. Amendments. The Committee has the exclusive right to amend this
Agreement as long as the amendment does not adversely affect any of your
previously-granted Awards in any material way (without your written consent) and
is otherwise consistent with the Plan. The Company will give

4

written notice to you (or, in the event of your death, to your beneficiary or
estate) of any amendment as promptly as practicable after its adoption.

      14. Agreement to Protect Corporate Property. The grant of your Performance
Shares is subject to your execution of the Agreement to Protect Corporate
Property provided to you with this Agreement ("Property Agreement"). If you do
not return a signed copy of the Property Agreement, this Agreement and the
Performance Shares granted to you will be void. The Company may in its sole
discretion allow an extension of time for you to return your signed Property
Agreement.

      IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the Company has caused its duly authorized officer to
execute this Agreement, and you have executed this Agreement.

METLIFE, INC.                                   EMPLOYEE

By:  Robert H. Benmosche                        [name]
     --------------------------------           ------
     Name

     Chairman of the Board and CEO
     --------------------------------
     Title

----------------------------------          --------------------------------
    Signature                                   Signature

                                                Date:
                                                     ---------------------------

5

Schedule A
                  to Management Performance Share Agreement

* First percentage and second percentage are added together and the total is
multiplied by the number of Performance Shares granted to determine the number
of Final Performance Shares. See Section 1(c) of this Agreement.

</EX-10.31>

<EX-10.48>
 19
 y87657exv10w48.txt
 EX-10.48

EXHIBIT 10.48

                             AMENDMENT NUMBER ONE TO
             THE METLIFE ANNUAL VARIABLE INCENTIVE PLAN (THE "PLAN")

         The Plan is hereby amended in the manner set forth below:

     1.  Article 4 of the Plan is amended to add a new Section 4.5 at the end
thereof, to read as follows:

         4.5      TIMING OF PAYMENT. Subject to Section 4.4, all Awards granted
                  under this Plan shall, if payable, be paid on or before March
                  15 of the calendar year following the calendar year with
                  regard to which the performance criteria or other
                  contingencies that pertain to the Award (other than continued
                  employment with the Company or an Affiliate or other
                  contingency related to continued service until the date on
                  which the Award is payable) apply. No Participant or any other
                  person shall have any right to receive any payment of interest
                  or other remedy due to any payment of an Award on a date other
                  than as provided in the immediately preceding sentence.

     2.  This Amendment will be effective immediately upon execution.

     3. Except as otherwise expressly provided herein, the Plan (including any
amendments thereto) shall continue in full force and effect without amendment.

IN WITNESS WHEREOF, this amendment is approved.

METLIFE, INC.

/s/ Gwenn L. Carr
-------------------------------------------------
Gwenn L. Carr
Senior Vice President and Secretary

Date:  December 15, 2005
       ----------------------------

Witness:  /s/ Christine Martinez
          ---------------------------------------
          Christine Martinez

</EX-10.48>

<EX-10.52>
 20
 y87657exv10w52.htm
 EX-10.52

exv10w52 

Exhibit 10.52 

MetLife, Inc. 

Board of Directors

December 14, 2010

ON MOTION, it was RESOLVED:

(1) 
       
     That the Compensation Committee and the Board of Directors approves that the Annual Variable
Incentive Plan ( AVIP ) awards for 2011 performance shall constitute Cash-Based Awards under
the MetLife, Inc. 2005 Stock and Incentive Compensation Plan (the  Stock and Incentive Plan  

(2) 
       
     That the measures to be used to determine performance results for establishing the amount to
be available for payment of awards under AVIP for 2011 performance (the  2011 Available
Amount ) are approved in all respects substantially in the form described in the memorandum
presented to the Board and filed with the records of the meeting, subject to Compensation
Committee discretion to increase or decrease the 2011 Available Amount; 

(a) 
       
     Positive Company income from continuing operations before provision for income
tax, excluding net investment gains (losses) (determined in accordance with Section
3(a) of Article 7.04 of SEC Regulation S-X), which includes total net investment gains
(losses) and net derivatives gains (losses), as presented in the financial statements
in the Company s Annual Report on Form 10-K for 2010, for 2011. 

(b) 
       
     Positive MetLife, Inc. Proportionate Total Shareholder Return, as defined for
MetLife, Inc. in Section 1(d)(2) of the form of Management Performance Share Agreement
used for awards for the 2011-2013 Performance Period (the  Performance Share
Agreement ), for 2011. 

(4) 
       
     That the Chief Executive Officer of the Company ( CEO ) and each other member of the
Company s Executive Group shall be eligible for an AVIP award for 2011 of $10 million if any
one or more of the 2011 Section 162(m) Goals is met;  provided, however , that the
Compensation Committee (the  Committee ) shall retain the ability, in its discretion, to
reduce the amount of the award payable (including reducing the amount payable to zero) based
on such factors or considerations that the Committee shall deem appropriate, including but not
limited to the amounts that would have been payable to the CEO or other

member of the Company s Executive Group, respectively, under the methodology applicable to
other employees under AVIP; 

(5) 
       
     That if the Company does not meet any of the 2011 Section 162(m) Goals, neither the CEO nor
any of the other members of the Company s Executive Group shall be eligible for any AVIP award
for 2011; and 

(6) 
       
     That the Officers of the Company be and hereby are authorized, in the name and on behalf of
the Company, to (a) take or cause to be taken any and all such further actions and to prepare,
execute and deliver or cause to be prepared, executed and delivered, and where necessary or
appropriate, file or cause to be filed with the appropriate governmental authorities, all such
other instruments and documents, including but not limited to all certificates, contracts,
bonds, agreements, documents, instruments, receipts or other papers, (b) incur and pay or
cause to be paid all fees and expenses and (c) engage such persons, in each case as such
Officer shall in that Officer s judgment determine to be necessary or appropriate to carry out
fully the intent and purposes of the foregoing resolutions and each of the transactions
contemplated thereby. 

</EX-10.52>

<EX-10.55>
 21
 y87657exv10w55.htm
 EX-10.55

exv10w55 

Exhibit 10.55 

AMENDMENT NUMBER 2 TO THE

METROPOLITAN LIFE AUXILIARY

SAVINGS AND INVESTMENT PLAN

(Amended and Restated Effective January 1, 2008)

1. Section 2.1 of the Plan is hereby amended as follows:

2.1  Administrative Participant  means any Participant in the Plan who is not classified by the
Company as a Commissioned Participant. 

2. There is hereby added to the end of Section 4.9 a new subsection to be known as subsection (c).
Subsection (c) shall provide as follows:

(c)  Effect of Rehire As Administrative Participant . In the event that an
Administrative Participant has experienced a Termination of Employment and is later rehired by the
Company, his or her rights with respect to any election made under this Section shall be determined
as follows:

(1) If such Participant made an election under subsection (b) of this Section prior to
his or her Termination of Employment, whether or not payments under this Plan in accordance
with such election had commenced prior to the date of his or her reemployment by the
Company, then payments will commence when scheduled in accordance with the terms of such
Participant s election or continue if such payments have already commenced. Upon such
Participant s reemployment any Company Contributions allocated to such Participant s Account
under this Plan will be included as part of future payments under such election. Following
the distribution of the final payment in accordance with such Participant s election, such
Participant s election of the time and form of distribution will be governed solely by
subsection (a), unless such Participant makes a subsequent election in accordance with
subsection (b). Any Company Contributions allocated to the Participant s Account following
the distribution of the final payment in accordance with the Participant s election shall be
retained in such Participant s Account until such Participant s subsequent Termination of
Employment, at

1 

which time distribution of such Participant s Account shall commence, either in
accordance with subsection (a) or subsection (b).

(2) If such Participant has not made an election in accordance with subsection (b) at
the time of his or her Termination of Employment, then she or he will receive his or her
Account under this Plan in the Default Mode of Payment at the Default Commencement Date,
notwithstanding the fact that such Participant is reemployed by the Company prior to the
Default Commencement Date. If Company Contributions are allocated to such Participant s
Account following the date of his or her Termination of Employment, but prior to the Default
Commencement Date, such Contributions will be included in the Default Mode of Payment. Once
such Participant has received a final distribution of his or her Account under subsection
(a), any Company Contributions which are allocated to such Participant s Account following
his or her final payment shall then be distributed following his or her subsequent
Termination of Employment in accordance with subsection (a), unless such Participant makes
an election in accordance with subsection (b). 

3. Section 8.2(b) of the Plan is hereby amended as follows:

(b)  Limitations of Time for Submitting Claims and Suits Challenging Denial of Claims .
No suit to recover benefits under this Plan or to allege that the Plan was not administered in
accordance with its terms and/or ERISA shall be brought more than six months following the
expiration of the claims and review procedures described in subsection (a). If a Participant has
received or has commenced to receive a distribution from the Plan, no claim for benefits under the
Plan s claims and review procedures described in subsection (a) shall be made regarding the
calculation of the amount of the benefits more than six months following the date on which the
Participant received or commenced to receive such distribution 

2 

4. This Amendment shall become effective on January 1, 2010.

IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the Company has caused this Amendment to be executed in its name and behalf
this 21 st  day of December, 2010, by its officer thereunto duly authorized.

Metropolitan Life Insurance
Company  

By: 
       
     /s/ Andrew J. Bernstein 

ATTEST:

/s/ Candice Martin  

3 

</EX-10.55>

<EX-10.57>
 22
 y87657exv10w57.txt
 EX-10.57

EXHIBIT 10.57

                  AMENDMENT NUMBER ONE TO THE METLIFE DEFERRED
                         COMPENSATION PLAN FOR OFFICERS
                (As amended and restated as of November 1, 2003)

      WHEREAS, the MetLife Deferred Compensation Plan for Officers, as last
amended and restated November 1, 2003 (the "PLAN"), was adopted to permit
certain eligible employees voluntarily to defer the payment of certain types of
compensation;

      WHEREAS, certain other nonqualified deferred compensation arrangements
have been entered into with employees who are eligible to participate in the
Plan, which arrangements either expressly or implicitly incorporate aspects of
the Plan, and/or are otherwise administered, in whole or in part, in a manner
consistent with the administration of the Plan;

      WHEREAS, to facilitate the administration of such other arrangements, it
has been recommended that such arrangements be incorporated into the Plan
(cognizant of the need to preserve the differences from the Plan terms mandated
by such arrangements, including, but not limited to, in order to avoid
subjecting the amounts deferred under such arrangements and the Plan to the
additional taxes imposed under Section 409A of the Internal Revenue Code of
1986, as amended);

      WHEREAS, pursuant to Section 20 of the Plan, the Plan Administrator has
reserved the right to amend the Plan;

      NOW, THEREFORE, the Plan is hereby amended in the manner set forth below:

      1.    Section 2 is amended to add a new Section 2.7 at the end thereof, to
read as follows:

            2.7. The Plan Administrator may permit other non-qualified deferred
      compensation arrangements between an Eligible Associate and any MetLife
      Company or an affiliate of any MetLife Company, whether or not elective,
      to be administered under and treated as part of the Plan. The Plan
      Administrator shall establish a separate Alternative Compensation Account
      for an Eligible Associate who is party to a non-qualified deferred
      compensation arrangement treated as part

of the Plan. Unless otherwise specified herein, on Annex I or by the Plan
      Administrator in writing, the general provisions of the Plan shall apply
      to any such Alternative Compensation Account, including without
      limitation, those provisions related to (i) the value of the Alternative
      Contribution Account (including the Investment Tracking of such Account),
      (ii) the timing, number and form of payments from such Account and (iii)
      the designation of any beneficiary(ies) to receive payment from such
      Account upon the death of the Participant. Notwithstanding the immediately
      preceding sentence, unless otherwise provided by the terms of the
      applicable non-qualified deferred compensation arrangement as in effect on
      October 3, 2004, no distribution shall be made from any Alternative
      Contribution Account pursuant to Section 12, 13 or 14 of the Plan.

      2.    Section 10 is amended to add a new Section 10.3.11 at the end of
Section 10.3 thereof, to read as follows:

            10.3.11. Notwithstanding anything in this Section 10.3 to the
      contrary, payment in respect of any Alternative Compensation Account shall
      not be accelerated from the date payment would have been made under the
      corresponding nonqualified deferred compensation arrangement, as
      identified on Annex I or as otherwise specified in writing by the Plan
      Administrator.

      3.    Section 21 is amended to new Sections 21.2 and 21.3 thereto, to read
as follows, and to appropriately renumber all other sections thereof to reflect
the addition of such Section:

      21.2  "Alternative Compensation Account" means a record-keeping account
            established for the benefit of an Eligible Associate in which is
            credited such amounts of compensation as are deferred under the
            nonqualified deferred compensation arrangement to which such Account
            relates.

      21.3  "Annex I" means the schedule established by the Plan Administrator,
            as the same may be amended by the Plan Administrator at any time and
            from time to time, on which is specified the terms of any
            non-qualified deferred compensation arrangement that is to be
            administered as part of the Plan that deviate from the general terms
            of the Plan. Annex I, as in effect from time to time, is expressly
            incorporated herein by reference and made a part hereof.

                                       2

4.    Section 21 is further amended to add a new second sentence to
Section 21.11 (as renumbered pursuant to item 3 of this Amendment), "Deferred
Compensation Account", to read as follows:

      To the extent the context so requires, the term Deferred Compensation
      Account, as applied to any Participant, shall also include any Alternative
      Compensation Account established for the benefit of such Participant.

      5.    Section 21 is further amended to add a new second sentence at the
end of Section 21.23 (as renumbered pursuant to item 3 of this Amendment),
"Participant", to read as follows:

      To the extent that the context so requires, the term Participant shall
      also include any Eligible Associate for whose benefit an Alternative
      Compensation Account has been established under the Plan.

      6.    The Plan is further amended to add at the end thereof of a new Annex
I, as is attached hereto, which is incorporated herein by reference and made a
part hereof.

      7.    Except as otherwise expressly provided herein, the Plan shall
continue in full force and affect, without amendment. For the avoidance of
doubt, nothing in this amendment shall, or shall be construed to, amend or
modify any provision or term of the Plan with respect to amounts otherwise
credited thereunder immediately prior to the execution of this Amendment.

      IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the amendment to the MetLife Deferred Compensation
Plan has been executed by the Plan Administrator thereof, on this 4th day of
May, 2005.

PLAN ADMINISTRATOR

/s/ Graham Cox
__________________________

                                       3

EFFECTIVE DATE OF
                                ARRANGEMENT                                                   TIMING OF DISTRIBUTIONS
   NAME OF ELIGIBLE         AND INITIAL DEFERRED          INVESTMENT TRACKING, IF                 FROM ALTERNATIVE
       ASSOCIATE                   AMOUNT                   DIFFERENT FROM PLAN                 COMPENSATION ACCOUNT
---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
                                                                                    
Robert Benmosche        July 20, 1995 (Sign-on bonus  Investment tracking to be based    Lump sum distribution upon
                        subject to 5 year vesting     solely on interest rate            retirement from service as an
                        condition)                    credited under MetLife SIP         employee of the MetLife Companies
                                                      Fixed Income Fund (as referenced
                                                      in Section 6.2 of the Plan) at
                                                      time of deferral

                        $400,000

Robert Benmosche        April 1, 1996 (elective       Investment tracking to be based    10 approximately equal annual
                        deferral of portion of        solely on interest rate credited   installments (adjusted for
                        future 1996 monthly salary)   under MetLife SIP Fixed Income     interest accrued) commencing in
                                                      Fund (as referenced in Section     June, 2009
                                                      6.2 of the Plan) at time of
                                                      deferral

                        $12,000 per month (aggregate
                        deferral of $108,000)

Robert Benmosche        January 1, 1997 (elective     Investment tracking to be based    10 approximately equal annual
                        deferral of portion of        solely on interest rate credited   installments (adjusted for interest
                        future 1997 monthly salary)   under MetLife SIP Fixed Income     accrued) commencing in June, 2009
                                                      Fund (as referenced in Section
                                                      6.2 of the Plan) at time of
                                                      deferral

                        $22,000 per month (aggregate
                        deferral of $264,000)

Lisa Weber              February 4, 1998 (Sign-on     N/A -- Investment Tracking in      In five annual installments
                        bonus subject to 5 year       accordance with terms of the Plan  commencing upon termination of
                        vesting condition)                                               service as an employee of the
                                                                                         MetLife Companies
                        $750,000

</EX-10.57>

<EX-10.58>
 23
 y87657exv10w58.txt
 EX-10.58

EXHIBIT 10.58

AMENDMENT NUMBER TWO TO
               THE METLIFE DEFERRED COMPENSATION PLAN FOR OFFICERS
          (AS AMENDED AND RESTATED AS OF NOVEMBER 1, 2003) (THE "PLAN")

         The Plan is hereby amended in the manner set forth below:

     1.  The final sentence of Section 8 is amended to read as follows:

         Notwithstanding the foregoing, no Matching Contributions shall be
         credited in favor of a Participant during the suspension of such
         Participant's deferrals pursuant to Section 4.6 of this Plan, no
         Matching Contributions shall be credited in favor of a Participant to
         the extent such Matching Contributions would not have been vested under
         SIP as of December 31, 2004, and such Matching Contributions that would
         vest after December 31, 2004 shall be credited as provided under the
         MetLife Leadership Deferred Compensation Plan and not under this Plan.

     2.  This Amendment will be effective immediately upon execution.

     3.  Except as otherwise expressly provided herein, the Plan (including any
amendments thereto) shall continue in full force and effect without amendment.

IN WITNESS WHEREOF, this amendment is approved.

PLAN ADMINISTRATOR

/s/ Margery Brittain
------------------------------------------------------

Date:     12/14/05
          ----------------------------

Witness:  /s/ Rose Alston
          ------------------------------------------------------

</EX-10.58>

<EX-10.65>
 24
 y87657exv10w65.htm
 EX-10.65

exv10w65 

Exhibit 10.65 

AMENDMENT NUMBER FIVE TO THE 
METLIFE LEADERSHIP DEFERRED COMPENSATION PLAN

(As amended and restated with respect to salary and Cash Incentive Compensation January 1, 
2005, and with respect to Stock Compensation April 15, 2005)

The MetLife Leadership Deferred Compensation Plan is hereby amended, effective January 1,
2011, as follows:

1. Section 8 is hereby amended to read as follows:

8. 
       
       Matching Contribution . If a Participant has a valid deferral election to make
contributions to SIP or the MetLife Bank 401(k) Plan throughout a calendar year, the
Participant s Matching Contribution Account shall be credited with the amount of Matching
Contribution (if any) with which the Participant s SIP or MetLife Bank 401(k) Plan account
would have been credited under the terms and provisions of such plan without application of
certain Tax Code limitations under Code sections 415 and 401(a)(17) with respect to
compensation deferred into this Plan. Notwithstanding the foregoing, no Matching
Contributions shall be credited in favor of a Participant during the suspension of such
Participant s deferrals pursuant to Section 4.7 of this Plan. A Participant s Matching
Contribution Account shall vest or be forfeited to the same extent, and on the same vesting
schedule, that such Matching Contributions would have vested or been forfeited under the terms
of SIP, notwithstanding any accelerated vesting under the SIP for individuals who transfer to
MetLife Bank.  

2. Section 22.11,  Eligible Associate , is hereby amended by adding new subsection (d) as follows:

(d) an individual to whom an offer of employment in compensation grades 120 through
123 has been made, who is selected by the Plan Administrator for eligibility and has
been so notified.  

3. Section 22.24,  Officer , is hereby amended to read as follows:

22.24.  
       
      Officer  shall mean each individual who is employed by a MetLife Company paid from
the United States in United States currency and whose compensation is in an officer or
officer-equivalent grades level, each as determined by the Plan Administrator in its
discretion. For eligibility to defer compensation, grade levels 32 and 120 through 123
are included in this definition.  

4. Section 22.29,  Qualifying Employee , subsection (a) is hereby amended to read as follows:

(a) classified in compensation grade 090, 112 through 119 or 152 through 161 and who
earned annual total cash compensation (without regard to benefitability under the
terms of SIP), for the twelve (12) months immediately preceding October 1 of the year
prior to the year subject to the Deferral Election or in such twelve (12) 

Amendment Number Five to The MetLife Leadership Deferred Compensation Plan

1 

month period otherwise designated by the Plan Administrator, in excess of the
compensation limit under Section 401(a)(17) of the Code (as indexed annually for
inflation) for the year the deferral election is filed;  

IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the Plan Administrator has caused this Amendment to be adopted this 16 th 
day
of December, 2010.

PLAN ADMINISTRATOR 

/s/ Andrew J. Bernstein

Andrew J. Bernstein 

ATTEST:

/s/ Candice Martin        

Amendment Number Five to The MetLife Leadership Deferred Compensation Plan

2 

</EX-10.65>

<EX-10.80>
 25
 y87657exv10w80.htm
 EX-10.80

exv10w80 

Exhibit 10.80 

AMENDMENT NUMBER FIVE TO THE

METLIFE AUXILIARY PENSION PLAN

(As amended and restated effective January 1, 2008)

The MetLife Auxiliary Pension Plan is hereby amended, effective January 1, 2010, as follows:

1. Part I, Article 4, Section 4.6, the first paragraph of subsection (b) shall be amended to read
as follows:

(b) 
       
      The annual variable incentive component ( AVIC ) of the Participant s Final Average
Compensation representing the MetLife Annual Variable Incentive Plan or successor annual cash
bonus plan or program shall have the same meaning given to this term under the Retirement
Plan. However, this component of Final Average Compensation will be determined using the
average of the Participant s highest 5 annual variable incentives (not necessarily
consecutive) with respect to the 10 annual variable incentives preceding such Participant s
date of Retirement or termination (including any projected payment(s) to be made beyond the
Participant s date of Retirement or termination calculated as provided immediately below).  

2. Part I, Article 4, Section 4.6, the second paragraph of subsection (b) through the end of
subsection (b) shall be amended to read as follows:

The AVIC, as set forth in subsection (b) immediately above, projected to be made beyond the
Participant s date of Retirement or termination will be deemed equal to the result of the following
calculation, as determined by the Plan Administrator in its sole discretion:

(i) 
       
     the highest of the last 3 annual variable incentives paid while the
Participant was in active Company service multiplied by 

(ii) 
       
     a fraction, the numerator of which is the number of months (or part thereof)
that the Participant was actively employed in the calendar year(s) for which the
annual variable incentive would be payable and the denominator of which is 12. 

(iii) 
       
     If the fraction determined under (ii) immediately above, is less than 1,
then, the fractional amount determined under (ii) shall replace an equivalent
fractional amount in the lowest of the 5 highest annual variable incentives used in
(b) above. This replacement shall occur only if the fractional amount determined under
(ii) is greater than the fractional amount it is replacing in the lowest of the 5
highest annual variable incentives. 

Notwithstanding (b)(i), (ii) and (iii), if a specific amount of annual variable incentive was
already approved under its respective plan, prior to the Participant s date of Retirement or

1 

termination, such amount shall be used instead of the deemed estimate, and such amount shall also
be taken into account in determining the highest of the Participant s last 3 annual variable
incentives with regard to any annual variable incentive payable for the Participant s year of
Retirement or termination.

If, at the time of Retirement or termination, fewer than 5 annual variable incentives have been
made to a Participant, then the annual variable incentive component of Final Average Compensation
shall be the average of all annual variable incentives actually made to the Participant and the
projected payment (described above) for the year of Retirement or termination.

For an eligible Participant who is a Commissioned Employee Final Average Compensation will be the
amount described in appropriate provisions of the Retirement Plan.

Notwithstanding any other provisions of this Section 4.6, Final Average Compensation that can be
taken into account to determine each Participant s benefit under this Plan cannot exceed $4.6
million. 

IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the Company has caused this Amendment to be adopted in its name and behalf
this  21 st  day of December, 2010, by its officer thereunto duly authorized.

METROPOLITAN LIFE INSURANCE COMPANY 

By:   
     /s/ Andrew J. Bernstein 

Andrew J. Bernstein, Plan Administrator  

ATTEST:

/s/ Candice Martin  

2 

</EX-10.80>

<EX-10.82>
 26
 y87657exv10w82.txt
 EX-10.82

EXHIBIT 10.82

AMENDMENT NUMBER TEN

           TO THE METLIFE PLAN FOR TRANSITION ASSISTANCE FOR OFFICERS
           ----------------------------------------------------------
The METLIFE PLAN FOR TRANSITION ASSISTANCE FOR OFFICERS (the "Plan") is hereby
amended as follows:

1.   The Plan is hereby amended by adding the following Section:

          "Section 10.2 2004-2005 State Street Sale. Notwithstanding the terms
          of Sections 1.4.05(b)(2) (part of "Discontinuation of Employment"),
          1.4.08 ("Discontinuance of Employment under the Provisions of the
          Company's Staffing Adjustment Policy"), 1.4.11 ("Job Elimination"),
          and 1.4.12 ("Job Elimination Participant") to the contrary, an
          Employee whose employment is discontinued as direct result of the sale
          of the equity or assets of SSRM Holdings, Inc. or its subsidiaries
          initiated in 2004 and consummated in 2005 (the "State Street Sale")
          and who thereafter begins employment in any capacity with Blackrock
          Financial Management, Inc. or any of its affiliates (each, a
          "2004-2005 State Street Sale Affected Employee"):

(a)  shall for all purposes other than those described in Section
                    10.2(b) of the Plan and otherwise as provided by applicable
                    plan or arrangement, be deemed to be a Job Elimination
                    Participant; and

               (b)  shall not be granted or eligible for Severance Pay or
                    Outplacement Assistance under the Plan."

2.   This amendment shall be effective as of August 25, 2004.

IN WITNESS WHEREOF, Metropolitan Life Insurance Company has caused this
amendment to be executed by an officer thereunto duly authorized on the date(s)
noted below the officer's signature.

METROPOLITAN LIFE INSURANCE COMPANY

By: /s/ James N. Heston
    ---------------------------
    James Heston
    Senior Vice President

Date: January 26, 2005
      ------------------

2

</EX-10.82>

<EX-10.83>
 27
 y87657exv10w83.txt
 EX-10.83

EXHIBIT 10.83

                           AMENDMENT NUMBER ELEVEN TO
                           --------------------------
             THE METLIFE PLAN FOR TRANSITION ASSISTANCE FOR OFFICERS
             -------------------------------------------------------

         The METLIFE PLAN FOR TRANSITION ASSISTANCE (the "Plan") is hereby
amended as follows:

         1. Section 4.2 of the Plan is hereby amended by replacing it in its
entirety with the following:

         SS. 4.2 PAYMENT OF SEVERANCE PAY: Payment of Severance Pay shall be
         made in a lump sum as soon as practicable following the legally
         effective date of the Separation Agreement; provided, however, that a
         Participant whose Date of Discontinuance of Employment is on or before
         December 31, 2006, and who was notified by the Participant's management
         in writing no later than June 30, 2006 that the Participant's Date of
         Discontinuance of Employment was anticipated to be no later than
         December 31, 2006, shall have the opportunity (in such form as
         determined by the Plan Administrator) to elect to receive Severance Pay
         in installments paid on or about the same dates and by similar means as
         the Company's or Subsidiary's payroll payments, commencing after the
         effective date of the Separation Agreement and ending on the next
         payroll date following the number of weeks of Equivalent Week's Salary
         to be paid to the Participant in Severance Pay following the
         Participant's Date of Discontinuance of Employment; provided further,
         that if the Participant has elected to receive Severance Pay in
         installments and the time over which installment payments of Severance
         Pay are to be made has expired prior to the effective date of the
         Separation Agreement, Severance Pay will be paid in a lump sum as soon
         as practicable following the effective date of the Separation
         Agreement; provided further, that if the Participant has elected to
         receive Severance Pay in installments and the time over which
         installment payments of Severance Pay are to be made would otherwise
         end later than March 15 of the calendar year following the Date of
         Discontinuance of Employment (the "Payment Deadline"), any Severance
         Pay remaining unpaid as of the Payment Deadline will be paid in a lump
         sum on the later of the Payment Deadline or the effective date of the
         Separation Agreement; provided further, that unless waived by the Plan
         Administrator in its sole and absolute discretion, a Participant's
         election shall be final and irrevocable. No interest on any delayed or
         installment payment of Severance Pay to the Participant shall be due.

         2. Section 1.4.11 of the Plan is hereby amended by replacing it in its
entirety with the following:

         SS. 1.4.11 JOB ELIMINATION: "Job Elimination" means the Company's or
         Subsidiary's determination that an Employee's position has been or will
         be eliminated because of a Company or Subsidiary staffing adjustment or
         other organizational change, expense reduction considerations, office
         closings or relocations (including but not limited to adjustments in
         the number of staff in a department or unit or the elimination of all
         or some of the functions of a department or unit), in which the
         Employee will not be replaced by another person in the same position,
         except where the Employee was, as of or immediately before the Date of
         Discontinuance of Employment, on a leave of absence or otherwise in
         inactive status for more than one year (i.e., does not return from
         leave or inactive status by the first anniversary of the beginning of
         the leave or inactive status)

and is not returning immediately upon the conclusion of either (a)
         leave under the Family and Medical Leave Act or other law providing
         legally-protected leave, or (b) leave granted by the Company or
         Subsidiary as a reasonable accommodation of medical limitations.

         3. Section 1.4.05(b) of the Plan is hereby amended by replacing each
reference to "Affiliate" with "MetLife Enterprise Affiliate."

         4. Section 4.4 of the Plan is hereby amended by replacing each
reference to "Affiliate" with "MetLife Enterprise Affiliate."

         5. Article 1 of the Plan is hereby amended by adding Section 1.4.22:

         SS. 1.4.22 METLIFE ENTERPRISE AFFILIATE: "MetLife Enterprise Affiliate"
         means MetLife, Inc., any Affiliate, or any "affiliate" of MetLife, Inc.
         as that terms is defined in Rule 12b-2 of the General Rules and
         Regulations of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended from
         time to time, including any corporation, partnership, joint venture,
         limited liability company, or other entity in which MetLife, Inc. owns,
         directly or indirectly, at least fifty percent (50%) of the total
         combined number of all securities entitling the holders thereof to vote
         in an annual election of directors of the company, or of the capital
         interests or profits interest of such partnership or entity.

         6. Section 1.4.16(c) of the Plan is hereby amended by replacing it in
its entirety with the following:

              (c) if the Employee's performance rating on the most recent annual
              performance review is "2," whose performance rating for the annual
              performance review immediately preceding the most recent annual
              review is no lower than "3;"

         7. Section 5.5 of the Plan is hereby amended by adding Section 5.5(c)
as follows:

              (c) Any person must exhaust the claims and review process
              described in this Section 5.5 of the Plan as a condition of
              bringing legal action under or related to the Plan. No claim for
              rights or benefits under the Plan, or otherwise arising under the
              Plan, will be valid if it is brought more than six (6) months
              after the end of the Plan Year in which that person's Date of
              Discontinuance occurred. No suit to recover benefits under this
              Plan shall be brought more than six months (6) months following
              the exhaustion of the claims and review process described in this
              Plan.

         8. Section 1.4.05(b)(4) is hereby amended by replacing the reference to
"Subsidiary" with "MetLife Enterprise Affiliate."

         9. Section 1.4.21 is hereby amended by deleting Sections 1.4.21(b)
"MetLife Securities, Inc.," 1.4.21(c) "MetLife Trust Company, N.A.," and
1.4.21(d) "Edison Supply and Distribution, Inc.," in their respective
entireties, and relettering the resulting parts of Section 1.4.21 accordingly.

         10. Section 1.4.19 is hereby amended by replacing each reference to
"the Other Information" section of the MetLife Options Plus Summary Plan
Description Book" and each reference to "the MetLife Options Plus

Summary Plan Description Book" and each reference to "the Company's Continuous
Service Date Policy" with "the Summary Plan Description of the Metropolitan Life
Retirement Plan for United States Employees."

         11. Section 1.4.09(c)(1) of the Plan is hereby amended by replacing it
in its entirety with the following:

              "(1) an officer of the Company, MetLife Group, Inc., Metropolitan
              Property and Casualty Insurance Company, or MetLife Bank, National
              Association;"

         12. Section 1.4.09(c) of the Plan is hereby amended by deleting Section
1.4.09(c)(2) "an employee of MetLife Trust Company, N.A. holding the title of
President or Senior Vice President;" and relettering the resulting parts of
Section 1.4.09(c) accordingly.

         13. This amendment shall be effective with regard to Participants with
a Date of Discontinuance of Employment on or after March 2, 2006, but will not
apply to any Participant whose Separation Agreement became final prior to
January 1, 2006.

IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the Company has caused this amendment to be executed by an
officer thereunto duly authorized on the date noted below the officer's
signature.

METROPOLITAN LIFE INSURANCE COMPANY
-----------------------------------

By /s/ Debra Capolarello
   ----------------------------------------

Date: 2-28-06
      -------------------------------------

/s/ Judith N. Eidenberg
------------------------------------------
Witness

</EX-10.83>

<EX-10.96>
 28
 y87657exv10w96.htm
 EX-10.96

exv10w96 

Exhibit 10.96 

AMENDMENT NUMBER ONE TO  
  THE METLIFE PLAN FOR TRANSITION ASSISTANCE FOR OFFICERS  

( Amended and Restated Effective January 1, 2010 )

THE METLIFE PLAN FOR TRANSITION ASSISTANCE FOR OFFICERS (the  Plan ) is hereby amended as
follows:

Section 1.4.05 of the Plan is hereby amended, by way of clarification, by adding the
following phrase at the end of subsection (b)(4) thereof to read as follows:

or is eligible under any other severance plan maintained or sponsored by the Company, a
Subsidiary or a MetLife Enterprise Affiliate 

IN WITNESS WHEREOF, Metropolitan Life Insurance Company has caused this amendment to be
executed by an officer thereunto duly authorized on the date noted below the officer s signature.

METROPOLITAN LIFE INSURANCE COMPANY 

By:

/s/ Lynne E. DiStasio 

Name/Title:

Lynne E. DiStasio, VP 

Date:

December 15, 2010 

Witness:

/s/ Lucida Plummer 

</EX-10.96>

<EX-10.97>
 29
 y87657exv10w97.txt
 EX-10.97

Exhibit 10.97

                                                                [Execution Copy]

ONE MADISON AVENUE

                                  PURCHASE AND

                                 SALE AGREEMENT

                                     BETWEEN

METROPOLITAN LIFE INSURANCE COMPANY,

                             a New York corporation,

                                   AS SELLER,

                                       AND

                             1 MADISON VENTURE LLC,

                      a Delaware limited liability company,

                                       AND

                             COLUMN FINANCIAL, INC.

                             a Delaware corporation,

                            COLLECTIVELY AS PURCHASER

As of March 29, 2005

TABLE OF CONTENTS

                                                                          Page #

ARTICLE I PURCHASE AND SALE

      Section 1.1    Agreement of Purchase and Sale ....................       1

      Section 1.2    Property Defined ..................................       2

      Section 1.3.   Purchase Price ....................................       2

      Section 1.4    Payment of Purchase Price .........................       2

      Section 1.5    Deposit ...........................................       3

      Section 1.6    Escrow Agent ......................................       3

ARTICLE  II TITLE AND SURVEY

      Section 2.1    Title Inspection Period ...........................       4

      Section 2.2    Pre-Closing .......................................       4

      Section 2.3    Permitted Exceptions ..............................       4

      Section 2.4    Violations ........................................       6

      Section 2.5    Conveyance of Title ...............................       6

ARTICLE III REVIEW OF PROPERTY

      Section 3.1    Right of Inspection ...............................       6

      Section 3.2    Property Reports ..................................       7

ARTICLE IV  CLOSING

      Section 4.1    Time and Place ....................................       7

      Section 4.2    Seller's Obligations at Closing ...................       8

      Section 4.3    Purchaser's Obligations at Closing ................      10

      Section 4.4    Credits and Prorations ............................      11

      Section 4.5    Transaction Taxes and Closing Costs ...............      14

Section 4.6    Conditions Precedent to Obligations of Purchaser ..      15

      Section 4.7    Conditions Precedent to Obligations of Seller .....      15

ARTICLE V  REPRESENTATIONS, WARRANTIES AND COVENANTS

      Section 5.1    Representations and Warranties of Seller ..........      16

      Section 5.2    Knowledge Defined .................................      17

      Section 5.3    Modifications of Seller's Representations and
                       Warranties ......................................      17

      Section 5.4    Survival of Seller's Representations and
                       Warranties ......................................      18

      Section 5.5    Covenants of Seller ...............................      18

      Section 5.6    Representations and Warranties of Purchaser .......      19

      Section 5.7    Survival of Purchaser's Representations and
                       Warranties ......................................      20

ARTICLE VI  DEFAULT

      Section 6.1    Default by Purchaser ..............................      20

      Section 6.2    Default by Seller .................................      20

      Section 6.3    Recoverable Damages ...............................      21

ARTICLE VII  RISK OF LOSS

      Section 7.1    Minor Damage or Condemnation ......................      21

      Section 7.2    Major Damage ......................................      21

      Section 7.3    Definition of "Major" Loss or Damage ..............      21

      Section 7.4    General Obligations Law ...........................      21

ARTICLE VIII  COMMISSIONS

      Section 8.1    Brokerage Commissions .............................      22

ARTICLE IX  DISCLAIMERS AND WAIVERS

      Section 9.1    No Reliance on Documents ..........................      22

      Section 9.2    AS-IS SALE; DISCLAIMERS ...........................      22

      Section 9.3    Survival of Disclaimers ...........................      24

ARTICLE X  MISCELLANEOUS

      Section 10.1   Confidentiality ..................................      24

      Section 10.2   Public Disclosure ................................      25

      Section 10.3   Assignment .......................................      25

      Section 10.4   Notices ..........................................      26

      Section 10.5   Modifications ....................................      27

      Section 10.6   Entire Agreement .................................      27

      Section 10.7   Further Assurances ...............................      27

      Section 10.8   Counterparts .....................................      27

      Section 10.9   Facsimile Signatures .............................      27

      Section 10.10  Severability .....................................      27

      Section 10.11  Applicable Law ...................................      28

      Section 10.12  No Third-Party Beneficiary .......................      28

      Section 10.13  Captions .........................................      28

      Section 10.14  Construction .....................................      28

      Section 10.15  Recordation ......................................      28

      Section 10.16  Audit Rights and Tenant Reconciliation
                       Statements .....................................      28

      Section 10.17  Termination of Agreement .........................      29

      Section 10.18  1031 Exchange ....................................      29

      Section 10.19  One Madison Avenue Address .......................      29

      Section 10.20  MetLife Lease ....................................      29

      Section 10.21  Industrial and Commercial Incentive Program ......      30

Section 10.22  Transfer Fee .....................................      30

      Section 10.23  Joint and Several Liability ......................      32

PURCHASE AND SALE AGREEMENT

This PURCHASE AND SALE AGREEMENT (this "Agreement") is made as of
March 29, 2005 (the "Effective Date"), by and between METROPOLITAN LIFE
INSURANCE COMPANY, a New York corporation ("Seller") and 1 MADISON VENTURE LLC,
a Delaware limited liability company and COLUMN FINANCIAL, INC, a Delaware
corporation (collectively, "Purchaser").

W I T N E S S E T H:

ARTICLE I

                                PURCHASE AND SALE

     Section 1.1 Agreement of Purchase and Sale. Subject to the terms and
conditions hereinafter set forth, Seller agrees to sell and convey to Purchaser,
and Purchaser agrees to purchase from Seller, the following:

     (a) the condominium units (the "Units") designated and described by the
unit numbers listed on Exhibit A attached hereto and made a part hereof together
with the appurtenant percentage interest of Seller in the common elements in the
building (the "Building") known as One Madison Avenue Condominium (the
"Condominium") and by the street address One Madison Avenue, Borough of
Manhattan, City, County and State of New York, which Units are described in the
declaration (the "Declaration") establishing under Article 9-B of the Real
Property Law of the State of New York a plan for condominium ownership of the
Building and the land more particularly described on Exhibit B attached hereto
and made a part hereof upon which the Building is located (the "Land"), which
Declaration is dated as of December 28, 2001 and was recorded in the Office of
the Register of the City of New York, New York County (the "Register's Office")
on December 31, 2001, in Reel 3418, Page 0945, as amended by Amendment to
Declaration dated as of December 17, 2003 and recorded in the Register's Office
on February 25, 2005 under CRFN 2005000115754, together with the undivided
percentage interests in the Common Elements (as such term is defined in the
Declaration, such definition being incorporated herein by reference) and any
easements appurtenant to the Units as set forth in the Declaration. The Units
are designated by the tax lot numbers listed on Exhibit A hereto on the Tax Map
of the Real Property Assessment Department of the City of New York, Borough of
Manhattan, and on the floor plans of the Building certified by HLW International
LLP, as Condominium Plan Number 1223 filed in the Register's Office on December
31, 2001; the Building consists of two interconnected buildings: (i) a
two-basement and fifteen-story structure, including two mechanical floors (the
"South Building") and (ii) a two-basement and fifty-story structure (the
"Tower")

     (b) any and all of Seller's right, title and interest in and to all
tangible personal property (excluding cash, any software, any of the Wyeth or
other paintings, sculptures or any other

"Works of Art" (as such term is defined in the Net Lease, which Net Lease is
more particularly described in Section 1.1 (c) below, and also excluding any
furniture or other personal property existing on the second floor of the Tower
and the Liebert UPS device located on the 38th floor of the Tower) if any,
located at the Land and Building (the Land and Building are sometimes herein
collectively referred to as the "Physical Property"), and used exclusively in
connection with the operation of any portion of the Physical Property (the
property described in clause (b) of this Section 1.1 being herein referred to
collectively as the "Personal Property"). So that there is no misunderstanding,
it is understood and agreed between the parties that the Wyeth paintings listed
on Exhibit R, attached hereto and made a part hereof, are included within Works
of Art, are not included in the Personal Property, are not for sale, and shall
remain the property of Seller;

     (c) any and all of Seller's right, title and interest in and to that
certain Amended and Restated Lease dated as of December 17, 2003, between
Metropolitan Life Insurance Company, as Landlord, and Credit Suisse First Boston
(USA), Inc., as tenant, which amended and restated in its entirety that certain
Lease between Metropolitan Life Insurance Company, as landlord, and Credit
Suisse First Boston (USA), Inc., as tenant (the "Tenant") dated as of February
22, 2001, covering those Units listed in Exhibit A-1 attached hereto and made a
part hereof (the "Net Lease) and any other leases, licenses and occupancy
agreements and amendments thereof covering all or any portion of the Units, to
the extent they are in effect on the date of the Closing (as such term is
defined in Section 4.1 hereof) (the property described in clause (c) of this
Section 1.1 being herein referred to collectively as the "Leases"), together
with all rents, reimbursements of real estate taxes and operating expenses, and
other sums due thereunder (the "Rents") and any and all security deposits in
Seller's possession in connection therewith (the "Security Deposits"); and

     (d) any and all of Seller's right, title and interest in and to (i) all
assignable contracts and agreements and the Revocable Consents (as such term is
hereinafter defined; collectively, the "Operating Agreements") listed and
described on Exhibit C attached hereto and made a part hereof, relating to the
upkeep, repair, maintenance or operation of the Units or the Personal Property,
and (ii) all assignable existing warranties and guaranties (express or implied)
issued to Seller in connection with the Real Property (as hereinafter defined)
or the Personal Property to the extent not assigned to the Tenant under the Net
Lease, and (iii) all assignable existing permits, licenses, approvals and
authorizations issued by any governmental authority in connection with the
Property (as hereinafter defined) (the property described in clause (d) of this
Section 1.1 being sometimes herein referred to collectively as the
"Intangibles").

     Section 1.2 Property Defined. The Seller's right, title and interest in and
to the Units and appurtenant common elements is hereinafter sometimes referred
to collectively as the "Real Property." The Real Property, the Personal
Property, the Rents, the Security Deposits, the Leases and the Intangibles are
hereinafter sometimes referred to collectively as the "Property."

     Section 1.3 Purchase Price. Seller is to sell and Purchaser is to purchase
the Property for the amount of NINE HUNDRED EIGHTEEN MILLION DOLLARS
($918,000,000) (the "Purchase Price").

     Section 1.4 Payment of Purchase Price. The Purchase Price, as increased or
decreased by prorations and adjustments as herein provided, shall be payable in
full at Closing in

                                        2

cash by wire transfer of immediately available funds to the bank account or
accounts designated by Seller in writing to Purchaser prior to the Closing.

     Section 1.5 Deposit. Simultaneously with Purchaser's delivery of this
Agreement, Purchaser shall deposit the Deposit (as hereinafter defined) in
escrow with JP Morgan Chase Bank, N.A. (the "Escrow Agent"), having its office
at New York Escrow Services, 4 New York Plaza, 21st Floor, New York, New York
10004 (ABA No: 021-000-021; Account Number: 507955013), the sum of Sixty Million
Dollars ($60,000,000) (the "Deposit") in good funds, either by certified bank or
cashier's check or by federal wire transfer. The Escrow Agent shall hold the
Deposit in an interest-bearing account reasonably acceptable to Seller and
Purchaser, in accordance with the terms and conditions of this Agreement. All
interest earned on the Deposit shall become a part of the Deposit and shall be
deemed income of Purchaser, and Purchaser shall be responsible for the payment
of all costs and fees imposed on the Deposit account. The terms of the
immediately preceding sentence shall survive Closing and any termination of this
Agreement. The Deposit shall be distributed in accordance with the terms of this
Agreement. The failure of Purchaser to timely deliver any Deposit hereunder
shall be a material default, and shall entitle Seller, at Seller's sole option,
to terminate this Agreement immediately.

     Section 1.6 Escrow Agent.

          Escrow Agent shall hold and dispose of the Deposit in accordance with
the terms of this Agreement. Seller and Purchaser agree that the duties of the
Escrow Agent hereunder are purely ministerial in nature and shall be expressly
limited to the safekeeping and disposition of the Deposit in accordance with
this Agreement. Escrow Agent shall incur no liability in connection with the
safekeeping or disposition of the Deposit for any reason other than Escrow
Agent's willful misconduct or gross negligence. In the event that Escrow Agent
shall be in doubt as to its duties or obligations with regard to the Deposit, or
in the event that Escrow Agent receives conflicting instructions from Purchaser
and Seller with respect to the Deposit, Escrow Agent shall not disburse the
Deposit and shall, at its option, continue to hold the Deposit until both
Purchaser and Seller agree in writing as to its disposition or until a final
judgment is entered by a court of competent jurisdiction directing its
disposition, or Escrow Agent shall interplead the Deposit in accordance with the
laws of the state in which the Property is located.

          Escrow Agent shall not be responsible for any interest on the Deposit
except as is actually earned, or for the loss of any interest resulting from the
withdrawal of the Deposit prior to the date interest is posted thereon or for
any loss caused by the failure, suspension, bankruptcy or dissolution of the
institution in which the Deposit is deposited.

          Escrow Agent shall execute this Agreement solely for the purpose of
being bound by the provisions of Sections 1.5 and 1.6 hereof.

                                       3

ARTICLE II

                                TITLE AND SURVEY

     Section 2.1 Title Inspection Period. Purchaser acknowledges and agrees that
(a) Seller has furnished to Purchaser prior to the Effective Date: (i) a current
preliminary title report dated December 18, 2004 (the "Title Commitment"),
issued by Chicago Title Insurance Company on the Real Property, accompanied by
copies of all documents referred to in the report; (ii) a copy of the land title
survey ("the "Survey") prepared by Link Land Surveyors, P.C. dated March 9,
2005, and (iii) copies of the most recent property tax bills for the Property;
(b) Purchaser has had an opportunity, prior to the Effective Date, to order its
own title report and survey for the Physical Property; and (c) any and all
matters (the "Existing Title, Tax and Survey Matters") referred to, reflected in
or disclosed by, the materials referred to in the preceding sub-paragraphs (a)
(i) through (iii), inclusive, have been agreed to and accepted by Purchaser
(including but not limited to, any and all exceptions of title set forth in
Schedule B of the Title Commitment) and that, as of the Effective Date,
Purchaser has approved the Existing Title, Tax and Survey Matters and the
condition of title to the Real Property.

     Section 2.2 Pre-Closing "Gap" Title Defects. Purchaser may, after the
Effective Date but prior to the Closing, notify Seller in writing (the "Gap
Notice") of any objections to title (a) raised by the Title Company (as defined
in Section 2.5 hereof) between the Effective Date and the Closing and (b) not
disclosed by the Title Company or otherwise disclosed in writing to Purchaser
prior to the Effective Date; provided that Purchaser must notify Seller of such
objection to title within two (2) business days of being made aware of the
existence of such exception. If Purchaser issues a Gap Notice to Seller, Seller
shall have five (5) business days after receipt of the Gap Notice to notify
Purchaser (a) that Seller will remove such objectionable exceptions from title
on or before the Closing; provided that Seller may extend the Closing for such
period as shall be required to effect such cure, but not beyond thirty (30)
days; or (b) that Seller elects not to cause such exceptions to be removed. The
procurement by Seller of a commitment for the issuance of the Title Policy (as
defined in Section 2.5 hereof) or an endorsement thereto (in form and substance
reasonably acceptable to Purchaser) insuring Purchaser against any title
exception which was disapproved pursuant to this Section 2.2 shall be deemed a
cure by Seller of such disapproval. If Seller gives Purchaser notice under
clause (b) above, Purchaser shall have five (5) business days in which to notify
Seller that Purchaser will nevertheless proceed with the purchase and take title
to the Property subject to such exceptions, or that Purchaser will terminate
this Agreement. If this Agreement is terminated pursuant to the foregoing
provisions of this paragraph, then neither party shall have any further rights
or obligations hereunder (except for any indemnity obligations of either party
pursuant to the other provisions of this Agreement), the Deposit shall be
returned to Purchaser and each party shall bear its own costs incurred
hereunder. If Purchaser shall fail to notify Seller of its election within said
five-day period, Purchaser shall be deemed to have elected to proceed with the
purchase and take title to the Property subject to such exceptions.

     Section 2.3 Permitted Exceptions. The Property shall be conveyed subject to
the following matters, which are hereinafter referred to as the "Permitted
Exceptions":

     (a) all liens, encumbrances, easements, covenants, conditions and
restrictions, including any matters shown on any subdivision or parcel map
affecting the Property which are set

                                       4

forth in the Title Commitment and not set forth in the Gap Notice or if set
forth in the Gap Notice, (x) are those which Seller has elected not to remove or
cure, or has been unable to remove or cure, and (y) subject to which Purchaser
has elected to accept the conveyance of the Property;

     (b) those matters that either are not objected to in writing within the
time periods provided in Section 2.2 hereof, or if objected to in writing by
Purchaser, are those which Seller has elected not to remove or cure, or has been
unable to remove or cure, and subject to which Purchaser has elected or is
deemed to have elected to accept the conveyance of the Property;

     (c) the rights of tenants under the Leases;

     (d) the lien of all ad valorem real estate taxes and assessments not yet
due and payable as of the date of Closing, subject to adjustment as herein
provided;

     (e) local, state and federal laws, ordinances or governmental regulations,
including but not limited to, building and zoning laws, ordinances and
regulations, now or hereafter in effect relating to the Property;

     (f) items shown on the Survey;

     (g) the Declaration and the By-Laws of the Condominium;

     (h) those certain revocable consent agreements granted by the City of New
York related to the bridge and tunnel connecting the Physical Property with a
building on that certain property known as Eleven Madison Avenue, New York, New
York, which revocable consent agreement was executed by Seller on September 19,
1995 (bridge), and was executed by Seller on June 18, 2001 (tunnel) (the
"Revocable Consents");

     (i) The existing designation of the Tower as a New York City Landmark by
the New York City Landmarks Preservation Commission; the existing listing of the
Tower in the National Register of Historic Places and as a National Historic
Landmark by the National Park Service, Department of the Interior; and the
existing listing of the Tower in the New York State Register of Historic Places
by the New York State Historic Preservation Officer, Office of Parks,
Recreation, and Historic Preservation; and all legal requirements of any public
authorities in connection with such designations and listings.

     (j) the occupancy of the South Building pursuant to a temporary certificate
of occupancy, as the tenant under the Net Lease (the "Tenant") is obligated to
obtain a permanent certificate of occupancy for such building;

     (k) all matters which would be revealed or disclosed by a physical
inspection of the Physical Property on the Effective Date;

     (l) the license agreement between Seller and Tenant pursuant to which the
Wyeth Paintings shall remain in the Building after the Closing. (Purchaser
acknowledges and agrees that Seller shall retain ownership of the Wyeth
Paintings and that Seller shall have the right, as set forth in such license
agreement, upon ninety (90) days notice, to remove the Wyeth Paintings

                                       5

from the Physical Property and Purchaser shall cooperate with Seller in
connection with any such removal). The rights of Seller under this subdivision
(l), including the right to remove the Wyeth Paintings with the cooperation of
Purchaser, shall survive the Closing and the transfer of the Property to
Purchaser; and

     (m) Seller has claimed federal rehabilitation tax credits for the Tower for
a rehabilitation project that ended on March 31, 2003, and all of such credits
are personal to Seller and are not being transferred to Purchaser.

     Section 2.4 Violations. Purchaser shall accept title to the Property
subject to any note or notices of violations of Law or municipal ordinances,
orders or requirements noted or issued by any governmental department having
jurisdiction over the Property, against or affecting the Property, or relating
to conditions thereat at the date hereof or the Closing.

     Section 2.5 Conveyance of Title. At Closing, Seller shall convey and
transfer to Purchaser all of the estate and rights of Seller in and to the
Units, by execution and delivery of the Deed (as defined in Section 4.2(a)
hereof). If at the Closing there shall be any liens, encumbrances or charges
affecting title which are not permitted pursuant to this Agreement, Seller may,
at Seller's option upon request from Seller to Purchaser, require Purchaser to
apply such portion of the Purchase Price as shall be necessary to discharge such
liens, encumbrances and charges and pay the recording fees for the same, and in
such event, Seller shall deliver to Purchaser instruments in recordable form
sufficient to discharge the same of record. Evidence of delivery of title in
accordance with the terms of this Section 2.5 shall be the issuance by Chicago
Title Insurance Company, or another national title company (the "Title
Company"), of a 1992 ALTA Owner's Policy of Title Insurance (the "Title Policy")
covering the Real Property, in the full amount of the Purchase Price, subject
only to the Permitted Exceptions.

                                   ARTICLE III

                               REVIEW OF PROPERTY

     Section 3.1 Right of Inspection. Purchaser acknowledges and agrees that it
has had an opportunity prior to the Effective Date to make any and all physical,
environmental and other inspections of the Physical Property as Purchaser has
deemed necessary and/or appropriate in connection with the transaction
contemplated by this Agreement, and that Purchaser has agreed, subject to the
provisions of Section 2.2 and Article VII hereof, to accept the Physical
Property at the Closing in the condition that exists on the Effective Date,
reasonable wear and tear excepted. Purchaser further acknowledges and agrees
that it has prior to the Effective Date had the opportunity to examine at the
Physical Property (or the property manager's office, as the case may be)
documents and files located at the Physical Property or the property manager's
office concerning the leasing, maintenance and operation of the Physical
Property (including without limitation, copies of permits, licenses,
certificates of occupancy, plans and specifications, and insurance certificates
related to the Physical Property, to the extent in Seller's or the property
manager's possession), but excluding Seller's partnership or corporate records,
internal memoranda, financial projections, budgets, appraisals, accounting and
tax records and similar proprietary, confidential or privileged information
(collectively, the "Confidential Documents").

                                       6

It is further agreed by the parties hereto that in no event shall Purchaser
provide any governmental entity or agency with information concerning the
environmental condition of the Physical Property without first obtaining
Seller's prior written consent thereto, which Seller shall provide in the event
that Purchaser is required by applicable law to provide such information to a
governmental agency or entity.

     Purchaser agrees to protect, indemnify, defend and hold Seller harmless
from and against any claim for liabilities, losses, costs, expenses (including
reasonable attorneys' fees), damages or injuries arising out of or resulting
from the inspection of the Property at any time by Purchaser, its agents,
employees, representatives or consultants or any act or omission by Purchaser or
its agents, employees or consultants, and notwithstanding anything to the
contrary in this Agreement, such obligation to indemnify and hold harmless
Seller shall survive Closing or any termination of this Agreement.

     Section 3.2 Property Reports. PURCHASER ACKNOWLEDGES THAT PRIOR TO THE
EFFECTIVE DATE (1) PURCHASER HAS RECEIVED COPIES OF THE ENVIRONMENTAL AND OTHER
REPORTS LISTED ON EXHIBIT D ATTACHED HERETO (COLLECTIVELY, THE "PROPERTY
REPORTS"), AND HAS HAD MADE AVAILABLE TO IT BY SELLER OTHER PROPERTY REPORTS IN
SELLER'S POSSESSION, (2) IF SELLER DELIVERS ANY ADDITIONAL ENVIRONMENTAL REPORTS
TO PURCHASER, PURCHASER WILL ACKNOWLEDGE IN WRITING THAT IT HAS RECEIVED SUCH
REPORTS PROMPTLY UPON RECEIPT THEREOF, AND (3) ANY PROPERTY REPORTS DELIVERED OR
TO BE DELIVERED BY SELLER OR ITS AGENTS OR CONSULTANTS TO PURCHASER ARE BEING
MADE AVAILABLE SOLELY AS AN ACCOMMODATION TO PURCHASER AND MAY NOT BE RELIED
UPON BY PURCHASER IN CONNECTION WITH THE PURCHASE OF THE PROPERTY. PURCHASER
AGREES THAT SELLER SHALL HAVE NO LIABILITY OR OBLIGATION WHATSOEVER FOR ANY
INACCURACY IN OR OMISSION FROM ANY PROPERTY REPORT. PURCHASER ACKNOWLEDGES AND
AGREES THAT IT HAS PRIOR TO THE EFFECTIVE DATE CONDUCTED ITS OWN INVESTIGATION
OF THE ENVIRONMENTAL, STRUCTURAL, ARCHITECTURAL, MECHANICAL AND PHYSICAL
CONDITION OF THE PHYSICAL PROPERTY TO THE EXTENT PURCHASER DEEMED SUCH AN
INVESTIGATION TO BE NECESSARY OR APPROPRIATE AND PURCHASER HAS APPROVED OF THE
PHYSICAL AND ENVIRONMENTAL CONDITION OF THE PHYSICAL PROPERTY AS OF THE
EFFECTIVE DATE. THE PROVISIONS OF THIS SECTION SHALL SURVIVE THE CLOSING OR
OTHER TERMINATION OF THIS AGREEMENT.

     Section 3.3 Intentionally Omitted

ARTICLE IV

                                     CLOSING

     Section 4.1 Time and Place. The consummation of the transaction
contemplated hereby (the "Closing") shall be held at 10:00 AM on April 29, 2005
at the offices of Seller, or as mutually agreed between the parties, subject to
Seller's option as hereinafter described. Purchaser

                                       7

acknowledges that it is a material condition to the obligations of Purchaser
under this Agreement that the Closing occur not later than April 29, 2005.
Purchaser agrees that, subject to the second paragraph of Section 3.3 and
Article 2 hereof, it shall not be entitled to any adjournment of the Closing
beyond April 29, 2005, time being of the essence as to the performance of
Purchaser's obligations hereunder by such date. At the Closing, Seller and
Purchaser shall perform the obligations set forth in, respectively, Section 4.2
and Section 4.3 hereof, the performance of which obligations shall be concurrent
conditions; provided that the Deed shall not be recorded until Seller receives
confirmation that Seller has received the full amount of the Purchase Price,
adjusted by prorations as set forth herein. At Seller's option, the Closing
shall be consummated through an escrow administered by Escrow Agent pursuant to
additional escrow instructions that are consistent with this Agreement. In such
event, the Purchase Price and all documents shall be deposited with the Escrow
Agent as escrowee.

     Section 4.2 Seller's Obligations at Closing. At Closing, Seller shall:

     (a) deliver to Purchaser a duly executed bargain and sale deed without
covenant against grantor's acts (the "Deed"), in proper statutory short form for
recording, and shall contain the covenant required by Section 13 of the New York
Lien Law, in the form attached hereto as Exhibit E conveying the Units, together
with the undivided percentage interests in the common elements of the
Condominium, and any easements appurtenant to the Units as set forth in the
Declaration, subject only to the Permitted Exceptions. At Seller's option, and
for convenience, Seller may omit from the Deed the recital of any or all of the
"subject to" clauses herein contained and/or any other title exceptions, defects
or objections which have been waived by Purchaser in accordance with the terms
of this Agreement, or consented to in writing by Purchaser, but the same shall
nevertheless survive delivery of the Deed. The terms of the immediately
preceding sentence shall survive the Closing;

     (b) deliver to Purchaser a duly executed bill of sale (the "Bill of Sale")
conveying the Personal Property, if any, without warranty of title or use and
without warranty, express or implied, as to merchantability and fitness for any
purpose and in the form attached hereto as Exhibit F;

     (c) assign to Purchaser, and Purchaser shall assume, the landlord/lessor
interest in and to the Leases, Rents and Security Deposits, and any and all
obligations to pay leasing commissions and finder's fees with respect to the
Leases and amendments, renewals and expansions thereof, to the extent provided
in Section 4.4(b)(v) hereof, by duly executed assignment and assumption
agreement (the "Assignment of Leases") in the form attached hereto as Exhibit G
pursuant to which (i) Seller shall indemnify Purchaser and hold Purchaser
harmless from and against any and all claims pertaining thereto arising prior to
Closing and (ii) Purchaser shall indemnify Seller and hold Seller harmless from
and against any and all claims pertaining thereto arising from and after the
Closing, including without limitation, claims made by tenants with respect to
tenants' Security Deposits to the extent paid, credited or assigned to
Purchaser. In no event shall the Assignment of Leases assign any right, title or
interest of Seller in and to the Works of Art or the right to display such Works
of Art, and the Assignment of Leases shall exclude any rights of Seller which
the Net Lease expressly provides are personal to Seller;

                                       8

(d) to the extent assignable, assign to Purchaser, and Purchaser shall
assume, Seller's interest in the Operating Agreements and the other Intangibles
by duly executed assignment and assumption agreement (the "Assignment of
Contracts") in the form attached hereto as Exhibit H pursuant to which (i)
Seller shall indemnify Purchaser and hold Purchaser harmless from and against
any and all claims pertaining thereto arising prior to Closing and (ii)
Purchaser shall indemnify Seller and hold Seller harmless from and against any
and all claims pertaining thereto arising from and after the Closing;

     (e) join with Purchaser to execute a notice (the "Tenant Notice") in the
form attached hereto as Exhibit I, which Purchaser shall send to each tenant
under each of the Leases promptly after the Closing, informing such tenant of
the sale of the Property and of the assignment to Purchaser of Seller's interest
in, and obligations under, the Leases (including, if applicable, any Security
Deposits), and directing that all Rent and other sums payable after the Closing
under each such Lease be paid as set forth in the Tenant Notice and join with
Purchaser to execute a notice (the "NYC Notice") in the form attached hereto as
Exhibit I-1, which Seller shall send to the City of New York, Department of
Transportation (the "NYCDOT") promptly after the Closing, informing the NYCDOT
of the sale of the Property and of the assignment to Purchaser of Seller's
interest in, and obligations under, the Revocable Consents, including the
security fund deposited thereunder) and requesting that the NYCDOT consent to
such assignment or alternatively, issue new Revocable Consents to the Purchaser;

     (f) In the event that any representation or warranty of Seller made herein
needs to be modified due to changes since the Effective Date, deliver to
Purchaser a certificate, dated as of the date of Closing and executed on behalf
of Seller by a duly authorized officer thereof, identifying any representation
or warranty which is not, or no longer is, true and correct and explaining the
state of facts giving rise to the change. In no event shall Seller be liable to
Purchaser for, or be deemed to be in default hereunder by reason of, any breach
of representation or warranty which results from any change that (i) occurs
between the Effective Date and the date of Closing and is expressly permitted
under the terms of this Agreement, or (ii) occurs between the Effective Date and
the date of the Closing and is beyond the reasonable control of Seller to
prevent; provided, however, that the occurrence of a change which is not
permitted hereunder or is beyond the reasonable control of Seller to prevent
shall, if materially adverse to Purchaser, constitute the non-fulfillment of the
condition set forth in Section 4.6(b) hereof; if, despite changes or other
matters described in such certificate, the Closing occurs, Seller's
representations and warranties set forth in this Agreement shall be deemed to
have been modified by all statements made in such certificate;

     (g) deliver to Purchaser such evidence as the Title Company may reasonably
require as to the authority of the person or persons executing documents on
behalf of Seller;

     (h) deliver to Purchaser a certificate in the form attached hereto as
Exhibit J duly executed by Seller stating that Seller is not a "foreign person"
as defined in the Federal Foreign Investment in Real Property Tax Act of 1980;

     (i) deliver to Purchaser originals (to the extent originals are in Seller's
possession, or photocopies if originals are not in Seller's possession) of the
Leases and the Operating Agreements, together with such leasing and property
files and records located at the

                                       9

Property or the property manager's office which are material in connection with
the continued operation, leasing and maintenance of the Property, but excluding
any Confidential Documents;

     (j) deliver such affidavits as may be customarily and reasonably required
by the Title Company, in a form reasonably acceptable to Seller;

     (k) deliver to Purchaser possession and occupancy of the Property, subject
to the Permitted Exceptions;

     (l) execute a closing statement acceptable to Seller;

     (m) deliver to Purchaser the Board Resignation Letters (as hereinafter
defined); and

     (n) deliver such additional documents as shall be reasonably required to
consummate the transaction contemplated by this Agreement.

     Section 4.3 Purchaser's Obligations at Closing. At Closing, Purchaser
shall:

     (a) pay to Seller the full amount of the Purchase Price (which amount shall
be paid by Escrow Agent releasing the Deposit to Seller and Purchaser paying the
balance of the Purchase Price to Seller), as increased or decreased by
prorations and adjustments as herein provided, in immediately available wire
transferred funds pursuant to Section 1.4 hereof;

     (b) join Seller in execution of the Assignment of Leases, Assignment of
Contracts, Tenant Notices and NYC Notice;

     (c) In the event that any representation or warranty of Purchaser set forth
in herein needs to be modified due to changes since the Effective Date, deliver
to Seller a certificate, dated as of the date of Closing and executed on behalf
of Purchaser by a duly authorized representative thereof, identifying any such
representation or warranty which is not, or no longer is, true and correct and
explaining the state of facts giving rise to the change. In no event shall
Purchaser be liable to Seller for, or be deemed to be in default hereunder by
reason of, any breach of representation or warranty set forth in Sections 5.6
(a) or (b) hereof which results from any change that (i) occurs between the
Effective Date and the date of Closing and is expressly permitted under the
terms of this Agreement, or (ii) occurs between the Effective Date and the date
of the Closing and is beyond the reasonable control of Purchaser to prevent;
provided, however, that the occurrence of a change which is not permitted
hereunder or is beyond the reasonable control of Purchaser to prevent shall, if
materially adverse to Seller, constitute the non-fulfillment of the condition
set forth in Section 4.7(c) hereof provided nothing contained in this Section
shall be deemed to waive any remedies Seller may have for a default by
Purchaser; if, despite changes or other matters described in such certificate,
the Closing occurs, Purchaser's representations and warranties set forth in this
Agreement shall be deemed to have been modified by all statements made in such
certificate;

     (d) deliver to Seller such evidence as the Title Company may reasonably
require as to the authority of the person or persons executing documents on
behalf of Purchaser;

                                       10

(e) deliver such affidavits as may be customarily and reasonably required
by the Title Company, in a form reasonably acceptable to Purchaser;

     (f) execute a closing statement acceptable to Purchaser;

     (g) join Seller in the execution of a works of art agreement that shall be
in substantially the form of Exhibit T attached hereto and made a part hereof;

(h) deliver such additional documents as shall be reasonably required to
consummate the transaction contemplated by this Agreement.

     Section 4.4 Credits and Prorations.

     (a) All income and expenses of the Property shall be apportioned as of
12:01 a.m., on the day of Closing, as if Purchaser were vested with title to the
Property during the entire day upon which Closing occurs. Subject to the
provisions of this Section 4.4, such prorated items shall include without
limitation the following: (i) all Rents, if any; (ii) taxes and assessments
(including personal property taxes on the Personal Property) levied against the
Property to the extent such taxes and assessments are not the obligation of the
Tenant under the Net Lease to pay; (iii) utility charges for which Seller is
liable (to the extent such utility charges are not the obligation of the Tenant
under the Net Lease to pay), if any, such charges to be apportioned at Closing
on the basis of the most recent meter reading occurring prior to Closing (dated
not more than fifteen (15) days prior to Closing) or, if unmetered, on the basis
of a current bill for each such utility; (iv) all amounts payable under
brokerage agreements and Operating Agreements, pursuant to the terms of this
Agreement; (v) all amounts payable by the landlord under articles 34(f), 35 and
37 of the Net Lease and (vi) any other operating expenses or other items
pertaining to the Property (to the extent the same are not the obligation of the
tenant under the Net Lease to pay) which are customarily prorated between a
purchaser and a seller in the county in which the Property is located.

     (b) Notwithstanding anything contained in Section 4.4(a) hereof:

          (i) At Closing, (A) Seller shall, at Seller's option, either deliver
to Purchaser any Security Deposits actually held by Seller pursuant to the
Leases or credit to the account of Purchaser the amount of such Security
Deposits (to the extent such Security Deposits have not been applied against
delinquent Rents or otherwise as provided in the Leases), and (B) Purchaser
shall credit to the account of Seller all refundable cash or other deposits
posted by Seller with utility companies serving the Property, or, at Seller's
option, Seller shall be entitled to receive and retain such refundable cash and
deposits;

          (ii) Any taxes paid by Seller at or prior to Closing shall be prorated
based upon the amounts actually paid. If taxes and assessments due and payable
by Seller during the year of Closing have not been paid before Closing, Seller
shall be charged at Closing an amount equal to that portion of such taxes and
assessments which relates to the period before Closing and Purchaser shall pay
the taxes and assessments prior to their becoming delinquent. Any such
apportionment made with respect to a tax year for which the tax rate or assessed
valuation, or both, have not yet been fixed shall be based upon the tax rate
and/or assessed valuation last fixed. To the

                                       11

extent that the actual taxes and assessments for the current year differ from
the amount apportioned at Closing, the parties shall make all necessary
adjustments by appropriate payments between themselves within thirty (30) days
after such amounts are determined following Closing, subject to the provisions
of Section 4.4(d) hereof;

          (iii) Charges referred to in Section 4.4(a) hereof which are payable
by any tenant to a third party shall not be apportioned hereunder, and Purchaser
shall accept title subject to any of such charges unpaid and Purchaser shall
look solely to the tenant responsible therefor for the payment of the same. If
Seller shall have paid any of such charges on behalf of any tenant, and shall
not have been reimbursed therefor by the time of Closing, Purchaser shall credit
to Seller an amount equal to all such charges so paid by Seller;

          (iv) As to utility charges referred to in Section 4.4(a)(iii) hereof,
Seller may on notice to Purchaser elect to pay one or more or all of said items
accrued to the date hereinabove fixed for apportionment directly to the person
or entity entitled thereto, and to the extent Seller so elects, such item shall
not be apportioned hereunder, and Seller's obligation to pay such item directly
in such case shall survive the Closing or any termination of this Agreement;

          (v) Seller shall be responsible for the payment of all tenant
improvement costs and leasing commissions with respect to the Net Lease, if any,
that arose in the period prior to the Effective Date. Purchaser shall be
responsible for the payment of all other Tenant Inducement Costs and leasing
commissions (including the override commissions earned by Cushman & Wakefield
pursuant to its exclusive agency agreement with Seller) with respect to the
relocation of Guy Carpenter & Company from the Tower, the prospective New York
Academy of Sciences ("NYAS") lease, and any other new leases. Notwithstanding
the foregoing, Seller shall reimburse Purchaser for the Excess Costs (as defined
below) with respect to not more than 50,000 rentable square feet in the South
Building, but only to the extent that Purchaser's Tenant Inducement Costs and
leasing commissions for such 50,000 rentable square feet exceed $3,000,000 (such
excess hereinafter referred to as the "Excess Costs"), provided that in no event
shall such reimbursement exceed $1,500,000. For purposes hereof, the term
"Tenant Inducement Costs" shall mean any out-of-pocket payments required under a
Lease to be paid by the landlord thereunder not later than 12 months after the
Closing to or for the benefit of the tenant thereunder which is in the nature of
a tenant inducement, including specifically, without limitation, tenant
improvement costs, base building costs, lease buyout or relocation costs, and
moving, design, refurbishment and club membership allowances. The term "Tenant
Inducement Costs" shall not include loss of income resulting from any free
rental period, it being agreed that Seller shall bear the loss resulting from
any free rental period until the date of Closing and that Purchaser shall bear
such loss from and after the date of Closing. In order to receive reimbursement
of Excess Costs, Purchaser shall deliver evidence reasonably satisfactory to
Seller that Purchaser has incurred the Excess Costs, and Seller shall promptly
thereafter reimburse Purchaser therefor.

          (vi) Unpaid and delinquent Rent collected by Seller and Purchaser
after the date of Closing shall be delivered as follows: (a) if Seller collects
any unpaid or delinquent Rent for the Property, Seller shall, within fifteen
(15) days after the receipt thereof, deliver to Purchaser any such Rent which
Purchaser is entitled to hereunder relating to the date of Closing and any
period thereafter, and (b) if Purchaser collects any unpaid or delinquent Rent
from the Property, Purchaser shall, within fifteen (15) days after the receipt
thereof, deliver to Seller any such Rent

                                       12

which Seller is entitled to hereunder relating to the period prior to the date
of Closing. Purchaser will make a good faith effort after Closing to collect all
Rents in the usual course of Purchaser's operation of the Property. Seller and
Purchaser agree that all Rent received by Seller or Purchaser after the date of
Closing shall be applied first to current Rent and then to delinquent Rent, if
any, in the inverse order of maturity. Purchaser will make a good faith effort
after Closing to collect all Rents in the usual course of Purchaser's operation
of the Property, but Purchaser will not be obligated to institute any lawsuit or
other collection procedures to collect delinquent Rents. Seller may attempt to
collect any delinquent Rents owed Seller and may institute any lawsuit or
collection procedures, but may not evict any tenant after Closing. In the event
that there shall be any Rents or other charges under any Leases which, although
relating to a period prior to Closing, do not become due and payable until after
Closing or are paid prior to Closing but are subject to adjustment after Closing
(such as year end common area expense reimbursements and the like), then any
Rents or charges of such type received by Purchaser or its agents or Seller or
its agents subsequent to Closing shall, to the extent applicable to a period
extending through the Closing, be prorated between Seller and Purchaser as of
Closing and Seller's portion thereof shall be remitted promptly to Seller by
Purchaser.

          (vii) At such time as the NYCDOT consents to the assignment of
Seller's interest in the Revocable Consents, Purchaser shall promptly following
receipt of such consent, pay to Seller the amount of the security fund deposited
under each of the Revocable Consents and Seller shall assign to Purchaser all of
Seller's right, title and interest in and to such funds deposited.

     (c) Seller may prosecute appeals (if any) of the real property tax
assessment for the period prior to the Closing, and may take related action
which Seller deems appropriate in connection therewith. Purchaser shall
cooperate with and perform such ministerial and non-ministerial acts, and
execute any and all documents reasonably requested by Seller, in connection with
such appeal and collection of a refund of real property taxes paid. Seller owns
and holds all right, title and interest in and to such appeal and refund, and
all amounts payable in connection therewith shall be paid directly to Seller by
the applicable authorities. If such refund or any part thereof is received by
Purchaser, Purchaser shall promptly pay such amount to Seller. Any refund
received by Seller shall be distributed as follows: first, to reimburse Seller
for all costs incurred in connection with the appeal; second, with respect to
refunds payable to tenants of the Real Property pursuant to the Leases, to such
tenants in accordance with the terms of such Leases; and third, to Seller to the
extent such appeal covers the period prior to the Closing, and to Purchaser to
the extent such appeal covers the period as of the Closing and thereafter. If
and to the extent any such appeal covers the period after the Closing, Purchaser
shall have the right to participate in such appeal.

     (d) Except as otherwise provided herein, any revenue or expense amount
which cannot be ascertained with certainty as of Closing shall be prorated on
the basis of the parties' reasonable estimates of such amount, and shall be the
subject of a final proration one hundred eighty (180) days after Closing, or as
soon thereafter as the precise amounts can be ascertained. Any reconciliation of
revenue or expense amounts relating to Leases (other than the Net Lease) which
needs to be made in connection with this Section 4.4 shall be prepared by
Purchaser and submitted to Seller for Seller's review and approval. Purchaser
shall promptly notify Seller when it becomes aware that any such estimated
amount has been ascertained. Once all revenue and expense amounts have been
ascertained, Purchaser shall prepare, and certify as correct, a final proration

                                       13

statement which shall be in a form consistent with the closing statement
delivered at Closing and which shall be subject to Seller's approval. Upon
Seller's acceptance and approval of any final proration statement submitted by
Purchaser, such statement shall be conclusively deemed to be accurate and final,
and any payment due to any party as a result of such final proration shall be
made within thirty (30) days of such approval by Seller.

     (e) With respect to the Net Lease, Tenant bills Seller monthly for
estimated "Operating Payments" (as such term is defined in the Net Lease), with
a reconciliation of amounts billed and actual amounts incurred made within 120
days after the end of each calendar year. The estimated Operating Payment for
the month in which the Closing occurs shall be pro-rated between Seller and
Purchaser on the basis of each party's period of ownership during such calendar
month. Upon the reconciliation by Tenant of the amounts billed for Operating
Payments and the amounts actually incurred for Operating Payments for the
calendar year 2005, Seller and Purchaser shall be liable for underpayments of
Operating Payments ("Underpayments"), and shall be entitled to reimbursements
for overpayments of Operating Payments ("Overpayments"), as the case may be, on
a pro-rata basis based upon each party's period of ownership during such
calendar year. Purchaser shall promptly remit to Seller Seller's pro-rata share
of Overpayments received by Purchaser from Tenant. Seller shall promptly remit
to Purchaser Seller's pro-rata share of Underpayments. Seller hereby reserves
the right to exercise its right to dispute the correctness of the Operating
Statement given by Tenant for the calendar year 2005 pursuant to the provisions
of Section 35.6 of the Net Lease with respect to Seller's period of ownership.

     (f) Subject to the final sentence of Section 4.4(d) hereof, the provisions
of this Section 4.4 shall survive Closing.

     Section 4.5 Transaction Taxes and Closing Costs.

     (a) Seller and Purchaser shall execute such returns, questionnaires and
other documents as shall be required with regard to all applicable real property
transaction taxes imposed by applicable federal, state or local law or
ordinance;

     (b) Seller shall pay the fees of any counsel representing Seller in
connection with this transaction. Seller shall also pay the following costs and
expenses:

          (i) one-half of the escrow fee, if any, which may be charged by the
Escrow Agent or Title Company;

          (ii) the fees for Seller's Broker; and

          (iii) any transfer tax, sales tax, documentary stamp tax or similar
tax which becomes payable by reason of the transfer of the Property from Seller
to Purchaser;

     (c) Purchaser shall pay the fees of any counsel representing Purchaser in
connection with this transaction. Purchaser shall also pay the following costs
and expenses:

                                       14

(i) one-half of the escrow fee, if any, which may be charged by the
Escrow Agent or Title Company;

          (ii) the fee for the title examination and the Title Commitment and
the premium for the Owner's Policy of Title Insurance to be issued to Purchaser
by the Title Company at Closing, and all endorsements thereto;

          (iii) the cost of the Survey;

          (iv) the fees for recording the Deed; and

          (v) the fees for any broker, other than Seller's Broker, that
Purchaser has dealt with or engaged on its behalf or for its benefit, in
connection with the transaction contemplated by this Agreement, if any;

     (d) The Personal Property is included in this sale without charge and each
party acknowledges that no portion of the Purchase Price is attributable to the
Personal Property;

     (e) All costs and expenses incident to this transaction and the closing
thereof, and not specifically described above, shall be paid by the party
incurring same; and

     (f) The provisions of this Section 4.5 shall survive the Closing.

     Section 4.6 Conditions Precedent to Obligations of Purchaser. The
obligation of Purchaser to consummate the transaction hereunder shall be subject
to the fulfillment on or before the date of Closing of all of the following
conditions, any or all of which may be waived by Purchaser in its sole
discretion:

     (a) Seller shall have delivered to Purchaser all of the items required to
be delivered to Purchaser pursuant to the terms of this Agreement, including but
not limited to, those provided for in Section 4.2 hereof;

     (b) All of the representations and warranties of Seller contained in this
Agreement shall be true and correct in all material respects as of the date of
Closing (with appropriate modifications permitted under this Agreement);

     (c) The members of the Board of Directors of the Condominium and the
Officers of the Condominium shall deliver written notices resigning their
respective positions of the Condominium effective the date of the Closing
(collectively, the "Board Resignation Letters"); and

     (d) Seller shall have performed and observed, in all material respects, all
covenants and agreements of this Agreement to be performed and observed by
Seller as of the date of Closing.

     Section 4.7 Conditions Precedent to Obligations of Seller. The obligation
of Seller to consummate the transaction hereunder shall be subject to the
fulfillment on or before the

                                       15

date of Closing of all of the following conditions, any or all of which may be
waived by Seller in its sole discretion:

     (a) Seller shall have received the Purchase Price as adjusted as provided
herein, pursuant to and payable in the manner provided for in this Agreement;

     (b) Purchaser shall have delivered to Seller all of the items required to
be delivered to Seller pursuant to the terms of this Agreement, including but
not limited to, those provided for in Section 4.3 hereof;

     (c) All of the representations and warranties of Purchaser contained in
this Agreement shall be true and correct in all material respects as of the date
of Closing (with appropriate modifications permitted under this Agreement); and

     (d) Purchaser shall have performed and observed, in all material respects,
all covenants and agreements of this Agreement to be performed and observed by
Purchaser as of the date of Closing.

                                    ARTICLE V

                    REPRESENTATIONS, WARRANTIES AND COVENANTS

     Section 5.1 Representations and Warranties of Seller. Seller hereby makes
the following representations and warranties to Purchaser as of the Effective
Date, which representations and warranties shall be deemed to have been made
again as of the Closing, subject to Section 4.2(f) hereof:

     (a) Organization and Authority. Seller has been duly organized and is
validly existing under the laws of the State of New York. Seller has the full
right and authority to enter into this Agreement and to transfer all of the
Property and to consummate or cause to be consummated the transaction
contemplated by this Agreement. The person signing this Agreement on behalf of
Seller is authorized to do so.

     (b) Pending Actions. To Seller's knowledge, Seller has not received written
notice of any action, suit, arbitration, unsatisfied order or judgment,
government investigation or proceeding pending against Seller which, if
adversely determined, could individually or in the aggregate materially
interfere with the consummation of the transaction or make any of Seller's
representations in this Section 5.1 materially untrue.

     (c) Operating Agreements. To Seller's knowledge, the Operating Agreements
listed on Exhibit C are all of the agreements concerning the operation and
maintenance of the Physical Property entered into by Seller which have not been
assigned to the Tenant under the Net Lease. Seller has provided to Purchaser
true and complete copies of the Operating Agreements.

     (d) Lease Brokerage. To Seller's knowledge, there are no agreements with
brokers providing for the payment from and after the Closing by Seller or
Seller's successor-in-interest of

                                       16

leasing commissions or fees for procuring tenants with respect to the Physical
Property, except as disclosed in Exhibit L hereto;

     (e) Condemnation. To Seller's knowledge, Seller has received no written
notice of any condemnation proceedings relating to the Physical Property.

     (f) Litigation. To Seller's knowledge, except as set forth on Exhibit M
attached hereto, and except for proceedings related to claims for personal
injury or damage to property due to events occurring at the Property, Seller has
not received written notice of any litigation which has been filed against
Seller that arises out of the ownership of the Property and could, if adversely
determined, materially affect the Property or use thereof, or Seller's ability
to perform hereunder;

     (g) Violations. To Seller's knowledge, except as set forth on Exhibit N
attached hereto, Seller has not received written notice of any uncured violation
of any federal, state or local law relating to the use or operation of the
Physical Property which would materially adversely affect the Property or use
thereof; and

     (h) Leases. To Seller's knowledge, the rent roll attached hereto as Exhibit
O is accurate in all material respects, and lists all of the leases currently
affecting the Physical Property.

     (i) Security Deposits. To Seller's knowledge, Exhibit P is a true, correct
and complete list of the security deposits currently held by Seller under the
Leases in effect as of the date hereof.

     (j) Tenant Arrearage. To Seller's knowledge, Exhibit O includes a tenant
arrearage schedule which, to the best of Seller's knowledge, was true, correct
and complete in all material respects as of the date set forth thereon.

     (k) Landlord Default. To Seller's knowledge, except as set forth in Exhibit
Q, there are no uncured defaults which have been asserted in writing against
Seller by any tenant under any Lease.

     Section 5.2 Knowledge Defined. References to the "knowledge" of Seller
shall refer only to the current actual knowledge of the Designated Employees (as
hereinafter defined) of Seller, and shall not be construed, by imputation or
otherwise, to refer to the knowledge of Seller or any affiliate of Seller, to
any property manager, or to any other officer, agent, manager, representative or
employee of Seller or any affiliate thereof or to impose upon such Designated
Employees any duty to investigate the matter to which such actual knowledge, or
in the absence thereof, pertains. As used herein, the term "Designated
Employees" shall refer to the following persons: (a) Gregory R. Reed, Director
and (b) William L. Engel, Associate Director, and (c) Jeffrey Marconi, asset
managers of the Property since 2001.

     Section 5.3 Modification of Seller's Representations and Warranties.
Purchaser acknowledges that it has inspected (i) all of the documents delivered
or furnished to Purchaser for inspection, (ii) such other documents and
information as it has deemed appropriate and (iii) the Property and Purchaser
agrees that, in the event that during such inspection Purchaser discovered any
material matter which would form the basis for a claim by Purchaser that Seller
has breached

                                       17

any representation or warranty of Seller made in this Agreement or has any
actual knowledge of any such matter, Seller's representations and warranties
hereunder shall be deemed amended so as to be true and accurate and Purchaser
shall have no claim for any breach based thereon.

     Section 5.4 Survival of Seller's Representations and Warranties. The
representations and warranties of Seller set forth in Section 5.1 hereof as
updated as of the Closing in accordance with the terms of this Agreement, shall
survive Closing for a period of one hundred eighty (180) days. No claim for a
breach of any representation or warranty of Seller shall be actionable or
payable if the breach in question results from or is based on a condition, state
of facts or other matter which was known to Purchaser prior to Closing. Seller
shall have no liability to Purchaser for a breach of any representation or
warranty (a) unless the valid claims for all such breaches collectively
aggregate more than Five Hundred Thousand Dollars ($500,000), in which event the
full amount of such valid claims shall be actionable, up to the Cap (as defined
in this Section), and (b) unless written notice containing a description of the
specific nature of such breach shall have been given by Purchaser to Seller
prior to the expiration of said one hundred eighty (180) day period and an
action shall have been commenced by Purchaser against Seller within two hundred
forty (240) days of Closing. Purchaser agrees to first seek recovery under any
insurance policies, service contracts and Leases prior to seeking recovery from
Seller, and Seller shall not be liable to Purchaser if Purchaser's claim is
satisfied from such insurance policies, service contracts or Leases. As used
herein, the term "Cap" shall mean the total aggregate amount of Five Million
Dollars ($5,000,000).

     Section 5.5 Covenants of Seller. Seller hereby covenants with Purchaser as
follows:

     (a) Tenant currently operates the Property pursuant to the Net Lease. From
the Effective Date hereof until the Closing or earlier termination of this
Agreement, Seller shall not request or consent to any change in the manner in
which Tenant has operated and maintained the Property prior to the date hereof;

     (b) From and after the Effective Date hereof until the Closing or earlier
termination of this Agreement, neither Seller nor Purchaser will enter into any
amendment, renewal or expansion of an existing Lease or any new Lease without
the consent of the other party.

     (c) Promptly after execution of this Agreement, Seller will deliver to
Purchaser a copy of the form of application (the "Application") submitted to the
New York State Department of Law (the "Department") in connection with the
issuance of the "no action" letter dated December 19, 2001 (the "No Action
Letter") relating to the Property. Purchaser shall have the right, at
Purchaser's sole cost and expense, to submit an application (the "New
Application") to the Department, requesting either (i) an amendment to the
No-Action Letter, or (ii) issuance of a new no-action letter (either (i) or
(ii), the ("AG Approval")), permitting Seller to transfer Units comprising the
Property to more than one transferee. Seller shall cooperate with Purchaser, at
Purchaser's sole cost and expense, in connection with submission of the New
Application and issuance of the Approval, including without limitation,
executing any reasonable affidavits and/or providing any reasonable information
or documentation required or requested by the Department in order to obtain the
AG Approval. Notwithstanding the foregoing, it shall not be a

                                       18

pre-condition to Closing that the AG Approval shall have been obtained and in no
event shall the Closing be postponed or delayed by the failure of Purchaser to
have obtained the AG Approval.

     Section 5.6 Representations and Warranties of Purchaser. Purchaser hereby
makes the following representations and warranties to Seller as of the Effective
Date, which representations and warranties shall be deemed to have been made
again as of the Closing, subject to Section 4.3(c) hereof:

     (a) Organization and Authority.

     (i) This Agreement and the consummation of the transactions contemplated
hereby have been duly authorized by all necessary action on the part of the
Purchaser and, upon the assumption that this Agreement constitutes a legal,
valid and binding obligation of Seller, this Agreement constitutes a legal,
valid and binding obligation of Purchaser enforceable against Purchaser in
accordance with its terms, subject to applicable laws relating to bankruptcy,
insolvency, moratorium, as well as other laws affecting creditors' rights and
general equitable principles. The execution and delivery of this Agreement and
the consummation of the transactions contemplated hereby do not and will not (1)
violate or conflict with the Certificate of Formation or Operating Agreement of
Purchaser; (2) breach the provisions of, or constitute a default under, any
contract, agreement, instrument or obligation to which Purchaser is a party or
by which Purchaser is bound; and (3) require the consent or approval of any
other third party or governmental agency.

     (ii) Purchaser hereby represents that, and agrees to furnish Seller at or
prior to the Closing evidence confirming that (i) 1 Madison Venture LLC is a
limited liability company duly organized and validly existing under the laws of
Delaware beneficially owned and controlled by SL Green Realty Corp., a publicly
traded corporation ("Green"), Column Financial, Inc. ("Column") is a corporation
duly organized and validly existing under the laws of Delaware beneficially
owned and controlled by Credit Suisse First Boston (USA), Inc., and (ii) the
parties executing this Agreement and the Closing Documents on behalf of
Purchaser have the legal capacity and authority to execute the documents as
executed or to be executed.

     (b) Pending Actions. To Purchaser's knowledge, there is no action, suit,
arbitration, unsatisfied order or judgment, government investigation or
proceeding pending against Purchaser which, if adversely determined, could
individually or in the aggregate materially interfere with the consummation of
the transaction contemplated by this Agreement.

     (c) ERISA. (i) As of the Closing, (1) Purchaser will not be an employee
benefit plan as defined in Section 3(3) of the Employee Retirement Income
Security Act of 1974, as amended ("ERISA"), which is subject to Title I of
ERISA, nor a plan as defined in Section 4975(e)(1) of the Internal Revenue Code
of 1986, as amended (each of the foregoing hereinafter referred to collectively
as "Plan"), and (2) the assets of the Purchaser will not constitute "plan
assets" of one or more such Plans within the meaning of Department of Labor
("DOL") Regulation Section 2510.3-101.

     (ii) As of the Closing, if Purchaser is a "governmental plan" as defined in
Section 3(32) of ERISA, the closing of the sale of the Property will not
constitute or result in a violation of

                                       19
 
state or local statutes regulating investments of and fiduciary obligations
with respect to governmental plans.

     (iii) As of the Closing, Purchaser will be acting on its own behalf and not
on account of or for the benefit of any Plan.

     (iv) Purchaser has no present intent to transfer the Property to any
entity, person or Plan which will cause a violation of ERISA.

     (v) Purchaser shall not assign its interest under this Agreement to any
entity, person, or Plan which will cause a violation of ERISA.

     Section 5.7 Survival of Purchaser's Representations and Warranties. The
representations and warranties of Purchaser set forth in Section 5.6 hereof as
updated as of the Closing in accordance with the terms of this Agreement, shall
survive Closing for a period of one hundred eighty (180) days. Purchaser shall
have no liability to Seller for a breach of any representation or warranty
unless written notice containing a description of the specific nature of such
breach shall have been given by Seller to Purchaser prior to the expiration of
said one hundred eighty (180) day period and an action shall have been commenced
by Seller against Purchaser within two hundred forty (240) days of Closing.

ARTICLE VI

                                     DEFAULT

     Section 6.1 Default by Purchaser. In the event the sale of the Property as
contemplated hereunder is not consummated due to Purchaser's default hereunder,
Seller shall be entitled, as its sole remedy, to terminate this Agreement and
receive the Deposit as liquidated damages for the breach of this Agreement, it
being agreed between the parties hereto that the actual damages to Seller in the
event of such breach are impractical to ascertain and the amount of the Deposit
is a reasonable estimate thereof.

     Section 6.2 Default by Seller. In the event the sale of the Property as
contemplated hereunder is not consummated due to Seller's default hereunder,
Purchaser shall be entitled, as its sole remedy, either (a) to receive the
return of the Deposit, which return shall operate to terminate this Agreement
and release Seller from any and all liability hereunder, or (b) to enforce
specific performance of Seller's obligation to convey the Property to Purchaser
in accordance with the terms of this Agreement, it being understood and agreed
that the remedy of specific performance shall not be available to enforce any
other obligation of Seller hereunder. Purchaser expressly waives its rights to
seek damages in the event of Seller's default hereunder. If the sale of the
Property is not consummated due to Seller's default hereunder, Purchaser shall
be deemed to have elected to terminate this Agreement and receive back the
Deposit if Purchaser fails to file suit for specific performance against Seller
in a court having jurisdiction in the county and state in which the Property is
located, on or before thirty (30) days following the date upon which Closing was
to have occurred.

                                       20

Section 6.3 Recoverable Damages. Notwithstanding Sections 6.1 and 6.2
hereof, in no event shall the provisions of Sections 6.1 and 6.2 limit the
damages recoverable by either party against the other party due to the other
party's obligation to indemnify such party in accordance with this Agreement.
This Section shall survive the Closing or the earlier termination of this
Agreement.

ARTICLE VII

                                  RISK OF LOSS

     Section 7.1 Minor Damage or Condemnation. Tenant maintains the casualty
insurance with respect to the Building and is obligated to repair and restore
the Building except in certain circumstances set forth in the Net Lease. In the
event of loss or damage to, or condemnation of, the Physical Property or any
portion thereof which is not "Major" (as hereinafter defined), this Agreement
shall remain in full force and effect.

     Section 7.2 Major Damage. In the event of a "Major" loss or damage to, or
condemnation of, the Physical Property or any portion thereof, Purchaser may
terminate this Agreement by written notice to Seller, in which event the Deposit
shall be returned to Purchaser. If Purchaser does not elect to terminate this
Agreement within ten (10) days after Seller sends Purchaser written notice of
the occurrence of such Major loss, damage or condemnation (which notice shall
state the cost of repair or restoration thereof as opined by an architect in
accordance with Section 7.3 hereof), then Purchaser shall be deemed to have
elected to proceed with Closing.

     Section 7.3 Definition of "Major" Loss or Damage. For purposes of Sections
7.1 and 7.2, "Major" loss, damage or condemnation refers to the following: (a)
loss or damage to the Physical Property hereof such that the cost of repairing
or restoring the premises in question to substantially the same condition which
existed prior to the event of damage would be, in the opinion of an architect
selected by Seller and reasonably approved by Purchaser, equal to or greater
than Forty Million Dollars ($40,000,000), and (b) any loss due to a condemnation
which permanently and materially impairs the current use of the Physical
Property. If Purchaser does not give written notice to Seller of Purchaser's
reasons for disapproving an architect within five (5) business days after
receipt of notice of the proposed architect, Purchaser shall be deemed to have
approved the architect selected by Seller.

     Section 7.4 General Obligations Law The parties hereto waive the provisions
of Section 5-1311 of the General Obligations Law, which shall not apply to this
Agreement and agree that their respective rights in case of damage, destruction,
condemnation or taking by eminent domain shall be governed by the provisions of
this Section. The provisions of this Section shall survive the Closing.

                                  ARTICLE VIII

                                   COMMISSIONS

                                       21

Section 8.1 Brokerage Commissions. With respect to the transaction
contemplated by this Agreement, Seller represents that its sole broker is CB
Richard Ellis, Inc. ("Seller's Broker"), and Purchaser represents that it has
not dealt with or engaged on its behalf or for its benefit any broker other than
Seller's Broker. Seller shall be fully responsible for any and all commissions
and other compensation due Seller's Broker in connection with the transaction
contemplated by this Agreement, which shall be paid pursuant to a separate
written agreement between Seller and Seller's Broker. Each party hereto agrees
that if any person or entity, other than the Seller's Broker, makes a claim for
brokerage commissions or finder's fees related to the sale of the Property by
Seller to Purchaser, and such claim is made by, through or on account of any
acts or alleged acts of said party or its representatives, said party will
protect, indemnify, defend and hold the other party free and harmless from and
against any and all loss, liability, cost, damage and expense (including
reasonable attorneys' fees) in connection therewith. The provisions of this
paragraph shall survive Closing or any termination of this Agreement.

ARTICLE IX

                             DISCLAIMERS AND WAIVERS

     Section 9.1 No Reliance on Documents. Except as expressly stated herein,
Seller makes no representation or warranty as to the truth, accuracy or
completeness of any materials, data or information delivered or given by Seller
or its brokers or agents to Purchaser in connection with the transaction
contemplated hereby. Purchaser acknowledges and agrees that all materials, data
and information delivered or given by Seller to Purchaser in connection with the
transaction contemplated hereby are provided to Purchaser as a convenience only
and that any reliance on or use of such materials, data or information by
Purchaser shall be at the sole risk of Purchaser, except as otherwise expressly
stated herein. Neither Seller, nor any affiliate of Seller, nor the person or
entity which prepared any report or reports delivered by Seller to Purchaser
shall have any liability to Purchaser for any inaccuracy in or omission from any
such reports.

     Section 9.2 AS-IS SALE; DISCLAIMERS. EXCEPT AS EXPRESSLY SET FORTH IN THIS
AGREEMENT, IT IS UNDERSTOOD AND AGREED THAT SELLER IS NOT MAKING AND HAS NOT AT
ANY TIME MADE ANY WARRANTIES, REPRESENTATIONS, GUARANTIES, COVENANTS OR
STATEMENTS OF ANY TYPE, KIND, NATURE OR CHARACTER WHATSOEVER, EXPRESS OR
IMPLIED, WITH RESPECT TO THE PROPERTY, INCLUDING BUT NOT LIMITED TO, ANY
WARRANTIES, REPRESENTATIONS, GUARANTIES, COVENANTS OR STATEMENTS AS TO
HABITABILITY, MERCHANTABILITY OR FITNESS OF THE PROPERTY FOR A PARTICULAR
PURPOSE, THE INCOME, EXPENSES, OPERATION OR PROFITABILITY OF THE PROPERTY, THE
OPERATING HISTORY OF OR ANY PROJECTIONS RELATING TO THE PROPERTY, THE VALUATION
OF THE PROPERTY, ANY TAX TREATMENT, WHETHER INCOME OR OTHERWISE, RELATED TO THE
PROPERTY, OR AS TO THE PHYSICAL, STRUCTURAL, OR ENVIRONMENTAL CONDITION OF THE
PROPERTY, ITS COMPLIANCE WITH LAWS OR WITH RESPECT TO THE ZONING OF, OR ANY
APPROVALS, LICENSES OR PERMITS REQUIRED FOR THE PROPERTY, OR THE SUITABILITY OF
THE PROPERTY FOR PURCHASER'S INTENDED USE THEREOF OR THE ABILITY OR FEASIBILITY
TO CONVERT THE PROPERTY OR ANY PORTION

                                       22

THEREOF TO ANY OTHER OR PARTICULAR USE, OR WITH RESPECT TO THE AVAILABILITY OF
ACCESS, INGRESS OR EGRESS TO THE PROPERTY, THE NEED FOR OR COMPLIANCE WITH
GOVERNMENTAL OR THIRD PARTY APPROVALS OR GOVERNMENTAL REGULATIONS, OR ANY OTHER
MATTER OR THING OF ANY TYPE, KIND, NATURE OR CHARACTER WHATSOEVER RELATING TO OR
AFFECTING THE PROPERTY.

     PURCHASER ACKNOWLEDGES AND AGREES THAT UPON CLOSING SELLER SHALL SELL AND
CONVEY TO PURCHASER AND PURCHASER SHALL ACCEPT THE PROPERTY "AS IS, WHERE IS,
WITH ALL FAULTS", EXCEPT TO THE EXTENT EXPRESSLY PROVIDED OTHERWISE IN THIS
AGREEMENT. PURCHASER HAS NOT RELIED AND WILL NOT RELY ON, AND SELLER IS NOT
LIABLE FOR OR BOUND BY, ANY EXPRESS OR IMPLIED WARRANTIES, GUARANTIES,
COVENANTS, STATEMENTS, REPRESENTATIONS OR INFORMATION PERTAINING TO THE PROPERTY
OR RELATING THERETO (INCLUDING SPECIFICALLY, WITHOUT LIMITATION, OFFERING
PACKAGES DISTRIBUTED WITH RESPECT TO THE PROPERTY) MADE OR FURNISHED BY SELLER,
THE MANAGERS OF THE PROPERTY, OR ANY REAL ESTATE BROKER OR AGENT REPRESENTING OR
PURPORTING TO REPRESENT SELLER, TO WHOMEVER MADE OR GIVEN, DIRECTLY OR
INDIRECTLY, ORALLY OR IN WRITING, UNLESS AND TO THE EXTENT EXPRESSLY SET FORTH
IN THIS AGREEMENT. PURCHASER ALSO ACKNOWLEDGES THAT THE PURCHASE PRICE REFLECTS
AND TAKES INTO ACCOUNT THAT THE PROPERTY IS BEING SOLD "AS-IS, WHERE IS, WITH
ALL FAULTS."

     PURCHASER REPRESENTS TO SELLER THAT PURCHASER HAS CONDUCTED SUCH
INVESTIGATIONS OF THE PROPERTY, INCLUDING BUT NOT LIMITED TO, THE PHYSICAL,
STRUCTURAL, AND ENVIRONMENTAL CONDITIONS, THE INCOME AND EXPENSES OF AND FROM
THE PROPERTY AND THE PROFITABILITY OF THE PROPERTY AND ANY TAX TREATMENT,
WHETHER INCOME OR OTHERWISE, RELATED TO THE PROPERTY, AS PURCHASER DEEMS
NECESSARY OR DESIRABLE TO SATISFY ITSELF AS TO THE CONDITION OF THE PROPERTY AND
THE EXISTENCE OR NONEXISTENCE OR CURATIVE ACTION TO BE TAKEN WITH RESPECT TO ANY
HAZARDOUS OR TOXIC SUBSTANCES ON OR DISCHARGED FROM THE PROPERTY, AND IS RELYING
SOLELY AND WILL RELY SOLELY UPON SAME AND NOT UPON ANY INFORMATION PROVIDED BY
OR ON BEHALF OF SELLER OR ITS AGENTS OR EMPLOYEES WITH RESPECT THERETO, OTHER
THAN ANY, IF ANY, REPRESENTATIONS, WARRANTIES AND COVENANTS OF SELLER AS ARE
EXPRESSLY SET FORTH IN THIS AGREEMENT. UPON CLOSING, PURCHASER SHALL ASSUME THE
RISK THAT ADVERSE MATTERS, INCLUDING BUT NOT LIMITED TO, CONSTRUCTION DEFECTS
AND ADVERSE PHYSICAL, ENVIRONMENTAL, FINANCIAL AND ECONOMIC CONDITIONS, MAY NOT
HAVE BEEN REVEALED BY PURCHASER'S INVESTIGATIONS, AND PURCHASER, UPON CLOSING,
SHALL BE DEEMED TO HAVE WAIVED, RELINQUISHED AND RELEASED SELLER (AND SELLER'S
AFFILIATES, OFFICERS, DIRECTORS, SHAREHOLDERS, EMPLOYEES AND AGENTS) FROM AND
AGAINST ANY AND ALL CLAIMS, DEMANDS, CAUSES OF ACTION (INCLUDING WITHOUT
LIMITATION CAUSES OF ACTION IN TORT), LOSSES, DAMAGES, LIABILITIES, COSTS AND
EXPENSES

                                       23

(INCLUDING REASONABLE ATTORNEYS' FEES) OF ANY AND EVERY TYPE, KIND, CHARACTER OR
NATURE WHATSOEVER, KNOWN OR UNKNOWN, WHICH PURCHASER MIGHT HAVE ASSERTED OR
ALLEGED AGAINST SELLER (AND/OR SELLER'S AFFILIATES, OFFICERS, DIRECTORS,
SHAREHOLDERS, EMPLOYEES AND AGENTS) AT ANY TIME BY REASON OF OR ARISING OUT OF
THE PHYSICAL, ENVIRONMENTAL, STRUCTURAL, FINANCIAL AND ECONOMIC CONDITION OF THE
PROPERTY, ANY LATENT OR PATENT CONSTRUCTION OR OTHER DEFECTS RELATED TO THE
PROPERTY, VIOLATIONS OF ANY APPLICABLE LAWS RELATED TO THE PROPERTY, THE
HABITABILITY, MERCHANTABILITY OR FITNESS OF THE PROPERTY FOR ANY PARTICULAR
PURPOSE, THE INCOME, EXPENSES OR PROFITABILITY OF THE PROPERTY, ANY TAX
TREATMENT, WHETHER INCOME OR OTHERWISE, RELATED TO THE PROPERTY, OF THE
PROPERTY, ITS COMPLIANCE WITH LAWS OR WITH RESPECT TO THE ZONING OF, APPROVALS
REQUIRED FOR, OR THE SUITABILITY OF THE PROPERTY FOR PURCHASER'S INTENDED USE
THEREOF OR THE ABILITY OR THE FEASIBILITY TO CONVERT THE PROPERTY OR ANY PORTION
THEREOF TO ANY OTHER OR PARTICULAR USE, OR WITH RESPECT TO THE AVAILABILITY OF
ACCESS, INGRESS OR EGRESS, OPERATING HISTORY OR PROJECTIONS, VALUATION,
GOVERNMENTAL OR THIRD PARTY APPROVALS, GOVERNMENTAL REGULATIONS OR ANY OTHER
MATTER OR THING OF ANY TYPE, KIND, NATURE OR CHARACTER WHATSOEVER RELATING TO OR
AFFECTING THE PROPERTY, AND ANY AND ALL OTHER ACTS, OMISSIONS, EVENTS,
CIRCUMSTANCES OR MATTERS OF ANY TYPE, CHARACTER OR NATURE WHATSOEVER REGARDING
THE PROPERTY. PURCHASER ACKNOWLEDGES THAT SUCH ADVERSE MATTERS MAY AFFECT
PURCHASER'S ABILITY TO SELL, LEASE, OPERATE OR FINANCE THE PROPERTY AT ANY TIME
AND FROM TIME TO TIME.

     Section 9.3 Survival of Disclaimers. The provisions of this Article IX
shall survive Closing or any termination of this Agreement.

                                    ARTICLE X

                                  MISCELLANEOUS

     Section 10.1 Confidentiality. Purchaser and its representatives shall hold
in strictest confidence all data and information obtained with respect to Seller
or its business, whether obtained before or after the execution and delivery of
this Agreement which shall be used solely for the purposes of evaluating the
proposed acquisition of the Property by Purchaser, and shall not disclose the
same to others; provided, however, that it is understood and agreed that
Purchaser may disclose such data and information to the employees, lenders,
consultants, accountants and attorneys of Purchaser provided that such persons
agree in writing to treat such data and information confidentially. In the event
this Agreement is terminated or Purchaser fails to perform hereunder, Purchaser
shall promptly return to Seller any statements, documents, schedules, exhibits
or other written information obtained from Seller in connection with this
Agreement or the transaction contemplated herein. In the event of a breach or
threatened breach by Purchaser or its agents or representatives of this Section
10.1, Seller shall be entitled to an injunction restraining Purchaser or its
agents or representatives from disclosing, in whole or in part, such
confidential information. Nothing herein shall be construed as prohibiting
Seller from pursuing any other

                                       24

available remedy at law or in equity for such breach or threatened breach. The
provisions of this Section 10.1 shall survive termination of this Agreement.

     Section 10.2 Public Disclosure. Except as set forth below, prior to the
Closing, any press release or other public disclosure of information with
respect to the sale contemplated herein or any matters set forth in this
Agreement made or released by or on behalf of either party shall be subject to
the prior approval of the other party. Notwithstanding the provisions of this
Section 10.2 above, at any time after the date hereof, either party may, if in
such party's reasonable discretion it is necessary (upon advice of counsel) to
comply with law (including subpoenas, court orders or similar legal processes),
rules or regulations or the requirements of a securities self regulatory
organization, issue a press release or other public disclosure acknowledgement
that Purchaser and Seller have entered into a contract of sale with respect to
the Property, the anticipated closing date, and containing such other
information which such party reasonably believes to be required to be disclosed.
The provisions of this Section 10.2 shall survive any termination of this
Agreement.

     Section 10.3 Assignment. Subject to the provisions of this Section 10.3,
the terms and provisions of this Agreement are to apply to and bind the
permitted successors and assigns of the parties hereto. Purchaser may not assign
its rights under this Agreement without first obtaining Seller's written
approval, which approval may be given or withheld in Seller's sole discretion,
and any such attempted assignment without Seller's prior written approval shall
be null and void. In the event Purchaser intends to assign its rights hereunder,
(a) Purchaser shall send Seller written notice of its request at least ten (10)
business days prior to Closing, which request shall include the legal name and
structure of the proposed assignee, as well as any other information that Seller
may reasonably request, and (b) Purchaser and the proposed assignee shall
execute an assignment and assumption of this Agreement in form and substance
satisfactory to Seller, and (c) in no event shall any assignment of this
Agreement release or discharge Purchaser from any liability or obligation
hereunder. Notwithstanding the second sentence of this Section 10.3 (i)
Purchaser may assign this Agreement in its entirety to an entity which is wholly
owned, directly or indirectly, and controlled by, any of Green, Column, Gramercy
(as defined in Section 10.22) or any combination of such parties; and (ii) at
Closing, provided that (x) the Department has issued the AG Approval, (y) the
Tenant under the Net Lease has consented in writing to such transfers, and (z)
Purchaser at its sole cost and expense has prepared an amendment to the
Declaration to permit such transfers which amendment has been approved (such
approval not to be unreasonably withheld or delayed) by Seller's counsel (which
legal expense shall be paid by Purchaser), Purchaser may designate one or more
entities, each of which is owned, directly or indirectly, by any of SLG, Column,
Gramercy or any combination of such parties, to acquire one or more Units
comprising the Property. Notwithstanding the foregoing, under no circumstances
shall Purchaser have the right to assign this Agreement (1) to any person or
entity owned or controlled by an employee benefit plan if Seller's sale of the
Property to such person or entity would, in the reasonable opinion of Seller's
ERISA advisor, create or otherwise cause a "prohibited transaction" under ERISA,
and (2) in any manner that is not in compliance with laws, rules, and
regulations of any governmental authority having jurisdiction thereof (including
but not limited to the US Department of Treasury Office of Foreign Assets
Control and the US Patriot Act). Any transfer, directly or indirectly, of any
stock, partnership interest or other ownership interest in Purchaser or of the
persons and/or entities that control Purchaser shall constitute an assignment of
this Agreement. The provisions of this Section 10.3 shall survive the Closing or
any termination of this Agreement.

                                       25

Section 10.4 Notices. Any notice pursuant to this Agreement shall be given
in writing by (a) personal delivery, (b) reputable overnight delivery service
with proof of delivery, (c) United States Mail, postage prepaid, registered or
certified mail, return receipt requested, or (d) legible facsimile transmission,
sent to the intended addressee at the address set forth below, or to such other
address or to the attention of such other person as the addressee shall have
designated by written notice sent in accordance herewith, and shall be deemed to
have been given upon receipt or refusal to accept delivery, or, in the case of
facsimile transmission, as of the date of the facsimile transmission provided
that an original of such facsimile is also sent to the intended addressee by
means described in clauses (a), (b) or (c) above. Unless changed in accordance
with the preceding sentence, the addresses for notices given pursuant to this
Agreement shall be as follows:

If to Seller         Metropolitan Life Insurance Company
                     10 Park Avenue
                     Morristown, New Jersey  07960
                     Attention:  Managing Director, Real Estate Investments,
                                 Equity Investments Portfolio
                     Telephone No. 973-355-4409
                     Telecopy No. 973-355-4430

With a copy to:      Metropolitan Life Insurance Company
                     10 Park Avenue
                     Morristown, New Jersey 07960
                     Attention: William P. Gardella,
                                Senior Associate General Counsel,
                     Telephone No. 973-355-4902
                     Telecopy No. 973-355-4920

If to Purchaser:     1 Madison Venture LLC
                     c/o SL Green Realty Corp.
                     420 Lexington Avenue
                     New York, New York 10170
                     Attention: Marc Holliday
                                Andrew S. Levine
                     Telephone No. 212-216-1684
                     Telecopy No. 212-216-1785

with a copy to:      Column Financial, Inc.
                     11 Madison Avenue
                     New York, New York 10010
                     Attention: Mason Sleeper
                     Telephone No. 212-235-6858
                     Telecopy No. 212-325-8185

with a copy to:      Solomon and Weinberg LLP
                     900 Third Avenue, 29th Floor

                                       26

New York, New York 10022
                     Attention: Craig H. Solomon, Esq.
                                Howard R. Shapiro, Esq.
                     Telephone No. 212-605-1000
                     Telecopy No. 212-605-0999

and                  Greenberg Traurig LLP
                     200 Park Avenue
                     New York, New York 10166
                     Attention: Stephen Rabinowitz, Esq.
                     Telephone No. 212-801-9295
                     Telecopy No. 212-801-6400

Section 10.5 Modifications. This Agreement cannot be changed orally, and no
executory agreement shall be effective to waive, change, modify or discharge it
in whole or in part unless such executory agreement is in writing and is signed
by the parties against whom enforcement of any waiver, change, modification or
discharge is sought.

     Section 10.6 Entire Agreement. This Agreement, including the exhibits and
schedules hereto, contains the entire agreement between the parties hereto
pertaining to the subject matter hereof and fully supersedes all prior written
or oral agreements and understandings between the parties pertaining to such
subject matter, other than any confidentiality agreement executed by Purchaser
in connection with the Property.

     Section 10.7 Further Assurances. Each party agrees that it will execute and
deliver such other documents and take such other action, whether prior or
subsequent to Closing, as may be reasonably requested by the other party to
consummate the transaction contemplated by this Agreement. The provisions of
this Section 10.7 shall survive Closing.

     Section 10.8 Counterparts. This Agreement may be executed in counterparts,
all such executed counterparts shall constitute the same agreement, and the
signature of any party to any counterpart shall be deemed a signature to, and
may be appended to, any other counterpart.

     Section 10.9 Facsimile Signatures. In order to expedite the transaction
contemplated herein, telecopied signatures may be used in place of original
signatures on this Agreement. Seller and Purchaser intend to be bound by the
signatures on the telecopied document, are aware that the other party will rely
on the telecopied signatures, and hereby waive any defenses to the enforcement
of the terms of this Agreement based on the form of signature.

     Section 10.10 Severability. If any provision of this Agreement is
determined by a court of competent jurisdiction to be invalid or unenforceable,
the remainder of this Agreement shall nonetheless remain in full force and
effect; provided that the invalidity or unenforceability of such provision does
not materially adversely affect the benefits accruing to any party hereunder.

                                       27

Section 10.11 Applicable Law. This Agreement shall be governed by and
construed in accordance with the laws of the State in which the Property is
located. Purchaser and Seller agree that the provisions of this Section 10.11
shall survive the Closing or any termination of this Agreement.

     Section 10.12 No Third-Party Beneficiary. The provisions of this Agreement
and of the documents to be executed and delivered at Closing are and will be for
the benefit of Seller and Purchaser only and are not for the benefit of any
third party, and accordingly, no third party shall have the right to enforce the
provisions of this Agreement or of the documents to be executed and delivered at
Closing.

     Section 10.13 Captions. The section headings appearing in this Agreement
are for convenience of reference only and are not intended, to any extent and
for any purpose, to limit or define the text of any section or any subsection
hereof.

     Section 10.14 Construction. The parties acknowledge that the parties and
their counsel have reviewed and revised this Agreement and that the normal rule
of construction to the effect that any ambiguities are to be resolved against
the drafting party shall not be employed in the interpretation of this Agreement
or any exhibits or amendments hereto.

     Section 10.15 Recordation. This Agreement may not be recorded by any party
hereto. The provisions of this Section 10.15 shall survive the Closing or any
termination of this Agreement.

     Section 10.16 Audit Rights and Tenant Reconciliation Statements. For a
period of three (3) years after the Closing, Purchaser shall allow Seller and
its agents and representatives access without charge to (i) all files, records,
and documents delivered to Purchaser at the Closing, and (ii) the financial
records and financial statements for the Property (including but not limited to,
financial records and financial statements related to the Reconciliation
Statements, as such term is hereinafter defined) for the calendar year in which
the Closing occurs and for the calendar year preceding the calendar year in
which the Closing occurs, upon reasonable advance notice and at all reasonable
times, to examine and to make copies of any and all such files, records,
documents, and statements, which right shall survive the Closing. Purchaser
shall prepare and provide to the tenants under the Leases (other than the Net
Lease) a statement of the reconciliation of expenses between the landlord and
the tenants under the Leases in accordance with the terms of the Leases (the
"Reconciliation Statements"), and Purchaser shall provide Seller with copies of
the Reconciliation Statements at the same time that they are furnished to the
tenants. If amounts are due from any tenants based on the Reconciliation
Statements, Purchaser shall make a good faith effort after Closing to collect
the same in the usual course of Purchaser's operation of the Property, and upon
collection, to remit to Seller, Seller's share of those amounts in accordance
with the terms of Section 4.4 hereof; however, Purchaser shall not be obligated
to institute any lawsuit or other collection procedures to collect said amounts.
Seller may attempt to collect amounts due to it pursuant to the reconciliation
of expenses between the landlord and the tenants in accordance with the terms of
the Leases, and Seller may institute any lawsuit or collection procedures, but
Seller may not evict any tenant after Closing. The provisions of this Section
10.16 shall survive the Closing.

                                       28

Section 10.17. Termination of Agreement. If this Agreement is terminated by
Purchaser or Seller in accordance with any of the provisions of this Agreement
that give Purchaser or Seller the right to terminate this Agreement, then
neither party shall have any further rights or obligations hereunder (except for
indemnity obligations of either party pursuant to the other provisions of this
Agreement) and the Deposit shall be returned to Purchaser and each party shall
bear its own costs incurred hereunder.

     Section 10.18. 1031 Exchange. Purchaser agrees to reasonably cooperate with
Seller (without liability or cost to Purchaser) in Seller's efforts to
consummate the sale of the Property in a manner which qualifies as a so-called
"deferred" or "like-kind" exchange pursuant to Section 1031 of the Internal
Revenue Code for Seller, or any affiliate thereof (a "Seller 1031 Exchange").
Such cooperation shall include, without limitation, acquiring the Property or
any portion thereof or interest therein from a qualified intermediary, Seller
assigning all or any portion of its rights and/or obligations under this
Agreement to a qualified intermediary and Purchaser paying all or any portion of
the Purchase Price to a qualified intermediary. Seller shall be responsible for
all costs and expenses related to a Seller 1031 Exchange and shall fully
indemnify, defend and hold Purchaser harmless from and against any and all
liability, claims, damages, expenses (including, without limitation, reasonable
attorneys' fees other than those incurred prior to Closing to review documents
to facilitate the Seller 1031 Exchange), taxes, fees, proceedings and causes of
action of any kind or nature whatsoever arising out of, connected with or in any
manner related to such Seller 1031 Exchange. The provisions of the immediately
preceding sentence shall survive Closing and the transfer of the Property to
Purchaser.

     Seller agrees to reasonably cooperate with Purchaser (without liability or
cost to Seller) in connection with the acquisition of all or a portion of the
Property by Purchaser or a designee permitted pursuant to Section 10.3 hereof as
part of a "deferred" or "like-kind" exchange pursuant to Section 1031 of the
Internal Revenue Code (a "Purchaser 1031Exchange"). Purchaser shall be
responsible for all costs and expenses related to a Purchaser 1031 Exchange and
shall fully indemnify, defend and hold Seller harmless from and against any and
all liability, claims, damages, expenses (including, without limitation,
reasonable attorneys' fees to facilitate the Purchaser 1031 Exchange), taxes,
fees, proceedings and causes of action of any kind or nature whatsoever arising
out of, connected with or in any manner related to such Purchaser 1031 Exchange.
The provisions of the immediately preceding sentence shall survive Closing and
the transfer of the Property to Purchaser.

     Section 10.19. One Madison Avenue Address. Purchaser covenants that it will
not change or seek to change the street address of the South Building, or permit
the street address of the South Building to be changed or modified, to anything
other than "One Madison Avenue" and the Deed shall contain a provision
evidencing such restriction. The obligations of Purchaser in this Section shall
survive the Closing.

     Section 10.20. MetLife Lease. It is understood and agreed between the
parties that from and after the Closing Seller will be leasing approximately 150
rentable square feet on the 11th Floor of the South Building pursuant to a lease
between Purchaser, as landlord, and Seller, as tenant, in substantially the form
and substance of Exhibit S attached hereto and made a part hereof (the "MetLife
Lease"). At the Closing Purchaser and Seller shall execute and deliver to each
other the MetLife Lease.

                                       29

Section 10.21. Industrial and Commercial Incentive Program. Seller hereby
notifies Purchaser that Seller has previously applied for the benefits provided
by Sections 11-256 through 11-267 of the Administrative Code of the City of New
York, authorized by Title 2-D of Article 4 of the New York Real Property Tax Law
and all rules and regulations promulgated thereunder (herein collectively called
the "Industrial and Commercial Incentive Program" or the "ICIP Program"). The
New York City Department of Finance determined that the renovations made by
Seller did not result in an assessable increase which would be subject to the
benefits of the ICIP Program. No representation is made by Seller as to the
availability of any reduction in real estate taxes as a result of the ICIP
Program and there will be no adjustment in the Purchase Price hereunder as a
result of the lack of benefits from the ICIP Program. Purchaser agrees to take
any action it deems appropriate with respect to the ICIP Program at its own cost
and expense.

     Section 10.22. Transfer Fee.

          (A) As additional consideration for the conveyance of the Property,
     Purchaser shall pay to Seller 25% of the Net Gain on any Transfer that
     occurs from and after the Closing Date to the first anniversary of the
     Closing Date, as follows:

          (i)  "Transfer" includes (a) any direct or indirect transfer of any
               direct or indirect interest in all or part of the Property or of
               Purchaser, (b) any transaction which causes ultimate beneficial
               ownership of all or any part of the Property or Purchaser to
               change, and (c) any option or similar contract which allows the
               holder to effectuate a Transfer by payment of consideration
               within twelve (12) months after its issuance. The term "Transfer"
               does not include any of the foregoing to an Affiliated Party (as
               hereinafter defined), and does not include (1) any mortgage loan
               or mezzanine loan made substantially on institutional loan terms
               or any preferred equity investment in Purchaser, (2) the sale or
               transfer of the Tower or any direct or indirect interest in
               Purchaser (or the entity acquiring fee title to the Units
               comprising the Tower in accordance with Section 10.3) in
               connection with the development and/or subsequent conversion of
               the Tower into a residential condominium and the subsequent sale
               of units of such condominium, (3) any sale of securities in
               either Green, Gramercy Capital Corp., a publicly traded company
               which as of the date hereof is 25% owned by Green ("Gramercy") or
               Column, or any Affiliated Party thereof or (4) the merger,
               consolidation or the transfer of all or substantially all of the
               assets of either Green, Gramercy or Column. As used herein, an
               Affiliated Party shall mean any party which is either (x) Green,
               or any affiliate of Green, (y) Gramercy, or any affiliate of
               Gramercy, or (z) Column, or any affiliate of Column. An
               "affiliate" for purposes of this Section means, when used with
               reference to a specified party, any person or entity that
               directly or indirectly controls, or is controlled by, or is under
               common control with the specified party.

          (ii) A Transfer shall be deemed to have occurred upon the delivery of
               a deed, assignment, stock purchase agreement, merger certificate
               or other evidence

                                       30

of such Transfer to the transferee or its agent or designee and
               payment of consideration therefor. A Transfer pursuant to an
               option or similar contract described in item (A)(i)(c) above
               shall be deemed to have occurred upon the exercise of the
               applicable option, the delivery (if applicable) of a deed,
               assignment or other evidence of such Transfer to the transferee
               or its agent or designee and payment of consideration therefor.

         (iii) "Net Gain" with respect to any asset or interest subject to a
               Transfer is the excess, as of the date of such Transfer, of (a)
               the fair market value of the gross consideration (including,
               without limitation, cash and all other property, notes,
               securities, contracts, and instruments) given to or for the
               benefit of Purchaser or any direct or indirect holder of an
               interest in Purchaser (other than the sale of stock in any
               publicly held company) or the Property in connection with the
               Transfer of such asset or interest over (b) the sum of (1) all
               reasonable Transfer expenses, such as legal fees, brokerage
               commissions, transfer taxes, recording fees, and other fees for
               customary transfer services paid to parties unrelated to
               Purchaser, the transferor, and the transferee in connection with
               the Transfer of such asset or interest, plus (2) the product of
               the Cost Percentage indicated below for such asset or interest
               multiplied by the Purchase Price, plus (3) the unamortized
               portion of any additional capitalized or expensed investment
               fully paid by Purchaser (as evidenced to the reasonable
               satisfaction of Seller) after the Closing Date and prior to the
               Transfer which is attributable to such asset or interest.

          (iv) For purposes of this Section 10.22, the "Cost Percentages" for
               each of the portions of the Property shall be as set forth in the
               Deeds for the South Building and the Tower, or if separate Deeds
               are not delivered, shall be based upon values of 802 and 116,
               respectively (South Building: Tower). To the extent that, rather
               than a transfer of the South Building or the Tower, the
               applicable Transfer relates to an interest in the South Building
               and/or the Tower, the Cost Percentage will be the applicable
               percentage based upon the portion of the Property directly or
               indirectly represented by such interest. If the entire Property
               or all of the ownership interests in Purchaser are the subject of
               a Transfer, the Cost Percentage shall be one hundred percent
               (100%). If the interest subject to a Transfer represents less
               than one hundred percent of the ownership interest in Purchaser,
               the applicable Cost Percentage for such Transfer shall be equal
               to the percentage of ownership interest being transferred.

          (B) The additional consideration payable by Purchaser to Seller under
     this Section 10.22 shall be due and payable by wire transfer of immediately
     available funds (to an account designated by Seller) within ten (10) days
     after the date the Transfer occurs, whether or not the gross consideration
     given in connection for Transfer is in cash or non-cash form.

                                       31

(C) Any dispute arising from or in any way relating to this Section
     10.22, including breach thereof, shall be determined in a federal or state
     court in the City of New York, to which Purchaser and Seller hereby submit
     for jurisdiction; provided, that by written notice to Purchaser given
     within twenty (20) days after Seller has been served with a complaint which
     has been filed in court, Seller may in its sole and absolute discretion
     cause such dispute to be resolved instead by expedited arbitration in
     accord with the Commercial Arbitration Rules for Expedited Procedures of
     the American Arbitration Association by a single arbitrator who is
     appointed by the President of the Real Estate Board of New York and has no
     affiliation with any party to such dispute.

          (D) The provisions of this Section 10.22 shall survive Closing.

     Section 10.23. Joint and Several Liability. Each of the entities comprising
Purchaser shall be jointly and severally liable for all the obligations of
Purchaser under this Agreement.

                         [NO FURTHER TEXT ON THIS PAGE]

                                       32

IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto have duly executed this Agreement as
of the Effective Date.

SELLER:

METROPOLITAN LIFE INSURANCE COMPANY
a New York corporation

By: /s/ Kevin Thorwarth
    ----------------------------
Name:  Kevin Thorwarth
Title: Managing Director

PURCHASER:
1 MADISON VENTURE  LLC
a Delaware limited liability company

By: /s/ Marc Holliday
    ----------------------------
Name:  Marc Holliday
Title: President

            and

COLUMN FINANCIAL, INC.
A Delaware corporation

By: /s/ Mason Sleeper
    ----------------------------
Name:  Mason Sleeper
Title: Vice President

Escrow Agent executes this Agreement below solely for the purpose of
acknowledging that it agrees to be bound by the provisions of Sections 1.5 and
1.6 hereof.

ESCROW AGENT:

JP Morgan Chase Bank, N.A.
---------------------------

a -------------------------

By: /s/ Jason M. Orben
    -----------------------
Name:  Jason M. Orben
Title: Vice President

33

</EX-10.97>

<EX-10.98>
 30
 y87657exv10w98.txt
 EX-10.98

Exhibit 10.98

                                METLIFE BUILDING
                          200 PARK AVENUE, NEW YORK, NY

                                  PURCHASE AND

                                 SALE AGREEMENT

                                     BETWEEN

                   METROPOLITAN TOWER LIFE INSURANCE COMPANY,
                             a Delaware corporation,

                                   AS SELLER,

                                       AND

                       TISHMAN SPEYER DEVELOPMENT, L.L.C.,
                      a Delaware limited liability company,

                                  AS PURCHASER

                               As of April 1, 2005

PURCHASE AND SALE AGREEMENT

            This PURCHASE AND SALE AGREEMENT (this "AGREEMENT") is made as of
April 1, 2005 (the "EFFECTIVE DATE"), by and between METROPOLITAN TOWER LIFE
INSURANCE COMPANY, a Delaware corporation ("SELLER") and TISHMAN SPEYER
DEVELOPMENT, L.L.C., a Delaware limited liability company ("PURCHASER").

                                   WITNESSETH:

                                    ARTICLE I

                                PURCHASE AND SALE

      SECTION 1.1 Agreement of Purchase and Sale. Subject to the terms and
conditions hereinafter set forth, Seller agrees to sell and convey to Purchaser,
and Purchaser agrees to purchase from Seller, the following:

            (a) that certain tract or parcel of land situated in New York
County, New York, more particularly described in Exhibit A attached hereto and
made a part hereof, together with all rights and appurtenances pertaining to
such property, including any right, title and interest of Seller in and to
adjacent streets, alleys or rights-of-way (the property described in clause (a)
of this Section 1.1 being herein referred to collectively as the "LAND");

            (b) the building (the "BUILDING") structures, fixtures and other
improvements affixed to or located on the Land, excluding fixtures owned by
tenants (the property described in clause (b) of this Section 1.1 being herein
referred to collectively as the "IMPROVEMENTS");

            (c) excepting only those items of personal property more
particularly identified on Exhibit B-1 attached hereto and all items of personal
property owned by Seller or any affiliate thereof as tenant pursuant to any of
the Leases (as hereinafter defined), any and all of Seller's right, title and
interest in and to all tangible personal property located upon the Land or
within the Improvements, including, without limitation, any and all appliances,
furniture, carpeting, draperies and curtains, tools and supplies, plans,
specifications, drawings, books and building records and other items of personal
property owned by Seller (excluding cash and any software), located on and used
exclusively in connection with the operation of the Land and the Improvements,
which personal property includes without limitation the personal property listed
on Exhibit B attached hereto (the property described in clause (c) of this
Section 1.1 being herein referred to collectively as the "PERSONAL PROPERTY");

            (d) excepting only Seller's interest, if any, as tenant under any
Leases and the interest of any affiliate of Seller, as tenant, under any Leases,
any and all of Seller's right, title and interest in and to the leases, licenses
and occupancy agreements and amendments thereof and any guarantees thereof,
covering all or any portion of the Real Property (as defined in Section 1.3
hereof), (the property described in clause (d) of this Section 1.1 being herein
referred to collectively

as the "LEASES"), together with all rents, reimbursements of real estate taxes
and operating expenses, and other sums due thereunder (the "RENTS") and any and
all security deposits in connection therewith, including letters of credit (the
"SECURITY DEPOSITS");

            (e) any and all of Seller's right, title and interest in and to (i)
all assignable contracts and agreements (collectively, the "OPERATING
AGREEMENTS") listed and described on Exhibit C attached hereto and made a part
hereof, relating to the upkeep, repair, maintenance or operation of the Land,
Improvements or Personal Property, and (ii) all assignable existing warranties
and guaranties (express or implied) issued to Seller in connection with the
Improvements or the Personal Property, and (iii) all assignable existing
permits, licenses, approvals, authorizations and certificates of occupancy
issued by any governmental authority in connection with the Property (the
property described in clause (e) of this Section 1.1 being sometimes herein
referred to collectively as the "INTANGIBLES"); and

            (f) such right, title and interest, if any, Seller may have in and
to that certain grant of term dated October 29, 1959, recorded in the Office of
the Register of the City of New York, County of New York, in Liber 5123 cp 235,
as amended by Agreement dated April 19, 1961, recorded in said Office in Liber
5151, cp 676 and by Agreement dated as of June 15, 1963 recorded in said Office
in Liber 5244, cp 402 (the "GRANT OF TERM"); and that certain Agreement of Lease
dated as of October 30, 1959, a memorandum of which was recorded in said Office
in Liber 5104, cp 598, as amended by certain Agreements dated as of June 27,
1960, April 19, 1961 and June 4, 1963, which were recorded in said Office in
Liber 5152, cp 16, Liber 5152, cp 1 and Liber 5244, cp 410, respectively (the
"PRIME LEASE"); (the Grant of Term and Prime Lease being sometimes herein
referred to collectively as the "GROUND LEASE").

      SECTION 1.2 Reservation of Existing Signs. It is expressly agreed by the
parties hereto that Seller does except from the sale of the Property hereunder
and reserve to and for the benefit of itself and its successors and assigns, all
signs, sign panels, logos, names, insignias and other identifying symbols and
marks that, as of the date hereof, name, identify, signify, or otherwise pertain
or refer to MetLife, Met Life and the MetLife Building 200 Park Avenue and the
conduits, equipment, utility lines and facilities and appurtenances serving,
supplying, benefiting and securing the same in place (collectively the "Existing
Signs") including specifically, without limitation, the illuminated signs, logos
and insignias located near the top of each of the exterior facades of the
Building, all as more particularly described and illustrated on Exhibit A-1
attached hereto. It is further acknowledged by the parties hereto, that Seller
shall (or has) retained and/or granted, conveyed and assigned all right, title
and interest in and to any and all such Existing Signs, together with all
rights, reservations and easements to use, repair, replace, illuminate, modify
and assign same, all as more particularly described in, and pursuant to, that
certain perpetual easement to be contained in and reserved to and for the
benefit of Seller and its successors and assigns in the Deed; as the same may be
hereinafter assigned pursuant to the terms thereof.

      SECTION 1.3 Property Defined. The Land and the Improvements are
hereinafter sometimes referred to collectively as the "REAL PROPERTY." The Land,
the Improvements, the Ground Lease, the Personal Property, the Leases and the
Intangibles are hereinafter sometimes referred to collectively as the
"PROPERTY."

SECTION 1.4 Purchase Price. Seller is to sell and Purchaser is to purchase
the Property for the amount of ONE BILLION SEVEN HUNDRED TWENTY MILLION and
00/100 DOLLARS ($1,720,000,000.00) (the "PURCHASE PRICE").

      SECTION 1.5 Payment of Purchase Price. The Purchase Price, as increased or
decreased by prorations and adjustments as herein provided, shall be payable in
full at Closing in cash by wire transfer of immediately available funds to the
bank account or accounts designated by Seller in writing to Purchaser prior to
the Closing.

      SECTION 1.6 Deposit. Concurrently with the execution and delivery of this
Agreement, Purchaser has deposited in escrow with JP Morgan Chase Bank, N.A.
(the "ESCROW AGENT"), having its office at c/o New York Escrow Services, 4 New
York Plaza, 21st Floor, New York, New York 10004 (ABA No: 021-000-021; Account
Number: 507955013), the sum of ONE HUNDRED MILLION and 00/100 DOLLARS
($100,000,000.00) (such sum, together with any and all interest earned thereon,
the "DEPOSIT") in good funds, either by certified bank or cashier's check or by
federal wire transfer. The Escrow Agent shall hold the Deposit in an
interest-bearing account reasonably acceptable to Seller and Purchaser, in
accordance with the terms and conditions of this Agreement. All interest earned
on the Deposit shall become a part of the Deposit, shall be credited against the
balance of the Purchase Price due from Purchaser at Closing, and shall be deemed
income of Purchaser. Purchaser and Seller shall each be responsible for the
payment of one-half of all costs and fees imposed on the Deposit account. The
Deposit shall be distributed in accordance with the terms of this Agreement. The
failure of Purchaser to timely deliver any Deposit hereunder shall be a material
default, and shall entitle Seller, at Seller's sole option, to terminate this
Agreement immediately.

      SECTION 1.7 Escrow Agent. Escrow Agent shall hold and dispose of the
Deposit in accordance with the terms of this Agreement. Seller and Purchaser
agree that the duties of the Escrow Agent hereunder are purely ministerial in
nature and shall be expressly limited to the safekeeping and disposition of the
Deposit in accordance with this Agreement. Escrow Agent shall incur no liability
in connection with the safekeeping or disposition of the Deposit for any reason
other than Escrow Agent's willful misconduct or gross negligence. In the event
that Escrow Agent shall be in doubt as to its duties or obligations with regard
to the Deposit, or in the event that Escrow Agent receives conflicting
instructions from Purchaser and Seller with respect to the Deposit, Escrow Agent
shall not disburse the Deposit and shall, at its option, continue to hold the
Deposit until both Purchaser and Seller agree in writing as to its disposition
or until a final judgment is entered by a court of competent jurisdiction
directing its disposition, or Escrow Agent shall interplead the Deposit in
accordance with the laws of the state in which the Property is located.

            Escrow Agent shall not be responsible for any interest on the
Deposit except as is actually earned, or for the loss of any interest resulting
from the withdrawal of the Deposit prior to the date interest is posted thereon
or for any loss caused by the failure, suspension, bankruptcy or dissolution of
the institution in which the Deposit is deposited.

Escrow Agent shall dispose of the Deposit in accordance with written
instructions jointly executed by both Seller and Purchaser or as directed by
order of a court of competent jurisdiction.

            Escrow Agent shall execute this Agreement solely for the purpose of
being bound by the provisions of Sections 1.6 and 1.7 hereof.

                                   ARTICLE II

                                TITLE AND SURVEY

      SECTION 2.1 Title Inspection Period. Purchaser acknowledges and agrees
that (a) Seller has furnished to Purchaser prior to the Effective Date: (i) a
current preliminary title report dated January 24, 2005, ("Title Commitment")
issued by Chicago Title Insurance Company on the Real Property, accompanied by
copies of all documents referred to in the report; (ii) a copy of the land title
survey (the "Survey") prepared by Earl B. Lowell - S.P. Belcher, Inc. dated
August 19, 1963, as updated by visual inspection as of February 23, 2005, for
the Land and the Improvements; and (iii) copies of the most recent property tax
bills for the Property; (b) Purchaser has had an opportunity, prior to the
Effective Date, to order its own title report and survey for the Land and
Improvements; and (c) any and all matters (the " Existing Title, and Survey
Matters") referred to, reflected in or disclosed by, the materials referred to
in the Title Commitment (other than Exceptions numbered 32 through 57) and the
Survey, inclusive, have been agreed to and accepted by Purchaser and that, as of
the Effective Date, Purchaser has approved the Existing Title and Survey Matters
and the condition of title, including, without limitation, the Ground Lease, to
the Real Property, and the Existing Title and Survey Matters shall constitute
Permitted Exceptions.

      SECTION 2.2 Pre-Closing "Gap" Title Defects. Purchaser may, after the
Effective Date but prior to the Closing, notify Seller in writing (the "Gap
Notice") of any objections to title (a) raised by the Title Company between the
Effective Date and the Closing and (b) not disclosed by the Title Company or
otherwise known to Purchaser prior to the Effective Date; provided that
Purchaser must notify Seller of such objection to title within two (2) business
days of being made aware of the existence of such exception. If Purchaser issues
a Gap Notice to Seller, Seller shall have five (5) business days after receipt
of the Gap Notice to notify Purchaser (a) that Seller will remove such
objectionable exceptions from title on or before the Closing; provided that
Seller may extend the Closing for such period as shall be required to effect
such cure, but not beyond thirty (30) days; or (b) that Seller elects not to
cause such exceptions to be removed. The procurement by Seller of a commitment
for the issuance of the Title Policy (as defined in Section 2.5 hereof) or an
endorsement thereto (in form and substance reasonably acceptable to Purchaser)
insuring Purchaser against any title exception which was disapproved pursuant to
this Section 2.2 shall be deemed a cure by Seller of such disapproval. If Seller
gives Purchaser notice under clause (b) above, Purchaser
shall have five (5) business days in which to notify Seller that Purchaser will
nevertheless proceed with the purchase and to take title to the Property subject
to such exceptions, or that Purchaser will terminate this Agreement. If this
Agreement is terminated pursuant to the foregoing provisions of this paragraph,
then neither party shall have any further rights or obligations

hereunder (except for any indemnity obligations of either party pursuant to the
other provisions of this Agreement), the Deposit shall be returned to Purchaser
and each party shall bear its own costs incurred hereunder. If Purchaser shall
fail to notify Seller of its election within said five-day period, Purchaser
shall be deemed to have elected to proceed with the purchase and take title to
the Property subject to such exceptions. Notwithstanding anything to the
contrary contained in this Article II, Seller agrees that it shall at or prior
to Closing: (i) with respect to mechanics liens against the Property (unless the
same is the obligation of any tenant under any of the Leases), provided
Purchaser furnishes Seller with written notice of the same within five (5)
business days of Purchaser being made aware of the same, cure or remove the same
by bonding or by agreeing to execute and deliver to the Title Company such
documents in form, scope and substance satisfactory to Seller, that the Title
Company, in its reasonable discretion, may request or require in order to remove
from Schedule B of Purchaser's title insurance policy such mechanics or
materialmen liens; (ii) with respect to judgment liens against Seller or its
affiliates, Seller agrees to deliver to the Title Company, Seller's agreement to
indemnify the Title Company against the enforcement of such judgments against
the Property, or such other agreement of Seller as is mutually satisfactory to
Seller and the Title Company; (iii) cure or remove other defects in title to the
Property that can be cured or removed by the payment of a sum of money in a
liquidated amount that does not exceed, in the aggregate, Five Million and
00/100 Dollars ($5,000,000.00); and (iv) to remove encumbrances against the
Property willfully caused by Seller after the Effective Date; however nothing in
this paragraph shall be deemed or construed to imply that Seller has any
obligation to take any such action with respect to any of the Permitted
Exceptions (as hereinafter defined). Notwithstanding anything to the contrary
contained or implied in this Agreement, it is understood and agreed that Seller
shall not be required to bring any action or proceeding in order to cure or
remove any defects in or objections to title in the Property.

      SECTION 2.3 Permitted Exceptions. The Property shall be conveyed subject
to the following matters, which are hereinafter referred to as the "PERMITTED
EXCEPTIONS":

            (a) all liens, encumbrances, easements, covenants, conditions and
restrictions affecting the Property which are set forth in the Title Commitment
(other than Exceptions numbered 32 through 57) and not set forth in the Gap
Notice or if set forth in the Gap Notice, (x) are those which Seller has elected
not to remove or cure, or has been unable to remove or cure and (y) subject to
which Purchaser has elected to accept the conveyance of the Property;

            (b) those matters that either are not objected to in writing within
the time periods provided in Section 2.2 hereof, or if objected to in writing by
Purchaser, are those which Seller has elected not to remove or cure, or has been
unable to remove or cure, and subject to which Purchaser has elected or is
deemed to have elected to accept the conveyance of the Property;

            (c) the rights of tenants under the Leases;

            (d) the rights of the Seller and/or any affiliate thereof, as
tenant, under those certain Leases to be entered into between Seller and
Metropolitan Life Insurance Company for premises located on portions of the 12th
floor, 32nd floor, 40th floor, 57th floor and the 56th floor of the Building;

(e) all rights reserved to Seller and its successors and assigns
with respect to the Existing Signs as more particularly described in the Deed;

            (f) the lien of all ad valorem real estate taxes and assessments and
taxes and assessments levied against the Property resulting from its inclusion
in the Grand Central Partnership Business Improvement District, not yet due and
payable as of the date of Closing, subject to adjustment as herein provided;

            (g) local, state and federal laws, ordinances or governmental
regulations, including but not limited to, building and zoning laws, ordinances
and regulations, now or hereafter in effect relating to the Property;

            (h) items shown on the Survey and not objected to by Purchaser or
waived or deemed waived by Purchaser in accordance with Section 2.2 hereof.; and

            (i) the temporary certificate of occupancy for the Property.

      SECTION 2.4 Violations. Purchaser shall accept title to the Property
subject to any note or notices of violations of Law or municipal ordinances,
orders or requirements noted or issued by any governmental department having
jurisdiction over the Property, against or affecting the Property, or relating
to conditions thereat at the date hereof or the Closing.

      SECTION 2.5 Conveyance of Title. At Closing, Seller shall convey and
transfer to Purchaser fee simple title to the Land and Improvements, by
execution and delivery of the Deed (as defined in Section 4.2(a) hereof). If at
the Closing there shall be any liens, encumbrances or charges effecting title
which are not permitted pursuant to this Agreement, Seller may, at Seller's
option, upon request from Seller to Purchaser, require Purchaser to apply such
portion of the Purchase Price as shall be necessary to discharge such liens,
encumbrances and charges and pay the recording fees for the same, and in such
event, Seller shall deliver to Purchaser instruments in recordable form
sufficient to discharge the same of record. Evidence of delivery of such title
shall be the issuance by Chicago Title Insurance Company (the "TITLE COMPANY"),
or another national title company, of a 1992 ALTA Owner's Policy of Title
Insurance (the "TITLE POLICY") covering the Real Property, in the full amount of
the Purchase Price, subject only to the Permitted Exceptions.

                                   ARTICLE III

REVIEW OF PROPERTY

      SECTION 3.1 Right of Inspection. Purchaser acknowledges and agrees that it
has had an opportunity prior to the Effective Date to make any and all physical,
environmental and other inspections of the Property as Purchaser has deemed
necessary and / or appropriate in connection with the transaction contemplated
by this Agreement, and that Purchaser has agreed, subject to the provisions of
Section 2.2 and Article VII hereof, to accept the Property at the Closing in the
condition that exists on the Effective Date, reasonable wear and tear excepted.
Purchaser further acknowledges and agrees that it has prior to the Effective
Date has had access to due diligence files made available on the website (via
peracom.com) for the Property and has had the opportunity to examine at the
Property (or the property manager's office, as the case may be) documents and
files located at the Property or the property manager's office concerning the
leasing, maintenance and operation of the Property (including without
limitation, copies of permits, licenses, certificates of occupancy, plans and
specifications, and insurance certificates related to the Property, to the
extent in Seller's or the property manager's possession), but excluding Seller's
partnership or corporate records, internal memoranda, financial projections,
budgets, appraisals, accounting and tax records and similar proprietary,
confidential or privileged information (collectively, the "CONFIDENTIAL
DOCUMENTS").

      It is further agreed by the parties hereto that in no event shall
Purchaser provide any governmental entity or agency with information concerning
the environmental condition of the Property without first obtaining Seller's
prior written consent thereto, which Seller shall provide in the event that
Purchaser is required by applicable law to provide such information to a
governmental agency or entity.

      Purchaser agrees to protect, indemnify, defend and hold Seller harmless
from and against any claim for liabilities, losses, costs, expenses (including
reasonable attorneys' fees), damages or injuries arising out of or resulting
from the inspection of the Property at any time by Purchaser, its agents,
employees, representatives or consultants or any act or omission by Purchaser or
its agents, employees or consultants, and notwithstanding anything to the
contrary in this Agreement, such obligation to indemnify and hold harmless
Seller shall survive Closing or any termination of this Agreement.

      SECTION 3.2 (a) Property Reports. PURCHASER ACKNOWLEDGES THAT PRIOR TO THE
EFFECTIVE DATE (1) PURCHASER HAS RECEIVED COPIES OF THE ENVIRONMENTAL AND OTHER
REPORTS LISTED ON EXHIBIT D ATTACHED HERETO AND HAS HAD MADE AVAILABLE TO IT BY
SELLER OTHER PROPERTY REPORTS IN SELLER'S POSSESSION, AS MORE PARTICULARLY
LISTED ON EXHIBIT D-1 ATTACHED HERETO, (COLLECTIVELY, THE "PROPERTY REPORTS")
(2) IF SELLER DELIVERS ANY ADDITIONAL ENVIRONMENTAL REPORTS TO PURCHASER,
PURCHASER WILL ACKNOWLEDGE IN WRITING THAT IT HAS RECEIVED SUCH REPORTS PROMPTLY
UPON RECEIPT THEREOF, AND (3) ANY PROPERTY REPORTS DELIVERED OR TO BE DELIVERED
BY SELLER OR MADE AVAILABLE BY SELLER OR ITS AGENTS OR CONSULTANTS TO PURCHASER
ARE BEING MADE AVAILABLE SOLELY AS AN ACCOMMODATION TO PURCHASER AND MAY NOT BE
RELIED UPON BY PURCHASER IN CONNECTION WITH THE PURCHASE OF THE PROPERTY.

PURCHASER AGREES THAT SELLER SHALL HAVE NO LIABILITY OR OBLIGATION WHATSOEVER
FOR ANY INACCURACY IN OR OMISSION FROM ANY PROPERTY REPORT. PURCHASER
ACKNOWLEDGES AND AGREES THAT IT HAS PRIOR TO THE EFFECTIVE DATE CONDUCTED ITS
OWN INVESTIGATION OF THE ENVIRONMENTAL, STRUCTURAL, ARCHITECTURAL, MECHANICAL
AND PHYSICAL CONDITION OF THE PROPERTY TO THE EXTENT PURCHASER DEEMED SUCH AN
INVESTIGATION TO BE NECESSARY OR APPROPRIATE AND PURCHASER HAS APPROVED OF THE
PHYSICAL AND ENVIRONMENTAL CONDITION OF THE PROPERTY AS OF THE EFFECTIVE DATE.
THE PROVISIONS OF THIS SECTION SHALL SURVIVE THE CLOSING OR OTHER TERMINATION OF
THIS AGREEMENT.

      (b) Reliance Letters. At Purchaser's request, Seller agrees to request in
writing that such consultants who have issued a Property Report addressed to
Seller provide a Reliance Letter to Purchaser.

      SECTION 3.3 Review of Tenant Estoppels. Seller shall deliver copies of
completed estoppel certificates in substantially the form of Exhibit E attached
hereto (the "Tenant Estoppels"), that meet the tenant estoppel standards
hereinafter described, to Purchaser on the Effective Date, and thereafter, as
Seller receives them but in any event, no later than three (3) days prior to the
Closing. Purchaser shall notify Seller in writing within three (3) business days
of receipt of any Tenant Estoppel in the event Purchaser determines such Tenant
Estoppel is not acceptable to Purchaser along with the reasons for such
determination; however it is understood and agreed that any Tenant Estoppel
shall not be deemed or determined to be unacceptable if in the form attached as
Exhibit E or in the form required by the applicable Lease unless it (i)
identifies a material default under the applicable Lease not previously
disclosed to Purchaser or (ii) discloses material discrepancies between the
Tenant Estoppel and the terms of the applicable Lease made available to
Purchaser. In the event Purchaser fails to give such notice within such three
(3) business day period then any such Tenant Estoppel shall be deemed to be
acceptable to Purchaser.

      In the event that Seller fails to obtain the Tenant Estoppels that are
satisfactory or deemed satisfactory to Purchaser with respect to tenants of the
Property that meet the tenant estoppel standards described (or in lieu thereof,
at Seller's option, Seller's estoppels therefor) on Exhibit F attached hereto,
on or before three (3) days prior to Closing, Purchaser shall have the right to
terminate this Agreement by written notice to Seller. Notwithstanding the
immediately succeeding sentence hereof, if Purchaser has not received the Tenant
Estoppels by the third day prior to the Closing, Seller shall have the right to
extend the Closing for up to five (5) business days so that Seller may determine
whether the Tenant Estoppels can be provided during such extended period. If
Seller exercises the right to extend the Closing and if the Tenant Estoppels are
not provided within such five (5) business day period or if same are received
but same are not satisfactory to Purchaser, for the reasons permitted under this
Agreement, Purchaser shall have the right to terminate this Agreement by written
notice to Seller upon the expiration of such five (5) business day period. If
this Agreement is terminated pursuant to the foregoing provisions of this
paragraph, then neither party shall have any further rights or obligations
hereunder (except for any indemnity obligations of either party pursuant to the
other provisions of this Agreement), the Deposit shall be returned to Purchaser
and each party shall bear its own costs incurred hereunder. If Purchaser fails
to give Seller a notice of termination as set forth above, Purchaser shall be
deemed to have

approved the Tenant Estoppels and to have elected to proceed with the purchase
of the Property pursuant to the terms hereof.

      Notwithstanding the foregoing, Seller shall have, with respect to up to
three (3) Major Tenants (as defined on Exhibit F) and any other tenant only, the
option to provide its own estoppel in the form of Exhibit E-1 attached hereto in
lieu of any required Tenant Estoppel which Seller fails to obtain (the "Seller
Estoppel Form"). In the event that such option is exercised, at least three (3)
business days prior to the Closing, Seller shall deliver to Purchaser the Seller
Estoppel Form or Forms that Seller intends to execute for each tenant for whom a
Tenant Estoppel has not been received with all blanks filled in and information
inserted therein.

      The representations and warranties set forth in any Seller Estoppel Form
shall survive the Closing for a period of one hundred eighty (180) days after
the Closing and Seller's liability to Purchaser for a breach of any
representation or warranty set forth in any Seller Estoppel Form shall be equal
to the Seller's Estoppel Cap (as hereinafter defined) and shall not be subject
to the Cap limitations of Section 5.4 hereof. As used herein, "Seller's Estoppel
Cap" shall mean (a) Ten Million and 00/100 Dollars ($10,000,000.00) in the
aggregate. Any Tenant Estoppel which is received from a tenant after Seller
provides its own estoppel may be substituted for Seller's Estoppel Form and
Seller shall have no further liability thereunder, provided that such Tenant
Estoppel contains no changes or, if changed, is otherwise reasonably acceptable
to Purchaser. The provisions of this Section 3.3 shall survive the Closing.

      SECTION 3.4 Union Employees. Purchaser shall be obligated to and hereby
agrees to continue to employ, or cause its property manager or cleaning
contractor to continue to employ, after the Closing, union employees employed at
the Property as of the Closing, which includes without limitation, the employees
referenced on Exhibit S attached hereto and made a part hereof. The terms of the
immediately preceding sentence shall survive Closing. At the Closing, Purchaser
shall join with Seller in executing notices pursuant to the union contracts
referred to on Exhibit T hereto, substantially in form of Exhibit U attached
hereto and made a part hereof, which Purchaser shall send to such party or
parties identified in such notices.

                                   ARTICLE IV

                                     CLOSING

      SECTION 4.1 Time and Place. The consummation of the transaction
contemplated hereby (the "CLOSING") shall be held at the offices of Seller,
subject to Seller's option as hereinafter described. Purchaser acknowledges that
it is a material condition to the obligations of Purchaser under this Agreement
that the Closing occur not later than May 4, 2005. Purchaser, subject to the
second paragraph of Section 3.4, Section 2.2 and Article VII hereof, shall not
be entitled to any adjournment of the Closing beyond May 10, 2005, time being of
the essence as to the performance of Purchaser's obligations hereunder by such
date. At the Closing, Seller and Purchaser shall perform the obligations set
forth in, respectively, Section 4.2 and Section 4.3 hereof, the performance of
which obligations shall be concurrent conditions; provided that the Deed and the
Assignment of Ground Lease shall not be recorded until Seller receives
confirmation that Seller has received the full amount of the Purchase Price,
adjusted by prorations as set forth herein. At

Seller's option, the Closing shall be consummated through an escrow administered
by Escrow Agent pursuant to additional escrow instructions that are consistent
with this Agreement. In such event, the Purchase Price and all documents shall
be deposited with the Escrow Agent as escrowee.

      SECTION 4.2 Seller's Obligations at Closing. At Closing, Seller shall:

            (a) deliver to Purchaser a duly executed Bargain And Sale Deed
Without Covenants Against Grantor's Acts (the "DEED") which shall contain the
covenant required by Section 13 of the New York Lien Law, in the form attached
hereto as Exhibit G, conveying the Land and Improvements, subject only to the
Permitted Exceptions and expressly reserving in favor of Seller, its successors
and assigns, the easement rights contained therein. Seller shall omit from the
Deed the recital of any or all of the "subject to" clauses herein contained
and/or any other title exceptions, defects or objections, other than that
certain Distinctive Sidewalk Improvement and Maintenance Agreement dated
06/03/1991, which have been waived by Purchaser in accordance with the terms of
this Agreement or consented to in writing by Purchaser, but the same shall
nevertheless survive delivery of the Deed. The terms of the immediately
preceding sentence shall survive the Closing;

            (b) deliver to Purchaser a duly executed bill of sale (the "BILL OF
SALE") conveying the Personal Property without warranty of title or use and
without warranty, express or implied, as to merchantability and fitness for any
purpose and in the form attached hereto as Exhibit H;

            (c) assign to Purchaser, and Purchaser shall assume the
landlord/lessor interest in and to the Leases, Rents and Security Deposits, and
any and all obligations to pay leasing commissions and finder's fees with
respect to the Leases and amendments, renewals and expansions thereof, to the
extent provided in Section 4.4(c)(v) hereof, by duly executed assignment and
assumption agreement (the "ASSIGNMENT OF LEASES") in the form attached hereto as
Exhibit I pursuant to which (i) Seller shall indemnify Purchaser and hold
Purchaser harmless from and against any and all claims pertaining thereto
arising prior to Closing and (ii) Purchaser shall indemnify Seller and hold
Seller harmless from and against any and all claims pertaining thereto arising
from and after the Closing (including without limitation, claims made by tenants
with respect to tenants' Security Deposits to the extent actually paid, credited
or delivered to Purchaser) as provided therein;

            (d) assign to Purchaser, and Purchaser shall assume such right,
title, and interest, if any, Seller may have in the landlord/lessor interest in
and to the Grant of Term and assign to Purchaser, and Purchaser shall assume,
such right, title and interest, if any, Seller may have in the tenant/lessee
interest in and to the Prime Lease by duly executed Quitclaim Assignment of
Grant of Term and Prime Lease in the form attached hereto as Exhibit R, pursuant
to which Purchaser shall indemnify Seller and hold Seller harmless from and
against any and all claims pertaining thereto arising from and after the
Closing;

            (e) to the extent assignable, assign to Purchaser, or cause to be
assigned to Purchaser, and Purchaser shall assume, Seller's and/or Seller's
property manager's interest in the Operating Agreements and the other
Intangibles by duly executed assignment and assumption

agreement (the "ASSIGNMENT OF CONTRACTS") in the form attached hereto as Exhibit
J pursuant to which (i) Seller shall indemnify Purchaser and hold Purchaser
harmless from and against any and all claims pertaining thereto arising prior to
Closing, and (ii) Purchaser shall indemnify Seller and hold Seller harmless from
and against any and all claims pertaining thereto arising from and after the
Closing;

            (f) join with Purchaser to execute a notice (the "TENANT NOTICE") in
the form attached hereto as Exhibit K, which Purchaser shall send to each tenant
under each of the Leases promptly after the Closing, informing such tenant of
the sale of the Property and of the assignment to Purchaser of Seller's interest
in, and obligations under, the Leases (including, if applicable, any Security
Deposits), and directing that all Rent and other sums payable after the Closing
under each such Lease be paid as set forth in the Tenant Notice;

            (g) join with Purchaser to execute a notice (the "OPERATING NOTICE")
in a form reasonably acceptable to Purchaser and Seller, which Purchaser shall
send to each party under each of those Operating Agreements which are assigned
to Purchaser, promptly after the Closing, informing such party of the sale of
the Property and of the assignment to Purchaser of Seller's interest in, and
obligations under, the Operating Agreements;

            (h) In the event that any representation or warranty of Seller made
herein needs to be modified due to changes since the Effective Date, deliver to
Purchaser a certificate, dated as of the date of Closing and executed on behalf
of Seller by a duly authorized officer thereof, identifying any representation
or warranty which is not, or no longer is, true and correct and explaining the
state of facts giving rise to the change. In no event shall Seller be liable to
Purchaser for, or be deemed to be in default hereunder by reason of, any breach
of representation or warranty which results from any change that (i) occurs
between the Effective Date and the date of Closing and is expressly permitted
under the terms of this Agreement, (ii) occurs between the Effective Date and
the date of the Closing and is beyond the reasonable control of Seller to
prevent; or (iii) is discovered by Purchaser during the course of any
inspections of the Property prior to the Effective Date hereof, provided,
however, that the occurrence of a change which is not permitted hereunder or is
beyond the reasonable control of Seller to prevent shall, if materially adverse
to Purchaser, constitute the non-fulfillment of the condition set forth in
Section 4.6(b) hereof; if, despite changes or other matters described in such
certificate, the Closing occurs, Seller's representations and warranties set
forth in this Agreement shall be deemed to have been modified by all statements
made in such certificate;

            (i) deliver to Purchaser such evidence as the Title Company may
reasonably require as to the authority of the person or persons executing
documents on behalf of Seller;

            (j) deliver to Purchaser a certificate in the form attached hereto
as Exhibit L duly executed by Seller stating that Seller is not a "foreign
person" as defined in Section 1445 of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986 as
amended;

            (k) deliver to Purchaser originals (to the extent originals are in
Seller's or Seller's property manager's possession, or photocopies if originals
are not in Seller's or Seller's property manager's possession) of the Leases
(and the Security Deposits), Ground Lease and the

Operating Agreements, together with such leasing and property files, books and
records, licenses, permits, warranties and guaranties and keys, as are in
Seller's possession, in connection with the continued operation, leasing and
maintenance of the Property, but excluding any Confidential Documents;

            (l) deliver such affidavits as may be customarily and reasonably
required by the Title Company, in a form reasonably acceptable to Seller;

            (m) deliver to Purchaser possession and occupancy of the Property,
subject to the Permitted Exceptions;

            (n) execute a closing statement acceptable to Seller;

            (o) execute and deliver a direction letter to the Escrow Agent
authorizing release of the Deposit to Seller;

            (p) execute and deliver a Form TP-584 Combined Real Estate Transfer
Tax Return and Credit Line Mortgage Certificate, and a New York City Real
Property Transfer Tax Return, and such other returns and affidavits and
instruments required under any other tax laws applicable to the transactions
contemplated herein, together with payment of the amount of the transfer taxes
shown as due thereon; and

            (o) deliver such additional documents as shall be reasonably
required to consummate the transaction contemplated by this Agreement.

      SECTION 4.3 Purchaser's Obligations at Closing. At Closing, Purchaser
shall:

            (a) pay to Seller the full amount of the Purchase Price (which
amount shall include the Deposit), as increased or decreased by prorations and
adjustments as herein provided, in immediately available wire transferred funds
pursuant to Section 1.5 hereof;

            (b) join Seller in execution of the Assignment of Leases, Assignment
of Contracts, Assignment of Grant of Term and Prime Lease, the Deed and Tenant
Notices;

            (c) In the event that any representation or warranty of Purchaser
set forth herein needs to be modified due to changes since the Effective Date,
deliver to Seller a certificate, dated as of the date of Closing and executed on
behalf of Purchaser by a duly authorized representative thereof, identifying any
such representation or warranty which is not, or no longer is, true and correct
and explaining the state of facts giving rise to the change. In no event shall
Purchaser be liable to Seller for, or be deemed to be in default hereunder by
reason of, any breach of representation or warranty set forth in Sections 5.5(a)
or (b) hereof which results from any change that (i) occurs between the
Effective Date and the date of Closing and is expressly permitted under the
terms of this Agreement, or (ii) occurs between the Effective Date and the date
of the Closing and is beyond the reasonable control of Purchaser to prevent;
provided, however, that the occurrence of a change which is not permitted
hereunder or is beyond the reasonable control of Purchaser to prevent shall, if
materially adverse to Seller, constitute the

non-fulfillment of the condition set forth in Section 4.7(c) hereof; if, despite
changes or other matters described in such certificate, the Closing occurs,
Purchaser's representations and warranties set forth in this Agreement shall be
deemed to have been modified by all statements made in such certificate;

            (d) deliver to Seller such evidence as the Title Company may
reasonably require as to the authority of the person or persons executing
documents on behalf of Purchaser;

            (e) deliver such affidavits as may be customarily and reasonably
required by the Title Company, in a form reasonably acceptable to Purchaser;

            (f) execute a closing statement reasonably acceptable to Purchaser;

            (g) execute and deliver to Seller and as required pursuant to
Section 3.5 hereof, the Agreement Regarding Union Employees in the form attached
hereto as Exhibit V;

            (h) execute and deliver a direction letter to the Escrow Agent
authorizing release of the Deposit to Seller;

            (i) execute and deliver a Form TP-584 Combined Real Estate Transfer
Tax Return and Credit Line Mortgage Certificate, and a New York City Real
Property Transfer Tax Return, and such other returns and affidavits and
instruments required under any other tax laws applicable to the transactions
contemplated herein, together with payment of the amount of the transfer taxes
shown as due thereon; and

            (j) deliver such additional documents as shall be reasonably
required to consummate the transaction contemplated by this Agreement.

      SECTION 4.4 Credits and Prorations.

            (a) All income and expenses of the Property shall be apportioned as
of 12:01 a.m., on the day of Closing, as if Purchaser were vested with title to
the Property during the entire day upon which Closing occurs. Subject to the
provisions of this Section 4.4, such prorated items shall include without
limitation the following: (i) all Rents; (ii) taxes and assessments (including
personal property taxes on the Personal Property) levied against the Property;
(iii) taxes and assessments levied against the Property resulting from its
inclusion in the Grand Central Partnership Business Improvement District (iv)
parking charges, if any; (v) utility charges for which Seller is liable, if any,
such charges to be apportioned at Closing on the basis of the most recent meter
reading occurring prior to Closing (dated not more than fifteen (15) days prior
to Closing) or, if unmetered, on the basis of a current bill for each such
utility; (vi) all amounts payable under brokerage agreements pursuant to the
terms of this Agreement; (vii) all amounts payable, from and after the Closing
Date, under the Operating Agreements, pursuant to the terms of this Agreement;
and (viii) any other capital expenditures as set forth in Exhibit W attached
hereto and operating expenses or other items pertaining to the Property which
are customarily prorated between a purchaser and a seller in the county in which
the Property is located.

The parties hereto acknowledge that there shall be no adjustment for any
rentals or other amounts due under the Grant of Term and/or the Prime Lease.

            (b) The parties hereto acknowledge that the capital improvement
projects and/or the agreements listed on Exhibit W hereto shall not be completed
as of the date of the Closing and that capital expenditures being incurred or to
be incurred pursuant thereto shall be apportioned between the Seller and
Purchaser as set forth on Exhibit W. In no event shall the amount apportioned to
Purchaser in respect of such Capital Improvement Projects and/or the agreements
listed on Exhibit W exceed Three Million and 00/100 Dollars.

            (c) Notwithstanding anything contained in Section 4.4(a) hereof:

            (i) At Closing, (A) Seller shall, at Seller's option, either deliver
to Purchaser any Security Deposits actually held by Seller pursuant to the
Leases or credit to the account of Purchaser the amount of such Security
Deposits (to the extent such Security Deposits have not been applied against
delinquent Rents or otherwise as provided in the Leases), and (B) Seller shall
be entitled to receive and retain all refundable cash or other deposits posted
with utility companies serving the Property;

            (ii) Any taxes paid at or prior to Closing shall be prorated based
upon the amounts actually paid. If taxes and assessments due and payable during
the year of Closing have not been paid before Closing, Seller shall be charged
at Closing an amount equal to that portion of such taxes and assessments which
relates to the period before Closing and any late charges or fees imposed
thereon. Any such apportionment made with respect to a tax year for which the
tax rate or assessed valuation, or both, have not yet been fixed shall be based
upon the tax rate and/or assessed valuation last fixed. To the extent that the
actual taxes and assessments for the current year differ from the amount
apportioned at Closing, the parties shall make all necessary adjustments by
appropriate payments between themselves within thirty (30) days after such
amounts are determined following Closing, subject to the provisions of Section
4.4(d) hereof;

            (iii) Charges referred to in Section 4.4(a) hereof which are payable
by any tenant to a third party shall not be apportioned hereunder, and Purchaser
shall accept title subject to any of such charges unpaid and Purchaser shall
look solely to the tenant responsible therefor for the payment of the same. If
Seller shall have paid any of such charges on behalf of any tenant, and shall
not have been reimbursed therefor by the time of Closing, Purchaser shall credit
to Seller an amount equal to all such charges so paid by Seller;

            (iv) As to utility charges referred to in Section 4.4(a)(iii)
hereof, Seller may on notice to Purchaser elect to pay one or more or all of
said items accrued to the date hereinabove fixed for apportionment directly to
the person or entity entitled thereto, and to the extent Seller so elects, such
item shall not be apportioned hereunder, and Seller's obligation to pay such
item directly in such case shall survive the Closing or any termination of this
Agreement;

            (v) Seller shall be responsible for the Tenant Inducement Costs (as
hereinafter defined) and leasing commissions listed on Exhibit M-1 attached
hereto. Purchaser shall be responsible for the payment of (A) all Tenant
Inducement Costs and leasing commissions

(including, without limitation, any override commissions payable pursuant to the
Exclusive Brokerage Agreement between Seller and CB Richard Ellis Inc.) which
become due and payable (whether before or after Closing) as a result of any new
Leases, or any renewals, amendments or expansions of existing Leases (whether or
not entered into pursuant to an option), or the exercise of any options
contained in any Leases, arising or entered into during the Lease Approval
Period (as hereinafter defined) and, if required, approved or deemed approved in
accordance with Section 5.5 hereof; and (B) all Tenant Inducement Costs and
leasing commissions with respect to new Leases, or renewals, amendments or
expansions of existing Leases, arising, signed or entered into from and after
the date of Closing, including but not limited to leasing commissions that
become payable after the termination of a brokerage agreement referred to in
Section 5.1(d) hereof in accordance with the terms of such an agreement; and (C)
all Tenant Inducement Costs and leasing commissions listed on Exhibit M attached
hereto in the amount specified thereon. If, as of the date of Closing, Seller
shall have paid any Tenant Inducement Costs or leasing commissions for which
Purchaser is responsible pursuant to the foregoing provisions, Purchaser shall
reimburse Seller therefor at Closing. For purposes hereof, the term "TENANT
INDUCEMENT COSTS" shall mean any out-of-pocket payments required under a Lease
to be paid by the landlord thereunder to or for the benefit of the tenant
thereunder which is in the nature of a tenant inducement, including
specifically, without limitation, tenant improvement costs, lease buyout costs,
and moving, design, refurbishment and club membership allowances. The term
"Tenant Inducement Costs" shall not include loss of income resulting from any
free rental period, it being agreed that Seller shall bear the loss resulting
from any free rental period until the date of Closing and that Purchaser shall
bear such loss from and after the date of Closing. For purposes hereof, the term
"Lease Approval Period" shall mean the period from the Effective Date until the
date of Closing;

            (vi) Unpaid and delinquent Rent collected by Seller and Purchaser
after the date of Closing shall be delivered as follows: (a) if Seller collects
any unpaid or delinquent Rent for the Property, Seller shall, within fifteen
(15) days after the receipt thereof, deliver to Purchaser any such Rent which
Purchaser is entitled to hereunder relating to the date of Closing and any
period thereafter, and (b) if Purchaser collects any unpaid or delinquent Rent
from the Property, Purchaser shall, within fifteen (15) days after the receipt
thereof, deliver to Seller any such Rent which Seller is entitled to hereunder
relating to the period prior to the date of Closing. Seller and Purchaser agree
that (i) all Rent received by Seller or Purchaser within the first ninety (90)
day period after the date of Closing shall be applied first to delinquent Rent,
if any, in the order of their maturity, and then to current Rent, and (ii) all
Rent received by Seller or Purchaser after the first ninety (90) day period
after the date of Closing shall be applied first to current Rent and then to
delinquent Rent, if any in the inverse order of maturity. Purchaser will make a
good faith effort after Closing to collect all Rents in the usual course of
Purchaser's operation of the Property, but Purchaser will not be obligated to
institute any lawsuit or other collection procedures to collect delinquent
Rents. Seller shall have the right, after Closing, to proceed against tenants
for Fixed Rents allocable to the period of Seller's ownership of the Property
solely in a non-possessory plenary action seeking only money damages. In the
event that there shall be any Rents or other charges under any Leases which,
although relating to a period prior to Closing, do not become due and payable
until after Closing or are paid prior to Closing but are subject to adjustment
after Closing (such as year end common area expense reimbursements and the
like), then any Rents or charges of such type received by Purchaser or its
agents or Seller or its agents subsequent to Closing shall, to the extent
applicable to a period extending through the Closing, be prorated between Seller
and Purchaser as of Closing and Seller's

portion thereof shall be remitted promptly to Seller by Purchaser.

      (c) Seller may prosecute appeals (if any) of the real property tax
assessment for the period prior to the Closing, and may take related action
which Seller deems appropriate in connection therewith. Purchaser shall
cooperate with Seller and perform such ministerial and non-ministerial acts, and
execute any and all documents reasonably requested by Seller, in connection with
such appeal and collection of a refund of real property taxes paid. Seller shall
be responsible for reasonable third party expenses incurred by Purchaser in
connection with the foregoing. Seller owns and holds all right, title and
interest in and to such appeal and refund, to the extent attributable to the
period prior to the Closing, and all amounts payable in connection therewith
shall be paid directly to Seller by the applicable authorities. If such refund
or any part thereof is received by Purchaser, Purchaser shall promptly pay such
amount to Seller. Any refund received by Seller shall be distributed as follows:
first, to reimburse Seller for all costs incurred in connection with the appeal;
second, with respect to refunds payable to tenants of the Real Property pursuant
to the Leases, to such tenants in accordance with the terms of such Leases; and
third, to Seller to the extent such appeal covers the period prior to the
Closing, and to Purchaser to the extent such appeal covers the period as of the
Closing and thereafter. If and to the extent any such appeal covers the period
after the Closing, Purchaser shall have the right to participate in such appeal
and Seller shall not settle or compromise any such appeal without Purchaser's
consent, such consent not to be unreasonably withheld, delayed or conditioned.

      (d) Except as otherwise provided herein, and expressly excepting such
revenues and expense amounts which pertain to the calendar year 2005, which may
be reconciled by June 30, 2006, any revenue or expense amount which cannot be
ascertained with certainty as of Closing, shall be prorated on the basis of the
parties' reasonable estimates of such amount, and shall be the subject of a
final proration one hundred and eighty (180) days after Closing, or as soon
thereafter as the precise amounts can be ascertained. Any reconciliation of
revenue or expense amounts relating to Leases which needs to be made in
connection with this Section 4.4 shall be prepared by Purchaser and submitted to
Seller for Seller's review and approval. Purchaser shall promptly notify Seller
when it becomes aware that any such estimated amount has been ascertained. Once
all revenue and expense amounts have been ascertained, Purchaser shall prepare,
and certify as correct, a final proration statement which shall be in a form
consistent with the closing statement delivered at Closing and which shall be
subject to Seller's approval. Upon Seller's acceptance and approval of any final
proration statement submitted by Purchaser, such statement shall be conclusively
deemed to be accurate and final, and any payment due to any party as a result of
such final proration shall be made within thirty (30) days of such approval by
Seller.

      (e) To the extent that any Security Deposit is comprised of a letter of
credit (an "L/C"), then, prior to the Closing, Seller shall use commercially
reasonable efforts to cause such L/C to name Purchaser as the beneficiary
thereunder prior to the Closing (either pursuant to a transfer of such L/C which
satisfies the issuing bank's transfer requirement, or by obtaining an amendment
to the L/C naming purchaser as the beneficiary thereunder and, in the case of
the foregoing, in form and substance reasonably satisfactory to Purchaser)
(each, an "L/C TRANSFER"). At the Closing, Seller shall deliver to Purchaser the
originals of all L/C's (and any amendments or modification thereof) whether or
not an L/C Transfer has been consummated with respect to such L/C. If, as of the
Closing, an L/C Transfer shall not have been consummated, then Seller shall,
within five (5)

business days following Purchaser's request, execute and deliver to Purchaser
any sight drafts, certifications, affidavits, or other documentation
contemplated by the L/C or otherwise required by the issuing bank so as to
enable Purchaser to draw upon and receive the proceeds of such L/C, provided
that Purchaser has agreed (pursuant to documentation executed by Purchaser in a
form reasonably acceptable to Seller) to indemnify and hold harmless Seller from
any and all loss, cost, damage, liability or expense (including, without
limitation, reasonable attorneys' fees, court costs and disbursements,) incurred
by Seller as a result of any such actions described in the preceding sentence
which are taken by Seller at Purchaser's request.

      (f) Subject to the final sentence of Section 4.4(d) hereof, the provisions
of this Section 4.4 shall survive Closing.

      SECTION 4.5 Transaction Taxes and Closing Costs.

      (a) Seller and Purchaser shall execute such returns, questionnaires and
other documents as shall be required with regard to all applicable real property
transaction taxes imposed by applicable federal, state or local law or
ordinance;

      (b) Seller shall pay the fees of any counsel representing Seller in
connection with this transaction. Seller shall also pay the following costs and
expenses:

            (i) one-half of the escrow fee, if any which may be charged by the
Escrow Agent or Title Company;

            (ii) any transfer tax, sales tax, documentary stamp tax or similar
tax which becomes payable by reason of the transfer of the Property; and

            (iii) the fees for Seller's Broker.

      (c) Purchaser shall pay the fees of any counsel representing Purchaser in
connection with this transaction. Purchaser shall also pay the following costs
and expenses:

            (i) one- half of the escrow fee, if any, which may be charged by the
Escrow Agent or Title Company;

            (ii) the fee for the title examination and the Title Commitment and
the premium for the Owner's Policy of Title Insurance to be issued to Purchaser
by the Title Company at Closing, and all endorsements thereto;

            (iii) the fees for recording the Deed; and

            (iv) the fees for Purchaser's Broker, if any.

      (d) Except as set forth on Exhibit B-1 attached hereto, the Personal
Property is included in this sale without charge, except that Purchaser shall
pay to Seller the amount of any and all sales

or similar taxes payable in connection with the transfer of the Personal
Property and Purchaser shall execute and deliver any tax returns required of it
in connection therewith;

      (e) All costs and expenses incident to this transaction and the closing
thereof, and not specifically described above, shall be paid by the party
incurring same; and

      (f) The provisions of this Section 4.5 shall survive the Closing.

      SECTION 4.6 Conditions Precedent to Obligations of Purchaser. The
obligation of Purchaser to consummate the transaction hereunder shall be subject
to the fulfillment on or before the date of Closing of all of the following
conditions, any or all of which may be waived by Purchaser in its sole
discretion:

      (a) Seller shall have delivered to Purchaser all of the items required to
be delivered to Purchaser pursuant to the terms of this Agreement, including but
not limited to, those provided for in Section 4.2 hereof;

      (b) All of the representations and warranties of Seller contained in this
Agreement shall be true and correct in all material respects as of the date of
Closing (with appropriate modifications permitted under this Agreement); and

      (c) Seller shall have performed and observed, in all material respects,
all covenants and agreements of this Agreement to be performed and observed by
Seller as of the date of Closing.

      SECTION 4.7 Conditions Precedent to Obligations of Seller. The obligation
of Seller to consummate the transaction hereunder shall be subject to the
fulfillment on or before the date of Closing of all of the following conditions,
any or all of which may be waived by Seller in its sole discretion:

      (a) Seller shall have received the Purchase Price as adjusted as provided
herein, pursuant to and payable in the manner provided for in this Agreement;

      (b) Purchaser shall have delivered to Seller all of the items required to
be delivered to Seller pursuant to the terms of this Agreement, including but
not limited to, those provided for in Section 4.3 hereof;

      (c) All of the representations and warranties of Purchaser contained in
this Agreement shall be true and correct in all material respects as of the date
of Closing (with appropriate modifications permitted under this Agreement); and

      (d) Purchaser shall have performed and observed, in all material respects,
all covenants and agreements of this Agreement to be performed and observed by
Purchaser as of the date of Closing.

                                    ARTICLE V

REPRESENTATIONS, WARRANTIES AND COVENANTS

      SECTION 5.1 Representations and Warranties of Seller. Seller hereby makes
the following representations and warranties to Purchaser as of the Effective
Date, which representations and warranties shall be deemed to have been made
again as of the Closing, subject to Section 4.2(g) hereof:

      (a) Organization and Authority. Seller has been duly organized and is
validly existing under the laws of the State of Delaware. Seller has the full
right and authority to enter into this Agreement and to transfer all of the
Property and to consummate or cause to be consummated the transaction
contemplated by this Agreement. The person signing this Agreement on behalf of
Seller is authorized to do so.

      (b) Pending Actions. To Seller's knowledge, Seller has not received
written notice of any action, suit, arbitration, unsatisfied order or judgment,
government investigation or proceeding pending against Seller which, if
adversely determined, could individually or in the aggregate materially
interfere with the consummation of the transaction contemplated by this
Agreement.

      (c) Operating Agreements. To Seller's knowledge, the Operating Agreements
listed on Exhibit C comprise a true, complete and accurate list of all of the
agreements concerning the operation and maintenance of the Property entered into
by Seller and/or Seller's property manager and affecting the Property, true and
complete copies of which have been made available to the Purchaser; expressly
excepting however, those operating agreements that are not assignable, and any
agreement with Seller's property manager or exclusive leasing broker which shall
be terminated by Seller. It is further acknowledged that the agreement between
Seller and/or Seller's property manager and Landmark Signs listed on Exhibit C
shall not be assigned to Purchaser. Except as expressly hereinbefore provided,
Seller makes no representation or warranty as to the truth, accuracy or
completeness of any other information or data contained on Exhibit C and shall
have no liability to Purchaser for any inaccuracy or omission in or relating to
same.

      (d) Lease Brokerage. (i) To Seller's knowledge, there are no written
agreements with brokers providing for the payment from and after the Closing by
Seller or Seller's successor-in-interest of leasing commissions or fees for
procuring tenants with respect to the Property, except as disclosed in Exhibit N
hereto, true and complete copies of which have been made available to Purchaser;

            (ii) To Seller's knowledge, Seller has made available to Purchaser
true and complete copies of those tenant brokerage agreements which are in the
Seller's possession as of the date hereof, as more particularly described on
Exhibit N-1 hereto.

      (e) Condemnation. To Seller's knowledge, Seller has received no written
notice of any condemnation proceedings relating to the Property.

      (f) Litigation. To Seller's knowledge, except as set forth in the Title
Commitment and on Exhibit O attached hereto, and except tenant eviction
proceedings, tenant bankruptcies, proceedings for the collection of delinquent
rentals from tenants and proceedings related to claims

for personal injury or damage to property due to events occurring at the
Property, Seller has not received written notice of any litigation which has
been filed against Seller that arises out of the ownership of the Property and
would materially affect the Property or use thereof, or Seller's ability to
perform hereunder;

      (g) Violations. To Seller's knowledge, except as set forth in the Title
Commitment and on Exhibit P attached hereto, Seller has not received written
notice of any uncured violation of any federal, state or local law relating to
the use or operation of the Property which would materially adversely affect the
Property or use thereof; and

      (h) Leases. To Seller's knowledge, the Lease Index attached hereto as
Exhibit Q constitutes a true and complete list of all the leases currently
affecting the Property, true and complete copies of which have been made
available to Purchaser. Further, Seller makes no representation or warranty
regarding the existence, terms or duration of any subleases which may affect the
Property.

      SECTION 5.2 Knowledge Defined. References to the "knowledge" of Seller
shall refer only to the current actual knowledge of the Designated Employee (as
hereinafter defined) of Seller, and shall not be construed, by imputation or
otherwise, to refer to the knowledge of Seller or any affiliate of Seller, to
any property manager, or to any other officer, agent, manager, representative or
employee of Seller or any affiliate thereof or to impose upon such Designated
Employee any duty to investigate the matter to which such actual knowledge, or
the absence thereof, pertains. As used herein, the term "DESIGNATED EMPLOYEE"
shall refer to Donald E.Svoboda, Jr., Associate Director and Gregory R. Reed,
Director.

      SECTION 5.3 Modification of Seller's Representations and Warranties.
Purchaser acknowledges that prior to the Effective Date, it has inspected (i)
all of the documents delivered or furnished to Purchaser for inspection, (ii)
such offer documents and information as it has deemed appropriate and (iii) the
Property; and Purchaser agrees that, in the event that during such inspection
Purchaser discovered any material matter which would form the basis for a claim
by Purchaser that Seller has breached any representation or warranty of Seller
made in this Agreement or has any actual knowledge of any such matter, Seller's
representations and warranties hereunder shall be deemed amended so as to be
true and accurate and Purchaser shall have no claim for any breach based
thereon.

      SECTION 5.4 Survival of Seller's Representations and Warranties. The
representations and warranties of Seller set forth in Section 5.1 hereof as
updated as of the Closing in accordance with the terms of this Agreement, shall
survive Closing for a period of one hundred eighty (180) days. No claim for a
breach of any representation or warranty of Seller shall be actionable or
payable if the breach in question results from or is based on a condition, state
of facts or other matter which was known to Purchaser prior to Closing. Seller
shall have no liability to Purchaser for a breach of any representation or
warranty (a) unless the valid claims for all such breaches collectively
aggregate more than Five Hundred Thousand Dollars ($ 500,000), in which event
the full amount of such valid claims shall be actionable, up to the Cap (as
defined in this Section), and (b) unless written notice containing a description
of the specific nature of such breach shall have been given by Purchaser to
Seller prior to the expiration of said one hundred eighty (180) day

period and an action shall have been commenced by Purchaser against Seller
within two hundred forty (240) days of Closing. Purchaser agrees to first seek
recovery under any insurance policies, service contracts and Leases prior to
seeking recovery from Seller, and Seller shall not be liable to Purchaser if
Purchaser's claim is satisfied from such insurance policies, service contracts
or Leases. As used herein, the term "CAP" shall mean the total aggregate amount
of Ten Million Dollars ($10,000,000.00).

      SECTION 5.5 Covenants of Seller. Seller hereby covenants with Purchaser as
follows:

      (a) From the Effective Date hereof until the Closing or earlier
termination of this Agreement, Seller shall use reasonable efforts to operate
and maintain the Property in a manner generally consistent with the manner in
which Seller has operated and maintained the Property prior to the date hereof;

      (b) Except as provided herein below, a copy of any amendment, renewal or
expansion of an existing Lease or of any new Lease which Seller wishes to
execute between the Effective Date and the date of Closing will be submitted to
Purchaser prior to execution by Seller. Purchaser agrees to notify Seller in
writing within five (5) business days after its receipt thereof of either its
approval or disapproval thereof, including all Tenant Inducement Costs, leasing
commissions and attorneys' fees and expenses to be incurred in connection
therewith. In the event Purchaser informs Seller within such five (5) business
day period that Purchaser does not approve the amendment, renewal or expansion
of the existing Lease or the new Lease, which approval shall not be unreasonably
withheld, Seller shall not enter into such amendment, renewal or expansion of
the existing Lease or the new Lease; provided, however, Purchaser shall have no
right to disapprove and shall be deemed to have approved any renewal or
expansion which occurs or is made pursuant to the terms of an existing Lease.
Notwithstanding the foregoing, Purchaser hereby approves (A) the pending
Surrender Agreement with CSC for the 31st floor, (B) the UBS Paine Webber Lease
for part of the 32nd floor, (C) the Fisher Francis Lease for the 45th and 46th
floors, (D) the extension of the Tie Rack tenancy, (D) the extension of the
Estee Lauder tenancy, extension of the Lease in favor of the Company Store, (F)
the new Lease in favor of The New York Blood Center Inc., (G) the lease
Amendment in favor of Winston and Strawn for additional space on the 40th, 43rd,
44th and 45th floors of the Building, (H) the exercise of Riad of the renewal
option contained in its Lease, (I) the Leases between Seller and Metropolitan
Life Insurance Company for premises located on portions of the 12th floor, 32nd
floor, 40th floor, 57th floor and the 56th floor of the Building, and (J) the
First Amendment of Lease between Seller and The Dreyfus Corporation, in each
case on substantially similar terms and conditions as those set forth on Exhibit
X attached hereto and made a part hereof. Any material deviations from the terms
and conditions set forth on Exhibit X attached hereto, any terms and conditions
that are inconsistent with the terms and conditions set forth on Exhibit X
attached hereto and any material terms and conditions that are not set forth on
Exhibit X attached hereto, shall be subject to Purchaser's prior written
approval, which approval shall not be unreasonably withheld. If this Agreement
is terminated pursuant to the foregoing provisions of this paragraph, then
neither party shall have any further rights or obligations hereunder (except for
any indemnity obligations of either party pursuant to the other provisions of
this Agreement), the Deposit shall be returned to Purchaser and each party shall
bear its own costs incurred hereunder. In the event Purchaser fails to notify
Seller in writing of its approval or disapproval within the five (5) business
day period set forth above, Purchaser

shall be deemed to have approved such new Lease, amendment, renewal or
expansion, including all Tenant Inducement Costs, leasing commissions and
attorneys' fees and expenses to be incurred in connection therewith. At Closing,
Purchaser shall reimburse Seller for any Tenant Inducement Costs, leasing
commissions and attorneys' fees and other expenses, incurred by Seller pursuant
to an amendment, a renewal, an expansion or a new Lease approved (or deemed
approved) by Purchaser.

      It is agreed by Seller and Purchaser that if Dreyfus does not pay rent
pursuant to its Lease for the new portions of the 8th and 54th floor premises on
the basis that the Commencement Date has not occurred as of August 27, 2004,
Seller shall reimburse Purchaser for the free rent period under its Lease after
the Closing provided that in no event shall such reimbursement by Seller be in
excess of eight (8) months of the rent abatement period as provided in the
Lease. Purchaser shall agree to reasonably cooperate with Seller in resolving
this dispute with Dreyfus.

      SECTION 5.6 Representations and Warranties of Purchaser. Purchaser hereby
makes the following representations and warranties to Seller as of the Effective
Date, which representations and warranties shall be deemed to have been made
again as of the Closing, subject to Section 4.3(d) hereof:

      (a) Organization and Authority. (i) This Agreement and the consummation of
the transactions contemplated hereby have been duly authorized by all necessary
action on the part of the Purchaser and, upon the assumption that this Agreement
constitutes a legal, valid and binding obligation of Seller, this Agreement
constitutes a legal, valid and binding obligation of Purchaser enforceable
against Purchaser in accordance with its terms, subject to applicable laws
relating to bankruptcy, insolvency, moratorium, as well as other laws affecting
creditors' rights and general equitable principles. The execution and delivery
of this Agreement and the consummation of the transactions contemplated hereby
do not and will not (i) violate or conflict with the [Certificate of
Incorporation] or [By-Laws of Purchaser;] (ii) breach the provisions of, or
constitute a default under, any contract, agreement, instrument or obligation to
which Purchaser is a party or by which Purchaser is bound; and (iii) require the
consent or approval of any other third party or governmental agency.

            (ii) Purchaser's Additional Representations. Purchaser hereby
represents that, and agrees to furnish Seller at or prior to the Closing
evidence confirming that (i) it is a, duly organized and validly existing under
the law of the State of Delaware and Purchaser is owned by Tishman Speyer Real
Estate Venture VI, L.P., a Delaware limited partnership which is controlled by
Tishman Speyer Properties, L.P.; and (ii) the parties executing this Agreement
and the Closing Documents on behalf of Purchaser or other party to the
transaction have the legal capacity and authority to execute the documents as
executed or to be executed.

      (b) Pending Actions. To Purchaser's knowledge, there is no action, suit,
arbitration, unsatisfied order or judgment, government investigation or
proceeding pending against Purchaser which, if adversely determined, could
individually or in the aggregate materially interfere with the consummation of
the transaction contemplated by this Agreement.

(c) ERISA. (i) As of the Closing, (1) Purchaser will not be an employee
benefit plan as defined in Section 3(3) of the Employee Retirement Income
Security Act of 1974, as amended ("ERISA"), which is subject to Title I of
ERISA, nor a plan as defined in Section 4975(e)(1) of the Internal Revenue Code
of 1986, as amended (each of the foregoing hereinafter referred to collectively
as "PLAN"), and (2) the assets of the Purchaser will not constitute "plan
assets" of one or more such Plans within the meaning of Department of Labor
("DOL") Regulation Section 2510.3-101.

            (ii) As of the Closing, if Purchaser is a "governmental plan" as
defined in Section 3(32) of ERISA, the closing of the sale of the Property will
not constitute or result in a violation of state or local statutes regulating
investments of and fiduciary obligations with respect to governmental plans.

            (iii) As of the Closing, Purchaser will be acting on its own behalf
and not on account of or for the benefit of any Plan.

            (iv) Purchaser has no present intent to transfer the Property to any
entity, person or Plan which will cause a violation of ERISA.

            (v) Purchaser shall not assign its interest under this Agreement to
any entity, person, or Plan which will cause a violation of ERISA.

      SECTION 5.7 Survival of Purchaser's Representations and Warranties. The
representations and warranties of Purchaser set forth in Section 5.6 hereof as
updated as of the Closing in accordance with the terms of this Agreement, shall
survive Closing for a period of one hundred eighty (180) days. Purchaser shall
have no liability to Seller for a breach of any representation or warranty
unless written notice containing a description of the specific nature of such
breach shall have been given by Seller to Purchaser prior to the expiration of
said one hundred eighty (180) day period and an action shall have been commenced
by Seller against Purchaser within two hundred forty (240) days of Closing.

                                   ARTICLE VI

                                     DEFAULT

      SECTION 6.1 Default by Purchaser. In the event the sale of the Property as
contemplated hereunder is not consummated due to Purchaser's default hereunder,
Seller shall be entitled, as its sole remedy, to terminate this Agreement and
receive the Deposit as liquidated damages for the breach of this Agreement, it
being agreed between the parties hereto that the actual damages to Seller in the
event of such breach are impractical to ascertain and the amount of the Deposit
is a reasonable estimate thereof.

      SECTION 6.2 Default by Seller. In the event the sale of the Property as
contemplated hereunder is not consummated due to Seller's default hereunder,
Purchaser shall be entitled, as its sole remedy, either (a) to receive the
return of the Deposit, which return shall operate to terminate

this Agreement and release Seller from any and all liability hereunder, or (b)
to enforce specific performance of Seller's obligation to convey the Property to
Purchaser in accordance with the terms of this Agreement, it being understood
and agreed that the remedy of specific performance shall not be available to
enforce any other obligation of Seller hereunder. Purchaser expressly waives its
rights to seek damages in the event of Seller's default hereunder. If the sale
of the Property is not consummated due to Seller's default hereunder, Purchaser
shall be deemed to have elected to terminate this Agreement and receive back the
Deposit if Purchaser fails to file suit for specific performance against Seller
in a court having jurisdiction in the county and state in which the Property is
located, on or before thirty (30) days following the date upon which Closing was
to have occurred.

      SECTION 6.3 Recoverable Damages. Notwithstanding Sections 6.1 and 6.2
hereof, in no event shall the provisions of Sections 6.1 and 6.2 limit the
damages recoverable by either party against the other party due to the other
party's obligation to indemnify such party in accordance with this Agreement.
This Section shall survive the Closing or the earlier termination of this
Agreement.

                                   ARTICLE VII

                                  RISK OF LOSS

      SECTION 7.1 Minor Damage or Condemnation. In the event of loss or damage
to, or condemnation of, the Property or any portion thereof which is not "Major"
(as hereinafter defined), this Agreement shall remain in full force and effect
provided that Seller shall, at Seller's option, either (a) perform any necessary
repairs, or (b) assign to Purchaser, (but expressly excluding from such
assignment Seller's right and the right of any affiliate of Seller to casualty
or condemnation proceeds in respect of the Existing Signs pursuant to the Deed)
without representation, warranty or recourse to Seller, all of Seller's right,
title and interest in and to any claims and proceeds Seller may have with
respect to any casualty insurance policies or condemnation awards relating to
the premises in question, after deduction of Seller's expenses of collection and
amounts expended by Seller in Seller's reasonable discretion to prevent further
damage to the Property or to alleviate unsafe conditions at the Property caused
by casualty or condemnation. In the event that Seller elects to perform repairs
upon the Property, Seller shall use reasonable efforts to complete such repairs
promptly and the date of Closing shall be extended a reasonable time in order to
allow for the completion of such repairs. If, subject to the provisions of the
Deed, Seller elects to assign a casualty claim to Purchaser, the Purchase Price
shall be reduced by an amount equal to the lesser of the deductible amount under
Seller's insurance policy or the cost of such repairs as determined in
accordance with Section 7.3 hereof. Upon Closing, full risk of loss with respect
to the Property shall pass to Purchaser.

      SECTION 7.2 Major Damage. In the event of a "Major" loss or damage to, or
condemnation of, the Property or any portion thereof, either Seller or Purchaser
may terminate this Agreement by written notice to the other party, in which
event the Deposit shall be returned to Purchaser. If neither Seller nor
Purchaser elects to terminate this Agreement within ten (10) days after Seller
sends Purchaser written notice of the occurrence of such Major loss, damage or
condemnation (which notice shall state the cost of repair or restoration thereof
as opined by an

architect in accordance with Section 7.3 hereof), then Seller and Purchaser
shall be deemed to have elected to proceed with Closing, in which event Seller
shall, at Seller's option, either (a) perform any necessary repairs, or (b)
assign to Purchaser, without representation, warranty or recourse to Seller, all
of Seller's right, title and interest in and to any claims and proceeds Seller
may have with respect to any casualty insurance policies or condemnation awards
relating to the premises in question, after deduction of Seller's expenses of
collection and amounts expended by Seller in Seller's reasonable discretion to
prevent further damage to the Property or to alleviate unsafe conditions at the
Property caused by casualty or condemnation. In the event that Seller elects to
perform repairs upon the Property, Seller shall use reasonable efforts to
complete such repairs promptly and the date of Closing shall be extended a
reasonable time in order to allow for the completion of such repairs. If Seller
elects to assign a casualty claim to Purchaser, the Purchase Price shall be
reduced by an amount equal to the lesser of the deductible amount under Seller's
insurance policy or the cost of such repairs as determined in accordance with
Section 7.3 hereof. Upon Closing, full risk of loss with respect to the Property
shall pass to Purchaser. The foregoing notwithstanding, if there is a casualty
or condemnation affecting any of the Existing Signs or all or any portion of the
premises demised to Seller or any affiliate of Seller under any Lease, Seller
shall have the sole option to terminate the Agreement. If this Agreement is
terminated by Seller in such instance, then neither party shall have any further
rights or obligations hereunder (except for any indemnity obligations of either
party pursuant to the other provisions of the Agreement), the Deposit shall be
returned to Purchaser and each party shall bear its own costs hereunder.

      SECTION 7.3 Definition of "Major" Loss or Damage. For purposes of Sections
7.1 and 7.2, "MAJOR" loss, damage or condemnation refers to the following: (a)
loss or damage to the Property hereof such that the cost of repairing or
restoring the premises in question to substantially the same condition which
existed prior to the event of damage would be, in the opinion of an architect
selected by Seller and reasonably approved by Purchaser, equal to or greater
than Forty Million Dollars ($40,000,000.00) and (b) any loss due to a
condemnation which permanently and materially impairs the current use of the
Property. If Purchaser does not give written notice to Seller of Purchaser's
reasons for disapproving an architect within five (5) business days after
receipt of notice of the proposed architect, Purchaser shall be deemed to have
approved the architect selected by Seller.

      SECTION 7.4 General Obligations Law The parties hereto waive the
provisions of Section 5-1311 of the General Obligations Law, which shall not
apply to this Agreement and agree that their respective rights in case of
damage, destruction, condemnation or taking by eminent domain shall be governed
by the provisions of this Section. . The provisions of this Section shall
survive the Closing.

                                  ARTICLE VIII

                                   COMMISSIONS

      SECTION 8.1 Brokerage Commissions. With respect to the transaction
contemplated by this Agreement, Seller represents that its sole broker is
Cushman & Wakefield, Inc. ("SELLER'S BROKER"), and Purchaser represents that it
has not dealt with or engaged on its behalf or for its

benefit with any broker other than Seller's Broker. Seller shall be responsible
for any and all commissions and other compensation due to Seller's Broker in
connection with the transaction contemplated by this Agreement, which shall be
paid pursuant to a separate written agreement between Seller and Seller's
Broker. Each party hereto agrees that if any person or entity, other than the
Seller's Broker makes a claim for brokerage commissions or finder's fees related
to the sale of the Property by Seller to Purchaser, and such claim is made by,
through or on account of any acts or alleged acts of said party or its
representatives, said party will protect, indemnify, defend and hold the other
party free and harmless from and against any and all loss, liability, cost,
damage and expense (including reasonable attorneys' fees) in connection
therewith. The provisions of this paragraph shall survive Closing or any
termination of this Agreement.

                                   ARTICLE IX

                             DISCLAIMERS AND WAIVERS

      SECTION 9.1 No Reliance on Documents. Except as expressly stated herein,
Seller makes no representation or warranty as to the truth, accuracy or
completeness of any materials, data or information delivered or given by Seller
or its brokers or agents to Purchaser in connection with the transaction
contemplated hereby. Purchaser acknowledges and agrees that all materials, data
and information delivered or given by Seller to Purchaser in connection with the
transaction contemplated hereby are provided to Purchaser as a convenience only
and that any reliance on or use of such materials, data or information by
Purchaser shall be at the sole risk of Purchaser, except as otherwise expressly
stated herein. Neither Seller, nor any affiliate of Seller, nor the person or
entity which prepared any report or reports delivered by Seller to Purchaser
shall have any liability to Purchaser for any inaccuracy in or omission from any
such reports.

      SECTION 9.2 AS-IS SALE; DISCLAIMERS. EXCEPT AS EXPRESSLY SET FORTH IN THIS
AGREEMENT, IT IS UNDERSTOOD AND AGREED THAT SELLER IS NOT MAKING AND HAS NOT AT
ANY TIME MADE ANY WARRANTIES, REPRESENTATIONS, GUARANTIES, COVENANTS OR
STATEMENTS OF ANY TYPE, KIND, NATURE OR CHARACTER WHATSOEVER, EXPRESS OR
IMPLIED, WITH RESPECT TO THE PROPERTY, INCLUDING BUT NOT LIMITED TO, ANY
WARRANTIES, REPRESENTATIONS, GUARANTIES, COVENANTS OR STATEMENTS AS TO
HABITABILITY, MERCHANTABILITY OR FITNESS OF THE PROPERTY FOR A PARTICULAR
PURPOSE, THE INCOME, EXPENSES, OPERATION OR PROFITABILITY OF THE PROPERTY, THE
OPERATING HISTORY OF OR ANY PROJECTIONS RELATING TO THE PROPERTY, THE VALUATION
OF THE PROPERTY, ANY TAX TREATMENT, WHETHER INCOME OR OTHERWISE, RELATED TO THE
PROPERTY, OR AS TO THE PHYSICAL, STRUCTURAL, OR ENVIRONMENTAL CONDITION OF THE
PROPERTY, ITS COMPLIANCE WITH LAWS OR WITH RESPECT TO THE ZONING OF, OR ANY
APPROVALS, LICENSES OR PERMITS REQUIRED FOR THE PROPERTY, OR THE SUITABILITY OF
THE PROPERTY FOR PURCHASER'S INTENDED USE THEREOF OR THE ABILITY OR FEASIBILITY
TO CONVERT THE PROPERTY OR ANY PORTION THEREOF TO ANY OTHER OR PARTICULAR USE,
OR WITH RESPECT TO THE AVAILABILITY OF ACCESS, INGRESS OR EGRESS TO THE
PROPERTY, THE NEED FOR OR COMPLIANCE WITH GOVERNMENTAL OR THIRD PARTY APPROVALS
OR

GOVERNMENTAL REGULATIONS, OR ANY OTHER MATTER OR THING OF ANY TYPE, KIND,
NATURE OR CHARACTER WHATSOEVER RELATING TO OR AFFECTING THE PROPERTY.

      PURCHASER ACKNOWLEDGES AND AGREES THAT UPON CLOSING SELLER SHALL SELL AND
CONVEY TO PURCHASER AND PURCHASER SHALL ACCEPT THE PROPERTY "AS IS, WHERE IS,
WITH ALL FAULTS", EXCEPT TO THE EXTENT EXPRESSLY PROVIDED OTHERWISE IN THIS
AGREEMENT. PURCHASER HAS NOT RELIED AND WILL NOT RELY ON, AND SELLER IS NOT
LIABLE FOR OR BOUND BY, ANY EXPRESS OR IMPLIED WARRANTIES, GUARANTIES,
COVENANTS, STATEMENTS, REPRESENTATIONS OR INFORMATION PERTAINING TO THE PROPERTY
OR RELATING THERETO (INCLUDING SPECIFICALLY, WITHOUT LIMITATION, OFFERING
PACKAGES DISTRIBUTED WITH RESPECT TO THE PROPERTY) MADE OR FURNISHED BY SELLER,
THE MANAGERS OF THE PROPERTY, OR ANY REAL ESTATE BROKER OR AGENT REPRESENTING OR
PURPORTING TO REPRESENT SELLER, TO WHOMEVER MADE OR GIVEN, DIRECTLY OR
INDIRECTLY, ORALLY OR IN WRITING, UNLESS AND TO THE EXTENT EXPRESSLY SET FORTH
IN THIS AGREEMENT. PURCHASER ALSO ACKNOWLEDGES THAT THE PURCHASE PRICE REFLECTS
AND TAKES INTO ACCOUNT THAT THE PROPERTY IS BEING SOLD "AS-IS, WHERE IS, WITH
ALL FAULTS."

      PURCHASER REPRESENTS TO SELLER THAT PURCHASER HAS CONDUCTED PRIOR TO THE
EFFECTIVE DATE, SUCH INVESTIGATIONS OF THE PROPERTY, INCLUDING BUT NOT LIMITED
TO, THE PHYSICAL, STRUCTURAL, AND ENVIRONMENTAL CONDITIONS, THE INCOME AND
EXPENSES OF AND FROM THE PROPERTY AND THE PROFITABILITY OF THE PROPERTY AND ANY
TAX TREATMENT, WHETHER INCOME OR OTHERWISE, RELATED TO THE PROPERTY, AS
PURCHASER DEEMED NECESSARY OR DESIRABLE TO SATISFY ITSELF AS TO THE CONDITION OF
THE PROPERTY AND THE EXISTENCE OR NONEXISTENCE OR CURATIVE ACTION TO BE TAKEN
WITH RESPECT TO ANY HAZARDOUS OR TOXIC SUBSTANCES ON OR DISCHARGED FROM THE
PROPERTY, AND IS RELYING SOLELY AND WILL RELY SOLELY UPON SAME AND NOT UPON ANY
INFORMATION PROVIDED BY OR ON BEHALF OF SELLER OR ITS AGENTS OR EMPLOYEES WITH
RESPECT THERETO, OTHER THAN ANY, IF ANY, REPRESENTATIONS, WARRANTIES AND
COVENANTS OF SELLER AS ARE EXPRESSLY SET FORTH IN THIS AGREEMENT. UPON CLOSING,
PURCHASER SHALL ASSUME THE RISK THAT ADVERSE MATTERS, INCLUDING BUT NOT LIMITED
TO, CONSTRUCTION DEFECTS AND ADVERSE PHYSICAL, ENVIRONMENTAL, FINANCIAL AND
ECONOMIC CONDITIONS, MAY NOT HAVE BEEN REVEALED BY PURCHASER'S INVESTIGATIONS,
AND PURCHASER, UPON CLOSING, SHALL BE DEEMED TO HAVE WAIVED, RELINQUISHED AND
RELEASED SELLER (AND SELLER'S AFFILIATES, OFFICERS, DIRECTORS, SHAREHOLDERS,
EMPLOYEES AND AGENTS) FROM AND AGAINST ANY AND ALL CLAIMS, DEMANDS, CAUSES OF
ACTION (INCLUDING WITHOUT LIMITATION CAUSES OF ACTION IN TORT), LOSSES, DAMAGES,
LIABILITIES, COSTS AND EXPENSES (INCLUDING REASONABLE ATTORNEYS' FEES) OF ANY
AND EVERY TYPE, KIND, CHARACTER

OR NATURE WHATSOEVER, KNOWN OR UNKNOWN, WHICH PURCHASER MIGHT HAVE ASSERTED OR
ALLEGED AGAINST SELLER (AND/OR SELLER'S AFFILIATES, OFFICERS, DIRECTORS,
SHAREHOLDERS, EMPLOYEES AND AGENTS) AT ANY TIME BY REASON OF OR ARISING OUT OF
THE PHYSICAL, ENVIRONMENTAL, STRUCTURAL, FINANCIAL AND ECONOMIC CONDITION OF THE
PROPERTY, ANY LATENT OR PATENT CONSTRUCTION OR OTHER DEFECTS RELATED TO THE
PROPERTY, VIOLATIONS OF ANY APPLICABLE LAWS RELATED TO THE PROPERTY, THE
HABITABILITY, MERCHANTABILITY OR FITNESS OF THE PROPERTY FOR ANY PARTICULAR
PURPOSE, THE INCOME, EXPENSES OR PROFITABILITY OF THE PROPERTY, ANY TAX
TREATMENT, WHETHER INCOME OR OTHERWISE, RELATED TO THE PROPERTY, OF THE
PROPERTY, ITS COMPLIANCE WITH LAWS OR WITH RESPECT TO THE ZONING OF, APPROVALS
REQUIRED FOR, OR THE SUITABILITY OF THE PROPERTY FOR PURCHASER'S INTENDED USE
THEREOF OR THE ABILITY OR THE FEASIBILITY TO CONVERT THE PROPERTY OR ANY PORTION
THEREOF TO ANY OTHER OR PARTICULAR USE, OR WITH RESPECT TO THE AVAILABILITY OF
ACCESS, INGRESS OR EGRESS, OPERATING HISTORY OR PROJECTIONS, VALUATION,
GOVERNMENTAL OR THIRD PARTY APPROVALS, GOVERNMENTAL REGULATIONS OR ANY OTHER
MATTER OR THING OF ANY TYPE, KIND, NATURE OR CHARACTER WHATSOEVER RELATING TO OR
AFFECTING THE PROPERTY, AND ANY AND ALL OTHER ACTS, OMISSIONS, EVENTS,
CIRCUMSTANCES OR MATTERS OF ANY TYPE, CHARACTER OR NATURE WHATSOEVER REGARDING
THE PROPERTY. PURCHASER ACKNOWLEDGES THAT SUCH ADVERSE MATTERS MAY AFFECT
PURCHASER'S ABILITY TO SELL, LEASE, OPERATE OR FINANCE THE PROPERTY AT ANY TIME
AND FROM TIME TO TIME.

      SECTION 9.3 Survival of Disclaimers The provision of the Article IX shall
survive Closing or any termination of this Agreement.

                                    ARTICLE X

                                  MISCELLANEOUS

      SECTION 10.1 Confidentiality. Purchaser and its representatives shall hold
in strictest confidence all data and information obtained with respect to Seller
or its business, whether obtained before or after the execution and delivery of
this Agreement which shall be used solely for the purposes of evaluating the
proposed acquisition of the Property by Purchaser, and shall not disclose the
same to others; provided, however, that it is understood and agreed that
Purchaser may disclose such data and information to the employees, lenders,
consultants, accountants and attorneys of Purchaser provided that such persons
agree in writing to treat such data and information confidentially. In the event
this Agreement is terminated or Purchaser fails to perform hereunder, Purchaser
shall promptly return to Seller any statements, documents, schedules, exhibits
or other written information obtained from Seller in connection with this
Agreement or the transaction contemplated herein. In the event of a breach or
threatened breach by Purchaser or its agents or representatives of this Section
10.1, Seller shall be entitled to an injunction restraining Purchaser or its
agents or representatives from disclosing, in whole or in part, such
confidential information.

Nothing herein shall be construed as prohibiting Seller from pursuing any other
available remedy at law or in equity for such breach or threatened breach. The
provisions of this Section 10.1 shall survive Closing or any termination of this
Agreement.

      SECTION 10.2 Public Disclosure. Prior to and after the Closing, any press
release or other public disclosure of information with respect to the sale
contemplated herein or any matters set forth in this Agreement made or released
by or on behalf of Purchaser shall be subject to Seller's prior approval. Seller
and the affiliates of Seller shall have the right without Purchaser's consent,
to make prior to and after the Closing press releases and other public
disclosures with respect to the sale contemplated herein and matters set forth
in this Agreement. The provisions of this Section 10.2 shall survive the Closing
or any termination of this Agreement.

      SECTION 10.3 Assignment. Subject to the provisions of this Section 10.3,
the terms and provisions of this Agreement are to apply to and bind the
permitted successors and assigns of the parties hereto. Purchaser may not assign
its rights under this Agreement without first obtaining Seller's written
approval, which approval may be given or withheld in Seller's sole discretion,
and any such attempted assignment without Seller's prior written approval shall
be null and void. In the event Purchaser intends to assign its rights hereunder,
(a) Purchaser shall send Seller written notice of its request at least ten (10)
business days prior to Closing, which request shall include the legal name and
structure of the proposed assignee, as well as any other information that Seller
may reasonably request, and (b) Purchaser and the proposed assignee shall
execute an assignment and assumption of this Agreement in form and substance
satisfactory to Seller, and (c) in no event shall any assignment of this
Agreement release or discharge Purchaser from any liability or obligation
hereunder. Notwithstanding the second sentence of this Section 10.3 Purchaser
may assign this Agreement in its entirety to an entity which is wholly owned,
directly or indirectly, by affiliates of New York City Employee Retirement
Systems, New York City Teachers Retirement Systems, Lehman Brothers and Tishman
Speyer Real Estate Venture VI, L.P. and controlled by Tishman Speyer Property,
L.P. or Tishman Speyer Real Estate Ventures VI, L.P. Notwithstanding the
foregoing, under no circumstances shall Purchaser have the right to assign this
Agreement (1) to any person or entity owned or controlled by an employee benefit
plan if Seller's sale of the Property to such person or entity would, in the
reasonable opinion of Seller's ERISA advisor, create or otherwise cause a
"prohibited transaction" under ERISA and (2) in any manner that is not in
compliance with laws, rules and regulations of any governmental authority having
jurisdiction thereof (including, but not limited to, the US Department of
Treasury Office of Foreign Assets Control and the US Patriot Act). Any transfer,
directly or indirectly, of any stock, partnership interest or other ownership
interest in Purchaser shall constitute an assignment of this Agreement. The
provisions of this Section 10.3 shall survive the Closing or any termination of
this Agreement.

      SECTION 10.4 Notices. Any notice pursuant to this Agreement shall be given
in writing by (a) personal delivery, (b) reputable overnight delivery service
with proof of delivery, (c) United States Mail, postage prepaid, registered or
certified mail, return receipt requested, or (d) legible facsimile transmission,
sent to the intended addressee at the address set forth below, or to such other
address or to the attention of such other person as the addressee shall have
designated by written notice sent in accordance herewith, and shall be deemed to
have been given upon receipt or refusal to accept delivery, or, in the case of
facsimile transmission, as of the date of the facsimile transmission provided
that an original of such facsimile is also sent to the intended addressee by

means described in clauses (a), (b) or (c) above. Unless changed in accordance
with the preceding sentence, the addresses for notices given pursuant to this
Agreement shall be as follows:

If to Seller:                       Metropolitan Tower Life Insurance Company
                                    c/o Metropolitan Life Insurance Company
                                    10 Park Avenue
                                    Morristown, New Jersey  07962
                                    Attn: David V. Politano
                                          Vice President
                                    Fax Number: (973) 355-4460

with a copy to:                     Metropolitan Life Insurance Company
                                    10 Park Avenue
                                    Morristown, New Jersey  07962
                                    Attn: William P. Gardella, Esq.
         Senior Associate General Counsel
         Real Estate Investments
                                    Fax Number: (973) 355-4920

If to Purchaser:                    c/o Tishman Speyer Properties, L.P.
                           520 Madison Avenue, 6th Floor
                           New York, New York 10022
                           Attention: Chief Legal Officer
                           Fax Number: (212) 588-1895

with a copy to:                     c/o Tishman Speyer Properties, L.P.
                           520 Madison Avenue, 6th Floor
                           New York, New York 10022
                           Attention: Chief Financial Officer
                           Fax Number: (212) 588-1895

and a copy to:                      Fried, Frank, Harris, Shriver & Jacobson LLP
                           One New York Plaza
                           New York, New York 10004
                           Attention: Jonathan L. Mechanic, Esq.
                           Fax Number: (212) 859-4000

      SECTION 10.5 Modifications. This Agreement cannot be changed orally, and
no executory agreement shall be effective to waive, change, modify or discharge
it in whole or in part unless such executory agreement is in writing and is
signed by the parties against whom enforcement of any waiver, change,
modification or discharge is sought.

      SECTION 10.6 Entire Agreement. This Agreement, including the exhibits and
schedules hereto, contains the entire agreement between the parties hereto
pertaining to the subject matter hereof and fully supersedes all prior written
or oral agreements and understandings between the

parties pertaining to such subject matter, other than any confidentiality
agreement executed by Purchaser in connection with the Property.

      SECTION 10.7 Further Assurances. Each party agrees that it will execute
and deliver such other documents and take such other action, whether prior or
subsequent to Closing, as may be reasonably requested by the other party to
consummate the transaction contemplated by this Agreement. The provisions of
this Section 10.7 shall survive Closing.

      SECTION 10.8 Counterparts. This Agreement may be executed in counterparts,
all such executed counterparts shall constitute the same agreement, and the
signature of any party to any counterpart shall be deemed a signature to, and
may be appended to, any other counterpart.

      SECTION 10.9 Facsimile Signatures. In order to expedite the transaction
contemplated herein, telecopied signatures may be used in place of original
signatures on this Agreement. Seller and Purchaser intend to be bound by the
signatures on the telecopied document, are aware that the other party will rely
on the telecopied signatures, and hereby waive any defenses to the enforcement
of the terms of this Agreement based on the form of signature.

      SECTION 10.10 Severability. If any provision of this Agreement is
determined by a court of competent jurisdiction to be invalid or unenforceable,
the remainder of this Agreement shall nonetheless remain in full force and
effect; provided that the invalidity or unenforceability of such provision does
not materially adversely affect the benefits accruing to any party hereunder.

      SECTION 10.11 Applicable Law. This Agreement shall be governed by and
construed in accordance with the laws of the State in which the Property is
located. Purchaser and Seller agree that the provisions of this Section 10.11
shall survive the Closing or any termination of this Agreement.

      SECTION 10.12 No Third-Party Beneficiary. The provisions of this Agreement
and of the documents to be executed and delivered at Closing are and will be for
the benefit of Seller and Purchaser only and are not for the benefit of any
third party, and accordingly, no third party shall have the right to enforce the
provisions of this Agreement or of the documents to be executed and delivered at
Closing.

      SECTION 10.13 Captions. The section headings appearing in this Agreement
are for convenience of reference only and are not intended, to any extent and
for any purpose, to limit or define the text of any section or any subsection
hereof.

      SECTION 10.14 Construction. The parties acknowledge that the parties and
their counsel have reviewed and revised this Agreement and that the normal rule
of construction to the effect that any ambiguities are to be resolved against
the drafting party shall not be employed in the interpretation of this Agreement
or any exhibits or amendments hereto.

      SECTION 10.15 Recordation. This Agreement may not be recorded by any party
hereto. The provisions of this Section 10.15 shall survive the Closing or any
termination of this Agreement.

SECTION 10.16 Audit Rights and Tenant Reconciliation Statements . For a
period of three (3) years after the Closing, Purchaser shall allow Seller and
its agents and representatives access without charge to (i) all files, records,
and documents delivered to Purchaser at the Closing, and (ii) the financial
records and financial statements for the Property (including but not limited to,
financial records and financial statements related to the Reconciliation
Statements, as such term is hereinafter defined) for the calendar year in which
the Closing occurs and for the calendar year preceding the calendar year in
which the Closing occurs, upon reasonable advance notice and at all reasonable
times, to examine and to make copies of any and all such files, records,
documents, and statements, which right shall survive the Closing. Purchaser
shall prepare and provide to the tenants under the Leases a statement of the
reconciliation of expenses between the landlord and the tenants under the Leases
in accordance with the terms of the Leases (the "RECONCILIATION STATEMENTS"),
and Purchaser shall provide Seller with copies of the Reconciliation Statements
at the same time that they are furnished to the Tenants. If amounts are due from
any Tenants based on the Reconciliation Statements, Purchaser shall make a good
faith effort after Closing to collect the same in the usual course of
Purchaser's operation of the Property, and upon collection, to remit to Seller,
Seller's share of those amounts in accordance with the terms of Section 4.4
hereof; however, Purchaser shall not be obligated to institute any lawsuit or
other collection procedures to collect said amounts. Seller may attempt to
collect amounts due to it pursuant to the reconciliation of expenses between the
landlord and the tenants in accordance with the terms of the Leases, and Seller
may institute any lawsuit or collection procedures, but Seller may not evict any
tenant after Closing. The provisions of this Section 10.16 shall survive the
Closing.

      SECTION 10.17 Termination of Agreement. If this Agreement is terminated by
Purchaser or Seller in accordance with any of the provisions of this Agreement
that give Purchaser or Seller the right to terminate this Agreement, then
neither party shall have any further rights or obligations hereunder (except for
indemnity obligations of either party pursuant to the other provisions of this
Agreement) and the Deposit shall be returned to Purchaser and each party shall
bear its own costs incurred hereunder.

      SECTION 10.18 1031 Exchange. Purchaser agrees to reasonably cooperate with
Seller (without liability or cost to Purchaser) in Seller's efforts to
consummate the sale of the Property in a manner which qualifies as a so-called
"deferred" or "like-kind" exchange pursuant to Section 1031 of the Internal
Revenue Code for Seller, one or more of Seller's partners or principals, or of
any affiliate thereof (a "SELLER 1031 EXCHANGE"). Such cooperation shall
include, without limitation, acquiring the Property or any portion thereof or
interest therein from a qualified intermediary, Seller assigning all or any
portion of its rights and/or obligations under this Agreement to a qualified
intermediary and Purchaser paying all or any portion of the Purchase Price to a
qualified intermediary. Seller shall fully indemnify, defend and hold Purchaser
harmless from and against any and all liability, claims, damages, expenses
(including, without limitation, reasonable attorneys' fees other than those
incurred prior to Closing to review documents to facilitate the Seller 1031
Exchange), taxes, fees, proceedings and causes of action of any kind or nature
whatsoever arising out of, connected with or in any manner related to such
Seller 1031 Exchange. The provisions of the immediately preceding sentence shall
survive Closing and the transfer of the Property to Purchaser.

      SECTION 10.19. Transfer Fee.

(A) As additional consideration for the conveyance of the Property,
Purchaser shall pay to Seller 100% of the Net Gain on any Transfer that occurs
from and after the Closing Date to the first anniversary of the Closing Date, as
follows:

            (i) "Transfer" means any direct or indirect transfer of the Property
which results in the Property not being controlled by Tishman Speyer Property,
L.P., Tishman Speyer Real Estate Venture VI, L.P. and/or any affiliate thereof.
The term "Transfer" does not include any of the foregoing to an Affiliated Party
(as hereinafter defined), and does not include (1) any mortgage loan or
mezzanine loan made substantially on institutional loan terms or any preferred
equity investment in Purchaser. An "affiliate" for purposes of this Section
means, when used with reference to a specified party, any person or entity that
directly or indirectly controls, or is controlled by, or is under common control
with the specified party.

            (ii) A Transfer shall be deemed to have occurred upon the delivery
of a deed, assignment, stock purchase agreement, merger certificate or other
evidence of such Transfer to the transferee or its agent or designee and payment
of consideration therefor. A Transfer pursuant to an option or similar contract
described in item (A)(i)(c) above shall be deemed to have occurred upon the
exercise of the applicable option, the delivery (if applicable) of a deed,
assignment or other evidence of such Transfer to the transferee or its agent or
designee and payment of consideration therefor.

            (iii) "Net Gain" with respect to any asset or interest subject to a
Transfer is the excess, as of the date of such Transfer, of (a) the fair market
value of the gross consideration (including, without limitation, cash and all
other property, notes, securities, contracts, and instruments) given to or for
the benefit of Purchaser or any direct or indirect holder of an interest in
Purchaser (other than the sale of stock in any publicly held company) or the
Property in connection with the Transfer of such asset or interest over (b) the
sum of (1) all reasonable Transfer expenses, such as legal fees, brokerage
commissions, transfer taxes, recording fees, and other fees for customary
transfer services paid to parties unrelated to Purchaser, the transferor, and
the transferee in connection with the Transfer of such asset or interest, plus
(2) the product of the Cost Percentage indicated below for such asset or
interest multiplied by the Purchase Price, plus (3) the unamortized portion of
any additional capitalized or expensed investment fully paid by Purchaser (as
evidenced to the reasonable satisfaction of Seller) after the Closing Date and
prior to the Transfer which is attributable to such asset or interest.

            (iv) If the entire Property or all of the ownership interests in
Purchaser are the subject of a Transfer, the Cost Percentage shall be one
hundred percent (100%). If the interest subject to a Transfer represents less
than one hundred percent of the ownership interest in Purchaser, the applicable
Cost Percentage for such Transfer shall be equal to the percentage of ownership
interest being transferred.

            (B) The additional consideration payable by Purchaser to Seller
under this Section 10.19 shall be due and payable by wire transfer of
immediately available funds (to an account designated by Seller) within ten (10)
days after the date the Transfer occurs, whether or not the gross consideration
given in connection for Transfer is in cash or non-cash form.

(C) Any dispute arising from or in any way relating to this Section
10.19, including breach thereof, shall be determined in a federal or state court
in the City of New York, to which Purchaser and Seller hereby submit for
jurisdiction; provided, that by written notice to Purchaser given within twenty
(20) days after Seller has been served with a complaint which has been filed in
court, Seller may in its sole and absolute discretion cause such dispute to be
resolved instead by expedited arbitration in accord with the Commercial
Arbitration Rules for Expedited Procedures of the American Arbitration
Association by a single arbitrator who is appointed by the President of the Real
Estate Board of New York and has no affiliation with any party to such dispute.

            (D) The provisions of this Section 10.19 shall survive Closing.

      SECTION 10.20. Exculpation. Seller agrees that it does not have and will
not have any claims or causes of action against any disclosed or undisclosed
officer, director, employee, trustee, shareholder, partner, principal, parent,
subsidiary or other affiliate of Purchaser, including, without limitation,
Tishman Speyer Properties, L.P., or any officer of, director, employee, trustee,
shareholder, partner or principal of a any such parent, subsidiary or other
affiliate (collectively, "PURCHASER'S AFFILIATE"), arising out of or in
connection with this Agreement or the transactions contemplated hereby. Seller
agrees to look solely to Purchaser and its assets for the satisfaction of any
liability or obligation arising under this Agreement or the transactions
contemplated hereby, or for the performance of any of the covenants, warranties
or other agreements contained herein, and further agrees not to sue or otherwise
seek to enforce any personal obligation against any of Purchaser's Affiliates
with respect to any matters arising out of or in connection with this Agreement
or the transactions contemplated hereby. Without limiting the generality of the
foregoing provisions of this Section 10.20, Seller hereby unconditionally and
irrevocably waives any and all claims and causes of action of any nature
whatsoever it may now or hereafter have against Purchaser's Affiliates, and
hereby unconditionally and irrevocably releases and discharges Purchaser's
Affiliates from any and all liability whatsoever which may now or hereafter
accrue in favor of Seller against Purchaser's Affiliates, in connection with or
arising out of this Agreement or the transactions contemplated hereby. The
provisions of this Section 10.20 shall survive the termination of this Agreement
and the Closing.

      IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto have duly executed this Agreement
as of the Effective Date.

SELLER:

METROPOLITAN TOWER LIFE INSURANCE COMPANY,
a Delaware corporation

By: /s/ Robert R. Merck
    -------------------
Name: Robert R. Merck
Title: Vice President

PURCHASER:

TISHMAN SPEYER DEVELOPMENT, L.L.C.,
a Delaware limited liability company

By: /s/ Robert Speyer
    --------------------------
Name:
Title:

Escrow Agent executes this Agreement below solely for the purpose of
acknowledging that it agrees to be bound by the provisions of Sections 1.6 and
1.7 hereof.

ESCROW AGENT:

JPMorgan Chase Bank, N.A.,
a national banking association

By: /s/ Jason M. Orben
    -----------------------
Name:  Jason M. Orben
Title: Vice President

</EX-10.98>

<EX-10.101>
 31
 y87657exv10w101.txt
 EX-10.101

[EXECUTION COPY]

================================================================================

                         DOMESTIC DISTRIBUTION AGREEMENT

                                 BY AND BETWEEN

                                 CITIGROUP INC.

                                       AND

                                  METLIFE, INC.

                               AS OF JULY 1, 2005

================================================================================

TABLE OF CONTENTS

DOMESTIC DISTRIBUTION AGREEMENT

      THIS DOMESTIC DISTRIBUTION AGREEMENT (this "Agreement"), dated as of July
1, 2005, is made by and between Citigroup Inc., a Delaware corporation
("Parent"), and MetLife, Inc., a Delaware corporation ("Purchaser").

      WHEREAS, Purchaser and certain of its Affiliates provide insurance and
annuity products throughout the United States and in numerous countries around
the world;

      WHEREAS, Parent, through its Affiliates, has an extensive proprietary
distribution network that distributes, on behalf of insurance companies,
insurance and annuity products throughout the United States and in numerous
countries around the world;

      WHEREAS, Parent and Purchaser have entered into an Acquisition Agreement,
dated as of January 31, 2005 (the "Acquisition Agreement"), pursuant to which
Purchaser will acquire on the terms and subject to the conditions set forth
therein, all of the outstanding shares of capital stock of certain subsidiaries
of, and the equity interests owned by Parent in certain joint ventures of,
Parent or its Affiliates, including the Travelers Insurers;

      WHEREAS, in connection with the transactions contemplated by the
Acquisition Agreement, the parties hereto desire to enter into a distribution
relationship outside the United States pursuant to an International Distribution
Agreement to be entered into on the date hereof and the distribution
relationship inside the United States contemplated by this Agreement;

      WHEREAS, this Agreement has been restated from the form hereof attached to
the Acquisition Agreement; and

      WHEREAS, the execution and delivery of this Agreement is a condition to
closing of the transactions contemplated by the Acquisition Agreement.

      NOW, THEREFORE, in consideration of the mutual covenants, agreements and
promises herein contained, the parties do hereby agree as follows:

                                   ARTICLE I.
                                  DEFINITIONS

      Section 1.1. Defined Terms. For purposes of this Agreement, unless the
context requires otherwise, the following terms shall have the following
meanings:

      "Acquisition Agreement" has the meaning set forth in the recitals hereto.

      "Affiliate" shall mean, with respect to any Person, any other Person that
directly or indirectly, through one or more intermediaries, controls, is
controlled by or is under common control with such first Person. The term
"control" (including its correlative meanings "controlled by" and "under common
control with") shall mean possession, directly or indirectly, of power to direct
or cause the direction of management or policies (whether through ownership of
securities or partnership or other ownership interests, by contract or
otherwise).

      "Agreement" shall have the meaning set forth in the introductory paragraph
hereof.

"Comparable Distributor" shall mean a distributor using a substantially
similar approach to the marketing, servicing, sales support and overall
distribution of products.

      "Competitive" means (i) the terms, total compensation, customer appeal,
consumer pricing and value, wholesaler coverage, training and support, features
and service standards and metrics of the applicable product, taken as a whole,
are at least equivalent to those of other comparable products, considered as a
group, then distributed by the applicable Domestic Parent Distributor and (ii)
the financial strength rating of the applicable provider is substantially
similar to the other providers (considered as a group) then providing such
comparable products to such Domestic Parent Distributor.

      "Confidential Information" shall have the meaning set forth in Section
4.2(b).

      "Domestic Exclusive Parent Distributor" means each Domestic Parent
Distributor to which a Travelers Insurer is the exclusive provider of any
Product on the date of this Agreement and such Person's successors and assigns.

      "Domestic Parent Distributor" means (i) any Person Affiliated with Parent
that, as of the date hereof, distributes any Product that a Travelers Insurer
offers in the United States and such Person's successors and assigns and (ii)
from and after the time of its acquisition by Parent or an Affiliate of Parent,
a Target Affiliated Distributor that distributes any life insurance or annuity
products for any Purchaser Insurer pursuant to Section 3.6(b), and such Target
Affiliated Distributor's successors and assigns.

      "Domestic Selling Agreements" has the meaning set forth in Section 3.1.

      "Exclusive Products" means the Products designated on Schedule 3.2(a) as
being subject to an exclusive relationship.

      "Existing Product" has the meaning set forth in Section 3.5(d).

      "First Term" means the five-year period commencing on the date of this
Agreement and ending on the fifth anniversary of the date of this Agreement.

      "Indemnified Party" has the meaning set forth in Section 6.4.

      "Indemnifying Party" has the meaning set forth in Section 6.4.

      "Law" shall have the meaning set forth in the Acquisition Agreement.

      "Level Playing Field" means, with respect to a product, Parent (i) shall,
and shall cause any Domestic Parent Distributor entering into a Domestic Selling
Agreement with respect to such product pursuant to Section 3.1 to, afford the
same access to its distribution platforms for such product offered by a
Travelers Insurer (or a Purchaser Insurer, as applicable) as the access it
affords to comparable products offered by a Third Party Insurer and (ii) shall
not, and shall cause its Affiliates (including the Domestic Parent Distributors)
not to, provide to its Sales Force any compensation or other economic inducement
or benefit for the sale of comparable products sold in a comparable sales
support and compensation framework offered by a Third Party Insurer that are
more favorable than the compensation or other economic inducements or benefits
provided to such Sales Force for the sale of such products offered by a
Travelers Insurer (or a Purchaser Insurer, as applicable); provided, that a
Level Playing Field may include variations in Sales Force compensation that are
(x) based upon neutral criteria that do not differentiate between product
providers, such as achieving sales volume or persistency objectives, or (y) for
products

                                       2

(including combined product and service arrangements) for which distributor
compensation is negotiated by the provider on a sale-by-sale basis, such as
group retirement products.

      "Licensing Agreement" shall have the meaning set forth in the Acquisition
Agreement.

      "Losses" has the meaning set forth in Section 6.1.

      "Marks" shall mean the Parent Distributor Marks, as defined in the
Licensing Agreement in respect of this Agreement, including "PrimElite",
"Blueprint", "Vintage" and "Marquis."

      "New Products" means, (i) with respect to each Domestic Parent
Distributor, any life insurance or annuity product that a Purchaser Insurer is
authorized to offer but was not included among the types of insurance or annuity
products distributed by such Domestic Parent Distributor on the date of this
Agreement and (ii) any products offered by a Purchaser Insurer pursuant to
arrangements contemplated by Section 3.6(b). For avoidance of doubt, (i) the
addition of new features to Products shall not constitute New Products in whole
or in part, regardless of whether any insurance regulatory filing is required in
connection therewith and (ii) the following products shall not be deemed to be
New Products with respect to PFSI: long-term care insurance, prepaid legal
services and individual term life insurance the primary purpose of which is
protection rather than investment.

      "Non-Exclusive Products" has the meaning set forth in Section 3.3.

      "Parent" has the meaning set forth in the introductory paragraph hereof.

      "Parent Indemnified Parties" has the meaning set forth in Section 6.1.

      "Parent Standards and Practices" means the client service and relationship
standards, business practices, ethical standards, customer privacy and
protection policies and general service quality standards, reputational
considerations and industry standards, as determined from time to time by Parent
or any of its Affiliates, provided that such Parent Standards and Practices, to
the extent they relate to a Product or New Product and/or Domestic Parent
Distributor, shall be applied, and changes thereto shall be made, without
discriminating in any material manner against any Travelers Insurer or Purchaser
Insurer, as applicable, relative to all other similarly situated providers of
such Products or New Products distributed by such Domestic Parent Distributor.

      "Person" shall have the meaning set forth in the Acquisition Agreement.

      "PFSI" has the meaning set forth in Section 3.5(b).

      "PLP Distributor" has the meaning set forth in Section 3.4(b).

      "Private Label Product" means a life insurance or annuity product
customized for a Domestic Parent Distributor that (i) is branded under the name
of a Domestic Parent Distributor or (ii) is a variable life insurance or
variable annuity contract that offers as an option more than two investment
choices or mutual funds that are advised or managed by Parent or a Parent
Affiliate (or any successor to the Parent or a Parent Affiliate of substantially
all of the business or assets of the Parent or such Parent Affiliate which
relate primarily to the asset management business), including a Domestic Parent
Distributor (in all cases in the capacity of either an advisor or sub-advisor).
For the avoidance of doubt and without limitation, a Private Label Product
(whether existing on the date of this Agreement or thereafter) shall be deemed a
Product for all purposes under this Agreement.

                                       3

"Products" means the life insurance and annuity products issued by the
Travelers Insurers and distributed through the Domestic Parent Distributors on
the date of this Agreement which are listed on Schedule 3.2(a), and any
Substitute Products distributed in replacement thereof pursuant to Section
3.5(d).

      "Purchaser" shall have the meaning set forth in the introductory paragraph
hereof.

      "Purchaser Indemnified Parties" has the meaning set forth in Section 6.2.

      "Purchaser Insurer" means any insurance company Affiliate of Purchaser,
including the Travelers Insurers.

      "Sales Force" means those point of sale representatives and their direct
supervisors utilized by Parent, Domestic Parent Distributors or one of their
respective Affiliates whose job responsibility includes the sale or promotion of
Products or New Products offered by a Travelers Insurer (or a Purchaser Insurer,
as applicable).

      "Second Term" means the five-year period commencing upon the expiration of
the First Term and ending on the tenth anniversary of the date of this
Agreement.

      "Substitute Product" has the meaning set forth in Section 3.5(d).

      "Target Affiliated Distributor" means any Person Affiliated with Parent
that (i) was an Affiliate of a Target Business (as defined in the Acquisition
Agreement) immediately prior to the acquisition of such Target Business by
Parent or an Affiliate of Parent and (ii) is engaged in the business of
distributing financial services products.

      "Term" has the meaning set forth in Section 5.1.

      "Third Party Claim" has the meaning set forth in Section 6.4.

      "Third Party Insurer" means an insurance company that is not Affiliated
with Purchaser.

      "Travelers Insurers" means the Domestic Insurance Companies (as defined in
the Acquisition Agreement) to be acquired by Purchaser pursuant to the
Acquisition Agreement and their successors and assigns, and with respect to a
Substitute Product that is offered pursuant to Section 3.5(d), a Purchaser
Insurer and its successors and assigns.

      Section 1.2. Purposes of Agreement. Notwithstanding anything in this
Agreement to the contrary, Purchaser and Parent agree that this Agreement is
intended to set forth certain principal business terms upon which they will
enter into Domestic Selling Agreements during the Term and that nothing herein
creates a Domestic Selling Agreement.

      Section 1.3. Construction. For the purposes of this Agreement: (i) words
(including capitalized terms defined herein) in the singular shall be held to
include the plural and vice versa, and words (including capitalized terms
defined herein) of one gender shall be held to include the other gender as the
context requires; (ii) the terms "hereof," "herein" and "herewith" and words of
similar import shall, unless otherwise stated, be construed to refer to this
Agreement as a whole (including all of the Schedules) and not to any particular
provision of this Agreement, and Article, Section, paragraph and Schedule
references are to the Articles, Sections, paragraphs and Schedules to this
Agreement, unless otherwise specified; (iii) the word "including" and words of
similar import when used in this Agreement shall mean "including, without
limitation"; (iv) all references to any period of days shall be deemed to be to
the relevant number of calendar days

                                       4

unless otherwise specified; and (v) "commercially reasonable efforts" shall not
require a waiver by any party of any material rights or any action or omission
that would be a breach of this Agreement.

      Section 1.4. Headings. The Article and Section headings contained in this
Agreement are inserted for convenience of reference only and shall not affect
the meaning or interpretation of this Agreement.

                                   ARTICLE II.
                         REPRESENTATIONS AND WARRANTIES

      Section 2.1. Representations and Warranties of Parent. Parent hereby
represents and warrants to Purchaser as set forth below.

            (a) Parent is a corporation duly organized, validly existing and in
good standing under the laws of its state of incorporation.

            (b) Parent has all necessary corporate power and authority to make,
execute and deliver this Agreement and to perform all of the obligations to be
performed by it hereunder. The making, execution, delivery and performance by
Parent of this Agreement and the consummation by Parent of the transactions
contemplated hereby have been duly and validly authorized by all necessary
corporate action on the part of Parent. This Agreement has been duly and validly
executed and delivered by Parent, and assuming the due authorization, execution
and delivery by Purchaser, this Agreement will constitute the valid, legal and
binding obligation of Parent, enforceable against it in accordance with its
terms, except as may be subject to applicable bankruptcy, insolvency, moratorium
or other similar Laws, now or hereafter in effect, relating to or affecting the
rights of creditors generally and by legal and equitable limitations on the
enforceability of specific remedies.

            (c) Neither the execution and delivery of this Agreement by Parent,
nor the consummation of the transactions contemplated hereby, will (i) violate
or conflict with any provision of the articles of incorporation or bylaws or
other organizational documents of Parent or any Domestic Parent Distributor,
(ii) violate any of the terms, conditions, or provisions of any Law or license
to which Parent or any Domestic Parent Distributor is subject or by which it or
any Domestic Parent Distributor or any of its or their assets are bound, or
(iii) violate, breach, or constitute a default under any contract to which
Parent or any Domestic Parent Distributor is a party or by which it or any
Domestic Parent Distributor or any of its or their assets is bound. The
distribution of any Products offered by a Travelers Insurer and distributed by a
Domestic Parent Distributor on the date hereof does not violate, breach, or
constitute a default under any contract to which Parent or any Domestic Parent
Distributor is a party or by which any of them or any of their respective assets
is bound.

            (d) None of the arrangements by which any Domestic Parent
Distributor distributes any Products on behalf of a Travelers Insurer in force
on the date of this Agreement violates any of the Parent Standards and Practices
in effect on such date.

      Section 2.2. Representations and Warranties of Purchaser. Purchaser hereby
represents and warrants to Parent as set forth below.

                                       5

(a) Purchaser is a corporation duly organized, validly existing and
in good standing under the laws of its state of incorporation.

            (b) Purchaser has all necessary corporate power and authority to
make, execute and deliver this Agreement and to perform all of the obligations
to be performed by it hereunder. The making, execution, delivery and performance
by Purchaser of this Agreement and the consummation by Purchaser of the
transactions contemplated hereby have been duly and validly authorized by all
necessary corporate action on the part of Purchaser. This Agreement has been
duly and validly executed and delivered by Purchaser, and assuming the due
authorization, execution and delivery by Parent, this Agreement will constitute
the valid, legal and binding obligation of Purchaser, enforceable against it in
accordance with its terms, except as may be subject to applicable bankruptcy,
insolvency, moratorium or other similar Laws, now or hereafter in effect,
relating to or affecting the rights of creditors generally and by legal and
equitable limitations on the enforceability of specific remedies.

            (c) Neither the execution and delivery of this Agreement by
Purchaser, nor the consummation of the transactions contemplated hereby, will
(i) violate or conflict with any provision of the articles of incorporation or
bylaws or other organizational documents of Purchaser or any Purchaser Insurer
(other than the Travelers Insurers), (ii) violate any of the terms, conditions,
or provisions of any Law or license to which Purchaser is subject or by which it
or any of its assets is bound, or (iii) violate, breach, or constitute a default
under any contract to which Purchaser is a party or by which it or any of its
assets is bound.

                                  ARTICLE III.
                             DOMESTIC DISTRIBUTION

      Section 3.1. Selling Agreements. In order to effectuate the distribution
arrangements contemplated hereby among the Travelers Insurers (and Purchaser
Insurers, as applicable) and the Domestic Parent Distributors for distribution
of the Products and New Products offered by the Travelers Insurers (and
Purchaser Insurers, as applicable) within the United States, Parent shall cause
the Domestic Parent Distributors, and Purchaser shall cause the Travelers
Insurers (and Purchaser Insurers, as applicable), to negotiate in good faith and
enter into written selling agreements that are consistent with industry practice
and with the principles set forth in this Agreement and that contain terms and
conditions taken as a whole that are no less favorable to the Travelers Insurers
(and Purchaser Insurers, as applicable) and the Domestic Parent Distributors
than the terms and conditions of the selling and selling-related arrangements
existing on the date of this Agreement between the Travelers Insurers and the
Domestic Parent Distributors (the "Domestic Selling Agreements"). For each
Domestic Parent Distributor that distributes a Product for a Travelers Insurer
on the date of this Agreement, a Domestic Selling Agreement for the distribution
of such Product, to take effect on the date of this Agreement, shall be executed
and delivered by such Domestic Parent Distributor and the applicable Travelers
Insurer on or prior to the date of this Agreement. The Domestic Selling
Agreements will contain provisions concerning the periodic readjustment of
compensation as agreed by the parties thereto.

                                       6

Section 3.2. Exclusive Distribution Arrangements.

            (a) Parent represents and warrants that Schedule 3.2(a) sets forth a
complete and accurate list of all life insurance and annuity products issued by
a Travelers Insurer and distributed by a Domestic Parent Distributor in the
United States on behalf of a Travelers Insurer on the date of this Agreement,
the identity of each Domestic Parent Distributor that distributes each such
product and whether or not a Travelers Insurer is the exclusive provider of such
product to such Domestic Parent Distributor.

            (b) During the First Term, each Travelers Insurer shall have the
right to be the exclusive provider in the United States of any Exclusive Product
to any Domestic Exclusive Parent Distributor. During the Second Term, each
Travelers Insurer shall have the right to be a provider, on a non-exclusive,
Level Playing Field basis, to each Domestic Exclusive Parent Distributor of each
Exclusive Product distributed by such Domestic Exclusive Parent Distributor on
the date of this Agreement. During the First Term, Parent shall not make any
change in the Parent Standards and Practices (except changes that may be
reasonably appropriate to comply with applicable Law) that would conflict with
the rights granted to the Travelers Insurers under the first sentence of this
Section 3.2(b).

            (c) Notwithstanding anything herein to the contrary (including,
without limitation, Section 3.5(d)), prior to the earlier of (i) the end of the
60-day period beginning on the date of this Agreement and (ii) December 31,
2005, (x) Purchaser shall cause the Exclusive Products to be marketed under the
brand name and with such trademarks or trade names (including the identity of
the underwriter of such Exclusive Product) as used on the date of this Agreement
and (y) no Purchaser Insurer shall be permitted to provide a Substitute Product
in place of an Exclusive Product.

      Section 3.3. Non-Exclusive Distribution Arrangements. If any Travelers
Insurer is a non-exclusive provider of a Product to any Domestic Parent
Distributor on the date of this Agreement (the "Non-Exclusive Products"), such
Travelers Insurer shall have the right to be a provider of such Product, on a
non-exclusive, Level Playing Field basis, to such Domestic Parent Distributor
during the Term.

      Section 3.4. Private Label Products.

            (a) If any Travelers Insurer is the provider of a Private Label
Product to a Domestic Parent Distributor on the date of this Agreement, such
Travelers Insurer shall have the right to be the provider of such Private Label
Product during the Term.

            (b) Subject to the last sentence of this Section 3.4(b), if, prior
to the seventh anniversary of the date of this Agreement, any Domestic Parent
Distributor desires to distribute, as a Private Label Product, a life insurance
product (other than term life insurance) or annuity product that it does not
distribute as a Private Label Product on the date of this Agreement, Parent
shall cause such Domestic Parent Distributor (a "PLP Distributor") to notify
Purchaser no later than the time of notification of any Third Party Insurer. If
the PLP Distributor does not select a Purchaser Insurer as the provider of the
new Private Label Product and the PLP Distributor desires to continue to seek a
Third Party Insurer, as the provider, Parent shall cause

                                       7

the PLP Distributor to include the Purchaser Insurers in the process for
selection of such provider (whether by formal request for proposals or
otherwise) to provide such Private Label Product prior to selecting a Third
Party Insurer. Parent shall cause the PLP Distributor to entertain in good
faith, and on terms no less favorable than those extended to any other proposed
provider, proposals from the Purchaser Insurers to provide such new Private
Label Product. Such PLP Distributor (i) shall have exclusive discretion in
determining the process for selection of, and the criteria for evaluation of,
potential providers of any such Private Label Product and (ii) shall make a good
faith determination of the relative suitability of proposals from potential
providers for satisfying the requirements of such Private Label Product (it
being understood that if such PLP Distributor determines that a proposal from a
Purchaser Insurer satisfies such requirements, considered as a whole, at least
as well as the most favorable proposal or proposals of the other potential
providers, such Purchaser Insurer's proposal shall be selected); provided,
however, that such PLP Distributor shall not be required to select any such
proposal. The rights granted to the Purchaser Insurers under this Section 3.4(b)
shall not apply with respect to any new Private Label Product if an insurance
company not Affiliated with Parent or Purchaser contacts or approaches the
Domestic Parent Distributor, without solicitation by such Domestic Parent
Distributor relating to such Private Label Product, about developing or the
possibility of developing such Private Label Product. Notwithstanding the
foregoing, but subject to Section 3.5, nothing in this Section 3.4 shall be
construed to limit such Domestic Parent Distributor's ability to offer Products
substantially the same as any Private Label Product on a non-private label
basis.

      Section 3.5. New Products; Additional Products; Substitute Products.

            (a) At any time during the Term, (i) Purchaser may propose to a
Domestic Parent Distributor that such Domestic Parent Distributor or one or more
of its Affiliates distribute a New Product offered by a Purchaser Insurer and
(ii) a Domestic Parent Distributor may propose to Purchaser that such Domestic
Parent Distributor or one or more of its Affiliates distribute a New Product
offered by a Purchaser Insurer.

            (b) If, prior to the seventh anniversary of the date of this
Agreement, PFS Financial Services Inc. ("PFSI") desires to offer a New Product
on an exclusive basis, Parent shall cause PFSI to notify Purchaser no later than
the time of any notification of any Third Party Insurer. If PFSI does not select
a Purchaser Insurer as the provider of such New Product and PFSI desires to
continue to seek a Third Party Insurer, as the provider, Parent shall cause PFSI
to include the Purchaser Insurers in the process for selection of such provider
(whether by formal request for proposals or otherwise). Parent shall cause PFSI
to entertain in good faith, and on terms no less favorable than those extended
to any other proposed provider, proposals from the Purchaser Insurers to provide
such New Product. PFSI (i) shall have exclusive discretion in determining the
process for selection of, and the criteria for evaluation of, potential
providers of any such New Product and (ii) shall make a good faith determination
of the relative suitability of proposals from potential providers for satisfying
the requirements of such New Product (it being understood that if PFSI
determines that a proposal from a Purchaser Insurer satisfies such requirements,
considered as a whole, at least as well as the most favorable proposal or
proposals of the other potential providers, such Purchaser Insurer's proposal
shall be selected); provided, however, that PFSI shall not be required to select
any such proposal. The rights granted to the Purchaser Insurers under this
Section 3.5(b) shall not apply with respect to a New Product if an

                                       8

insurance company not Affiliated with Purchaser or Parent contacts or approaches
PFSI, without solicitation by PFSI relating to such New Product, about providing
or the possibility of providing such New Product to be provided on an exclusive
basis.

            (c) If, during the Term, any Domestic Parent Distributor proposes to
issue a formal written request for proposals to any Third Party Insurer that
involves any life insurance or annuity product that a Purchaser Insurer is
authorized to offer, Parent shall, and shall cause such Domestic Parent
Distributor to, give notice thereof to Purchaser and entertain proposals from
the Purchaser Insurers to be a provider to such Domestic Parent Distributor of
such product. Parent shall cause such Domestic Parent Distributors to consider
such proposals in good faith and on terms no less favorable than the terms
extended to any other proposed provider.

            (d) At any time during the Term, Purchaser may propose in writing
that any Purchaser Insurer offer, in place of any Product then offered by a
Travelers Insurer through a Domestic Parent Distributor (an "Existing Product"),
a substitute product and if (i) such Purchaser Insurer has been assigned a
financial strength rating of at least Aa3 by Moody's Investors Service, Inc. (or
any successor thereto) or at least AA- by Standard and Poor's (or any successor
thereto) and (ii) such substitute product is substantially the same as the
Existing Product in the terms, total compensation, consumer pricing, wholesaler
coverage, training and support, features and service standards and metrics (a
"Substitute Product"), then Parent shall cause such Domestic Parent Distributor
to distribute such Substitute Product in place of the Existing Product. The
Purchaser Insurer that offers such Substitute Product shall have the same rights
under this Agreement with respect to the Substitute Product as the Travelers
Insurer that offered the Existing Product possessed with respect to the Existing
Product. By way of illustration and without limiting the generality of the
foregoing, if the Travelers Insurer was entitled to provide the Existing Product
on a non-exclusive, Level Playing Field basis through the Domestic Parent
Distributor, the Purchaser Insurer shall be entitled to provide the Substitute
Product on a non-exclusive, Level Playing Field basis through such Domestic
Parent Distributor in place of such Existing Product. Parent shall cause the
applicable Domestic Parent Distributor and Purchaser shall cause the Purchaser
Insurer to enter into a Domestic Selling Agreement with respect to the
Substitute Product that is substantially the same as the Domestic Selling
Agreement with respect to the Existing Product. The Purchaser Insurer providing
the Substitute Product shall bear reasonable costs incurred by the applicable
Domestic Parent Distributor in connection with or arising out of the replacement
of the Existing Product with the Substitute Product.

      Section 3.6. Acquisitions.

            (a) Notwithstanding anything in this Agreement to the contrary, but
subject to Section 3.6(b), neither Parent nor any Domestic Parent Distributor
shall be (i) deemed to be in violation of this Agreement or any Domestic Selling
Agreement or (ii) obligated hereunder or under any Domestic Selling Agreement to
take any action (including to make any adjustment to commissions, economic
inducements or other benefits for the Sales Force), if such violation would
arise, or such action would be required to be taken, solely as a result of
Parent or one of its Affiliates acquiring assets or a business of any Person
engaged in the distribution of financial services products following the date of
this Agreement; provided, however, that nothing in this Section 3.6 (a) shall
limit or restrict any obligations that Parent or any Domestic Parent

                                       9

Distributor has to distribute on an exclusive basis a Product or a New Product
offered by a Purchaser Insurer if such Purchaser Insurer has the right under
this Agreement or any Domestic Selling Agreement to be the exclusive provider of
such Product or New Product to such Domestic Parent Distributor.

            (b) If, at any time prior to the seventh anniversary of the date of
this Agreement, (i) Parent acquires a Target Business (as defined in the
Acquisition Agreement), of which the net revenues and net earnings (in each
case, calculated in a manner consistent with Section 6.17(a)(x) of the
Acquisition Agreement, and, for the avoidance of doubt, excluding realized
gains) derived from a Competitive Business (as defined in the Acquisition
Agreement) are more than a de minimis amount, and (ii) Parent or its Affiliates
are permitted to acquire such Target Business pursuant to Sections 6.17(a)(x) or
6.17(a)(xi) of the Acquisition Agreement, then Purchaser through the Purchaser
Insurers shall have the right during the remainder of such seven-year period to
be a provider to each Target Affiliated Distributor, if any, on a non-exclusive
Level Playing Field basis, of any life insurance or annuity product that is
distributed by such Target Affiliated Distributor on a non-exclusive basis
either immediately before or following such acquisition; provided, that such
right shall be subject to any applicable contractual or other restrictions by
which such Target Affiliated Distributor is bound.

      Section 3.7. No Obligation. For the avoidance of doubt, nothing in this
Agreement or any Domestic Selling Agreement shall (i) impose upon any Purchaser
Insurer any obligation to distribute any Products or New Products offered by a
Purchaser Insurer through the Domestic Parent Distributors, (ii) impose upon
Parent or its Affiliates any obligation to provide to its or their employees any
Product or New Product issued by Purchaser or any Travelers Insurers, (iii)
restrict the ability of Purchaser or Parent or any of their Affiliates from
acquiring or disposing of any assets of, or reorganizing or consolidating, any
business, subject to the proviso in Section 3.6(a) or (iv) restrict the ability
of any Purchaser Insurer to distribute insurance or annuity products through
Persons other than Domestic Parent Distributors. Subject to Section 3.6(b),
nothing in this Agreement shall impose upon any Affiliate of Parent that becomes
an Affiliate of Parent after the date of this Agreement any obligation to
distribute any Product or New Product on behalf of a Purchaser Insurer. For the
avoidance of doubt, in the event any Domestic Parent Distributor ceases to be an
Affiliate of Parent, Parent's obligations under this Agreement with respect to
such Domestic Parent Distributor shall no longer be applicable.

                                  ARTICLE IV.
                              ACCESS AND BRANDING

      Section 4.1. Access.

            (a) To the extent that as of the date of this Agreement, a Domestic
Exclusive Parent Distributor permits wholesalers or Product representatives of
the Travelers Insurers to have access to such Domestic Exclusive Parent
Distributor, including its Sales Force, sales offices or sales, education or
training meetings that involve the promotion of Products made available by a
Travelers Insurer for distribution by such Domestic Exclusive Parent
Distributor, Parent shall, during the First Term, cause such Domestic Exclusive
Parent Distributor to continue to permit such access on the same terms and
conditions as on the date hereof in a manner consistent with applicable Law and
the Parent Standards and Practices. The applicable

                                       10

Purchaser Insurer providing the Exclusive Products shall continue during the
First Term to maintain wholesaler coverage, training, and sales support to the
Domestic Exclusive Parent Distributor on terms and conditions that are no less
favorable than those provided by the applicable Travelers Insurer to such
Domestic Exclusive Parent Distributor on the date of this Agreement.

            (b) To the extent that as of the date of this Agreement, a Domestic
Parent Distributor (other than a Domestic Exclusive Parent Distributor) permits
wholesalers, Product representatives or bank marketing representatives of the
Travelers Insurers to have access to such Domestic Parent Distributor, including
its Sales Force, bank branches, sales offices or sales, education or training
meetings that involve the promotion of Products made available by a Travelers
Insurer for distribution by such Domestic Parent Distributor, in a manner
consistent with applicable Law and with the Parent Standards and Practices,
Parent shall, until the third anniversary of the date hereof, cause such
Domestic Parent Distributor to provide such access on terms and conditions that
are no less favorable than those generally applicable to any Third Party
Insurer.

      Section 4.2. Branding; Use of Names; Confidential Information; Approval of
Certain Materials.

            (a) Unless otherwise provided in a Domestic Selling Agreement and,
in all cases in accordance with the terms and subject to the conditions of the
Licensing Agreement, during the Term, Purchaser shall cause all Purchaser
Insurers providing, and Parent shall cause all Domestic Parent Distributors
distributing, Products (including Private Label Products in respect of which any
Purchaser Insurer is the provider on the date of this Agreement) to cause such
Products distributed through a Domestic Parent Distributor to be offered and
branded utilizing the Marks that relate to each such Product as of the date of
this Agreement; provided that Purchaser and the Purchaser Insurers shall have
been granted adequate rights to use the Marks under the Licensing Agreement; and
provided, further, that the parties hereto agree that any trademark or trade
name on such product shall be appropriately altered to reflect any change to the
trademark or trade name of the applicable Domestic Parent Distributor and,
subject to Section 3.2(c), in the case of a Substitute Product, to reflect any
change that is required by Law as a result of the change in the issuer of such
Substitute Product. To the extent that a Private Label Product is distributed by
a PLP Distributor on behalf of a Purchaser Insurer after the date of this
Agreement in accordance with Section 3.4, then Parent shall cause such PLP
Distributor and Purchaser shall cause all Purchaser Insurers providing such
Private Label Product to cause such Private Label Product to be offered and
branded using such trademarks or trade names as may be applicable to such
Private Label Product by such PLP Distributor, provided that Purchaser and the
applicable Purchaser Insurers shall own or shall have been granted adequate
rights to use such trademarks or trade names.

            (b) During the Term of this Agreement, the Travelers Insurers and,
as applicable, the Purchaser Insurers will have access to confidential
information and other proprietary information ("Confidential Information") of
Parent and its Affiliates. Confidential Information includes, but is not limited
to, the names, addresses, telephone numbers and social security numbers of
applicants for, purchasers of and other customers of Products and New Products
as well as other identity and private information in respect of Parent's or its
Affiliates'

                                       11

customers, employees, representatives, and agents. Confidential Information
shall not include any customer information (i) that was previously known by a
Purchaser Insurer from a source other than any Domestic Parent Distributor
without obligations of confidence; or (ii) that was or is rightfully received by
a Purchaser Insurer from a third party without obligations of confidence to any
Domestic Parent Distributor or from publicly available sources without
obligations of confidence to any Domestic Parent Distributor; or (iii) that was
or is developed by means independent of information obtained from any Domestic
Parent Distributor. As a condition to such access, neither Purchaser nor any
Purchaser Insurer shall use, copy or disclose such Confidential Information in
any manner (including without limitation, to sell or cross-sell their products).
Confidential Information may be used to service Products and New Products,
including, as appropriate, to accept additional contributions and premium for
and to modify, add, or exchange coverage to any Product or New Product purchased
by a policy owner who purchased from a Domestic Parent Distributor. Purchaser
and its Affiliates shall take all appropriate action to ensure the protection,
confidentiality and security of such Confidential Information. The Purchaser and
its Affiliates acknowledge and agree that this Confidential Information is the
property of the Domestic Parent Distributors. The parties also understand that
the Purchaser Insurers may respond to inquiries from holders of Products or New
Products concerning other Purchaser Insurer products and services, provided
there was no solicitation of such inquiry using Confidential Information. The
parties also agree that this Section 4.2(b) shall not apply to individuals with
whom Purchaser or the Purchaser Insurers have a pre-existing relationship other
than through a Domestic Parent Distributor.

            (c) (i) Any marketing, training or other materials to be made
available by any Purchaser Insurer to any Domestic Parent Distributor's Sales
Force or customers in connection with Products and New Products (other than
ordinary course communications to policyholders and contract holders) shall be
made available only with the prior consent (which shall not be unreasonably
withheld or delayed) of the applicable Domestic Parent Distributor; provided
that all such materials that are used by the Travelers Insurers in connection
with the distribution of Products through the Domestic Parent Distributors on
the date of this Agreement shall not require any such consent. In the event that
the applicable Purchaser Insurer or the applicable Domestic Parent Distributor
determines to discontinue the use of any such materials, the parties shall
cooperate with the applicable Purchaser Insurer to ensure that such use is
discontinued by such Domestic Parent Distributor's Sales Force.

                (ii) Any marketing, training or other materials prepared by a
      Domestic Parent Distributor and to be made available by such Domestic
      Parent Distributor to its Sales Force or customers that describes any
      Purchaser Insurer or any of its Affiliates or any insurance or annuity
      product offered by any of them may be made available only with the prior
      consent (which shall not be unreasonably withheld or delayed) of the
      applicable Purchaser Insurer; provided that all such materials that are
      used by the Domestic Parent Distributors in connection with the
      distribution of Products on the date of this Agreement shall not require
      any such consent. In the event that the applicable Purchaser Insurer or
      the applicable Domestic Parent Distributor determines to discontinue the
      use of any such materials, the parties shall cooperate with the applicable
      Domestic Parent Distributor to ensure that such use is discontinued by its
      Sales Force.

                                       12

ARTICLE V.
                    TERM OF THE AGREEMENT; CERTAIN CONDITIONS

      Section 5.1. Term. The term of this Agreement (the "Term") will commence
on the date of this Agreement and shall continue until the tenth anniversary of
the date of this Agreement; provided, however, the expiration of this Agreement
shall not reduce or curtail the term of any Domestic Selling Agreement that
extends beyond the end of the Term.

      Section 5.2. Survival. Upon expiration of this Agreement, the provisions
of this Section 5.2 and Article VI and Article VII shall survive without
modification.

      Section 5.3. Certain Conditions.

            (a) Subject to Section 5.3(b), but notwithstanding anything else to
the contrary in this Agreement or in any Domestic Selling Agreement, no Domestic
Parent Distributor shall be required to enter into (and may refuse to enter
into) a Domestic Selling Agreement in respect of, or have any obligation to
offer (and may immediately cease to offer), any Product or New Product offered
by a Purchaser Insurer, if:

                  (i) Parent reasonably determines that such Product or New
      Product offered by a Purchaser Insurer is not Competitive; provided,
      however, that this clause (i) shall not apply to any Exclusive Product
      during the First Term;

                  (ii) any change is made or any feature is added to such
      Product or New Product (or a fund or investment option therein) without
      Parent's or the applicable Domestic Parent Distributor's prior written
      approval, which approval shall not be unreasonably withheld or delayed;

                  (iii) such Product or New Product or the offering thereof
      (including on an exclusive basis) conflicts with:

                        (x) applicable Law, including any regulatory compliance
            procedures or restrictions in connection therewith;

                        (y) any material provision of any existing agreement by
            which Parent or its Affiliates or any of their respective assets or
            properties are bound; provided that this clause (y) shall not apply
            to any Product offered by a Travelers Insurer and distributed by a
            Domestic Parent Distributor pursuant to an arrangement in effect on
            the date hereof or any Substitute Products distributed in
            replacement thereof pursuant to Section 3.5(d), unless the violation
            is caused by or relates to (1) any difference between the Substitute
            Product and the Existing Product it replaced, or (2) solely the fact
            of the replacement of the Existing Product with the Substitute
            Product; or

                        (z) the Parent Standards and Practices, provided that in
            the case of the application of this clause (z) during the First Term
            to any Exclusive Product following a change in the Parent Standards
            and Practices, any such

                                       13

change in the Parent Standards and Practices shall be in accordance
            with the third sentence of Section 3.2(b);

                  (iv) such Product is an Exclusive Product and (x) any
      Purchaser Insurer provides to any Comparable Distributor a product that is
      substantially similar to such Exclusive Product and (y) the terms, total
      compensation, consumer pricing, wholesaler coverage, training and support,
      features and service standards and metrics of such product, taken as a
      whole, are more favorable than the terms, total compensation, consumer
      pricing, wholesaler coverage, training and support, features and service
      standards and metrics of such Exclusive Product, taken as a whole;
      provided, however, that this Section 5.3(a)(iv) shall not apply to any
      distribution arrangements of any Purchaser Insurer in effect on the date
      of this Agreement;

                  (v) with respect to any Exclusive Product, the financial
      strength rating assigned to the provider of such Exclusive Product falls
      below both (x) A1 by Moody's Investors Service, Inc. (or any successor
      thereto) and (y) A+ by Standard & Poor's (or any successor thereto); or

                  (vi) with respect to any Exclusive Product, a federal, state
      or local domestic, foreign or supranational governmental, regulatory or
      self-regulatory authority, agency, court, tribunal, commission or other
      governmental, regulatory or self-regulatory entity, with jurisdiction over
      the Domestic Exclusive Parent Distributor requests or mandates that the
      Domestic Exclusive Parent Distributor cease offering or no longer offer
      the Exclusive Product on an exclusive basis; provided, however, in the
      case of such a request (but not a mandate), the Domestic Exclusive Parent
      Distributor shall provide prompt notice of any such request to the
      Purchaser Insurer providing the Exclusive Product, and shall consult and
      cooperate with such Purchaser Insurer in its efforts to obtain from such
      regulatory agency an agreement that permits the Domestic Exclusive Parent
      Distributor to continue to distribute such Exclusive Product on an
      exclusive basis. If such an agreement is reached, the Domestic Exclusive
      Parent Distributor shall continue to distribute the Exclusive Product on
      an exclusive basis in accordance with the terms of Section 3.2. If such an
      agreement cannot be reached, the Domestic Exclusive Parent Distributor
      shall distribute the Exclusive Product on a non-exclusive, Level Playing
      Field basis, for the remainder of the Term in accordance with the terms of
      this Agreement.

            (b) Prior to any Domestic Parent Distributor's exercising its right
under Section 5.3(a) not to enter into a Domestic Selling Agreement with respect
to any Product or New Product or to cease offering any Product or New Product,
such Domestic Parent Distributor shall provide written notice to Purchaser,
containing a reasonably detailed statement of the grounds for such exercise, and
shall afford Purchaser a period of 30 days in which to cure the deficiency
unless the deficiency is not capable of being cured. Such Domestic Parent
Distributor shall consult and cooperate with Purchaser as reasonably requested
during such period in identifying possible cures. If Purchaser is able to
propose a cure that is reasonably satisfactory to such Domestic Parent
Distributor before the expiration of such period, such Domestic Parent
Distributor shall not be entitled to exercise its right to refuse to enter into
a Domestic Selling Agreement or to cease offering the applicable Product or New
Product, provided that if any cure involves a change in such Product's or New
Product's terms or features that requires filing with

                                       14

or approval (or non-disapproval) by any regulatory authority, such Domestic
Parent Distributor shall, prior to exercising such right, afford Purchaser such
further period of time as may be reasonably necessary to accomplish such filing
or obtain such approval or non-disapproval. Notwithstanding anything to the
contrary in this Section 5.3(b), no Domestic Parent Distributor shall be
required to continue to distribute any Product or New Product pending any cure
period, if the offering of such Product or New Product would reasonably be
expected to (i) violate applicable Law, including any regulatory compliance
procedures or restriction in connection therewith, (ii) conflict with the Parent
Standards and Practices insofar as they relate to reputational considerations or
industry standards or (iii) in the case of an Exclusive Product under Section
5.3(a)(vi) above, conflict with a mandate from a federal, state or local
domestic, foreign or supranational governmental, regulatory or self-regulatory
authority, agency, court, tribunal, commission or other governmental, regulatory
or self-regulatory entity, with jurisdiction over the Domestic Exclusive Parent
Distributor that such Domestic Exclusive Parent Distributor cease offering or no
longer offer the Exclusive Product on an exclusive basis; provided, in the case
of this clause (iii), such Domestic Exclusive Parent Distributor shall
distribute the Exclusive Product on a non-exclusive, Level Playing Field basis,
for the remainder of the Term in accordance with the terms of this Agreement.

                                   ARTICLE VI.
                                 INDEMNIFICATION

      Section 6.1. Indemnification of Parent. Purchaser will defend and hold
harmless Parent and its Affiliates and their respective officers, directors,
employees and agents (the "Parent Indemnified Parties") from and against any
losses, liabilities, damages (including consequential damages), actions, claims,
demands, regulatory investigations, settlements, judgments and other expenses
including, but not limited to, reasonable attorneys fees and expenses ("Losses")
which are asserted against, incurred or suffered by any Parent Indemnified Party
and which arise from or are related to Purchaser's breach of any representation
or warranty (except to the extent indemnification therefor is available under
the Acquisition Agreement) or any covenant, condition or duty contained in this
Agreement.

      Section 6.2. Indemnification of Purchaser. Parent will defend and hold
harmless Purchaser and its Affiliates and their respective officers, directors,
employees and agents (the "Purchaser Indemnified Parties") from and against any
Losses which are asserted against, incurred or suffered by any Purchaser
Indemnified Party and which arise from or are related to Parent's breach of any
representation or warranty (except to the extent indemnification therefor is
available under the Acquisition Agreement) or any covenant, condition or duty
contained in this Agreement.

      Section 6.3. Indemnity Provisions in Domestic Selling Agreements. Each
Domestic Selling Agreement shall provide indemnification for Losses asserted
against each of the parties thereto in respect of a failure of the other party
to comply with applicable Law and a breach by such other party of any
representation, warranty, covenant, condition or duty contained in such Domestic
Selling Agreement.

      Section 6.4. Indemnification Procedures. Upon receipt by a Parent
Indemnified Party or a Purchaser Indemnified Party (each, an "Indemnified
Party"), as the case may be, of notice of

                                       15

any action, suit, proceedings, claim, demand or assessment made or brought by an
unaffiliated third party (a "Third Party Claim") with respect to a matter for
which such Indemnified Party is indemnified under this Article VI which has or
is expected to give rise to a claim for Losses, the Indemnified Party shall
promptly, in the case of a Purchaser Indemnified Party, notify Parent and in the
case of a Parent Indemnified Party, notify Purchaser (Purchaser or Parent, as
the case may be, the "Indemnifying Party"), in writing, indicating the nature of
such Third Party Claim and the basis therefor; provided, however, that any delay
or failure by the Indemnified Party to give notice to the Indemnifying Party
shall relieve the Indemnifying Party of its obligations hereunder only to the
extent, if at all, that it is prejudiced by reason of such delay or failure.
Such written notice shall (i) describe such Third Party Claim in reasonable
detail as is practicable including the sections of this Agreement, which form
the basis for such claim; provided that the failure to identify a particular
section in such notice shall not preclude the Indemnified Party from
subsequently identifying such section as a basis for such claim, (ii) attach
copies of all material written evidence thereof and (iii) set forth the
estimated amount of the Losses that have been or may be sustained by an
Indemnified Party. The Indemnifying Party shall have 30 days after receipt of
notice to elect, at its option, to assume and control the defense of, at its own
expense and by its own counsel, any such Third Party Claim and shall be entitled
to assert any and all defenses available to the Indemnified Party to the fullest
extent permitted by applicable Law. If the Indemnifying Party shall undertake to
compromise or defend any such Third Party Claim, it shall promptly notify the
Indemnified Party of its intention to do so, and the Indemnified Party agrees to
cooperate fully with the Indemnifying Party and its counsel in the compromise
of, or defense against, any such Third Party Claim; provided, however, that the
Indemnifying Party shall not settle, compromise or discharge, or admit any
liability with respect to, any such Third Party Claim without the prior written
consent of the Indemnified Party (which consent will not be unreasonably
withheld or delayed), unless the relief consists solely of money Losses to be
paid by the Indemnifying Party and includes a provision whereby the plaintiff or
claimant in the matter releases the Purchaser Indemnified Parties or the Parent
Indemnified Parties, as applicable, from all liability with respect thereto.
Notwithstanding an election to assume the defense of such action or proceeding,
the Indemnified Party shall have the right to employ separate counsel and to
participate in the defense of such action or proceeding, and the Indemnifying
Party shall bear the reasonable fees, costs and expenses of such separate
counsel if the (A) Indemnified Party shall have determined in good faith that an
actual or potential conflict of interest makes representation by the same
counsel or the counsel selected by the Indemnifying Party inappropriate or (B)
Indemnifying Party shall have authorized the Indemnified Party to employ
separate counsel at the Indemnifying Party's expense. In any event, the
Indemnified Party and Indemnifying Party and their counsel shall cooperate in
the defense of any Third Party Claim subject to this Article VI and keep such
Persons informed of all developments relating to any such Third Party Claims,
and provide copies of all relevant correspondence and documentation relating
thereto. All costs and expenses incurred in connection with the Indemnified
Party's cooperation shall be borne by the Indemnifying Party. In any event, the
Indemnified Party shall have the right at its own expense to participate in the
defense of such asserted liability. If the Indemnifying Party receiving such
notice of a Third Party Claim does not elect to defend such Third Party Claim or
does not defend such Third Party Claim in good faith, the Indemnified Party
shall have the right, in addition to any other right or remedy it may have
hereunder, at the Indemnifying Party's expense, to defend such Third Party
Claim; provided, however, that the Indemnified Party shall not settle,
compromise or discharge, or admit

                                       16

any liability with respect to, any such Third Party Claim without the written
consent of the Indemnifying Party (which consent will not be unreasonably
withheld or delayed).

      Section 6.5. General.

            (a) The provisions of this Article VI will survive the expiration of
this Agreement.

            (b) The rights and remedies provided herein shall be cumulative and
in addition to all other rights and remedies available to the parties at law or
equity, and the exercise or beginning of the exercise of any thereof by any
party shall not preclude the simultaneous or later exercise of any other such
rights or remedies by such party. Notwithstanding the preceding sentence,
nothing in this Agreement shall restrict or prevent any party from seeking
indemnification under any applicable provision of the Acquisition Agreement, or
any of the other Related Agreements (as defined in the Acquisition Agreement),
provided that no party shall obtain duplicative recoveries.

                                  ARTICLE VII.
                                 MISCELLANEOUS

      Section 7.1. Equitable Remedies. The parties hereto acknowledge that money
damages may not be an adequate remedy for violations of this Agreement and that
any party, in addition to any other rights and remedies which the parties may
have hereunder or at law or in equity, may, in its sole discretion, apply to a
court of competent jurisdiction for specific performance or injunction or such
other relief as such court may deem just and proper in order to enforce this
Agreement or prevent any violation hereof and, to the extent permitted by
applicable Law, each party waives any objection to the imposition of such
relief.

      Section 7.2. Severability. If any provision of this Agreement or the
application of any such provision is invalid, illegal or unenforceable in any
jurisdiction, such invalidity, illegality or unenforceability shall not affect
any other provision of this Agreement or invalidate or render unenforceable such
provision in any other jurisdiction. To the extent permitted by applicable Law,
the parties waive any provision of Law that renders any provision of this
Agreement invalid, illegal or unenforceable in any respect. The parties shall,
to the extent lawful and practicable, use their commercially reasonable efforts
to enter into arrangements to reinstate the intended benefits, net of the
intended burdens, of any such provision held invalid, illegal or unenforceable.

      Section 7.3. Further Assurance and Assistance. Parent and Purchaser agree
that each will, and will cause their respective Affiliates to, execute and
deliver any and all documents, and take such further acts, in addition to those
expressly provided for herein, that may be necessary or appropriate to
effectuate the provisions of this Agreement.

      Section 7.4. Notices. All notices, demands and other communications
required or permitted to be given to any party under this Agreement shall be in
writing and any such notice, demand or other communication shall be deemed to
have been duly given when delivered by hand, courier or overnight delivery
service or, if mailed, two (2) Business Days (as defined in the Acquisition
Agreement) after deposit in the mail and sent certified or registered mail,
return

                                       17

receipt requested and with first-class postage prepaid, or in the case of
facsimile notice, when sent and transmission is confirmed, and, regardless of
method, addressed to the party at its address or facsimile number set forth
below (or at such other address or facsimile number as the party shall furnish
the other parties in accordance with this Section 7.4):

                  (a)   If to Parent:

                        Citigroup Inc.
                        399 Park Avenue
                        New York, New York
                        Attn: Andrew M. Felner
                              Deputy General Counsel
                        Facsimile: (212) 559-7057
                        e-mail: felnera@citigroup.com

                        With a copy to:

                        Skadden, Arps, Slate, Meagher & Flom LLP
                        4 Times Square
                        New York, New York  10036-6522
                        Attn:  Eric J. Friedman, Esq.
                        Facsimile: (212) 735-2000

                  (b)   If to Purchaser:

                        MetLife, Inc.
                        2701 Queens Plaza North
                        Long Island City, New York  11101
                        Attn: James L. Lipscomb
                              Executive Vice President and General Counsel
                        Facsimile: (212) 252-7288

                        With a copy to:

                        LeBoeuf, Lamb, Greene & MacRae L.L.P.
                        125 West 55th Street
                        New York, New York  10019
                        Attn:  Alexander M. Dye, Esq.
                        Facsimile: 212-424-8500

      Section 7.5. Successors and Assigns. Subject to the terms of this Section
7.5, this Agreement shall be binding upon and inure to the benefit of the
parties hereto and their respective successors and assigns, provided that the
Parent Indemnified Parties and the Purchaser Indemnified Parties shall be
intended third-party beneficiaries of Article VI. No party hereto may assign its
rights or obligations under this Agreement without the prior written consent of
the other party (which consent may not be unreasonably withheld) and any
purported assignment without such consent shall be void.

                                       18

Section 7.6. Governing Law. This Agreement shall be governed by and
construed in accordance with the Laws of the State of New York applicable to
agreements made and to be performed entirely within such State, without regard
to the conflict of laws principles of such State.

      Section 7.7. Jurisdiction; Venue; Consent to Service of Process.

            (a) Each of the parties hereto irrevocably and unconditionally
submits to the non-exclusive jurisdiction of the United States District Court
for the Southern District of New York or, if such court will not accept
jurisdiction, the Supreme Court of the State of New York or any court of
competent civil jurisdiction sitting in New York County, New York. In any
action, suit or other proceeding, each of the parties hereto irrevocably and
unconditionally waives and agrees not to assert by way of motion, as a defense
or otherwise any claims that it is not subject to the jurisdiction of the above
courts, that such action or suit is brought in an inconvenient forum or that the
venue of such action, suit or other proceeding is improper. Each of the parties
hereto also hereby agrees that any final and unappealable judgment against a
party hereto in connection with any action, suit or other proceeding shall be
conclusive and binding on such party and that such award or judgment may be
enforced in any court of competent jurisdiction, either within or outside of the
United States. A certified or exemplified copy of such award or judgment shall
be conclusive evidence of the fact and amount of such award or judgment.

            (b) Each party irrevocably consents to service of process in the
manner provided for the giving of notices pursuant to Section 7.4 of this
Agreement. Nothing in this Section 7.7 shall affect the right of any party
hereto to serve process in any other manner permitted by Law.

      Section 7.8. Entire Agreement. This Agreement, together with all schedules
hereto, embodies the entire agreement of the parties with respect to the subject
matter hereof and supersedes all prior agreements with respect thereto. The
parties intend that this Agreement shall constitute the complete and exclusive
statement of its terms and that no extrinsic evidence whatsoever may be
introduced in any judicial proceeding involving this Agreement.

      Section 7.9. Amendment and Waiver. No amendment to this Agreement shall be
effective unless it shall be in writing and signed by each party. Any failure of
a party to comply with any obligation, covenant, agreement or condition
contained in this Agreement may be waived by the party entitled to the benefits
thereof only by a written instrument duly executed and delivered by the party
granting such waiver, but such waiver or failure to insist upon strict
compliance with such obligation, covenant, agreement or condition shall not
operate as a waiver of, or estoppel with respect to, any subsequent or other
failure of compliance. In the event that the terms of a Domestic Selling
Agreement shall conflict with the terms of this Agreement, the terms of such
Domestic Selling Agreement shall control for purposes of such Domestic Selling
Agreement.

      Section 7.10. Access to Records. Parent shall cause the Domestic Parent
Distributors to maintain adequate books and records related to the activities of
the Domestic Parent Distributors under the Domestic Selling Agreements with
respect to the Products and New Products

                                       19

distributed thereunder. Upon written request, but no more frequently than
annually, (i) Parent shall certify to Purchaser its material compliance with the
terms of Sections 3.2(b), 3.3 and 3.4(a) of this Agreement during the period
covered by such certificate and (ii) Purchaser shall certify to Parent that no
Purchaser Insurer has, during the period covered by such certification, provided
to any Comparable Distributor any product that is substantially similar to an
Exclusive Product provided by a Travelers Insurer on an exclusive basis to a
Domestic Exclusive Parent Distributor under a Domestic Selling Agreement with
terms, total compensation, consumer pricing, wholesaler coverage, training and
support, features and service standards and metrics, taken as a whole, that are
materially more favorable to such Comparable Distributor than the terms, total
compensation, consumer pricing, wholesaler coverage, training and support,
features and service standards and metrics of such Exclusive Product, taken as a
whole.

      Section 7.11. Counterparts. This Agreement may be executed by the parties
in multiple counterparts which may be delivered by facsimile transmission. Each
counterpart when so executed and delivered shall be deemed an original, and all
such counterparts taken together shall constitute one and the same instrument.

      Section 7.12. WAIVER OF JURY TRIAL. TO THE FULLEST EXTENT PERMITTED BY
LAW, EACH OF THE PARTIES IRREVOCABLY WAIVES ALL RIGHT TO TRIAL BY JURY IN ANY
ACTION, SUIT, PROCEEDING OR COUNTERCLAIM ARISING OUT OF OR RELATING TO THIS
AGREEMENT OR ANY OF THE TRANSACTIONS CONTEMPLATED BY THIS AGREEMENT.

                  [Remainder of Page Intentionally Left Blank.]

                                       20

IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto have caused this Agreement to be
signed by their respective authorized representatives.

                                            CITIGROUP INC.

                                            By:  /s/ Anthony A. Lazzara
                                                --------------------------------
                                            Name:   Anthony A. Lazzara
                                            Title:  Managing Director
                                                    M&A Execution

                                            METLIFE, INC.

                                            By:  /s/ William J. Wheeler
                                                --------------------------------
                                            Name:   William J. Wheeler
                                            Title:  Exectuive Vice President and
                                                    Chief Financial Officer

              [SIGNATURE PAGE TO DOMESTIC DISTRIBUTION AGREEMENT]

</EX-10.101>

<EX-10.102>
 32
 y87657exv10w102.txt
 EX-10.102

[EXECUTION COPY]

================================================================================

                      INTERNATIONAL DISTRIBUTION AGREEMENT

                                 BY AND BETWEEN

                                 CITIGROUP INC.

                                       AND

                                  METLIFE, INC.

                               AS OF JULY 1, 2005

================================================================================

TABLE OF CONTENTS

INTERNATIONAL DISTRIBUTION AGREEMENT

      THIS INTERNATIONAL DISTRIBUTION AGREEMENT (this "Agreement"), dated as of
July 1, 2005, is made by and between Citigroup Inc., a Delaware corporation
("Parent"), and MetLife, Inc., a Delaware corporation ("Purchaser").

      WHEREAS, Purchaser and certain of its Affiliates provide insurance and
annuity products throughout the United States and in numerous countries around
the world;

      WHEREAS, Parent, through its Affiliates, has an extensive proprietary
distribution network that distributes, on behalf of insurance companies,
insurance and annuity products throughout the United States and in numerous
countries around the world;

      WHEREAS, Parent and Purchaser have entered into an Acquisition Agreement,
dated as of January 31, 2005 (the "Acquisition Agreement"), pursuant to which
Purchaser will acquire on the terms and subject to the conditions set forth
therein, all of the outstanding shares of capital stock of certain subsidiaries
of, and the equity interests owned by Parent in certain joint ventures of,
Parent or its Affiliates, including the Travelers Insurers;

      WHEREAS, in connection with the transactions contemplated by the
Acquisition Agreement, the parties hereto desire to enter into a distribution
relationship inside the United States pursuant to a Domestic Distribution
Agreement to be entered into on the date of this Agreement and the distribution
relationship outside the United States contemplated by this Agreement;

      WHEREAS, this Agreement has been restated from the form hereof attached to
the Acquisition Agreement; and

      WHEREAS, the execution and delivery of this Agreement is a condition to
closing of the transactions contemplated by the Acquisition Agreement.

      NOW, THEREFORE, in consideration of the mutual covenants, agreements and
promises herein contained, the parties do hereby agree as follows:

                                   ARTICLE I
                                  DEFINITIONS

      Section 1.1 Defined Terms. For purposes of this Agreement, unless the
context requires otherwise, the following terms shall have the following
meanings:

      "Acquisition Agreement" has the meaning set forth in the recitals hereto.

      "Adequate Financial Strength" means with respect to the applicable
Purchaser Insurer's distribution of a Product through an International Parent
Distributor, the financial strength of such Purchaser Insurer as it relates to
such Product reasonably determined in good faith by the applicable International
Parent Distributor on the basis of criteria which such International Parent
Distributor reasonably believes are utilized in the industry or by similarly
situated distributors in

evaluating other insurers (considered as a group) or any Purchaser Insurer,
provided that to the extent other insurers provide products which are
substantially similar to the Product sold by such Purchaser Insurer through the
applicable International Parent Distributor such reasonable determination shall
also be made on the basis of criteria which such International Parent
Distributor has knowledge of and reasonably believes are utilized in evaluating
such insurers as to such Product. Such criteria will take into account factors
such as the availability of financial strength ratings in the country in which
the products of such Purchaser Insurer are sold. For the avoidance of doubt,
each International Parent Distributor acknowledges that immediately prior to the
date hereof the Purchaser Insurer providing a Product to it had Adequate
Financial Strength with respect to such Product on such date.

      "Affiliate" shall mean, with respect to any Person, any other Person that
directly or indirectly, through one or more intermediaries, controls, is
controlled by or is under common control with such first Person. The term
"control" (including its correlative meanings "controlled by" and "under common
control with") shall mean possession, directly or indirectly, of power to direct
or cause the direction of management or policies (whether through ownership of
securities or partnership or other ownership interests, by contract or
otherwise).

      "Agreement" shall have the meaning set forth in the introductory paragraph
hereof.

      "Asia-Pac RCA" shall have the meaning set forth in Section 3.7(e).

      "Comparable Distributor" shall mean a distributor using a substantially
similar approach to the marketing, servicing, sales support and overall
distribution of products.

      "Competitive" means (i) the terms, total compensation, customer appeal,
consumer pricing and value, wholesaler coverage, training and support, features
and service standards and metrics of the applicable product, taken as a whole,
are at least equivalent to those of other comparable products, considered as a
group, then distributed by the applicable Affiliate of Parent and (ii) the
Purchaser Insurer shall have Adequate Financial Strength.

      "Confidential Information" shall have the meaning set forth in Section
4.2(b).

      "Covered Business" means all policies, certificates or coverages existing
under, or in respect of, all Reinsured Products as of the date hereof, together
with all new policies, certificates or coverages sold or effected under such
Reinsured Products and any new product distributed by a Reinsured Product
Distributor in any country that is substantially similar to a Reinsured Product
distributed by such Reinsured Product Distributor in such country.

      "CSL Agreement" has the meaning ascribed to such term in Section 3.7(d).

      "Covered Country" means each of the following countries: Argentina,
Australia, Belgium, Brazil, Guam, Hong Kong, Hungary, Ireland, Japan, Poland and
the United Kingdom.

      "Exclusive Products" means the Products designated on Schedule 3.2(a) as
being subject to an exclusive relationship.

      "Existing Product" has the meaning set forth in Section 3.5(c).

                                        2

"First Term" means the five-year period commencing on the date of this
Agreement and ending on the fifth anniversary of the date of this Agreement.

      "Indemnified Party" has the meaning set forth in Section 6.4.

      "Indemnifying Party" has the meaning set forth in Section 6.4.

      "International Exclusive Parent Distributor" means each International
Parent Distributor to which a Travelers Insurer is the exclusive provider of any
Product on the date of this Agreement and such Person's successors and assigns.

      "International Parent Distributor" means (i) any Person Affiliated with
Parent that, as of the date of this Agreement, distributes any Product that a
Travelers Insurer offers in any Covered Country and such Person's successors and
assigns and (ii) any Person Affiliated with Parent that distributes any product
offered by a Purchaser Insurer in any country other than a Covered Country
pursuant to an arrangement contemplated by Sections 3.4(b), 3.5(b) and 3.6(b)
(but in each case only from and after such time that such Person begins
distributing such product for a Purchaser Insurer) and such Person's successors
and assigns.

      "International Selling Agreements" has the meaning set forth in Section
3.1.

      "Law" shall have the meaning set forth in the Acquisition Agreement.

      "Level Playing Field" means, with respect to a product, Parent (i) shall,
and shall cause any International Parent Distributor entering into an
International Selling Agreement with respect to such product pursuant to Section
3.1 to, afford the same access to its distribution platforms for such product
offered by a Travelers Insurer (or a Purchaser Insurer, as applicable) as the
access it affords to comparable products offered by a Third Party Insurer and
(ii) shall not, and shall cause its Affiliates (including the International
Parent Distributors) not to, provide to its Sales Force any compensation or
other economic inducement or benefit for the sale of comparable products sold in
a comparable sales support and compensation framework offered by a Third Party
Insurer that are more favorable than the compensation or other economic
inducements or benefits provided to such Sales Force for the sale of such
products offered by a Travelers Insurer (or a Purchaser Insurer, as applicable);
provided, that a Level Playing Field may include variations in Sales Force
compensation that are (x) based upon neutral criteria that do not differentiate
between product providers, such as achieving sales volume or persistency
objectives, or (y) for products (including combined product and service
arrangements) for which distributor compensation is negotiated by the provider
on a sale-by-sale basis, such as group retirement products.

      "Licensing Agreement" shall have the meaning set forth in the Acquisition
Agreement.

      "Local Incumbent" has the meaning set forth in Section 3.7.

      "Losses" has the meaning set forth in Section 6.1.

      "Marks" shall mean the Parent Distributor Marks, as defined in the
Licensing Agreement in respect of this Agreement.

                                        3

"New Products" means (i), with respect to each Covered Country, any life
insurance or annuity product that a Purchaser Insurer is authorized to offer but
was not included among the types of insurance or annuity products distributed by
an International Parent Distributor in such Covered Country on the date of this
Agreement and (ii) products offered by a Purchaser Insurer pursuant to
arrangements contemplated by Sections 3.5(b) and 3.6(b). For avoidance of doubt,
the addition of new features to Products shall not constitute New Products in
whole or in part, regardless of whether any insurance regulatory filing is
required in connection therewith.

      "Non-Exclusive Products" has the meaning set forth in Section 3.3.

      "Parent" has the meaning set forth in the introductory paragraph hereof.

      "Parent Indemnified Parties" has the meaning set forth in Section 6.1.

      "Parent Standards and Practices" means the client service and relationship
standards, business practices, ethical standards, customer privacy and
protection policies and general service quality standards, reputational
considerations and industry standards, as determined from time to time by Parent
or any of its Affiliates, provided that such Parent Standards and Practices, to
the extent they relate to a Product or New Product and/or International Parent
Distributor, shall be applied, and changes thereto shall be made, without
discriminating in any material manner against any Travelers Insurer or Purchaser
Insurer, as applicable, relative to all other similarly situated providers of
such Products or New Products distributed by such International Parent
Distributor.

      "Person" shall have the meaning set forth in the Acquisition Agreement.

      "PLP Distributor" has the meaning set forth in Section 3.4(b).

      "Private Label Product" means a life insurance or annuity product
customized for a PLP Distributor in a Covered Country or Supplemental Country
that (i) is branded under the name of the PLP Distributor in such Covered
Country or Supplemental Country or (ii) is a variable life insurance or variable
annuity contract that offers as an option more than two investment choices or
mutual funds that are advised or managed by Parent or a Parent Affiliate (or any
successor to the Parent or a Parent Affiliate of substantially all of the
business or assets of the Parent or such Parent Affiliate which relate primarily
to the asset management business), including an PLP Distributor (in all cases in
the capacity of either an advisor or sub-advisor). For the avoidance of doubt
and without limitation, a Private Label Product (whether existing on the date of
this Agreement or thereafter) shall be deemed a Product for all purposes under
this Agreement.

      "Products" means the life insurance and annuity products issued by the
Travelers Insurers and distributed through the International Parent Distributors
on the date of this Agreement, and any Substitute Products distributed in
replacement thereof pursuant to Section 3.5(c).

      "Purchaser" shall have the meaning set forth in the introductory paragraph
hereof.

      "Purchaser Indemnified Parties" has the meaning set forth in Section 6.2.

                                        4

"Purchaser Insurer" means any insurance company Affiliate of Purchaser,
including the Travelers Insurers.

      "Reinsured Product Distributor" means each Affiliate of Parent who, on the
date of this Agreement, distributes life insurance or annuity products on behalf
of a Local Incumbent.

      "Reinsured Products" means all life insurance and annuity products being
distributed by an Affiliate of Parent, written by a Local Incumbent and
reinsured by a Reinsurer as of the date of this Agreement.

      "Reinsurer" has the meaning set forth in Section 3.7.

      "Sales Force" means those point of sale representatives and their direct
supervisors utilized by Parent, International Parent Distributors or one of
their respective Affiliates whose job responsibility includes the sale or
promotion of Products or New Products offered by a Travelers Insurer (or a
Purchaser Insurer, as applicable).

      "Second Term" means the five-year period commencing upon the expiration of
the First Term and ending on the tenth anniversary of the date of this
Agreement.

      "Substitute Product" has the meaning set forth in Section 3.5(c).

      "Supplemental Country" means each of the following countries: Chile,
China, India, Indonesia, South Korea, Taiwan, and Uruguay.

      "Target Affiliated Distributor" means any Person Affiliated with Parent
that (i) was an Affiliate of a Target Business (as defined in the Acquisition
Agreement) immediately prior to the acquisition of such Target Business by
Parent or an Affiliate of Parent and (ii) is engaged in the business of
distributing financial services products.

      "Term" has the meaning set forth in Section 5.1.

      "Third Party Claim" has the meaning set forth in Section 6.4.

      "Third Party Insurer" means an insurance company that is not Affiliated
with Purchaser.

      "Travelers Insurers" means the International Insurance Companies (as
defined in the Acquisition Agreement) and the Joint Ventures (as defined in the
Acquisition Agreement) to be acquired by Purchaser pursuant to the Acquisition
Agreement and their successors and assigns, and with respect to a Substitute
Product that is offered pursuant to Section 3.5(c), a Purchaser Insurer and its
successors and assigns.

      Section 1.2 Purposes of Agreement. Notwithstanding anything in this
Agreement to the contrary, Purchaser and Parent agree that this Agreement is
intended to set forth certain principal business terms upon which they will
enter into International Selling Agreements during the Term and that nothing
herein creates an International Selling Agreement.

                                        5

Section 1.3 Construction. For the purposes of this Agreement: (i) words
(including capitalized terms defined herein) in the singular shall be held to
include the plural and vice versa, and words (including capitalized terms
defined herein) of one gender shall be held to include the other gender as the
context requires; (ii) the terms "hereof," "herein" and "herewith" and words of
similar import shall, unless otherwise stated, be construed to refer to this
Agreement as a whole (including all of the Schedules) and not to any particular
provision of this Agreement, and Article, Section, paragraph and Schedule
references are to the Articles, Sections, paragraphs and Schedules to this
Agreement, unless otherwise specified; (iii) the word "including" and words of
similar import when used in this Agreement shall mean "including, without
limitation"; (iv) all references to any period of days shall be deemed to be to
the relevant number of calendar days unless otherwise specified; and (v)
"commercially reasonable efforts" shall not require a waiver by any party of any
material rights or any action or omission that would be a breach of this
Agreement.

      Section 1.4 Headings. The Article and Section headings contained in this
Agreement are inserted for convenience of reference only and shall not affect
the meaning or interpretation of this Agreement.

                                   ARTICLE II
                         REPRESENTATIONS AND WARRANTIES

      Section 2.1 Representations and Warranties of Parent. Parent hereby
represents and warrants to Purchaser as set forth below.

            (a) Parent is a corporation duly organized, validly existing and in
good standing under the laws of its state of incorporation.

            (b) Parent has all necessary corporate power and authority to make,
execute and deliver this Agreement and to perform all of the obligations to be
performed by it hereunder. The making, execution, delivery and performance by
Parent of this Agreement and the consummation by Parent of the transactions
contemplated hereby have been duly and validly authorized by all necessary
corporate action on the part of Parent. This Agreement has been duly and validly
executed and delivered by Parent, and assuming the due authorization, execution
and delivery by Purchaser, this Agreement will constitute the valid, legal and
binding obligation of Parent, enforceable against it in accordance with its
terms, except as may be subject to applicable bankruptcy, insolvency, moratorium
or other similar Laws, now or hereafter in effect, relating to or affecting the
rights of creditors generally and by legal and equitable limitations on the
enforceability of specific remedies.

            (c) Neither the execution and delivery of this Agreement by Parent,
nor the consummation of the transactions contemplated hereby, will (i) violate
or conflict with any provision of the articles of incorporation or bylaws or
other organizational documents of Parent or any International Parent
Distributor, (ii) violate any of the terms, conditions, or provisions of any Law
or license to which Parent or any International Parent Distributor is subject or
by which it or any International Parent Distributor or any of its or their
assets are bound, or (iii) violate, breach, or constitute a default under any
contract to which Parent or any International Parent Distributor is a party or
by which it or any International Parent Distributor or any of its or their

                                        6

assets is bound. The distribution of any Products offered by a Travelers Insurer
and distributed by an International Parent Distributor on the date of this
Agreement does not violate, breach, or constitute a default under any contract
to which Parent or any International Parent Distributor is a party or by which
any of them or any of their respective assets is bound.

            (d) None of the arrangements by which any International Parent
Distributor distributes any Products on behalf of a Travelers Insurer in force
on the date of this Agreement violates any of the Parent Standards and Practices
in effect on such date.

      Section 2.2. Representations and Warranties of Purchaser. Purchaser hereby
represents and warrants to Parent as set forth below.

            (a) Purchaser is a corporation duly organized, validly existing and
in good standing under the laws of its state of incorporation.

            (b) Purchaser has all necessary corporate power and authority to
make, execute and deliver this Agreement and to perform all of the obligations
to be performed by it hereunder. The making, execution, delivery and performance
by Purchaser of this Agreement and the consummation by Purchaser of the
transactions contemplated hereby have been duly and validly authorized by all
necessary corporate action on the part of Purchaser. This Agreement has been
duly and validly executed and delivered by Purchaser, and assuming the due
authorization, execution and delivery by Parent, this Agreement will constitute
the valid, legal and binding obligation of Purchaser, enforceable against it in
accordance with its terms, except as may be subject to applicable bankruptcy,
insolvency, moratorium or other similar Laws, now or hereafter in effect,
relating to or affecting the rights of creditors generally and by legal and
equitable limitations on the enforceability of specific remedies.

            (c) Neither the execution and delivery of this Agreement by
Purchaser, nor the consummation of the transactions contemplated hereby, will
(i) violate or conflict with any provision of the articles of incorporation or
bylaws or other organizational documents of Purchaser or any Purchaser Insurer
(other than the Travelers Insurers), (ii) violate any of the terms, conditions,
or provisions of any Law or license to which Purchaser is subject or by which it
or any of its assets is bound, or (iii) violate, breach, or constitute a default
under any contract to which Purchaser is a party or by which it or any of its
assets is bound.

                                  ARTICLE III.
                           INTERNATIONAL DISTRIBUTION

      Section 3.1. Selling Agreements. In order to effectuate the distribution
arrangements contemplated hereby among the Travelers Insurers (and Purchaser
Insurers, as applicable) and the International Parent Distributors for
distribution of the Products and New Products offered by the Travelers Insurers
(and Purchaser Insurers, as applicable) in the Covered Countries and the
Supplemental Countries, Parent shall cause the International Parent
Distributors, and Purchaser shall cause the Travelers Insurers (and Purchaser
Insurers, as applicable), to negotiate in good faith and enter into written
selling agreements that are consistent with industry practice and with the
principles set forth in this Agreement and that contain terms and conditions
taken as a whole that are no less favorable to the Travelers Insurers (and
Purchaser Insurers, as applicable) and the

                                        7

International Parent Distributors than the terms and conditions of the selling
and selling related arrangements existing on the date of this Agreement between
the Travelers Insurers and the International Parent Distributors (the
"International Selling Agreements"). For each International Parent Distributor
that distributes a Product for a Travelers Insurer on the date of this
Agreement, an International Selling Agreement for the distribution of such
Product, to take effect on the date of this Agreement, shall be executed and
delivered by such International Parent Distributor and the applicable Travelers
Insurer on or prior to the date of this Agreement. The International Selling
Agreements will contain provisions concerning the periodic readjustment of
compensation as agreed by the parties thereto.

      Section 3.2. Exclusive Distribution Arrangements.

            (a) Parent represents and warrants that Schedule 3.2(a) sets forth a
complete and accurate list of all life insurance and annuity products issued by
a Travelers Insurer and distributed by an International Parent Distributor
(whether pursuant to a written agreement or de facto) in a Covered Country on
behalf of a Travelers Insurer on the date of this Agreement, the identity of
each International Parent Distributor that distributes each such product and
whether or not a Travelers Insurer is the exclusive provider (whether pursuant
to a written agreement or de facto) of such product to such International Parent
Distributor. For purposes of this Agreement (other than Section 3.7), life
insurance and/or annuity products shall be deemed to include any product listed
on Schedule 3.2(a).

            (b) If any Travelers Insurer is the exclusive provider (whether
pursuant to a written agreement or de facto) of an Exclusive Product to any
International Exclusive Parent Distributor in a Covered Country on the date of
this Agreement, such Travelers Insurer shall have the right to be the exclusive
provider of such Exclusive Product to such International Exclusive Parent
Distributor in such Covered Country during the First Term. During the Second
Term, each Travelers Insurer shall have the right to be a provider, on a
non-exclusive, Level Playing Field basis, to each International Exclusive Parent
Distributor of each Exclusive Product distributed by such International
Exclusive Parent Distributor on the date of this Agreement. During the First
Term, Parent shall not make any change in the Parent Standards and Practices
(except changes that may be reasonably appropriate to comply with applicable
Law) that would conflict with the rights granted to the Travelers Insurers under
the first sentence of this Section 3.2(b).

            (c) Notwithstanding anything herein to the contrary (including,
without limitation, Section 3.5(c)), prior to the earlier of (i) the end of the
60-day period beginning on the date of this Agreement and (ii) December 31,
2005, (x) Purchaser shall cause the Exclusive Products to be marketed under the
brand name and with such trademarks or trade names (including the identity of
the underwriter of such Exclusive Product) as used on the date of this Agreement
and (y) no Purchaser Insurer shall be permitted to provide a Substitute Product
in place of an Exclusive Product.

      Section 3.3. Non-Exclusive Distribution Arrangements. If any Travelers
Insurer is a non-exclusive provider of a Product to any International Parent
Distributor in any Covered Country on the date of this Agreement (the
"Non-Exclusive Products"), such Travelers Insurer

                                        8

shall have the right to be a provider of such Product, on a non-exclusive, Level
Playing Field basis, to such International Parent Distributor in such country
during the Term.

      Section 3.4. Private Label Products.

            (a) If any Travelers Insurer is the provider of a Private Label
Product to an International Parent Distributor in any Covered Country on the
date of this Agreement, such Travelers Insurer shall have the right to be the
provider of such Private Label Product in such Covered Country during the Term.

            (b) Subject to the last sentence of this Section 3.4(b), if, prior
to the seventh anniversary of the date of this Agreement, any International
Parent Distributor or any other Affiliate of Parent that distributes life
insurance or annuity products desires to distribute, as a Private Label Product
in any Covered Country or Supplemental Country, a life insurance product (other
than term life insurance) or annuity product that it does not distribute as a
Private Label Product in such country on the date of this Agreement, Parent
shall cause such International Parent Distributor or other Affiliate of Parent
(a "PLP Distributor") to notify Purchaser no later than the time of notification
of any Third Party Insurer. If the PLP Distributor does not select a Purchaser
Insurer as the provider of the new Private Label Product and the PLP Distributor
desires to continue to seek a Third Party Insurer, as provider, Parent shall
cause the PLP Distributor to include the Purchaser Insurers in the process for
selection of such provider (whether by formal request for proposals or
otherwise) to provide such Private Label Product prior to selecting a Third
Party Insurer. Parent shall cause the PLP Distributor to entertain in good
faith, and on terms no less favorable than those extended to any other proposed
provider, proposals from the Purchaser Insurers to provide such new Private
Label Product. Such PLP Distributor (i) shall have exclusive discretion in
determining the process for selection of, and the criteria for evaluation of,
potential providers of any such Private Label Product and (ii) shall make a good
faith determination of the relative suitability of proposals from potential
providers for satisfying the requirements of such Private Label Product (it
being understood that if such PLP Distributor determines that a proposal from a
Purchaser Insurer satisfies such requirements, considered as a whole, at least
as well as the most favorable proposal or proposals of the other potential
providers, such Purchaser Insurer's proposal shall be selected); provided,
however, that such PLP Distributor shall not be required to select any such
proposal. In the event a proposal from a Purchaser Insurer is selected by a PLP
Distributor, Parent shall cause such PLP Distributor, and Purchaser shall cause
such Purchaser Insurer, to negotiate in good faith an appropriate written
selling agreement with respect thereto upon terms and conditions to be mutually
agreed by the parties thereto. The rights granted to the Purchaser Insurers
under this Section 3.4(b) shall not apply with respect to any new Private Label
Product if an insurance company not Affiliated with Parent or Purchaser contacts
or approaches the International Parent Distributor, without solicitation by such
International Parent Distributor relating to such Private Label Product, about
developing or the possibility of developing such Private Label Product.
Notwithstanding the foregoing, but subject to Section 3.5, nothing in this
Section 3.4 shall be construed to limit such International Parent Distributor's
ability to offer Products substantially the same as any Private Label Product on
a non-private label basis.

                                        9

Section 3.5. New Products; New Countries; Substitute Products.

            (a) At any time during the Term, (i) Purchaser may propose to an
International Parent Distributor that such International Parent Distributor or
one or more of its Affiliates distribute a New Product offered by a Purchaser
Insurer and (ii) an International Parent Distributor may propose to Purchaser
that such International Parent Distributor or one or more of its Affiliates
distribute a New Product offered by a Purchaser Insurer.

            (b) Subject to Section 3.6(b), if, prior to the seventh anniversary
of the date of this Agreement, (i) any Purchaser Insurer that, as of the date of
this Agreement, offers a life insurance or annuity product for distribution in
any Supplemental Country desires to offer such product for distribution through
an Affiliate of Parent in such country, (ii) such Affiliate of Parent
distributes a life insurance or annuity product that is substantially the same
as such product through an open architecture distribution platform in such
country at the time and has multiple providers of such product and (iii) the
product proposed to be offered by the Purchaser Insurer is Competitive, then
such Purchaser Insurer shall have the right to provide such product to such
Affiliate of Parent in such country on a non-exclusive, Level Playing Field
basis for the remainder of such seven-year period. In such event, Parent shall
cause such Affiliate of Parent, and Purchaser shall cause such Purchaser
Insurer, to negotiate in good faith and enter into a written selling agreement
that is consistent with industry practice and with the principles set forth in
this Agreement.

            (c) At any time during the Term, Purchaser may propose in writing
that any Purchaser Insurer offer, in place of any Product then offered by a
Travelers Insurer through an International Parent Distributor (an "Existing
Product") in a Covered Country or a Supplemental Country, a substitute product
and if (i) such Purchaser Insurer has Adequate Financial Strength and (ii) such
substitute product is substantially the same as the Existing Product in the
terms, total compensation, consumer pricing, wholesaler coverage, training and
support, features and service standards and metrics (a "Substitute Product"),
then Parent shall cause such International Parent Distributor to distribute such
Substitute Product in place of the Existing Product in such country. The
Purchaser Insurer that offers such Substitute Product shall have the same rights
under this Agreement with respect to the Substitute Product as the Travelers
Insurer that offered the Existing Product possessed with respect to the Existing
Product. By way of illustration and without limiting the generality of the
foregoing, if the Travelers Insurer was entitled to provide the Existing Product
on a non-exclusive, Level Playing Field basis through the International Parent
Distributor, the Purchaser Insurer shall be entitled to provide the Substitute
Product on a non-exclusive, Level Playing Field basis through such International
Parent Distributor in place of such Existing Product. Parent shall cause the
applicable International Parent Distributor and Purchaser shall cause the
Purchaser Insurer to enter into an International Selling Agreement with respect
to the Substitute Product that is substantially the same as the International
Selling Agreement with respect to the Existing Product. The Purchaser Insurer
providing the Substitute Product shall bear reasonable costs incurred by the
applicable International Parent Distributor in connection with or arising out of
the replacement of the Existing Product with the Substitute Product.

                                       10

Section 3.6. Acquisitions.

            (a) Notwithstanding anything in this Agreement to the contrary, but
subject to Section 3.6(b), neither Parent nor any International Parent
Distributor shall be (i) deemed to be in violation of this Agreement or any
International Selling Agreement or (ii) obligated hereunder or under any
International Selling Agreement to take any action (including to make any
adjustment to commissions, economic inducements or other benefits for the Sales
Force), if such violation would arise, or such action would be required to be
taken, solely as a result of Parent or one of its Affiliates acquiring assets or
a business of any Person engaged in the distribution of financial services
products following the date of this Agreement; provided, however, that nothing
in this Section 3.6(a) shall limit or restrict any obligations that Parent or
any International Parent Distributor has to distribute on an exclusive basis a
Product or a New Product offered by a Purchaser Insurer if such Purchaser
Insurer has the right under this Agreement or any International Selling
Agreement to be the exclusive provider of such Product or New Product to such
International Parent Distributor.

            (b) If, at any time prior to the seventh anniversary of the date of
this Agreement, (i) Parent acquires a Target Business (as defined in the
Acquisition Agreement), of which the net revenues and net earnings (in each
case, calculated in a manner consistent with Section 6.17(a)(x) of the
Acquisition Agreement, and, for the avoidance of doubt, excluding realized
gains) derived from a Competitive Business (as defined in the Acquisition
Agreement) are more than a de minimis amount, and (ii) Parent or its Affiliates
are permitted to acquire such Target Business pursuant to Sections 6.17(a)(x) or
6.17(a)(xi) of the Acquisition Agreement, then Purchaser through the Purchaser
Insurers shall have the right during the remainder of such seven-year period to
be a provider to each Target Affiliated Distributor, if any, on a non-exclusive
Level Playing Field basis, of any life insurance or annuity product that is
distributed by such Target Affiliated Distributor on a non-exclusive basis
either immediately before or following such acquisition; provided, that such
right shall be subject to any applicable contractual or other restrictions by
which such Target Affiliated Distributor is bound.

      Section 3.7. Reinsurance of Products Distributed on Behalf of Third Party
Insurers.

            (a) During the Term, Parent shall, and shall cause each Reinsured
Product Distributor who, on the date of this Agreement, distributes life
insurance or annuity products on behalf of a Third Party Insurer ("Local
Incumbent") where all or part of such business written by such Local Incumbent
is reinsured by a Travelers Insurer (a "Reinsurer") to use its best efforts (x)
to require the relevant Local Incumbent (which term shall include, for purposes
of this Section 3.7, any successor or replacement Local Incumbent) to continue
to reinsure the Covered Business to the Reinsurer on terms no less favorable,
taken as a whole, to the Reinsurer than the terms on which such Covered Business
is reinsured on the date of this Agreement (net of any payments made or deemed
to be made by the Reinsurer to any Affiliate of Parent in respect of
coordination or other services rendered in connection herewith) and (y) if any
such Local Incumbent refuses to continue to reinsure such Covered Business in
accordance with clause (x) (a "Refusing Insurer"), to find a replacement
insurance company for such Refusing Insurer (which replacement insurer shall
have comparable financial strength to the Refusing Insurer (if relevant to the
product offered by the Refusing Insurer) and may be any insurance company
Affiliate of Purchaser, if one is available to issue the relevant types of
products issued by the

                                       11

Refusing Insurer in the applicable country so long as such products are
substantially the same as the products issued by the Refusing Insurer) that will
agree to write such Covered Business and to reinsure it in accordance with
clause (x) and, once such a replacement is found, to exercise any rights it has
to terminate its distribution arrangement with the Refusing Insurer and to
replace the Refusing Insurer with such replacement insurance company; provided
that the Purchaser or Reinsurer shall be responsible for reasonable one time
expenses incurred by the Reinsured Product Distributor solely as a result of
such replacement; provided, further, that the Reinsured Product Distributor will
not incur any such expenses without obtaining Purchaser's or Reinsurer's prior
consent (which will not be unreasonably withheld or delayed); and provided,
further, that the obligations of the applicable Reinsured Product Distributor
under clauses (x) and (y) above shall be conditioned during the Second Term on
the Reinsurer having Adequate Financial Strength. Parent shall cause each
Reinsured Product Distributor not to change the terms of its relationship with
any Local Incumbent that would significantly and adversely affect the
profitability of the Covered Business reinsured by Reinsurer without obtaining
the prior written consent of Purchaser, which consent shall not be unreasonably
withheld or delayed. Nothing in this Section 3.7 shall be construed to limit the
ability of a Reinsured Product Distributor to terminate a selling agreement with
a relevant Insurer in accordance with its terms; provided that such termination
shall not relieve Parent of its obligations under this Agreement.

            (b) Notwithstanding anything in Section 3.7(a) to the contrary, in
the event that Parent or a Reinsured Product Distributor determines that it is
advisable or desirable to modify or restructure the reinsurance arrangements
described in Section 3.7(a) in any country with respect to all or any part of
the Covered Business, including to eliminate the reinsurance arrangements and
effect the distribution of all or a portion of such Covered Business directly
from a Purchaser Insurer, then, as long as in the reasonable good faith judgment
of Purchaser or the applicable Reinsurer, there shall be no adverse impact on
the profitability of the Covered Business as a result of such modification or
restructuring or replacement for the remainder of the Term, Purchaser shall
cause the Reinsurer to reasonably cooperate with such modification or
restructuring to the extent necessary and the Reinsured Product Distributor may
take such actions as are necessary or appropriate to effect such modification or
restructuring; provided, that the Reinsured Product Distributor shall be
responsible for reasonable one time expenses incurred by the Reinsurer solely as
a result of Parent's or Reinsured Product Distributor's decision to modify or
restructure such arrangements; provided, further, that Reinsurer will not incur
any such expenses without obtaining Parent's or Reinsured Product Distributor's
prior consent (which will not be unreasonably withheld or delayed).

            (c) At any time during the Term, Purchaser or a Reinsurer may
propose to a Reinsured Product Distributor that distributes a product included
within the Covered Business in any country, and Parent shall cause such
Reinsured Product Distributor to consider in good faith, that, in lieu of the
product being issued by the Local Incumbent, such Reinsured Product Distributor
distribute products being issued by a Purchaser Insurer licensed to conduct
business in such country; provided, that nothing contained in this Section
3.7(c) shall create any obligation on the part of a Reinsured Product
Distributor to distribute any product issued by a Purchaser Insurer.

            (d) Notwithstanding anything in Section 3.7(a) to the contrary, the
parties hereto acknowledge that to the extent the performance by Citibank
Singapore Limited ("CSL")

                                       12

satisfies its obligations under the letter agreement dated July 1, 2005 (the
"CSL Letter Agreement"), between CSL and Citicorp Life Insurance Limited, Parent
shall be in full satisfaction of the obligations of Parent under Section 3.7(a)
with respect to the CS Covered Business (as defined in the CSL Letter
Agreement).

            (e) For purposes of Section 3.7(a), the Credit Shield Products (as
such term is defined in the CSL Letter Agreement), together with all products
distributed by a Reinsured Product Distributor, written by a Third Party Insurer
and reinsured through a Travelers Insurer as of the date of this Agreement, and
all products set forth on Schedule C of the Asia-Pacific Regional Reinsurance
Coordination Agreement, dated as of the date of this Agreement, between Citicorp
Life Insurance Limited and Citibank Singapore Limited (the "Asia-Pac RCA"),
shall be deemed to be life insurance and annuity products. The parties will
cooperate in good faith to develop a schedule of such products within 60 days of
the date hereof.

            (f) The parties acknowledge that, subject to Section 5(c) of the
Asia-Pac RCA, any termination pursuant to Sections 5(a)(ii), (iii), (iv) or (v)
of the Asia-Pac RCA shall terminate the obligations of Parent pursuant to
Section 3.7(a) hereof to the same extent that the obligations of the Coordinator
(as defined in the Asia-Pac RCA) thereunder terminate.

      Section 3.8. No Obligation. For the avoidance of doubt, nothing in this
Agreement or any International Selling Agreement shall (i) impose upon any
Purchaser Insurer any obligation to distribute any Products or New Products
offered by a Purchaser Insurer through the International Parent Distributors,
(ii) impose upon Parent or its Affiliates any obligation to provide to its or
their employees any Product or New Product issued by Purchaser or any Travelers
Insurers, (iii) restrict the ability of Purchaser or Parent or any of their
Affiliates from acquiring or disposing of any assets of, or reorganizing or
consolidating, any business, subject to the proviso in Section 3.6(a) or (iv)
restrict the ability of any Purchaser Insurer to distribute insurance or annuity
products through Persons other than Affiliates of Parent. Subject to Section
3.6(b), nothing in this Agreement shall impose upon any Affiliate of Parent that
becomes an Affiliate of Parent after the date of this Agreement any obligation
to distribute any Product or New Product on behalf of a Purchaser Insurer. For
the avoidance of doubt, in the event any International Parent Distributor ceases
to be an Affiliate of Parent, Parent's obligations under this Agreement with
respect to such International Parent Distributor shall no longer be applicable.

      Section 3.9. Credicard.

            (a) In the event Credicard Banco S.A. ("Credicard") (i) is
reorganized or restructured on or before December 31, 2008 in such a manner that
a surviving entity becomes an Affiliate of Citigroup and (ii) immediately prior
to such reorganization or restructuring, distributes a life insurance or annuity
product issued by a Purchaser Insurer in Brazil (a "Credicard Product"), then
Citigroup shall cause such surviving entity to negotiate in good faith with such
Purchaser Insurer and enter into an amendment to the Annex B (the "Brazil
Annex") to the Latin America Selling Agreement, which is an International
Selling Agreement hereunder, to include such entity as a Distributor thereunder
and to include such Credicard Product as a "Product" under the Latin America
Selling Agreement, provided that such amendment or the distribution of any such
Credicard Product will not conflict with any agreement or arrangement by which
Citigroup, Distributor or Credicard, any surviving entity or any of their
respective

                                       13

Affiliates or any of their respective assets or properties may be bound
(including, without limitation, any agreements or arrangements among Credicard
and any of its shareholders or their affiliates).

            (b) For purposes of any amendment to the Brazil Annex to the Latin
America Selling Agreement in respect of a Credicard Product, the determination
of (i) whether to classify such Credicard Product as an Exclusive Product, a
Non-Exclusive Product or a Private Label Product, (ii) the scope of access
rights as provided in Section 4.1 and (iii) compensation to be paid for sales of
such Credicard Product shall, in each case, be determined as of the date of such
amendment and not as of the date of this Agreement.

            (c) In furtherance of the foregoing, Citigroup agrees that prior to
December 31, 2008, it and its Affiliates shall not take action to (i) finally
terminate the distribution agreements in effect on the date of this Agreement
between Credicard and a Travelers Insurer or (ii) amend any term of such
agreements or enter into any new agreement or arrangement, in either case, in a
manner that would significantly and adversely affect distribution arrangements
thereunder in respect of the Credicard Products.

      Section 3.10. Corretora. In the event that Citibank Corretora de Seguros
S.A., which is the "International Parent Distributor" in Brazil as of the date
of this Agreement, ceases for any reason to distribute Products in Brazil during
the Term, then, to the extent that Banco Citibank S.A., directly or indirectly
through another distributor in Brazil Affiliated with Banco Citibank S.A., is
authorized to distribute and distributes any life insurance or annuity products
in Brazil, Parent shall cause Banco Citibank S.A. or such other distributor in
Brazil Affiliated with Banco Citibank S.A., to enter into an International
Selling Agreement to distribute the relevant Products in Brazil for the
remainder of the Term in accordance with the terms and subject to the conditions
set forth in this Agreement and the applicable International Selling Agreement.

                                  ARTICLE IV.
                               ACCESS AND BRANDING

      Section 4.1. Access.

            (a) To the extent that as of the date of this Agreement, an
International Exclusive Parent Distributor permits wholesalers, Product
representatives or bank marketing representatives of the Travelers Insurers to
have access to such International Exclusive Parent Distributor, including its
Sales Force, bank branches, sales offices or sales, education or training
meetings that involve the promotion of Products made available by a Travelers
Insurer for distribution by such International Exclusive Parent Distributor in a
Covered Country, Parent shall, during the First Term, cause such International
Exclusive Parent Distributor to continue to permit such access on the same terms
and conditions as on the date of this Agreement in a manner consistent with
applicable Law and the Parent Standards and Practices. The applicable Purchaser
Insurer providing the Exclusive Products shall continue during the First Term to
maintain wholesaler coverage, training, and sales support to the International
Exclusive Parent Distributor on terms and conditions that are no less favorable
than those provided by the applicable Travelers Insurer to such International
Exclusive Parent Distributor on the date of this Agreement.

                                       14

(b) To the extent that as of the date of this Agreement, an
International Parent Distributor (other than an International Exclusive Parent
Distributor) permits wholesalers, Product representatives or bank marketing
representatives of the Travelers Insurers to have access to such International
Parent Distributor in a Covered Country, including its Sales Force, bank
branches, sales offices or sales, education or training meetings that involve
the promotion of Products made available by a Travelers Insurer for distribution
by such International Parent Distributor, in a manner consistent with applicable
Law and with the Parent Standards and Practices, Parent shall, until the third
anniversary of the date of this Agreement, cause such International Parent
Distributor to provide such access on terms and conditions that are no less
favorable than those generally applicable to any Third Party Insurer.

      Section 4.2. Branding; Use of Names; Confidential Information; Approval of
Certain Materials.

            (a) Unless otherwise provided in an International Selling Agreement
and, in all cases in accordance with the terms and subject to the conditions of
the Licensing Agreement, during the Term, Purchaser shall cause all Purchaser
Insurers providing, and Parent shall cause all International Parent Distributors
distributing, Products (including Private Label Products in respect of which any
Purchaser Insurer is the provider on the date of this Agreement) to cause such
Products distributed through an International Parent Distributor to be offered
and branded utilizing the Marks that relate to each such Product as of the date
of this Agreement; provided that Purchaser and the Purchaser Insurers shall have
been granted adequate rights to use the Marks under the Licensing Agreement; and
provided, further, that the parties hereto agree that any trademark or trade
name on such product shall be appropriately altered to reflect any change to the
trademark or trade name of the applicable International Parent Distributor and,
subject to Section 3.2(c), in the case of a Substitute Product, to reflect any
change that is required by Law as a result of the change in the issuer of such
Substitute Product. To the extent that a Private Label Product is distributed by
a PLP Distributor on behalf of a Purchaser Insurer after the date of this
Agreement in accordance with Section 3.4, then Parent shall cause such PLP
Distributor and Purchaser shall cause all Purchaser Insurers providing such
Private Label Product to cause such Private Label Product to be offered and
branded using such trademarks or trade names as may be applicable to such
Private Label Product by such PLP Distributor, provided that Purchaser and the
applicable Purchaser Insurers shall own or shall have been granted adequate
rights to use such trademarks or trade names.

            (b) During the Term of this Agreement, the Travelers Insurers and,
as applicable, the Purchaser Insurers will have access to confidential
information and other proprietary information ("Confidential Information") of
Parent and its Affiliates. Confidential Information includes, but is not limited
to, the names, addresses, telephone numbers and social security numbers of
applicants for, purchasers of and other customers of Products and New Products
as well as other identity and private information in respect of Parent's or its
Affiliates' customers, employees, representatives and agents. Confidential
Information shall not include any customer information (i) that was previously
known by a Purchaser Insurer from a source other than any International Parent
Distributor without obligations of confidence; or (ii) that was or is rightfully
received by a Purchaser Insurer from a third party without obligations of
confidence to any International Parent Distributor or from publicly available
sources without obligations of confidence to any International Parent
Distributor; or (iii) that was or is developed

                                       15

by means independent of information obtained from any International Parent
Distributor. As a condition to such access, neither Purchaser nor any Purchaser
Insurer shall use, copy or disclose such Confidential Information in any manner
(including, without limitation, to sell or cross-sell their products).
Confidential Information may be used to service Products and New Products,
including, as appropriate, to accept additional contributions and premium for
and to modify, add, or exchange coverage to any Product or New Product purchased
by a policy owner who purchased from an International Parent Distributor.
Purchaser and its Affiliates shall take all appropriate action to ensure the
protection, confidentiality and security of such Confidential Information. The
Purchaser and its Affiliates acknowledge and agree that this Confidential
Information is the property of the International Parent Distributors. The
parties also understand that the Purchaser Insurers may respond to inquiries
from holders of Products or New Products concerning other Purchaser Insurer
products and services provided there was no solicitation of such inquiry using
Confidential Information. The parties also agree that this Section 4.2(b) shall
not apply to individuals with whom Purchaser or the Purchaser Insurers have a
pre-existing relationship other than through an International Parent
Distributor.

            (c) (i) Any marketing, training or other materials to be made
available by any Purchaser Insurer to any International Parent Distributor's
Sales Force or customers in connection with Products and New Products (other
than ordinary course communications to policyholders and contract holders) shall
be made available only with the prior consent (which shall not be unreasonably
withheld or delayed) of the applicable International Parent Distributor;
provided that all such materials that are used by the Travelers Insurers in
connection with the distribution of Products through the International Parent
Distributors on the date of this Agreement shall not require any such consent.
In the event that the applicable Purchaser Insurer or the applicable
International Parent Distributor determines to discontinue the use of any such
materials, the parties shall cooperate with the applicable Purchaser Insurer to
ensure that such use is discontinued by such International Parent Distributor's
Sales Force.

                (ii) Any marketing, training or other materials prepared by an
      International Parent Distributor and to be made available by such
      International Parent Distributor to its Sales Force or customers that
      describes any Purchaser Insurer or any of its Affiliates or any insurance
      or annuity product offered by any of them may be made available only with
      the prior consent (which shall not be unreasonably withheld or delayed) of
      the applicable Purchaser Insurer; provided that all such materials that
      are used by the International Parent Distributors in connection with the
      distribution of Products on the date of this Agreement shall not require
      any such consent. In the event that the applicable Purchaser Insurer or
      the applicable International Parent Distributor determines to discontinue
      the use of any such materials, the parties shall cooperate with the
      applicable International Parent Distributor to ensure that such use is
      discontinued by its Sales Force.

                                   ARTICLE V.
                   TERM OF THE AGREEMENT; CERTAIN CONDITIONS

      Section 5.1. Term. The term of this Agreement (the "Term") will commence
on the date of this Agreement and shall continue until the tenth anniversary of
the date of this

                                       16

Agreement; provided, however, the expiration of this Agreement shall not reduce
or curtail the term of any International Selling Agreement that extends beyond
the end of the Term.

      Section 5.2. Survival. Upon expiration of this Agreement, the provisions
of Article I, Section 4.2(b), this Section 5.2, Article VI and Article VII shall
survive without modification.

      Section 5.3. Certain Conditions.

            (a) Subject to Section 5.3(b), but notwithstanding anything else to
the contrary in this Agreement or in any International Selling Agreement, no
International Parent Distributor shall be required to enter into (and may refuse
to enter into) an International Selling Agreement in respect of, or have any
obligation to offer (and may immediately cease to offer), any Product or New
Product offered by a Purchaser Insurer, if:

                  (i) Parent reasonably determines that such Product or New
      Product offered by a Purchaser Insurer is not Competitive;

                  (ii) any change is made or any feature is added to such
      Product or New Product (or a fund or investment option therein) without
      Parent's or the applicable International Parent Distributor's prior
      written approval, which approval shall not be unreasonably withheld or
      delayed;

                  (iii) such Product or New Product or the offering thereof
      (including on an exclusive basis) conflicts with:

                        (x) applicable Law, including any regulatory compliance
            procedures or restrictions in connection therewith;

                        (y) any material provision of any existing agreement by
            which Parent or its Affiliates or any of their respective assets or
            properties are bound; provided that this clause (y) shall not apply
            to any Product offered by a Travelers Insurer and distributed by an
            International Parent Distributor pursuant to an arrangement in
            effect on the date of this Agreement or any Substitute Products
            distributed in replacement thereof pursuant to Section 3.5(c),
            unless the violation is caused by or relates to (1) any difference
            between the Substitute Product and the Existing Product it replaced,
            or (2) solely the fact of the replacement of the Existing Product
            with the Substitute Product; or

                        (z) the Parent Standards and Practices, provided that in
            the case of the application of this clause (z) during the First Term
            to any Exclusive Product following a change in the Parent Standards
            and Practices, any such change in the Parent Standards and Practices
            shall be in accordance with the third sentence of Section 3.2(b);

                  (iv) such Product is an Exclusive Product and (x) any
      Purchaser Insurer provides to any Comparable Distributor a product that is
      substantially similar to such Exclusive Product and (y) the terms, total
      compensation, consumer pricing, wholesaler coverage, training and support,
      features and service standards and metrics of such

                                       17

product, taken as a whole, are more favorable than the terms, total
      compensation, consumer pricing, wholesaler coverage, training and support,
      features and service standards and metrics of such Exclusive Product,
      taken as a whole; provided, however, that this Section 5.3(a)(iv) shall
      not apply to any distribution arrangements of any Purchaser Insurer in
      effect on the date of this Agreement; or

                  (v) with respect to any Exclusive Product, a federal, state or
      local domestic, foreign or supranational governmental, regulatory or
      self-regulatory authority, agency, court, tribunal, commission or other
      governmental, regulatory or self-regulatory entity, with jurisdiction over
      the International Exclusive Parent Distributor requests or mandates that
      the International Exclusive Parent Distributor cease offering or no longer
      offer the Exclusive Product on an exclusive basis; provided, however, in
      the case of such a request (but not a mandate), the International
      Exclusive Parent Distributor shall provide prompt notice of any such
      request to the Purchaser Insurer providing the Exclusive Product, and
      shall consult and cooperate with such Purchaser Insurer in its efforts to
      obtain from such regulatory agency an agreement that permits the
      International Exclusive Parent Distributor to continue to distribute such
      Exclusive Product on an exclusive basis. If such an agreement is reached,
      the International Exclusive Parent Distributor shall continue to
      distribute the Exclusive Product on an exclusive basis in accordance with
      the terms of Section 3.2. If such an agreement cannot be reached, the
      International Exclusive Parent Distributor shall distribute the Exclusive
      Product on a non-exclusive, Level Playing Field basis, for the remainder
      of the Term in accordance with the terms of this Agreement.

            (b) Prior to any International Parent Distributor's exercising its
right under Section 5.3(a) not to enter into an International Selling Agreement
with respect to any Product or New Product or to cease offering any Product or
New Product, such International Parent Distributor shall provide written notice
to Purchaser, containing a reasonably detailed statement of the grounds for such
exercise, and shall afford Purchaser a period of 30 days in which to cure the
deficiency unless the deficiency is not capable of being cured. Such
International Parent Distributor shall consult and cooperate with Purchaser as
reasonably requested during such period in identifying possible cures. If
Purchaser is able to propose a cure that is reasonably satisfactory to such
International Parent Distributor before the expiration of such period, such
International Parent Distributor shall not be entitled to exercise its right to
refuse to enter into an International Selling Agreement or to cease offering the
applicable Product or New Product, provided that if any cure involves a change
in such Product's or New Product's terms or features that requires filing with
or approval (or non-disapproval) by any regulatory authority, such International
Parent Distributor shall, prior to exercising such right, afford Purchaser such
further period of time as may be reasonably necessary to accomplish such filing
or obtain such approval or non-disapproval. Notwithstanding anything to the
contrary in this Section 5.3(b), no International Parent Distributor shall be
required to continue to distribute any Product or New Product pending any cure
period, if the offering of such Product or New Product would reasonably be
expected to (i) violate applicable Law, including any regulatory compliance
procedures or restriction in connection therewith, (ii) conflict with the Parent
Standards and Practices insofar as they relate to reputational considerations or
industry standards in the applicable country or (iii) in the case of an
Exclusive Product under Section 5.3(a)(v) above, conflict with a mandate from a
federal, state or local domestic, foreign or supranational

                                       18

governmental, regulatory or self-regulatory authority, agency, court, tribunal,
commission or other governmental, regulatory or self-regulatory entity, with
jurisdiction over the International Exclusive Parent Distributor that such
International Exclusive Parent Distributor cease offering or no longer offer the
Exclusive Product on an exclusive basis; provided, in the case of this clause
(iii), such International Exclusive Parent Distributor shall distribute the
Exclusive Product on a non-exclusive, Level Playing Field basis, for the
remainder of the Term in accordance with the terms of this Agreement.

                                  ARTICLE VI.
                                INDEMNIFICATION

      Section 6.1. Indemnification of Parent. Purchaser will defend and hold
harmless Parent and its Affiliates and their respective officers, directors,
employees and agents (the "Parent Indemnified Parties") from and against any
losses, liabilities, damages (including consequential damages), actions, claims,
demands, regulatory investigations, settlements, judgments and other expenses
including, but not limited to, reasonable attorneys fees and expenses ("Losses")
which are asserted against, incurred or suffered by any Parent Indemnified Party
and which arise from or are related to Purchaser's breach of any representation
or warranty (except to the extent indemnification therefor is available under
the Acquisition Agreement) or any covenant, condition or duty contained in this
Agreement.

      Section 6.2. Indemnification of Purchaser. Parent will defend and hold
harmless Purchaser and its Affiliates and their respective officers, directors,
employees and agents (the "Purchaser Indemnified Parties") from and against any
Losses which are asserted against, incurred or suffered by any Purchaser
Indemnified Party and which arise from or are related to Parent's breach of any
representation or warranty (except to the extent indemnification therefor is
available under the Acquisition Agreement) or any covenant, condition or duty
contained in this Agreement.

      Section 6.3. Indemnity Provisions in International Selling Agreements.
Each International Selling Agreement shall provide indemnification for Losses
asserted against each of the parties thereto in respect of a failure of the
other party to comply with applicable Law and a breach by such other party of
any representation, warranty, covenant, condition or duty contained in such
International Selling Agreement.

      Section 6.4. Indemnification Procedures. Upon receipt by a Parent
Indemnified Party or a Purchaser Indemnified Party (each, an "Indemnified
Party"), as the case may be, of notice of any action, suit, proceedings, claim,
demand or assessment made or brought by an unaffiliated third party (a "Third
Party Claim") with respect to a matter for which such Indemnified Party is
indemnified under this Article VI which has or is expected to give rise to a
claim for Losses, the Indemnified Party shall promptly, in the case of a
Purchaser Indemnified Party, notify Parent and in the case of a Parent
Indemnified Party, notify Purchaser (Purchaser or Parent, as the case may be,
the "Indemnifying Party"), in writing, indicating the nature of such Third Party
Claim and the basis therefor; provided, however, that any delay or failure by
the Indemnified Party to give notice to the Indemnifying Party shall relieve the
Indemnifying Party of its obligations hereunder only to the extent, if at all,
that it is prejudiced by reason of such delay or failure. Such written notice
shall (i) describe such Third Party Claim in reasonable detail as is practicable
including

                                       19

the sections of this Agreement, which form the basis for such claim; provided
that the failure to identify a particular section in such notice shall not
preclude the Indemnified Party from subsequently identifying such section as a
basis for such claim, (ii) attach copies of all material written evidence
thereof and (iii) set forth the estimated amount of the Losses that have been or
may be sustained by an Indemnified Party. The Indemnifying Party shall have 30
days after receipt of notice to elect, at its option, to assume and control the
defense of, at its own expense and by its own counsel, any such Third Party
Claim and shall be entitled to assert any and all defenses available to the
Indemnified Party to the fullest extent permitted by applicable Law. If the
Indemnifying Party shall undertake to compromise or defend any such Third Party
Claim, it shall promptly notify the Indemnified Party of its intention to do so,
and the Indemnified Party agrees to cooperate fully with the Indemnifying Party
and its counsel in the compromise of, or defense against, any such Third Party
Claim; provided, however, that the Indemnifying Party shall not settle,
compromise or discharge, or admit any liability with respect to, any such Third
Party Claim without the prior written consent of the Indemnified Party (which
consent will not be unreasonably withheld or delayed), unless the relief
consists solely of money Losses to be paid by the Indemnifying Party and
includes a provision whereby the plaintiff or claimant in the matter releases
the Purchaser Indemnified Parties or the Parent Indemnified Parties, as
applicable, from all liability with respect thereto. Notwithstanding an election
to assume the defense of such action or proceeding, the Indemnified Party shall
have the right to employ separate counsel and to participate in the defense of
such action or proceeding, and the Indemnifying Party shall bear the reasonable
fees, costs and expenses of such separate counsel if the (A) Indemnified Party
shall have determined in good faith that an actual or potential conflict of
interest makes representation by the same counsel or the counsel selected by the
Indemnifying Party inappropriate or (B) Indemnifying Party shall have authorized
the Indemnified Party to employ separate counsel at the Indemnifying Party's
expense. In any event, the Indemnified Party and Indemnifying Party and their
counsel shall cooperate in the defense of any Third Party Claim subject to this
Article VI and keep such Persons informed of all developments relating to any
such Third Party Claims, and provide copies of all relevant correspondence and
documentation relating thereto. All costs and expenses incurred in connection
with the Indemnified Party's cooperation shall be borne by the Indemnifying
Party. In any event, the Indemnified Party shall have the right at its own
expense to participate in the defense of such asserted liability. If the
Indemnifying Party receiving such notice of a Third Party Claim does not elect
to defend such Third Party Claim or does not defend such Third Party Claim in
good faith, the Indemnified Party shall have the right, in addition to any other
right or remedy it may have hereunder, at the Indemnifying Party's expense, to
defend such Third Party Claim; provided, however, that the Indemnified Party
shall not settle, compromise or discharge, or admit any liability with respect
to, any such Third Party Claim without the written consent of the Indemnifying
Party (which consent will not be unreasonably withheld or delayed).

      Section 6.5. General.

            (a) The provisions of this Article VI will survive the expiration of
this Agreement.

            (b) The rights and remedies provided herein shall be cumulative and
in addition to all other rights and remedies available to the parties at law or
equity, and the exercise or beginning of the exercise of any thereof by any
party shall not preclude the simultaneous or

                                       20

later exercise of any other such rights or remedies by such party.
Notwithstanding the preceding sentence, nothing in this Agreement shall restrict
or prevent any party from seeking indemnification under any applicable provision
of the Acquisition Agreement, or any of the other Related Agreements (as defined
in the Acquisition Agreement), provided that no party shall obtain duplicative
recoveries.

                                  ARTICLE VII.
                                  MISCELLANEOUS

      Section 7.1. Equitable Remedies. The parties hereto acknowledge that money
damages may not be an adequate remedy for violations of this Agreement and that
any party, in addition to any other rights and remedies which the parties may
have hereunder or at law or in equity, may, in its sole discretion, apply to a
court of competent jurisdiction for specific performance or injunction or such
other relief as such court may deem just and proper in order to enforce this
Agreement or prevent any violation hereof and, to the extent permitted by
applicable Law, each party waives any objection to the imposition of such
relief.

      Section 7.2. Severability. If any provision of this Agreement or the
application of any such provision is invalid, illegal or unenforceable in any
jurisdiction, such invalidity, illegality or unenforceability shall not affect
any other provision of this Agreement or invalidate or render unenforceable such
provision in any other jurisdiction. To the extent permitted by applicable Law,
the parties waive any provision of Law that renders any provision of this
Agreement invalid, illegal or unenforceable in any respect. The parties shall,
to the extent lawful and practicable, use their commercially reasonable efforts
to enter into arrangements to reinstate the intended benefits, net of the
intended burdens, of any such provision held invalid, illegal or unenforceable.

      Section 7.3. Further Assurance and Assistance. Parent and Purchaser agree
that each will, and will cause their respective Affiliates to, execute and
deliver any and all documents, and take such further acts, in addition to those
expressly provided for herein, that may be necessary or appropriate to
effectuate the provisions of this Agreement.

      Section 7.4. Notices. All notices, demands and other communications
required or permitted to be given to any party under this Agreement shall be in
writing and any such notice, demand or other communication shall be deemed to
have been duly given when delivered by hand, courier or overnight delivery
service or, if mailed, two (2) Business Days (as defined in the Acquisition
Agreement) after deposit in the mail and sent certified or registered mail,
return receipt requested and with first-class postage prepaid, or in the case of
facsimile notice, when sent and transmission is confirmed, and, regardless of
method, addressed to the party at its address or facsimile number set forth
below (or at such other address or facsimile number as the party shall furnish
the other parties in accordance with this Section 7.4):

                                       21

(a) If to Parent:

                Citigroup Inc.
                399 Park Avenue
                New York, New York 10043
                Attn: Andrew M. Felner
                      Deputy General Counsel
                Facsimile: (212) 559-7057
                e-mail: felnera@citigroup.com

                With a copy to:

                Skadden, Arps, Slate, Meagher & Flom LLP
                4 Times Square
                New York, New York 10036-6522
                Attn: Eric J. Friedman, Esq.
                Facsimile: (212) 735-2000

            (b) If to Purchaser:

                MetLife, Inc.
                2701 Queens Plaza North
                Long Island City, New York 11101
                Attn: James L. Lipscomb
                      Executive Vice President and General Counsel
                Facsimile: (212) 252-7288

                With a copy to:

                LeBoeuf, Lamb, Greene & MacRae L.L.P.
                125 West 55th Street
                New York, New York 10019
                Attn: Alexander M. Dye, Esq.
                Facsimile: 212-424-8500

      Section 7.5. Successors and Assigns. Subject to the terms of this Section
7.5, this Agreement shall be binding upon and inure to the benefit of the
parties hereto and their respective successors and assigns, provided that the
Parent Indemnified Parties and the Purchaser Indemnified Parties shall be
intended third-party beneficiaries of Article VI. No party hereto may assign its
rights or obligations under this Agreement without the prior written consent of
the other party (which consent may not be unreasonably withheld) and any
purported assignment without such consent shall be void.

      Section 7.6. Governing Law. This Agreement shall be governed by and
construed in accordance with the Laws of the State of New York applicable to
agreements made and to be performed entirely within such State, without regard
to the conflict of laws principles of such State.

                                       22

Section 7.7. Jurisdiction; Venue; Consent to Service of Process.

            (a) Each of the parties hereto irrevocably and unconditionally
submits to the non-exclusive jurisdiction of the United States District Court
for the Southern District of New York or, if such court will not accept
jurisdiction, the Supreme Court of the State of New York or any court of
competent civil jurisdiction sitting in New York County, New York. In any
action, suit or other proceeding, each of the parties hereto irrevocably and
unconditionally waives and agrees not to assert by way of motion, as a defense
or otherwise any claims that it is not subject to the jurisdiction of the above
courts, that such action or suit is brought in an inconvenient forum or that the
venue of such action, suit or other proceeding is improper. Each of the parties
hereto also hereby agrees that any final and unappealable judgment against a
party hereto in connection with any action, suit or other proceeding shall be
conclusive and binding on such party and that such award or judgment may be
enforced in any court of competent jurisdiction, either within or outside of the
United States. A certified or exemplified copy of such award or judgment shall
be conclusive evidence of the fact and amount of such award or judgment.

            (b) Each party irrevocably consents to service of process in the
manner provided for the giving of notices pursuant to Section 7.4 of this
Agreement. Nothing in this Section 7.7 shall affect the right of any party
hereto to serve process in any other manner permitted by Law.

      Section 7.8. Entire Agreement. This Agreement, together with all schedules
hereto, embodies the entire agreement of the parties with respect to the subject
matter hereof and supersedes all prior agreements with respect thereto. The
parties intend that this Agreement shall constitute the complete and exclusive
statement of its terms and that no extrinsic evidence whatsoever may be
introduced in any judicial proceeding involving this Agreement.

      Section 7.9. Amendment and Waiver. No amendment to this Agreement shall be
effective unless it shall be in writing and signed by each party. Any failure of
a party to comply with any obligation, covenant, agreement or condition
contained in this Agreement may be waived by the party entitled to the benefits
thereof only by a written instrument duly executed and delivered by the party
granting such waiver, but such waiver or failure to insist upon strict
compliance with such obligation, covenant, agreement or condition shall not
operate as a waiver of, or estoppel with respect to, any subsequent or other
failure of compliance. In the event that the terms of an International Selling
Agreement shall conflict with the terms of this Agreement, the terms of such
International Selling Agreement shall control for purposes of such International
Selling Agreement.

      Section 7.10. Access to Records. Parent shall cause the International
Parent Distributors to maintain adequate books and records related to the
activities of the International Parent Distributors under the International
Selling Agreements with respect to the Products and New Products distributed
thereunder. Upon written request, but no more frequently than annually, (i)
Parent shall certify to Purchaser its material compliance with the terms of
Sections 3.2(b), 3.3 and 3.4(a) of this Agreement during the period covered by
such certificate and (ii) Purchaser shall certify to Parent that no Purchaser
Insurer has, during the period covered by such certification, provided to any
Comparable Distributor any product that is substantially similar to

                                       23

an Exclusive Product provided by a Travelers Insurer on an exclusive basis to an
International Exclusive Parent Distributor under an International Selling
Agreement with terms, total compensation, consumer pricing, wholesaler coverage,
training and support, features and service standards and metrics, taken as a
whole, that are materially more favorable to such Comparable Distributor than
the terms, total compensation, consumer pricing, wholesaler coverage, training
and support, features and service standards and metrics of such Exclusive
Product, taken as a whole.

      Section 7.11. Counterparts. This Agreement may be executed by the parties
in multiple counterparts which may be delivered by facsimile transmission. Each
counterpart when so executed and delivered shall be deemed an original, and all
such counterparts taken together shall constitute one and the same instrument.

      Section 7.12. WAIVER OF JURY TRIAL. TO THE FULLEST EXTENT PERMITTED BY
LAW, EACH OF THE PARTIES IRREVOCABLY WAIVES ALL RIGHT TO TRIAL BY JURY IN ANY
ACTION, SUIT, PROCEEDING OR COUNTERCLAIM ARISING OUT OF OR RELATING TO THIS
AGREEMENT OR ANY OF THE TRANSACTIONS CONTEMPLATED BY THIS AGREEMENT.

                  [Remainder of Page Intentionally Left Blank.]

                                       24

IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto have caused this Agreement to be
signed by their respective authorized representatives.

                                     CITIGROUP INC.

                                     By: /s/ Anthony A. Lazzara
                                         ---------------------------------------
                                     Name:  Anthony A. Lazzara
                                     Title: Managing Director
                                            M&A Execution

                                     METLIFE, INC.

                                     By: /s/ William J. Wheeler
                                         ---------------------------------------
                                     Name:  William J. Wheeler
                                     Title: Executive Vice President and
                                            Chief Financial Officer

[SIGNATURE PAGE TO INTERNATIONAL DISTRIBUTION AGREEMENT]

SCHEDULE 3.2(a)

</EX-10.102>

<EX-12.1>
 33
 y87657exv12w1.htm
 EX-12.1

exv12w1 

Exhibit 12.1 

MetLife, Inc. 

Ratio of Earnings to Fixed Charges 

(1) 
       
     Earnings were insufficient to cover fixed charges at a 1:1 ratio
by $2,861 million for the year ended December 31, 2009, primarily
due to increased net investment losses on freestanding
derivatives, partially offset by gains on embedded derivatives. 

(2) 
       
     Interest costs include $411 million related to consolidated
securitization entities for the year ended December 31, 2010.
Excluding these costs would result in a ratio of earnings to fixed
charges and ratio of earnings to fixed charges including preferred
stock dividends of 1.56 and 1.55, respectively. 

1 

</EX-12.1>

<EX-21.1>
 34
 y87657exv21w1.htm
 EX-21.1

exv21w1 

Exhibit 21.1 

METLIFE, INC.  
As of December 31, 2010

Wholly-Owned Active Subsidiaries 1  

1. 
       
     23 RD  STREET INVESTMENTS, INC. (DE) 

2. 
       
     334 MADISON EURO INVESTMENTS, INC. (DE) 

3. 
       
     500 GRANT STREET ASSOCIATES LIMITED PARTNERSHIP (CT) 

4. 
       
     500 GRANT STREET GP LLC (DE) 

5. 
       
     85 BROAD STREET LLC (DE) 

6. 
       
     85 BROAD STREET MEZZANINE LLC (DE) 

7. 
       
     A.I.G. LIMITED (NIGERIA) 

8. 
       
     AGENVITA S.R.L. (ITALY) 

9. 
       
     AHICO FIRST AMERICAN HUNGARIAN INSURANCE COMPANY (ELSO AMERIKAI-MAGYAR
BIZTOSITO) ZRT. (HUNGARY) 

10. 
       
     ALGICO PROPERTIES, LTD. (T T) 

11. 
       
     ALICO AKCIONARSKA DRUSTVOZA za ZIVOTNO OSIGURANJE (SERBIA) 

12. 
       
     ALICO ASIGURARI ROMANIA S.A. (ROMANIA) 

13. 
       
     ALICO ASSET MANAGEMENT CORP. (JAPAN) 

14. 
       
     ALICO COMPANIA de SEGUROS de RETIRO, S.A. (ARGENTINA) 

15. 
       
     ALICO COMPANIA de SEGUROS de VIDA, S.A. (URUGUAY) 

16. 
       
     ALICO COMPANIA de SEGUROS, S.A. (ARGENTINA) 

17. 
       
     ALICO COSTA RICA S.A. (COSTA RICA) 

18. 
       
     ALICO EUROPEAN HOLDINGS LIMITED (IRELAND) 

19. 
       
     ALICO FUNDS CENTRAL EUROPE SPRAV. SPOL., A.S. (SLOVAKIA) 

20. 
       
     ALICO GESTORA de FONDOS y PLANOS de PENSIONES S.A. (SPAIN) 

21. 
       
     ALICO HELLAS SINGLE MEMBER LIMITED LIABILITY COMPANY (GREECE) 

22. 
       
     ALICO ISLE OF AMN LIMITED (ISLE OF MAN) 

23. 
       
     ALICO ITALIA S.P.A. 

24. 
       
     ALICO LIFE INTERNATIONAL LIMITED (IRELAND) 

25. 
       
     ALICO LIMITED(NIGERIA) 

26. 
       
     ALICO MANAGEMENT SERVICES LIMITED (UK) 

27. 
       
     ALICO MEXICO COMPANIA de SEGUROS, S.A. de C.V. (MEXICO) 

28. 
       
     ALICO NAGASAKI OPERATION YUGEN KAISHA (JAPAN) 

29. 
       
     ALICO OPERATIONS, INC. (US) 

30. 
       
     ALICO S.A. (FRANCE) 

31. 
       
     ALICO SERVICES CENTRAL EUROPE S.R.O. (SLOVAKIA) 

32. 
       
     ALICO SERVICES, INC. (PANAMA) 

33. 
       
     ALICO SOCIETATE de ADMINISTRARE a UNUI FOND de PENSII ADMINISTRAT
PRIVAT S.A. 

34. 
       
     ALICO SOLUTIONS S.A.S. (FRANCE) 

35. 
       
     ALICO TRUSTEES LTD. (UK) 

36. 
       
     ALICO ZHIVOTOZASTRAHOVAT elno DRUZESTVO EAD (BULGARIA) 

37. 
       
     ALPHA PROPERTIES, INC. (US) 

38. 
       
     ALTERNATIVE FUEL I, LLC (DE) 

39. 
       
     AMCICO POJISTOVNA A.S. (CZECH REPUBLIC) 

40. 
       
     AMERICAN LIFE HAYAT SIGORTA A.S. (TURKEY) 

41. 
       
     AMERICAN LIFE INSURANCE COMPANY (US) 

1  
       
     Does not include real estate joint ventures and partnerships of
which MetLife, Inc. and/or its subsidiaries is an investment partner. 

42. 
       
     AMERICAN LIFE INSURANCE COMPANY LTD. (PAKISTAN) 

43. 
       
     AMERICAN LIFE LIMITED (NIGERIA) 

44. 
       
     AMPLICO LIFE-FIRST AMERICAN POLISH LIFE INSURANCE   REINSURANCE
COMPANY, S.A. (POLAND) 

45. 
       
     AMPLICO POWSZECHNE TOWARTZYSTWO (POLAND) 

46. 
       
     AMPLICO SERVICES SP Z.O.O. (POLAND) 

47. 
       
     AMPLICO TOWARTZYSTWO FUNDUSZKY INWESTYCYJNYCH S.A. (POLAND) 

48. 
       
     AMSLICO POIST OVNA ALICO A.S. (SLOVAKIA) 

49. 
       
     BEST MARKET S.A. (ARGENTINA) 

50. 
       
     BETA PROPERTIES, INC. (US) 

51. 
       
     BOND TRUST ACCOUNT A (MA) 

52. 
       
     BORDERLAND INVESTMENT LIMITED (US) 

53. 
       
     CITYPOINT HOLDINGS II LIMITED (UK) 

54. 
       
     CML COLUMBIA PARK FUND I LLC (DE) 

55. 
       
     COMMUNICATION ONE KABUSHIKI KAISHA (JAPAN) 

56. 
       
     COMPANIA PREVISIONAL METLIFE S.A. (BRAZIL) 

57. 
       
     CONVENT STATION EURO INVESTMENTS FOUR COMPANY (UK) 

58. 
       
     CORPORATE REAL ESTATE HOLDINGS, LLC (DE) 

59. 
       
     CORRIGAN TLP LLC (DE) 

60. 
       
     COVA LIFE MANAGEMENT COMPANY (DE) 

61. 
       
     CRB CO., INC. (MA) 

62. 
       
     DELAWARE AMERICAN LIFE INSURANCE COMPANY (US) 

63. 
       
     DELTA PROPERTIES JAPAN, INC. (US) 

64. 
       
     ECONOMY FIRE   CASUALTY COMPANY (IL) 

65. 
       
     ECONOMY PREFERRED INSURANCE COMPANY (IL) 

66. 
       
     ECONOMY PREMIER ASSURANCE COMPANY (IL) 

67. 
       
     ENTERPRISE GENERAL INSURANCE AGENCY, INC. (DE) 

68. 
       
     ENTRECAP REAL ESTATE II LLC (DE) 

69. 
       
     EPSILON PROPERTIES JAPAN, INC. (US) 

70. 
       
     EURO CL INVESTMENTS, LLC (DE) 

71. 
       
     EURO TI INVESTMENTS LLC (DE) 

72. 
       
     EURO TL INVESTMENTS LLC (DE) 

73. 
       
     EXETER REASSURANCE COMPANY, LTD. (BERMUDA) 

74. 
       
     FEDERAL FLOOD CERTIFICATION CORP (TX) 

75. 
       
     FINANCIAL LEARNING KABUSHIKI KAISHA (JAPAN) 

76. 
       
     FIRST HUNGARIAN-AMERICAN INSURANCE AGENCY LIMITED (HUNGARY) 

77. 
       
     FIRST METLIFE INVESTORS INSURANCE COMPANY (NY) 

78. 
       
     FUNDACION METLIFE MEXICO, A.C. (MEXICO) 

79. 
       
     GBN,LLC (US) 

80. 
       
     GENAMERICA CAPITAL I (DE) 

81. 
       
     GENAMERICA FINANCIAL, LLC (DE) 

82. 
       
     GENERAL AMERICAN LIFE INSURANCE COMPANY (MO) 

83. 
       
     GLOBAL PROPERTIES, INC. (US) 

84. 
       
     GREATER SANDHILL I, LLC (DE) 

85. 
       
     GREENWICH STREET CAPITAL OFFSHORE FUND, LTD (VIRGIN ISLANDS) 

86. 
       
     GREENWICH STREET INVESTMENTS, L.L.C. (DE) 

87. 
       
     GREENWICH STREET INVESTMENTS, L.P. (DE) 

88. 
       
     HEADLAND PROPERTIES ASSOCIATES (CA) 

89. 
       
     HEADLAND-PACIFIC PALISADES, LLC (CA) 

90. 
       
     HESTIS S.A. (FRANCE) 

91. 
       
     HOUSING FUND MANAGER, LLC (DE) 

92. 
       
     HPZ ASSETS LLC (DE) 

93. 
       
     HYATT LEGAL PLANS OF FLORIDA, INC. (FL) 

94. 
       
     HYATT LEGAL PLANS, INC. (DE) 

95. 
       
     INTERNATIONAL INVESTMENT HOLDING COMPANY LIMITED (RUSSIA) 

96. 
       
     INTERNATIONAL SERVICES INCORPORATED (US) 

97. 
       
     INTERNATIONAL TECHNICAL AND ADVISORY SERVICES LIMITED (US) 

98. 
       
     INVERSIONES INTERAMERICANA S.A. (CHILE) 

99. 
       
     INVERSIONES METLIFE HOLDCO DOS LIMITADA (Chile) 

100. 
       
     IRIS PROPERTIES, INC. (US) 

101. 
       
     KAPPA PROPERTIES JAPAN, INC. (US) 

102. 
       
     KRISMAN, INC. (MO) 

103. 
       
     LA INTERAMERICANA COMPANIA de SEGUROS de VIDA S.A. (CHILE) 

104. 
       
     LEGAGROUP S.A. 

105. 
       
     LEGAL CHILE S.A. 

106. 
       
     MET AFJP S.A. (ARGENTINA) 

107. 
       
     MET P C MANAGING GENERAL AGENCY, INC. (TX) 

108. 
       
     MET1 SIEFORE, S.A. de C.V. (MEXICO) 

109. 
       
     MET2 SIEFORE, S.A. de C.V. (MEXICO) 

110. 
       
     MET3 SIEFORE BASICA, S.A. de C.V. (MEXICO) 

111. 
       
     MET4 SIEFORE, S.A. de C.V. (MEXICO) 

112. 
       
     MET5 SIEFORE, S.A. de C.V. (MEXICO) 

113. 
       
     META SIEFORE ADICIONAL, S.A. de C.V. (MEXICO) 

114. 
       
     METLIFE ADMINISTRADORA DE FUNDOS MULTIPATROCINADOS LTDA. (BRAZIL) 

115. 
       
     METLIFE ADVISERS, LLC (MA) 

116. 
       
     METLIFE AFFILIATED INSURANCE AGENCY LLC (DE) 

117. 
       
     METLIFE AFORE, S.A. DE C.V. (MEXICO) 

118. 
       
     METLIFE ASSOCIATES LLC (DE) 

119. 
       
     METLIFE ASSURANCE LIMITED (UK) 

120. 
       
     METLIFE AUTO   HOME INSURANCE AGENCY, INC. (RI) 

121. 
       
     METLIFE BANK, NATIONAL ASSOCIATION (USA) 

122. 
       
     METLIFE CANADA/ METVIE CANADA (CANADA) 

123. 
       
     METLIFE CANADIAN PROPERTY VENTURES LLC (NY) 

124. 
       
     METLIFE CAPITAL CREDIT L.P. (DE) 

125. 
       
     METLIFE CAPITAL TRUST IV (DE) 

126. 
       
     METLIFE CAPITAL TRUST X (DE) 

127. 
       
     METLIFE CAPITAL, LIMITED PARTNERSHIP (DE) 

128. 
       
     METLIFE CHILE ADMINISTRADORA DE MUTUOS HIPOTECARIOS S.A. (CHILE) 

129. 
       
     METLIFE CHILE INVERSIONES LIMITADA (CHILE) 

130. 
       
     METLIFE CHILE SEGUROS DE VIDA S.A. (CHILE) 

131. 
       
     METLIFE CREDIT CORP. (DE) 

132. 
       
     METLIFE DIRECT CO.,LTD. (JAPAN) 

133. 
       
     METLIFE EUROPE LIMITED (IRELAND) 

134. 
       
     METLIFE EUROPE R LIMITED (IRELAND) 

135. 
       
     METLIFE EUROPE SERVICES LIMITED (IRELAND) 

136. 
       
     METLIFE EUROPEAN HOLDINGS, LLC. (DE) 

137. 
       
     METLIFE EXCHANGE TRUST I (DE) 

138. 
       
     METLIFE FUNDING, INC. (DE) 

139. 
       
     METLIFE GENERAL INSURANCE AGENCY OF MASSACHUSETTS, INC. (MA) 

140. 
       
     METLIFE GENERAL INSURANCE AGENCY OF TEXAS, INC. (TX) 

141. 
       
     METLIFE GENERAL INSURANCE LIMITED (AUSTRALIA) 

142. 
       
     METLIFE GLOBAL HOLDINGS CORPORATION (MEXICO) 

143. 
       
     METLIFE GLOBAL OPERATIONS SUPPORT CENTER PRIVATE LIMITED(INDIA) 

144. 
       
     METLIFE GLOBAL, INC. (DE) 

145. 
       
     METLIFE GREENSTONE SOUTHEAST VENTURES, LLC (DE) 

146. 
       
     METLIFE GROUP, INC. (NY) 

147. 
       
     METLIFE HOLDINGS, INC. (DE) 

148. 
       
     METLIFE INSURANCE AND INVESTMENT TRUST (AUSTRALIA) 

149. 
       
     METLIFE INSURANCE COMPANY OF CONNECTICUT (CT) 

150. 
       
     METLIFE INSURANCE LIMITED (AUSTRALIA) 

151. 
       
     METLIFE INSURANCE LIMITED (UNITED KINGDOM) 

152. 
       
     METLIFE INSURANCE S.A./NV (BELGIUM) 

153. 
       
     METLIFE INTERNATIONAL HOLDINGS, INC. (DE) 

154. 
       
     METLIFE INTERNATIONAL LIMITED, LLC (DE) 

155. 
       
     METLIFE INVESTMENT ADVISORS COMPANY, LLC (DE) 

156. 
       
     METLIFE INVESTMENT FUNDS SERVICES LLC (NJ) 

157. 
       
     METLIFE INVESTMENTS ASIA LIMITED (HONG KONG) 

158. 
       
     METLIFE INVESTMENTS LIMITED (UNITED KINGDOM) 

159. 
       
     METLIFE INVESTMENTS PTY LIMITED (AUSTRALIA) 

160. 
       
     METLIFE INVESTORS DISTRIBUTION COMPANY (MO) 

161. 
       
     METLIFE INVESTORS GROUP, INC. (DE) 

162. 
       
     METLIFE INVESTORS INSURANCE COMPANY (MO) 

163. 
       
     METLIFE INVESTORS USA INSURANCE COMPANY (DE) 

164. 
       
     METLIFE IRELAND HOLDINGS ONE LIMITED (IRELAND) 

165. 
       
     METLIFE IRELAND TREASURY LIMITED (IRELAND) 

166. 
       
     METLIFE LATIN AMERICA ASESORIAS E INVERSIONES LIMITADA (CHILE) 

167. 
       
     METLIFE LIMITED (HONG KONG) 

168. 
       
     METLIFE LIMITED (UNITED KINGDOM) 

169. 
       
     METLIFE MEXICO CARES, S.A. DE C.V. (MEXICO) 

170. 
       
     METLIFE MEXICO S.A. (MEXICO) 

171. 
       
     METLIFE MEXICO SERVICIOS, S.A. DE C.V. (MEXICO) 

172. 
       
     METLIFE NC LIMITED (IRELAND) 

173. 
       
     METLIFE PENSIONES MEXICO S.A. (MEXICO) 

174. 
       
     METLIFE PENSIONS TRUSTEES LIMITED (UK) 

175. 
       
     METLIFE PLANOS ODONTOLOGICOS LTDA. (BRAZIL) 

176. 
       
     METLIFE PRIVATE EQUITY HOLDINGS, LLC (DE) 

177. 
       
     METLIFE PROPERTIES VENTURES, LLC (DE) 

178. 
       
     METLIFE PROPERTY VENTURES CANADA ULC (CANADA) 

179. 
       
     METLIFE REAL ESTATE CAYMAN COMPANY (CAYMAN ISLANDS) 

180. 
       
     METLIFE REINSURANCE COMPANY OF CHARLESTON (SC) 

181. 
       
     METLIFE REINSURANCE COMPANY OF SOUTH CAROLINA (SC) 

182. 
       
     METLIFE REINSURANCE COMPANY OF VERMONT (VT) 

183. 
       
     METLIFE RENEWABLES HOLDING, LLC (DE) 

184. 
       
     METLIFE RETIREMENT SERVICES LLC (NJ) 

185. 
       
     METLIFE SAENGMYOUNG INSURANCE COMPANY LTD. (SOUTH KOREA) - (also
known as MetLife Insurance Company of Korea Limited) 

186. 
       
     METLIFE SECURITIES, INC. (DE) 

187. 
       
     METLIFE SEGUROS DE RETIRO S.A. (ARGENTINA) 

188. 
       
     METLIFE SEGUROS DE VIDA S.A. (ARGENTINA) 

189. 
       
     METLIFE SERVICES (SINGAPORE) PTE LIMITED (SINGAPORE) 

190. 
       
     METLIFE SERVICES AND SOLUTIONS, LLC (DE) 

191. 
       
     METLIFE SERVICES EAST PRIVATE LIMITED (INDIA) 

192. 
       
     METLIFE SERVICES LIMITED (UNITED KINGDOM) 

193. 
       
     METLIFE SOLUTIONS PTE. LTD. (SINGAPORE) 

194. 
       
     METLIFE STANDBY I, LLC (DE) 

195. 
       
     METLIFE TAIWAN INSURANCE COMPANY LIMITED (TAIWAN) 

196. 
       
     METLIFE TOWARZYSTWO UBEZPIECZEN NA ZYCIE SPOLKA AKCYJNA (POLAND) 

197. 
       
     METLIFE TOWER RESOURCES GROUP, INC. (DE) 

198. 
       
     METLIFE WORLDWIDE HOLDINGS, INC. (DE) 

199. 
       
     METPARK FUNDING, INC. (DE) 

200. 
       
     METROPOLITAN CASUALTY INSURANCE COMPANY (RI) 

201. 
       
     METROPOLITAN CONNECTICUT PROPERTIES VENTURES, LLC (DE) 

202. 
       
     METROPOLITAN DIRECT PROPERTY AND CASUALTY INSURANCE COMPANY (RI) 

203. 
       
     METROPOLITAN GENERAL INSURANCE COMPANY (RI) 

204. 
       
     METROPOLITAN GLOBAL MANAGEMENT, LLC. (DE) 

205. 
       
     METROPOLITAN GROUP PROPERTY AND CASUALTY INSURANCE COMPANY (RI) 

206. 
       
     METROPOLITAN LIFE INSURANCE COMPANY (NY) 

207. 
       
     METROPOLITAN LIFE INSURANCE COMPANY OF HONG KONG LIMITED (HONG KONG) 

208. 
       
     METROPOLITAN LIFE SEGUROS DE VIDA S.A. (URUGUAY) 

209. 
       
     METROPOLITAN LIFE SEGUROS E PREVID NCIA PRIVADA S.A. (BRAZIL) 

210. 
       
     METROPOLITAN LLOYDS, INC. (TX) 

211. 
       
     METROPOLITAN MARINE WAY INVESTMENTS LIMITED (CANADA) 

212. 
       
     METROPOLITAN PROPERTY AND CASUALTY INSURANCE COMPANY (RI) 

213. 
       
     METROPOLITAN REINSURANCE COMPANY (U.K.) LIMITED (UNITED KINGDOM) 

214. 
       
     METROPOLITAN TOWER LIFE INSURANCE COMPANY (DE) 

215. 
       
     METROPOLITAN TOWER REALTY COMPANY, INC. (DE) 

216. 
       
     MEX DF PROPERTIES, LLC (DE) 

217. 
       
     MIDTOWN HEIGHTS, LLC (DE) 

218. 
       
     MISSOURI REINSURANCE (BARBADOS), INC. (BARBADOS) 

219. 
       
     ML CAPACITACION COMERCIAL S.A. DE C.V. (MEXICO) 

220. 
       
     ML/VCC UT WEST JORDAN, LLC (DE) 

221. 
       
     MLA COMERCIAL, S.A. DE C.V. (MEXICO) 

222. 
       
     MLA SERVICIOS, S.A. DE C.V. (MEXICO) 

223. 
       
     MLGP LAKESIDE, LLC (DE) 

224. 
       
     MLIC ASSET HOLDINGS II LLC (DE) 

225. 
       
     MLIC ASSET HOLDINGS LLC (DE) 

226. 
       
     MSV IRVINE PROPERTY, LLC (DE) 

227. 
       
     MTC FUND I, LLC (DE) 

228. 
       
     MTC FUND II, LLC (DE) 

229. 
       
     MTC FUND III, LLC (DE) 

230. 
       
     MTL LEASING, LLC (DE) 

231. 
       
     NATILOPORTEM HOLDINGS, INC. (DE) 

232. 
       
     NEW ENGLAND LIFE INSURANCE COMPANY (MA) 

233. 
       
     NEW ENGLAND SECURITIES CORPORATION (MA) 

234. 
       
     NEWBURY INSURANCE COMPANY, LIMITED (BERMUDA) 

235. 
       
     ONE FINANCIAL PLACE CORPORATION (DE) 

236. 
       
     ONE MADISON INVESTMENTS (CAYCO) LIMITED (CAYMAN ISLANDS) 

237. 
       
     PANTHER VALLEY, INC. (NJ) 

238. 
       
     PARA-MET PLAZA ASSOCIATES (FL) 

239. 
       
     PARK TWENTY THREE INVESTMENTS COMPANY (UNITED KINGDOM) 

240. 
       
     PARTNERS TOWER, L.P. (DE) 

241. 
       
     PILGRIM ALTERNATIVE INVESTMENTS OPPORTUNITY FUND I, LLC (DE) 

242. 
       
     PJSC ALICO UKRAINE (UKRAINE) 

243. 
       
     PLAZA DRIVE PROPERTIES LLC (DE) 

244. 
       
     PLAZA LLC (CT) 

245. 
       
     PREFCO DIX-HUIT LLC (CT) 

246. 
       
     PREFCO FOURTEEN LIMITED PARTNERSHIP (CT) 

247. 
       
     PREFCO IX REALTY LLC (CT) 

248. 
       
     PREFCO TEN LIMITED PARTNERSHIP (CT) 

249. 
       
     PREFCO TWENTY LIMITED PARTNERSHIP (CT) 

250. 
       
     PREFCO VINGT LLC (CT) 

251. 
       
     PREFCO X HOLDINGS LLC (CT) 

252. 
       
     PREFCO XIV HOLDINGS LLC (CT) 

253. 
       
     SAFEGUARD DENTAL SERVICES, INC. (DE) 

254. 
       
     SAFEGUARD HEALTH PLANS, INC. (CA) 

METLIFE, INC. 
As of December 31, 2010 

Companies of which MetLife, Inc. directly or indirectly has actual ownership (for its own account)
of 10% through 99% of the total  outstanding voting stock 2 

2  
       
     Does not include real estate joint ventures and partnerships of which
MetLife, Inc. and/or its subsidiaries is an investment partner. 

3  
       
     Affiliate 

</EX-21.1>

<EX-23.1>
 35
 y87657exv23w1.htm
 EX-23.1

exv23w1 

Exhibit 23.1 

CONSENT OF INDEPENDENT REGISTERED PUBLIC ACCOUNTING FIRM 

We consent to the incorporation by reference in Registration Statement Nos. 333-170876,
333-170876-01, 333-170876-02, 333-170876-03, 333-170876-04 and 333-170876-05 on Form S-3 and
333-170879, 333-162927, 333-162926, 333-148024, 333-139384, 333-139383, 333-139382, 333-139380,
333-121344, 333-121343, 333-121342, 333-102306, 333-101291, 333-59134 and 333-37108 on Form S-8 of
our report on the consolidated financial statements and financial statement schedules of MetLife,
Inc., and subsidiaries (the  Company ) dated February 24, 2011 (which expresses an unqualified
opinion and includes an explanatory paragraph regarding changes in the Company s method of
accounting for the recognition and presentation of other-than-temporary impairment losses for
certain investments as required by accounting guidance adopted on April 1, 2009 and its method of
accounting for certain assets and liabilities to a fair value measurement approach as required by
accounting guidance adopted on January 1, 2008) and our report on the effectiveness of the
Company s internal control over financial reporting dated February 24, 2011, appearing in this
Annual Report on Form 10-K of the Company for the year ended December 31, 2010.

</EX-23.1>

<EX-31.1>
 36
 y87657exv31w1.htm
 EX-31.1

exv31w1 

Exhibit 31.1 

CERTIFICATIONS 

I, C. Robert Henrikson, certify that:

1. I have reviewed this annual report on Form 10-K of MetLife, Inc.;

2. Based on my knowledge, this report does not contain any untrue statement of a material fact
or omit to state a material fact necessary to make the statements made, in light of the
circumstances under which such statements were made, not misleading with respect to the period
covered by this report;

3. Based on my knowledge, the financial statements, and other financial information included
in this report, fairly present in all material respects the financial condition, results of
operations and cash flows of the registrant as of, and for, the periods presented in this report;

4. The registrant s other certifying officer(s) and I are responsible for establishing and
maintaining disclosure controls and procedures (as defined in Exchange Act Rules 13a-15(e) and
15d-15(e)) and internal control over financial reporting (as defined in Exchange Act Rules
13a-15(f) and 15(d)-15(f)) for the registrant and have:

a) 
       
     Designed such disclosure controls and procedures, or caused such disclosure
controls and procedures to be designed under our supervision, to ensure that material
information relating to the registrant, including its consolidated subsidiaries, is made
known to us by others within those entities, particularly during the period in which
this report is being prepared; 

b) 
       
     Designed such internal control over financial reporting, or caused such internal
control over financial reporting to be designed under our supervision, to provide
reasonable assurance regarding the reliability of financial reporting and the
preparation of financial statements for external purposes in accordance with generally
accepted accounting principles; 

c) 
       
     Evaluated the effectiveness of the registrant s disclosure controls and
procedures and presented in this report our conclusions about the effectiveness of the
disclosure controls and procedures, as of the end of the period covered by this report
based on such evaluation; and 

d) 
       
     Disclosed in this report any change in the registrant s internal control over
financial reporting that occurred during the registrant s most recent fiscal quarter
(the registrant s fourth fiscal quarter in the case of an annual report) that has
materially affected, or is reasonably likely to materially affect, the registrant s
internal control over financial reporting; and 

5. The registrant s other certifying officer(s) and I have disclosed, based on our most recent
evaluation of internal control over financial reporting, to the registrant s auditors and the audit
committee of the registrant s board of directors (or persons performing the equivalent functions):

a) 
       
     All significant deficiencies and material weaknesses in the design or operation
of internal control over financial reporting which are reasonably likely to adversely
affect the registrant s ability to record, process, summarize and report financial
information; and 

b) 
       
     Any fraud, whether or not material, that involves management or other employees
who have a significant role in the registrant s internal control over financial
reporting. 

Date: February 24, 2011

/s/ C. Robert Henrikson  

C. Robert Henrikson 

Chairman, President and 

Chief Executive Officer 

</EX-31.1>

<EX-31.2>
 37
 y87657exv31w2.htm
 EX-31.2

exv31w2 

Exhibit 31.2 

CERTIFICATIONS 

I, William J. Wheeler, certify that:

1. I have reviewed this annual report on Form 10-K of MetLife, Inc.;

2. Based on my knowledge, this report does not contain any untrue statement of a material fact
or omit to state a material fact necessary to make the statements made, in light of the
circumstances under which such statements were made, not misleading with respect to the period
covered by this report;

3. Based on my knowledge, the financial statements, and other financial information included
in this report, fairly present in all material respects the financial condition, results of
operations and cash flows of the registrant as of, and for, the periods presented in this report;

4. The registrant s other certifying officer(s) and I are responsible for establishing and
maintaining disclosure controls and procedures (as defined in Exchange Act Rules 13a-15(e) and
15d-15(e)) and internal control over financial reporting (as defined in Exchange Act Rules
13a-15(f) and 15(d)-15(f)) for the registrant and have:

a) 
       
     Designed such disclosure controls and procedures, or caused such disclosure
controls and procedures to be designed under our supervision, to ensure that material
information relating to the registrant, including its consolidated subsidiaries, is made
known to us by others within those entities, particularly during the period in which
this report is being prepared; 

b) 
       
     Designed such internal control over financial reporting, or caused such internal
control over financial reporting to be designed under our supervision, to provide
reasonable assurance regarding the reliability of financial reporting and the
preparation of financial statements for external purposes in accordance with generally
accepted accounting principles; 

c) 
       
     Evaluated the effectiveness of the registrant s disclosure controls and
procedures and presented in this report our conclusions about the effectiveness of the
disclosure controls and procedures, as of the end of the period covered by this report
based on such evaluation; and 

d) 
       
     Disclosed in this report any change in the registrant s internal control over
financial reporting that occurred during the registrant s most recent fiscal quarter
(the registrant s fourth fiscal quarter in the case of an annual report) that has
materially affected, or is reasonably likely to materially affect, the registrant s
internal control over financial reporting; and 

5. The registrant s other certifying officer(s) and I have disclosed, based on our most recent
evaluation of internal control over financial reporting, to the registrant s auditors and the audit
committee of the registrant s board of directors (or persons performing the equivalent functions):

a) 
       
     All significant deficiencies and material weaknesses in the design or operation
of internal control over financial reporting which are reasonably likely to adversely
affect the registrant s ability to record, process, summarize and report financial
information; and 

b) 
       
     Any fraud, whether or not material, that involves management or other employees
who have a significant role in the registrant s internal control over financial
reporting. 

Date:
February 24, 2011

/s/ William J. Wheeler 

William J. Wheeler  
Executive Vice President and  
Chief Financial Officer 

</EX-31.2>

<EX-32.1>
 38
 y87657exv32w1.htm
 EX-32.1

exv32w1 

Exhibit 32.1 

SECTION 906 CERTIFICATION

CERTIFICATION PURSUANT TO SECTION 1350 OF CHAPTER 63 OF TITLE 18 OF THE UNITED STATES CODE

I, C. Robert Henrikson, certify that (i) MetLife, Inc. s Annual Report on Form 10-K for the
year ended December 31, 2010 (the  Form 10-K ) fully complies with the requirements of Section
13(a) or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, and (ii) the information contained in the
Form 10-K fairly presents, in all material respects, the financial condition and results of
operations of MetLife, Inc.

Date: February 24, 2011

/s/ C. Robert Henrikson   

C. Robert Henrikson  
Chairman, President and  
Chief Executive Officer 

A signed original of this written statement required by Section 906 has been provided to
MetLife, Inc. and will be retained by MetLife, Inc. and furnished to the Securities and Exchange
Commission or its staff upon request.

</EX-32.1>

<EX-32.2>
 39
 y87657exv32w2.htm
 EX-32.2

exv32w2 

Exhibit 32.2 

SECTION 906 CERTIFICATION

CERTIFICATION PURSUANT TO SECTION 1350 OF CHAPTER 63 OF TITLE 18 OF THE UNITED STATES CODE

I, William J. Wheeler, certify that (i) MetLife, Inc. s Annual Report on Form 10-K for the
year ended December 31, 2010 (the  Form 10-K ) fully complies with the requirements of Section
13(a) or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, and (ii) the information contained in the
Form 10-K fairly presents, in all material respects, the financial condition and results of
operations of MetLife, Inc.

Date:
February 24, 2011

/s/ William J. Wheeler 

William J. Wheeler 

Executive Vice President and 

Chief Financial Officer 

A signed original of this written statement required by Section 906 has been provided to
MetLife, Inc. and will be retained by MetLife, Inc. and furnished to the Securities and Exchange
Commission or its staff upon request.

</EX-32.2>

<EX-101.INS>
 41
 met-20101231.xml
 EX-101 INSTANCE DOCUMENT

</EX-101.INS>

<EX-101.SCH>
 42
 met-20101231.xsd
 EX-101 SCHEMA DOCUMENT

</EX-101.SCH>

<EX-101.CAL>
 43
 met-20101231_cal.xml
 EX-101 CALCULATION LINKBASE DOCUMENT

</EX-101.CAL>

<EX-101.LAB>
 44
 met-20101231_lab.xml
 EX-101 LABELS LINKBASE DOCUMENT

</EX-101.LAB>

<EX-101.PRE>
 45
 met-20101231_pre.xml
 EX-101 PRESENTATION LINKBASE DOCUMENT

</EX-101.PRE>

<EX-101.DEF>
 46
 met-20101231_def.xml
 EX-101 DEFINITION LINKBASE DOCUMENT

</EX-101.DEF>

COVER
 49
 filename49.htm

cover 

MetLife, Inc. 
1095 Avenue of the Americas 
New York, NY 10036 
212 578-2211

Miriam B. Fine 
Assistant General Counsel 
Law Department 
Tel 212 578-0423 Fax 212 251-1653

February 24, 2011

VIA EDGAR   
Securities and Exchange Commission 
100 F Street, N.E. 
Washington D.C. 20549

Dear Sir or Madam:

On behalf of MetLife, Inc. (the  Company ), transmitted herewith is the Company s Annual
Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2010 (the  Form 10-K ).

As discussed in Note 1 to the Company s consolidated financial statements contained in the
Form 10-K, the consolidated financial statements reflect a change in the method of accounting for
the recognition and presentation of other-than-temporary impairment losses for certain investments
as required by accounting guidance adopted on April 1, 2009, and a change in the method of
accounting for certain assets and liabilities to a fair value measurement approach as required by
accounting guidance adopted on January 1, 2008.

Sincerely, 

/s/ Miriam B. Fine

Miriam B. Fine  

Attachment

