<Header>
<FileStats>
    <FileName>20090227_10-K_edgar_data_34088_0001193125-09-040966_1.txt</FileName>
    <GrossFileSize>3026718</GrossFileSize>
    <NetFileSize>303816</NetFileSize>
    <NonText_DocumentType_Chars>53256</NonText_DocumentType_Chars>
    <HTML_Chars>1987336</HTML_Chars>
    <XBRL_Chars>0</XBRL_Chars>
    <XML_Chars>0</XML_Chars>
    <N_Tables>120</N_Tables>
    <N_Exhibits>11</N_Exhibits>
</FileStats>
<SEC-Header>
0001193125-09-040966.hdr.sgml : 20091204

<ACCEPTANCE-DATETIME>20090227161654

<PRIVATE-TO-PUBLIC>

ACCESSION NUMBER:		0001193125-09-040966

CONFORMED SUBMISSION TYPE:	10-K

PUBLIC DOCUMENT COUNT:		18

CONFORMED PERIOD OF REPORT:	20081231

FILED AS OF DATE:		20090227

DATE AS OF CHANGE:		20091020


FILER:


	COMPANY DATA:	

		COMPANY CONFORMED NAME:			EXXON MOBIL CORP

		CENTRAL INDEX KEY:			0000034088

		STANDARD INDUSTRIAL CLASSIFICATION:	PETROLEUM REFINING [2911]

		IRS NUMBER:				135409005

		STATE OF INCORPORATION:			NJ

		FISCAL YEAR END:			1231



	FILING VALUES:

		FORM TYPE:		10-K

		SEC ACT:		1934 Act

		SEC FILE NUMBER:	001-02256

		FILM NUMBER:		09643163



	BUSINESS ADDRESS:	

		STREET 1:		5959 LAS COLINAS BLVD

		CITY:			IRVING

		STATE:			TX

		ZIP:			75039-2298

		BUSINESS PHONE:		9724441000



	MAIL ADDRESS:	

		STREET 1:		5959 LAS COLINAS BLVD

		CITY:			IRVING

		STATE:			TX

		ZIP:			75039-2298



	FORMER COMPANY:	

		FORMER CONFORMED NAME:	EXXON CORP

		DATE OF NAME CHANGE:	19920703



	FORMER COMPANY:	

		FORMER CONFORMED NAME:	STANDARD OIL CO OF NEW JERSEY

		DATE OF NAME CHANGE:	19721123




</SEC-Header>
</Header>

 
Proc-Type: 2001,MIC-CLEAR
Originator-Name: webmaster@www.sec.gov
Originator-Key-Asymmetric:
 MFgwCgYEVQgBAQICAf8DSgAwRwJAW2sNKK9AVtBzYZmr6aGjlWyK3XmZv3dTINen
 TWSM7vrzLADbmYQaionwg5sDW3P6oaM5D3tdezXMm7z1T+B+twIDAQAB
MIC-Info: RSA-MD5,RSA,
 SHWhhryCVaHdvuA8kveyVt/oOHA2V/yrG4trB/v+YnR3BtoZUgnM0uM5wVrK1IGO
 MAKlfStfJY/peiRZeUH+dw==

 0001193125-09-040966.txt : 20091204

10-K
 1
 d10k.htm
 FORM 10-K

Form 10-K 

Table of Contents  

  Index to Financial Statements  

   2008       UNITED STATES      SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE
COMMISSION      WASHINGTON, D.C. 20549       FORM 10-K             ANNUAL REPORT
PURSUANT TO SECTION 13 OR 15(d) OF      THE SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934      For the fiscal year ended December 31, 2008      or             TRANSITION REPORT PURSUANT TO SECTION 13 OR 15(d) OF      THE SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934      For the
transition period from                to                     Commission File Number 1-2256       EXXON MOBIL
CORPORATION       (Exact name of registrant as specified in its charter)         

NEW JERSEY     (State or other jurisdiction of incorporation or organization)   
     
    13-5409005     (I.R.S. Employer Identification Number)    
          5959 LAS COLINAS
BOULEVARD, IRVING, TEXAS 75039-2298      (Address of principal executive offices) (Zip Code)      (972) 444-1000      (Registrant s telephone
number, including area code)       Securities registered pursuant to Section 12(b) of the Act:

Title of Each Class     
      
   Name of Each Exchange on Which Registered      
 
     Common Stock, without par value (4,941,630,490 shares outstanding at January 31, 2009)    
      
   New York Stock Exchange    
 
   Registered securities guaranteed by Registrant:   

SeaRiver Maritime Financial Holdings, Inc.    

Twenty-Five Year Debt Securities due October 1, 2011    
      
   New York Stock Exchange    
          Indicate by check
mark if the registrant is a well-known seasoned issuer, as defined in Rule 405 of the Securities Act.  Yes            No                         Indicate by check mark if the registrant is not required to file reports pursuant to Section 13 or Section 15(d) of the
Act.  Yes           No                   
     Indicate by check mark whether the registrant (1) has filed all reports required to be filed by Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities
Exchange Act of 1934 during the preceding 12 months (or for such shorter period that the registrant was required to file such reports), and (2) has been subject to such filing requirements for the past 90
days.  Yes            No                      Indicate by check mark if disclosure of delinquent filers pursuant to Item 405 of Regulation S-K is not contained herein,
and will not be contained, to the best of registrant s knowledge, in definitive proxy or information statements incorporated by reference in Part III of this Form 10-K or any amendment to this Form 10-K.                       Indicate
by check mark whether the registrant is a large accelerated filer, an accelerated filer, a non-accelerated filer or a smaller reporting company. See the definitions of  large accelerated filer,   accelerated filer,  and
 smaller reporting company  in Rule 12b-2 of the Exchange Act.            Large accelerated filer                    Accelerated filer
                        Non-accelerated
filer                    Smaller reporting company                      Indicate by check mark whether the registrant is a shell company (as defined by Rule 12b-2 of the
Act).  Yes           No                   
     The aggregate market value of the voting stock held by non-affiliates of the registrant on June 30, 2008, the last business day of the
registrant s most recently completed second fiscal quarter, based on the closing price on that date of $88.13 on the New York Stock Exchange composite tape, was in excess of $457 billion.             Documents Incorporated by Reference:            Proxy Statement for the 2009 Annual Meeting of Shareholders (Part III)     

Table of Contents  

  Index to Financial Statements  

      EXXON MOBIL CORPORATION        FORM 10-K        FOR THE FISCAL YEAR ENDED DECEMBER 31, 2008              TABLE OF CONTENTS          

Page Number        
 
   PART I    

Item 1.  
      
     Business     
      
  1   

Item 1A.  
      
     Risk Factors     
      
  2   

Item 1B.  
      
     Unresolved Staff Comments     
      
  6   

Item 2.  
      
     Properties     
      
  6   

Item 3.  
      
     Legal Proceedings     
      
  26   

Item 4.  
      
     Submission of Matters to a Vote of Security Holders     
      
  27   

Executive Officers of the Registrant [pursuant to Instruction 3 to Regulation S-K, Item 401(b)]    
      
  28   

PART II    

Item 5.  
      
     Market for Registrant s Common Equity, Related Stockholder Matters and Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities

29   

Item 6.  
      
     Selected Financial Data     
      
  30   

Item 7.  
      
     Management s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations     
      
  30   

Item 7A.  
      
     Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk     
      
  30   

Item 8.  
      
     Financial Statements and Supplementary Data     
      
  30   

Item 9.  
      
   Changes in and Disagreements With Accountants on Accounting and Financial Disclosure    
      
  31   

Item 9A.  
      
   Controls and Procedures    
      
  31   

Item 9B.  
      
   Other Information    
      
  31   

PART III    

Item 10.  
      
     Directors, Executive Officers and Corporate Governance     
      
  31   

Item 11.  
      
     Executive Compensation     
      
  32   

Item 12.  
      
     Security Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owners and Management and Related Stockholder Matters     
      
  32   

Item 13.  
      
     Certain Relationships and Related Transactions, and Director Independence     
      
  33   

Item 14.  
      
     Principal Accounting Fees and Services     
      
  33   

PART IV    

Item 15.  
      
     Exhibits, Financial Statement Schedules    
      
  33   

Signatures    
      
  98   

Index to Exhibits    
      
  100   

Exhibit 12   Computation of Ratio of Earnings to Fixed Charges  

Exhibits 31 and 32   Certifications  

Table of Contents  

  Index to Financial Statements  

    PART I              Item 1.         Business.                Exxon Mobil Corporation was incorporated in the State of New Jersey in 1882. Divisions and affiliated companies of
ExxonMobil operate or market products in the United States and most other countries of the world. Their principal business is energy, involving exploration for, and production of, crude oil and natural gas, manufacture of petroleum products and
transportation and sale of crude oil, natural gas and petroleum products. ExxonMobil is a major manufacturer and marketer of commodity petrochemicals, including olefins, aromatics, polyethylene and polypropylene plastics and a wide variety of
specialty products. ExxonMobil also has interests in electric power generation facilities. Affiliates of ExxonMobil conduct extensive research programs in support of these businesses.            Exxon Mobil Corporation has several divisions and hundreds of affiliates, many with names that include  ExxonMobil, Exxon,
Esso  or  Mobil . For convenience and simplicity, in this report the terms  ExxonMobil, Exxon, Esso  and  Mobil , as well as terms like  Corporation, Company, our, we  and  its , are sometimes used as abbreviated
references to specific affiliates or groups of affiliates. The precise meaning depends on the context in question.            Throughout ExxonMobil s businesses, new and ongoing measures are taken to prevent and minimize the impact of our operations on air, water and ground.
These include a significant investment in refining infrastructure and technology to manufacture clean fuels as well as projects to reduce nitrogen oxide and sulfur oxide emissions and expenditures for asset retirement obligations. ExxonMobil s
2008 worldwide environmental expenditures for all such preventative and remediation steps, including ExxonMobil s share of equity company expenditures, were about $5.2 billion, of which $2.5 billion were capital expenditures and $2.7
billion were included in expenses. The total cost for such activities is expected to remain in this range in 2009 and 2010 (with capital expenditures approximately 50 percent of the total).            Operating data and industry segment information for the Corporation are
contained in the Financial Section of this report under the following:  Quarterly Information ,  Note 17: Disclosures about Segments and Related Information  and  Operating Summary . Information on oil and gas reserves
is contained in the  Oil and Gas Reserves  part of the  Supplemental Information on Oil and Gas Exploration and Production Activities  portion of the Financial Section of this report. ExxonMobil has a long-standing commitment to
the development of proprietary technology. We have a wide array of research programs designed to meet the needs identified in each of our business segments. Information on Company-sponsored research and development spending is contained in
 Note 3: Miscellaneous Financial Information  of the Financial Section of this report. ExxonMobil held approximately 11 thousand active patents worldwide at the end of 2008. For technology licensed to third parties, revenues totaled
approximately $125 million in 2008. Although technology is an important contributor to the overall operations and results of our Company, the profitability of each business segment is not dependent on any individual patent, trade secret, trademark,
license, franchise or concession.            The number of regular
employees was 79.9 thousand, 80.8 thousand and 82.1 thousand at years ended 2008, 2007 and 2006, respectively. Regular employees are defined as active executive, management, professional, technical and wage employees who work full
time or part time for the Corporation and are covered by the Corporation s benefit plans and programs. Regular employees do not include employees of the company-operated retail sites (CORS). The number of CORS employees was 24.8 thousand,
26.3 thousand and 24.3 thousand at years ended 2008, 2007 and 2006, respectively.            ExxonMobil maintains a website at exxonmobil.com. Our annual report on Form 10-K, quarterly reports on Form 10-Q, current reports on Form 8-K and any amendments to those reports filed or  
       
   1   

Table of Contents  

  Index to Financial Statements  

furnished pursuant to Section 13(a) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 are made available through our website as soon as reasonably practical after
we electronically file or furnish the reports to the Securities and Exchange Commission. Also available on the Corporation s website are the Company s Corporate Governance Guidelines and Code of Ethics and Business Conduct, as well as the
charters of the audit, compensation and nominating committees of the Board of Directors. All of these documents are available in print without charge to shareholders who request them. Information on our website is not incorporated into this report.

Item 1A.   
          Risk Factors   .               ExxonMobil s financial and operating results are subject to a variety of risks inherent in the global oil and gas business. Many of these risk
factors are not within the Company s control and could adversely affect our business, our financial and operating results or our financial condition. These factors include the following:             Industry and Economic Factors:     The oil and gas
business is fundamentally a commodity business. This means the operations and earnings of the Corporation and its affiliates throughout the world may be significantly affected by changes in oil, gas and petrochemical prices and by changes in margins
on gasoline and other refined products. Oil, gas, petrochemical and product prices and margins in turn depend on local, regional and global events or conditions that affect supply and demand for the relevant commodity. These events or conditions are
generally not predictable and include, among other things:         

general economic growth rates and the occurrence of economic recessions;            

the development of new supply sources;            

adherence by countries to OPEC quotas;            

supply disruptions;            

weather, including seasonal patterns that affect regional energy demand (such as the demand for heating oil or gas in winter) as well as severe weather events (such
as hurricanes) that can disrupt supplies or interrupt the operation of ExxonMobil facilities;            

technological advances, including advances in exploration, production, refining and petrochemical manufacturing technology and advances in technology relating to
energy usage;            

changes in demographics, including population growth rates and consumer preferences; and            

the competitiveness of alternative hydrocarbon or other energy sources.               Under certain market conditions, factors that have a positive impact on one segment of our business may have a negative impact on another
segment and vice versa.             Competitive
Factors:     The energy and petrochemical industries are highly competitive. There is competition within the industries and also with other industries in supplying the energy, fuel and chemical needs of both industrial and
individual consumers. The Corporation competes with other firms in the sale or purchase of needed goods and services in many national and international markets and employs all methods of competition which are lawful and appropriate for such
purposes.            A key component of the Corporation s
competitive position, particularly given the commodity-based nature of many of its businesses, is ExxonMobil s ability to manage expenses successfully. This requires continuous management focus on reducing unit costs and improving efficiency
including through technology improvements, cost control, productivity enhancements and regular reappraisal of our asset portfolio.         
   2   

Table of Contents  

  Index to Financial Statements  

    Political and Legal Factors:     The operations and earnings of the Corporation
and its affiliates throughout the world have been, and may in the future be, affected from time to time in varying degree by political and legal factors including:         

political instability or lack of well-established and reliable legal systems in areas where the Corporation operates;            

other political developments and laws and regulations, such as expropriation or forced divestiture of assets, unilateral cancellation or modification of contract
terms, and regulation of certain energy markets;            

laws and regulations related to environmental or energy security matters, including those addressing alternative energy sources and the risks of global climate
change;            

restrictions on exploration, production, imports and exports;            

restrictions on the Corporation s ability to do business with certain countries, or to engage in certain areas of business within a country;

price controls;            

tax or royalty increases, including retroactive claims;            

war or other international conflicts; and            

civil unrest.               Both the likelihood of these occurrences and their overall effect upon the Corporation vary greatly from country to country and are not predictable.             Project Factors:     In addition to some of the
factors cited above, ExxonMobil s results depend upon the Corporation s ability to develop and operate major projects and facilities as planned. The Corporation s results will therefore be affected by events or conditions that impact
the advancement, operation, cost or results of such projects or facilities, including:         

the outcome of negotiations with co-venturers, governments, suppliers, customers or others (including, for example, our ability to negotiate favorable long-term
contracts with customers, or the development of reliable spot markets, that may be necessary to support the development of particular production projects);            

reservoir performance and natural field decline;            

changes in operating conditions and costs, including costs of third party equipment or services such as drilling rigs and shipping;            

security concerns or acts of terrorism that threaten or disrupt the safe operation of company facilities; and            

the occurrence of unforeseen technical difficulties (including technical problems that may delay start-up or interrupt production from an Upstream project or that
may lead to unexpected downtime of refineries or petrochemical plants).               The Corporation s overall volume capacity outlook, based on projects coming on stream as anticipated, is for production capacity to grow over the period 2009-2013. However, actual volumes will vary from year to
year due to the timing of individual project start-ups, operational outages, reservoir performance, regulatory changes, asset sales, weather events, price effects on production sharing contracts and other factors described above.         
   3   

Table of Contents  

  Index to Financial Statements  

   The estimation of proved reserves, which is based on the requirement of reasonable certainty, is an
ongoing process based on rigorous technical evaluations, commercial and market assessments and detailed analysis of well information such as flow rates and reservoir pressure declines. Furthermore, the Corporation only records proved reserves for
projects which have received significant funding commitments by management made toward the development of the reserves. Although the Corporation is reasonably certain that proved reserves will be produced, the timing and amount recovered can be
affected by a number of factors including completion of development projects, reservoir performance, regulatory approvals and significant changes in projections of long-term oil and gas price levels.             Market Risk Factors:              
          Crude oil, natural
gas, petroleum product and chemical prices have fluctuated in response to changing market forces. The impacts of these price fluctuations on earnings from Upstream, Downstream and Chemical operations have varied. In the Upstream a $1 per barrel
change in the weighted-average realized price of oil would have approximately a $375 million annual after-tax effect on Upstream consolidated plus equity company earnings. Similarly, a $0.10 per kcf change in the worldwide average gas realization
would have approximately a $175 million annual after-tax effect on Upstream consolidated plus equity company earnings. For any given period, the extent of actual benefit or detriment will be dependent on the price movements of individual types of
crude oil, taxes and other government take impacts, price adjustment lags in long-term gas contracts, and crude and gas production volumes. Accordingly, changes in benchmark prices for crude oil and natural gas only provide broad indicators of
changes in the earnings experienced in any particular period.            In the very competitive downstream and chemical environments, earnings are primarily determined by margin capture rather than absolute price levels of products sold. Refining margins are a function of the difference between what a refiner
pays for its raw materials (primarily crude oil) and the market prices for the range of products produced. These prices in turn depend on global and regional supply/demand balances, inventory levels, refinery operations, import/export balances and
weather.            The global energy markets can give rise to extended
periods in which market conditions are adverse to one or more of the Corporation s businesses. Such conditions, along with the capital-intensive nature of the industry and very long lead times associated with many of our projects, underscore
the importance of maintaining a strong financial position. Management views the Corporation s financial strength, including the AAA and Aaa ratings of its long-term debt securities by Standard   Poor s and Moody s, as a
competitive advantage.            In general, segment results are not
dependent on the ability to sell and/or purchase products to/from other segments. Instead, where such sales take place, they are the result of efficiencies and competitive advantages of integrated refinery/chemical complexes. Additionally,
intersegment sales are at market-based prices. The products bought and sold between segments can also be acquired in worldwide markets that have substantial liquidity, capacity and transportation capabilities. About 40 percent of the
Corporation s intersegment sales are crude oil produced by the Upstream and sold to the Downstream. Other intersegment sales include those between refineries and chemical plants related to raw materials, feedstocks and finished products.
        
   4   

Table of Contents  

  Index to Financial Statements  

   Although price levels of crude oil and natural gas may rise or fall significantly over the short to
medium term due to political events, OPEC actions and other factors, industry economics over the long term will continue to be driven by market supply and demand. Accordingly, the Corporation tests the viability of all of its investments over a
broad range of future prices. The Corporation s assessment is that its operations will continue to be successful in a variety of market conditions. This is the outcome of disciplined investment and asset management programs. Investment
opportunities are tested against a variety of market conditions, including low-price scenarios.            The Corporation has an active asset management program in which underperforming assets are either improved to acceptable levels or considered for
divestment. The asset management program includes a disciplined, regular review to ensure that all assets are contributing to the Corporation s strategic objectives. The result is an efficient capital base, and the Corporation has seldom had to
write down the carrying value of assets, even during periods of low commodity prices.             Risk Management             The Corporation s size,
strong capital structure, geographic diversity and the complementary nature of the Upstream, Downstream and Chemical businesses reduce the Corporation s enterprise-wide risk from changes in interest rates, currency rates and commodity prices.
As a result, the Corporation makes limited use of derivative instruments to mitigate the impact of such changes. The Corporation does not engage in speculative derivative activities or derivative trading activities nor does it use derivatives with
leveraged features. The Corporation maintains a system of controls that includes the authorization, reporting and monitoring of derivative activity. The Corporation s limited derivative activities pose no material credit or market risks to
ExxonMobil s operations, financial condition or liquidity.  Note 12: Financial Instruments and Derivatives  of the Financial Section of this report summarizes the fair value of derivatives outstanding at year end and the gains or
losses that have been recognized in net income.            The
Corporation is exposed to changes in interest rates, primarily on its short-term debt and the portion of long-term debt that carries floating interest rates. The impact of a 100-basis-point change in interest rates affecting the Corporation s
debt would not be material to earnings, cash flow or fair value. The Corporation s cash balances exceeded total debt at year-end 2008 and 2007. During 2008, credit markets tightened and the global economy slowed. The Corporation is not
dependent on the credit markets to fund current operations. However, some joint-venture partners are dependent on the credit markets and their funding ability may impact the development pace of joint-venture projects.            The Corporation conducts business in many foreign currencies and is subject
to exchange rate risk on cash flows related to sales, expenses, financing and investment transactions. The impacts of fluctuations in exchange rates on ExxonMobil s geographically and functionally diverse operations are varied and often
offsetting in amount. The Corporation makes limited use of currency exchange contracts, commodity forwards, swaps and futures contracts to mitigate the impact of changes in currency values and commodity prices. Exposures related to the
Corporation s limited use of the above contracts are not material.             Inflation and Other Uncertainties             The general
rate of inflation in many major countries of operation increased in 2008 versus the relatively low rates in recent years, and the associated impact on non-energy costs has generally been mitigated by cost reductions from efficiency and productivity
improvements. Increased global  
       
   5   

Table of Contents  

  Index to Financial Statements  

demand for certain services and materials has resulted in higher operating and capital costs in recent years. The Corporation works to counter upward
pressure on costs through its economies of scale in global procurement and its efficient project management practices.            Projections, estimates and descriptions of ExxonMobil s plans and objectives included or incorporated in Items 1, 2, 7 and 7A of this report are
forward-looking statements. Actual future results, including project completion dates, production rates, capital expenditures, costs and business plans could differ materially due to, among other things, the factors discussed above and elsewhere in
this report.         

Item 1B.   
          Unresolved Staff Comments.                  None.               Item 2.       Properties.                Part of the information in response to this item and to the Securities Exchange Act Industry Guide 2 is contained in
 Note 8: Property, Plant and Equipment and Asset Retirement Obligations  and in the  Supplemental Information on Oil and Gas Exploration and Production Activities,  both included in the Financial Section of this report.
             Information with regard to oil and gas producing activities follows: 

1.   
      
   Net Reserves of Crude Oil and Natural Gas Liquids and Natural Gas at Year-End 2008    
          Estimated proved
reserves are shown in the  Oil and Gas Reserves  part of the  Supplemental Information on Oil and Gas Exploration and Production Activities  portion of the Financial Section of this report. No major discovery or other favorable
or adverse event has occurred since December 31, 2008, that would cause a significant change in the estimated proved reserves as of that date. For information on the standardized measure of discounted future net cash flows relating to proved oil and
gas reserves, see the  Standardized Measure of Discounted Future Cash Flows  part of the  Supplemental Information on Oil and Gas Exploration and Production Activities  portion of the Financial Section of this report.   
        The table below summarizes the oil-equivalent proved reserves in each
geographic area for consolidated subsidiaries as detailed in the  Oil and Gas Reserves  part of the  Supplemental Information on Oil and Gas Exploration and Production Activities  portion of the Financial Section of this report
for the year ended December 31, 2008. The Corporation has reported proved reserves on the basis of December 31 prices and costs. Gas is converted to an oil-equivalent basis at six million cubic feet per one thousand barrels.         
       
   6   

Table of Contents  

  Index to Financial Statements  

   Additional detail on developed and undeveloped oil-equivalent proved reserves is shown in the table
below.         
          In the preceding
reserves information, and in the reserves tables in the  Oil and Gas Reserves  part of the  Supplemental Information on Oil and Gas Exploration and Production Activities  portion of the Financial Section of this report,
consolidated subsidiary and equity company reserves are reported separately. However, the Corporation operates its business with the same view of equity company reserves as it has for reserves from consolidated subsidiaries.            The Corporation s overall volume capacity outlook, based on projects
coming on stream as anticipated, is for production capacity to grow over the period 2009-2013. However, actual volumes will vary from year to year due to the timing of individual project start-ups, operational outages, reservoir performance,
regulatory changes, asset sales, weather events, price effects on production sharing contracts and other factors as described in Item 1A Risk Factors of this report.       
     The estimation of proved reserves, which is based on the requirement of reasonable certainty, is an ongoing process based on rigorous
technical evaluations, commercial and market assessments and detailed analysis of well information such as flow rates and reservoir pressure declines. Furthermore, the Corporation only records proved reserves for projects which have received
significant funding commitments by management made toward the development of the reserves. Although the Corporation is reasonably certain that proved reserves will be produced, the timing and amount recovered can be affected by a number of factors
including completion of development projects, reservoir performance, regulatory approvals and significant changes in projections of long-term oil and gas price levels.       
      2.    Estimates of Total Net Proved Oil and Gas Reserves Filed with Other Federal Agencies             During 2008, ExxonMobil filed proved reserves estimates with the U.S.
Department of Energy on Forms EIA-23 and EIA-28. The information on Form EIA-28 is presented on the same basis as the registrant s Annual Report on Form 10-K for 2007, which shows ExxonMobil s net interests in all liquids and gas reserve
volumes and changes thereto from both ExxonMobil-operated properties and properties operated by others. The data on Form EIA-23, although consistent with the data on Form EIA-28, is presented on a different basis, and includes 100 percent of
the oil and gas volumes from ExxonMobil-operated properties only, regardless of the company s net interest. In addition,  
       
   7   

Table of Contents  

  Index to Financial Statements  

Form EIA-23 information does not include gas plant liquids. The difference between the oil reserves and gas reserves reported on EIA-23 and those
reported in the registrant s Annual Report on Form 10-K for 2007 exceeds five percent.             3.    Average Sales Prices and Production Costs per Unit of Production             Reference is made to the  Results of Operations  part of the  Supplemental Information on Oil and Gas Exploration and Production
Activities  portion of the Financial Section of this report. Average sales prices have been calculated by using sales quantities from the Corporation s own production as the divisor. Average production costs have been computed by using net
production quantities for the divisor. The volumes of crude oil and natural gas liquids (NGL) production used for this computation are shown in the reserves table in the  Oil and Gas Reserves  part of the  Supplemental Information on
Oil and Gas Exploration and Production Activities  portion of the Financial Section of this report. The volumes of natural gas used in the calculation are the production volumes of natural gas available for sale and thus are different from
those shown in the reserves table in the  Oil and Gas Reserves  part of the  Supplemental Information on Oil and Gas Exploration and Production Activities  portion of the Financial Section of this report due to volumes consumed
or flared. Gas is converted to an oil-equivalent basis at six million cubic feet per one thousand barrels.             4.    Gross and Net Productive Wells          
          There were 16,286
gross and 13,573 net operated wells at year-end 2008 and 16,797 gross and 13,945 net operated wells at year-end 2007.             5.    Gross and Net Developed Acreage          
          Note: Separate
acreage data for oil and gas are not maintained because, in many instances, both are produced from the same acreage.         
   8   

Table of Contents  

  Index to Financial Statements  

    6.    Gross and Net Undeveloped Acreage          
                  ExxonMobil s investment in developed and undeveloped acreage is comprised of numerous concessions, blocks and leases. The terms and conditions under which the Corporation maintains
exploration and/or production rights to the acreage are property-specific, contractually defined and vary significantly from property to property. Work programs are designed to ensure that the exploration potential of any property is fully evaluated
before expiration. In some instances, the Corporation may elect to relinquish acreage in advance of the contractual expiration date if the evaluation process is complete and there is not a business basis for extension. In cases where additional time
may be required to fully evaluate acreage, the Corporation has generally been successful in obtaining extensions.             7.     Summary of Acreage Terms              UNITED STATES             Oil and gas leases have an exploration period ranging from one to ten years, and a production period that normally remains in effect until production
ceases. Under certain circumstances, a lease may be held beyond its exploration term even if production has not commenced. In some instances, a  fee interest  is acquired where both the surface and the underlying mineral interests are
owned outright.             CANADA / SOUTH AMERICA              Canada             Exploration permits are granted for varying periods of time with renewals possible. Exploration rights in onshore areas
acquired from Canadian provinces entitle the holder to obtain leases upon completing specified work. Production leases are held as long as there is production on the lease. The majority of Cold Lake leases were taken for an initial 21-year term in
1968-1969 and renewed for a second 21-year term in 1989-1990. The exploration acreage in eastern Canada and the block in the Beaufort Sea acquired in 2007 are currently held by work commitments of various amounts.             Argentina             The onshore concession terms in Argentina are up to four years for the
initial exploration period, up to three years for the second exploration period and up to two years for the third exploration period. A 50-percent relinquishment is required after each exploration period. An extension after the third exploration
period is possible for up to five years. The total production term is 25 years with a ten-year extension possible, once a field has been developed.         
   9   

Table of Contents  

  Index to Financial Statements  

          EUROPE              Germany             Exploration concessions are granted for an initial maximum period of five
years, with an unlimited number of extensions of up to three years each. Extensions are subject to specific, minimum work commitments. Production licenses are normally granted for 20 to 25 years with multiple possible extensions as long as there is
production on the license. In May 2007, ExxonMobil affiliates acquired four exploration licenses over 1.3 million acres in the Lower Saxony Basin. The exploration licenses are for a period of five years during which exploration work programs will be
carried out.             Netherlands             Under the Mining Law, effective January 1, 2003, exploration and production
licenses for both onshore and offshore areas are issued for a period as explicitly defined in the license. The term is based on the period of time necessary to perform the activities for which the license is issued. License conditions are stipulated
in the Mining Law.            Production rights granted prior to January
1, 2003, remain subject to their existing terms, and differ slightly for onshore and offshore areas. Onshore production licenses issued prior to 1988 were indefinite; from 1988 they were issued for a period as explicitly defined in the license,
ranging from 35 to 45 years. Offshore production licenses issued before 1976 were issued for a fixed period of 40 years; from 1976 they were again issued for a period as explicitly defined in the license, ranging from 15 to 40 years.             Norway             Licenses issued prior to 1972 were for an initial period of six years and an extension period of 40 years, with
relinquishment of at least one-fourth of the original area required at the end of the sixth year and another one-fourth at the end of the ninth year. Licenses issued between 1972 and 1997 were for an initial period of up to six years (with extension
of the initial period of one year at a time up to ten years after 1985), and an extension period of up to 30 years, with relinquishment of at least one-half of the original area required at the end of the initial period. Licenses issued after July
1, 1997, have an initial period of up to ten years and a normal extension period of up to 30 years or in special cases of up to 50 years, and with relinquishment of at least one-half of the original area required at the end of the initial period.
            United Kingdom             Acreage terms are fixed by the government and are periodically changed. For
example, many of the early licenses issued under the first four licensing rounds provided for an initial term of six years with relinquishment of at least one-half of the original area at the end of the initial term, subject to extension for a
further 40 years. ExxonMobil s licenses issued in 2005 as part of the 23rd licensing round have an initial term of four years with a second term extension of four years and a final term of 18 years. There is a mandatory relinquishment of
50-percent of the acreage after the initial term and of all acreage that is not covered by a development plan at the end of the second term.             AFRICA              Angola             Exploration and
production activities are governed by production sharing agreements with an initial exploration term of four years and an optional second phase of two to three years. The production period is for 25 years, and agreements generally provide for a
negotiated extension.         
   10   

Table of Contents  

  Index to Financial Statements  

    Cameroon          
  Exploration and production activities are governed by various agreements negotiated with the national oil company and the government of Cameroon.
Exploration permits are granted for terms from four to 16 years and are generally renewable for multiple periods up to four years each. Upon commercial discovery, mining concessions are issued for a period of 25 years with one 25-year extension.
            Chad             Exploration permits are issued for a period of five years, and are renewable
for one or two further five-year periods. The terms and conditions of the permits, including relinquishment obligations, are specified in a negotiated convention. The production term is for 30 years and may be extended at the discretion of the
government. In May 2007, Chad enacted a new Petroleum Code which would govern new acquisitions.             Equatorial Guinea             Exploration and production activities are governed by production sharing contracts negotiated with the State Ministry of Mines, Industry and Energy. The
exploration periods are for ten to 15 years with limited relinquishments in the absence of commercial discoveries. The production period for crude oil is 30 years while the production period for gas is 50 years. A new Hydrocarbons Law was enacted in
November 2006. Under the new law, the exploration terms for new production sharing contracts are four to five years with a maximum of two one-year extensions, unless the Ministry agrees otherwise.             Nigeria             Exploration and production activities in the deepwater offshore areas are typically governed by production sharing contracts
(PSCs) with the national oil company, the Nigerian National Petroleum Corporation (NNPC). NNPC holds the underlying Oil Prospecting License (OPL) and any resulting Oil Mining Lease (OML). The terms of the PSCs are generally 30 years, including a
ten-year exploration period (an initial exploration phase plus one or two optional periods) covered by an OPL. Upon commercial discovery, an OPL may be converted to an OML. Partial relinquishment is required under the PSC at the end of the ten-year
exploration period, and OMLs have a 20-year production period that may be extended.            Some exploration activities are carried out in deepwater by joint ventures with local companies holding interests in an OPL. OPLs in deepwater offshore areas are valid for ten years and are non-renewable, while in all
other areas the licenses are for five years and also are non-renewable. Demonstrating a commercial discovery is the basis for conversion of an OPL to an OML.            OMLs granted prior to the 1969 Petroleum Act (i.e., under the Mineral Oils Act 1914, repealed by the 1969 Petroleum Act) were for 30 years onshore and 40
years in offshore areas and are renewable upon 12 months  written notice, for further periods of 30 and 40 years, respectively. Operations under these pre-1969 OMLs are conducted under a joint venture agreement with NNPC rather than a PSC. In
2000, a Memorandum of Understanding (MOU) was executed defining commercial terms applicable to existing joint venture oil production. The MOU may be terminated on one calendar year s notice.            OMLs granted under the 1969 Petroleum Act, which include all deepwater OMLs,
have a maximum term of 20 years without distinction for onshore or offshore location and are renewable, upon 12 months  written notice, for another period of 20 years. OMLs not held by NNPC are also subject to a mandatory 50-percent
relinquishment after the first ten years of their duration.         
   11   

Table of Contents  

  Index to Financial Statements  

    ASIA PACIFIC / MIDDLE EAST              Australia             Exploration and production activities are conducted offshore and are governed by Federal legislation. Exploration permits are granted for an initial term
of six years with two possible five-year renewal periods. Retention leases may be granted for resources that are not commercially viable at the time of application, but are expected to become commercially viable within 15 years. These are granted
for periods of five years and renewals may be requested. Prior to July 1998, production licenses were granted initially for 21 years, with a further renewal of 21 years and thereafter  indefinitely , i.e., for the life of the field (if no
operations for the recovery of petroleum have been carried on for five years, the license may be terminated). Effective from July 1998, new production licenses are granted  indefinitely .             Indonesia             Exploration and production activities in Indonesia are generally governed by
cooperation contracts, usually in the form of a production sharing contract, negotiated with BPMIGAS, a government agency established in 2002 to manage upstream oil and gas activities. Formerly this activity was carried out by Pertamina, the
government owned oil company, which is now a competing limited liability company.             Japan             The Mining Law
provides for the granting of concessions that convey exploration and production rights. Exploration rights are granted for an initial two-year period, and may be extended for two two-year periods for gas and three two-year periods for oil.
Production rights have no fixed term and continue until abandonment so long as the rights holder is fulfilling its obligations.             Malaysia             Exploration and production activities are governed by seven production sharing contracts (PSCs) negotiated with the national oil company, three governing
exploration and production activities and four governing production activities only. The more recent PSCs governing exploration and production activities have an overall term of 24 to 38 years, depending on water depth, with possible extensions to
the exploration and/or development periods. The exploration period is five to seven years with the possibility of extensions, after which time areas with no commercial discoveries will be deemed relinquished. The development period is from four to
six years from commercial discovery, with the possibility of extensions under special circumstances. Areas from which commercial production has not started by the end of the development period will be deemed relinquished if no extension is granted.
All extensions are subject to the national oil company s prior written approval. The total production period is 15 to 25 years from first commercial lifting, not to exceed the overall term of the contract.            In 2008, the Company reached agreement with the national oil company for a
new PSC. Under the new PSC, from 2008 until March 31, 2012, the Company is entitled to undertake new development and production activities of areas, in oil fields under an existing PSC, subject to new minimum work and spending commitments. When
the existing PSC expires on March 31, 2012, the producing fields covered by the existing PSC, as well as those areas developed by the Company under the new PSC, all automatically become part of the new PSC, which has a 25-year duration from
April 2008.         
   12   

Table of Contents  

  Index to Financial Statements  

    Papua New Guinea        
     Exploration and production activities are governed by the Oil and Gas Act. Petroleum Prospecting licenses are granted for an initial term
of six years with a five-year extension possible (an additional extension of three years is possible in certain circumstances). Generally, a 50-percent relinquishment of the license area is required at the end of the initial six-year term, if
extended. Petroleum Development licenses are granted for an initial 25-year period. An extension of up to 20 years may be granted at the Minister s discretion. Petroleum Retention licenses may be granted for gas resources that are not
commercially viable at the time of application, but may become commercially viable within the maximum possible retention time of 15 years. Petroleum Retention licenses are granted for five-year terms, and may be extended, at the Minister s
discretion, twice for the maximum retention time of 15 years. Recent amendments of the Oil and Gas Act provide that extensions of Petroleum Retention licenses may be for periods of less than one year, renewable annually, if the Minister considers at
the time of extension that the resources could become commercially viable in less than five years.             Qatar             The State of Qatar grants gas production development project rights to develop and supply gas from the offshore North Field to permit the economic
development and production of gas reserves sufficient to satisfy the gas and LNG sales obligations of these projects.             Republic of Yemen             Existing production operations under the production sharing agreements (PSAs) have a development period extending 20 years from first commercial
declaration made in November 1985 for the Marib PSA and June 1995 for the Jannah PSA. The Government of Yemen awarded a five-year extension of the Marib PSA, but later repudiated the extension and expelled the concession holders. The concession
holders brought an action for arbitration over the Government s actions, but the arbitration panel in 2008 ruled in favor of the Government.             Thailand             The Petroleum Act of 1971 allows production under ExxonMobil s concession for 30 years with a ten-year extension at terms generally prevalent at the
time.             United Arab Emirates             Exploration and production activities for the major onshore oilfields in the
Emirate of Abu Dhabi are governed by a 75-year oil concession agreement executed in 1939 and subsequently amended through various agreements with the government of Abu Dhabi. An interest in the Upper Zakum field, a major offshore field, was acquired
effective as of January 1, 2006, for a term expiring March 9, 2026, on fiscal terms consistent with the Company s existing interests in Abu Dhabi.             RUSSIA/CASPIAN              Azerbaijan             The production sharing agreement (PSA) for the development of the Azeri-Chirag-Gunashli field is established for an initial period of 30 years starting
from the PSA execution date in 1994.            Other exploration and
production activities are governed by PSAs negotiated with the national oil company of Azerbaijan. The exploration period consists of three or four years with the possibility of a one to three-year extension. The production period, which includes
development, is for 25 years or 35 years with the possibility of one or two five-year extensions.         
   13   

Table of Contents  

  Index to Financial Statements  

    Kazakhstan             Onshore: Exploration and production activities are governed by the production license, exploration license and joint
venture agreements negotiated with the Republic of Kazakhstan. Existing production operations have a 40-year production period that commenced in 1993.            Offshore: Exploration and production activities are governed by a production sharing agreement negotiated with the Republic of Kazakhstan. The exploration
period was six years followed by separate appraisal periods for each discovery. The production period for each discovery, which includes development, is for 20 years from the date of declaration of commerciality with the possibility of two ten-year
extensions.             Russia             Terms for ExxonMobil s acreage are fixed by the production sharing
agreement (PSA) that became effective in 1996 between the Russian government and the Sakhalin-1 consortium, of which ExxonMobil is the operator. The term of the PSA is 20 years from the Declaration of Commerciality, which would be 2021. The term may
be extended thereafter in 10-year increments as specified in the PSA.         
   14   

Table of Contents  

  Index to Financial Statements  

    8.    Number of Net Productive and Dry Wells Drilled          
           9.    Present
Activities             A. Wells Drilling   

15   

Table of Contents  

  Index to Financial Statements  

   B. Review of Principal Ongoing Activities            During 2008, ExxonMobil s activities were conducted, either directly or
through affiliated companies, by ExxonMobil Exploration Company (for exploration), by ExxonMobil Development Company (for large development activities), by ExxonMobil Production Company (for producing and smaller development activities) and by
ExxonMobil Gas   Power Marketing Company (for gas marketing). During this same period, some of ExxonMobil s exploration, development, production and gas marketing activities were also conducted in Canada by the Resources Division of
Imperial Oil Limited, which is 69.6 percent owned by ExxonMobil.             UNITED
STATES             ExxonMobil s year-end 2008 acreage holdings
totaled 10.8 million net acres, of which 2.3 million net acres were offshore. ExxonMobil was active in areas onshore and offshore in the lower 48 states and in Alaska.       
     During 2008, 416.4 net exploration and development wells were completed in the inland lower 48 states and 2.0 net development wells were
completed offshore in the Pacific. Tight gas development continued in the Piceance Basin of Colorado. Participation in Alaska production and development continued and a total of 20.5 net development wells were drilled. On Alaska s North Slope,
activity continued on the Western Region Development (primarily the Orion field) with development drilling and engineering design for future facility expansions.            ExxonMobil s net acreage in the Gulf of Mexico at year-end 2008 was 2.1 million acres. A total of 3.5 net exploration
and development wells were completed during the year. Activity on the Thunder Horse project continued, with production from the deepwater semi-submersible development commencing in 2008. Work to rebuild and reinstall subsea equipment resulting from
subsea manifold failures continued.            Construction of the Golden
Pass LNG regasification terminal in Texas continued in 2008. The terminal will have the capacity to deliver up to two billion cubic feet of gas per day.             CANADA / SOUTH AMERICA              Canada             ExxonMobil s year-end 2008 acreage holdings totaled 8.0 million net acres, of which 3.9 million net acres were offshore. A total of 221.2 net
development wells were completed during the year.             Argentina
            ExxonMobil s net acreage totaled 0.2 million onshore
acres at year-end 2008, and there were 3.3 net development wells completed during the year.             Venezuela             ExxonMobil s acreage holdings and assets were expropriated in 2007. Refer to the relevant portion of  Note 15: Litigation and Other Contingencies  of the Financial Section of this report for additional information.
            EUROPE              Germany             A total of 3.1 million net onshore acres and 0.1 million net offshore acres were held by ExxonMobil at year-end 2008, with 3.5 net development and
exploration wells drilled during the year.         
   16   

Table of Contents  

  Index to Financial Statements  

    Italy             Construction of the Adriatic LNG regasification terminal continued in 2008. The terminal was moved from its construction site to its final location
offshore Italy for commissioning. The terminal will have the capacity to supply up to 775 million cubic feet of gas per day to the Italian gas market.             Netherlands             ExxonMobil s net interest in licenses totaled approximately 1.5 million acres at year-end 2008, of which 1.2 million acres were onshore. A total of
2.7 net exploration and development wells were completed during the year. Offshore, construction of the L09 project was completed. Onshore, the project to redevelop the previously abandoned Schoonebeek oil field commenced. In addition, the
multi-year project to renovate Groningen production clusters, install new compression to maintain capacity, and extend field life continued.             Norway             ExxonMobil s net interest in licenses at year-end 2008 totaled approximately 0.8 million acres, all offshore. ExxonMobil participated in 8.3 net
exploration and development well completions in 2008. Production was initiated at Volve and construction on the Tyrihans project continued.             United Kingdom             ExxonMobil s net interest in licenses at year-end 2008 totaled approximately 1.4 million acres, all offshore. A total of 1.2 net exploration and
development wells were completed during the year. The Starling and Caravel projects started up in 2008, while the St. Fergus gas processing facilities refurbishment project continued to make progress.            Construction of the South Hook LNG regasification terminal in Wales continued
in 2008. The terminal will have the capacity to deliver up to two billion cubic feet of gas per day into the natural gas grid.             AFRICA              Angola             ExxonMobil s year-end 2008 acreage holdings totaled 0.7 million net offshore acres and 10.5 net exploration and development wells were completed during the year. On Block 15, development drilling continued at Kizomba A and Kizomba B.
The Block s fourth major development, Kizomba C, began production from the Mondo and Saxi/Batuque fields in 2008. A block-wide 3D and 4D seismic acquisition program concluded during the year. On the non-operated Block 17, project work continued
on the Pazflor project in 2008 and development drilling continued at Rosa and Dalia. The Plutao-Saturno-Venus-Marte (PSVM) project on Block 31 (non-operated) was approved in 2008.             Cameroon             ExxonMobil s net acreage holdings totaled 0.1 million offshore acres.       
      Chad             ExxonMobil s net year-end 2008 acreage holdings consisted of 3.3 million onshore acres, with 22.8 net development wells completed during the year.
Work began on the Timbre field, with production expected in 2009.         
   17   

Table of Contents  

  Index to Financial Statements  

    Equatorial Guinea        
     ExxonMobil s acreage totaled 0.2 million net offshore acres at year-end 2008.             Nigeria             ExxonMobil s net acreage totaled 1.0 million offshore acres at year-end 2008, with 10.9 net exploration and development
wells completed during the year. The ExxonMobil-operated East Area Natural Gas Liquids II project started up in 2008. This project reduced flared gas and will recover high-value natural gas liquids from the gas stream. Work continued on the
deepwater Usan project in 2008. A 3D seismic acquisition program that will provide enhanced resolution of existing fields and target deeper formations progressed. Appraisal drilling continued at Bonga North, Erha North East and Bosi North Deep
fields.             ASIA PACIFIC / MIDDLE EAST              Australia             ExxonMobil s net year-end 2008 offshore acreage holdings totaled 2.4
million acres. During 2008, a total of 3.0 net development wells were drilled. Work continued on the Kipper gas project and the Turrum Phase 2 development project was approved in 2008.             Indonesia             At year-end 2008, ExxonMobil had 5.1 million net acres, 4.1 million acres offshore and 1.0 million acres onshore and 1.4 net exploration wells were
completed during the year. Project activities continued on the Banyu Urip development in the Cepu Contract area.             Japan             ExxonMobil s net offshore acreage was 36 thousand acres at year-end 2008.             Malaysia             ExxonMobil has interests in production sharing contracts covering 0.5 million net acres offshore Malaysia at year-end 2008. During the year, a total of
9.8 net development wells were completed. The Tapis F and Jerneh B gas platforms started up in 2008.             Papua New Guinea             A total of 0.4 million net onshore acres were held by ExxonMobil at year-end 2008, with 0.9 net exploration and development wells completed during the
year.             Qatar             Production and development activities continued on natural gas projects in
Qatar. Liquefied natural gas (LNG) operating companies include:            Qatar Liquefied Gas Company Limited   (QG I)      Qatar Liquefied Gas Company Limited (II)   (QG II)      Ras Laffan Liquefied Natural Gas Company Limited   (RL I)      Ras Laffan Liquefied Natural Gas Company Limited (II)   (RL II)      Ras Laffan Liquefied Natural Gas
Company Limited (3)   (RL 3)         
   18   

Table of Contents  

  Index to Financial Statements  

   In addition, ExxonMobil s Al Khaleej Gas (AKG) Phase 1 project supplied pipeline gas to domestic
industrial customers. The AKG facilities have sales gas capacity of up to 750 mcfd (millions of cubic feet per day) and produce associated condensate and LPG (Liquid Petroleum Gas). The AKG Phase 2 project is planned to add sales gas capacity of up
to 1,250 mcfd, while recovering associated condensate and LPG.            At the end of 2008, 93 (gross) wells supplied natural gas to currently-producing LNG and pipeline gas sales facilities and drilling is underway to complete wells that will supply the new QG II, RL 3 and AKG 2 projects. At year-end 2008,
ExxonMobil had 0.1 million net offshore acres. During 2008, 10.3 net exploration and development wells were completed.            Qatar LNG capacity volumes (gross) at year-end 2008 included 9.7 MTA (millions of metric tons per annum) in QG trains 1-3 and a combined 20.7 MTA in RL I
trains 1-2 and RL II trains 3-5. In November 2008 commissioning activities commenced at QG II train 4. Construction of QG II trains 4-5 will add planned capacity of 15.6 MTA when complete. In addition, construction of RL 3 trains 6-7 will add
planned capacity of 15.6 MTA when complete.            The conversion
factor to translate Qatar LNG volumes (millions of metric tons   MT) into gas volumes (billions of cubic feet   BCF) is dependent on the gas quality and the quality of the LNG produced. The conversion factors are approximately 46 BCF/MT
for QG I trains 1-3, RL I trains 1-2, and RL II train 3, and approximately 49 BCF/MT for QG II trains 4-5, RL II trains 4-5, and RL 3 trains 6-7.             Republic of Yemen             ExxonMobil s net acreage in the Republic of Yemen production sharing areas totaled 10 thousand acres onshore at year-end.             Thailand             ExxonMobil s net onshore acreage in Thailand concessions totaled 21
thousand acres at year-end 2008.             United Arab Emirates  
           ExxonMobil s net acreage in the Abu Dhabi oil
concessions was 0.6 million acres at year-end 2008, of which 0.4 million acres were onshore and 0.2 million acres offshore. During the year, a total of 5.7 net exploration and development wells were completed. During 2008, work progressed on
multiple field development projects, both onshore and offshore, to sustain and increase oil production capacity.             RUSSIA/CASPIAN              Azerbaijan             At year-end 2008, ExxonMobil s net acreage, located in the Caspian Sea offshore of Azerbaijan, totaled 0.1 million acres. At the
Azeri-Chirag-Gunashli field, 1.2 net development wells were completed and production ramp-up continued. The Phase 3 Deep Water Gunashli project started up in 2008.             Kazakhstan             ExxonMobil s net acreage totaled 0.1 million acres onshore and 0.2 million acres offshore at year-end 2008, with 0.7 net development wells completed
during 2008. The initial phase of the Tengiz expansion started up in 2007, followed by the full expansion in 2008. Construction of the initial phase of the Kashagan field continued during 2008.         
   19   

Table of Contents  

  Index to Financial Statements  

    Russia          
  ExxonMobil s net acreage holdings at year-end 2008 were 0.1 million acres, all offshore. A total of 2.7 net development wells were completed in
the Chayvo field during the year. Phase 1 facilities include an offshore platform, onshore well site (from which extended reach horizontal drilling was completed in 2008), an onshore processing plant, an oil pipeline from Sakhalin Island to the
Russian mainland, a mainland crude storage and loading terminal and an offshore loading buoy for loading shipments of oil by tanker.             WORLDWIDE EXPLORATION             At year-end 2008, exploration activities were underway in several areas in which ExxonMobil has no established production operations and thus are not
included above. A total of 46 million net acres were held at year-end 2008. No net exploration wells were completed during the year in these countries.              Information with regard to mining activities follows :               Syncrude Operations              Syncrude is a joint-venture established to recover shallow deposits of oil sands using open-pit mining methods, to extract the crude bitumen, and to
produce a high-quality, light (32 degree API), sweet, synthetic crude oil. The Syncrude operation, located near Fort McMurray, Alberta, Canada, mines a portion of the Athabasca oil sands deposit. The location is readily accessible by public road.
The produced synthetic crude oil is shipped from the Syncrude site to Edmonton, Alberta by Alberta Oil Sands Pipeline Ltd. Since start-up in 1978, Syncrude has produced about 1.9 billion barrels of synthetic crude oil. Imperial Oil Limited is the
owner of a 25 percent interest in the joint-venture. Exxon Mobil Corporation has a 69.6 percent interest in Imperial Oil Limited.             Operating License and Leases             Syncrude has an operating license issued by the Province of Alberta which is effective until 2035. This license permits Syncrude to mine oil sands and
produce synthetic crude oil from approved development areas on oil sands leases. Syncrude holds eight oil sands leases covering approximately 250,000 acres in the Athabasca oil sands deposit which were issued by the Province of Alberta. The leases
are automatically renewable as long as oil sands operations are ongoing or the leases are part of an approved development plan. Syncrude leases 10, 12, 17, 22 and 34 (containing proven reserves) and leases 29, 30 and 31 (containing no proven
reserves) are included within a development plan approved by the Province of Alberta. There were no known previous commercial operations on these leases prior to the start-up of operations in 1978.             Operations, Plant and Equipment             Operations at Syncrude involve three main processes: open pit mining,
extraction of crude bitumen and upgrading of crude bitumen into synthetic crude oil. The Base mine (located on lease 17) was depleted and ceased production in 2007. In the North mine (leases 17 and 22) and in the Aurora mine (leases 10, 12 and 34),
truck, shovel and hydrotransport systems are used. Production from the Aurora mine commenced in 2000. The extraction facilities, which separate crude bitumen from sand, are capable of processing approximately 830,000 tons of oil sands per day,
producing 150 million barrels of crude bitumen per year. This represents recovery capability of about 93 percent of the crude bitumen contained in the mined oil sands.            Crude bitumen extracted from oil sands is refined to a marketable hydrocarbon product through a combination of carbon
removal in three large, high-temperature, fluid-coking vessels and by hydrogen  
       
   20   

Table of Contents  

  Index to Financial Statements  

addition in high-temperature, high-pressure, hydrocracking vessels. These processes remove carbon and sulfur and reformulate the crude into a low viscosity,
low sulfur, high-quality synthetic crude oil product. In 2008, this upgrading process yielded 0.859 barrels of synthetic crude oil per barrel of crude bitumen. In 2008 about 39 percent of the synthetic crude oil was processed by Edmonton area
refineries and the remaining 61 percent was pipelined to refineries in eastern Canada and exported, primarily to the United States. Electricity is provided to Syncrude by a 270 megawatt electricity generating plant and a 160 megawatt electricity
generating plant, both located at Syncrude. The generating plants are owned by the Syncrude participants. Recycled water is the primary water source, and incremental raw water is drawn, under license, from the Athabasca River. Imperial Oil
Limited s 25 percent share of net investment in plant, property and equipment, including surface mining facilities, transportation equipment and upgrading facilities was about $2.8 billion at year-end 2008.             Synthetic Crude Oil Reserves             The crude bitumen is contained within the unconsolidated sands of the
McMurray Formation. Ore bodies are buried beneath 50 to 150 feet of overburden, have bitumen grades ranging from 4 to 14 weight percent and ore thickness of 115 to 180 feet. Estimates of synthetic crude oil reserves are based on detailed geological
and engineering assessments of in-place crude bitumen volume, the mining plan, extraction recovery and upgrading yield factors, installed plant operating capacity and operating approval limits. The in-place volume, depth and grade are established
through extensive and closely spaced core drilling. In active mining areas, the approximate well spacing is 400 feet (150 wells per section) and in future mining areas, the well spacing is approximately 1,150 feet (20 wells per section). Proven
reserves are within the operating North and Aurora mines. In accordance with the approved mining plan, there are extractable oil sands in the North and Aurora mines, with average bitumen grades of 10.6 and 11.2 weight percent, respectively. After
deducting royalties payable to the Province of Alberta, Imperial Oil Limited estimates that its 25 percent net share of proven reserves at year-end 2008 was equivalent to 734 million barrels of synthetic crude oil. Imperial s reserve
assessment uses a 6 percent and 7 percent bitumen grade cut-off for the North mine and Aurora mine respectively, a 90 percent overall extraction recovery, a 97 percent mining dilution factor and an 88 percent upgrading yield.            In 2001, the Syncrude owners endorsed a further development of the Syncrude
resource in the area and expansion of the upgrading facilities. The Syncrude Aurora 2 and Upgrader Expansion 1 project added a remote mining train and expanded the central processing and upgrading plant. This increased upgrading capacity came on
stream in 2006 and increased production capacity to 355 thousand barrels of synthetic crude oil per day (gross). Additional mining trains in the North mine and Aurora mine were also completed in 2005. There are no approved plans for major
future expansion projects.            On May 1, 2007, the company
implemented a management services agreement under which Syncrude will be provided with operational, technical and business management services from Imperial Oil Limited and Exxon Mobil Corporation. The agreement has an initial term of 10 years and
may be terminated with at least two years prior written notice.            In November 2008, Imperial Oil Limited, along with the other Syncrude joint-venture owners, signed an agreement with the Government of Alberta to amend the existing Syncrude Crown Agreement. Under the amended agreement, beginning January 1,
2010, Syncrude will begin transitioning to the new oil sands royalty regime by paying additional royalties, the exact amount of which will depend on production levels from 2010 to 2015. Also, beginning January 1, 2009, Syncrude s royalty will
be based on bitumen value with upgrading costs and revenues excluded from the calculation.         
   21   

Table of Contents  

  Index to Financial Statements  

    ExxonMobil Net Proven Syncrude Reserves   (1)              

(1)  
     
  Net reserves are the share of reserves based on an estimate of average royalty rates over the life of the project and incorporate amendments to the Syncrude Crown Agreement.
              Syncrude Operating Statistics (total
operation)          

(1)  
     
  Includes pre-stripping of mine areas and reclamation volumes.     

(2)  
     
  Crude bitumen production is equal to crude bitumen in mined oil sands multiplied by the average extraction recovery and the appropriate conversion factor.     

(3)  
     
  Reflects ExxonMobil s 25 percent interest in production less applicable royalties payable to the Province of Alberta.                Kearl Project              Kearl is a joint venture established to recover shallow deposits of oil
sands using open-pit mining methods to extract the crude bitumen. The Kearl project is located approximately 40 miles north of Fort McMurray, Alberta. The location is currently accessible by an existing road. Imperial Oil Limited holds a 70.96
percent participating interest in the joint venture and ExxonMobil Canada Properties holds the other 29.04 percent. Exxon Mobil Corporation has a 69.6 percent interest in Imperial Oil Limited and a 100 percent interest in ExxonMobil Canada
Properties.            Kearl will be developed in three phases. Bitumen
will be extracted from oil sands produced from open-pit mining operations, and processed through a bitumen extraction and froth treatment plant. The product, a heavy oil blend of bitumen and diluent, will be shipped via pipelines for distribution to
North American markets. Diluent is natural gas condensate or other light hydrocarbons added to the crude bitumen to facilitate transportation to market by pipeline.             Operating License and Leases             The Kearl project received approvals from the Province of Alberta in 2007 and the Government of Canada in 2008. The Province
of Alberta issued an operating and construction license in 2008, which permits the project to mine oil sands and produce bitumen from approved development areas on oil sands leases. Kearl is comprised of six oil sands leases covering about 48,000
acres in the Athabasca oil  
       
   22   

Table of Contents  

  Index to Financial Statements  

sands deposit. The leases, which are issued by the Province of Alberta, are automatically renewable as long as the oil sands operations are ongoing or the
leases are part of an approved development plan. The leases involved in the first phase of the project are 6, 87 and 88A (which contain proven reserves) and 31A, 36 and 88B (which do not currently contain proven reserves). There were no known
previous commercial operations on these leases.             Operations,
Plant and Equipment             Production from the first phase is
expected to average approximately 110,000 barrels of bitumen a day, before royalties. About $500 million has been spent on the first phase. Activities in 2008 focused on engineering work to define the project design and execution plan. Other
activities in 2008 also included site access road construction, site preparation and earthworks. Significant progress has also been made on transportation system agreements.            Kearl will be subject to the Alberta generic oil sands royalty regime, which was modified in 2007 and which will take effect
in 2009. Royalty rates will be based upon a sliding scale, determined by the price of crude oil.            Operations at Kearl will involve three main processes: open-pit mining, extraction of crude bitumen and diluent blending. The open-pit mining will utilize
truck, shovel and hydrotransport systems. The extraction separates crude bitumen from sand through a froth processing plant. Electricity will be provided initially through the Alberta grid. Recycled water will be the primary water source, and
incremental raw water will be drawn, under license, from the Athabasca River.             Proven Reserves             Bitumen deposits at Kearl are found throughout sandstones within the Lower, Middle and Upper McMurray members, concentrated primarily within the Middle and Upper McMurray members. The oil sands occur over depths ranging from approximately
30 feet to as much as 450 feet below surface. The oil sands are about 130 feet in net thickness, but can be as thick as 230 feet. Mined bitumen reserve estimates are based upon detailed geological and engineering assessments of in-place crude
bitumen volumes, the mining plan, demonstrated extraction recovery factors, planned operating capacity and operating approval limits. The in-place volume, depth and grade of the first phase were established through extensive and closely spaced core
drilling with spacing of approximately 1,400 feet (14 wells per section). The determination of reserves uses a seven percent bitumen grade cut-off by weight, a 77 percent overall extraction recovery (paraffinic froth treatment process) and a 95
percent mining dilution factor.             ExxonMobil Net Proven Kearl Reserves   (1)              

(1)  
     
  Net reserves are the share of reserves based on an estimate of average royalty rates over the life of the project and incorporate the Alberta oil sands royalty regime.
               Information with regard to the Downstream segment
follows :             ExxonMobil s Downstream segment
manufactures and sells petroleum products. The refining and supply operations encompass a global network of manufacturing plants, transportation systems, and distribution centers that provide a range of fuels, lubricants and other products and
feedstocks to our customers around the world.         
   23   

Table of Contents  

  Index to Financial Statements  

    Refining Capacity At Year-End 2008   (1)              

(1)  
     
  Capacity data is based on 100 percent of rated refinery process unit stream-day capacities under normal operating conditions, less the impact of shutdowns for regular repair
and maintenance activities, averaged over an extended period of time.           
   24   

Table of Contents  

  Index to Financial Statements  

(2)  
     
  Thousands of barrels per day (KBD). ExxonMobil share reflects 100 percent of atmospheric distillation capacity in operations of ExxonMobil and majority-owned subsidiaries. For
companies owned 50 percent or less, ExxonMobil share is the greater of ExxonMobil s equity interest or that portion of distillation capacity normally available to ExxonMobil.     

(3)  
     
  Operated by majority-owned subsidiaries.              The marketing operations sell products and services throughout the world. Our  Exxon, Esso, Mobil  and  On the Run  brands serve customers at
nearly 29,000 retail service stations.             Retail Sites Year-End
2008          
       
   25   

Table of Contents  

  Index to Financial Statements  

     Information with regard to the Chemical segment follows :             ExxonMobil s Chemical segment manufactures and sells petrochemicals.
The Chemical business supplies olefins, polyolefins, aromatics, and a wide variety of other petrochemicals.             Chemical Complex Capacity at Year-End 2008   (1) 
     (2)              

(1)  
     
  Capacity for ethylene, polyethylene, polypropylene and paraxylene in millions of metric tons.     

(2)  
     
  Capacity reflects 100 percent for operations of ExxonMobil and majority-owned subsidiaries. For companies owned 50 percent or less, capacity is ExxonMobil s interest.

(3)  
     
  Net ExxonMobil ethylene capacity is 35%. Net ExxonMobil polyethylene capacity is 100%.         
        Item 3.       Legal Proceedings.                On November 21, 2008, the Louisiana Department of Environmental Quality
(LDEQ) issued a Consolidated Compliance Order and Notice of Potential Penalty to the Corporation s refinery located in Baton Rouge, Louisiana. The Order requires the refinery to take corrective actions related to self-disclosed emissions
exceedances involving the refinery s wet gas scrubber and wastewater treatment. Although penalties have not yet been assessed, they are likely to exceed $100,000. The LDEQ has also issued interim permit limits for these sources until the
required corrective action steps can be completed during an upcoming scheduled turnaround.         
   26   

Table of Contents  

  Index to Financial Statements  

   Regarding a previously reported matter, the Corporation and Chalmette Refining, LLC have agreed to pay
stipulated penalties demanded by the United States Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) for alleged noncompliance under their respective 2005 and 2006 consent decrees relating to EPA s New Source Review Enforcement Initiative. The EPA issued
its demand for stipulated penalties to Chalmette Refining, LLC ($273,500) on October 17, 2008, and to the Corporation ($6,064,500) on December 17, 2008. Most of the penalties are associated with alleged noncompliance with New Source Performance
Standards Subpart J. Chalmette Refining, LLC paid its penalty in November, 2008, and the Corporation paid its penalty in February, 2009.            Regarding a previously reported matter, on December 23, 2008, the office of the United States Attorney for the District of Massachusetts filed a
misdemeanor criminal information alleging that ExxonMobil Pipeline Company violated 33 U.S.C. Sections 1319(c)(1) and 1321(b)(3) of the Clean Water Act resulting from a spill that occurred on or about January 9-10, 2006, on the Island End River near
the Corporation s Everett Terminal facility in Everett, Massachusetts. A plea agreement intended to resolve the case was also filed with the Federal District Court on that same date. The plea agreement requires that ExxonMobil Pipeline Company
plead guilty to a misdemeanor violation 33 U.S.C. Section 1319(c)(1) of the Clean Water Act and agree to the following: (1) a term of probation of three years; (2) fund and implement an environmental compliance plan for the three year probationary
period; (3) pay a fine of $359,018 and a special assessment of $125 (4) pay $5,640,982 in community service payments to the North American Wetlands Conservation Act Fund; and (5) pay $179,509 for spill-related cleanup costs. A hearing was held by
the court on January 22, 2009, to review the plea agreement. The court took the matter under consideration, with sentencing to occur in the future.            Refer to the relevant portions of  Note 15: Litigation and Other Contingencies  of the Financial Section of this report for additional
information on legal proceedings.               Item
4.       Submission of Matters to a Vote of Security Holders.                None.                
   27   

Table of Contents  

  Index to Financial Statements  

      Executive Officers of the Registrant  [pursuant to Instruction 3 to Regulation S-K,
Item 401(b)].            
 
         For at least the
past five years, Messrs. Cramer, Humphreys, LaSala, Matthews, Mulva and Tillerson have been employed as executives of the registrant. Mr. Tillerson was a Senior Vice President and then President, a title he continues to hold, before
becoming Chairman of the Board. Mr. Albers was President of ExxonMobil Development Company before becoming Senior Vice President. Mr. Dolan was President of ExxonMobil Chemical Company before becoming Senior Vice President. Mr. Humphreys
was Vice President and Controller and then Vice President and Treasurer before becoming Senior Vice President and Treasurer. Mr. Colton was Assistant Treasurer before becoming Vice President Strategic Planning. Mr. LaSala was Associate General
Tax Counsel before becoming Vice President and General Tax Counsel. Mr. Mulva was Vice President Investor Relations and Secretary before becoming Vice President and Controller. Mr. Rosenthal was Assistant Controller before becoming Vice
President Investor Relations and Secretary.            The following
executive officers of the registrant have also served as executives of the subsidiaries, affiliates or divisions of the registrant shown opposite their names during the five years preceding December 31, 2008.          

Esso Exploration and Production Chad Inc.   
      
  Duffin   
 
    Esso UK Limited   
      
  Swiger   
 
    ExxonMobil Chemical Company   
      
  Dolan, Glass, Jr. and Pryor   
 
    ExxonMobil Development Company   
      
  Albers and Duffin    
 
    ExxonMobil Exploration Company   
      
  Cejka   
 
    ExxonMobil Fuels Marketing Company   
      
  Cramer   
 
    ExxonMobil Gas   Power Marketing Company   
      
  Colton and Swiger   
 
    ExxonMobil Lubricants   Petroleum Specialties Company   
      
  Kelly   
 
    ExxonMobil Production Company   
      
  Kruger, Duffin, Rosenthal and Swiger   
 
    ExxonMobil Refining   Supply Company   
      
  Dolan, Glass, Jr. and Pryor    
 
         Officers are
generally elected by the Board of Directors at its meeting on the day of each annual election of directors, with each such officer serving until a successor has been elected and qualified.         
   28   

Table of Contents  

  Index to Financial Statements  

    PART II          

Item 5.       
    Market for Registrant s Common Equity, Related Stockholder Matters and Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities.                  Reference is made to the  Quarterly Information  portion of the
Financial Section of this report.         
          Note 1 On August
1, 2000, the Corporation announced its intention to resume purchases of shares of its common stock for the treasury both to offset shares issued in conjunction with company benefit plans and programs and to gradually reduce the number of shares
outstanding. The announcement did not specify an amount or expiration date. The Corporation has continued to purchase shares since this announcement and to report purchased volumes in its quarterly earnings releases. In its most recent earnings
release dated January 30, 2009, the Corporation stated that share purchases to reduce shares outstanding are anticipated to equal $7.0 billion through the first quarter of 2009. Purchases may be made in both the open market and through negotiated
transactions, and purchases may be increased, decreased or discontinued at any time without prior notice.         
   29   

Table of Contents  

  Index to Financial Statements  

      Item 6.       Selected Financial Data.       

Item 7.       Management s Discussion and Analysis of
Financial Condition and Results of Operations.              Reference is made to the section entitled  Management s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations  in the Financial Section of this report.               Item 7A.       Quantitative and
Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk.                Reference is made to the section entitled  Market Risks, Inflation and Other Uncertainties , excluding the part entitled  Inflation and Other Uncertainties,  in the Financial Section of this report. All statements other
than historical information incorporated in this Item 7A are forward-looking statements. The actual impact of future market changes could differ materially due to, among other things, factors discussed in this report.               Item 8.       Financial Statements
and Supplementary Data.                Reference is made to
the following in the Financial Section of this report:         

Consolidated financial statements, together with the report thereon of PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP dated February 27, 2009, beginning with the section entitled
 Report of Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm  and continuing through  Note 18: Income, Sales-Based and Other Taxes       

Quarterly Information  (unaudited);      

Supplemental Information on Oil and Gas Exploration and Production Activities  (unaudited); and      

Frequently Used Terms  (unaudited).               Financial Statement Schedules have been omitted because they are not applicable or the required information is shown in the consolidated financial
statements or notes thereto.         
   30   

Table of Contents  

  Index to Financial Statements  

      Item  9.
       Changes in and Disagreements With Accountants on Accounting and Financial Disclosure.                      
               None.               Item  9A.       Controls
and Procedures   .              Management s Evaluation of Disclosure
Controls and Procedures             As indicated in the
certifications in Exhibit 31 of this report, the Corporation s chief executive officer, principal financial officer and principal accounting officer have evaluated the Corporation s disclosure controls and procedures as of December 31,
2008. Based on that evaluation, these officers have concluded that the Corporation s disclosure controls and procedures are effective in ensuring that information required to be disclosed by the Corporation in the reports that it files or
submits under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, is accumulated and communicated to them in a manner that allows for timely decisions regarding required disclosures and are effective in ensuring that such information is recorded,
processed, summarized and reported within the time periods specified in the Securities and Exchange Commission s rules and forms.             Management s Report on Internal Control Over Financial Reporting             Management, including the Corporation s chief executive officer, principal financial officer and principal accounting officer, is responsible for
establishing and maintaining adequate internal control over the Corporation s financial reporting. Management conducted an evaluation of the effectiveness of internal control over financial reporting based on criteria established in Internal
Control - Integrated Framework issued by the Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of the Treadway Commission. Based on this evaluation, management concluded that Exxon Mobil Corporation s internal control over financial reporting was effective
as of December 31, 2008.            PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP, an
independent registered public accounting firm, audited the effectiveness of the Corporation s internal control over financial reporting as of December 31, 2008, as stated in their report included in the Financial Section of this report.
            Changes in Internal Control Over Financial Reporting             There were no changes during the Corporation s last fiscal quarter that
materially affected, or are reasonably likely to materially affect, the Corporation s internal control over financial reporting.               Item  9B.       Other Information   .             None.             PART III                Item 10.       Directors, Executive Officers and Corporate Governance.                Incorporated by reference to the following from the registrant s
definitive proxy statement for the 2009 annual meeting of shareholders (the  2009 Proxy Statement ):         

The section entitled  Election of Directors       

The portion entitled  Section 16(a) Beneficial Ownership Reporting Compliance  of the section entitled  Director and Executive Officer Stock
Ownership       

The portion entitled  Code of Ethics and Business Conduct  of the section entitled  Corporate Governance  and      

The  Audit Committee  portion and the membership table of the portion entitled  Board Meetings and Committees; Annual Meeting Attendance  of the
section entitled  Corporate Governance .            
   31   

Table of Contents  

  Index to Financial Statements  

      Item 11.       Executive Compensation.       
        Incorporated by reference to the sections entitled  Director
Compensation,   Compensation Committee Report,   Compensation Discussion and Analysis  and  Executive Compensation Tables  of the registrant s 2009 Proxy Statement.               Item
12.       Security Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owners and Management and Related Stockholder Matters.                The information required under Item 403 of Regulation S-K is incorporated by reference to the section entitled  Director and Executive Officer Stock
Ownership  of the registrant s 2009 Proxy Statement.             Equity Compensation Plan Information    

(1)  
     
  The exercise price of each option reflected in this table is equal to the fair market value of the Company s common stock on the date the option was granted. The
weighted-average price reflects four prior option grants that are still outstanding.           

(3)  
     
  Does not include options that ExxonMobil assumed in the 1999 merger with Mobil Corporation. At year-end 2008, the number of securities to be issued upon exercise of outstanding
options under Mobil Corporation plans was 1,823,135, and the weighted-average exercise price of such options $31.70. No additional awards may be made under those plans.           

(5)  
     
  Under the 2004 Non-Employee Director Restricted Stock Plan approved by shareholders in May 2004, and the related standing resolution adopted by the Board, each non-employee director
automatically receives 8,000 shares of restricted stock when first elected to the Board and, if the director remains in office, an additional 2,500 restricted shares each following year. While on the Board, each non-employee director receives the
same cash dividends on restricted shares as a holder of regular common stock, but the director is not allowed to sell the shares. The restricted shares may be forfeited if the director leaves the Board early.           
   32   

Table of Contents  

  Index to Financial Statements  

      Item 13.       Certain Relationships and Related Transactions,
and Director Independence.                Information
provided in response to this Item 13 is incorporated by reference to the portions entitled  Related Person Transactions and Procedures  and  Director Independence  of the section entitled  Corporate Governance  in the
registrant s 2009 Proxy Statement.               Item
14.       Principal Accounting Fees and Services   .             Incorporated by reference to the section entitled  Ratification of Independent Auditors  and the portion entitled  Audit Committee  of the section entitled  Corporate Governance  of the
registrant s 2009 Proxy Statement.             PART IV
               Item
15.       Exhibits, Financial Statement Schedules.             

(a)  
  (1) and (2) Financial Statements:        See
Table of Contents of the Financial Section of this report.         

(a)  
  (3) Exhibits:        See Index to Exhibits of
this report.         
   33   

Table of Contents  

  Index to Financial Statements  

                            [THIS PAGE INTENTIONALLY LEFT BLANK]  
                                
   34   

Table of Contents  

  Index to Financial Statements  

      FINANCIAL SECTION        TABLE OF CONTENTS        

Business Profile    
      
  36   
 
     Financial Summary    
      
  37   
 
     Frequently Used Terms    
      
  38   
 
     Quarterly Information    
      
  40   
 
     Management s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations    

Functional Earnings    
      
  41   
 
     Forward-Looking Statements    
      
  42   
 
     Overview    
      
  42   
 
     Business Environment and Risk Assessment    
      
  42   
 
     Review of 2008 and 2007 Results    
      
  44   
 
     Liquidity and Capital Resources    
      
  46   
 
     Capital and Exploration Expenditures    
      
  49   
 
     Taxes    
      
  50   
 
     Environmental Matters    
      
  50   
 
     Market Risks, Inflation and Other Uncertainties    
      
  50   
 
     Recently Issued Statements of Financial Accounting Standards    
      
  52   
 
     Critical Accounting Policies    
      
  52   
 
     Management s Report on Internal Control Over Financial Reporting    
      
  56   
 
     Report of Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm    
      
  56   
 
     Consolidated Financial Statements     

Statement of Income    
      
  58   
 
     Balance Sheet    
      
  59   
 
     Statement of Shareholders  Equity    
      
  60   
 
     Statement of Cash Flows    
      
  61   
 
     Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements    

1. Summary of Accounting Policies    
      
  62   
 
     2. Accounting Change for Fair Value Measurements    
      
  64   
 
     3. Miscellaneous Financial Information    
      
  64   
 
     4. Cash Flow Information    
      
  64   
 
     5. Additional Working Capital Information    
      
  64   
 
     6. Equity Company Information    
      
  65   
 
     7. Investments, Advances and Long-Term Receivables    
      
  66   
 
     8. Property, Plant and Equipment and Asset Retirement Obligations    
      
  66   
 
     9. Accounting for Suspended Exploratory Well Costs    
      
  67   
 
     10. Leased Facilities    
      
  69   
 
     11. Earnings Per Share    
      
  69   
 
     12. Financial Instruments and Derivatives    
      
  70   
 
     13. Long-Term Debt    
      
  70   
 
     14. Incentive Program    
      
  75   
 
     15. Litigation and Other Contingencies    
      
  77   
 
     16. Pension and Other Postretirement Benefits    
      
  79   
 
     17. Disclosures about Segments and Related Information    
      
  83   
 
     18. Income, Sales-Based and Other Taxes    
      
  85   
 
     Supplemental Information on Oil and Gas Exploration and Production Activities    
      
  87   
 
     Operating Summary    
      
  97   
       
   35   

Table of Contents  

  Index to Financial Statements  

      BUSINESS PROFILE        
     See Frequently Used Terms for a definition and calculation of capital employed and return on average capital
employed.        

(1)   
   Gas converted to oil-equivalent at 6 million cubic feet = 1 thousand barrels.            
   36   

Table of Contents  

  Index to Financial Statements  

      FINANCIAL SUMMARY        

(2)   
   Sales and other operating revenue includes $30,810 million for 2005 and $25,289 million for 2004 for purchases/sales contracts with the same counterparty. Associated costs were
included in Crude oil and product purchases. Effective January 1, 2006, these purchases/sales were recorded on a net basis with no resulting impact on net income.      

(3)   
   Debt net of cash, excluding restricted cash.      

(4)   
   Regular employees are defined as active executive, management, professional, technical and wage employees who work full time or part time for the Corporation and are covered by
the Corporation s benefit plans and programs.      

(5)   
   CORS employees are employees of company-operated retail sites.            
   37   

Table of Contents  

  Index to Financial Statements  

      FREQUENTLY USED TERMS       Listed below are definitions of several of ExxonMobil s key business and financial performance measures. These definitions are provided to facilitate understanding of the terms and their calculation.   
   CASH FLOW FROM OPERATIONS AND ASSET SALES       Cash flow from
operations and asset sales is the sum of the net cash provided by operating activities and proceeds from sales of subsidiaries, investments and property, plant and equipment from the Consolidated Statement of Cash Flows. This cash flow reflects the
total sources of cash from both operating the Corporation s assets and from the divesting of assets. The Corporation employs a long-standing and regular disciplined review process to ensure that all assets are contributing to the
Corporation s strategic objectives. Assets are divested when they are no longer meeting these objectives or are worth considerably more to others. Because of the regular nature of this activity, we believe it is useful for investors to consider
sales proceeds together with cash provided by operating activities when evaluating cash available for investment in the business and financing activities, including shareholder distributions.       
     CAPITAL EMPLOYED       Capital employed is a measure of net investment. When viewed from the perspective of how the capital is used by the businesses, it includes ExxonMobil s net share of property, plant and equipment and other assets less liabilities,
excluding both short-term and long-term debt. When viewed from the perspective of the sources of capital employed in total for the Corporation, it includes ExxonMobil s share of total debt and shareholders  equity. Both of these views
include ExxonMobil s share of amounts applicable to equity companies, which the Corporation believes should be included to provide a more comprehensive measure of capital employed.       
       
   38   

Table of Contents  

  Index to Financial Statements  

    RETURN ON AVERAGE CAPITAL EMPLOYED       Return on average capital employed (ROCE) is a performance measure ratio. From the perspective of the business segments, ROCE is annual business segment earnings divided by average business segment capital employed
(average of beginning and end-of-year amounts). These segment earnings include ExxonMobil s share of segment earnings of equity companies, consistent with our capital employed definition, and exclude the cost of financing. The
Corporation s total ROCE is net income excluding the after-tax cost of financing, divided by total corporate average capital employed. The Corporation has consistently applied its ROCE definition for many years and views it as the best measure
of historical capital productivity in our capital-intensive, long-term industry, both to evaluate management s performance and to demonstrate to shareholders that capital has been used wisely over the long term. Additional measures, which are
more cash flow-based, are used to make investment decisions.       
       
   39   

Table of Contents  

  Index to Financial Statements  

      QUARTERLY INFORMATION        

(1)   
   Gas converted to oil-equivalent at 6 million cubic feet = 1 thousand barrels.      

(2)   
   Includes amounts for sales-based taxes.      

(3)   
   Gross profit equals sales and other operating revenue less estimated costs associated with products sold.      

(4)   
   Computed using the average number of shares outstanding during each period. The sum of the four quarters may not add to the full year.         The price range of ExxonMobil common stock is as reported on the composite tape of the several U.S. exchanges where ExxonMobil common stock is traded. The principal
market where ExxonMobil common stock (XOM) is traded is the New York Stock Exchange, although the stock is traded on other exchanges in and outside the United States.      There were 546,588 registered shareholders of ExxonMobil common stock at December 31, 2008. At January 31, 2009, the registered shareholders of ExxonMobil common stock numbered 540,892.      On January 28, 2009, the Corporation declared a $0.40 dividend per common share, payable March 10, 2009.         
   40   

Table of Contents  

  Index to Financial Statements  

      MANAGEMENT S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS

41   

Table of Contents  

  Index to Financial Statements  

MANAGEMENT S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS          
      FORWARD-LOOKING STATEMENTS       Statements in this discussion regarding expectations, plans and future events or conditions are forward-looking statements. Actual future results, including demand growth
and energy source mix; capacity increases; production growth and mix; financing sources; the resolution of contingencies and uncertain tax positions; the effect of changes in prices; interest rates and other market conditions; and environmental and
capital expenditures could differ materially depending on a number of factors, such as the outcome of commercial negotiations; changes in the supply of and demand for crude oil, natural gas, and petroleum and petrochemical products; political or
regulatory events; and other factors discussed herein and in Item 1A of ExxonMobil s 2008 Form 10-K.         OVERVIEW  
     The following discussion and analysis of ExxonMobil s financial results, as well as the accompanying financial statements and related notes to
consolidated financial statements to which they refer, are the responsibility of the management of Exxon Mobil Corporation. The Corporation s accounting and financial reporting fairly reflect its straightforward business model involving the
extracting, manufacturing and marketing of hydrocarbons and hydrocarbon-based products. The Corporation s business model involves the production (or purchase), manufacture and sale of physical products, and all commercial activities are
directly in support of the underlying physical movement of goods. Our consistent, conservative approach to financing the capital-intensive needs of the Corporation has helped ExxonMobil to sustain the  triple-A  status of its long-term
debt securities for 90 years.      ExxonMobil, with its resource base, financial strength, disciplined investment approach and technology
portfolio, is well-positioned to participate in substantial investments to develop new energy supplies. While commodity prices are volatile on a short-term basis and depend on supply and demand, ExxonMobil s investment decisions are based on
our long-term business outlook, using a disciplined approach in selecting and pursuing the most attractive investment opportunities. The corporate plan is a fundamental annual management process that is the basis for setting near-term operating and
capital objectives in addition to providing the longer-term economic assumptions used for investment evaluation purposes. Volumes are based on individual field production profiles, which are also updated annually. Prices for crude oil, natural gas
and refined products are based on corporate plan assumptions developed annually by major region and are utilized for investment evaluation purposes. Potential investment opportunities are tested over a wide range of economic scenarios to establish
the resiliency of each opportunity. Once investments are made, a reappraisal process is completed to ensure relevant lessons are learned and improvements are incorporated into future projects.         BUSINESS ENVIRONMENT AND RISK ASSESSMENT        Long-Term Business Outlook       By 2030, the world s population is projected to grow to approximately 8 billion people, or about 1.5
billion more than in 2005. Coincident with this population increase, the Corporation expects worldwide economic growth to average close to 3 percent per year. This combination of population and economic growth is expected to lead to an increase in
primary energy demand of approximately 35 percent by 2030 versus 2005 even with substantial efficiency gains. The vast majority (over 90 percent) of the demand increase is expected to occur in developing countries.      As economic progress drives demand higher, the use of more energy-efficient technologies and practices will become increasingly important, leading to a
significantly lower level of energy consumption per unit of economic output by 2030. Efficiency gains will result from anticipated improvements in the transportation and power generation sectors, driven by the introduction of new technologies, as
well as many other improvements that span the residential, commercial and industrial sectors.      Energy for transportation   including
cars, trucks, ships, trains and airplanes   is expected to increase by 40 percent from 2005 to 2030. The global growth in transportation demand will be met primarily by oil, which is expected to provide almost 95 percent of all transportation
fuel by 2030, down from about 98 percent in 2005, as biofuels and natural gas gain market share.      Demand for electricity around the world
will grow significantly through 2030. Consistent with this projection, power generation will remain the largest and fastest-growing segment of global energy demand. Meeting the expected growth in power demand will require a diverse set of energy
sources. Coal will retain the largest share, however natural gas, nuclear and renewables are all expected to gain market share.      Liquid
fuels provide the largest share of energy supply today due to their availability, affordability and ease of transport. By 2030, global demand for liquids is expected to grow to approximately 108 million barrels of oil-equivalent per day or
close to 30 percent more than in 2005. Global demand for liquid fuels will be met by a wide variety of sources. Conventional non-OPEC crude and condensate production is expected to remain relatively flat through 2030. However, growth is expected
from a number of supply sources, including biofuels, oil sands and natural gas liquids, as well as crude oil from OPEC countries. While the world s resource base is sufficient to meet projected demand, access to resources and timely investments
will remain critical to meeting global needs.         
   42   

Table of Contents  

  Index to Financial Statements  

   Increases in natural gas demand in North America, Europe and Asia Pacific will require new sources of
supply, primarily from imports. The growing need for natural gas imports will have a dramatic impact on the worldwide liquefied natural gas (LNG) market, which is expected to more than triple in volume by 2030.      The world s energy mix is highly diverse and will remain so through 2030. Oil is expected to remain the largest source of energy supply at close to
35 percent. Natural gas is expected to grow the fastest of the fossil fuels and overtake coal as the second-largest energy source. Nuclear power is projected to grow significantly, surpassing coal in terms of absolute growth and becoming the
fourth-largest fuel source. Hydro and geothermal will also grow, though remain limited by the availability of natural sites. Wind, solar and biofuels are expected to grow at about 9 percent per year on average, the highest growth rate of all fuels,
and are projected to reach approximately 2 percent of world energy by 2030.      The Corporation anticipates that the world s available
oil and gas resource base will grow not only from new discoveries, but also from reserve increases in previously discovered fields. Technology will underpin these increases. The cost to develop and supply these resources will be significant.
According to the International Energy Agency, the investment required to meet total oil and gas energy needs worldwide through 2030 will be close to $500 billion per year on average, or about $11.7 trillion (measured in 2007 dollars) in total for
2007-2030.       Upstream       ExxonMobil continues to maintain
a large portfolio of development and exploration opportunities, which enables the Corporation to be selective, maximizing shareholder value and mitigating political and technical risks. ExxonMobil s fundamental Upstream business strategies
guide our global exploration, development, production, and gas and power marketing activities. These strategies include identifying and pursuing all attractive exploration opportunities, investing in projects that deliver superior returns,
maximizing profitability of existing oil and gas production, and capitalizing on growing natural gas and power markets. These strategies are underpinned by a relentless focus on operational excellence, commitment to innovative technologies,
development of our employees and investment in the communities in which we operate.      As future development projects bring new production
online, the Corporation expects a shift in the geographic mix of its production volumes between now and 2013. Oil and natural gas output from West Africa, the Caspian region, the Middle East and Russia is expected to increase over the next five
years based on current capital project execution plans. Currently, these growth areas account for 39 percent of the Corporation s production. By 2013, they are expected to generate about 50 percent of total volumes. The remainder of the
Corporation s production is expected to be sourced from established areas, including Europe, North America and Asia Pacific.      In
addition to a changing geographic mix, there will also be a change in the type of opportunities from which volumes are produced. Nonconventional production utilizing specialized technology such as arctic technology, deepwater drilling and production
systems, heavy oil recovery processes, tight gas production and LNG is expected to grow from about 30 percent to over 40 percent of the Corporation s output between now and 2013. The Corporation s overall volume capacity outlook, based on
projects coming onstream as anticipated, is for production capacity to grow over the period 2009-2013. However, actual volumes will vary from year to year due to the timing of individual project start-ups, operational outages, reservoir performance,
performance of enhanced oil recovery projects, regulatory changes, asset sales, weather events, price effects under production sharing contracts and other factors described in Item 1A of ExxonMobil s 2008 Form 10-K. Enhanced oil recovery
projects extract hydrocarbons from reservoirs in excess of that which may be produced through primary recovery, i.e., through pressure depletion or natural aquifer support. They include the injection of water, gases or chemicals into a reservoir to
produce hydrocarbons otherwise unobtainable.       Downstream       ExxonMobil s Downstream is a large, diversified business with refining and marketing complexes around the world. The Corporation has a strong presence in mature markets in North America and Europe, as well as the growing Asia Pacific
region. ExxonMobil s fundamental Downstream business strategies position the company to deliver long-term growth in shareholder value that is superior to competition across a range of market conditions. These strategies include maintaining
best-in-class operations in all aspects of the business, maximizing value from leading-edge technologies, capitalizing on integration with other ExxonMobil businesses, selectively investing for resilient, advantaged returns, leading the industry in
efficiency and effectiveness, and providing quality, valued products and services to customers.      ExxonMobil has an ownership interest in 37
refineries, located in 20 countries, with distillation capacity of 6.2 million barrels per day and lubricant basestock manufacturing capacity of about 140 thousand barrels per day. ExxonMobil s fuels and lubes marketing business
portfolios include operations around the world, serving a globally diverse customer base.      The downstream industry environment remains
competitive. The industry has experienced a period of robust refining margins, which has encouraged the construction of additional industry capacity. However, over the prior 20-year period, inflation-adjusted refining margins have declined at an
average rate of about 1 percent per year. Refining margins are largely driven by differences in commodity prices and are a function of the difference between what a refinery pays for its raw materials (primarily crude oil) and the market prices for
the range of products produced (primarily gasoline, heating oil, diesel oil, jet fuel and fuel oil). Crude oil and many products are widely traded with published prices, including those quoted on multiple exchanges around the world (e.g., New York
Mercantile Exchange and Intercontinental Exchange). Prices for these commodities are determined by the global marketplace and are influenced by many factors, including global and regional supply/demand balances, inventory levels, refinery
operations, import/export balances, seasonal demand, weather and political climate.         
   43   

Table of Contents  

  Index to Financial Statements  

MANAGEMENT S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS          
   ExxonMobil s long-term outlook continues to be that refining margins will generally decline as
refineries continue to improve efficiency and, in the near term, new capacity additions outpace the growth in global demand.      In the retail
fuels marketing business, ongoing intense competition continues to drive down inflation-adjusted margins by about 3 percent per year. In 2008, ExxonMobil announced its intention to transition out of the direct served (i.e., dealer, company-operated)
retail business in U.S. markets and to convert a majority of markets to a branded distributor model. This transition will be a multiyear process.      ExxonMobil s Downstream capital expenditures remain focused on selective and resilient investments. These investments capitalize on the Corporation s world-class scale and integration, industry-leading efficiency, leading-edge
technology and respected brands, enabling ExxonMobil to take advantage of attractive emerging-growth opportunities around the globe. For example, in 2008, ExxonMobil announced plans to invest over $1 billion in three refineries to increase the
supply of cleaner burning diesel by about 140 thousand barrels per day. The company will construct new units and modify existing facilities at its Baton Rouge, La., Baytown, Texas, and Antwerp, Belgium, refineries. ExxonMobil is also
participating in an integrated refining, petrochemicals and fuels marketing venture in Fujian, China, with our partners Saudi Aramco, Sinopec and Fujian Province. The manufacturing portion of the venture will expand an existing
80-thousand-barrel-per-day refinery in the Fujian Province to a 240-thousand-barrel-per-day high-conversion facility. The project also includes a new world-scale integrated chemical plant. The project is expected to start up in 2009. The fuels
marketing portion of the venture includes approximately 750 retail sites and a network of distribution terminals.       Chemical       Worldwide petrochemical demand decreased in 2008, reflecting the global economic slowdown in the second half of the year. Despite record high feedstock costs, chemical
growth continued in the first half of the year fueled by increased demand in Asia Pacific, particularly China. As a result, supply/demand balances supported higher product prices during this period. Demand dropped sharply in the second half of the
year, reflecting slower economic growth and broad supply chain inventory de-stocking during rapid feedstock cost declines. With this demand decrease, margins weakened and industry operating rates were cut back.      ExxonMobil benefited from continued operational excellence and a balanced portfolio of products. In addition to being a worldwide supplier of primary
petrochemical products, ExxonMobil Chemical also has a number of less-cyclical business lines. Chemical s competitive advantages are achieved through its business mix, broad geographic coverage, investment discipline, integration of chemical
capacity with large refineries or upstream gas processing facilities, advantaged feedstock capabilities, leading proprietary technology and product application expertise.         REVIEW OF 2008 AND 2007 RESULTS        
     2008       Net
income in 2008 of $45,220 million was a record for the Corporation, up $4,610 million from 2007. Net income for 2008 included an after-tax gain of $1,620 million from the sale of a natural gas transportation business in Germany and after-tax special
charges of $460 million related to the Valdez litigation.       2007       Net income in 2007 of $40,610 million was up $1,110 million from 2006. Net income for 2006 included a $410 million gain from the recognition of tax benefits related to historical investments in non-U.S. assets.          Upstream        
     2008       Upstream
earnings for 2008 totaled $35,402 million, an increase of $8,905 million from 2007, including an after-tax gain of $1,620 million from the sale of a natural gas transportation business in Germany. Record high crude oil and natural gas realizations
increased earnings approximately $11.8 billion. Lower sales volumes reduced earnings about $3.7 billion. Higher taxes and increased operating costs decreased earnings approximately $1.5 billion, partially offset by favorable foreign exchange.
Oil-equivalent production decreased 6 percent versus 2007, including impacts from lower entitlement volumes, the expropriation of assets in Venezuela and divestments. Excluding these impacts, total oil-equivalent production decreased 3 percent.
Liquids production of 2,405 kbd (thousands of barrels per day) decreased 211 kbd from 2007. Production increases from new projects in West Africa were more than offset by field decline, lower entitlement volumes, the expropriation of assets in
Venezuela and divestments. Natural gas production of 9,095 mcfd (millions of cubic feet per day) decreased 289 mcfd from 2007. Higher volumes from North Sea, Malaysia and Qatar projects and higher European demand were more than offset by field
decline. Earnings from U.S. Upstream operations for 2008 were $6,243 million, an increase of $1,373 million. Earnings outside the U.S. for 2008, including a $1,620 million gain related to the sale of the German natural gas transportation business,
were $29,159 million, $7,532 million higher than in 2007.         
   44   

Table of Contents  

  Index to Financial Statements  

    2007       Upstream
earnings for 2007 totaled $26,497 million, an increase of $267 million from 2006. Higher liquids realizations increased earnings approximately $3.1 billion, while lower natural gas realizations decreased earnings about $600 million. Higher operating
expenses and unfavorable tax effects reduced earnings about $2.2 billion. Oil-equivalent production decreased 1 percent versus 2006, including the expropriation of assets in Venezuela, divestments, OPEC quota effects, and price and spend impacts on
volumes. Excluding these impacts, total oil-equivalent production increased 1 percent. Liquids production of 2,616 kbd decreased 65 kbd from 2006. Production increases from new projects in West Africa and higher Russia volumes were offset by field
decline and production sharing contract net interest reductions. Natural gas production of 9,384 mcfd increased 50 mcfd from 2006. Higher volumes from projects in Qatar and the North Sea were mostly offset by mature field decline. Earnings from U.S.
Upstream operations for 2007 were $4,870 million, a decrease of $298 million. Earnings outside the U.S. for 2007 were $21,627 million, an increase of $565 million.       Downstream        
     2008       Downstream earnings of $8,151 million were $1,422 million lower than in 2007. Lower margins reduced earnings approximately $900 million, as weaker refining margins more than offset stronger marketing margins. Higher operating costs, mainly
associated with planned work activity, reduced earnings about $700 million, while unfavorable foreign exchange effects decreased earnings approximately $600 million. Improved refinery operations provided a partial offset, increasing earnings about
$800 million. Petroleum product sales of 6,761 kbd decreased from 7,099 kbd in 2007, primarily reflecting asset sales and lower demand. Refinery throughput was 5,416 kbd compared with 5,571 kbd in 2007. U.S. Downstream earnings were $1,649 million,
down $2,471 million from 2007. Non-U.S. Downstream earnings of $6,502 million were $1,049 million higher than in 2007.       2007       Downstream earnings totaled $9,573 million, an increase of $1,119 million from 2006. Improved worldwide refining operations increased earnings approximately $800 million,
while higher gains on asset sales improved earnings about $900 million. Lower refining margins decreased earnings approximately $600 million. Petroleum product sales of 7,099 kbd decreased from 7,247 kbd in 2006, primarily due to divestment impacts.
Refinery throughput was 5,571 kbd compared with 5,603 kbd in 2006. U.S. Downstream earnings of $4,120 million decreased $130 million. Non-U.S. Downstream earnings of $5,453 million were $1,249 million higher than in 2006.       Chemical        
     2008       Chemical
earnings totaled $2,957 million, a decrease of $1,606 million from 2007. Lower margins reduced earnings approximately $1.2 billion, while lower volumes decreased earnings about $500 million. Prime product sales were 24,982 kt (thousands of metric
tons), a decrease of 2,498 kt from last year. Prime product sales are total chemical product sales, including ExxonMobil s share of equity-company volumes and finished-product transfers to the Downstream business. Carbon black oil and sulfur
volumes are excluded. U.S. Chemical earnings of $724 million decreased $457 million. Non-U.S. Chemical earnings of $2,233 million were $1,149 million lower than in 2007.       2007       Chemical earnings totaled $4,563 million, an increase of $181 million from 2006. Higher sales volumes and
favorable foreign exchange effects increased earnings approximately $450 million, while lower margins reduced earnings about $325 million. Prime product sales were 27,480 kt, an increase of 130 kt. U.S. Chemical earnings of $1,181 million decreased
$179 million. Non-U.S. Chemical earnings of $3,382 million were $360 million higher than in 2006.         
   45   

Table of Contents  

  Index to Financial Statements  

MANAGEMENT S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS          
    Corporate and Financing        
     2008       Corporate and financing expenses of $1,290 million in 2008 increased $1,267 million from 2007, mainly due to charges of $460 million related to the Valdez litigation, net higher taxes and lower interest income.       2007       Corporate and financing expenses were $23 million in 2007,
compared to an earnings contribution of $434 million in 2006, which included a $410 million gain from tax benefits related to historical investments in non-U.S. assets.         LIQUIDITY AND CAPITAL RESOURCES        Sources and Uses of Cash        
    Cash and cash equivalents were $31.4 billion at the end of 2008, $2.5 billion lower than the prior year,
reflecting $2.7 billion of foreign exchange reductions from the strengthening of the U.S. dollar in 2008.      Cash and cash equivalents were $34.0 billion at
the end of 2007, $5.7 billion higher than the prior year, reflecting a $4.6 billion increase due to the release of the restriction on the restricted cash and cash equivalents and $1.8 billion of positive foreign exchange effects from the weakening
of the U.S. dollar in 2007. There were no restricted cash and cash equivalents at the end of 2007 (see note 4). Cash flows from operating, investing and financing activities are discussed below. For additional details, see the Consolidated Statement
of Cash Flows.      Although the Corporation could issue long-term debt and has access to short-term liquidity, internally generated funds
cover the majority of its financial requirements. The management of cash that may be temporarily available as surplus to the Corporation s immediate needs is carefully controlled to ensure that it is secure and readily available to meet the
Corporation s cash requirements and to optimize returns on the cash balances.      To support cash flows in future periods the Corporation
will need to continually find and develop new fields, and continue to develop and apply new technologies and recovery processes to existing fields, in order to maintain or increase production. After a period of production at plateau rates, it is the
nature of oil and gas fields eventually to produce at declining rates for the remainder of their economic life. Averaged over all the Corporation s existing oil and gas fields and without new projects, ExxonMobil s production is expected
to decline at approximately 6 percent per year, consistent with recent historical performance. Decline rates can vary widely by individual field due to a number of factors, including, but not limited to, the type of reservoir, fluid properties,
recovery mechanisms, and age of the field. Furthermore, the Corporation s net interest in production for individual fields can vary with price and contractual terms.      The Corporation has long been successful at offsetting the effects of natural field decline through disciplined investments and anticipates similar results in the future. Projects are in progress or planned to
increase production capacity. However, these volume increases are subject to a variety of risks including project start-up timing, operational outages, reservoir performance, crude oil and natural gas prices, weather events, and regulatory changes.
The Corporation s cash flows are also highly dependent on crude oil and natural gas prices.      The Corporation s financial
strength, as evidenced by its AAA/Aaa debt rating, enables it to make large, long-term capital expenditures. Capital and exploration expenditures in 2008 were $26.1 billion, reflecting the Corporation s continued active investment program. The
Corporation expects annual expenditures to range from $25 billion to $30 billion for the next several years. Actual spending could vary depending on the progress of individual projects. The Corporation has a large and diverse portfolio of
development projects and exploration opportunities, which helps mitigate the overall political and technical risks of the Corporation s Upstream segment and associated cash flow. Further, due to its financial strength, debt capacity and diverse
portfolio of opportunities, the risk associated with failure or delay of any single project would not have a significant impact on the Corporation s liquidity or ability to generate sufficient cash flows for operations and its fixed
commitments. The purchase and sale of oil and gas properties have not had a significant impact on the amount or timing of cash flows from operating activities.         
   46   

Table of Contents  

  Index to Financial Statements  

    Cash Flow from Operating Activities        2008       Cash provided by operating activities totaled $59.7 billion in 2008, a $7.7 billion increase from 2007. The
major source of funds was net income of $45.2 billion, adjusted for the noncash provision of $12.4 billion for depreciation and depletion, both of which increased. The net effects of lower prices and the timing of collection of accounts receivable
and of payments of accounts and other payables and of income taxes payable added to cash provided by operating activities.       2007       Cash provided by operating activities totaled $52.0 billion in 2007, a $2.7 billion increase from 2006. The major source of funds was net income of $40.6 billion,
adjusted for the noncash provision of $12.3 billion for depreciation and depletion, both of which increased.       Cash Flow from Investing Activities  
      2008       Cash used in investing activities netted to $15.5
billion in 2008, $5.8 billion higher than in 2007. Spending for property, plant and equipment of $19.3 billion in 2008 increased $3.9 billion from 2007. Proceeds from the sales of subsidiaries, investments and property, plant and equipment of $6.0
billion in 2008 compared to $4.2 billion in 2007, the increase reflecting the sale of the German natural gas transportation business in 2008. Cash used in investing activities in 2008 was higher due to the absence of the $4.6 billion positive cash
flow in 2007 from the release of the restriction on the restricted cash and cash equivalents. Net cash used for investments and advances and the change in marketable securities was $1.0 billion lower in 2008.       2007       Cash used in investing activities netted to $9.7 billion in
2007, $4.5 billion lower than in 2006. Spending for property, plant and equipment of $15.4 billion in 2007 was comparable to the prior year. Proceeds from the sales of subsidiaries, investments and property, plant and equipment of $4.2 billion in
2007 increased $1.1 billion, reflecting a higher level of asset sales in the Downstream business. Additions from the release of the restriction on the restricted cash and cash equivalents were $4.6 billion. Net investments and advances and net
additions to marketable securities were $1.3 billion higher in 2007.       Cash Flow from Financing Activities        2008       Cash used in financing activities was $44.0 billion in 2008, an
increase of $5.7 billion from 2007, reflecting a higher level of purchases of ExxonMobil shares. Dividend payments on common shares increased to $1.55 per share from $1.37 per share and totaled $8.1 billion, a pay-out of 18 percent. Total
consolidated short-term and long-term debt decreased $0.2 billion to $9.4 billion at year-end 2008.      Shareholders  equity decreased
$8.8 billion in 2008, to $113.0 billion. Net income of $45.2 billion, reduced by distributions to ExxonMobil shareholders of $8.1 billion of dividends and $32.0 billion of purchases of shares of ExxonMobil stock to reduce shares outstanding, added
to shareholders  equity. Shareholders  equity, and net assets and liabilities, decreased $6.8 billion, representing the foreign exchange translation effects of generally weaker foreign currencies at the end of 2008 on ExxonMobil s
operations outside the United States. The change in the funded status of the postretirement benefits reserves in 2008 lowered shareholders  equity by $5.1 billion.      During 2008, Exxon Mobil Corporation purchased 434 million shares of its common stock for the treasury at a gross cost of $35.7 billion. These purchases were to reduce the number of shares outstanding and to
offset shares issued in conjunction with company benefit plans and programs. Shares outstanding were reduced by 7.5 percent from 5,382 million at the end of 2007 to 4,976 million at the end of 2008. Purchases were made in both the open
market and through negotiated transactions. Purchases may be increased, decreased or discontinued at any time without prior notice.       2007
      Cash used in financing activities was $38.3 billion, an increase of $2.1 billion from 2006, reflecting a higher level of purchases of ExxonMobil
shares. Dividend payments on common shares increased to $1.37 per share from $1.28 per share and totaled $7.6 billion, a payout of 19 percent. Total consolidated short-term and long-term debt increased $1.2 billion to $9.6 billion at year-end 2007.
     Shareholders  equity increased $7.9 billion in 2007, to $121.8 billion, reflecting $40.6 billion of net income reduced by
distributions to ExxonMobil shareholders of $7.6 billion of dividends and $28.0 billion of purchases of shares of ExxonMobil stock to reduce shares outstanding. Shareholders  equity, and net assets and liabilities, increased $4.2 billion,
representing the foreign exchange translation effects of stronger foreign currencies at the end of 2007 on ExxonMobil s operations outside the United States.      During 2007, Exxon Mobil Corporation purchased 386 million shares of its common stock for the treasury at a gross cost of $31.8 billion. These purchases were to reduce the number of shares outstanding and to
offset shares issued in conjunction with company benefit plans and programs. Shares outstanding were reduced by 6.1 percent from 5,729 million at the end of 2006 to 5,382 million at the end of 2007. Purchases were made in both the open
market and through negotiated transactions.         
   47   

Table of Contents  

  Index to Financial Statements  

MANAGEMENT S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS          
    Commitments       Set
forth below is information about the outstanding commitments of the Corporation s consolidated subsidiaries at December 31, 2008. It combines data from the Consolidated Balance Sheet and from individual notes to the Consolidated Financial
Statements.       
    This table excludes commodity purchase obligations (volumetric commitments but no fixed or minimum
price) which are resold shortly after purchase, either in an active, highly liquid market or under long-term, unconditional sales contracts with similar pricing terms. Examples include long-term, noncancelable LNG and natural gas purchase
commitments and commitments to purchase refinery products at market prices. Inclusion of such commitments would not be meaningful in assessing liquidity and cash flow, because these purchases will be offset in the same periods by cash received from
the related sales transactions. The table also excludes unrecognized tax benefits totaling $5.0 billion as of December 31, 2008, because the Corporation is unable to make reasonably reliable estimates of the timing of cash settlements with the
respective taxing authorities. Further details on the unrecognized tax benefits can be found in note 18, Income, Sales-Based and Other Taxes.      Notes:

(1)  
  Includes capitalized lease obligations of $380 million.     

(2)  
  The amount due in one year is included in notes and loans payable of $2,400 million (note 5).     

(3)  
  The fair value of upstream asset retirement obligations, primarily asset removal costs at the completion of field life.     

(4)  
  The amount by which the benefit obligations exceeded the fair value of fund assets for certain U.S. and non-U.S. pension and other postretirement plans at year end. The payments by
period include expected contributions to funded pension plans in 2009 and estimated benefit payments for unfunded plans in all years.     

(5)  
  Minimum commitments for operating leases, shown on an undiscounted basis, cover drilling equipment, tankers, service stations and other properties.     

(6)  
  Unconditional purchase obligations (UPOs) are those long-term commitments that are noncancelable and that third parties have used to secure financing for the facilities that will
provide the contracted goods or services. The undiscounted obligations of $2,271 million mainly pertain to pipeline throughput agreements and include $1,651 million of obligations to equity companies. The present value of the total commitments,
which excludes imputed interest of $423 million, was $1,848 million.     

(7)  
  Take-or-pay obligations are noncancelable, long-term commitments for goods and services other than UPOs. The undiscounted obligations of $10,013 million mainly pertain to
manufacturing supply, pipeline and terminaling agreements and include $537 million of obligations to equity companies. The present value of the total commitments, which excludes imputed interest of $2,704 million, totaled $7,309 million.

(8)  
  Firm commitments related to capital projects, shown on an undiscounted basis, totaled approximately $20.8 billion. These commitments were primarily associated with Upstream projects
outside the U.S., of which $9.3 billion was associated with projects in West Africa and Kazakhstan. The Corporation expects to fund the majority of these projects through internal cash flow.         Guarantees       The Corporation and certain of its consolidated
subsidiaries were contingently liable at December 31, 2008, for $7,847 million, primarily relating to guarantees for notes, loans and performance under contracts (note 15). Included in this amount were guarantees by consolidated affiliates of
$6,102 million, representing ExxonMobil s share of obligations of certain equity companies. The below-mentioned guarantees are not reasonably likely to have a material effect on the Corporation s financial condition, changes in financial
condition, revenues or expenses, results of operations, liquidity, capital expenditures or capital resources.       
       
   48   

Table of Contents  

  Index to Financial Statements  

    Financial Strength       On December 31, 2008, unused credit lines for short-term financing totaled approximately $5.3 billion (note 5).      The table
below shows the Corporation s fixed-charge coverage and consolidated debt-to-capital ratios. The data demonstrate the Corporation s creditworthiness. Throughout this period, the Corporation s long-term debt securities maintained the
top credit rating from both Standard   Poor s (AAA) and Moody s (Aaa), a rating it has sustained for 90 years.       
    Management views the Corporation s financial strength, as evidenced by the above financial
ratios and other similar measures, to be a competitive advantage of strategic importance. The Corporation s sound financial position gives it the opportunity to access the world s capital markets in the full range of market conditions, and
enables the Corporation to take on large, long-term capital commitments in the pursuit of maximizing shareholder value.      The Corporation
makes limited use of derivative instruments, which are discussed in note 12.       Litigation and Other Contingencies        Litigation       As discussed in note 15, a number of lawsuits, including
class actions, were brought in various courts against Exxon Mobil Corporation and certain of its subsidiaries relating to the accidental release of crude oil from the tanker Exxon Valdez in 1989. All the compensatory claims have been resolved and
paid. All of the punitive damage claims were consolidated in the civil trial that began in 1994. On June 25, 2008, the U.S. Supreme Court vacated the $2.5 billion punitive damage award previously entered by the Ninth Circuit Court of Appeals
and remanded the case to the Circuit Court with an instruction that punitive damages in the case may not exceed a maximum amount of $507.5 million. Exxon Mobil Corporation recorded an after-tax charge of $290 million in the second quarter of 2008,
reflecting the maximum amount of the punitive damages. The parties have filed briefs in the Ninth Circuit Court of Appeals on the issue of post-judgment interest and recovery of costs. Exxon Mobil Corporation recorded an after-tax charge of $170
million in the third quarter of 2008, reflecting its estimate of the resolution of those issues.      Based on a consideration of all relevant
facts and circumstances, the Corporation does not believe the ultimate outcome of any currently pending lawsuit against ExxonMobil will have a materially adverse effect upon the Corporation s operations or financial condition. There are no
events or uncertainties beyond those already included in reported financial information that would indicate a material change in future operating results or financial condition.       Other Contingencies       In accordance with a nationalization decree issued by Venezuela s president in February
2007, by May 1, 2007, a subsidiary of the Venezuelan National Oil Company (PdVSA) assumed the operatorship of the Cerro Negro Heavy Oil Project. This Project had been operated and owned by ExxonMobil affiliates holding a 41.67 percent ownership
interest in the Project. The decree also required conversion of the Cerro Negro Project into a  mixed enterprise  and an increase in PdVSA s or one of its affiliate s ownership interest in the Project, with the stipulation that
if ExxonMobil refused to accept the terms for the formation of the mixed enterprise within a specified period of time, the government would  directly assume the activities  carried out by the joint venture. ExxonMobil refused to accede to
the terms proffered by the government, and on June 27, 2007, the government expropriated ExxonMobil s 41.67 percent interest in the Cerro Negro Project.      On September 6, 2007, affiliates of ExxonMobil filed a Request for Arbitration with the International Centre for Settlement of Investment Disputes. An affiliate of ExxonMobil has also filed an arbitration under
the rules of the International Chamber of Commerce against PdVSA and a PdVSA affiliate for breach of their contractual obligations under certain Cerro Negro Project agreements. At this time, the net impact of this matter on the Corporation s
consolidated financial results cannot be reasonably estimated. However, the Corporation does not expect the resolution to have a material effect upon the Corporation s operations or financial condition. ExxonMobil s remaining net book
investment in Cerro Negro producing assets is about $750 million.           
 CAPITAL AND EXPLORATION EXPENDITURES        

(1)   
   Exploration expenses included.         Capital and exploration
expenditures in 2008 were $26.1 billion, reflecting the Corporation s continued active investment program. The Corporation expects annual expenditures to range from $25 billion to $30 billion for the next several years. Actual spending could
vary depending on the progress of individual projects.      Upstream spending of $19.7 billion in 2008 was up 26 percent from 2007, mainly due
to increased project and exploration expenditures. During the past three years, Upstream capital and exploration expenditures averaged $17.2 billion. The majority of these expenditures are on development projects, which typically take two to four
years from the time of recording proved undeveloped reserves to the start of production from those reserves. The percentage of proved developed reserves has remained relatively stable over the past five years at over 60 percent of total proved
reserves, indicating that proved reserves are consistently moved from undeveloped to developed status. Capital and exploration expenditures are not tracked by the undeveloped and developed proved reserve categories. Capital investments in the

49   

Table of Contents  

  Index to Financial Statements  

MANAGEMENT S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS          
  
 Downstream totaled $3.5 billion in 2008, an increase of $0.2 billion from 2007, due to higher environmental expenditures. Chemical 2008 capital expenditures
of $2.8 billion were up $1.0 billion from 2007 due to increased investment in Asia Pacific to meet demand growth.         TAXES  
      
     2008       Income,
sales-based and all other taxes totaled $116.3 billion in 2008, an increase of $10.6 billion or 10 percent from 2007. Income tax expense, both current and deferred, was $36.5 billion, $6.7 billion higher than 2007, reflecting higher pre-tax income
in 2008. A higher share of total income from the non-U.S. Upstream segment in 2008 increased the effective tax rate to 47 percent compared to 44 percent in 2007. Sales-based and all other taxes and duties of $79.7 billion in 2008 increased $3.9
billion from 2007, reflecting higher prices.       2007       Income, sales-based and all other taxes totaled $105.7 billion in 2007, an increase of $5.0 billion or 5 percent from 2006. Income tax expense, both current and deferred, was $29.9 billion, $2.0 billion higher than 2006, reflecting higher
pre-tax income in 2007. The effective tax rate was 44 percent in 2007, compared to 43 percent in 2006. Sales-based and all other taxes and duties of $75.8 billion in 2007 increased $3.0 billion from 2006, reflecting higher prices.         ENVIRONMENTAL MATTERS        Environmental
Expenditures        
    Throughout ExxonMobil s businesses, new and ongoing measures are taken to prevent and minimize the impact of
our operations on air, water and ground. These include a significant investment in refining infrastructure and technology to manufacture clean fuels as well as projects to reduce nitrogen oxide and sulfur oxide emissions and expenditures for asset
retirement obligations. ExxonMobil s 2008 worldwide environmental expenditures for all such preventative and remediation steps, including ExxonMobil s share of equity company expenditures, were about $5.2 billion. The total cost for such
activities is expected to remain in this range in 2009 and 2010 (with capital expenditures approximately 50 percent of the total).       Environmental
Liabilities       The Corporation accrues environmental liabilities when it is probable that obligations have been incurred and the amounts can be reasonably
estimated. This policy applies to assets or businesses currently owned or previously disposed. ExxonMobil has accrued liabilities for probable environmental remediation obligations at various sites, including multiparty sites where the U.S.
Environmental Protection Agency has identified ExxonMobil as one of the potentially responsible parties. The involvement of other financially responsible companies at these multiparty sites could mitigate ExxonMobil s actual joint and several
liability exposure. At present, no individual site is expected to have losses material to ExxonMobil s operations or financial condition. Consolidated company provisions made in 2008 for environmental liabilities were $507 million ($432 million
in 2007) and the balance sheet reflects accumulated liabilities of $884 million as of December 31, 2008, and $916 million as of December 31, 2007.       Asset Retirement Obligations       The fair values of asset retirement obligations are recorded as liabilities on a discounted basis when they
are incurred, which is typically at the time assets are installed, with an offsetting amount booked as additions to property, plant and equipment ($195 million for 2008). Over time, the liabilities are accreted for the increase in their present
value, with this effect included in expenses ($335 million in 2008). Consolidated company expenditures for asset retirement obligations in 2008 were $258 million and the ending balance of the obligations recorded on the balance sheet at
December 31, 2008, totaled $5,352 million.         MARKET RISKS, INFLATION AND OTHER UNCERTAINTIES        

(1)   
   Consolidated subsidiaries.         Crude oil, natural gas, petroleum
product and chemical prices have fluctuated in response to changing market forces. The impacts of these price fluctuations on earnings from Upstream, Downstream and Chemical operations have varied. In the Upstream, a $1 per barrel change in the
weighted-average realized price of oil would have approximately a $375 million annual after-tax effect on Upstream consolidated plus equity company earnings. Similarly, a $0.10 per kcf change in the worldwide average gas realization would have
approximately a $175 million annual after-tax effect on Upstream consolidated plus equity company earnings. For any given period, the extent of actual benefit or detriment will be dependent on the price movements of individual types of crude oil,
taxes and other government take impacts, price adjustment lags in long-term gas contracts, and crude and gas production volumes. Accordingly, changes in benchmark prices for crude oil and natural gas only provide broad indicators of changes in the
earnings experienced in any particular period.         
   50   

Table of Contents  

  Index to Financial Statements  

   In the very competitive downstream and chemical environments, earnings are primarily determined by margin
capture rather than absolute price levels of products sold. Refining margins are a function of the difference between what a refiner pays for its raw materials (primarily crude oil) and the market prices for the range of products produced. These
prices in turn depend on global and regional supply/demand balances, inventory levels, refinery operations, import/export balances and weather.      The global energy markets can give rise to extended periods in which market conditions are adverse to one or more of the Corporation s businesses. Such conditions, along with the capital-intensive nature of the industry and very long
lead times associated with many of our projects, underscore the importance of maintaining a strong financial position. Management views the Corporation s financial strength, including the AAA and Aaa ratings of its long-term debt securities by
Standard   Poor s and Moody s, as a competitive advantage.      In general, segment results are not dependent on the ability
to sell and/or purchase products to/from other segments. Instead, where such sales take place, they are the result of efficiencies and competitive advantages of integrated refinery/chemical complexes. Additionally, intersegment sales are at
market-based prices. The products bought and sold between segments can also be acquired in worldwide markets that have substantial liquidity, capacity and transportation capabilities. About 40 percent of the Corporation s intersegment sales are
crude oil produced by the Upstream and sold to the Downstream. Other intersegment sales include those between refineries and chemical plants related to raw materials, feedstocks and finished products.      Although price levels of crude oil and natural gas may rise or fall significantly over the short to medium term due to political events, OPEC actions and
other factors, industry economics over the long term will continue to be driven by market supply and demand. Accordingly, the Corporation tests the viability of all of its investments over a broad range of future prices. The Corporation s
assessment is that its operations will continue to be successful in a variety of market conditions. This is the outcome of disciplined investment and asset management programs. Investment opportunities are tested against a variety of market
conditions, including low-price scenarios.      The Corporation has an active asset management program in which underperforming assets are
either improved to acceptable levels or considered for divestment. The asset management program includes a disciplined, regular review to ensure that all assets are contributing to the Corporation s strategic objectives. The result is an
efficient capital base, and the Corporation has seldom had to write down the carrying value of assets, even during periods of low commodity prices.       Risk Management       The Corporation s size, strong capital structure, geographic diversity and the complementary nature of the Upstream,
Downstream and Chemical businesses reduce the Corporation s enterprise-wide risk from changes in interest rates, currency rates and commodity prices. As a result, the Corporation makes limited use of derivative instruments to mitigate the
impact of such changes. The Corporation does not engage in speculative derivative activities or derivative trading activities nor does it use derivatives with leveraged features. The Corporation maintains a system of controls that includes the
authorization, reporting and monitoring of derivative activity. The Corporation s limited derivative activities pose no material credit or market risks to ExxonMobil s operations, financial condition or liquidity. Note 12 summarizes the
fair value of derivatives outstanding at year end and the gains or losses that have been recognized in net income.      The Corporation is
exposed to changes in interest rates, primarily on its short-term debt and the portion of long-term debt that carries floating interest rates. The impact of a 100-basis-point change in interest rates affecting the Corporation s debt would not
be material to earnings, cash flow or fair value. The Corporation s cash balances exceeded total debt at year-end 2008 and 2007. During 2008, credit markets tightened and the global economy slowed. The Corporation is not dependent on the credit
markets to fund current operations. However, some joint-venture partners are dependent on the credit markets, and their funding ability may impact the development pace of joint-venture projects.        The Corporation conducts business in many foreign currencies and is subject to exchange rate risk on cash flows related to sales, expenses,
financing and investment transactions. The impacts of fluctuations in exchange rates on ExxonMobil s geographically and functionally diverse operations are varied and often offsetting in amount. The Corporation makes limited use of currency
exchange contracts, commodity forwards, swaps and futures contracts to mitigate the impact of changes in currency values and commodity prices. Exposures related to the Corporation s limited use of the above contracts are not material.   
      Inflation and Other Uncertainties       The general rate of
inflation in many major countries of operation increased in 2008 versus the relatively low rates in recent years, and the associated impact on non-energy costs has generally been mitigated by cost reductions from efficiency and productivity
improvements. Increased global demand for certain services and materials has resulted in higher operating and capital costs in recent years. The Corporation works to counter upward pressure on costs through its economies of scale in global
procurement and its efficient project management practices.         
   51   

Table of Contents  

  Index to Financial Statements  

MANAGEMENT S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS          
      RECENTLY ISSUED STATEMENTS OF FINANCIAL ACCOUNTING STANDARDS        Noncontrolling Interests in Consolidated Financial Statements       In
December 2007, the Financial Accounting Standards Board (FASB) issued FASB Statement No. 160 (FAS 160),  Noncontrolling Interests in Consolidated Financial Statements   an Amendment of ARB No. 51.  FAS 160 changes the
accounting and reporting for minority interests, which will be recharacterized as noncontrolling interests and classified as a component of equity.      FAS 160 must be adopted by the Corporation no later than January 1, 2009. FAS 160 requires retrospective adoption of the presentation and disclosure requirements for existing minority interests. All other requirements of FAS 160 will
be applied prospectively. The Corporation does not expect the adoption of FAS 160 to have a material impact on the Corporation s financial statements.       Revisions to the Earnings Per Share Calculation       In 2008, the FASB issued a Staff Position (FSP) on the Emerging Issues Task Force (EITF)
Issue No. 03-6-1,  Determining Whether Instruments Granted in Share-Based Payment Transactions are Participating Securities.  The FSP clarified that all unvested share-based payment awards that contain nonforfeitable rights to
dividends should be included in the basic Earnings Per Share (EPS) calculation. The FSP will be effective for first quarter 2009 reporting. The implementation of this standard for the Corporation will result in changes in the calculation of basic
and diluted EPS that are not expected to be material. Prior-year EPS numbers will be adjusted retrospectively on a consistent basis. This standard will not affect the consolidated financial position or results of operations.         CRITICAL ACCOUNTING POLICIES         The
Corporation s accounting and financial reporting fairly reflect its straightforward business model involving the extracting, refining and marketing of hydrocarbons and hydrocarbon-based products. The preparation of financial statements in
conformity with U.S. Generally Accepted Accounting Principles (GAAP) requires management to make estimates and judgments that affect the reported amounts of assets, liabilities, revenues and expenses and the disclosure of contingent assets and
liabilities. The following summary provides further information about the critical accounting policies and the judgments that are made by the Corporation in the application of those policies.         Oil and Gas Reserves       Evaluations of oil and gas reserves are
important to the effective management of Upstream assets. They are integral to making investment decisions about oil and gas properties such as whether development should proceed. Oil and gas reserve quantities are also used as the basis for
calculating unit-of-production depreciation rates and for evaluating impairment. Oil and gas reserves include both proved and unproved reserves. Proved reserves are the estimated quantities of crude oil, natural gas and natural gas liquids that
geological and engineering data demonstrate with reasonable certainty to be recoverable in future years from known reservoirs under existing economic and operating conditions; i.e., prices and costs as of the date the estimate is made. Unproved
reserves are those with less than reasonable certainty of recoverability and include probable reserves. Probable reserves are reserves that are more likely to be recovered than not.      The estimation of proved reserves, which is based on the requirement of reasonable certainty, is an ongoing process based on rigorous technical
evaluations, commercial and market assessment, and detailed analysis of well information such as flow rates and reservoir pressure declines. The estimation of proved reserves is controlled by the Corporation through long-standing approval
guidelines. Reserve changes are made within a well-established, disciplined process driven by senior level geoscience and engineering professionals (assisted by a central reserves group with significant technical experience), culminating in reviews
with and approval by senior management. Notably, the Corporation does not use specific quantitative reserve targets to determine compensation.      Key features of the reserves estimation process include:       

rigorous peer-reviewed technical evaluations and analysis of well and field performance information (such as flow rates and reservoir pressure declines) and

a requirement that management make significant funding commitments toward the development of the reserves prior to reporting as proved.
        Although the Corporation is reasonably certain that proved reserves will be produced, the timing and amount recovered
can be affected by a number of factors including completion of development projects, reservoir performance, regulatory approvals and significant changes in long-term oil and gas price levels.      Proved reserves can be further subdivided into developed and undeveloped reserves. The percentage of proved developed reserves has remained relatively
stable over the past five years at over 60 percent of total proved reserves (including both consolidated and equity company reserves), indicating that proved reserves are consistently moved from undeveloped to developed status. Over time, these
undeveloped reserves will be reclassified to the developed category as new wells are drilled, existing wells are recompleted and/or facilities to collect and deliver the production from existing and future wells are installed. Major development
projects typically take two to four years from the time of recording proved reserves to the start of production from these reserves.      The
year-end reserves volumes as well as the reserves change categories shown in the proved reserves tables are calculated using December 31 prices and costs. These reserves quantities are also used in calculating unit-of-production depreciation
rates and in calculating the standardized measure of discounted net cash flow. We understand that the use of December 31 prices and costs is intended to provide a point in time measure to calculate reserves and to enhance comparability between
companies. However, the use of year-end prices for reserves estimation introduces short-term price volatility into the process, which  
       
   52   

Table of Contents  

  Index to Financial Statements  

is inconsistent with the long-term nature of the upstream business, since annual adjustments are required based on prices occurring on a single day. As a
result, the use of prices from a single date is not relevant to the investment decisions made by the Corporation.      Revisions can include
upward or downward changes in previously estimated volumes of proved reserves for existing fields due to the evaluation or re-evaluation of (1) already available geologic, reservoir or production data, (2) new geologic, reservoir or
production data or (3) changes in year-end prices and costs that are used in the determination of reserves. This category can also include significant changes in either development strategy or production equipment/facility capacity.   
  The Corporation uses the  successful efforts  method to account for its exploration and production activities. Under this method, costs are
accumulated on a field-by-field basis with certain exploratory expenditures and exploratory dry holes being expensed as incurred. Costs of productive wells and development dry holes are capitalized and amortized on the unit-of-production method. The
Corporation uses this accounting policy instead of the  full cost  method because it provides a more timely accounting of the success or failure of the Corporation s exploration and production activities. If the full cost method were
used, all costs would be capitalized and depreciated on a country-by-country basis. The capitalized costs would be subject to an impairment test by country. The full cost method would tend to delay the expense recognition of unsuccessful projects.
      Impact of Oil and Gas Reserves on Depreciation.  The calculation of unit-of-production depreciation is a critical accounting estimate that measures
the depreciation of upstream assets. It is the ratio of actual volumes produced to total proved developed reserves (those proved reserves recoverable through existing wells with existing equipment and operating methods), applied to the asset cost.
The volumes produced and asset cost are known and, while proved developed reserves have a high probability of recoverability, they are based on estimates that are subject to some variability. While the revisions the Corporation has made in the past
are an indicator of variability, they have had a very small impact on the unit-of-production rates because they have been small compared to the large reserves base.       Impact of Oil and Gas Reserves and Prices on Testing for Impairment.  Proved oil and gas properties held and used by the Corporation are reviewed for impairment whenever events or circumstances indicate that the
carrying amounts may not be recoverable. Assets are grouped at the lowest level for which there are identifiable cash flows that are largely independent of the cash flows of other groups of assets.      The Corporation estimates the future undiscounted cash flows of the affected properties to judge the recoverability of carrying amounts. In general,
analyses are based on proved reserves. Where probable reserves exist, an appropriately risk-adjusted amount of these reserves may be included in the impairment evaluation. An asset would be impaired if the undiscounted cash flows were less than its
carrying value. Impairments are measured by the amount by which the carrying value exceeds its fair value.      The Corporation performs asset
valuation analyses on an ongoing basis as a part of its asset management program. These analyses monitor the performance of assets against corporate objectives. They also assist the Corporation in assessing whether the carrying amounts of any of its
assets may not be recoverable. In addition to estimating oil and gas reserve volumes in conducting these analyses, it is also necessary to estimate future oil and gas prices. Trigger events for impairment evaluation include a significant decrease in
current and projected prices or reserve volumes, an accumulation of project costs significantly in excess of the amount originally expected, and historical and current operating losses.      In general, the Corporation does not view temporarily low oil and gas prices as a trigger event for conducting the impairment tests. The markets for
crude oil and natural gas have a history of significant price volatility. Although prices will occasionally drop significantly, industry prices over the long term will continue to be driven by market supply and demand. On the supply side, industry
production from mature fields is declining, but this is being offset by production from new discoveries and field developments. OPEC production policies also have an impact on world oil supplies. The demand side is largely a function of global
economic growth. The relative growth/decline in supply versus demand will determine industry prices over the long term and these cannot be accurately predicted. Accordingly, any impairment tests that the Corporation performs make use of the
Corporation s price assumptions developed in the annual planning and budgeting process for the crude oil and natural gas markets, petroleum products and chemicals. These are the same price assumptions that are used for capital investment
decisions. Volumes are based on individual field production profiles, which are updated annually. Cash flow estimates for impairment testing exclude the use of derivative instruments.      Supplemental information regarding oil and gas results of operations, capitalized costs and reserves is provided following the notes to consolidated
financial statements. The standardized measure of discounted future cash flows is based on the year-end price applied for all future years, as required under Statement of Financial Accounting Standards No. 69 (FAS 69),  Disclosure about
Oil and Gas Producing Activities.  Future prices used for any impairment tests will vary from the one used in the FAS 69 disclosure and could be lower or higher for any given year.         
   53   

Table of Contents  

  Index to Financial Statements  

MANAGEMENT S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS          
    Suspended Exploratory Well Costs       The Corporation carries as an asset exploratory well costs when the well has found a sufficient quantity of reserves to justify its completion as a producing well and where the Corporation is making sufficient
progress assessing the reserves and the economic and operating viability of the project. Exploratory well costs not meeting these criteria are charged to expense. Assessing whether a project has made sufficient progress is a subjective area and
requires careful consideration of the relevant facts and circumstances. The facts and circumstances that support continued capitalization of suspended wells as of year-end 2008 are disclosed in note 9 to the financial statements.       Consolidations       The Consolidated Financial Statements include the
accounts of those subsidiaries that the Corporation controls. They also include the Corporation s share of the undivided interest in certain upstream assets and liabilities. Amounts representing the Corporation s percentage interest in the
underlying net assets of other significant affiliates that it does not control, but exercises significant influence, are included in  Investments, advances and long-term receivables  the Corporation s share of the net income of these
companies is included in the Consolidated Statement of Income caption  Income from equity affiliates.  The accounting for these non-consolidated companies is referred to as the equity method of accounting.      Majority ownership is normally the indicator of control that is the basis on which subsidiaries are consolidated. However, certain factors may indicate
that a majority-owned investment is not controlled and therefore should be accounted for using the equity method of accounting. These factors occur where the minority shareholders are granted by law or by contract substantive participating rights.
These include the right to approve operating policies, expense budgets, financing and investment plans and management compensation and succession plans.      Additional disclosures of summary balance sheet and income information for those subsidiaries accounted for under the equity method of accounting can be found in note 6.      Investments in companies that are partially owned by the Corporation are integral to the Corporation s operations. In some cases they serve to
balance worldwide risks and in others they provide the only available means of entry into a particular market or area of interest. The other parties who also have an equity interest in these companies are either independent third parties or host
governments that share in the business results according to their percentage ownership. The Corporation does not invest in these companies in order to remove liabilities from its balance sheet. In fact, the Corporation has long been on record
supporting an alternative accounting method that would require each investor to consolidate its percentage share of all assets and liabilities in these partially owned companies rather than only its percentage in the net equity. This method of
accounting for investments in partially owned companies is not permitted by GAAP except where the investments are in the direct ownership of a share of upstream assets and liabilities. However, for purposes of calculating return on average capital
employed, which is not covered by GAAP standards, the Corporation includes its share of debt of these partially owned companies in the determination of average capital employed.       Pension Benefits       The Corporation and its affiliates sponsor approximately 100 defined benefit (pension) plans in
about 50 countries. The funding arrangement for each plan depends on the prevailing practices and regulations of the countries where the Corporation operates. Pension and Other Postretirement Benefits (note 16) provides details on pension
obligations, fund assets and pension expense.      Some of these plans (primarily non-U.S.) provide pension benefits that are paid directly by
their sponsoring affiliates out of corporate cash flow rather than a separate pension fund. Book reserves are established for these plans because tax conventions and regulatory practices do not encourage advance funding. The portion of the pension
cost attributable to employee service is expensed as services are rendered. The portion attributable to the increase in pension obligations due to the passage of time is expensed over the term of the obligations, which ends when all benefits are
paid. The primary difference in pension expense for unfunded versus funded plans is that pension expense for funded plans also includes a credit for the expected long-term return on fund assets.      For funded plans, including those in the United States, pension obligations are financed in advance through segregated assets or insurance arrangements.
These plans are managed in compliance with the requirements of governmental authorities and meet or exceed required funding levels as measured by relevant actuarial and government standards at the mandated measurement dates. In determining
liabilities and required contributions, these standards often require approaches and assumptions that differ from those used for accounting purposes.      The Corporation will continue to make contributions to these funded plans as necessary. All defined-benefit pension obligations, regardless of the funding status of the underlying plans, are fully supported by the
financial strength of the Corporation or the respective sponsoring affiliate.      Pension accounting requires explicit assumptions regarding,
among others, the long-term expected earnings rate on fund assets, the discount rate for the benefit obligations and the long-term rate for future salary increases. Pension assumptions are reviewed annually by outside actuaries and senior
management. These assumptions are adjusted as appropriate to reflect changes in market rates and outlook. The long-term expected earnings rate on U.S. pension plan assets in 2008 was 9.0 percent. The 10-year and 20-year actual returns on U.S.
pension plan assets are 5 percent and 9 percent, respectively. The Corporation establishes the long-term expected rate of return by developing a forward-looking, long-term return assumption for each pension fund asset class, taking into account
factors such as the expected real return  
       
   54   

Table of Contents  

  Index to Financial Statements  

for the specific asset class and inflation. A single, long-term rate of return is then calculated as the weighted average of the target asset allocation and
the long-term return assumption for each asset class. A worldwide reduction of 0.5 percent in the long-term rate of return on assets would increase annual pension expense by approximately $90 million before tax.      Differences between actual returns on fund assets and the long-term expected return are not recognized in pension expense in the year that the difference
occurs. Such differences are deferred, along with other actuarial gains and losses, and are amortized into pension expense over the expected remaining service life of employees.       Litigation Contingencies       A variety of claims have been made against the Corporation and certain of its consolidated
subsidiaries in a number of pending lawsuits. Management has regular litigation reviews, including updates from corporate and outside counsel, to assess the need for accounting recognition or disclosure of these contingencies. The status of
significant claims is summarized in note 15.      GAAP requires that liabilities for contingencies be recorded when it is probable that a
liability has been incurred by the date of the balance sheet and that the amount can be reasonably estimated. These amounts are not reduced by amounts that may be recovered under insurance or claims against third parties, but undiscounted
receivables from insurers or other third parties may be accrued separately. The Corporation revises such accruals in light of new information. For contingencies where an unfavorable outcome is reasonably possible and which are significant, the
Corporation discloses the nature of the contingency and, where feasible, an estimate of the possible loss.      Significant management judgment
is required related to contingent liabilities and the outcome of litigation because both are difficult to predict. However, the Corporation has been successful in defending litigation in the past. Payments have not had a materially adverse effect on
operations or financial condition. In the Corporation s experience, large claims often do not result in large awards. Large awards are often reversed or substantially reduced as a result of appeal or settlement.       Tax Contingencies       The Corporation is subject to income taxation in
many jurisdictions around the world. Significant management judgment is required in the accounting for income tax contingencies and tax disputes because the outcomes are often difficult to predict.      GAAP requires recognition and measurement of uncertain tax positions that the Corporation has taken or expects to take in its income tax returns. The
benefit of an uncertain tax position can only be recognized in the financial statements if management concludes that it is more likely than not that the position will be sustained with the tax authorities. For a position that is likely to be
sustained, the benefit recognized in the financial statements is measured at the largest amount that is greater than 50 percent likely of being realized. A reserve is established for the difference between a position taken in an income tax return
and the amount recognized in the financial statements. The Corporation s unrecognized tax benefits and a description of open tax years are summarized in note 18.       Foreign Currency Translation       The method of translating the foreign currency financial statements of the
Corporation s international subsidiaries into U.S. dollars is prescribed by GAAP. Under these principles, it is necessary to select the functional currency of these subsidiaries. The functional currency is the currency of the primary economic
environment in which the subsidiary operates. Management selects the functional currency after evaluating this economic environment. Downstream and Chemical operations use the local currency, except in countries with a history of high inflation
(primarily in Latin America) and Singapore, which uses the U.S. dollar because it predominantly sells into the U.S. dollar export market. Upstream operations also use the local currency as the functional currency, except where crude and natural gas
production is predominantly sold in the export market in U.S. dollars. Operations using the U.S. dollar as their functional currency are primarily in Asia, West Africa, Russia and the Middle East.      Factors considered by management when determining the functional currency for a subsidiary include: the currency used for cash flows related to
individual assets and liabilities; the responsiveness of sales prices to changes in exchange rates; the history of inflation in the country; whether sales are into local markets or exported; the currency used to acquire raw materials, labor,
services and supplies; sources of financing; and significance of intercompany transactions.         
   55   

Table of Contents  

  Index to Financial Statements  

      MANAGEMENT S REPORT ON INTERNAL CONTROL OVER FINANCIAL REPORTING       Management, including the Corporation s chief executive officer, principal financial officer, and principal accounting officer, is responsible for establishing and
maintaining adequate internal control over the Corporation s financial reporting. Management conducted an evaluation of the effectiveness of internal control over financial reporting based on criteria established in  Internal Control  
Integrated Framework  issued by the Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of the Treadway Commission. Based on this evaluation, management concluded that Exxon Mobil Corporation s internal control over financial reporting was effective as of
December 31, 2008.      PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP, an independent registered public accounting firm, audited the effectiveness of the
Corporation s internal control over financial reporting as of December 31, 2008, as stated in their report included in the Financial Section of this report.       

Rex W. Tillerson  
     
  Donald D. Humphreys  
     
  Patrick T. Mulva   
 
  Chief Executive Officer  
     
  Sr. Vice President and Treasurer  
     
  Vice President and Controller   

(Principal Financial Officer)  
     
  (Principal Accounting Officer)   
         REPORT OF INDEPENDENT REGISTERED PUBLIC ACCOUNTING FIRM

To the Shareholders of Exxon Mobil Corporation:      In our opinion, the consolidated financial statements listed under Item 8 of the Form 10-K present fairly, in all material respects, the financial position of Exxon Mobil Corporation and its subsidiaries at
December 31, 2008, and 2007, and the results of their operations and their cash flows for each of the three years in the period ended December 31, 2008, in conformity with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of
America. Also in our opinion, the Corporation maintained, in all material respects, effective internal control over financial reporting as of December 31, 2008, based on criteria established in  Internal Control   Integrated
Framework  issued by the Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of the Treadway Commission (COSO). The Corporation s management is responsible for these financial statements, for maintaining effective internal control over financial reporting
and for its assessment of the effectiveness of internal control over financial reporting, included in Management s Report on Internal Control over Financial Reporting. Our responsibility is to express opinions on these financial statements and
on the Corporation s internal control over financial reporting based on our integrated audits. We conducted our audits in accordance with the standards of the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board (United States). Those standards require
that we plan and perform the audits to obtain reasonable assurance about whether the financial statements are free of material misstatement and whether effective internal control over financial reporting was maintained in all material respects. Our
audits of the financial statements included examining, on a test basis, evidence supporting the amounts and disclosures in the financial statements, assessing the accounting principles used and significant estimates made by management, and
evaluating the overall financial statement presentation. Our audit of internal control over financial reporting included obtaining an understanding of internal control over financial reporting, assessing the risk that a material weakness exists, and
testing and evaluating the design and operating effectiveness of internal control based on the assessed risk. Our audits also included performing such other procedures as we considered necessary in the circumstances. We believe that our audits
provide a reasonable basis for our opinions.         
   56   

Table of Contents  

  Index to Financial Statements  

   As discussed in Note 18 to the consolidated financial statements, the Corporation changed its method of accounting for
uncertainty in income taxes in 2007.      A company s internal control over financial reporting is a process designed to provide reasonable assurance
regarding the reliability of financial reporting and the preparation of financial statements for external purposes in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles. A company s internal control over financial reporting includes those
policies and procedures that (i) pertain to the maintenance of records that, in reasonable detail, accurately and fairly reflect the transactions and dispositions of the assets of the company; (ii) provide reasonable assurance that
transactions are recorded as necessary to permit preparation of financial statements in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles, and that receipts and expenditures of the company are being made only in accordance with authorizations
of management and directors of the company; and (iii) provide reasonable assurance regarding prevention or timely detection of unauthorized acquisition, use, or disposition of the company s assets that could have a material effect on the
financial statements.      Because of its inherent limitations, internal control over financial reporting may not prevent or detect misstatements. Also,
projections of any evaluation of effectiveness to future periods are subject to the risk that controls may become inadequate because of changes in conditions, or that the degree of compliance with the policies or procedures may deteriorate.

Dallas, Texas      February 27, 2009         
   57   

Table of Contents  

  Index to Financial Statements  

      CONSOLIDATED STATEMENT OF INCOME        

(2)   
   Other income for 2008 includes a $62 million gain from the sale of a non-U.S. investment and a related $143 million foreign exchange loss.          The information in the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements is an integral part of these statements.          
   58   

Table of Contents  

  Index to Financial Statements  

      CONSOLIDATED BALANCE SHEET        
     The information in the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements is an integral part of these statements.  
        
   59   

Table of Contents  

  Index to Financial Statements  

      CONSOLIDATED STATEMENT OF SHAREHOLDERS  EQUITY        

(1)   
   Includes pre-FAS 158 adoption change in minimum pension liability.          The information in the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements is an integral part of these statements.          
   60   

Table of Contents  

  Index to Financial Statements  

      CONSOLIDATED STATEMENT OF CASH FLOWS        
     The information in the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements is an integral part of these statements.  
        
   61   

Table of Contents  

  Index to Financial Statements  

      NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS       The accompanying consolidated financial statements and the supporting and supplemental material are the responsibility of the management of Exxon Mobil Corporation.
     The Corporation s principal business is energy, involving the worldwide exploration, production, transportation and sale of crude oil
and natural gas (Upstream) and the manufacture, transportation and sale of petroleum products (Downstream). The Corporation is also a major worldwide manufacturer and marketer of petrochemicals (Chemical) and participates in electric power
generation (Upstream).      The preparation of financial statements in conformity with U.S. Generally Accepted Accounting Principles (GAAP)
requires management to make estimates that affect the reported amounts of assets, liabilities, revenues and expenses and the disclosure of contingent assets and liabilities. Actual results could differ from these estimates. Prior years  data
has been reclassified in certain cases to conform to the 2008 presentation basis.         1. Summary of Accounting Policies
       Principles of Consolidation.  The Consolidated Financial Statements include the accounts of those subsidiaries owned directly or indirectly with
more than 50 percent of the voting rights held by the Corporation and for which other shareholders do not possess the right to participate in significant management decisions. They also include the Corporation s share of the undivided interest
in certain upstream assets and liabilities.      Amounts representing the Corporation s percentage interest in the underlying net assets
of other subsidiaries and less-than-majority-owned companies in which a significant ownership percentage interest is held are included in  Investments, advances and long-term receivables  the Corporation s share of the net income of
these companies is included in the Consolidated Statement of Income caption  Income from equity affiliates.  The Corporation s share of the cumulative foreign exchange translation adjustment for equity method investments is reported
in the Consolidated Statement of Shareholders  Equity. Evidence of loss in value that might indicate impairment of investments in companies accounted for on the equity method is assessed to determine if such evidence represents a loss in value
of the Corporation s investment that is other than temporary. Examples of key indicators include a history of operating losses, a negative earnings and cash flow outlook, significant downward revisions to oil and gas reserves, and the financial
condition and prospects for the investee s business segment or geographic region. If evidence of an other than temporary loss in fair value below carrying amount is determined, an impairment is recognized. In the absence of market prices for
the investment, discounted cash flows are used to assess fair value.       Revenue Recognition.  The Corporation generally sells crude oil, natural gas
and petroleum and chemical products under short-term agreements at prevailing market prices. In some cases (e.g., natural gas), products may be sold under long-term agreements, with periodic price adjustments. In all cases, revenues are recognized
when the products are delivered, which occurs when the customer has taken title and has assumed the risks and rewards of ownership, prices are fixed or determinable and collectibility is reasonably assured.      Revenues from the production of natural gas properties in which the Corporation has an interest with other producers are recognized on the basis of the
Corporation s net working interest. Differences between actual production and net working interest volumes are not significant.      Purchases and sales of inventory with the same counterparty that are entered into in contemplation of one another are combined and recorded as exchanges measured at the book value of the item sold.          Sales-Based Taxes.  The Corporation reports sales, excise and value-added taxes on sales transactions on a gross basis in the Consolidated Statement of Income
(included in both revenues and costs). This gross reporting basis is footnoted on the Consolidated Statement of Income.          Derivative
Instruments.  The Corporation makes limited use of derivative instruments. The Corporation does not engage in speculative derivative activities or derivative trading activities nor does it use derivatives with leveraged features. When the
Corporation does enter into derivative transactions, it is to offset exposures associated with interest rates, foreign currency exchange rates and hydrocarbon prices that arise from existing assets, liabilities and transactions.      The gains and losses resulting from changes in the fair value of derivatives are recorded in income. In some cases, the Corporation designates
derivatives as fair value hedges, in which case the gains and losses are offset in income by the gains and losses arising from changes in the fair value of the underlying hedged items.       Inventories.  Crude oil, products and merchandise inventories are carried at the lower of current market value or cost (generally determined under the last-in, first-out method   LIFO). Inventory costs
include expenditures and other charges (including depreciation) directly and indirectly incurred in bringing the inventory to its existing condition and location. Selling expenses and general and administrative expenses are reported as period costs
and excluded from inventory cost. Inventories of materials and supplies are valued at cost or less.       Property, Plant and Equipment.  Depreciation,
depletion and amortization, based on cost less estimated salvage value of the asset, are primarily determined under either the unit-of-production method or the straight-line method, which is based on estimated asset service life taking obsolescence
into consideration. Maintenance and repairs, including planned major maintenance, are expensed as incurred. Major renewals and improvements are capitalized and the assets replaced are retired.      Interest costs incurred to finance expenditures during the construction phase of multiyear projects are capitalized as part of the historical cost of
acquiring the constructed assets. The project construction phase commences with the development of the detailed engineering design and ends when the constructed assets are ready for their intended use. Capitalized interest costs are included in
property, plant and equipment and are depreciated over the service life of the related assets.      The Corporation uses the  successful
efforts  method to account for its exploration and production activities. Under this method, costs are accumulated on a field-by-field basis with certain exploratory expenditures and exploratory dry holes being expensed as incurred. Costs of
productive wells and development dry holes are capitalized and amortized on the unit-of-production method.         
   62   

Table of Contents  

  Index to Financial Statements  

   The Corporation carries as an asset exploratory well costs when the well has found a sufficient quantity
of reserves to justify its completion as a producing well and where the Corporation is making sufficient progress assessing the reserves and the economic and operating viability of the project. Exploratory well costs not meeting these criteria are
charged to expense.      Acquisition costs of proved properties are amortized using a unit-of-production method, computed on the basis of total
proved oil and gas reserves. Significant unproved properties are assessed for impairment individually and valuation allowances against the capitalized costs are recorded based on the estimated economic chance of success and the length of time that
the Corporation expects to hold the properties. The cost of properties that are not individually significant are aggregated by groups and amortized over the average holding period of the properties of the groups. The valuation allowances are
reviewed at least annually. Other exploratory expenditures, including geophysical costs, other dry hole costs and annual lease rentals, are expensed as incurred.      Unit-of-production depreciation is applied to property, plant and equipment, including capitalized exploratory drilling and development costs, associated with productive depletable extractive properties in the
Upstream segment. Unit-of-production rates are based on the amount of proved developed reserves of oil, gas and other minerals that are estimated to be recoverable from existing facilities using current operating methods.      Under the unit-of-production method, oil and gas volumes are considered produced once they have been measured through meters at custody transfer or sales
transaction points at the outlet valve on the lease or field storage tank.      Production costs are expensed as incurred. Production involves
lifting the oil and gas to the surface and gathering, treating, field processing and field storage of the oil and gas. The production function normally terminates at the outlet valve on the lease or field production storage tank. Production costs
are those incurred to operate and maintain the Corporation s wells and related equipment and facilities. They become part of the cost of oil and gas produced. These costs, sometimes referred to as lifting costs, include such items as labor
costs to operate the wells and related equipment; repair and maintenance costs on the wells and equipment; materials, supplies and energy costs required to operate the wells and related equipment; and administrative expenses related to the
production activity.      Gains on sales of proved and unproved properties are only recognized when there is no uncertainty about the recovery
of costs applicable to any interest retained or where there is no substantial obligation for future performance by the Corporation. Losses on properties sold are recognized when incurred or when the properties are held for sale and the fair value of
the properties is less than the carrying value.      Proved oil and gas properties held and used by the Corporation are reviewed for impairment
whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying amounts may not be recoverable. Assets are grouped at the lowest level for which there are identifiable cash flows that are largely independent of the cash flows of other groups
of assets.      The Corporation estimates the future undiscounted cash flows of the affected properties to judge the recoverability of carrying
amounts. Cash flows used in impairment evaluations are developed using annually updated corporate plan investment evaluation assumptions for crude oil commodity prices and foreign currency exchange rates. Annual volumes are based on individual field
production profiles, which are also updated annually. Prices for natural gas and other products are based on corporate plan assumptions developed annually by major region and also for investment evaluation purposes. Cash flow estimates for
impairment testing exclude derivative instruments.      Impairment analyses are generally based on proved reserves. Where probable reserves
exist, an appropriately risk-adjusted amount of these reserves may be included in the impairment evaluation. Impairments are measured by the amount the carrying value exceeds the fair value.       Asset Retirement Obligations and Environmental Liabilities.  The Corporation incurs retirement obligations for certain assets at the time they are installed. The
fair values of these obligations are recorded as liabilities on a discounted basis. The costs associated with these liabilities are capitalized as part of the related assets and depreciated. Over time, the liabilities are accreted for the change in
their present value.      Liabilities for environmental costs are recorded when it is probable that obligations have been incurred and the
amounts can be reasonably estimated. These liabilities are not reduced by possible recoveries from third parties and projected cash expenditures are not discounted.       Foreign Currency Translation.  The Corporation selects the functional reporting currency for its international subsidiaries based on the currency of the primary economic environment in which each subsidiary
operates. Downstream and Chemical operations primarily use the local currency. However, the U.S. dollar is used in countries with a history of high inflation (primarily in Latin America) and Singapore, which predominantly sells into the U.S. dollar
export market. Upstream operations which are relatively self-contained and integrated within a particular country, such as Canada, the United Kingdom, Norway and continental Europe, use the local currency. Some Upstream operations, primarily in
Asia, West Africa, Russia and the Middle East, use the U.S. dollar because they predominantly sell crude and natural gas production into U.S. dollar-denominated markets. For all operations, gains or losses from remeasuring foreign currency
transactions into the functional currency are included in income.       Share-Based Payments.  The Corporation awards share-based compensation to
employees in the form of restricted stock and restricted stock units. Compensation expense is measured by the market price of the restricted shares at the date of grant and is recognized in the income statement over the requisite service period of
each award. See note 14, Incentive Program, for further details.         
   63   

Table of Contents  

  Index to Financial Statements  

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS          
      2. Accounting Change for Fair Value Measurements       Effective January 1, 2008, the Corporation adopted the Financial Accounting Standards Board s (FASB) Statement No. 157 (FAS 157),  Fair Value
Measurements,  for financial assets and liabilities that are measured at fair value and nonfinancial assets and liabilities that are measured at fair value on a recurring basis. FAS 157 defines fair value, establishes a framework for measuring
fair value when an entity is required to use a fair value measure for recognition or disclosure purposes and expands the disclosures about fair value measurements. The initial application of FAS 157 is limited to the Corporation s investments
in derivative instruments and some debt and equity securities. The fair value measurements for these instruments are based on quoted prices or observable market inputs. The value of these instruments is immaterial to the Corporation s financial
statements, and the related gains or losses from periodic measurement at fair value are de minimis. Effective January 1, 2009, FAS 157 is applicable to all nonfinancial assets and liabilities that are measured at fair value.         3. Miscellaneous Financial Information       Research and development costs totaled $847 million in 2008, $814 million in 2007 and $733 million in 2006.      Net income included
before-tax aggregate foreign exchange transaction gains of $54 million, $229 million and $278 million in 2008, 2007 and 2006, respectively.      In 2008, 2007 and 2006, net income included gains of $341 million, $327 million and $401 million, respectively, attributable to the combined effects of LIFO inventory accumulations and draw-downs. The aggregate replacement cost of
inventories was estimated to exceed their LIFO carrying values by $10.0 billion and $25.4 billion at December 31, 2008, and 2007, respectively.      Crude oil, products and merchandise as of year-end 2008 and 2007 consist of the following:       
       4. Cash Flow Information       The Consolidated Statement of Cash Flows provides information about changes in cash and cash equivalents. Highly liquid investments with maturities of three months or
less when acquired are classified as cash equivalents.      The  Net (gain) on asset sales  in net cash provided by operating
activities on the Consolidated Statement of Cash Flows includes before-tax gains from the sale of a natural gas transportation business in Germany and other producing properties in the Upstream and Downstream assets and investments in 2008; from the
sale of producing properties in the Upstream and of Downstream assets and investments in 2007; and from the sale of Upstream producing properties in 2006. These gains are reported in  Other income  on the Consolidated Statement of Income.
     The restriction on $4.6 billion of cash and cash equivalents was released in 2007 following an Alabama Supreme Court judgment in
ExxonMobil s favor.       
          5.
Additional Working Capital Information        
    On December 31, 2008, unused credit lines for short-term financing totaled approximately $5.3 billion. Of
this total, $2.7 billion support commercial paper programs under terms negotiated when drawn. The weighted-average interest rate on short-term borrowings outstanding at December 31, 2008, and 2007, was 5.7 percent and 5.5 percent, respectively.
        
   64   

Table of Contents  

  Index to Financial Statements  

      6. Equity Company Information       The summarized financial information below includes amounts related to certain less-than-majority-owned companies and majority-owned subsidiaries where minority
shareholders possess the right to participate in significant management decisions (see note 1). These companies are primarily engaged in crude production, natural gas marketing and refining operations in North America; natural gas production,
natural gas distribution and downstream operations in Europe; crude production in Kazakhstan; and liquefied natural gas (LNG) operations in Qatar. Also included are several power generation, refining, petrochemical/lubes manufacturing and chemical
ventures. The Corporation s ownership in these ventures is in the form of shares in corporate joint ventures as well as interests in partnerships. The share of total equity company revenues from sales to ExxonMobil consolidated companies was 21
percent, 23 percent and 24 percent in the years 2008, 2007 and 2006, respectively.       
    A list of significant equity companies as of December 31, 2008, together with the Corporation s
percentage ownership interest, is detailed below:       

Percentage Ownership Interest      
 
     Upstream    

Aera Energy LLC   
      
  48   
 
    BEB Erdgas und Erdoel GmbH   
      
  50   
 
    Cameroon Oil Transportation Company S.A.   
      
  41   
 
    Castle Peak Power Company Limited   
      
  60   
 
    Golden Pass LNG Terminal LLC   
      
  18   
 
    Nederlandse Aardolie Maatschappij B.V.   
      
  50   
 
    Qatar Liquefied Gas Company Limited   
      
  10   
 
    Qatar Liquefied Gas Company Limited II   
      
  24   
 
    Ras Laffan Liquefied Natural Gas Company Limited   
      
  25   
 
    Ras Laffan Liquefied Natural Gas Company Limited II   
      
  30   
 
    Ras Laffan Liquefied Natural Gas Company Limited (3)   
      
  30   
 
    South Hook LNG Terminal Company Limited   
      
  24   
 
    Tengizchevroil, LLP   
      
  25   
 
    Terminale GNL Adriatico S.r.l .   
      
  45   

Downstream    

Chalmette Refining, LLC   
      
  50   
 
    Fujian Refining   Petrochemical Co. Ltd.   
      
  25   
 
    Saudi Aramco Mobil Refinery Company Ltd.   
      
  50   

Chemical    

Al-Jubail Petrochemical Company   
      
  50   
 
    Infineum Holdings B.V.   
      
  50   
 
    Saudi Yanbu Petrochemical Co.   
      
  50   
       
   65   

Table of Contents  

  Index to Financial Statements  

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS          
      7. Investments, Advances and Long-Term Receivables        
       8. Property, Plant and Equipment and Asset Retirement Obligations        
    In the Upstream segment, depreciation is generally on a unit-of-production basis, so depreciable life will vary by
field. In the Downstream segment, investments in refinery and lubes basestock manufacturing facilities are generally depreciated on a straight-line basis over a 25-year life and service station buildings and fixed improvements over a 20-year life.
In the Chemical segment, investments in process equipment are generally depreciated on a straight-line basis over a 20-year life.      Accumulated depreciation and depletion totaled $149,499 million at the end of 2008 and $159,471 million at the end of 2007. Interest capitalized in 2008, 2007 and 2006 was $510 million, $557 million and $530 million, respectively.
      Asset Retirement Obligations       The Corporation incurs
retirement obligations for its upstream assets. The fair values of these obligations are recorded as liabilities on a discounted basis, which is typically at the time the assets are installed. The costs associated with these liabilities are
capitalized as part of the related assets and depreciated as the reserves are produced. Over time, the liabilities are accreted for the change in their present value. Asset retirement obligations for downstream and chemical facilities generally
become firm at the time the facilities are permanently shut down and dismantled. These obligations may include the costs of asset disposal and additional soil remediation. However, these sites have indeterminate lives based on plans for continued
operations and as such, the fair value of the conditional legal obligations cannot be measured, since it is impossible to estimate the future settlement dates of such obligations.         The following table summarizes the activity in the liability for asset retirement obligations:

66   

Table of Contents  

  Index to Financial Statements  

      9. Accounting for Suspended Exploratory Well Costs       In accounting for suspended exploratory well costs, the Corporation utilizes Financial Accounting Standards Board Staff Position FAS 19-1 (FSP 19-1),  Accounting for
Suspended Well Costs.  FSP 19-1 amended Statement of Financial Accounting Standards No. 19 (FAS 19),  Financial Accounting and Reporting by Oil and Gas Producing Companies,  to permit the continued capitalization of exploratory
well costs beyond one year after the well is completed if (a) the well found a sufficient quantity of reserves to justify its completion as a producing well and (b) the entity is making sufficient progress assessing the reserves and the
economic and operating viability of the project.      The following two tables provide details of the changes in the balance of suspended
exploratory well costs as well as an aging summary of those costs.      Change in capitalized suspended exploratory well costs:   
       
   67   

Table of Contents  

  Index to Financial Statements  

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS          
   Of the 50 projects that have exploratory well costs capitalized for a period greater than 12 months as of
December 31, 2008, 31 projects have drilling in the preceding 12 months or exploratory activity planned in the next two years, while the remaining 19 projects are those with completed exploratory activity progressing toward development. The
table below provides additional detail for those 19 projects, which total $313 million.       

Country/Project   
      
   Dec. 31, 2008   
      
   Years Wells Drilled   
      
   Comment    

(millions         of dollars)     

Australia   

East Pilchard   
      
  $7  
      
  2001  
      
  Gas field near Kipper/Tuna development, awaiting capacity in existing/planned
infrastructure.   
 
    Canada   

Hibernia   
      
  30  
      
  2006  
      
  Progressing development plan and regulatory approvals for tieback to Hibernia gravity-based
structure.   
 
    Indonesia   

Natuna   
      
  118  
      
  1981 - 1983    
      
  Submitted plan of development and communicated intent to enter next phase of development to the
government in 2008; development activity under way while continuing discussions with the government on contract terms.   
 
    Kazakhstan   

Aktote   
      
  40  
      
  2003 - 2004    
      
  Declarations involving field commerciality filed with Kazakhstan government in 2008; progressing
commercialization and field development studies.   
 
      Kairan   
      
  53  
      
  2004 - 2007    
      
  Declarations involving field commerciality filed with Kazakhstan government in 2008; progressing
commercialization and field development studies.   
 
    Nigeria   

Etoro-Isobo   
      
  9  
      
  2002  
      
  Offshore satellite development which will tie back to a planned production
facility.   
 
      Other (4 projects)   
      
  12  
      
  2001 - 2002    
      
  Actively pursuing development of several additional offshore satellite discoveries which will tie
back to existing/planned production facilities.   
 
    Norway   

H-North   
      
  13  
      
  2007  
      
  Discovery near existing facilities in Fram area; evaluating development options.   
 
    United Kingdom   

Carrack West   
      
  6  
      
  2001  
      
  Planned tieback to Carrack production facility; awaiting capacity.   
 
      Phyllis   
      
  7  
      
  2004  
      
  Progressing unitization and joint development with nearby Barbara discovery.   
 
    Other   

Various (6 projects)   
      
  18  
      
  1979 - 2007    
      
  Projects primarily awaiting capacity in existing or planned infrastructure.   
 
    Total   2008 (19 projects)   
      
  $313  

68   

Table of Contents  

  Index to Financial Statements  

      10. Leased Facilities       At December 31, 2008, the Corporation and its consolidated subsidiaries held noncancelable operating charters and leases covering drilling equipment, tankers, service stations and other properties with minimum
undiscounted lease commitments totaling $11,188 million as indicated in the table. Estimated related rental income from noncancelable subleases is $155 million.       
    Net rental expenses under both cancelable and noncancelable operating leases incurred during 2008, 2007 and 2006
were as follows:       
       11. Earnings Per Share        
       
   69   

Table of Contents  

  Index to Financial Statements  

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS          
      12. Financial Instruments and Derivatives       The fair value of financial instruments is determined by reference to various market data and other valuation techniques as appropriate. The only category of financial
instruments where the difference between fair value and recorded book value is of significance is long-term debt. The estimated fair value of total long-term debt, including capitalized lease obligations, at December 31, 2008, and 2007, was
$7.6 billion and $7.9 billion, respectively, as compared to recorded book values of $7.0 billion and $7.2 billion.      The Corporation s
size, strong capital structure, geographic diversity and the complementary nature of the Upstream, Downstream and Chemical businesses reduce the Corporation s enterprise-wide risk from changes in interest rates, currency rates and commodity
prices. As a result, the Corporation makes limited use of derivatives to mitigate the impact of such changes. The Corporation does not engage in speculative derivative activities or derivative trading activities nor does it use derivatives with
leveraged features. The Corporation maintains a system of controls that includes the authorization, reporting and monitoring of derivative activity. The Corporation s limited derivative activities pose no material credit or market risks to
ExxonMobil s operations, financial condition or liquidity.      The estimated fair value of derivatives outstanding and recorded on the
balance sheet was a net receivable of $118 million and $31 million at year-end 2008 and 2007, respectively. This is the amount that the Corporation would have received from third parties if these derivatives had been settled in the open market. The
Corporation recognized a before-tax gain of $89 million, $66 million and $397 million related to derivatives during 2008, 2007 and 2006, respectively.      The fair value of derivatives outstanding at year-end 2008 and gain recognized during the year are immaterial in relation to the Corporation s year-end cash balance of $31.4 billion, total assets of $228.1
billion or net income for the year of $45.2 billion.         13. Long-Term Debt       At December 31, 2008, long-term debt consisted of $6,662 million due in U.S. dollars and $363 million representing the U.S. dollar equivalent at year-end exchange
rates of amounts payable in foreign currencies. These amounts exclude that portion of long-term debt, totaling $368 million, which matures within one year and is included in current liabilities. The amounts of long-term debt maturing, together with
sinking fund payments required, in each of the four years after December 31, 2009, in millions of dollars, are: 2010   $306, 2011   $301, 2012   $2,433 and 2013   $135. At December 31, 2008, the Corporation s
unused long-term credit lines were not material.      Summarized long-term debt at year-end 2008 and 2007 are shown in the table below:

(1)   
   Additional information is provided for this subsidiary on the following pages.      

70   

Table of Contents  

  Index to Financial Statements  

    Condensed consolidating financial information related to guaranteed securities issued by subsidiaries    
  Exxon Mobil Corporation has fully and unconditionally guaranteed the deferred interest debentures due 2012 ($1,925 million long-term debt at December 31, 2008)
and the debt securities due 2009 to 2011 ($26 million long-term and $13 million short-term) of SeaRiver Maritime Financial Holdings, Inc.      SeaRiver Maritime Financial Holdings, Inc. is a 100-percent-owned subsidiary of Exxon Mobil Corporation.      The following condensed
consolidating financial information is provided for Exxon Mobil Corporation, as guarantor, and for SeaRiver Maritime Financial Holdings, Inc., as issuer, as an alternative to providing separate financial statements for the issuer. The accounts of
Exxon Mobil Corporation and SeaRiver Maritime Financial Holdings, Inc. are presented utilizing the equity method of accounting for investments in subsidiaries.       
       
   71   

Table of Contents  

  Index to Financial Statements  

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS          

72   

Table of Contents  

  Index to Financial Statements  

    Condensed consolidating financial information related to guaranteed securities issued by subsidiaries    

73   

Table of Contents  

  Index to Financial Statements  

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS          

74   

Table of Contents  

  Index to Financial Statements  

    Condensed consolidating financial information related to guaranteed securities issued by subsidiaries    
   
       14. Incentive Program       The 2003 Incentive Program provides for grants of stock options, stock appreciation rights (SARs), restricted stock and other forms of award. Awards may be granted to
eligible employees of the Corporation and those affiliates at least 50 percent owned. Outstanding awards are subject to certain forfeiture provisions contained in the program or award instrument. The maximum number of shares of stock that may be
issued under the 2003 Incentive Program is 220 million. Awards that are forfeited or expire, or are settled in cash, do not count against this maximum limit. The 2003 Incentive Program does not have a specified term. New awards may be made until the
available shares are depleted, unless the Board terminates the plan early. At the end of 2008, remaining shares available for award under the 2003 Incentive Program were 161,718 thousand.      As under earlier programs, options and SARs may be granted at prices not less than 100 percent of market value on the date of grant and have a maximum
life of 10 years. Most of the options and SARs normally first become exercisable one year following the date of grant. All remaining stock options and SARs outstanding were granted prior to 2002.      Long-term incentive awards totaling 10,116 thousand, 10,226 thousand and 10,187 thousand of restricted (nonvested) common stock and
restricted (nonvested) common stock units were granted in 2008, 2007 and 2006, respectively. These shares are issued to employees from treasury stock. The total compensation expense is recognized over the requisite service period. The units that are
settled in cash are recorded as liabilities and their changes in fair value are recognized over the vesting period. During the applicable restricted periods, the shares may not be sold or transferred and are subject to forfeiture. The majority of
the awards have graded vesting periods, with 50 percent of the shares in each award vesting after three years and the remaining 50 percent vesting after seven years. A small number of awards granted to certain senior executives have vesting periods
of five years for 50 percent of the award and of 10 years or retirement, whichever occurs later, for the remaining 50 percent of the award.         
   75   

Table of Contents  

  Index to Financial Statements  

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS          
   The Corporation has purchased shares in the open market and through negotiated transactions to offset shares issued
in conjunction with benefit plans and programs. Purchases may be discontinued at any time without prior notice.      In 2002, the Corporation
began issuing restricted stock as share-based compensation in lieu of stock options. Compensation expense for these awards is based on the price of the stock at the date of grant and has been recognized in income over the requisite service period,
which is the same method of accounting as under FAS 123R. Prior to 2002, the Corporation issued stock options as share-based compensation and since these awards vested prior to the effective date of FAS 123R, they continue to be accounted for by the
method prescribed in APB 25,  Accounting for Stock Issued to Employees.  Under this method, compensation expense for awards granted in the form of stock options is measured at the intrinsic value of the options (the difference between the
market price of the stock and the exercise price of the options) on the date of grant. Since these two prices were the same on the date of grant, no compensation expense has been recognized in income for these awards.      The following tables summarize information about restricted stock and restricted stock units for the year ended December 31, 2008.       
     
    As of December 31, 2008, there was $2,014 million of unrecognized compensation cost related to the nonvested
restricted awards. This cost is expected to be recognized over a weighted-average period of 4.6 years. The compensation cost charged against income for the restricted stock and restricted units was $648 million, $590 million and $527 million for
2008, 2007 and 2006, respectively. The income tax benefit recognized in income related to this compensation expense was $75 million, $81 million and $72 million for the same periods, respectively. The fair value of shares and units vested in 2008,
2007 and 2006 was $438 million, $581 million and $310 million, respectively. Cash payments of $25 million, $29 million and $18 million for vested restricted stock units settled in cash were made in 2008, 2007 and 2006, respectively.         
   76   

Table of Contents  

  Index to Financial Statements  

   Changes that occurred in stock options in 2008 are summarized below (shares in thousands):       
    No compensation expense was recognized for stock options in 2008, 2007 and 2006, as all remaining outstanding
stock options were granted prior to 2002 and are fully vested. Cash received from stock option exercises was $753 million, $1,079 million and $1,173 million for 2008, 2007 and 2006, respectively. The cash tax benefit realized for the options
exercised was $273 million, $304 million and $416 million for 2008, 2007 and 2006, respectively. The aggregate intrinsic value of stock options exercised in 2008, 2007 and 2006 was $894 million, $1,359 million and $1,304 million, respectively. The
intrinsic value for the balance of outstanding stock options at December 31, 2008, was $2,336 million.         15. Litigation and
Other Contingencies        Litigation       A variety of claims
have been made against ExxonMobil and certain of its consolidated subsidiaries in a number of pending lawsuits. Management has regular litigation reviews, including updates from corporate and outside counsel, to assess the need for accounting
recognition or disclosure of these contingencies. The Corporation accrues an undiscounted liability for those contingencies where the incurrence of a loss is probable and the amount can be reasonably estimated. If a range of amounts can be
reasonably estimated and no amount within the range is a better estimate than any other amount, then the minimum of the range is accrued. The Corporation does not record liabilities when the likelihood that the liability has been incurred is
probable but the amount cannot be reasonably estimated or when the liability is believed to be only reasonably possible or remote. For contingencies where an unfavorable outcome is reasonably possible and which are significant, the Corporation
discloses the nature of the contingency and, where feasible, an estimate of the possible loss. ExxonMobil will continue to defend itself vigorously in these matters. Based on a consideration of all relevant facts and circumstances, the Corporation
does not believe the ultimate outcome of any currently pending lawsuit against ExxonMobil will have a materially adverse effect upon the Corporation s operations or financial condition.      A number of lawsuits, including class actions, were brought in various courts against Exxon Mobil Corporation and certain of its subsidiaries relating to
the accidental release of crude oil from the tanker Exxon Valdez in 1989. All the compensatory claims have been resolved and paid. All of the punitive damage claims were consolidated in the civil trial that began in 1994. On June 25, 2008, the
U.S. Supreme Court vacated the $2.5 billion punitive damage award previously entered by the Ninth Circuit Court of Appeals and remanded the case to the Circuit Court with an instruction that punitive damages in the case may not exceed a maximum
amount of $507.5 million. Exxon Mobil Corporation recorded an after-tax charge of $290 million in the second quarter of 2008, reflecting the maximum amount of the punitive damages. The parties have filed briefs in the Ninth Circuit Court of Appeals
on the issue of post-judgment interest and recovery of costs. Exxon Mobil Corporation recorded an after-tax charge of $170 million in the third quarter of 2008, reflecting its estimate of the resolution of those issues.         
   77   

Table of Contents  

  Index to Financial Statements  

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS          
    Other Contingencies       The Corporation and certain of its consolidated subsidiaries were contingently liable at December 31, 2008, for $7,847 million, primarily relating to guarantees for notes, loans and performance under contracts. Included in this amount
were guarantees by consolidated affiliates of $6,102 million, representing ExxonMobil s share of obligations of certain equity companies.       
    Additionally, the Corporation and its affiliates have numerous long-term sales and purchase
commitments in their various business activities, all of which are expected to be fulfilled with no adverse consequences material to the Corporation s operations or financial condition. Unconditional purchase obligations as defined by
accounting standards are those long-term commitments that are noncancelable or cancelable only under certain conditions, and that third parties have used to secure financing for the facilities that will provide the contracted goods or services.

(1)   
   Undiscounted obligations of $2,271 million mainly pertain to pipeline throughput agreements and include $1,651 million of obligations to equity companies. The present value of
these commitments, which excludes imputed interest of $423 million, totaled $1,848 million.         In accordance with a
nationalization decree issued by Venezuela s president in February 2007, by May 1, 2007, a subsidiary of the Venezuelan National Oil Company (PdVSA) assumed the operatorship of the Cerro Negro Heavy Oil Project. This Project had been
operated and owned by ExxonMobil affiliates holding a 41.67 percent ownership interest in the Project. The decree also required conversion of the Cerro Negro Project into a  mixed enterprise  and an increase in PdVSA s or one of its
affiliate s ownership interest in the Project, with the stipulation that if ExxonMobil refused to accept the terms for the formation of the mixed enterprise within a specified period of time, the government would  directly assume the
activities  carried out by the joint venture. ExxonMobil refused to accede to the terms proffered by the government, and on June 27, 2007, the government expropriated ExxonMobil s 41.67 percent interest in the Cerro Negro Project.
     On September 6, 2007, affiliates of ExxonMobil filed a Request for Arbitration with the International Centre for Settlement of
Investment Disputes. An affiliate of ExxonMobil has also filed an arbitration under the rules of the International Chamber of Commerce against PdVSA and a PdVSA affiliate for breach of their contractual obligations under certain Cerro Negro Project
agreements. At this time, the net impact of this matter on the Corporation s consolidated financial results cannot be reasonably estimated. However, the Corporation does not expect the resolution to have a material effect upon the
Corporation s operations or financial condition. ExxonMobil s remaining net book investment in Cerro Negro producing assets is about $750 million.         
   78   

Table of Contents  

  Index to Financial Statements  

      16. Pension and Other Postretirement Benefits       The benefit obligations and plan assets associated with the Corporation s principal benefit plans are measured on December 31.       

(1)   
   Benefit payments for funded and unfunded plans.      
    For U.S. plans, the discount rate is determined by constructing a portfolio of high-quality, noncallable bonds with cash flows that match estimated outflows for benefit
payments. For major non-U.S. plans, the discount rate is determined by using bond portfolios with an average maturity approximating that of the liabilities or spot yield curves, both of which are constructed using high-quality,
local-currency-denominated bonds.      The measurement of the accumulated postretirement benefit obligation assumes a health care cost trend
rate of 7.5 percent for 2009 that declines to 4.5 percent by 2014. A one-percentage-point increase in the health care cost trend rate would increase service and interest cost by $52 million and the postretirement benefit obligation by $530 million.
A one-percentage-point decrease in the health care cost trend rate would decrease service and interest cost by $42 million and the post-retirement benefit obligation by $441 million.       

(1)   
   Benefit payments for funded plans.            
   79   

Table of Contents  

  Index to Financial Statements  

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS          
   The funding levels of all qualified pension plans are in compliance with standards set by applicable law or
regulation. As shown in the table below, certain smaller U.S. pension plans and a number of non-U.S. pension plans are not funded because local tax conventions and regulatory practices do not encourage funding of these plans. All defined benefit
pension obligations, regardless of the funding status of the underlying plans, are fully supported by the financial strength of the Corporation or the respective sponsoring affiliate.       
    Effective December 31, 2006, Exxon Mobil Corporation implemented FASB Statement No. 158,
 Employers  Accounting for Defined Benefit Pension and Other Postretirement Plans,  which requires an employer to recognize the overfunded or underfunded status of a defined benefit postretirement plan as an asset or liability in its
statement of financial position and to recognize changes in that funded status in the year in which the changes occur through other comprehensive income.       

(1)   
   Fair value of assets less benefit obligation shown on the preceding page.            
   80   

Table of Contents  

  Index to Financial Statements  

Costs for defined contribution plans were $309 million, $287 million and $260 million in 2008, 2007 and 2006,
respectively.      A summary of the change in accumulated other comprehensive income is shown in the table below:       
       
   81   

Table of Contents  

  Index to Financial Statements  

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS          
   The long-term expected rate of return on funded assets for each plan is established by developing a forward-looking,
long-term return assumption for each asset class, taking into account factors such as the expected real return for the specific asset class and inflation. A single, long-term rate of return is then calculated as the weighted average of the target
asset allocation and the long-term return assumption for each asset class. The majority of pension assets are invested in equities, as illustrated in the table below, which shows asset allocation.       
    The Corporation s investment strategy for benefit plan assets reflects a long-term view, a careful assessment
of the risks inherent in various asset classes and broad diversification to reduce the risk of the portfolio. The Corporation primarily invests in funds that follow an index-based strategy to achieve its objectives of diversifying risk while
minimizing costs. The funds hold ExxonMobil stock only to the extent necessary to replicate the relevant equity index. Studies are periodically conducted to establish the preferred target asset allocation. The target asset allocation for equity
securities of 75 percent for the U.S. benefit plans and 64 percent for non-U.S. plans reflects the long-term nature of the liability. The balance of the funds is largely targeted to debt securities.      A summary of pension plans with an accumulated benefit obligation in excess of plan assets is shown in the table below:       

(1)  
   The Corporation amortizes the net balance of actuarial losses/(gains) as a component of net periodic benefit cost over the average remaining service period of active plan
participants.      

(2)   
   The Corporation amortizes prior service cost on a straight-line basis as permitted under FAS 87 and FAS 106.            
   82   

Table of Contents  

  Index to Financial Statements  

17. Disclosures about Segments and Related Information       The Upstream, Downstream and Chemical functions best define the operating segments of the business that are reported separately. The factors used to identify these
reportable segments are based on the nature of the operations that are undertaken by each segment. The Upstream segment is organized and operates to explore for and produce crude oil and natural gas. The Downstream segment is organized and operates
to manufacture and sell petroleum products. The Chemical segment is organized and operates to manufacture and sell petrochemicals. These segments are broadly understood across the petroleum and petrochemical industries.      These functions have been defined as the operating segments of the Corporation because they are the segments (1) that engage in business activities
from which revenues are earned and expenses are incurred; (2) whose operating results are regularly reviewed by the Corporation s chief operating decision maker to make decisions about resources to be allocated to the segment and assess
its performance; and (3) for which discrete financial information is available.      Earnings after income tax include special items, and
transfers are at estimated market prices. Special items included in 2008 after-tax earnings were a $1,620 million gain in Non-U.S. Upstream on the sale of a natural gas transportation business in Germany and special charges of $460 million in the
corporate and financing segment related to the Valdez litigation. There were no special items in 2007. After-tax earnings in 2006 included a $410 million special gain in the corporate and financing segment from the recognition of tax benefits
related to historical investments in non-U.S. assets.      Interest expense includes non-debt-related interest expense of $498 million, $290
million and $535 million in 2008, 2007 and 2006, respectively. The increase of $208 million in 2008 primarily reflects an interest provision related to the Valdez litigation. The decrease of $245 million in 2007 primarily reflects changes in
tax-related interest.      In corporate and financing activities, interest revenue relates to interest earned on cash deposits and marketable
securities.         
   83   

Table of Contents  

  Index to Financial Statements  

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS          

84   

Table of Contents  

  Index to Financial Statements  

      18. Income, Sales-Based and Other Taxes        
    All other taxes and duties include taxes reported in production and manufacturing and selling, general and
administrative (SG A) expenses. The above provisions for deferred income taxes include net credits for the effect of changes in tax laws and rates of $300 million in 2008, $258 million in 2007 and $169 million in 2006.      Income taxes (charged)/credited directly to shareholders  equity were:       
    The reconciliation between income tax expense and a theoretical U.S. tax computed by applying a rate of 35 percent
for 2008, 2007 and 2006 is as follows:       
       
   85   

Table of Contents  

  Index to Financial Statements  

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS          
   Deferred income taxes reflect the impact of temporary differences between the amount of assets and liabilities
recognized for financial reporting purposes and such amounts recognized for tax purposes.      Deferred tax liabilities/(assets) are comprised
of the following at December 31:       
    Deferred income tax (assets) and liabilities are included in the balance sheet as shown below. Deferred income tax
(assets) and liabilities are classified as current or long term consistent with the classification of the related temporary difference   separately by tax jurisdiction.       
    The Corporation had $62 billion of indefinitely reinvested, undistributed earnings from subsidiary companies
outside the U.S. Unrecognized deferred taxes on remittance of these funds are not expected to be material.       Unrecognized Tax Benefits       Effective January 1, 2007, the Corporation adopted the Financial Accounting Standards Board s Interpretation No. 48 (FIN 48),  Accounting for
Uncertainty in Income Taxes.  Upon the adoption of FIN 48, the Corporation recognized a transition gain of $267 million in shareholders  equity. The gain reflected the recognition of several refund claims, partly offset by increased
liability reserves.      The Corporation is subject to income taxation in many jurisdictions around the world. Unrecognized tax benefits
reflect the difference between positions taken or expected to be taken on income tax returns and the amounts recognized in the financial statements. Resolution of the related tax positions through negotiations with the relevant tax authorities or
through litigation will take many years to complete. It is difficult to predict the timing of resolution for individual tax positions since such timing is not entirely within the control of the Corporation. However, it is reasonably possible that
resolutions could be reached with tax jurisdictions within the next 12 months that could result in a decrease of up to 25 percent in the total amount of unrecognized tax benefits. Given the long time periods involved in resolving individual tax
positions, the Corporation does not expect that the recognition of unrecognized tax benefits will have a material impact on the Corporation s effective income tax rate in any given year.      The following table summarizes the movement in unrecognized tax benefits.       
    The additions and reductions in unrecognized tax benefits shown above include effects related to net income and
shareholders  equity, and timing differences for which the ultimate deductibility is highly certain but for which there is uncertainty about the timing of such deductibility. The 2008 and 2007 changes in unrecognized tax benefits did not have a
material effect on the Corporation s net income or cash flow.      The following table summarizes the tax years that remain subject to
examination by major tax jurisdiction:       
    The Corporation classifies interest on income tax-related balances as interest expense or interest
income and classifies tax-related penalties as operating expense.      The Corporation incurred approximately $137 million and $128 million in
interest expense on income tax reserves in 2008 and 2007, respectively, and had a related interest payable of $671 million and $597 million at December 31, 2008, and 2007, respectively.         
   86   

Table of Contents  

  Index to Financial Statements  

      SUPPLEMENTAL INFORMATION ON OIL AND GAS EXPLORATION AND PRODUCTION ACTIVITIES
 (unaudited)        The results of operations for producing activities shown below are presented in accordance with Statement of Financial Accounting
Standards No. 69. As such, they do not include earnings from other activities that ExxonMobil includes in the Upstream function such as oil and gas transportation operations, oil sands operations, LNG liquefaction and transportation operations,
coal and power operations, technical services agreements, other nonoperating activities and adjustments for minority interests. These excluded amounts for both consolidated and equity companies totaled $3,834 million in 2008, $2,271 million in 2007
and $2,431 million in 2006.       
       
   87   

Table of Contents  

  Index to Financial Statements  

SUPPLEMENTAL INFORMATION ON OIL AND GAS EXPLORATION AND PRODUCTION ACTIVITIES  (unaudited)     
     
   Average sales prices have been calculated by using sales quantities from the Corporation s own production as the
divisor. Average production costs have been computed by using net production quantities for the divisor . The volumes of crude oil and natural gas liquids (NGL) production used for this computation are shown in the proved reserves table of this
report. The volumes for natural gas used for this calculation are the production volumes of natural gas available for sale and thus are different than those shown in the proved reserves table of this report due to volumes consumed or flared. The
volumes of natural gas were converted to oil-equivalent barrels based on a conversion factor of six thousand cubic feet per barrel.       

(1)   
   Production costs exclude depreciation and depletion and all taxes. Natural gas included by conversion to crude oil-equivalent.            
   88   

Table of Contents  

  Index to Financial Statements  

    Oil and Gas Exploration and Production Costs       The amounts shown for net capitalized costs of consolidated subsidiaries are $5,779 million less at year-end 2008 and $6,381 million less at year-end 2007 than the amounts reported as investments in property, plant
and equipment for the Upstream in note 8. This is due to the exclusion from capitalized costs of certain transportation and research assets and assets relating to the oil sands and LNG operations, all as required by Statement of Financial Accounting
Standards No. 19.       
       
   89   

Table of Contents  

  Index to Financial Statements  

SUPPLEMENTAL INFORMATION ON OIL AND GAS EXPLORATION AND PRODUCTION ACTIVITIES  (unaudited)     
     
    Oil and Gas Exploration and Production Costs   (continued)         The amounts reported as costs incurred include both capitalized costs and costs charged to expense during the year. Costs incurred also include new asset retirement
obligations established in the current year, as well as increases or decreases to the asset retirement obligation resulting from changes in cost estimates or abandonment date. Total consolidated costs incurred in 2008 were $15,816 million, up $3,741
million from 2007, due primarily to higher exploration and development costs. 2007 costs were $12,075 million, down $938 million from 2006, due primarily to lower development and property acquisition costs.       
       
   90   

Table of Contents  

  Index to Financial Statements  

    Oil and Gas Reserves       The following information describes changes during the years and balances of proved oil and gas reserves at year-end 2006, 2007 and 2008.      The definitions used are in accordance with the Securities and Exchange Commission s Rule 4-10 (a) of Regulation S-X, paragraphs (2) through (2)iii, (3) and (4).      Proved oil and gas reserves are the estimated quantities of crude oil, natural gas and natural gas liquids that geological and engineering data
demonstrate with reasonable certainty to be recoverable in future years from known reservoirs under existing economic and operating conditions, i.e., prices and costs as of the date the estimate is made. Prices include consideration of changes in
existing prices provided only by contractual arrangements but not on escalations based upon future conditions. In some cases, substantial new investments in additional wells and related facilities will be required to recover these proved reserves.
     The year-end reserves volumes as well as the reserves change categories shown in the following tables are calculated using
December 31 prices and costs. These reserves quantities are also used in calculating unit-of-production depreciation rates and in calculating the standardized measure of discounted net cash flow. We understand that the use of December 31
prices and costs is intended to provide a point in time measure to calculate reserves and to enhance comparability between companies. However, the use of year-end prices for reserves estimation introduces short-term price volatility into the
process, which is inconsistent with the long-term nature of the upstream business, since annual adjustments are required based on prices occurring on a single day. As a result, the use of prices from a single date is not relevant to the investment
decisions made by the Corporation.      Revisions can include upward or downward changes in previously estimated volumes of proved reserves for
existing fields due to the evaluation or re-evaluation of (1) already available geologic, reservoir or production data, (2) new geologic, reservoir or production data or (3) changes in year-end prices and costs that are used in the
determination of reserves. This category can also include significant changes in either development strategy or production equipment/facility capacity.      Proved reserves include 100 percent of each majority-owned affiliate s participation in proved reserves and ExxonMobil s ownership percentage of the proved reserves of equity companies, but exclude royalties
and quantities due others. Gas reserves exclude the gaseous equivalent of liquids expected to be removed from the gas on leases, at field facilities and at gas processing plants. These liquids are included in net proved reserves of crude oil and
natural gas liquids.      In the proved reserves tables, consolidated reserves and equity company reserves are reported separately. However,
the Corporation does not view equity company reserves any differently than those from consolidated companies.      Reserves reported under
production sharing and other nonconcessionary agreements are based on the economic interest as defined by the specific fiscal terms in the agreement. The percentage of conventional liquids and natural gas proved reserves (consolidated subsidiaries
plus equity companies) at year-end 2008 that were associated with production sharing contract arrangements was 22 percent of liquids, 16 percent of natural gas and 19 percent on an oil-equivalent basis (gas converted to oil-equivalent at 6 billion
cubic feet = 1 million barrels).      Net proved developed reserves are those volumes that are expected to be recovered through existing
wells with existing equipment and operating methods. Undeveloped reserves are those volumes that are expected to be recovered as a result of future investments to drill new wells, to recomplete existing wells and/or to install facilities to collect
and deliver the production from existing and future wells.      Crude oil and natural gas liquids and natural gas production quantities shown
are the net volumes withdrawn from ExxonMobil s oil and gas reserves. The natural gas quantities differ from the quantities of gas delivered for sale by the producing function as reported in the Operating Summary due to volumes consumed or
flared and inventory changes.         
   91   

Table of Contents  

  Index to Financial Statements  

SUPPLEMENTAL INFORMATION ON OIL AND GAS EXPLORATION AND PRODUCTION ACTIVITIES  (unaudited)     

(2)   
   Includes 425 million barrels of proved reserves in Venezuela which were expropriated. See note 15, Litigation and Other Contingencies.            
   92   

Table of Contents  

  Index to Financial Statements  

    Oil and Gas Reserves   (continued)          

(2)   
   Includes 219 billion cubic feet of proved reserves in Venezuela which were expropriated. See note 15, Litigation and Other Contingencies.            
   93   

Table of Contents  

  Index to Financial Statements  

SUPPLEMENTAL INFORMATION ON OIL AND GAS EXPLORATION AND PRODUCTION ACTIVITIES  (unaudited)     

INFORMATION ON CANADIAN OIL SANDS PROVEN RESERVES NOT INCLUDED ABOVE       In addition to conventional liquids and natural
gas proved reserves, ExxonMobil has significant interests in proven oil sands reserves in Canada associated with the Syncrude and Kearl projects. For internal management purposes, ExxonMobil views these reserves and their development as an integral
part of total upstream operations. However, for financial reporting purposes, these reserves are required to be reported separately from the oil and gas reserves.      The oil sands reserves are not considered in the standardized measure of discounted future cash flows for conventional oil and gas reserves, which is on the following page.       

94   

Table of Contents  

  Index to Financial Statements  

    Standardized Measure of Discounted Future Cash Flows       As required by the Financial Accounting Standards Board, the standardized measure of discounted future net cash flows is computed by applying year-end prices, costs and legislated tax rates and a discount factor of 10
percent to net proved reserves. The standardized measure includes costs for future dismantlement, abandonment and rehabilitation obligations. The Corporation believes the standardized measure does not provide a reliable estimate of the
Corporation s expected future cash flows to be obtained from the development and production of its oil and gas properties or of the value of its proved oil and gas reserves. The standardized measure is prepared on the basis of certain
prescribed assumptions including year-end prices, which represent a single point in time and therefore may cause significant variability in cash flows from year to year as prices change.       

95   

Table of Contents  

  Index to Financial Statements  

SUPPLEMENTAL INFORMATION ON OIL AND GAS EXPLORATION AND PRODUCTION ACTIVITIES  (unaudited)     
     
    Change in Standardized Measure of Discounted Future Net Cash Flows Relating to Proved Oil and Gas Reserves  

(1)   
   Includes impact of expropriation of proved reserves in Venezuela. See note 15, Litigation and Other Contingencies.            
   96   

Table of Contents  

  Index to Financial Statements  

      OPERATING SUMMARY  (unaudited)         
     Operating statistics include 100 percent of operations of majority-owned subsidiaries; for other companies,
crude production, gas, petroleum product and chemical prime product sales include ExxonMobil s ownership percentage and refining throughput includes quantities processed for ExxonMobil. Net production excludes royalties and quantities due
others when produced, whether payment is made in kind or cash.        

(1)   
   Gas converted to oil-equivalent at 6 million cubic feet = 1 thousand barrels.          
       
   97   

Table of Contents  

  Index to Financial Statements  

      SIGNATURES              Pursuant to the requirements of Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly
caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned, thereunto duly authorized.           

EXXON MOBIL CORPORATION    

By:   
     
    /s/    REX W. TILLERSON     

(Rex W. Tillerson,     Chairman of the Board)    
 
         Dated February 27, 2009                
   POWER OF ATTORNEY              Each person whose signature appears below constitutes and appoints Beverley A. Babcock, Richard E. Gutman and Robert N. Schleckser and each of them,
his or her true and lawful attorneys-in-fact and agents, with full power of substitution and resubstitution, for him or her and in his or her name, place and stead, in any and all capacities, to sign any and all amendments to this Annual Report on
Form 10-K, and to file the same, with all exhibits thereto, and other documents in connection therewith, with the Securities and Exchange Commission, granting unto said attorneys-in-fact and agents, and each of them, full power and authority to do
and perform each and every act and thing requisite and necessary to be done, as fully to all intents and purposes as he or she might or could do in person, hereby ratifying and confirming all that said attorneys-in-fact and agents or any of them, or
their or his or her substitute or substitutes, may lawfully do or cause to be done by virtue hereof.                     Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, this
report has been signed below by the following persons on behalf of the registrant and in the capacities and on the dates indicated.          

/s/    REX W. TILLERSON              (Rex W. Tillerson)   
      
    Chairman of the Board      (Principal Executive Officer)   
     
  February 27, 2009   

/s/    MICHAEL J. BOSKIN              (Michael J. Boskin)   
      
  Director  
     
  February 27, 2009   

/s/    LARRY R. FAULKNER              (Larry R. Faulkner)   
      
  Director  
     
  February 27, 2009   
       
   98   

Table of Contents  

  Index to Financial Statements  

99   

Table of Contents  

  Index to Financial Statements  

      INDEX TO EXHIBITS          
       
   100   

Table of Contents  

  Index to Financial Statements  

    INDEX TO EXHIBITS (continued)          

*  
     
  Compensatory plan or arrangement required to be identified pursuant to Item 15(a)(3) of this Annual Report on Form 10-K.              The registrant has not filed with this report copies of the instruments
defining the rights of holders of long-term debt of the registrant and its subsidiaries for which consolidated or unconsolidated financial statements are required to be filed. The registrant agrees to furnish a copy of any such instrument to the
Securities and Exchange Commission upon request.         
   101   

<EX-10.(III).(F.3)>
 2
 dex10iiif3.htm
 FORM OF RESTRICTED STOCK GRANT LETTER FOR NON-EMPLOYEE DIRECTORS

Form of restricted stock grant letter for non-employee directors 

EXHIBIT 10(iii)(f.3)        

Exxon Mobil Corporation   
      
  David S. Rosenthal   
 
    5959 Las Colinas Boulevard   
      
  Vice President, Investor Relations   
 
    Irving, TX 75039   
      
  and Secretary   
           ExxonMobil 
           January 5, 2009            [Name of Non-employee Director]            I am pleased to inform you that on January 2, 2009, you were granted 2,500 shares of
restricted stock under Exxon Mobil Corporation s 2004 Non-Employee Director Restricted Stock Plan (the  Plan ) and in accordance with the Board s standing resolution regarding grants under the Plan. This letter summarizes key
terms of your award and is qualified by reference to the Plan. You should refer to the text of the Plan for a detailed description of the terms and conditions of your award. Copies of the Plan have been previously distributed to you and are also
available on request to me at any time.            The restricted stock has been
registered in your name and will be held in book-entry form by the Corporation s agent during the restricted period. As the owner of record, you have the right to vote the shares and receive cash dividends. However, during the restricted period
the shares may not be sold, assigned, transferred, pledged, or otherwise disposed of or encumbered, and your restricted stock account will be subject to stop transfer instructions.            The restricted period for this award began at the time of grant. The restricted period will expire when you leave the Board after reaching
mandatory retirement age (currently, age 72) or by reason of death. If you leave the Board before reaching mandatory retirement age, your restricted stock will be forfeited unless the Board determines to lift the restrictions at that time.
           If and when the restricted period expires,
shares will be delivered to or for your account free of restrictions.            You are
entitled to designate a beneficiary for your restricted stock account. Please contact Jerry Miller at (972) 444-4004 for the necessary form should you wish to do so.       
     By accepting this award you agree to all its terms and conditions, including the restrictions on transfer and events of forfeiture.            Additional information concerning your award, including information on the tax consequences
of your award and certain additional information required by the Securities Act of 1933, is also enclosed with this letter.            Any questions that you may have concerning the Plan or this award should be addressed to me.          

Sincerely,    

(D. S. Rosenthal)    
 
         Enclosures   

</EX-10.(III).(F.3)>

<EX-12>
 3
 dex12.htm
 COMPUTATION OF RATIO OF EARNINGS TO FIXED CHARGES

Computation of ratio of earnings to fixed charges 

EXHIBIT 12          
   EXXON MOBIL CORPORATION              COMPUTATION OF RATIO OF EARNINGS TO FIXED CHARGES          
                 Note:   

(1)  
     
  The provision for income taxes and the fixed charges include Exxon Mobil Corporation s share of 50 percent-owned companies and majority-owned subsidiaries that are not
consolidated.     

</EX-12>

<EX-14>
 4
 dex14.htm
 CODE OF ETHICS AND BUSINESS CONDUCT

Code of Ethics and Business Conduct 

EXHIBIT 14        CODE OF ETHICS AND BUSINESS CONDUCT        Ethics Policy       The policy of Exxon Mobil Corporation is to comply with all governmental laws, rules, and regulations applicable to its business.      The Corporation s Ethics policy does not stop there. Even where the law is permissive, the Corporation chooses the course of highest integrity. Local customs,
traditions, and mores differ from place to place, and this must be recognized. But honesty is not subject to criticism in any culture. Shades of dishonesty simply invite demoralizing and reprehensible judgments. A well-founded reputation for
scrupulous dealing is itself a priceless corporate asset.      The Corporation cares how results are obtained, not just that they are obtained. Directors,
officers, and employees should deal fairly with each other and with the Corporation s suppliers, customers, competitors, and other third parties.      The
Corporation expects compliance with its standard of integrity throughout the organization and will not tolerate employees who achieve results at the cost of violation of law or who deal unscrupulously. The Corporation s directors and officers
support, and expect the Corporation s employees to support, any employee who passes up an opportunity or advantage that would sacrifice ethical standards.      It is the Corporation s policy that all transactions will be accurately reflected in its books and records. This, of course, means that falsification of books and records and the creation or maintenance of any off-the-record bank
accounts are strictly prohibited. Employees are expected to record all transactions accurately in the Corporation s books and records, and to be honest and forthcoming with the Corporation s internal and independent auditors.   
  The Corporation expects candor from employees at all levels and adherence to its policies and internal controls. One harm which results when employees conceal
information from higher management or the auditors is that other employees think they are being given a signal that the Corporation s policies and internal controls can be ignored when they are inconvenient. That can result in corruption and
demoralization of an organization. The Corporation s system of management will not work without honesty, including honest bookkeeping, honest budget proposals, and honest economic evaluation of projects.      It is the Corporation s policy to make full, fair, accurate, timely, and understandable disclosure in reports and documents that the Corporation files with the
United States Securities and Exchange Commission, and in other public communications. All employees are responsible for reporting material information known to them to higher management so that the information will be available to senior executives
responsible for making disclosure decisions.         
   1   

Conflicts of Interest Policy       It is the policy of Exxon Mobil Corporation that directors, officers, and employees are expected to avoid any actual or apparent conflict between their own personal interests and the interests of the Corporation. A conflict of interest can
arise when a director, officer, or employee takes actions or has personal interests that may interfere with his or her objective and effective performance of work for the Corporation. For example, directors, officers, and employees are expected to
avoid actual or apparent conflict in dealings with suppliers, customers, competitors, and other third parties. Directors, officers, and employees are expected to refrain from taking for themselves opportunities discovered through their use of
corporate assets or through their positions with the Corporation. Directors, officers, and employees are expected to avoid securities transactions based on material, nonpublic information learned through their positions with the Corporation.
Directors, officers, and employees are expected to refrain from competing with the Corporation.       Corporate Assets Policy       It is the policy of Exxon Mobil Corporation that directors, officers, and employees are expected to protect the assets of the Corporation and use them efficiently to
advance the interests of the Corporation. Those assets include tangible assets and intangible assets, such as confidential information of the Corporation. No director, officer, or employee should use or disclose at any time during or subsequent to
employment or other service to the Corporation, without proper authority or mandate, confidential information obtained from any source in the course of the Corporation s business. Examples of confidential information include nonpublic
information about the Corporation s plans, earnings, financial forecasts, business forecasts, discoveries, competitive bids, technologies, and personnel.       Directorships Policy       It is the policy of Exxon Mobil Corporation to restrict the holding by officers and employees of directorships in
nonaffiliated, for-profit organizations and to prohibit the acceptance by any officer or employee of such directorships that would involve a conflict of interest with, or interfere with, the discharge of the officer s or employee s duties
to the Corporation. Any officer or employee may hold directorships in nonaffiliated, nonprofit organizations, unless such directorships would involve a conflict of interest with, or interfere with, the discharge of the officer s or
employee s duties to the Corporation, or obligate the Corporation to provide support to the nonaffiliated, nonprofit organizations. Officers and employees may serve as directors of affiliated companies and such service may be part of their
normal work assignments.      All directorships in public companies held by directors of the Corporation are subject to review and approval by the Board of
Directors of the Corporation. In all other cases, directorships in nonaffiliated, for-profit organizations are subject to review and approval by the management of the Corporation, as directed by the Chairman.         
   2   

Procedures and Open Door Communication       Exxon Mobil Corporation encourages employees to ask questions, voice concerns, and make appropriate suggestions regarding the business practices of the Corporation. Employees are expected to report promptly to
management suspected violations of law, the Corporation s policies, and the Corporation s internal controls, so that management can take appropriate corrective action. The Corporation promptly investigates reports of suspected violations
of law, policies, and internal control procedures.      Management is ultimately responsible for the investigation of and appropriate response to reports of
suspected violations of law, policies, and internal control procedures. Internal Audit has primary responsibility for investigating violations of the Corporation s internal controls, with assistance from others, depending on the subject matter
of the inquiry. The persons who investigate suspected violations are expected to exercise independent and objective judgment.      Normally, an employee should
discuss such matters with the employee s immediate supervisor. Each supervisor is expected to be available to subordinates for that purpose. If an employee is dissatisfied following review with the employee s immediate supervisor, that
employee is encouraged to request further reviews, in the presence of the supervisor or otherwise. Reviews should continue to the level of management appropriate to resolve the issue.      Depending on the subject matter of the question, concern, or suggestion, each employee has access to alternative channels of communication, for example, the Controller s Department; Internal Audit; the Human
Resources Department; the Law Department; the Safety, Health and Environment Department; the Security Department; and the Treasurer s Department.      Suspected violations of law or the Corporation s policies involving a director or executive officer, as well as any concern regarding questionable accounting or auditing matters, should be referred directly to the General Auditor of
the Corporation. The Board Affairs Committee of the Board of Directors of the Corporation will initially review all issues involving directors or executive officers, and will then refer all such issues to the Board of Directors of the Corporation.
     Employees may also address communications to individual nonemployee directors or to the nonemployee directors as a group by writing them at Exxon Mobil
Corporation, 5959 Las Colinas Boulevard, Irving, Texas 75039, U.S.A., or such other addresses as the Corporation may designate and publish from time to time.      Employees wishing to make complaints without identifying themselves may do so by telephoning 1-800-963-9966 or 1-972-444-1990, or by writing the Global Security Manager, Exxon Mobil Corporation, P.O. Box 142106, Irving, Texas 75014, U.S.A.,
or such other telephone numbers and addresses as the Corporation may designate and publish from time to time. All complaints to those telephone numbers and addresses concerning accounting, internal accounting controls, or auditing matters will be
referred to the Audit Committee of the Board of Directors of the Corporation.      All persons responding to employees  questions, concerns, complaints,
and suggestions are expected to use appropriate discretion regarding anonymity and confidentiality, although the preservation of anonymity and confidentiality may or may not be practical, depending on the circumstances. For example, investigations
of significant complaints typically necessitate revealing to others information about the complaint and complainant. Similarly, disclosure can result from government investigations and litigation.         
   3   

No action may be taken or threatened against any employee for asking questions, voicing concerns, or making complaints or
suggestions in conformity with the procedures described above, unless the employee acts with willful disregard of the truth.      Failure to behave honestly,
and failure to comply with law, the Corporation s policies, and the Corporation s internal controls may result in disciplinary action, up to and including separation.      No one in the Corporation has the authority to make exceptions or grant waivers to the Corporation s foundation policies. It is recognized that there will be questions about the application of the policies to
specific activities and situations. In cases of doubt, directors, officers, and employees are expected to seek clarification and guidance. In those instances where the Corporation, after review, approves an activity or situation, the Corporation is
not granting an exception or waiver but is determining that there is no policy violation. If the Corporation determines that there is or would be a policy violation, appropriate action is taken.         
   4   

</EX-14>

<EX-21>
 5
 dex21.htm
 SUBSIDIARIES OF THE REGISTRANT

Subsidiaries of the registrant 

EXHIBIT 21        Subsidiaries of the Registrant (1), (2) and (3)   at December 31, 2008        

Percentage of       Voting Securities       Owned Directly       or Indirectly by Registrant     
      
     State or       Country of Organization      
 
    Abu Dhabi Petroleum Company Limited (5)   
      
        23.75  
      
  United Kingdom   
 
    Aera Energy LLC (5)   
      
      48.2  
      
  California   
 
    Al-Jubail Petrochemical Company (4) (5)   
      
    50  
      
  Saudi Arabia   
 
    Ampolex (CEPU) Pte Ltd   
      
  100  
      
  Singapore   
 
    Ancon Insurance Company, Inc.   
      
  100  
      
  Vermont   
 
    BEB Erdgas und Erdoel GmbH (4) (5)   
      
    50  
      
  Germany   
 
    Cameroon Oil Transportation Company S.A. (5)   
      
        41.07  
      
  Cameroon   
 
    Caspian Pipeline Consortium (5)   
      
        7.5  
      
  Russia/Kazakhstan   
 
    Castle Peak Power Company Limited (5)   
      
    60  
      
  Hong Kong   
 
    Chalmette Refining, LLC (4) (5)   
      
    50  
      
  Delaware   
 
    Esso Australia Resources Pty Ltd   
      
  100  
      
  Australia   
 
    Esso Austria GmbH   
      
  100  
      
  Austria   
 
    Esso Chile Petrolera Limitada   
      
  100  
      
  Chile   
 
    Esso Deutschland GmbH   
      
  100  
      
  Germany   
 
    Esso Erdgas Beteiligungsgesellschaft mbH   
      
  100  
      
  Germany   
 
    Esso Exploration and Production Angola (Block 31) Limited   
      
  100  
      
  Bahamas   
 
    Esso Exploration and Production Chad Inc.   
      
  100  
      
  Delaware   
 
    Esso Exploration and Production Nigeria (Deepwater) Limited   
      
  100  
      
  Nigeria   
 
    Esso Exploration and Production Nigeria (Offshore East) Limited   
      
  100  
      
  Nigeria   
 
    Esso Exploration and Production Nigeria Limited   
      
  100  
      
  Nigeria   
 
    Esso Exploration and Production UK Limited   
      
  100  
      
  United Kingdom   
 
    Esso Exploration Angola (Block 15) Limited   
      
  100  
      
  Bahamas   
 
    Esso Exploration Angola (Block 17) Limited   
      
  100  
      
  Bahamas   
 
    Esso Highlands Limited   
      
  100  
      
  Papua New Guinea   
 
    Esso Holding Company Singapore Limited   
      
  100  
      
  Bahamas   
 
    Esso Ireland Limited   
      
  100  
      
  Ireland   
 
    Esso Italiana S.r.l.   
      
  100  
      
  Italy   
 
    Esso Malaysia Berhad   
      
    65  
      
  Malaysia   
 
    Esso Natuna Ltd.   
      
  100  
      
  Bermuda   
 
    Esso Nederland B.V.   
      
  100  
      
  Netherlands   
 
    Esso Norge AS   
      
  100  
      
  Norway   
 
    Esso Petrolera Argentina Sociedad de Responsabilidad Limitada   
      
  100  
      
  Argentina   
 
    Esso Petroleum Company, Limited   
      
  100  
      
  United Kingdom   
 
    Esso Pipeline Investments Limited   
      
  100  
      
  Bahamas   
 
    Esso Raffinage S.A.F.   
      
        82.89  
      
  France   
 
    Esso Schweiz GmbH   
      
  100  
      
  Switzerland   
 
    Esso Societe Anonyme Francaise   
      
        82.89  
      
  France   
 
    Esso (Thailand) Public Company Limited   
      
        65.99  
      
  Thailand   
 
    Esso Trading Company of Abu Dhabi   
      
  100  
      
  Delaware   
 
    Exxon Azerbaijan Caspian Sea Limited   
      
  100  
      
  Bahamas   
 
    Exxon Azerbaijan Limited   
      
  100  
      
  Bahamas   
 
    Exxon Chemical Arabia Inc.   
      
  100  
      
  Delaware   
 
    Exxon Luxembourg Holdings LLC   
      
  100  
      
  Delaware   
 
    Exxon Mobile Bay Limited Partnership   
      
  100  
      
  Delaware   
 
    Exxon Neftegas Limited   
      
  100  
      
  Bahamas   
 
    Exxon Overseas Corporation   
      
  100  
      
  Delaware   
       
   - 1 -   

Percentage of       Voting Securities       Owned Directly       or Indirectly by Registrant     
      
     State or       Country of Organization      

Exxon Overseas Investment Corporation   
      
  100  
      
  Delaware   
 
    ExxonMobil Abu Dhabi Offshore Petroleum Company Limited   
      
  100  
      
  Bahamas   
 
    ExxonMobil Alaska Production Inc.   
      
  100  
      
  Delaware   
 
    ExxonMobil Asia Pacific Pte. Ltd.   
      
  100  
      
  Singapore   
 
    ExxonMobil Aviation International Limited   
      
  100  
      
  United Kingdom   
 
    ExxonMobil Belgium Finance   
      
  100  
      
  Belgium   
 
    ExxonMobil Canada Energy   
      
  100  
      
  Canada   
 
    ExxonMobil Canada Finance Company   
      
  100  
      
  Canada   
 
    ExxonMobil Canada Hibernia Company Ltd.   
      
  100  
      
  Canada   
 
    ExxonMobil Canada Ltd.   
      
  100  
      
  Canada   
 
    ExxonMobil Canada Properties   
      
  100  
      
  Canada   
 
    ExxonMobil Canada Resources Company   
      
  100  
      
  Canada   
 
    ExxonMobil Capital N.V.   
      
  100  
      
  Netherlands   
 
    ExxonMobil Catalyst Technologies LLC   
      
  100  
      
  Delaware   
 
    ExxonMobil Central Europe Holding GmbH   
      
  100  
      
  Germany   
 
    ExxonMobil Chemical Films Europe, Inc.   
      
  100  
      
  Delaware   
 
    ExxonMobil Chemical France S.A.R.L.   
      
        99.77  
      
  France   
 
    ExxonMobil Chemical Holland B.V.   
      
  100  
      
  Netherlands   
 
    ExxonMobil Chemical Limited   
      
  100  
      
  United Kingdom   
 
    ExxonMobil Chemical Operations Private Limited   
      
  100  
      
  Singapore   
 
    ExxonMobil China Petroleum   Petrochemical Company Limited   
      
  100  
      
  Bahamas   
 
    ExxonMobil de Colombia S.A.   
      
        99.64  
      
  Colombia   
 
    ExxonMobil Deepwater Holdings B.V.   
      
  100  
      
  Netherlands   
 
    ExxonMobil Delaware Holdings Inc.   
      
  100  
      
  Delaware   
 
    ExxonMobil Development Company   
      
  100  
      
  Delaware   
 
    ExxonMobil Egypt (S.A.E.)   
      
  100  
      
  Egypt   
 
    ExxonMobil Energy Limited   
      
  100  
      
  Hong Kong   
 
    ExxonMobil Exploration and Production Malaysia Inc.   
      
  100  
      
  Delaware   
 
    ExxonMobil Exploration and Production Norway AS   
      
  100  
      
  Norway   
 
    ExxonMobil Finance Company Limited   
      
  100  
      
  United Kingdom   
 
    ExxonMobil Financial Services B.V.   
      
  100  
      
  Netherlands   
 
    ExxonMobil Gas Marketing Deutschland GmbH   
      
    100   
      
  Germany   
 
    ExxonMobil Gas Marketing Deutschland GmbH   Co. KG   
      
    50  
      
  Germany   
 
    ExxonMobil Gas Marketing Europe Limited   
      
  100  
      
  United Kingdom   
 
    ExxonMobil Global Services Company   
      
  100  
      
  Delaware   
 
    ExxonMobil Holding Company Holland LLC   
      
  100  
      
  Delaware   
 
    ExxonMobil Holding Norway AS   
      
  100  
      
  Norway   
 
    ExxonMobil Hong Kong Limited   
      
  100  
      
  Hong Kong   
 
    ExxonMobil Hungary Finance Kft.   
      
  100  
      
  Hungary   
 
    ExxonMobil International Holdings Inc.   
      
  100  
      
  Delaware   
 
    ExxonMobil International Services   
      
  100  
      
  Luxembourg   
 
    ExxonMobil Italiana Gas S.r.l.   
      
  100  
      
  Italy   
 
    ExxonMobil Kazakhstan Inc.   
      
  100  
      
  Bahamas   
 
    ExxonMobil Kazakhstan Ventures Inc.   
      
  100  
      
  Delaware   
 
    ExxonMobil Luxembourg   
      
  100  
      
  Luxembourg   
 
    ExxonMobil Luxembourg UK   
      
  100  
      
  Luxembourg   
 
    ExxonMobil Malaysia Sdn Bhd   
      
  100  
      
  Malaysia   
 
    ExxonMobil Marine Limited   
      
  100  
      
  United Kingdom   
 
    ExxonMobil Middle East Gas Marketing Limited   
      
  100  
      
  Bahamas   
 
    ExxonMobil Oil   Gas Investments Limited   
      
  100  
      
  Bahamas   
 
    ExxonMobil Oil Corporation   
      
  100  
      
  New York   
       
   - 2 -   

Percentage of       Voting Securities       Owned Directly       or Indirectly by Registrant     
      
     State or       Country of Organization      

ExxonMobil Oil Indonesia Inc.   
      
  100  
      
  Cayman Islands   
 
    ExxonMobil Pensions-Verwaltungsgesellschaft mbH   
      
  100  
      
  Germany   
 
    ExxonMobil Permian Basin Inc.   
      
  100  
      
  Delaware   
 
    ExxonMobil Petroleum   Chemical   
      
  100  
      
  Belgium   
 
    ExxonMobil Petroleum   Chemical Holdings Inc.   
      
  100  
      
  Delaware   
 
    ExxonMobil Pipeline Company   
      
  100  
      
  Delaware   
 
    ExxonMobil Production Deutschland GmbH   
      
  100  
      
  Germany   
 
    ExxonMobil Production Norway Inc.   
      
  100  
      
  Delaware   
 
    ExxonMobil Qatargas Inc.   
      
  100  
      
  Delaware   
 
    ExxonMobil Qatargas (II) Limited   
      
  100  
      
  Bahamas   
 
    ExxonMobil Qatargas (II) Surety Corporation   
      
  100  
      
  Delaware   
 
    ExxonMobil Qatargas (II) Terminal Company Limited   
      
  100  
      
  Bahamas   
 
    ExxonMobil Ras Laffan (III) Limited   
      
  100  
      
  Bahamas   
 
    ExxonMobil Rasgas Inc.   
      
  100  
      
  Delaware   
 
    ExxonMobil Research and Engineering Company   
      
  100  
      
  Delaware   
 
    ExxonMobil Sales and Supply LLC   
      
  100  
      
  Delaware   
 
    ExxonMobil Southwest Holdings Inc.   
      
  100  
      
  Delaware   
 
    ExxonMobil Yugen Kaisha   
      
  100  
      
  Japan   
 
    Fina Antwerp Olefins N.V. (5)   
      
    35  
      
  Belgium   
 
    Fujian Refining   Petrochemical Co. Ltd. (5)   
      
    25  
      
  China   
 
    Golden Pass LNG Terminal Investments LLC   
      
  100  
      
  Delaware   
 
    Golden Pass LNG Terminal LLC (5)   
      
        17.6  
      
  Delaware   
 
    Imperial Oil Limited   
      
        69.6  
      
  Canada   
 
    Imperial Oil (an Ontario General Partnership)   
      
        69.6  
      
  Canada   
 
    Imperial Oil Resources (an Alberta limited partnership)   
      
        69.6  
      
  Canada   
 
    Imperial Oil Resources Limited   
      
        69.6  
      
  Canada   
 
    Imperial Oil Resources N.W.T. Limited   
      
        69.6  
      
  Canada   
 
    Imperial Oil Resources Ventures Limited   
      
        69.6  
      
  Canada   
 
    Infineum Holdings B.V. (5)   
      
          49.96  
      
  Netherlands   
 
    Kyokuto Petroleum Industries, Ltd. (4) (5)   
      
    50  
      
  Japan   
 
    Metroplex Barnett Shale LLC   
      
  100  
      
  Delaware   
 
    Mineraloelraffinerie Oberrhein GmbH   Co. KG (5)   
      
    25  
      
  Germany   
 
    Mobil Argentina S.A.   
      
  100  
      
  Argentina   
 
    Mobil Australia Resources Company Pty Limited   
      
  100  
      
  Australia   
 
    Mobil California Exploration   Producing Asset Company   
      
  100  
      
  Delaware   
 
    Mobil Caspian Pipeline Company   
      
  100  
      
  Delaware   
 
    Mobil Cepu Ltd.   
      
  100  
      
  Bermuda   
 
    Mobil Cerro Negro, Ltd.   
      
  100  
      
  Bahamas   
 
    Mobil Corporation   
      
  100  
      
  Delaware   
 
    Mobil Equatorial Guinea Inc.   
      
  100  
      
  Delaware   
 
    Mobil Erdgas-Erdoel GmbH   
      
  100  
      
  Germany   
 
    Mobil Exploration Indonesia Inc.   
      
  100  
      
  Cayman Islands   
 
    Mobil Exploration and Producing North America Inc.   
      
  100  
      
  Nevada   
 
    Mobil International Finance Corporation   
      
  100  
      
  Delaware   
 
    Mobil International Petroleum Corporation   
      
  100  
      
  Delaware   
 
    Mobil North Sea L.L.C.   
      
  100  
      
  Delaware   
 
    Mobil North Sea Production Limited   
      
  100  
      
  United Kingdom   
 
    Mobil Oil Australia Pty Ltd   
      
  100  
      
  Australia   
 
    Mobil Oil Exploration   Producing Southeast Inc.   
      
  100  
      
  Delaware   
 
    Mobil Oil New Zealand Limited   
      
  100  
      
  New Zealand   
 
    Mobil Petroleum Company Inc.   
      
  100  
      
  Delaware   
       
   - 3 -   

Percentage of       Voting Securities       Owned Directly       or Indirectly by Registrant     
      
     State or       Country of Organization      

Mobil Producing Nigeria Unlimited   
      
  100  
      
  Nigeria   
 
    Mobil Producing Texas   New Mexico Inc.   
      
  100  
      
  Delaware   
 
    Mobil Refining Australia Pty Ltd   
      
  100  
      
  Australia   
 
    Mobil Services (Bahamas) Limited   
      
  100  
      
  Bahamas   
 
    Mobil Yanbu Petrochemical Company Inc.   
      
  100  
      
  Delaware   
 
    Mobil Yanbu Refining Company Inc.   
      
  100  
      
  Delaware   
 
    Nederlandse Aardolie Maatschappij B.V. (4) (5)   
      
    50  
      
  Netherlands   
 
    PR Jotun DA (5)   
      
    45  
      
  Norway   
 
    Qatar Liquefied Gas Company Limited (5)   
      
    10  
      
  Qatar   
 
    Qatar Liquefied Gas Company Limited (II) (5)   
      
        24.15  
      
  Qatar   
 
    Ras Laffan Liquefied Natural Gas Company Limited (5)   
      
          24.999  
      
  Qatar   
 
    Ras Laffan Liquefied Natural Gas Company Limited (II) (5)   
      
    30  
      
  Qatar   
 
    Ras Laffan Liquefied Natural Gas Company Limited (3) (5)   
      
    30  
      
  Qatar   
 
    Samoco LLC (4)   
      
    50  
      
  Cayman Islands   
 
    Saudi Aramco Mobil Refinery Company Ltd. (4) (5)   
      
    50  
      
  Saudi Arabia   
 
    Saudi Yanbu Petrochemical Co. (4) (5)   
      
    50  
      
  Saudi Arabia   
 
    SeaRiver Maritime Financial Holdings, Inc.   
      
  100  
      
  Delaware   
 
    SeaRiver Maritime, Inc.   
      
  100  
      
  Delaware   
 
    Societa per Azioni Raffineria Padana Olii Minerali SARPOM   
      
         74.14  
      
  Italy   
 
    Societe Francaise ExxonMobil Chemical SCA   
      
         99.77  
      
  France   
 
    South Hook LNG Terminal Company Limited (5)   
      
         24.15  
      
  United Kingdom   
 
    Standard Tankers Bahamas Limited   
      
  100  
      
  Bahamas   
 
    Tengizchevroil, LLP (5)   
      
    25  
      
  Kazakhstan   
 
    Terminale GNL Adriatico S.r.l. (5)   
      
    45  
      
  Italy   
 
    TonenGeneral Sekiyu K.K.   
      
           50.037  
      
  Japan   
 
    Tonen Kagaku K.K.   
      
           50.037  
      
  Japan   
     NOTES:       

(1)  
  For the purposes of this list, if the registrant owns directly or indirectly approximately 50 percent of the voting securities of any person and approximately 50 percent of the
voting securities of such person is owned directly or indirectly by another interest, or if the registrant includes its share of net income of any other unconsolidated person in consolidated net income, such person is deemed to be a subsidiary.

(2)  
  With respect to certain companies, shares in names of nominees and qualifying shares in names of directors are included in the above percentages.     

(3)  
  The names of other subsidiaries have been omitted from the above list since considered in the aggregate, they would not constitute a significant subsidiary under Securities and
Exchange Commission Regulation S-X, Rule 1-02(w).     

(4)  
  The registrant owns directly or indirectly approximately 50 percent of the securities of this person and approximately 50 percent of the voting securities of this person is owned
directly or indirectly by another single interest.     

(5)  
  The investment in this unconsolidated person is represented by the registrant s percentage interest in the underlying net assets of such person. The accounting for these
unconsolidated persons is referred to as the equity method of accounting.           
   - 4 -   

</EX-21>

<EX-23>
 6
 dex23.htm
 CONSENT OF PRICEWATERHOUSECOOPERS LLP

Consent of PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP 

EXHIBIT 23        CONSENT OF INDEPENDENT REGISTERED PUBLIC ACCOUNTING FIRM       We hereby consent to the incorporation by reference in the
following Exxon Mobil Corporation Registration Statements on:       
    of our report dated February 27, 2009, relating to the financial statements and the effectiveness of internal
control over financial reporting, which appears in this Form 10-K.      /S/ PRICEWATERHOUSECOOPERS LLP      Dallas, Texas      February 27, 2009   

</EX-23>

<EX-31.1>
 7
 dex311.htm
 RULE 13A-14(A) CERTIFICATION BY CHIEF EXECUTIVE OFFICER

Rule 13a-14(a) Certification by Chief Executive Officer 

EXHIBIT 31.1              Certification by Rex W. Tillerson        Pursuant to Securities Exchange Act Rule 13a-14(a)             I, Rex W. Tillerson, certify that:         

1.  
     
  I have reviewed this annual report on Form 10-K of Exxon Mobil Corporation;           

2.  
     
  Based on my knowledge, this report does not contain any untrue statement of a material fact or omit to state a material fact necessary to make the statements made, in light of the
circumstances under which such statements were made, not misleading with respect to the period covered by this report;           

3.  
     
  Based on my knowledge, the financial statements, and other financial information included in this report, fairly present in all material respects the financial condition, results of
operations and cash flows of the registrant as of, and for, the periods presented in this report;           

4.  
     
  The registrant s other certifying officers and I are responsible for establishing and maintaining disclosure controls and procedures (as defined in Exchange Act Rules 13a-15(e)
and 15d-15(e)) and internal control over financial reporting (as defined in Exchange Act Rules 13a-15(f) and 15d-15(f)) for the registrant and have:           

(a)  
     
  Designed such disclosure controls and procedures, or caused such disclosure controls and procedures to be designed under our supervision, to ensure that material information
relating to the registrant, including its consolidated subsidiaries, is made known to us by others within those entities, particularly during the period in which this report is being prepared;           

(b)  
     
  Designed such internal control over financial reporting, or caused such internal control over financial reporting to be designed under our supervision, to provide reasonable
assurance regarding the reliability of financial reporting and the preparation of financial statements for external purposes in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles;           

(c)  
     
  Evaluated the effectiveness of the registrant s disclosure controls and procedures and presented in this report our conclusions about the effectiveness of the disclosure
controls and procedures, as of the end of the period covered by this report based on such evaluation; and           

(d)  
     
  Disclosed in this report any change in the registrant s internal control over financial reporting that occurred during the registrant s most recent fiscal quarter (the
registrant s fourth fiscal quarter in the case of an annual report) that has materially affected, or is reasonably likely to materially affect, the registrant s internal control over financial reporting; and           

5.  
     
  The registrant s other certifying officers and I have disclosed, based on our most recent evaluation of internal control over financial reporting, to the registrant s
auditors and the audit committee of the registrant s board of directors (or persons performing the equivalent functions):           

(a)  
     
  All significant deficiencies and material weaknesses in the design or operation of internal control over financial reporting which are reasonably likely to adversely affect the
registrant s ability to record, process, summarize and report financial information; and           

(b)  
     
  Any fraud, whether or not material, that involves management or other employees who have a significant role in the registrant s internal control over financial reporting.
             Date: February 27, 2009          

/s/    REX W. TILLERSON             
 
    Rex W. Tillerson     Chief Executive Officer    

</EX-31.1>

<EX-31.2>
 8
 dex312.htm
 RULE 13A-14(A) CERTIFICATION BY PRINCIPAL FINANCIAL OFFICER

Rule 13a-14(a) Certification by Principal Financial Officer 

EXHIBIT 31.2              Certification by Donald D. Humphreys        Pursuant to Securities Exchange Act Rule 13a-14(a)             I, Donald D. Humphreys, certify that:         

1.  
     
  I have reviewed this annual report on Form 10-K of Exxon Mobil Corporation;           

2.  
     
  Based on my knowledge, this report does not contain any untrue statement of a material fact or omit to state a material fact necessary to make the statements made, in light of the
circumstances under which such statements were made, not misleading with respect to the period covered by this report;           

3.  
     
  Based on my knowledge, the financial statements, and other financial information included in this report, fairly present in all material respects the financial condition, results of
operations and cash flows of the registrant as of, and for, the periods presented in this report;           

4.  
     
  The registrant s other certifying officers and I are responsible for establishing and maintaining disclosure controls and procedures (as defined in Exchange Act Rules 13a-15(e)
and 15d-15(e)) and internal control over financial reporting (as defined in Exchange Act Rules 13a-15(f) and 15d-15(f)) for the registrant and have:           

(a)  
     
  Designed such disclosure controls and procedures, or caused such disclosure controls and procedures to be designed under our supervision, to ensure that material information
relating to the registrant, including its consolidated subsidiaries, is made known to us by others within those entities, particularly during the period in which this report is being prepared;           

(b)  
     
  Designed such internal control over financial reporting, or caused such internal control over financial reporting to be designed under our supervision, to provide reasonable
assurance regarding the reliability of financial reporting and the preparation of financial statements for external purposes in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles;           

(c)  
     
  Evaluated the effectiveness of the registrant s disclosure controls and procedures and presented in this report our conclusions about the effectiveness of the disclosure
controls and procedures, as of the end of the period covered by this report based on such evaluation; and           

(d)  
     
  Disclosed in this report any change in the registrant s internal control over financial reporting that occurred during the registrant s most recent fiscal quarter (the
registrant s fourth fiscal quarter in the case of an annual report) that has materially affected, or is reasonably likely to materially affect, the registrant s internal control over financial reporting; and           

5.  
     
  The registrant s other certifying officers and I have disclosed, based on our most recent evaluation of internal control over financial reporting, to the registrant s
auditors and the audit committee of the registrant s board of directors (or persons performing the equivalent functions):           

(a)  
     
  All significant deficiencies and material weaknesses in the design or operation of internal control over financial reporting which are reasonably likely to adversely affect the
registrant s ability to record, process, summarize and report financial information; and           

(b)  
     
  Any fraud, whether or not material, that involves management or other employees who have a significant role in the registrant s internal control over financial reporting.
             Date: February 27, 2009

/s/    DONALD D. HUMPHREYS             
 
    Donald D. Humphreys     Senior Vice President and Treasurer     (Principal Financial Officer)    

</EX-31.2>

<EX-31.3>
 9
 dex313.htm
 RULE 13A-14(A) CERTIFICATION BY PRINCIPAL ACCOUNTING OFFICER

Rule 13a-14(a) Certification by Principal Accounting Officer 

EXHIBIT 31.3              Certification by Patrick T. Mulva        Pursuant to Securities Exchange Act Rule 13a-14(a)             I, Patrick T. Mulva, certify that:         

1.  
     
  I have reviewed this annual report on Form 10-K of Exxon Mobil Corporation;           

2.  
     
  Based on my knowledge, this report does not contain any untrue statement of a material fact or omit to state a material fact necessary to make the statements made, in light of the
circumstances under which such statements were made, not misleading with respect to the period covered by this report;           

3.  
     
  Based on my knowledge, the financial statements, and other financial information included in this report, fairly present in all material respects the financial condition, results of
operations and cash flows of the registrant as of, and for, the periods presented in this report;           

4.  
     
  The registrant s other certifying officers and I are responsible for establishing and maintaining disclosure controls and procedures (as defined in Exchange Act Rules 13a-15(e)
and 15d-15(e)) and internal control over financial reporting (as defined in Exchange Act Rules 13a-15(f) and 15d-15(f)) for the registrant and have:           

(a)  
     
  Designed such disclosure controls and procedures, or caused such disclosure controls and procedures to be designed under our supervision, to ensure that material information
relating to the registrant, including its consolidated subsidiaries, is made known to us by others within those entities, particularly during the period in which this report is being prepared;           

(b)  
     
  Designed such internal control over financial reporting, or caused such internal control over financial reporting to be designed under our supervision, to provide reasonable
assurance regarding the reliability of financial reporting and the preparation of financial statements for external purposes in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles;           

(c)  
     
  Evaluated the effectiveness of the registrant s disclosure controls and procedures and presented in this report our conclusions about the effectiveness of the disclosure
controls and procedures, as of the end of the period covered by this report based on such evaluation; and           

(d)  
     
  Disclosed in this report any change in the registrant s internal control over financial reporting that occurred during the registrant s most recent fiscal quarter (the
registrant s fourth fiscal quarter in the case of an annual report) that has materially affected, or is reasonably likely to materially affect, the registrant s internal control over financial reporting; and           

5.  
     
  The registrant s other certifying officers and I have disclosed, based on our most recent evaluation of internal control over financial reporting, to the registrant s
auditors and the audit committee of the registrant s board of directors (or persons performing the equivalent functions):           

(a)  
     
  All significant deficiencies and material weaknesses in the design or operation of internal control over financial reporting which are reasonably likely to adversely affect the
registrant s ability to record, process, summarize and report financial information; and           

(b)  
     
  Any fraud, whether or not material, that involves management or other employees who have a significant role in the registrant s internal control over financial reporting.
             Date: February 27, 2009

/s/    PATRICK T. MULVA             
 
    Patrick T. Mulva     Vice President and Controller     (Principal Accounting Officer)    

</EX-31.3>

<EX-32.1>
 10
 dex321.htm
 SECTION 1350 CERTIFICATION BY CHIEF EXECUTIVE OFFICER

Section 1350 Certification by Chief Executive Officer 

EXHIBIT 32.1              Certification of Periodic Financial Report        Pursuant to 18 U.S.C. Section 1350             For purposes of 18 U.S.C. Section 1350, as adopted pursuant to Section 906 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, the undersigned, Rex W. Tillerson, the chief executive officer of Exxon Mobil Corporation (the
 Company ), hereby certifies that, to his knowledge:            (i) the Annual Report on Form 10-K of the Company for the year ended December 31, 2008, as filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission on the date hereof (the  Report ) fully complies with the requirements of section 13(a)
or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934; and            (ii) the
information contained in the Report fairly presents, in all material respects, the financial condition and results of operations of the Company.            Date: February 27, 2009          

/s/    REX W. TILLERSON             
 
    Rex W. Tillerson     Chief Executive Officer    
 
         A signed original of this
written statement required by Section 906 has been provided to Exxon Mobil Corporation and will be retained by Exxon Mobil Corporation and furnished to the Securities and Exchange Commission or its staff upon request.   

</EX-32.1>

<EX-32.2>
 11
 dex322.htm
 SECTION 1350 CERTIFICATION BY PRINCIPAL FINANCIAL OFFICER

Section 1350 Certification by Principal Financial Officer 

EXHIBIT 32.2              Certification of Periodic Financial Report        Pursuant to 18 U.S.C. Section 1350             For purposes of 18 U.S.C. Section 1350, as adopted pursuant to Section 906 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, the undersigned, Donald D. Humphreys, the principal financial officer of Exxon Mobil Corporation (the
 Company ), hereby certifies that, to his knowledge:            (i) the Annual Report on Form 10-K of the Company for the year ended December 31, 2008, as filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission on the date hereof (the  Report ) fully complies with the requirements of section 13(a)
or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934; and            (ii) the
information contained in the Report fairly presents, in all material respects, the financial condition and results of operations of the Company.            Date: February 27, 2009          

/s/    DONALD D. HUMPHREYS             
 
    Donald D. Humphreys     Senior Vice President and Treasurer     (Principal Financial Officer)    
 
         A signed original of this
written statement required by Section 906 has been provided to Exxon Mobil Corporation and will be retained by Exxon Mobil Corporation and furnished to the Securities and Exchange Commission or its staff upon request.   

</EX-32.2>

<EX-32.3>
 12
 dex323.htm
 SECTION 1350 CERTIFICATION BY PRINCIPAL ACCOUNTING OFFICER

Section 1350 Certification by Principal Accounting Officer 

EXHIBIT 32.3              Certification of Periodic Financial Report        Pursuant to 18 U.S.C. Section 1350             For purposes of 18 U.S.C. Section 1350, as adopted pursuant to Section 906 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, the undersigned, Patrick T. Mulva, the principal accounting officer of Exxon Mobil Corporation (the
 Company ), hereby certifies that, to his knowledge:            (i) the Annual Report on Form 10-K of the Company for the year ended December 31, 2008, as filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission on the date hereof (the  Report ) fully complies with the requirements of section 13(a)
or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934; and            (ii) the
information contained in the Report fairly presents, in all material respects, the financial condition and results of operations of the Company.            Date: February 27, 2009          

/s/    PATRICK T. MULVA             
 
    Patrick T. Mulva     Vice President and Controller     (Principal Accounting Officer)    
 
         A signed original of this
written statement required by Section 906 has been provided to Exxon Mobil Corporation and will be retained by Exxon Mobil Corporation and furnished to the Securities and Exchange Commission or its staff upon request.   

</EX-32.3>

COVER
 19
 filename19.htm

SEC Letter 

Exxon Mobil Corporation      5959 Las Colinas Boulevard      Irving, Texas 75039-2298      ExxonMobil (logo)        
 
   Securities and Exchange Commission      100 F Street N.E.      Washington, D.C. 20549      Attention: EDGAR Document Control      Dear Sirs:      Transmitted with this cover note is Exxon Mobil Corporation s 2008 Annual Report on Form 10-K.      The financial
statements contained in ExxonMobil s 2008 Annual Report on Form 10-K do not reflect any material changes from the preceding year resulting from changes in any accounting principles or practices, or in the method of applying such principles or
practices. Although not material to the financial statements, below is ExxonMobil s disclosure of the adoption of FAS 157.       

-  
  Effective January 1, 2008, the Corporation adopted the Financial Accounting Standards Board s (FASB) Statement No. 157 (FAS 157),  Fair Value Measurements, 
for financial assets and liabilities that are measured at fair value and nonfinancial assets and liabilities that are measured at fair value on a recurring basis. FAS 157 defines fair value, establishes a framework for measuring fair value when an
entity is required to use a fair value measure for recognition or disclosure purposes and expands the disclosures about fair value measurements. The initial application of FAS 157 is limited to the Corporation s investments in derivative
instruments and some debt and equity securities. The fair value measurements for these instruments are based on quoted prices or observable market inputs. The value of these instruments is immaterial to the Corporation s financial statements,
and the related gains or losses from periodic measurement at fair value are de minimis.          

Sincerely,   

/s/ Beverley A. Babcock   

Beverley A. Babcock    
 
    Assistant Controller    
 
   Attachments   

