<Header>
<FileStats>
    <FileName>20120224_10-K_edgar_data_34088_0001193125-12-078102_1.txt</FileName>
    <GrossFileSize>25918019</GrossFileSize>
    <NetFileSize>410593</NetFileSize>
    <NonText_DocumentType_Chars>6283766</NonText_DocumentType_Chars>
    <HTML_Chars>7109737</HTML_Chars>
    <XBRL_Chars>7711951</XBRL_Chars>
    <XML_Chars>3576810</XML_Chars>
    <N_Tables>183</N_Tables>
    <N_Exhibits>21</N_Exhibits>
</FileStats>
<SEC-Header>
0001193125-12-078102.hdr.sgml : 20130131

<ACCEPTANCE-DATETIME>20120224160832

<PRIVATE-TO-PUBLIC>

ACCESSION NUMBER:		0001193125-12-078102

CONFORMED SUBMISSION TYPE:	10-K

PUBLIC DOCUMENT COUNT:		143

CONFORMED PERIOD OF REPORT:	20111231

FILED AS OF DATE:		20120224

DATE AS OF CHANGE:		20120224


FILER:


	COMPANY DATA:	

		COMPANY CONFORMED NAME:			EXXON MOBIL CORP

		CENTRAL INDEX KEY:			0000034088

		STANDARD INDUSTRIAL CLASSIFICATION:	PETROLEUM REFINING [2911]

		IRS NUMBER:				135409005

		STATE OF INCORPORATION:			NJ

		FISCAL YEAR END:			1231



	FILING VALUES:

		FORM TYPE:		10-K

		SEC ACT:		1934 Act

		SEC FILE NUMBER:	001-02256

		FILM NUMBER:		12638257



	BUSINESS ADDRESS:	

		STREET 1:		5959 LAS COLINAS BLVD

		CITY:			IRVING

		STATE:			TX

		ZIP:			75039-2298

		BUSINESS PHONE:		9724441000



	MAIL ADDRESS:	

		STREET 1:		5959 LAS COLINAS BLVD

		CITY:			IRVING

		STATE:			TX

		ZIP:			75039-2298



	FORMER COMPANY:	

		FORMER CONFORMED NAME:	EXXON CORP

		DATE OF NAME CHANGE:	19920703



	FORMER COMPANY:	

		FORMER CONFORMED NAME:	STANDARD OIL CO OF NEW JERSEY

		DATE OF NAME CHANGE:	19721123




</SEC-Header>
</Header>

 0001193125-12-078102.txt : 20130131

10-K
 1
 d257530d10k.htm
 FORM 10-K

Form 10-K 

Table of Contents  

  Index to Financial Statements  

    2011    
       
   UNITED STATES    
   SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION        WASHINGTON, D.C. 20549         
        FORM 10-K
                      ANNUAL REPORT PURSUANT TO SECTION 13 OR 15(d) OF    
   THE SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934    
   For the fiscal year ended December 31, 2011   
    or    
                  TRANSITION REPORT PURSUANT TO SECTION 13 OR 15(d) OF    
   THE SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934       For the transition period from                to               
     Commission File Number 1-2256       EXXON MOBIL CORPORATION         (Exact name of
registrant as specified in its charter)       

NEW JERSEY   
     
   13-5409005    
 
     (State or other jurisdiction of       incorporation or organization)    
     
     (I.R.S. Employer       Identification Number)     
     5959 LAS COLINAS BOULEVARD, IRVING, TEXAS 75039-2298    
    (Address of principal executive offices) (Zip Code)   
   (972) 444-1000         (Registrant s telephone number, including area code)        
       Securities registered
pursuant to Section 12(b) of the Act:       
    Indicate by check mark if the registrant is a well-known seasoned issuer, as defined in Rule 405 of the
Securities
Act.    Yes             No               Indicate by check mark if the registrant is not required to file reports pursuant to Section 13 or Section 15(d) of the
Act.    Yes             No               Indicate by check mark whether the registrant (1) has filed all reports required to be filed by Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 during the preceding 12 months (or for such shorter
period that the registrant was required to file such reports), and (2) has been subject to such filing requirements for the past 90 days.    Yes             No               Indicate by check mark whether the registrant has submitted electronically and posted
on its corporate Web site, if any, every Interactive Data File required to be submitted and posted pursuant to Rule 405 of Regulation S-T during the preceding 12 months (or for such shorter period that the registrant was required to submit and post
such files).    Yes             No               Indicate by check mark if disclosure of delinquent filers pursuant to Item 405 of Regulation S-K is not contained herein, and will not be contained, to the best of registrant s knowledge, in definitive
proxy or information statements incorporated by reference in Part III of this Form 10-K or any amendment to this
Form 10-K.            
  Indicate by check mark whether the registrant is a large accelerated filer, an accelerated filer, a non-accelerated filer or a smaller reporting
company. See the definitions of  large accelerated filer,   accelerated filer,  and  smaller reporting company  in Rule 12b-2 of the Exchange Act.      Large accelerated
filer                     
Accelerated filer            
  Non-accelerated filer                     Smaller reporting
company            
  Indicate by check mark whether the registrant is a shell company (as defined by Rule 12b-2 of the Act).    Yes             No               The aggregate market value of
the voting stock held by non-affiliates of the registrant on June 30, 2011, the last business day of the registrant s most recently completed second fiscal quarter, based on the closing price on that date of $81.38 on the New York Stock
Exchange composite tape, was in excess of $395 billion.       Documents Incorporated by Reference:    
       Proxy Statement for the 2012 Annual Meeting of Shareholders (Part III)    

Table of Contents  

  Index to Financial Statements  

      EXXON MOBIL CORPORATION    
   FORM 10-K        FOR THE FISCAL
YEAR ENDED DECEMBER 31, 2011        TABLE OF CONTENTS    

Page Number    

PART I   

Item 1.  
     
     Business     

1  

Item 1A.  
     
     Risk Factors     

2  

Item 1B.  
     
     Unresolved Staff Comments     

4  

Item 2.  
     
     Properties     

5  

Item 3.  
     
     Legal Proceedings     

26  

Item 4.  
     
     Mine Safety Disclosures     

26  

Executive Officers of the Registrant [pursuant to Instruction 3 to Regulation S-K, Item 
401(b)]     

27  

PART II   

Item 5.  
     
     Market for Registrant s Common Equity, Related Stockholder Matters and Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities

30  

Item 6.  
     
     Selected Financial Data     

30  

Item 7.  
     
     Management s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations     

30  

Item 7A.  
     
     Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk     

30  

Item 8.  
     
     Financial Statements and Supplementary Data     

31  

Item 9.  
     
     Changes in and Disagreements With Accountants on Accounting and Financial Disclosure     

31  

Item 9A.  
     
     Controls and Procedures     

31  

Item 9B.  
     
     Other Information     

31  

PART III   

Item 10.  
     
     Directors, Executive Officers and Corporate Governance     

32  

Item 11.  
     
     Executive Compensation     

32  

Item 12.  
     
     Security Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owners and Management and Related Stockholder Matters

32  

Item 13.  
     
     Certain Relationships and Related Transactions, and Director Independence     

33  

Item 14.  
     
     Principal Accounting Fees and Services     

33  

PART IV   

Item 15.  
     
     Exhibits, Financial Statement Schedules     

33  

Financial Section    

35  

Signatures     

109  

Index to Exhibits     

111  

Exhibit 12   Computation of Ratio of Earnings to Fixed Charges   

Exhibits 31 and 32   Certifications   

Table of Contents  

  Index to Financial Statements  

    PART I        

ITEM 1.     
   BUSINESS.         Exxon Mobil Corporation was
incorporated in the State of New Jersey in 1882. Divisions and affiliated companies of ExxonMobil operate or market products in the United States and most other countries of the world. Their principal business is energy, involving exploration for,
and production of, crude oil and natural gas, manufacture of petroleum products and transportation and sale of crude oil, natural gas and petroleum products. ExxonMobil is a major manufacturer and marketer of commodity petrochemicals, including
olefins, aromatics, polyethylene and polypropylene plastics and a wide variety of specialty products. ExxonMobil also has interests in electric power generation facilities. Affiliates of ExxonMobil conduct extensive research programs in support of
these businesses.      Exxon Mobil Corporation has several divisions and hundreds of affiliates, many with names that include
 ExxonMobil ,  Exxon ,  Esso  or  Mobil . For convenience and simplicity, in this report the terms  ExxonMobil ,  Exxon ,  Esso  and  Mobil , as well as terms like  Corporation ,  Company ,
 our ,  we  and  its , are sometimes used as abbreviated references to specific affiliates or groups of affiliates. The precise meaning depends on the context in question.   
  Throughout ExxonMobil s businesses, new and ongoing measures are taken to prevent and minimize the impact of our operations on air, water
and ground. These include a significant investment in refining infrastructure and technology to manufacture clean fuels as well as projects to monitor and reduce nitrogen oxide, sulfur oxide, and greenhouse gas emissions and expenditures for asset
retirement obligations. ExxonMobil s 2011 worldwide environmental expenditures for all such preventative and remediation steps, including ExxonMobil s share of equity company expenditures, were $4.9 billion, of which $3.2 billion
were included in expenses with the remainder in capital expenditures. The total cost for such activities is expected to remain in this range in 2012 and 2013 (with capital expenditures approximately 45 percent of the total).   
  The energy and petrochemical industries are highly competitive. There is competition within the industries and also with other industries in
supplying the energy, fuel and chemical needs of both industrial and individual consumers. The Corporation competes with other firms in the sale or purchase of needed goods and services in many national and international markets and employs all
methods of competition which are lawful and appropriate for such purposes.      Operating data and industry segment information for the
Corporation are contained in the Financial Section of this report under the following:  Quarterly Information ,  Note 17: Disclosures about Segments and Related Information  and  Operating Summary . Information on
oil and gas reserves is contained in the  Oil and Gas Reserves  part of the  Supplemental Information on Oil and Gas Exploration and Production Activities  portion of the Financial Section of this report.   
  ExxonMobil has a long-standing commitment to the development of proprietary technology. We have a wide array of research programs designed to
meet the needs identified in each of our business segments. Information on Company-sponsored research and development spending is contained in  Note 3: Miscellaneous Financial Information  of the Financial Section of this report.
ExxonMobil held approximately 10 thousand active patents worldwide at the end of 2011. For technology licensed to third parties, revenues totaled approximately $129 million in 2011. Although technology is an important contributor to the overall
operations and results of our Company, the profitability of each business segment is not dependent on any individual patent, trade secret, trademark, license, franchise or concession.   
  The number of regular employees was 82.1 thousand, 83.6 thousand and 80.7 thousand at years ended 2011, 2010 and 2009, respectively. Regular
employees are defined as active executive, management, professional, technical and wage employees who work full time or part time for the Corporation and are covered by the Corporation s benefit plans and programs. Regular employees do not
include employees of the company-operated retail sites (CORS). The number of CORS employees was 17.0 thousand, 20.1 thousand and 22.0 thousand at years ended 2011, 2010 and 2009, respectively.   
  Information concerning the source and availability of raw materials used in the Corporation s business, the extent of seasonality in the
business, the possibility of renegotiation of profits or termination of contracts at the election of governments and risks attendant to foreign operations may be found in  Item 1A Risk Factors  and  Item 2 Properties 
in this report.      ExxonMobil maintains a website at exxonmobil.com. Our annual report on Form 10-K, quarterly reports on
Form 10-Q, current reports on Form 8-K and any amendments to those reports filed or furnished pursuant to Section 13(a) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 are made available through our website as soon as reasonably practical after we
electronically file or furnish the reports to the Securities and Exchange Commission. Also available on the Corporation s website are the Company s Corporate Governance Guidelines   
         1   

Table of Contents  

  Index to Financial Statements  

and Code of Ethics and Business Conduct, as well as the charters of the audit, compensation and nominating committees of the Board of Directors. Information on our website is not incorporated
into this report.       

ITEM 1A.   
   RISK FACTORS.         ExxonMobil s financial
and operating results are subject to a variety of risks inherent in the global oil, gas, and petrochemical businesses. Many of these risk factors are not within the Company s control and could adversely affect our business, our financial and
operating results or our financial condition. These risk factors include:       Supply and Demand    
  The oil, gas, and petrochemical businesses are fundamentally commodity businesses. This means ExxonMobil s operations and earnings may be
significantly affected by changes in oil, gas and petrochemical prices and by changes in margins on refined products. Oil, gas, petrochemical and product prices and margins in turn depend on local, regional and global events or conditions that
affect supply and demand for the relevant commodity.       Economic conditions.  The demand for energy and petrochemicals correlates
closely with general economic growth rates. The occurrence of recessions or other periods of low or negative economic growth will typically have a direct adverse impact on our results. Other factors that affect general economic conditions in the
world or in a major region, such as changes in population growth rates, periods of civil unrest, government austerity programs, or currency exchange rate fluctuations, can also impact the demand for energy and petrochemicals. Sovereign debt
downgrades, defaults, inability to access debt markets due to credit or legal constraints, liquidity crises, the breakup or restructuring of fiscal, monetary, or political systems such as the European Union, and other events or conditions that
impair the functioning of financial markets and institutions also pose risks to ExxonMobil, including risks to the safety of our financial assets and to the ability of our partners and customers to fulfill their commitments to ExxonMobil.
      Other demand-related factors.  Other factors that may affect the demand for oil, gas and petrochemicals, and therefore impact
our results, include technological improvements in energy efficiency; seasonal weather patterns, which affect the demand for energy associated with heating and cooling; increased competitiveness of alternative energy sources that have so far
generally not been competitive with oil and gas without the benefit of government subsidies or mandates; and changes in technology or consumer preferences that alter fuel choices, such as toward alternative fueled vehicles.   
   Other supply-related factors.  Commodity prices and margins also vary depending on a number of factors affecting supply. For example,
increased supply from the development of new oil and gas supply sources and technologies to enhance recovery from existing sources tend to reduce commodity prices to the extent such supply increases are not offset by commensurate growth in demand.
Similarly, increases in industry refining or petrochemical manufacturing capacity tend to reduce margins on the affected products. World oil, gas, and petrochemical supply levels can also be affected by factors that reduce available supplies, such
as adherence by member countries to OPEC production quotas and the occurrence of wars, hostile actions, natural disasters, disruptions in competitors  operations, or unexpected unavailability of distribution channels that may disrupt supplies.
Technological change can also alter the relative costs for competitors to find, produce, and refine oil and gas and to manufacture petrochemicals.       Other market factors.  ExxonMobil s business results are also exposed to potential negative impacts due to changes in interest rates, inflation, and other local or regional market conditions. We
generally do not use financial instruments to hedge market exposures.       Government and Political Factors    
  ExxonMobil s results can be adversely affected by political or regulatory developments affecting our operations.   
   Access limitations.  A number of countries limit access to their oil and gas resources, or may place resources off-limits from development
altogether. Restrictions on foreign investment in the oil and gas sector tend to increase in times of high commodity prices, when national governments may have less need of outside sources of private capital. Many countries also restrict the import
or export of certain products based on point of origin.       Restrictions on doing business.  As a U.S. company, ExxonMobil is
subject to laws prohibiting U.S. companies from doing business in certain countries, or restricting the kind of business that may be conducted. Such restrictions may provide a competitive advantage to our non-U.S. competitors unless their own home
countries impose comparable restrictions.   
         2   

Table of Contents  

  Index to Financial Statements  

    Lack of legal certainty.  Some countries in which we do business lack well-developed legal
systems, or have not yet adopted clear regulatory frameworks for oil and gas development. Lack of legal certainty exposes our operations to increased risk of adverse or unpredictable actions by government officials, and also makes it more difficult
for us to enforce our contracts. In some cases these risks can be partially offset by agreements to arbitrate disputes in an international forum, but the adequacy of this remedy may still depend on the local legal system to enforce an award.
      Regulatory and litigation risks.  Even in countries with well-developed legal systems where ExxonMobil does business, we
remain exposed to changes in law (including changes that result from international treaties and accords) that could adversely affect our results, such as:       

increases in taxes or government royalty rates (including retroactive claims);      

price controls;      

changes in environmental regulations or other laws that increase our cost of compliance or reduce or delay available business opportunities (including changes
in laws related to offshore drilling operations, water use, or hydraulic fracturing);      

adoption of regulations mandating the use of alternative fuels or uncompetitive fuel components;      

adoption of government payment transparency regulations that could require us to disclose competitively sensitive commercial information, or that could cause
us to violate the non-disclosure laws of other countries; and      

government actions to cancel contracts, re-denominate the official currency, renounce or default on obligations, renegotiate terms unilaterally, or
expropriate assets.         Legal remedies available to compensate us for expropriation or other takings may be inadequate.
     We also may be adversely affected by the outcome of litigation or other legal proceedings, especially in countries such as the United
States in which very large and unpredictable punitive damage awards may occur.       Security concerns.  Successful operation of
particular facilities or projects may be disrupted by civil unrest, acts of sabotage or terrorism, and other local security concerns. Such concerns may require us to incur greater costs for security or to shut down operations for a period of time.
      Climate change and greenhouse gas restrictions.  Due to concern over the risk of climate change, a number of countries have
adopted, or are considering the adoption of, regulatory frameworks to reduce greenhouse gas emissions. These include adoption of cap and trade regimes, carbon taxes, restrictive permitting, increased efficiency standards, and incentives or mandates
for renewable energy. These requirements could make our products more expensive, lengthen project implementation times, and reduce demand for hydrocarbons, as well as shifting hydrocarbon demand toward relatively lower-carbon sources such as natural
gas. Current and pending greenhouse gas regulations may also increase our compliance costs, such as for monitoring or sequestering emissions.       Government sponsorship of alternative energy.  Many governments are providing tax advantages and other subsidies and mandates to make alternative energy sources more competitive against oil and gas.
Governments are also promoting research into new technologies to reduce the cost and increase the scalability of alternative energy sources. We are conducting our own research efforts into alternative energy, such as through sponsorship of the
Global Climate and Energy Project at Stanford University and research into hydrogen fuel cells and fuel-producing algae. Our future results may depend in part on the success of our research efforts and on our ability to adapt and apply the strengths
of our current business model to providing the competitive energy products of the future. See  Management Effectiveness  below.       Management
Effectiveness       In addition to external economic and political factors, our future business results also depend on our ability to
manage successfully those factors that are at least in part within our control. The extent to which we manage these factors will impact our performance relative to competition. For projects in which we are not the operator, we depend on the
management effectiveness of one or more co-venturers whom we do not control.       Exploration and development program.  Our ability
to maintain and grow our oil and gas production depends on the success of our exploration and development efforts. Among other factors, we must continuously improve our ability to identify the most promising resource prospects and apply our project
management expertise to bring discovered resources on line on schedule.       Project management.  The success of ExxonMobil s
Upstream, Downstream, and Chemical businesses depends on complex, long-term, capital intensive projects. These projects in turn require a high degree of project management expertise to maximize efficiency. Specific factors that can affect the
performance of major projects include our ability to: negotiate successfully with joint venturers, partners, governments, suppliers, customers, or others; model and optimize reservoir performance; develop markets for project outputs, whether through
long-term contracts or the development of effective spot markets; manage changes in operating conditions and costs, including   
         3   

Table of Contents  

  Index to Financial Statements  

costs of third party equipment or services such as drilling rigs and shipping; prevent, to the extent possible, and respond effectively to unforeseen technical difficulties that could delay
project startup or cause unscheduled project downtime; and influence the performance of project operators where ExxonMobil does not perform that role.       Operational efficiency.  An important component of ExxonMobil s competitive performance, especially given the commodity-based nature of many of our businesses, is our ability to operate efficiently,
including our ability to manage expenses and improve production yields on an ongoing basis. This requires continuous management focus, including technology improvements, cost control, productivity enhancements and regular reappraisal of our asset
portfolio.       Research and development.  To maintain our competitive position, especially in light of the technological nature of
our businesses and the need for continuous efficiency improvement, ExxonMobil s research and development organizations must be successful and able to adapt to a changing market and policy environment.   
   Safety, business controls, and environmental risk management.  Our results depend on management s ability to minimize the inherent
risks of oil, gas, and petrochemical operations, to control effectively our business activities and to minimize the potential for human error. We apply rigorous management systems and continuous focus to workplace safety and to avoiding spills or
other adverse environmental events. For example, we work to minimize spills through a combined program of effective operations integrity management, ongoing upgrades, key equipment replacements, and comprehensive inspection and surveillance.
Similarly, we are implementing cost-effective new technologies and adopting new operating practices to reduce air emissions, not only in response to government requirements but also to address community priorities. We also maintain a disciplined
framework of internal controls and apply a controls management system for monitoring compliance with this framework. Substantial liabilities and other adverse impacts could result if our management systems and controls do not function as intended.
The ability to insure against such risks is limited by the capacity of the applicable insurance markets, which may not be sufficient.   
  Business risks also include the risk of cybersecurity breaches. If our systems for protecting against cybersecurity risks prove not to be
sufficient, ExxonMobil could be adversely affected such as by having its business systems compromised, its proprietary information altered, lost or stolen, or its business operations disrupted.   
   Preparedness.  Our operations may be disrupted by severe weather events, natural disasters, human error, and similar events. For example,
hurricanes may damage our offshore production facilities or coastal refining and petrochemical plants in vulnerable areas. Our ability to mitigate the adverse impacts of these events depends in part upon the effectiveness of our rigorous disaster
preparedness and response planning, as well as business continuity planning.      Projections, estimates and descriptions of
ExxonMobil s plans and objectives included or incorporated in Items 1, 1A, 2, 7 and 7A of this report are forward-looking statements. Actual future results, including project completion dates, production rates, capital expenditures, costs and
business plans could differ materially due to, among other things, the factors discussed above and elsewhere in this report.       

ITEM 1B.   
   UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS.         As in other
years, we received comments from the SEC staff regarding our Form 10-K for 2010. We received an initial letter from the staff on July 5, 2011, which included comments and requests for supplemental information on a variety of topics. We
responded to these comments on August 25, 2011. On December 7, 2011, we received several follow-up comments from the staff, to which we responded on January 11, 2012. On February 7, 2012, we received one follow-up comment from the staff,
to which we responded on February 21, 2012. We do not believe the remaining comment is material and expect it to be fully resolved in the near future. Disclosures responsive to the SEC staff s comments have been included in this report.
  
         4   

Table of Contents  

  Index to Financial Statements  

ITEM 2.   
   PROPERTIES.          Information with regard to oil and gas
producing activities follows:        1. Disclosure of Reserves        A. Summary of Oil and Gas Reserves at Year-End 2011       The table below summarizes the
oil-equivalent proved reserves in each geographic area and by product type for consolidated subsidiaries and equity companies. The Corporation has reported proved reserves on the basis of the average of the first-day-of-the-month price for each
month during the last 12-month period. Gas is converted to an oil-equivalent basis at six million cubic feet per one thousand barrels. No major discovery or other favorable or adverse event has occurred since December 31, 2011, that would cause a
significant change in the estimated proved reserves as of that date.       

(1)   
   South America includes proved developed reserves of 0.6 million barrels of crude oil and natural gas liquids and 72 billion cubic feet of natural gas and proved undeveloped
reserves of 0.6 million barrels of crude oil and natural gas liquids and 65 billion cubic feet of natural gas.      
         5   

Table of Contents  

  Index to Financial Statements  

   In the preceding reserves information, consolidated subsidiary and equity company reserves are
reported separately. However, the Corporation operates its business with the same view of equity company reserves as it has for reserves from consolidated subsidiaries.      The Corporation s overall volume capacity outlook, based on projects coming on stream as anticipated, is for production capacity to grow over the period 2012-2016. However, actual volumes will vary from
year to year due to the timing of individual project start-ups, operational outages, reservoir performance, regulatory changes, asset sales, weather events, price effects on production sharing contracts and other factors as described in Item
1A Risk Factors of this report.      The estimation of proved reserves, which is based on the requirement of reasonable certainty,
is an ongoing process based on rigorous technical evaluations, commercial and market assessments and detailed analysis of well information such as flow rates and reservoir pressure declines. Furthermore, the Corporation only records proved reserves
for projects which have received significant funding commitments by management made toward the development of the reserves. Although the Corporation is reasonably certain that proved reserves will be produced, the timing and amount recovered can be
affected by a number of factors including completion of development projects, reservoir performance, regulatory approvals and significant changes in projections of long-term oil and gas price levels.   
   B. Technologies Used in Establishing Proved Reserves Additions in 2011    
  Additions to ExxonMobil s proved reserves in 2011 were based on estimates generated through the integration of available and appropriate
geological, engineering and production data, utilizing well-established technologies that have been demonstrated in the field to yield repeatable and consistent results.      Data used in these integrated assessments included information obtained directly from the subsurface via wellbores, such as well logs, reservoir core samples, fluid samples, static and dynamic pressure
information, production test data, and surveillance and performance information. The data utilized also included subsurface information obtained through indirect measurements including high-quality 2-D and 3-D seismic data, calibrated with available
well control information. Where applicable, surface geological information was also utilized. The tools used to interpret the data included proprietary seismic processing software, proprietary reservoir modeling and simulation software and
commercially available data analysis packages.      In some circumstances, where appropriate analog reservoirs were available, reservoir
parameters from these analogs were used to increase the quality of and confidence in the reserves estimates.       C. Qualifications of
Reserves Technical Oversight Group and Internal Controls over Proved Reserves       ExxonMobil has a dedicated Reserves Technical
Oversight group that is separate from the operating organization. Primary responsibilities of this group include oversight of the reserves estimation process for compliance with Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC) rules and regulations, review
of annual changes in reserves estimates, and the reporting of ExxonMobil s proved reserves. This group also maintains the official company reserves estimates for ExxonMobil s proved reserves of crude and natural gas liquids, bitumen,
synthetic oil and natural gas. In addition, the group provides training to personnel involved in the reserves estimation and reporting process within ExxonMobil and its affiliates. The group is managed by and staffed with individuals that have an
average of more than 20 years of technical experience in the petroleum industry, including expertise in the classification and categorization of reserves under the SEC guidelines. This group includes several individuals who hold advanced degrees in
either Engineering or Geology, as well as individuals who hold Bachelor s degrees in various technical disciplines. Several members of the group hold professional registrations in their field of expertise and several have served on the Oil and
Gas Reserves Committee of the Society of Petroleum Engineers.      The Reserves Technical Oversight group maintains a central
computerized database containing the official company global reserves estimates. Appropriate controls, including limitations on database access and update capabilities, are in place to ensure data integrity within this central computerized database.
An annual review of the system s controls is performed by internal audit. Key components of the reserves estimation process include technical evaluations and analysis of well and field performance and a rigorous peer review. No changes may be
made to the reserves estimates in the central database, including additions of any new initial reserves estimates or subsequent revisions, unless these changes have been thoroughly reviewed and evaluated by duly authorized personnel within the
operating organization. In addition, changes to reserves estimates that exceed certain thresholds require further review and approval of the appropriate level of management within the operating organization before the changes may be made in the
central database. Endorsement by the Reserves Technical Oversight group for all proved reserves changes is a mandatory component of this review process. After all changes are made, reviews are held with senior management for final endorsement.
  
         6   

Table of Contents  

  Index to Financial Statements  

    2. Proved Undeveloped Reserves       At year-end 2011, approximately 8.8 billion oil-equivalent barrels (GOEB) of ExxonMobil s proved reserves were classified as proved undeveloped. This represents 35 percent of the 24.9 GOEB reported in
proved reserves. This compares to the 7.7 GOEB of proved undeveloped reserves reported at the end of 2010. The net increase of 1.1 GOEB is primarily due to the addition of new projects in Canada and the United States. During the year, ExxonMobil
conducted development activities in over 100 fields that resulted in the transfer of approximately 0.5 GOEB from proved undeveloped to proved developed reserves by year-end. The largest individual transfer was related to completion of drilling and
the initiation of production activities on new pad locations in the Cold Lake field in Canada.      One of ExxonMobil s requirements
for reporting proved reserves is that management has made significant funding commitments toward the development of the reserves. ExxonMobil has a disciplined investment strategy and many major fields require long lead-time in order to be developed.
Development projects typically take two to four years from the time of first recording of proved reserves to the start of production of these reserves. However, the development time for large and complex projects can exceed five years. During 2011,
discoveries and extensions related to new projects added approximately 1.5 GOEB of proved undeveloped reserves. The largest of these additions were related to the Kearl Expansion project in Canada and additions for planned drilling in the United
States. Overall, investments of $23.1 billion were made by the Corporation during 2011 to progress the development of reported proved undeveloped reserves, including $20.5 billion for oil and gas producing activities and an additional $2.6 billion
for other non-oil and gas producing activities such as the construction of LNG trains, support infrastructure and other related facilities that were undertaken to progress the development of proved undeveloped reserves. These investments represented
70 percent of the $33.1 billion in total reported Upstream capital and exploration expenditures.      Proved undeveloped reserves in the
United States, Kazakhstan, the Netherlands, Nigeria and Canada have remained undeveloped for five years or more primarily due to constraints on the capacity of infrastructure and the pace of co-venturer/government funding, as well as the time
required to complete development for very large projects. The Corporation is reasonably certain that these proved reserves will be produced; however, the timing and amount recovered can be affected by a number of factors including completion of
development projects, reservoir performance and regulatory approvals. Approximately one third of the proved undeveloped reserves that have been reported for five or more years are located in three fields in Kazakhstan and the Netherlands. In
Kazakhstan, the first is the initial development of the giant offshore Kashagan field which is included in the North Caspian Production Sharing Agreement in which ExxonMobil participates. The second is the Tengizchevroil joint venture which includes
a production license in the Tengiz field and the nearby Korolev field. The joint venture is producing and proved undeveloped reserves will continue to move to proved developed as approved development phases progress. The third is the Groningen gas
field in the Netherlands. Proved undeveloped reserves reported for this field are related to installation of future stages of compression. These reserves will move to proved developed when the additional stages of compression are installed to
maintain field delivery pressure.   
         7   

Table of Contents  

  Index to Financial Statements  

    3. Oil and Gas Production, Production Prices and Production Costs    
   A. Oil and Gas Production    
  The table below summarizes production by final product sold and by geographic area for the last three years.   

8   

Table of Contents  

  Index to Financial Statements  

    B. Production Prices and Production Costs    
  The table below summarizes average production prices and average production costs by geographic area and by product type for the last three
years.       
 
         9   

Table of Contents  

  Index to Financial Statements  

Average production prices have been calculated by using sales quantities from the Corporation s own
production as the divisor. Average production costs have been computed by using net production quantities for the divisor. The volumes of crude oil and natural gas liquids (NGL) production used for this computation are shown in the oil and gas
production table in section 3.A. The volumes of natural gas used in the calculation are the production volumes of natural gas available for sale and are also shown in section 3.A. The natural gas available for sale volumes are different from those
shown in the reserves table in the  Oil and Gas Reserves  part of the  Supplemental Information on Oil and Gas Exploration and Production Activities  portion of the Financial Section of this report due to volumes consumed or
flared. Gas is converted to an oil-equivalent basis at six million cubic feet per one thousand barrels.   
         10   

Table of Contents  

  Index to Financial Statements  

    4. Drilling and Other Exploratory and Development Activities    
   A. Number of Net Productive and Dry Wells Drilled        
 
         11   

Table of Contents  

  Index to Financial Statements  

B. Exploratory and Development Activities Regarding Oil and Gas Resources Extracted by Mining Technologies
       Syncrude Operations       Syncrude is a joint venture established to recover shallow deposits of oil sands using open-pit mining methods to extract the crude bitumen, and then upgrade it to produce a high-quality, light (32 degrees API),
sweet, synthetic crude oil. Imperial Oil Limited is the owner of a 25 percent interest in the joint venture. Exxon Mobil Corporation has a 69.6 percent interest in Imperial Oil Limited. In 2011, the company s share of net production of
synthetic crude oil was about 67 thousand barrels per day and share of net acreage was about 63 thousand acres in the Athabasca oil sands deposit.       Kearl Project       The Kearl project is a joint venture established to recover shallow deposits
of oil sands using open-pit mining methods to extract the crude bitumen. Imperial Oil Limited holds a 70.96 percent interest in the joint venture and ExxonMobil Canada Properties holds the other 29.04 percent. Exxon Mobil Corporation has a 69.6
percent interest in Imperial Oil Limited and a 100 percent interest in ExxonMobil Canada Properties. Kearl is comprised of six oil sands leases covering about 48 thousand acres in the Athabasca oil sands deposit.   
  The Kearl project is located approximately 40 miles north of Fort McMurray, Alberta, Canada and is expected to be developed in two phases.
Bitumen will be extracted from oil sands produced from open-pit mining operations, and processed through a bitumen extraction and froth treatment plant. The product, a blend of bitumen and diluent, is planned to be shipped via pipelines for
distribution to North American markets. Diluent is natural gas condensate or other light hydrocarbons added to the crude bitumen to facilitate transportation to market by pipeline. At year-end 2011, the initial development of the Kearl project was
more than 85 percent complete with expected startup in 2012. The Kearl Expansion project was funded in 2011.   
         12   

Table of Contents  

  Index to Financial Statements  

    5. Present Activities        A. Wells Drilling        
     B. Review of Principal Ongoing Activities    
   UNITED STATES    
  ExxonMobil s year-end 2011 acreage holdings totaled 15.6 million net acres, of which 1.9 million net acres were offshore. ExxonMobil
was active in areas onshore and offshore in the lower 48 states and in Alaska.      During 2011, 1,318.0 net exploration and development
wells were completed in the inland lower 48 states, including development activities in the Barnett Shale of North Texas, the Freestone Trend of East Texas, the Haynesville Shale of Texas and Louisiana, the Fayetteville Shale of Arkansas, the
Woodford Shale of Oklahoma, the Bakken oil play in North Dakota and Montana, the Marcellus Shale of Pennsylvania and West Virginia, the Eagle Ford Shale of South Texas, the Piceance Basin of Colorado, the San Joaquin Basin of California and the
Permian Basin of West Texas.      ExxonMobil s net acreage in the Gulf of Mexico at year-end 2011 was 1.8 million acres. A
total of 1.3 net exploration and development wells were completed during the year after the offshore drilling moratorium was lifted. The deepwater Hadrian South project and the non-operated Lucius project were both funded in 2011, and project
activities are under way. Project work continued on the non-operated St. Malo project. Offshore California 1.0 net development well was completed.      Participation in Alaska production and development continued and a total of 13.6 net development wells were completed.       CANADA / SOUTH AMERICA        Canada    
  Oil and Gas Operations   
  ExxonMobil s year-end 2011 acreage holdings totaled 5.2 million net acres, of which 1.5 million net acres were offshore. A total
of 124.2 net exploration and development wells were completed during the year. The Horn River Pilot project was funded in 2011. Project activities continued on the Hibernia Southern Extension project.   
  In Situ Bitumen Operations   
  ExxonMobil s year-end 2011 in situ bitumen acreage holdings totaled 0.5 million net onshore acres. A total of 34.0 net development wells
were completed during the year.   
         13   

Table of Contents  

  Index to Financial Statements  

     Argentina           ExxonMobil s net acreage totaled 1.0 million onshore acres at year-end 2011,
and there were 1.3 net development wells completed during the year.       Venezuela    
  ExxonMobil s acreage holdings and assets were expropriated in 2007. Refer to the relevant portion of  Note 15: Litigation and Other
Contingencies  of the Financial Section of this report for additional information.       EUROPE    
   Germany       A total of
4.8 million net onshore acres and 0.1 million net offshore acres were held by ExxonMobil at year-end 2011, with 7.3 net exploration and development wells completed during the year.   
   Netherlands    
  ExxonMobil s net interest in licenses totaled approximately 1.6 million acres at year-end 2011, of which 1.2 million acres are
onshore. A total of 11.1 net exploration and development wells were completed during the year. The non-operated project to redevelop the Schoonebeek oil field started up in 2011.   
   Norway    
  ExxonMobil s net interest in licenses at year-end 2011 totaled approximately 1.0 million acres, all offshore. ExxonMobil participated
in 2.4 net exploration and development well completions in 2011. The non-operated Aasgard Subsea Compression project was funded in 2011.       United Kingdom       ExxonMobil s net interest in licenses at year-end 2011 totaled
approximately 0.3 million acres, all offshore. The divestment of Mobil North Sea Limited (MNSL) was completed in 2011. A total of 0.8 net development wells were completed during the year.   
   AFRICA        Angola
      ExxonMobil s year-end 2011 acreage holdings totaled 0.6 million net offshore acres, and 5.2 net exploration and
development wells were completed during the year. On Block 15, development drilling continued at Kizomba A and Kizomba C. The Angola Gas Gathering project was completed in 2011, and project work continued on Kizomba Satellites Phase 1. On the
non-operated Block 17, the Pazflor project started up in 2011 and work continued on the Cravo-Lirio-Orquidea-Violeta project. Development drilling continued at Dalia, Girassol and Rosa. On the non-operated Block 31, project work continued on the
Plutao-Saturno-Venus-Marte project.       Chad       ExxonMobil s net year-end 2011 acreage holdings consisted of 46 thousand onshore acres, with 28.0 net development wells completed during the year. The undeveloped concessions of M Biku, Belanga and
Mangara were relinquished in 2011.        Equatorial Guinea           ExxonMobil s acreage totaled 0.1 million net offshore acres at year-end
2011, with 3.8 net development wells completed during the year.       Nigeria    
  ExxonMobil s net acreage totaled 1.0 million offshore acres at year-end 2011, with 7.3 net exploration and development wells completed
during the year. Work continued on the deepwater Usan project, and the first phase of the Satellite Field Development project is under way.   
         14   

Table of Contents  

  Index to Financial Statements  

    ASIA        Azerbaijan       At year-end 2011, ExxonMobil s net acreage totaled 9 thousand
offshore acres. A total of 0.5 net development wells were completed during the year. Work continued on the Chirag Oil project.   
   Indonesia       At
year-end 2011, ExxonMobil had 5.2 million net acres, 3.4 million net acres offshore and 1.8 million net acres onshore. A total of 3.4 net exploration wells were completed during the year. The full field development at Banyu Urip
was funded in 2011 and project activities are under way.       Iraq    
  At year-end 2011, ExxonMobil s onshore acreage was 0.9 million net acres. A total of 20.8 net development wells were completed at the
West Qurna Phase I oil field during the year. In 2010, a contract was signed with South Oil Company of the Iraqi Ministry of Oil to redevelop and expand the West Qurna Phase I oil field. The term of the contract is 20 years with the right to extend
for five years. In 2010 initial field rehabilitation activities commenced. Field rehabilitation activities across the life of this project will include drilling of new wells, working over of existing wells, optimization and debottlenecking of
existing facilities, and the establishment of field offices and camps. During 2011, production sharing contracts were negotiated with the regional government of Kurdistan.       Kazakhstan       ExxonMobil s net acreage totaled 0.1 million acres onshore and
0.2 million acres offshore at year-end 2011. Working with our partners, construction of the initial phase of the Kashagan field continued during 2011.       Malaysia       ExxonMobil has interests in production sharing contracts covering
0.5 million net acres offshore at year-end 2011. During the year, a total of 8.5 net development wells were completed. The Tapis and Telok projects were funded in 2011 and project activities are under way.   
    Qatar        
  Through our joint ventures with Qatar Petroleum, ExxonMobil s net acreage totaled 65 thousand acres offshore at year-end 2011. During
the year, a total of 0.4 net development wells were completed. ExxonMobil participated in 61.8 million tonnes per year gross liquefied natural gas capacity at year end. The development agreements associated with the Barzan project were signed
in 2011.       Republic of Yemen       ExxonMobil s net acreage in the Republic of Yemen production sharing areas totaled 10 thousand acres onshore at year-end 2011.       Russia       ExxonMobil s net acreage holdings at year-end 2011 were 85 thousand
acres, all offshore. A total of 0.6 net development wells were completed. The Sakhalin-1 Chayvo Expansion and Arkutun-Dagi projects continued development activities in 2011. ExxonMobil and Rosneft signed a Strategic Cooperation Agreement in 2011 to
jointly participate in exploration and development activities in Russia, the United States and other parts of the world.       Thailand
      ExxonMobil s net onshore acreage in Thailand concessions totaled 21 thousand acres at year-end 2011.   
         15   

Table of Contents  

  Index to Financial Statements  

    United Arab Emirates    
  ExxonMobil s net acreage in the Abu Dhabi offshore Upper Zakum oil concession was 81 thousand acres at year-end 2011, with 0.6 net
exploration wells completed during the year.      ExxonMobil s net acreage in the Abu Dhabi onshore oil concession was
0.5 million acres at year-end 2011, of which 0.4 million acres are onshore. During the year, a total of 3.7 net development wells were completed.       AUSTRALIA / OCEANIA        Australia    
  ExxonMobil s year-end 2011 acreage holdings totaled 1.7 million net acres offshore. During 2011, a total of 1.3 net exploration wells
were completed. Offshore installation continued for the Kipper Tuna Turrum project.      Project construction activity for the
co-venturer operated Gorgon liquefied natural gas (LNG) project progressed in 2011. The project consists of a subsea infrastructure for offshore production and transportation of the gas, and a 15 million tonnes per year LNG facility and a
280 million cubic feet per day domestic gas plant located on Barrow Island, Western Australia.       Papua New Guinea
      A total of 0.5 million net onshore acres were held by ExxonMobil at year-end 2011, with 0.1 net development well completed
during the year. Work continued on the Papua New Guinea (PNG) LNG project. The project consists of conditioning facilities in the southern PNG Highlands, a 6.6 million tonnes per year LNG facility near Port Moresby and approximately 430 miles
of onshore and offshore pipelines.       WORLDWIDE EXPLORATION    
  At year-end 2011, exploration activities were under way in several areas in which ExxonMobil has no established production operations and thus
are not included above. A total of 36.5 million net acres were held at year-end 2011, and 6.5 net exploration wells were completed during the year in these countries.       6. Delivery Commitments       ExxonMobil sells crude oil and natural gas from its producing
operations under a variety of contractual obligations, some of which may specify the delivery of a fixed and determinable quantity for periods longer than one year. ExxonMobil also enters into natural gas sales contracts where the source of the
natural gas used to fulfill the contract can be a combination of our own production and the spot market. Worldwide, we are contractually committed to deliver approximately 3,000 billion cubic feet of natural gas for the period from 2012 through
2014. We expect to fulfill the majority of these delivery commitments with production from our proved developed reserves. Any remaining commitments will be fulfilled with production from our proved undeveloped reserves and spot market purchases as
necessary.   
         16   

Table of Contents  

  Index to Financial Statements  

    7. Oil and Gas Properties, Wells, Operations and Acreage    
   A. Gross and Net Productive Wells        
    There were 37,692 gross and 31,683 net operated wells at year-end 2011 and 35,691 gross and 30,494 net operated
wells at year-end 2010. The number of wells with multiple completions was 1,775 gross in 2011 and 1,725 gross in 2010.   
         17   

Table of Contents  

  Index to Financial Statements  

    B. Gross and Net Developed Acreage    

Separate acreage data for oil and gas are not maintained because, in many instances, both are produced from the
same acreage.       C. Gross and Net Undeveloped Acreage    

ExxonMobil s investment in developed and undeveloped acreage is comprised of numerous concessions,
blocks and leases. The terms and conditions under which the Corporation maintains exploration and/or production rights to the acreage are property-specific, contractually defined and vary significantly from property to property. Work programs are
designed to ensure that the exploration potential of any property is fully evaluated before expiration. In some instances, the Corporation may elect to relinquish acreage in advance of the contractual expiration date if the evaluation process is
complete and there is not a business basis for extension. In cases where additional time may be required to fully evaluate acreage, the Corporation has generally been successful in obtaining extensions. The scheduled expiration of leases and
concessions for undeveloped acreage over the next three years is not expected to have a material adverse impact on the Corporation.   
         18   

Table of Contents  

  Index to Financial Statements  

    D. Summary of Acreage Terms    
   UNITED STATES       Oil and
gas leases have an exploration period ranging from one to ten years, and a production period that normally remains in effect until production ceases. Under certain circumstances, a lease may be held beyond its exploration term even if production has
not commenced. In some instances, a  fee interest  is acquired where both the surface and the underlying mineral interests are owned outright.       CANADA / SOUTH AMERICA        Canada    
  Exploration licenses or leases are acquired for varying periods of time with renewals or extensions possible. Exploration rights in onshore areas
acquired from Canadian provinces entitle the holder to continue existing licenses or leases upon completing specified work. In general, license and lease agreements are held as long as there is production on the licenses and leases. The majority of
Cold Lake leases are held in this manner. The exploration acreage in eastern Canada and the block in the Beaufort Sea acquired in 2007 are currently held by work commitments of various amounts.   
   Argentina       The federal
onshore concession terms in Argentina are up to four years for the initial exploration period, up to three years for the second exploration period and up to two years for the third exploration period. A 50-percent relinquishment is required after
each exploration period. An extension after the third exploration period is possible for up to five years. The total production term is 25 years with a ten-year extension possible, once a field has been developed. Argentine provinces are entitled to
modify the concession terms granted within their territories. The concession terms of the exploration permits granted by Neuquen Province are up to six years for the initial exploration period, up to four years for the second exploration period and
up to three years for the third exploration period depending on the classification of the area. An extension after the third exploration period is possible for up to one year.       EUROPE        Germany    
  Exploration concessions are granted for an initial maximum period of five years, with an unlimited number of extensions of up to three years
each. Extensions are subject to specific, minimum work commitments. Production licenses are normally granted for 20 to 25 years with multiple possible extensions as long as there is production on the license. In 2007, ExxonMobil affiliates acquired
four exploration licenses in the state of Lower Saxony. The exploration licenses are for a period of five years during which exploration work programs will be carried out. In 2009, ExxonMobil affiliates acquired two exploration licenses in the state
of North Rhine Westphalia for an initial period of five years and an extension to one of the Lower Saxony licenses.       Netherlands
      Under the Mining Law, effective January 1, 2003, exploration and production licenses for both onshore and offshore areas are
issued for a period as explicitly defined in the license. The term is based on the period of time necessary to perform the activities for which the license is issued. License conditions are stipulated in the license and are based on the Mining Law.
     Production rights granted prior to January 1, 2003, remain subject to their existing terms, and differ slightly for onshore and
offshore areas. Onshore production licenses issued prior to 1988 were indefinite; from 1988 they were issued for a period as explicitly defined in the license, ranging from 35 to 45 years. Offshore production licenses issued before 1976 were issued
for a fixed period of 40 years; from 1976 they were again issued for a period as explicitly defined in the license, ranging from 15 to 40 years.       Norway       Licenses issued prior to 1972 were for an initial period of six years and an
extension period of 40 years, with relinquishment of at least one-fourth of the original area required at the end of the sixth year and another one-fourth at the end of the ninth year. Licenses issued between 1972 and 1997 were for an initial period
of up to six years (with extension of the initial period of one year at a time up to ten years after 1985), and an extension period of up to 30 years, with relinquishment of at least one-half of the original area required at
  
         19   

Table of Contents  

  Index to Financial Statements  

the end of the initial period. Licenses issued after July 1, 1997, have an initial period of up to ten years and a normal extension period of up to 30 years or in special cases of up to 50 years,
and with relinquishment of at least one-half of the original area required at the end of the initial period.       United Kingdom
      Acreage terms are fixed by the government and are periodically changed. For example, many of the early licenses issued under the
first four licensing rounds provided for an initial term of six years with relinquishment of at least one-half of the original area at the end of the initial term, subject to extension for a further 40 years. At the end of any such 40-year term,
licenses may continue in producing areas until cessation of production; or licenses may continue in development areas for periods agreed on a case-by-case basis until they become producing areas; or licenses terminate in all other areas. The
licensing regime was last updated in 2002, and the majority of licenses issued have an initial term of four years with a second term extension of four years and a final term of 18 years with a mandatory relinquishment of 50 percent of the acreage
after the initial term and of all acreage that is not covered by a development plan at the end of the second term.       AFRICA
       Angola    
  Exploration and production activities are governed by production sharing agreements with an initial exploration term of four years and an
optional second phase of two to three years. The production period is for 25 years, and agreements generally provide for a negotiated extension.       Chad       Exploration permits are issued for a period of five years, and are renewable for
one or two further five-year periods. The terms and conditions of the permits, including relinquishment obligations, are specified in a negotiated convention. The production term is for 30 years and may be extended at the discretion of the
government.       Equatorial Guinea       Exploration and production activities are governed by production sharing contracts negotiated with the State Ministry of Mines, Industry and Energy. The exploration periods are for ten to 15 years with limited
relinquishments in the absence of commercial discoveries. The production period for crude oil is 30 years while the production period for gas is 50 years. Under the Hydrocarbons Law enacted in 2006, the exploration terms for new production sharing
contracts are four to five years with a maximum of two one-year extensions, unless the Ministry agrees otherwise.       Nigeria
      Exploration and production activities in the deepwater offshore areas are typically governed by production sharing contracts
(PSCs) with the national oil company, the Nigerian National Petroleum Corporation (NNPC). NNPC holds the underlying Oil Prospecting License (OPL) and any resulting Oil Mining Lease (OML). The terms of the PSCs are generally 30 years, including a
ten-year exploration period (an initial exploration phase plus one or two optional periods) covered by an OPL. Upon commercial discovery, an OPL may be converted to an OML. Partial relinquishment is required under the PSC at the end of the ten-year
exploration period, and OMLs have a 20-year production period that may be extended.      Some exploration activities are carried out in
deepwater by joint ventures with local companies holding interests in an OPL. OPLs in deepwater offshore areas are valid for ten years and are non-renewable, while in all other areas the licenses are for five years and also are non-renewable.
Demonstrating a commercial discovery is the basis for conversion of an OPL to an OML.      OMLs granted prior to the 1969 Petroleum Act
(i.e., under the Mineral Oils Act 1914, repealed by the 1969 Petroleum Act) were for 30 years onshore and 40 years in offshore areas and have been renewed, effective December 1, 2008, for a further period of 20 years, with a further renewal option
of 20 years. Operations under these pre-1969 OMLs are conducted under a joint venture agreement with NNPC rather than a PSC. In 2000, a Memorandum of Understanding (MOU) was executed defining commercial terms applicable to existing joint venture oil
production. The MOU may be terminated on one calendar year s notice.      OMLs granted under the 1969 Petroleum Act, which include
all deepwater OMLs, have a maximum term of 20 years without distinction for onshore or offshore location and are renewable, upon 12 months  written notice, for another period of 20 years. OMLs not held by NNPC are also subject to a mandatory
50-percent relinquishment after the first ten years of their duration.   
         20   

Table of Contents  

  Index to Financial Statements  

    ASIA        Azerbaijan       The production sharing agreement (PSA) for the development of the
Azeri-Chirag-Gunashli field is established for an initial period of 30 years starting from the PSA execution date in 1994.      Other
exploration and production activities are governed by PSAs negotiated with the national oil company of Azerbaijan. The exploration period consists of three or four years with the possibility of a one to three-year extension. The production period,
which includes development, is for 25 years or 35 years with the possibility of one or two five-year extensions.       Indonesia
      Exploration and production activities in Indonesia are generally governed by cooperation contracts, usually in the form of a
production sharing contract, negotiated with BPMIGAS, a government agency established in 2002 to manage upstream oil and gas activities. Formerly this activity was carried out by Pertamina, the government-owned oil company, which is now a competing
limited liability company.       Iraq       Development and production activities in the state-owned oil and gas fields are governed by contracts with regional oil companies of the Iraqi Ministry of Oil. An ExxonMobil affiliate entered into a contract
with South Oil Company of the Iraqi Ministry of Oil for the rights to participate in the development and production activities of the West Qurna Phase I oil and gas field effective March 1, 2010. The term of the contract is 20 years with the
right to extend for five years. The contract provides for cost recovery plus per-barrel fees for incremental production above specified levels.      Exploration and production activities in the Kurdistan region of Iraq are governed by production sharing contracts negotiated with the regional government of Kurdistan in 2011. The exploration term is for five
years with the possibility of two-year extensions. The production period is 20 years with the right to extend for five years.   
   Kazakhstan       Onshore
exploration and production activities are governed by the production license, exploration license and joint venture agreements negotiated with the Republic of Kazakhstan. Existing production operations have a 40-year production period that commenced
in 1993.      Offshore exploration and production activities are governed by a production sharing agreement negotiated with the Republic
of Kazakhstan. The exploration period is six years followed by separate appraisal periods for each discovery. The production period for each discovery, which includes development, is for 20 years from the date of declaration of commerciality with
the possibility of two ten-year extensions.       Malaysia       Exploration and production activities are governed by production sharing contracts (PSCs) negotiated with the national oil company. The more recent PSCs governing exploration and production activities have an
overall term of 24 to 38 years, depending on water depth, with possible extensions to the exploration and/or development periods. The exploration period is five to seven years with the possibility of extensions, after which time areas with no
commercial discoveries will be deemed relinquished. The development period is from four to six years from commercial discovery, with the possibility of extensions under special circumstances. Areas from which commercial production has not started by
the end of the development period will be deemed relinquished if no extension is granted. All extensions are subject to the national oil company s prior written approval. The total production period is 15 to 25 years from first commercial
lifting, not to exceed the overall term of the contract.      In 2008, the Company reached agreement with the national oil company for a
new PSC, which was subsequently signed in 2009. Under the new PSC, from 2008 until March 31, 2012, the Company is entitled to undertake new development and production activities in oil fields under an existing PSC, subject to new minimum work and
spending commitments, including an enhanced oil recovery project in one of the oil fields. When the existing PSC expires on March 31, 2012, the producing fields covered by the existing PSC will automatically become part of the new PSC, which has a
25-year duration from April 2008.   
         21   

Table of Contents  

  Index to Financial Statements  

    Qatar       The State of Qatar grants gas production development project rights to develop and supply gas from the offshore North Field to permit the economic development and production of gas reserves sufficient to satisfy
the gas and LNG sales obligations of these projects.       Republic of Yemen    
  The Jannah production sharing agreement has a development period extending 20 years from first commercial declaration, which was made in June
1995.       Russia       Terms for ExxonMobil s acreage are fixed by the production sharing agreement (PSA) that became effective in 1996 between the Russian government and the Sakhalin-1 consortium, of which ExxonMobil is the
operator. The term of the PSA is 20 years from the Declaration of Commerciality, which would be 2021. The term may be extended thereafter in ten-year increments as specified in the PSA.   
   Thailand       The
Petroleum Act of 1971 allows production under ExxonMobil s concession for 30 years with a ten-year extension at terms generally prevalent at the time.       United Arab Emirates       Exploration and production activities for the major onshore oil
fields in the Emirate of Abu Dhabi are governed by a 75-year oil concession agreement executed in 1939 and subsequently amended through various agreements with the government of Abu Dhabi. An interest in the Upper Zakum field, a major offshore
field, was acquired effective as of January 2006, for a term expiring March 2026.       AUSTRALIA/OCEANIA    
   Australia       Exploration
and production activities conducted offshore in Commonwealth waters are governed by Federal legislation. Exploration permits are granted for an initial term of six years with two possible five-year renewal periods. Retention leases may be granted
for resources that are not commercially viable at the time of application, but are expected to become commercially viable within 15 years. These are granted for periods of five years and renewals may be requested. Prior to July 1998, production
licenses were granted initially for 21 years, with a further renewal of 21 years and thereafter  indefinitely , i.e., for the life of the field. Effective from July 1998, new production licenses are granted  indefinitely . In
each case, a production license may be terminated if no production operations have been carried on for five years.       Papua New
Guinea       Exploration and production activities are governed by the Oil and Gas Act. Petroleum Prospecting licenses are granted for
an initial term of six years with a five-year extension possible (an additional extension of three years is possible in certain circumstances). Generally, a 50-percent relinquishment of the license area is required at the end of the initial six-year
term, if extended. Petroleum Development licenses are granted for an initial 25-year period. An extension of up to 20 years may be granted at the Minister s discretion. Petroleum Retention licenses may be granted for gas resources that are not
commercially viable at the time of application, but may become commercially viable within the maximum possible retention time of 15 years. Petroleum Retention licenses are granted for five-year terms, and may be extended, at the Minister s
discretion, twice for the maximum retention time of 15 years. Extensions of Petroleum Retention licenses may be for periods of less than one year, renewable annually, if the Minister considers at the time of extension that the resources could become
commercially viable in less than five years.   
         22   

Table of Contents  

  Index to Financial Statements  

    Information with regard to the Downstream segment follows:    
  ExxonMobil s Downstream segment manufactures and sells petroleum products. The refining and supply operations encompass a global network of
manufacturing plants, transportation systems, and distribution centers that provide a range of fuels, lubricants and other products and feedstocks to our customers around the world.   
   Refining Capacity At Year-End
2011    (1)            

(1)   
   Capacity data is based on 100 percent of rated refinery process unit stream-day capacities under normal operating conditions, less the impact of shutdowns for regular
repair and maintenance activities, averaged over an extended period of time.          

(2)   
   Thousands of barrels per day (KBD). ExxonMobil share reflects 100 percent of atmospheric distillation capacity in operations of ExxonMobil and majority-owned
subsidiaries. For companies owned 50 percent or less, ExxonMobil share is the greater of ExxonMobil s equity interest or that portion of distillation capacity normally available to ExxonMobil.      
         23   

Table of Contents  

  Index to Financial Statements  

   The marketing operations sell products and services throughout the world. Our  Exxon ,
 Esso  and  Mobil  brands serve customers at over 25,000 retail service stations.       Retail Sites At Year-End 2011

24   

Table of Contents  

  Index to Financial Statements  

    Information with regard to the Chemical segment follows:    
  ExxonMobil s Chemical segment manufactures and sells petrochemicals. The Chemical business supplies olefins, polyolefins, aromatics, and a
wide variety of other petrochemicals.       Chemical Complex Capacity At Year-End
2011    (1)(2)            

(1)   
   Capacity for ethylene, polyethylene, polypropylene and paraxylene in millions of metric tons per year.      

(2)   
   Capacity reflects 100 percent for operations of ExxonMobil and majority-owned subsidiaries. For companies owned 50 percent or less, capacity is ExxonMobil s interest.

(3)   
   Net ExxonMobil ethylene capacity is 35 percent. Net ExxonMobil polyethylene capacity is 100 percent.      
         25   

Table of Contents  

  Index to Financial Statements  

ITEM 3.   
   LEGAL PROCEEDINGS.         Regarding a matter
previously reported in the Corporation s Form 10-Q for the second quarter of 2009, the Corporation has resolved a Consolidated Compliance Order   Notice of Potential Penalty issued by the Louisiana Department of Environmental
Quality (LDEQ) to the Corporation s Baton Rouge Resins Finishing Plant (BRFP) on October 16, 2008, relating to alleged exceedances of air permit limits for certain volatile organic compounds and hazardous air pollutants. BRFP had
self-disclosed these emission results to the LDEQ and proposed a number of specific corrective action steps. The settlement terms, which have been agreed to and were subject to public notice and comment until February 20, 2012, include a total
payment of approximately $360 thousand, which consists of an administrative penalty of approximately $306 thousand and payment of approximately $54 thousand for certain Beneficial Environmental Projects.  
  Regarding a matter previously reported in the Corporation s Form 10-Q for the first quarter of 2010, the Corporation has resolved issues
raised by the LDEQ relating to a leak of propylene detected on January 10, 2010 at the Ethylene Purification Unit at the Corporation s Baton Rouge, Louisiana chemical plant. The settlement terms, which have been agreed to and are
subject to public notice and comment until March 2, 2012, include a total payment of approximately $250 thousand, which consists of an administrative penalty of approximately $123 thousand, the Corporation s purchase of a camera
for detection of certain emissions at a cost of approximately $79 thousand and payment for certain Beneficial Environmental Projects totaling $48 thousand.      With regard to a matter previously reported in the Corporation s Form 10-Q for the third quarter of 2011, on January 19, 2012, ExxonMobil Pipeline Company (EMPCo) entered into an agreed
Administrative Order on Consent (AOC) with the Montana Department of Environmental Quality (MDEQ) to resolve civil and related liabilities under state environmental laws resulting from the July 1, 2011 discharge of crude oil into the Yellowstone
River from EMPCo s Silvertip Pipeline. Under the AOC, EMPCo will: (1) pay a civil penalty totaling $1.6 million, including $300 thousand in cash payments and $1.3 million in Supplemental Environmental Projects to be decided upon
by the MDEQ; (2) reimburse the state for past costs associated with cleanup efforts, totaling approximately $760 thousand; (3) reimburse the State of Montana s future oversight costs; (4) monitor and document the degradation of
remaining visible oil over time at selected locations; and, (5) continue its soil and water monitoring program, which was agreed upon with the MDEQ in October 2011. The AOC will terminate when EMPCo certifies that all required activities have
been performed and the MDEQ has approved the certification. The order was subject to a 30-day public comment period which expired on February 21, 2012.      Refer to the relevant portions of  Note 15: Litigation and Other Contingencies  of the Financial Section of this report for additional information on legal proceedings.   

ITEM 4.   
   MINE SAFETY DISCLOSURES.         Not applicable.
            
         26   

Table of Contents  

  Index to Financial Statements  

          Executive Officers of the Registrant [pursuant to Instruction 3 to
Regulation S-K, Item 401(b)] (ages as of February 29, 2012).        

Rex W. Tillerson   
     
   Chairman of the Board   

Held current title since:   
     
  January 1, 2006  
        
  Age: 59   
 
    Mr. Rex W. Tillerson became a Director and President of Exxon Mobil Corporation on March 1, 2004. He became Chairman of the Board
and Chief Executive Officer on January 1, 2006. He still holds these positions as of this filing date.    

Mark W. Albers   
     
   Senior Vice President   

Held current title since:   
     
  April 1, 2007  
        
  Age: 55   
 
    Mr. Mark W. Albers was President of ExxonMobil Development Company October 1, 2004   April 13, 2007. He became Senior
Vice President of Exxon Mobil Corporation on April 1, 2007, a position he still holds as of this filing date.    

Michael J. Dolan   
     
   Senior Vice President   

Held current title since:   
     
  April 1, 2008  
        
  Age: 58   
 
    Mr. Michael J. Dolan was President of ExxonMobil Chemical Company and Vice President of Exxon Mobil Corporation September 1, 2004
  March 31, 2008. He became Senior Vice President of Exxon Mobil Corporation on April 1, 2008, a position he still holds as of this filing date.    

Donald D. Humphreys   
     
   Senior Vice President    

Held current title since:   
     
    January 25, 2006    
        
  Age: 64   
 
    Mr. Donald D. Humphreys became Senior Vice President of Exxon Mobil Corporation on January 25, 2006, a position he still holds as
of this filing date. Over this period, he was Treasurer of Exxon Mobil Corporation through April 30, 2011.    

Andrew P. Swiger   
     
   Senior Vice President   

Held current title since:   
     
  April 1, 2009  
        
  Age: 55   
 
    Mr. Andrew P. Swiger was President of ExxonMobil Gas   Power Marketing Company and Vice President of Exxon Mobil Corporation
October 1, 2006   March 31, 2009. He became Senior Vice President of Exxon Mobil Corporation on April 1, 2009, a position he still holds as of this filing date.    

S. Jack Balagia   
     
   Vice President and General Counsel   

Held current title since:   
     
  March 1, 2010  
        
  Age: 60   
 
    Mr. S. Jack Balagia was Assistant General Counsel of Exxon Mobil Corporation April 1, 2004   March 1, 2010. He became Vice
President and General Counsel of Exxon Mobil Corporation on March 1, 2010, positions he still holds as of this filing date.     

William M. Colton   
     
   Vice President - Strategic Planning   

Held current title since:   
     
  February 1, 2009  
        
  Age: 58   
 
    Mr. William M. Colton was Assistant Treasurer of Exxon Mobil Corporation January 25, 2006   January 31, 2009. He became Vice
President Strategic Planning of Exxon Mobil Corporation on February 1, 2009, a position he still holds as of this filing date.    

27   

Table of Contents  

  Index to Financial Statements  

Robert S. Franklin   
     
   Vice President   

Held current title since:   
     
  May 1, 2009  
        
  Age: 54   
 
    Mr. Robert S. Franklin was Vice President, New Business Development of ExxonMobil Gas   Power Marketing Company July 1,
2001   April 15, 2007. He was Executive Assistant to the Chairman, Exxon Mobil Corporation April 16, 2007   March 31, 2008. He was Vice President, Europe/Russia/Caspian of ExxonMobil Production Company April 1, 2008   May 1,
2009. He became Vice President of Exxon Mobil Corporation and President, ExxonMobil Upstream Ventures on May 1, 2009, positions he still holds as of this filing date.    

Sherman J. Glass, Jr.   
     
   Vice President   

Held current title since:   
     
  April 1, 2008  
        
  Age: 64   
 
    Mr. Sherman J. Glass, Jr. was Senior Vice President of ExxonMobil Chemical Company September 1, 2005   March 31, 2008. He
became President of ExxonMobil Refining   Supply Company and Vice President of Exxon Mobil Corporation on April 1, 2008, positions he still holds as of this filing date.    

Stephen M. Greenlee   
     
   Vice President   

Held current title since:   
     
  September 1, 2010  
        
  Age: 54   
 
    Mr. Stephen M. Greenlee was Vice President of ExxonMobil Exploration Company June 1, 2004   June 1, 2009. He was
President of ExxonMobil Upstream Research Company June 1, 2009   August 31, 2010. He became President of ExxonMobil Exploration Company and Vice President of Exxon Mobil Corporation on September 1, 2010, positions he still holds as of
this filing date.    

Alan J. Kelly   
     
   Vice President   

Held current title since:   
     
  December 1, 2007  
        
  Age: 54   
 
    Mr. Alan J. Kelly was on Special Assignment for the National Petroleum Council March 1, 2006   November 30, 2007. He
became President of ExxonMobil Lubricants   Petroleum Specialties Company and Vice President of Exxon Mobil Corporation on December 1, 2007. On February 1, 2012, the businesses of ExxonMobil Lubricants   Petroleum Specialties
Company and ExxonMobil Fuels Marketing Company were consolidated and Mr. Kelly became President of the combined ExxonMobil Fuels, Lubricants   Specialties Marketing Company as well as Vice President of Exxon Mobil Corporation, positions he still
holds as of this filing date.    

Richard M. Kruger   
     
   Vice President   

Held current title since:   
     
  April 1, 2008  
        
  Age: 52   
 
    Mr. Richard M. Kruger was Executive Vice President of ExxonMobil Production Company October 1, 2006   March 31, 2008. He
became President of ExxonMobil Production Company and Vice President of Exxon Mobil Corporation on April 1, 2008, positions he still holds as of this filing date.    

Patrick T. Mulva   
     
   Vice President and Controller   

Held current title since:   
     
    February 1, 2002 (Vice President)  
  July 1, 2004 (Controller)   
        
  Age: 60   
 
    Mr. Patrick T. Mulva became Vice President and Controller of Exxon Mobil Corporation on July 1, 2004, positions he still holds as of
this filing date.    

Stephen D. Pryor   
     
   Vice President   

Held current title since:   
     
  December 1, 2004  
        
  Age: 62   
 
    Mr. Stephen D. Pryor was President of ExxonMobil Refining   Supply Company and Vice President of Exxon Mobil Corporation
December 1, 2004   March 31, 2008. He became President of ExxonMobil Chemical Company and Vice President of Exxon Mobil Corporation on April 1, 2008, positions he still holds as of this filing date.    

David S. Rosenthal   
     
   Vice President - Investor Relations and Secretary   

Held current title since:   
     
  October 1, 2008  
        
  Age: 55   
 
    Mr. David S. Rosenthal was Assistant Controller of Exxon Mobil Corporation June 1, 2006   September 30, 2008. He became
Vice President Investor Relations and Secretary of Exxon Mobil Corporation on October 1, 2008, positions he still holds as of this filing date.    
 
         28   

Table of Contents  

  Index to Financial Statements  

Thomas R. Walters   
     
   Vice President   

Held current title since:   
     
  April 1, 2009  
        
  Age: 57   
 
    Mr. Thomas R. Walters was President of ExxonMobil Global Services Company from September 1, 2005   April 4, 2007. He was
Executive Vice President of ExxonMobil Development Company April 13, 2007   April 1, 2009. He became President of ExxonMobil Gas   Power Marketing Company and Vice President of Exxon Mobil Corporation on April 1, 2009,
positions he still holds as of this filing date.    
     
    Officers are generally elected by the Board of Directors at its meeting on the day of each annual election of
directors, with each such officer serving until a successor has been elected and qualified.   
         29   

Table of Contents  

  Index to Financial Statements  

    PART II        

ITEM 5.   
   MARKET FOR REGISTRANT S COMMON EQUITY, RELATED STOCKHOLDER MATTERS AND ISSUER PURCHASES OF EQUITY SECURITIES.      
  Reference is made to the  Quarterly Information  portion of the Financial Section of this report.   
   
    Note 1 On August 1, 2000, the Corporation announced its intention to resume purchases of shares of its
common stock for the treasury both to offset shares issued in conjunction with company benefit plans and programs and to gradually reduce the number of shares outstanding. The announcement did not specify an amount or expiration date. The
Corporation has continued to purchase shares since this announcement and to report purchased volumes in its quarterly earnings releases. In its most recent earnings release dated January 31, 2012, the Corporation stated that first quarter 2012
share purchases are continuing at a pace consistent with fourth quarter 2011 share reduction spending of $5 billion. Purchases may be made in both the open market and through negotiated transactions, and purchases may be increased, decreased or
discontinued at any time without prior notice.       

ITEM 6.   
   SELECTED FINANCIAL DATA.          

ITEM 7.   
   MANAGEMENT S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS.      
  Reference is made to the section entitled  Management s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations 
in the Financial Section of this report.       

ITEM 7A.   
   QUANTITATIVE AND QUALITATIVE DISCLOSURES ABOUT MARKET RISK.         Reference is made to the section entitled  Market Risks, Inflation and Other Uncertainties , excluding the part entitled  Inflation and Other Uncertainties,  in the Financial Section of this
report. All statements other than historical information incorporated in this Item 7A are forward-looking statements. The actual impact of future market changes could differ materially due to, among other things, factors discussed in this
report.   
         30   

Table of Contents  

  Index to Financial Statements  

ITEM 8.   
   FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND SUPPLEMENTARY DATA.         Reference is made to the following in the Financial Section of this report:       

Consolidated financial statements, together with the report thereon of PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP dated February 24, 2012, beginning with the section entitled
 Report of Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm  and continuing through  Note 20: Subsequent Event       

Quarterly Information  (unaudited);      

Supplemental Information on Oil and Gas Exploration and Production Activities  (unaudited); and      

Frequently Used Terms  (unaudited).         Financial Statement Schedules have been omitted because they are not applicable or the required information is shown in the consolidated financial statements or notes thereto.   

ITEM 9.   
   CHANGES IN AND DISAGREEMENTS WITH ACCOUNTANTS ON ACCOUNTING AND FINANCIAL DISCLOSURE.      
  None.       

ITEM 9A.   
   CONTROLS AND PROCEDURES.          Management s Evaluation of
Disclosure Controls and Procedures       As indicated in the certifications in Exhibit 31 of this report, the Corporation s chief
executive officer, principal financial officer and principal accounting officer have evaluated the Corporation s disclosure controls and procedures as of December 31, 2011. Based on that evaluation, these officers have concluded that the
Corporation s disclosure controls and procedures are effective in ensuring that information required to be disclosed by the Corporation in the reports that it files or submits under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, is
accumulated and communicated to them in a manner that allows for timely decisions regarding required disclosures and are effective in ensuring that such information is recorded, processed, summarized and reported within the time periods specified in
the Securities and Exchange Commission s rules and forms.       Management s Report on Internal Control Over Financial Reporting    
  Management, including the Corporation s chief executive officer, principal financial officer and principal accounting officer, is
responsible for establishing and maintaining adequate internal control over the Corporation s financial reporting. Management conducted an evaluation of the effectiveness of internal control over financial reporting based on criteria
established in Internal Control - Integrated Framework issued by the Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of the Treadway Commission. Based on this evaluation, management concluded that Exxon Mobil Corporation s internal control over financial
reporting was effective as of December 31, 2011.      PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP, an independent registered public accounting firm,
audited the effectiveness of the Corporation s internal control over financial reporting as of December 31, 2011, as stated in their report included in the Financial Section of this report.   
   Changes in Internal Control Over Financial Reporting       There were no changes during the Corporation s last fiscal quarter that materially affected, or are reasonably likely to materially affect, the Corporation s internal control over financial reporting.

ITEM 9B.   
   OTHER INFORMATION.         Effective April 1,
2012, the annual salary for Michael J. Dolan will increase to $1,100,000. Like all other ExxonMobil executive officers, Mr. Dolan is an  at-will  employee of the Corporation and does not have an employment contract.   
         31   

Table of Contents  

  Index to Financial Statements  

    PART III        

ITEM 10.   
   DIRECTORS, EXECUTIVE OFFICERS AND CORPORATE GOVERNANCE.         Incorporated by reference to the following from the registrant s definitive proxy statement for the 2012 annual meeting of shareholders (the  2012 Proxy Statement ):   

The section entitled  Election of Directors       

The portion entitled  Section 16(a) Beneficial Ownership Reporting Compliance  of the section entitled  Director and Executive Officer
Stock Ownership       

The portions entitled  Director Qualifications  and  Code of Ethics and Business Conduct  of the section entitled  Corporate
Governance  and      

The  Audit Committee  portion and the membership table of the portion entitled  Board Meetings and Committees; Annual Meeting Attendance 
of the section entitled  Corporate Governance .          

ITEM 11.   
   EXECUTIVE COMPENSATION.         Incorporated by
reference to the sections entitled  Director Compensation,   Compensation Committee Report,   Compensation Discussion and Analysis  and  Executive Compensation Tables  of the registrant s 2012 Proxy
Statement.       

ITEM 12.   
   SECURITY OWNERSHIP OF CERTAIN BENEFICIAL OWNERS AND MANAGEMENT AND RELATED STOCKHOLDER MATTERS.      
  The information required under Item 403 of Regulation S-K is incorporated by reference to the sections  Director and Executive Officer Stock
Ownership  and  Certain Beneficial Owners  of the registrant s 2012 Proxy Statement.       Equity Compensation Plan
Information            

(a)   

(b)   

(c)   

Plan Category  
     
  Number of Securities to be Issued Upon Exercise of Outstanding Options, Warrants and
Rights  

Weighted- Average Exercise Price of Outstanding Options, Warrants
and Rights    

Number of Securities Remaining Available for Future Issuance Under Equity
Compensation Plans [Excluding Securities Reflected in Column (a)]  

Equity compensation plans approved by security holders   

10,003,584        
     (1)(2)      

133,900,228        
     (2)(3)(4)       

Equity compensation plans not approved by security holders   

Total   

10,003,584  

133,900,228  

(1)   
   The number of restricted stock units to be settled in shares.          

(2)   
   Does not include options that ExxonMobil assumed in the 2010 merger with XTO Energy Inc. At year-end 2011, the number of securities to be issued upon exercise of
outstanding options under XTO Energy Inc. plans was 5,548,629, and the weighted-average exercise price of such options was $69.76. No additional awards may be made under those plans.      

(4)   
   Under the 2004 Non-Employee Director Restricted Stock Plan approved by shareholders in May 2004, and the related standing resolution adopted by the Board, each non-employee
director automatically receives 8,000 shares of restricted stock when first elected to the Board and, if the director remains in office, an additional 2,500 restricted shares each following year. While on the Board, each non-employee director
receives the same cash dividends on restricted shares as a holder of regular common stock, but the director is not allowed to sell the shares. The restricted shares may be forfeited if the director leaves the Board early.
     
         32   

Table of Contents  

  Index to Financial Statements  

ITEM 13.   
   CERTAIN RELATIONSHIPS AND RELATED TRANSACTIONS, AND DIRECTOR INDEPENDENCE.         Information provided in response to this Item 13 is incorporated by reference to the portions entitled  Related Person Transactions and Procedures  and  Director Independence  of the section
entitled  Corporate Governance  of the registrant s 2012 Proxy Statement.       

ITEM 14.   
   PRINCIPAL ACCOUNTING FEES AND SERVICES.      
  Incorporated by reference to the portion entitled  Audit Committee  of the section entitled  Corporate Governance  and the
section entitled  Ratification of Independent Auditors  of the registrant s 2012 Proxy Statement.       PART IV

ITEM 15.   
   EXHIBITS, FINANCIAL STATEMENT SCHEDULES.          

(a)  
  (1) and (2) Financial Statements:     

See Table of Contents of the Financial Section of this report.         

(a)  
  (3) Exhibits:     

See Index to Exhibits of this report.     
         33   

Table of Contents  

  Index to Financial Statements  

           [THIS PAGE
INTENTIONALLY LEFT BLANK]           
     
         34   

Table of Contents  

  Index to Financial Statements  

      FINANCIAL SECTION    
     TABLE OF CONTENTS        

Business Profile    

36  

Financial Summary    

37  

Frequently Used Terms    

38  

Quarterly Information    

40  

Management s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations    

Functional Earnings    

41  

Forward-Looking Statements    

42  

Overview    

42  

Business Environment and Risk Assessment    

42  

Review of 2011 and 2010 Results    

44  

Liquidity and Capital Resources    

46  

Capital and Exploration Expenditures    

49  

Taxes    

49  

Environmental Matters    

49  

Market Risks, Inflation and Other Uncertainties    

50  

Critical Accounting Estimates     

51  

Management s Report on Internal Control Over Financial Reporting    

54  

Report of Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm    

55  

Consolidated Financial Statements   

Statement of Income    

56  

Balance Sheet    

57  

Statement of Cash Flows    

58  

Statement of Changes in Equity    

59  

Statement of Comprehensive Income    

60  

Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements    

1. Summary of Accounting Policies    

61  

2. Accounting Changes    

63  

3. Miscellaneous Financial Information    

63  

4. Cash Flow Information    

63  

5. Additional Working Capital Information    

64  

6. Equity Company Information    

64  

7. Investments, Advances and Long-Term Receivables    

65  

8. Property, Plant and Equipment and Asset Retirement Obligations    

65  

9. Accounting for Suspended Exploratory Well Costs    

66  

10. Leased Facilities    

68  

11. Earnings Per Share    

68  

12. Financial Instruments and Derivatives.    

68  

13. Long-Term Debt    

69  

14. Incentive Program.    

76  

15. Litigation and Other Contingencies    

78  

16. Pension and Other Postretirement Benefits    

80  

17. Disclosures about Segments and Related Information    

87  

18. Income, Sales-Based and Other Taxes    

89  

19. Acquisition of XTO Energy Inc.    

91  

20. Subsequent Event     

92  

Supplemental Information on Oil and Gas Exploration and Production Activities    

93  

Operating Summary    

108  

35   

Table of Contents  

  Index to Financial Statements  

      BUSINESS PROFILE    

(1)   
   Gas converted to oil-equivalent at 6 million cubic feet = 1 thousand barrels.      
         36   

Table of Contents  

  Index to Financial Statements  

      FINANCIAL SUMMARY    

(2)   
   Debt net of cash, excluding restricted cash.          

(3)   
   Regular employees are defined as active executive, management, professional, technical and wage employees who work full time or part time for the Corporation and are
covered by the Corporation s benefit plans and programs.          

(4)   
   CORS employees are employees of company-operated retail sites.      
         37   

Table of Contents  

  Index to Financial Statements  

      FREQUENTLY USED TERMS       Listed below are definitions of several of ExxonMobil s key business and financial performance measures. These definitions are provided to facilitate understanding of the terms and their calculation.
      CASH FLOW FROM OPERATIONS AND ASSET SALES    
  Cash flow from operations and asset sales is the sum of the net cash provided by operating activities and proceeds associated with sales of subsidiaries,
property, plant and equipment, and sales and returns of investments from the Consolidated Statement of Cash Flows. This cash flow reflects the total sources of cash from both operating the Corporation s assets and from the divesting of assets.
The Corporation employs a long-standing and regular disciplined review process to ensure that all assets are contributing to the Corporation s strategic objectives. Assets are divested when they are no longer meeting these objectives or are
worth considerably more to others. Because of the regular nature of this activity, we believe it is useful for investors to consider proceeds associated with asset sales together with cash provided by operating activities when evaluating cash
available for investment in the business and financing activities, including shareholder distributions.       
     CAPITAL EMPLOYED       Capital
employed is a measure of net investment. When viewed from the perspective of how the capital is used by the businesses, it includes ExxonMobil s net share of property, plant and equipment and other assets less liabilities, excluding both
short-term and long-term debt. When viewed from the perspective of the sources of capital employed in total for the Corporation, it includes ExxonMobil s share of total debt and equity. Both of these views include ExxonMobil s share of
amounts applicable to equity companies, which the Corporation believes should be included to provide a more comprehensive measure of capital employed.       
 
         38   

Table of Contents  

  Index to Financial Statements  

    RETURN ON AVERAGE CAPITAL EMPLOYED       Return on average capital employed (ROCE) is a performance measure ratio. From the perspective of the business segments, ROCE is annual business segment earnings divided by average business segment capital
employed (average of beginning and end-of-year amounts). These segment earnings include ExxonMobil s share of segment earnings of equity companies, consistent with our capital employed definition, and exclude the cost of financing. The
Corporation s total ROCE is net income attributable to ExxonMobil excluding the after-tax cost of financing, divided by total corporate average capital employed. The Corporation has consistently applied its ROCE definition for many years and
views it as the best measure of historical capital productivity in our capital-intensive, long-term industry, both to evaluate management s performance and to demonstrate to shareholders that capital has been used wisely over the long term.
Additional measures, which are more cash flow based, are used to make investment decisions.       
 
         39   

Table of Contents  

  Index to Financial Statements  

      QUARTERLY INFORMATION    

(1)   
   Gas converted to oil-equivalent at 6 million cubic feet = 1 thousand barrels.      

(2)   
   Includes amounts for sales-based taxes.          

(3)   
   Gross profit equals sales and other operating revenue less estimated costs associated with products sold.      

(4)   
   Computed using the average number of shares outstanding during each period. The sum of the four quarters may not add to the full year.      
      The price range of ExxonMobil common stock is as reported on the composite tape of the
several U.S. exchanges where ExxonMobil common stock is traded. The principal market where ExxonMobil common stock (XOM) is traded is the New York Stock Exchange, although the stock is traded on other exchanges in and outside the United
States.      There were 488,846 registered shareholders of ExxonMobil common stock at December 31, 2011. At January 31, 2012,
the registered shareholders of ExxonMobil common stock numbered 486,416.      On January 25, 2012, the Corporation declared a $0.47
dividend per common share, payable March 9, 2012.   
         40   

Table of Contents  

  Index to Financial Statements  

      MANAGEMENT S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF
OPERATIONS        
        References in this discussion to total corporate earnings
mean net income attributable to ExxonMobil (U.S. GAAP) from the consolidated income statement. Unless otherwise indicated, references to earnings, special items, Upstream, Downstream, Chemical and Corporate and Financing segment earnings, and
earnings per share are ExxonMobil s share after excluding amounts attributable to noncontrolling interests.         
         41   

Table of Contents  

  Index to Financial Statements  

MANAGEMENT S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS    
     
      FORWARD-LOOKING STATEMENTS    
  Statements in this discussion regarding expectations, plans and future events or conditions are forward-looking statements. Actual future results, including
demand growth and energy source mix; capacity increases; production growth and mix; rates of field decline; financing sources; the resolution of contingencies and uncertain tax positions; environmental and capital expenditures; could differ
materially depending on a number of factors, such as changes in the supply of and demand for crude oil, natural gas, and petroleum and petrochemical products; the outcome of commercial negotiations; political or regulatory events, and other factors
discussed herein and in Item 1A. Risk Factors.         OVERVIEW       The following discussion and analysis of ExxonMobil s financial results, as well as the accompanying financial statements and related notes to consolidated financial statements to which they refer, are the
responsibility of the management of Exxon Mobil Corporation. The Corporation s accounting and financial reporting fairly reflect its straightforward business model involving the extracting, manufacturing and marketing of hydrocarbons and
hydrocarbon-based products. The Corporation s business model involves the production (or purchase), manufacture and sale of physical products, and all commercial activities are directly in support of the underlying physical movement
of goods.      ExxonMobil, with its resource base, financial strength, disciplined investment approach and technology portfolio, is
well-positioned to participate in substantial investments to develop new energy supplies. While commodity prices are volatile on a short-term basis and depend on supply and demand, ExxonMobil s investment decisions are based on our long-term
business outlook, using a disciplined approach in selecting and pursuing the most attractive investment opportunities. The corporate plan is a fundamental annual management process that is the basis for setting near-term operating and capital
objectives in addition to providing the longer-term economic assumptions used for investment evaluation purposes. Volumes are based on individual field production profiles, which are also updated annually. Prices for crude oil, natural gas and
refined products are based on corporate plan assumptions developed annually by major region and are utilized for investment evaluation purposes. Potential investment opportunities are tested over a wide range of economic scenarios to establish the
resiliency of each opportunity. Once investments are made, a reappraisal process is completed to ensure relevant lessons are learned and improvements are incorporated into future projects.         BUSINESS ENVIRONMENT AND RISK ASSESSMENT        Long-Term Business Outlook
      By 2040, the world s population is projected to grow to approximately 8.7 billion people, or about 1.9 billion more than in 2010. Coincident
with this population increase, the Corporation expects worldwide economic growth to average close to 3 percent per year. Expanding prosperity across a growing global population is expected to coincide with an increase in primary energy demand of
about 30 percent by 2040 versus 2010, even with substantial efficiency gains around the world. This demand increase is expected to be concentrated in developing countries (i.e., those that are not member nations of the Organization for Economic
Cooperation and Development).      As economic progress drives demand higher, increasing penetration of energy-efficient and
lower-emission fuels, technologies and practices are expected to contribute to significantly lower levels of energy consumption and emissions per unit of economic output over time. Efficiency gains will result from anticipated improvements in the
transportation and power generation sectors, driven by the introduction of new technologies, as well as many other improvements that span the residential, commercial and industrial sectors.   
  Energy for transportation   including cars, trucks, ships, trains and airplanes   is expected to increase by nearly 45 percent from
2010 to 2040. The global growth in transportation demand is likely to account for approximately 75 percent of the growth in liquids demand over this period. Nearly all the world s transportation fleets are likely to continue to run on liquid
fuels because they provide a large quantity of energy in small volumes, making them easy to transport and widely available.      Demand
for electricity around the world is estimated to increase approximately 80 percent by 2040, led by growth in developing countries. Consistent with this projection, power generation will remain the largest and fastest-growing major segment of global
energy demand. Meeting the expected growth in power demand will require a diverse set of energy sources. Natural gas demand is likely to grow most significantly and gain the most market share. Coal is likely to retain the leading share of power
generation fuels in 2040, albeit at a much lower share than in 2010 as policies are gradually adopted to reduce environmental impacts including those related to local air quality and greenhouse gas emissions. Nuclear power and renewables, led by
wind, are likely to grow significantly over the period.      Liquid fuels provide the largest share of energy supply today due to their
broad-based availability, affordability and ease of transport to meet consumer needs. By 2040, global demand for liquids is expected to grow to approximately 112 million barrels of oil-equivalent per day, an increase of more than 25 percent from
2010. Global demand for liquid fuels will be met by a wide variety of sources. Conventional crude and condensate production is expected to remain relatively flat through 2040. However, growth is expected from a wide variety of sources, including
deep-water resources, oil sands, tight oil, natural gas liquids, and biofuels. The world s resource base is sufficient to meet projected demand through 2040 as technology advances continue to expand the availability of economic supply options.
However, access to resources and timely investments will remain critical to meeting global needs with reliable, affordable supplies.   
  Natural gas is a versatile fuel for a wide variety of applications, and is expected to be the fastest growing major fuel source through 2040.
Global demand is expected to rise 60 percent by 2040 compared to 2010, with demand increases in major regions around the world requiring new sources of supply. We expect that a significant growth in supplies of unconventional gas   the
  
         42   

Table of Contents  

  Index to Financial Statements  

natural gas found in shale and other rock formations that was once considered uneconomic to produce   will help meet these needs. By 2040, unconventional gas is likely to account for about
30 percent of global gas supplies, up from 10 percent in 2010. Growing natural gas demand is likely to also stimulate significant growth in the worldwide liquefied natural gas (LNG) market, which is expected to reach 15 percent of global gas demand
by 2040.      The world s energy mix is highly diverse and will remain so through 2040. Oil is expected to remain the largest source
of energy with its share remaining close to one-third in 2040. Coal is currently the second largest source of energy, but it is likely to lose that position to natural gas by approximately 2025. The share of natural gas is expected to exceed 25
percent by 2040, while the share of coal falls to less than 20 percent. Nuclear power is projected to grow significantly, albeit at a slower pace than otherwise expected in the aftermath of the Fukushima incident in Japan following the earthquake
and tsunami in March 2011. Total renewable energy is likely to reach close to 15 percent of total energy by 2040, including biomass, hydro and geothermal at a combined share of about 11 percent. Total energy supplied from wind, solar and biofuels is
expected to increase close to 500 percent from 2010 to 2040, reaching a combined share of approximately 4 percent of world energy.   
  The Corporation anticipates that the world s available oil and gas resource base will grow not only from new discoveries, but also from
reserve increases in previously discovered fields. Technology will underpin these increases. The cost to develop and supply these resources will be significant. According to the International Energy Agency, the investment required to meet total oil
and gas energy needs worldwide over the period 2011-2035 will be close to $20 trillion (measured in 2010 dollars) or close to $780 billion per year on average.      International accords and underlying regional and national regulations for greenhouse gas reduction are evolving with uncertain timing and outcome, making it difficult to predict their business impact.
ExxonMobil includes estimates of potential costs related to possible public policies covering energy-related greenhouse gas emissions in its long-term Energy Outlook, which is used for assessing the business environment and in its investment
evaluations.      The information provided in the Long-Term Business Outlook includes ExxonMobil s internal estimates and forecasts
based upon internal data and analyses as well as publicly available information from external sources including the International Energy Agency.   
   Upstream       ExxonMobil continues to maintain a diverse
portfolio of exploration and development opportunities, which enables the Corporation to be selective, maximizing shareholder value and mitigating political and technical risks. ExxonMobil s fundamental Upstream business strategies guide our
global exploration, development, production, and gas and power marketing activities. These strategies include identifying and selectively capturing the highest quality exploration opportunities, maximizing the profitability of existing oil and gas
production, investing in projects that deliver superior returns, capitalizing on growing natural gas and power markets, and maximizing resource value through high-impact technologies. These strategies are underpinned by a relentless focus on
operational excellence, commitment to innovative technologies, development of our employees, and investment in the communities within which we operate.      As future development projects and drilling activities bring new production online, the Corporation expects a shift in the geographic mix of its production volumes between now and 2016. Oil and natural gas
output from North America is expected to increase over the next five years based on current capital activity plans. Currently, this growth area accounts for 30 percent of the Corporation s production. By 2016, it is expected to generate about
35 percent of total volumes. The remainder of the Corporation s production is expected to include contributions from both established operations and new projects around the globe.   
  In addition to an evolving geographic mix, we expect there will also be continued change in the type of opportunities from which volumes are
produced. Production from diverse resource types utilizing specialized technologies such as arctic technology, deepwater drilling and production systems, heavy oil and oil sands recovery processes, unconventional gas and oil production and LNG is
expected to grow from about 45 percent to around 50 percent of the Corporation s output between now and 2016. We do not anticipate that the expected change in the geographic mix of production volumes, and in the types of opportunities from
which volumes will be produced, will have a material impact on the nature and the extent of the risks disclosed in Item 1A. Risk Factors, or result in a material change in our level of unit operating expenses. The Corporation s overall volume
capacity outlook, based on projects coming onstream as anticipated, is for production capacity to grow over the period 2012-2016. However, actual volumes will vary from year to year due to the timing of individual project start-ups and other capital
activities, operational outages, reservoir performance, performance of enhanced oil recovery projects, regulatory changes, asset sales, weather events, price effects under production sharing contracts and other factors described in Item 1A.
Risk Factors. Enhanced oil recovery projects extract hydrocarbons from reservoirs in excess of that which may be produced through primary recovery, i.e., through pressure depletion or natural aquifer support. They include the injection of water,
gases or chemicals into a reservoir to produce hydrocarbons otherwise unobtainable.       Downstream    
  ExxonMobil s Downstream is a large, diversified business with refining and marketing complexes around the world. The Corporation has a strong presence in
mature markets in North America and Europe, as well as the growing Asia Pacific region. ExxonMobil s fundamental Downstream business strategies position the company to deliver long-term growth in shareholder value that is superior to
competition across a range of market conditions. These strategies include maintaining best-in-class operations in all aspects of the business, maximizing value from leading-edge technologies, capitalizing on integration across ExxonMobil businesses,
selectively investing for resilient, advantaged returns, leading the industry in efficiency and effectiveness, and providing quality, valued products and services to customers.   
         43   

Table of Contents  

  Index to Financial Statements  

MANAGEMENT S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS    
     
   ExxonMobil has an ownership interest in 36 refineries, located in 21 countries, with
distillation capacity of 6.2 million barrels per day and lubricant basestock manufacturing capacity of 131 thousand barrels per day. ExxonMobil s fuels and lubes marketing business portfolios include operations around the world, with multiple
channels to market serving a globally diverse customer base. Our world-class brands, including  Exxon ,  Mobil  and  Esso , are well-known.      The downstream industry environment remains challenging. Although demand for refined products has improved from the lower levels in 2009 due to the global economic recession, we expect the challenging business
environment to continue, reflecting the increase in global refining capacity and regulatory related policies. Over the prior 20-year period, inflation-adjusted refining margins have been flat.   
  Refining margins are largely driven by differences in commodity prices and are a function of the difference between what a refinery pays for its
raw materials (primarily crude oil) and the market prices for the range of products produced (primarily gasoline, heating oil, diesel oil, jet fuel and fuel oil). Crude oil and many products are widely traded with published prices, including those
quoted on multiple exchanges around the world (e.g., New York Mercantile Exchange and Intercontinental Exchange). Prices for these commodities are determined by the global marketplace and are influenced by many factors, including global and regional
supply/demand balances, inventory levels, refinery operations, import/export balances, currency fluctuations, seasonal demand, weather and political climate.      ExxonMobil s long-term outlook is that refining margins will remain weak as competition in the industry remains intense and, in the near term, new capacity additions outpace the growth in global demand.
Additionally, as described in more detail in Item 1A. Risk Factors, proposed carbon policy and other climate-related regulations in many countries, as well as the continued growth in biofuels mandates, could have negative impacts on the refining
business.      In the retail fuels marketing business, competition continues to cause inflation-adjusted margins to decline. In 2011,
ExxonMobil progressed the transition of the direct served (i.e., dealer, company-operated) retail network in the U.S. to a more capital-efficient branded distributor model. This transition was announced in 2008 and is expected to be complete in
2012.      Our Lubricants and Specialties business continues to grow. ExxonMobil is a market leader in high-value synthetic lubricants,
and we continue to grow our business in key markets such as China, India and Russia at rates considerably faster than industry.      The
Downstream portfolio is continually evaluated during all parts of the business cycle, and numerous asset divestments have been made over the past decade. In 2011, we announced divestments of our Downstream businesses in Argentina, Uruguay, Paraguay,
Central America, Malaysia, and Switzerland. In January 2012, we also announced the restructuring of our holdings in Japan which is disclosed in Note 20. When investing in the Downstream, ExxonMobil remains focused on selective and resilient
projects. These investments capitalize on the Corporation s world-class scale and integration, industry leading efficiency, leading-edge technology and respected brands, enabling ExxonMobil to take advantage of attractive emerging growth
opportunities around the globe. In 2011, the company completed construction of new units and modification of existing facilities at the Sriracha, Thailand, refinery to produce lower sulfur diesel and gasoline to meet upcoming product specifications
in Thailand. At the Jurong/PAC refinery in Singapore, plans are under way to build a new diesel hydrotreater, which will add capacity of more than 2 million gallons per day to meet increasing demand in the Asia Pacific region. Additionally,
construction of a lower sulfur fuels project has begun at the joint Saudi Aramco and ExxonMobil SAMREF Refinery in Yanbu, Saudi Arabia. The project will include new gasoline and expanded diesel hydrotreating and sulfur recovery equipment, and
completion is expected by the end of 2013. We are also expanding our Singapore and China lube oil blending plants to support future demand growth in these emerging markets.       Chemical       Worldwide petrochemical demand grew modestly in 2011. In North America, unconventional natural gas
continued to provide advantaged ethane feedstock for steam crackers and a favorable margin environment for integrated chemical producers. Margins in Asia Pacific remained low, with new supply capacity outpacing demand. Specialty products overall saw
firm global demand and margins.      ExxonMobil benefited from continued operational excellence and a balanced portfolio of products. In
addition to being a worldwide supplier of commodity petrochemical products, ExxonMobil Chemical also has a number of less-cyclical Specialties business lines, which delivered strong results in 2011. Chemical s competitive advantages are due to
its business mix, broad geographic coverage, investment and cost discipline, integration with refineries or upstream gas processing facilities, superior feedstock management, leading proprietary technology and product application expertise.
        REVIEW OF 2011 AND 2010 RESULTS        
     2011       Earnings in 2011 of
$41,060 million increased $10,600 million from 2010. Earnings for 2011 did not include any special items.       2010    
  Earnings in 2010 of $30,460 million increased $11,180 million from 2009. Earnings for 2010 did not include any special items.   
   Upstream        
 
         44   

Table of Contents  

  Index to Financial Statements  

    2011    
  Upstream earnings were $34,439 million, up $10,342 million from 2010. Higher crude oil and natural gas realizations increased earnings by
$10.6 billion, while volume and production mix effects decreased earnings by $2.5 billion. All other items increased earnings by $2.2 billion, driven by higher gains on asset sales of $2.7 billion, partly offset by increased operating activity.
On an oil-equivalent basis, production was up 1 percent compared to 2010. Excluding the impacts of entitlement volumes, OPEC quota effects and divestments, production was up 4 percent. Liquids production of 2,312 kbd (thousands of barrels per
day) decreased 110 kbd from 2010. Excluding the impacts of entitlement volumes, OPEC quota effects and divestments, liquids production was in line with 2010, as higher volumes from Qatar, the U.S., and Iraq offset field decline. Natural gas
production of 13,162 mcfd (millions of cubic feet per day) increased 1,014 mcfd from 2010, driven by additional U.S. unconventional gas volumes and project ramp-ups in Qatar. Earnings from U.S. Upstream operations for 2011 were
$5,096 million, an increase of $824 million. Earnings outside the U.S. were $29,343 million, up $9,518 million.       2010
      Upstream earnings were $24,097 million, up $6,990 million from 2009. Higher realizations increased earnings approximately $6.5 billion. Higher
volumes increased earnings by $1.2 billion, while all other items, including higher operating costs, decreased earnings by $690 million. On an oil-equivalent basis, production was up 13 percent compared to 2009. Excluding the impacts of entitlement
volumes, OPEC quota effects and divestments, production was up 14 percent. Liquids production of 2,422 kbd increased 35 kbd compared with 2009. Excluding the impacts of entitlement volumes, OPEC quota effects and divestments, liquids production
increased 2 percent from 2009, as project ramp-ups in Qatar were offset by net field decline. Natural gas production of 12,148 mcfd increased 2,875 mcfd from 2009, driven by higher volumes from Qatar projects and additional U.S. unconventional gas
volumes. Earnings from U.S. Upstream operations for 2010 were $4,272 million, an increase of $1,379 million from 2009. Non-U.S. Upstream earnings were $19,825 million, up $5,611 million from 2009.   
   Downstream        
     2011       Downstream earnings
of $4,459 million increased $892 million from 2010. Margins, mainly refining, increased earnings by $800 million. Volume and mix effects improved earnings by $630 million. All other items, primarily the absence of favorable tax effects and
higher expenses, decreased earnings by $540 million. Petroleum product sales of 6,413 kbd were in line with 2010. U.S. Downstream earnings were $2,268 million, up $1,498 million from 2010. Non-U.S. Downstream earnings were $2,191
million, $606 million lower than last year.       2010       Downstream earnings of $3,567 million were $1,786 million higher than 2009. Higher industry refining margins increased earnings by $1.2 billion. Positive volume and mix effects increased earnings by $420
million, while all other items, including lower operating expenses, increased earnings by $210 million. Petroleum product sales of 6,414 kbd decreased 14 kbd. U.S. Downstream earnings were $770 million, up $923 million from 2009. Non-U.S. Downstream
earnings were $2,797 million, $863 million higher than 2009.       Chemical    
   
     2011       Chemical earnings
of $4,383 million were down $530 million from 2010. Stronger margins increased earnings by $260 million, while lower volumes reduced earnings by $180 million. Other items, including unfavorable tax effects and higher planned
maintenance expense, decreased earnings by $610 million. Prime product sales of 25,006 kt (thousands of metric tons) were down 885 kt from 2010. Prime product sales are total chemical product sales, including ExxonMobil s share of
equity-company volumes and finished product transfers to the Downstream business. U.S. Chemical earnings were $2,215 million, down $207 million from 2010. Non-U.S. Chemical earnings were $2,168 million, $323 million lower than last
year.       2010       Chemical earnings were a record
$4,913 million, up $2,604 million from 2009. Improved margins increased earnings by $2.0 billion while higher volumes increased earnings $380 million. Prime product sales of 25,891 kt were up 1,066 kt from 2009. U.S. Chemical earnings of $2,422
million increased $1,653 million. Non-U.S. Chemical earnings of $2,491 million increased $951 million.       Corporate and Financing    
   
     2011       Corporate and
financing expenses were $2,221 million, up $104 million from 2010.       2010       Corporate and financing expenses were $2,117 million, up $200 million from 2009 mainly due to a tax charge related to the U.S.   
         45   

Table of Contents  

  Index to Financial Statements  

MANAGEMENT S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS    

health care legislation during the first quarter of 2010 and financing activities, partially offset by the absence of a 2009 charge for interest related to the Valdez punitive damages award.
        LIQUIDITY AND CAPITAL RESOURCES        Sources and Uses of Cash        
    Total cash and cash equivalents were $13.1 billion at the end of 2011, $4.6 billion higher than the prior year. Higher earnings,
proceeds associated with asset sales, including a $3.6 billion deposit for a potential asset sale, and a net debt increase in contrast with prior year debt repurchases were partially offset by a higher level of purchases of ExxonMobil shares and a
higher level of capital spending. Included in total cash and cash equivalents at year-end 2011 was $0.4 billion of restricted cash.   
  Total cash and cash equivalents were $8.5 billion at the end of 2010, $2.2 billion lower than the prior year. Higher earnings and reduced share
purchases were offset by a higher level of capital spending and increased level of debt repurchases. Included in total cash and cash equivalents at year-end 2010 was $0.6 billion of restricted cash. For additional details, see the Consolidated
Statement of Cash Flows.      Although the Corporation has access to significant capacity of long-term and short-term liquidity,
internally generated funds cover the majority of its financial requirements. Cash that may be temporarily available as surplus to the Corporation s immediate needs is carefully managed through counterparty quality and investment guidelines to
ensure it is secure and readily available to meet the Corporation s cash requirements and to optimize returns.      To support cash
flows in future periods the Corporation will need to continually find and develop new fields, and continue to develop and apply new technologies and recovery processes to existing fields, in order to maintain or increase production. After a period
of production at plateau rates, it is the nature of oil and gas fields eventually to produce at declining rates for the remainder of their economic life. Averaged over all the Corporation s existing oil and gas fields and without new projects,
ExxonMobil s production is expected to decline at an average of approximately 3 percent per year over the next few years. Decline rates can vary widely by individual field due to a number of factors, including, but not limited to, the type of
reservoir, fluid properties, recovery mechanisms, work activity, and age of the field. Furthermore, the Corporation s net interest in production for individual fields can vary with price and contractual terms.   
  The Corporation has long been successful at offsetting the effects of natural field decline through disciplined investments in quality
opportunities and project execution. Over the last decade, this has resulted in net annual additions to proved reserves that have exceeded the amount produced. Projects are in progress or planned to increase production capacity. However, these
volume increases are subject to a variety of risks including project start-up timing, operational outages, reservoir performance, crude oil and natural gas prices, weather events, and regulatory changes. The Corporation s cash flows are also
highly dependent on crude oil and natural gas prices. Please refer to Item 1A. Risk Factors for a more complete discussion of risks.      The Corporation s financial strength enables it to make large, long-term capital expenditures. Capital and exploration expenditures in 2011 were $36.8 billion, reflecting the Corporation s continued
active investment program. The Corporation anticipates an investment profile of about $37 billion per year for the next several years. Actual spending could vary depending on the progress of individual projects. The Corporation has a large and
diverse portfolio of development projects and exploration opportunities, which helps mitigate the overall political and technical risks of the Corporation s Upstream segment and associated cash flow. Further, due to its financial strength, debt
capacity and diverse portfolio of opportunities, the risk associated with failure or delay of any single project would not have a significant impact on the Corporation s liquidity or ability to generate sufficient cash flows for operations and
its fixed commitments. The purchase and sale of oil and gas properties have not had a significant impact on the amount or timing of cash flows from operating activities.       Cash Flow from Operating Activities        2011       Cash provided by operating activities totaled $55.3 billion in 2011, $6.9 billion higher than 2010. The major source of funds was net income including noncontrolling interests of $42.2 billion, adjusted for the
noncash provision of $15.6 billion for depreciation and depletion, both of which increased. Changes in operational working capital, excluding cash and debt, and the adjustment for net gains on asset sales decreased cash in 2011. Net working capital
continued to be negative as total current liabilities of $77.5 billion exceeded total current assets of $73.0 billion at year-end 2011.       2010
      Cash provided by operating activities totaled $48.4 billion in 2010, $20.0 billion higher than 2009. The major source of funds was net
income including noncontrolling interests of $31.4 billion, adjusted for the noncash provision of $14.8 billion for depreciation and depletion, both of which increased. The net effects of changes in prices and the timing of collection of accounts
receivable and of   
         46   

Table of Contents  

  Index to Financial Statements  

payments of accounts and other payables and of income taxes payable increased cash provided by operating activities in 2010 compared to a decrease in 2009, and resulted in net working
capital of $(3.6) billion as total current liabilities of $62.6 billion exceeded total current assets of $59.0 billion at year-end 2010.       Cash Flow
from Investing Activities        2011       Cash used
in investment activities netted to $22.2 billion in 2011, $2.0 billion lower than 2010. Spending for property, plant and equipment of $31.0 billion increased $4.1 billion from 2010. Proceeds associated with sales of subsidiaries, property, plant and
equipment, and sales and returns of investments of $11.1 billion compared to $3.3 billion in 2010. The increase primarily reflects the sale of Upstream Canadian, U.K. and other producing properties and assets, the sale of U.S. service stations, and
a $3.6 billion deposit for a potential asset sale. Additional investments and advances were $2.3 billion higher in 2011.       2010    
  Cash used in investment activities netted to $24.2 billion in 2010, $1.8 billion higher than in 2009. Spending for property, plant and equipment of $26.9 billion
increased $4.4 billion from 2009. Proceeds from the sale of subsidiaries, investments and property, plant and equipment of $3.3 billion in 2010 compared to $1.5 billion in 2009, the increase reflecting the sale of some U.S. service stations and
Upstream Gulf of Mexico and other producing properties.       Cash Flow from Financing Activities    
   2011       Cash used in financing activities was $28.3 billion
in 2011, $1.3 billion higher than 2010. Dividend payments on common shares increased to $1.85 per share from $1.74 per share and totaled $9.0 billion, a pay-out of 22 percent. Total debt increased $2.0 billion to $17.0 billion at year-end.
     ExxonMobil share of equity increased $7.6 billion to $154.4 billion. The addition to equity for earnings of $41.1 billion was
partially offset by reductions for distributions to ExxonMobil shareholders of $9.0 billion of dividends and $20.0 billion of purchases of shares of ExxonMobil stock to reduce shares outstanding. The change in the funded status of the postretirement
benefits reserves in 2011 decreased equity by $4.6 billion.      During 2011, Exxon Mobil Corporation purchased 278 million shares of its
common stock for the treasury at a gross cost of $22.1 billion. These purchases were to reduce the number of shares outstanding and to offset shares issued in conjunction with company benefit plans and programs. Shares outstanding were reduced by
4.9 percent from 4,979 million to 4,734 million at the end of 2011. Purchases were made in both the open market and through negotiated transactions. Purchases may be increased, decreased or discontinued at any time without prior notice.   
   2010       Cash used in financing activities was $26.9 billion
in 2010, $0.4 billion lower than 2009. Dividend payments on common shares increased to $1.74 per share from $1.66 per share and totaled $8.5 billion, a pay-out of 28 percent. Total debt increased to $15.0 billion at year end, an increase of $5.4
billion from 2009, primarily as a result of debt assumed with the XTO merger.      ExxonMobil share of equity increased $36.3 billion to
$146.8 billion. The addition to equity for earnings of $30.5 billion and the issuance of stock for the XTO merger of $24.7 billion was partially offset by reductions to equity for distributions to ExxonMobil shareholders of $8.5 billion of dividends
and $11.2 billion of purchases of shares of ExxonMobil stock to reduce shares outstanding.      During 2010, Exxon Mobil Corporation
issued 416 million shares for the XTO merger. Exxon Mobil Corporation purchased 199 million shares of its common stock for the treasury at a gross cost of $13.1 billion. These purchases were to reduce the number of shares outstanding
and to offset shares issued in conjunction with company benefit plans and programs. Shares outstanding increased by 5.3 percent from 4,727 million at the end of 2009 to 4,979 million at the end of 2010. Purchases were made in both the open
market and through negotiated transactions.       Commitments       Set forth below is information about the outstanding commitments of the Corporation s consolidated subsidiaries at December 31, 2011. It combines data from the Consolidated Balance Sheet and from
individual notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements.       
    This table excludes commodity purchase obligations (volumetric commitments but no fixed or minimum price) which
are resold shortly after purchase, either in an active, highly liquid market or under long-term, unconditional sales contracts with similar pricing terms. Examples include long-term, noncancelable LNG and natural gas purchase commitments and
commitments to purchase refinery products at market prices. Inclusion of such commitments would not be meaningful in assessing liquidity and cash flow, because these purchases will be offset in the same periods by cash received from the related
sales transactions. The table also excludes unrecognized tax benefits totaling $4.9 billion as of December 31, 2011, because the Corporation is unable to make reasonably reliable estimates of the timing of cash settlements
  
         47   

Table of Contents  

  Index to Financial Statements  

MANAGEMENT S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS    

with the respective taxing authorities. Further details on the unrecognized tax benefits can be found in Note 18, Income, Sales-Based and Other Taxes.   
  Notes:       

(1)   
   Includes capitalized lease obligations of $260 million.          

(2)   
   The amount due in one year is included in notes and loans payable of $7,711 million.      

(3)   
   The fair value of asset retirement obligations, primarily upstream asset removal costs at the completion of field life.      

(4)   
   The amount by which the benefit obligations exceeded the fair value of fund assets for certain U.S. and non-U.S. pension and other postretirement plans at year end. The
payments by period include expected contributions to funded pension plans in 2012 and estimated benefit payments for unfunded plans in all years.          

(5)   
   Minimum commitments for operating leases, shown on an undiscounted basis, cover drilling equipment, tankers, service stations and other properties.

(6)   
   Unconditional purchase obligations (UPOs) are those long-term commitments that are noncancelable or cancelable only under certain conditions, and that third parties have
used to secure financing for the facilities that will provide the contracted goods or services. The undiscounted obligations of $1,313 million mainly pertain to pipeline throughput agreements and include $856 million of obligations to equity
companies.          

(7)   
   Take-or-pay obligations are noncancelable, long-term commitments for goods and services other than UPOs. The undiscounted obligations of $19,021 million mainly pertain to
manufacturing supply, pipeline and terminaling agreements and include $316 million of obligations to equity companies.          

(8)   
   Firm commitments related to capital projects, shown on an undiscounted basis, totaled approximately $27.9 billion. These commitments were primarily associated with Upstream
projects outside the U.S., of which $13.9 billion was associated with projects in Africa, Australia, Malaysia and Canada. The Corporation expects to fund the majority of these projects through internal cash flow.      
   Guarantees       The Corporation and certain of its
consolidated subsidiaries were contingently liable at December 31, 2011, for guarantees relating to notes, loans and performance under contracts (Note 15). The below-mentioned guarantees are not reasonably likely to have a material effect on
the Corporation s financial condition, changes in financial condition, revenues or expenses, results of operations, liquidity, capital expenditures or capital resources.   

(1)   
   ExxonMobil share.          Financial Strength    
  On December 31, 2011, unused credit lines for short-term financing totaled approximately $5.5 billion (Note 5).   
  The table below shows the Corporation s fixed-charge coverage and consolidated debt-to-capital ratios. The data demonstrate the
Corporation s creditworthiness.       
    Management views the Corporation s financial strength, as evidenced by the above financial ratios and other
similar measures, to be a competitive advantage of strategic importance. The Corporation s sound financial position gives it the opportunity to access the world s capital markets in the full range of market conditions, and enables the
Corporation to take on large, long-term capital commitments in the pursuit of maximizing shareholder value.       Litigation and Other Contingencies
      As discussed in Note 15, a variety of claims have been made against ExxonMobil and certain of its consolidated subsidiaries in a number of
pending lawsuits. Based on a consideration of all relevant facts and circumstances, the Corporation does not believe the ultimate outcome of any currently pending lawsuit against ExxonMobil will have a material adverse effect upon the
Corporation s operations, financial condition, or financial statements taken as a whole. There are no events or uncertainties beyond those already included in reported financial information that would indicate a material change in future
operating results or financial condition. Refer to Note 15 for additional information on legal proceedings and other contingencies.         
         48   

Table of Contents  

  Index to Financial Statements  

      CAPITAL AND EXPLORATION EXPENDITURES    

(1)   
   Exploration expenses included.             Capital
and exploration expenditures in 2011 were $36.8 billion, reflecting the Corporation s continued active investment program. The Corporation anticipates an investment profile of about $37 billion per year for the next several years. Actual
spending could vary depending on the progress of individual projects.      Upstream spending of $33.1 billion in 2011 was up 21 percent
from 2010, reflecting unconventional gas activities in the U.S. and continued progress on world-class projects in Australia, Canada and Papua New Guinea. The majority of expenditures are on development projects, which typically take two to four
years from the time of recording proved undeveloped reserves to the start of production from those reserves. The percentage of proved developed reserves was 65 percent of total proved reserves at year-end 2011, and has been over 60 percent for the
last five years, indicating that proved reserves are consistently moved from undeveloped to developed status. Capital investments in the Downstream totaled $2.1 billion in 2011, a decrease of $0.4 billion from 2010, due to completion of
environmental-related refining projects, primarily in the U.S. The Chemical capital expenditures of $1.5 billion were $0.8 billion lower in 2011 as investments in Asia to meet demand growth progressed toward completion.   
     TAXES        
     2011       Income, sales based
and all other taxes and duties totaled $108.1 billion in 2011, an increase of $18.9 billion or 21 percent from 2010. Income tax expense, both current and deferred, was $31.1 billion, $9.5 billion higher than 2010, reflecting higher pre-tax income in
2011. A higher share of pre-tax income from the Upstream segment in 2011 increased the effective tax rate to 46 percent compared to 45 percent in 2010. Sales-based and all other taxes and duties of $77.0 billion in 2011 increased $9.4 billion,
reflecting higher prices.       2010       Income,
sales-based and all other taxes and duties totaled $89.2 billion in 2010, an increase of $10.6 billion or 13 percent from 2009. Income tax expense, both current and deferred, was $21.6 billion, $6.4 billion higher than 2009, reflecting higher
pre-tax income in 2010. A lower share of pre-tax income from the Upstream segment in 2010 decreased the effective tax rate to 45 percent compared to 47 percent in 2009. Sales-based and all other taxes and duties of $67.7 billion in 2010 increased
$4.2 billion, reflecting higher prices.         ENVIRONMENTAL MATTERS    
   Environmental Expenditures        
    Throughout ExxonMobil s businesses, new and ongoing measures are taken to prevent and minimize the impact of our
operations on air, water and ground. These include a significant investment in refining infrastructure and technology to manufacture clean fuels as well as projects to monitor and reduce nitrogen oxide, sulfur oxide and greenhouse gas
emissions and expenditures for asset retirement obligations. ExxonMobil s 2011 worldwide environmental expenditures for all such preventative and remediation steps, including ExxonMobil s share of equity company expenditures, were about
$4.9 billion. The total cost for such activities is expected to remain in this range in 2012 and 2013 (with capital expenditures approximately 45 percent of the total).       Environmental Liabilities       The Corporation accrues environmental liabilities when it is probable that
obligations have been incurred and the amounts can be reasonably estimated. This policy applies to assets or businesses currently owned or previously disposed. ExxonMobil has accrued liabilities for probable environmental remediation obligations at
various sites, including multiparty sites where the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency has identified ExxonMobil as one of the potentially responsible parties. The involvement of other financially responsible companies at these multiparty sites
could mitigate ExxonMobil s actual joint and several liability exposure. At present, no individual site is expected to have losses material to ExxonMobil s operations or financial condition. Consolidated company provisions made in 2011 for
environmental liabilities were $420 million ($448 million in 2010) and the balance sheet reflects accumulated liabilities of $886 million as of December 31, 2011, and $948 million as of December 31, 2010.   
         49   

Table of Contents  

  Index to Financial Statements  

MANAGEMENT S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS    
     
      MARKET RISKS, INFLATION AND OTHER UNCERTAINTIES    

(1)   
   Consolidated subsidiaries.         Crude oil, natural gas,
petroleum product and chemical prices have fluctuated in response to changing market forces. The impacts of these price fluctuations on earnings from Upstream, Downstream and Chemical operations have varied. In the Upstream, a $1 per barrel change
in the weighted-average realized price of oil would have approximately a $350 million annual after-tax effect on Upstream consolidated plus equity company earnings. Similarly, a $0.10 per kcf change in the worldwide average gas realization would
have approximately a $200 million annual after-tax effect on Upstream consolidated plus equity company earnings. For any given period, the extent of actual benefit or detriment will be dependent on the price movements of individual types of crude
oil, taxes and other government take impacts, price adjustment lags in long-term gas contracts, and crude and gas production volumes. Accordingly, changes in benchmark prices for crude oil and natural gas only provide broad indicators of changes in
the earnings experienced in any particular period.      In the very competitive downstream and chemical environments, earnings are
primarily determined by margin capture rather than absolute price levels of products sold. Refining margins are a function of the difference between what a refiner pays for its raw materials (primarily crude oil) and the market prices for the range
of products produced. These prices in turn depend on global and regional supply/demand balances, inventory levels, refinery operations, import/export balances and weather.      The global energy markets can give rise to extended periods in which market conditions are adverse to one or more of the Corporation s businesses. Such conditions, along with the capital-intensive nature of
the industry and very long lead times associated with many of our projects, underscore the importance of maintaining a strong financial position. Management views the Corporation s financial strength as a competitive advantage.   
  In general, segment results are not dependent on the ability to sell and/or purchase products to/from other segments. Instead, where such sales
take place, they are the result of efficiencies and competitive advantages of integrated refinery/chemical complexes. Additionally, intersegment sales are at market-based prices. The products bought and sold between segments can also be acquired in
worldwide markets that have substantial liquidity, capacity and transportation capabilities. About 35 percent of the Corporation s intersegment sales are crude oil produced by the Upstream and sold to the Downstream. Other intersegment sales
include those between refineries and chemical plants related to raw materials, feedstocks and finished products.      Although price
levels of crude oil and natural gas may rise or fall significantly over the short to medium term due to political events, OPEC actions and other factors, industry economics over the long term will continue to be driven by market supply and demand.
Accordingly, the Corporation tests the viability of all of its investments over a broad range of future prices. The Corporation s assessment is that its operations will continue to be successful in a variety of market conditions. This is the
outcome of disciplined investment and asset management programs.      The Corporation has an active asset management program in which
underperforming assets are either improved to acceptable levels or considered for divestment. The asset management program includes a disciplined, regular review to ensure that all assets are contributing to the Corporation s strategic
objectives. The result is an efficient capital base, and the Corporation has seldom had to write down the carrying value of assets, even during periods of low commodity prices.       Risk Management       The Corporation s size, strong capital structure, geographic diversity and the
complementary nature of the Upstream, Downstream and Chemical businesses reduce the Corporation s enterprise-wide risk from changes in interest rates, currency rates and commodity prices. As a result, the Corporation makes limited use of
derivative instruments to mitigate the impact of such changes. With respect to derivatives activities, the Corporation believes that there are no material market or credit risks to the Corporation s financial position, results of operations or
liquidity as a result of the derivatives described in Note 12. The Corporation does not engage in speculative derivative activities or derivative trading activities nor does it use derivatives with leveraged features. Credit risk associated with the
Corporation s derivative position is mitigated by several factors, including the quality of and financial limits placed on derivative counterparties. The Corporation maintains a system of controls that includes the authorization, reporting and
monitoring of derivative activity.      The Corporation is exposed to changes in interest rates, primarily on its short-term debt and the
portion of long-term debt that carries floating interest rates. The impact of a 100-basis-point change in interest rates affecting the Corporation s debt would not be material to earnings, cash flow or fair value. Although the Corporation
issues long-term debt from time to time and maintains a commercial paper program, internally generated funds are expected to cover the majority of its net near-term financial requirements. However, some joint-venture partners are dependent on the
credit markets, and their funding ability may impact the development pace of joint-venture projects.      The Corporation conducts
business in many foreign currencies and is subject to exchange rate risk on cash flows related to sales, expenses, financing and investment transactions. The impacts of fluctuations in exchange rates on ExxonMobil s geographically and
functionally diverse operations are varied and often offsetting in amount. The Corporation makes limited use of currency exchange contracts to mitigate the impact of changes in currency values, and exposures related to the Corporation s limited
use of the currency exchange contracts are not material.   
         50   

Table of Contents  

  Index to Financial Statements  

    Inflation and Other Uncertainties       The general rate of inflation in many major countries of operation has remained moderate over the past few years, and the associated impact on non-energy costs has generally been mitigated by cost reductions
from efficiency and productivity improvements. Increased demand for certain services and materials has resulted in higher operating and capital costs in recent years. The Corporation works to counter upward pressure on costs through its economies of
scale in global procurement and its efficient project management practices.         CRITICAL ACCOUNTING ESTIMATES    
  The Corporation s accounting and financial reporting fairly reflect its straightforward business model involving the extracting, refining and marketing of
hydrocarbons and hydrocarbon-based products. The preparation of financial statements in conformity with U.S. Generally Accepted Accounting Principles (GAAP) requires management to make estimates and judgments that affect the reported amounts of
assets, liabilities, revenues and expenses and the disclosure of contingent assets and liabilities. The Corporation s accounting policies are summarized in Note 1.       Oil and Gas Reserves       Evaluations of oil and gas reserves are important to the effective management of
Upstream assets. They are integral to making investment decisions about oil and gas properties such as whether development should proceed. Oil and gas reserve quantities are also used as the basis for calculating unit-of-production depreciation
rates and for evaluating impairment.      Oil and gas reserves include both proved and unproved reserves. Proved oil and gas reserves are
those quantities of oil and gas, which, by analysis of geoscience and engineering data, can be estimated with reasonable certainty to be economically producible. Unproved reserves are those with less than reasonable certainty of recoverability and
include probable reserves. Probable reserves are reserves that are more likely to be recovered than not.      The estimation of proved
reserves is an ongoing process based on rigorous technical evaluations, commercial and market assessment, and detailed analysis of well information such as flow rates and reservoir pressure declines. The estimation of proved reserves is controlled
by the Corporation through long-standing approval guidelines. Reserve changes are made within a well-established, disciplined process driven by senior level geoscience and engineering professionals, assisted by the Reserves Technical Oversight group
which has significant technical experience, culminating in reviews with and approval by senior management. Notably, the Corporation does not use specific quantitative reserve targets to determine compensation. Key features of the reserve estimation
process are covered in Disclosure of Reserves in Item 2.      Although the Corporation is reasonably certain that proved reserves
will be produced, the timing and amount recovered can be affected by a number of factors including completion of development projects, reservoir performance, regulatory approvals and significant changes in long-term oil and gas price levels.
     Proved reserves can be further subdivided into developed and undeveloped reserves. The percentage of proved developed reserves was 65
percent of total proved reserves at year-end 2011 (including both consolidated and equity company reserves), and has been over 60 percent for the last five years, indicating that proved reserves are consistently moved from undeveloped to developed
status.      Revisions can include upward or downward changes in previously estimated volumes of proved reserves for existing fields due
to the evaluation or re-evaluation of (1) already available geologic, reservoir or production data, (2) new geologic, reservoir or production data or (3) changes in prices and costs that are used in the estimation of reserves.
Revisions can also result from significant changes in development strategy or production equipment/facility capacity.      The Corporation
uses the  successful efforts  method to account for its exploration and production activities. Under this method, costs are accumulated on a field-by-field basis with certain exploratory expenditures and exploratory dry holes being
expensed as incurred. Costs of productive wells and development dry holes are capitalized and amortized on the unit-of-production method.       Impact
of Oil and Gas Reserves on Depreciation.  The calculation of unit-of-production depreciation is a critical accounting estimate that measures the depreciation of upstream assets. It is the ratio of actual volumes produced to total proved developed
reserves (those proved reserves recoverable through existing wells with existing equipment and operating methods), applied to the asset cost. The volumes produced and asset cost are known and, while proved developed reserves have a high probability
of recoverability, they are based on estimates that are subject to some variability. While the revisions the Corporation has made in the past are an indicator of variability, they have had a very small impact on the unit-of-production rates because
they have been small compared to the large reserves base.       Impact of Oil and Gas Reserves and Prices on Testing for Impairment.  Proved oil and
gas properties held and used by the Corporation are reviewed for impairment whenever events or circumstances indicate that the carrying amounts may not be recoverable. Assets are grouped at the lowest level for which there are identifiable cash
flows that are largely independent of the cash flows of other groups of assets.      The Corporation estimates the future undiscounted
cash flows of the affected properties to judge the recoverability of carrying amounts. In general, analyses are based on proved reserves. Where probable reserves exist, an appropriately risk-adjusted amount of these reserves may be included in the
impairment evaluation. An asset would be impaired if the undiscounted cash flows were less than the asset s carrying value. Impairments are measured by the amount by which the carrying value exceeds the asset s fair value.   
  Significant unproved properties are assessed for impairment individually, and valuation allowances against the capitalized costs are recorded
based on the estimated economic chance of success and the length of time that the Corporation expects to hold the   
         51   

Table of Contents  

  Index to Financial Statements  

MANAGEMENT S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS    

properties. Properties that are not individually significant are aggregated by groups and amortized based on development risk and average holding period.   
  The Corporation performs asset valuation analyses on an ongoing basis as a part of its asset management program. These analyses assist the
Corporation in assessing whether the carrying amounts of any of its assets may not be recoverable. In addition to estimating oil and gas reserve volumes in conducting these analyses, it is also necessary to estimate future oil and gas prices.
Trigger events for impairment evaluation include a significant decrease in current and projected reserve volumes, an accumulation of project costs significantly in excess of the amount originally expected, and historical and forecast operating
losses.      In general, the Corporation does not view temporarily low oil and gas prices as a trigger event for conducting the impairment
tests. The markets for crude oil and natural gas have a history of significant price volatility. Although prices will occasionally drop significantly, industry prices over the long term will continue to be driven by market supply and demand. On the
supply side, industry production from mature fields is declining, but this is being offset by production from new discoveries and field developments. OPEC production policies also have an impact on world oil supplies. The demand side is largely a
function of global economic growth. The relative growth/decline in supply versus demand will determine industry prices over the long term, and these cannot be accurately predicted.   
  Accordingly, any impairment tests that the Corporation performs make use of the Corporation s price assumptions developed in the annual
planning and budgeting process for the crude oil and natural gas markets, petroleum products and chemicals. These are the same price assumptions that are used for capital investment decisions. Volumes are based on field production profiles, which
are updated annually. Cash flow estimates for impairment testing exclude the effects of derivative instruments.      Supplemental
information regarding oil and gas results of operations, capitalized costs and reserves is provided following the notes to consolidated financial statements. Future prices used for any impairment tests will vary from the ones used in the
supplemental oil and gas disclosure and could be lower or higher for any given year.       Asset Retirement Obligations (ARO)    
  The Corporation incurs retirement obligations for certain assets at the time they are installed. The fair value of these obligations are recorded as liabilities
on a discounted basis. In the estimation of fair value, the Corporation uses assumptions and judgments regarding such factors as the existence of a legal obligation for an ARO; technical assessments of the assets; estimated amounts and timing of
settlements; discount rates; and inflation rates. AROs are disclosed in Note 8 to the financial statements.       Suspended Exploratory Well Costs
      The Corporation carries as an asset exploratory well costs when the well has found a sufficient quantity of reserves to justify its completion as
a producing well and where the Corporation is making sufficient progress assessing the reserves and the economic and operating viability of the project. Exploratory well costs not meeting these criteria are charged to expense. The facts and
circumstances that support continued capitalization of suspended wells as of year-end 2011 are disclosed in Note 9 to the financial statements.   
   Consolidations       The Consolidated Financial Statements
include the accounts of those subsidiaries that the Corporation controls. They also include the Corporation s share of the undivided interest in certain upstream assets and liabilities. Amounts representing the Corporation s percentage
interest in the underlying net assets of other significant entities that it does not control, but over which it exercises significant influence, are accounted for using the equity method of accounting.   
  Investments in companies that are partially owned by the Corporation are integral to the Corporation s operations. In some cases they serve
to balance worldwide risks, and in others they provide the only available means of entry into a particular market or area of interest. The other parties who also have an equity interest in these companies are either independent third parties or host
governments that share in the business results according to their percentage ownership. The Corporation does not invest in these companies in order to remove liabilities from its balance sheet. In fact, the Corporation has long been on record
supporting an alternative accounting method that would require each investor to consolidate its percentage share of all assets and liabilities in these partially owned companies rather than only its percentage in the net equity. This method of
accounting for investments in partially owned companies is not permitted by GAAP except where the investments are in the direct ownership of a share of upstream assets and liabilities. However, for purposes of calculating return on average capital
employed, which is not covered by GAAP standards, the Corporation includes its share of debt of these partially-owned companies in the determination of average capital employed.       Pension Benefits       The Corporation and its affiliates sponsor over 100 defined benefit (pension) plans in
about 50 countries. Pension and Other Postretirement Benefits (Note 16) provides details on pension obligations, fund assets and pension expense.      Some of these plans (primarily non-U.S.) provide pension benefits that are paid directly by their sponsoring affiliates out of corporate cash flow rather than a separate pension fund. Book reserves are
established for these plans because tax conventions and regulatory practices do not encourage advance funding. The portion of the pension cost attributable to employee service is expensed as services are rendered. The portion attributable to the
increase in pension obligations due to the passage of time is expensed over the term of the obligations, which ends when all benefits are paid. The primary difference in pension expense for unfunded versus funded plans is that pension expense for
funded plans also includes a credit for the expected long-term return on fund assets.   
         52   

Table of Contents  

  Index to Financial Statements  

   For funded plans, including those in the United States, pension obligations are financed in advance
through segregated assets or insurance arrangements. These plans are managed in compliance with the requirements of governmental authorities and meet or exceed required funding levels as measured by relevant actuarial and government standards at the
mandated measurement dates. In determining liabilities and required contributions, these standards often require approaches and assumptions that differ from those used for accounting purposes.   
  The Corporation will continue to make contributions to these funded plans as necessary. All defined-benefit pension obligations, regardless of
the funding status of the underlying plans, are fully supported by the financial strength of the Corporation or the respective sponsoring affiliate.      Pension accounting requires explicit assumptions regarding, among others, the long-term expected earnings rate on fund assets, the discount rate for the benefit obligations and the long-term rate for future
salary increases. Pension assumptions are reviewed annually by outside actuaries and senior management. These assumptions are adjusted as appropriate to reflect changes in market rates and outlook. The long-term expected earnings rate on U.S.
pension plan assets in 2011 was 7.5 percent. The 10-year and 20-year actual returns on U.S. pension plan assets were 6 percent and 9 percent, respectively. The Corporation establishes the long-term expected rate of return by developing a
forward-looking, long-term return assumption for each pension fund asset class, taking into account factors such as the expected real return for the specific asset class and inflation. A single, long-term rate of return is then calculated as the
weighted average of the target asset allocation and the long-term return assumption for each asset class. A worldwide reduction of 0.5 percent in the long-term rate of return on assets would increase annual pension expense by approximately $140
million before tax.      Differences between actual returns on fund assets and the long-term expected return are not recognized in pension
expense in the year that the difference occurs. Such differences are deferred, along with other actuarial gains and losses, and are amortized into pension expense over the expected remaining service life of employees.   
   Litigation Contingencies       A variety of claims have been
made against the Corporation and certain of its consolidated subsidiaries in a number of pending lawsuits. Management has regular litigation reviews, including updates from corporate and outside counsel, to assess the need for accounting recognition
or disclosure of these contingencies. The status of significant claims is summarized in Note 15.      The Corporation accrues an
undiscounted liability for those contingencies where the incurrence of a loss is probable, and the amount can be reasonably estimated. These amounts are not reduced by amounts that may be recovered under insurance or claims against third parties,
but undiscounted receivables from insurers or other third parties may be accrued separately. The Corporation revises such accruals in light of new information. For contingencies where an unfavorable outcome is reasonably possible and which are
significant, the Corporation discloses the nature of the contingency and, where feasible, an estimate of the possible loss. For purposes of our litigation contingency disclosures,  significant  includes material matters as well as other
items which management believes should be disclosed.      Management judgment is required related to contingent liabilities and the
outcome of litigation because both are difficult to predict. However, the Corporation has been successful in defending litigation in the past. Payments have not had a material adverse effect on operations or financial condition. In the
Corporation s experience, large claims often do not result in large awards. Large awards are often reversed or substantially reduced as a result of appeal or settlement.       Tax Contingencies       The Corporation is subject to income taxation in many jurisdictions around the world.
Significant management judgment is required in the accounting for income tax contingencies and tax disputes because the outcomes are often difficult to predict.      The benefits of uncertain tax positions that the Corporation has taken or expects to take in its income tax returns are recognized in the financial statements if management concludes that it is more likely than
not that the position will be sustained with the tax authorities. For a position that is likely to be sustained, the benefit recognized in the financial statements is measured at the largest amount that is greater than 50 percent likely of being
realized. A reserve is established for the difference between a position taken or expected to be taken in an income tax return and the amount recognized in the financial statements. The Corporation s unrecognized tax benefits and a description
of open tax years are summarized in Note 18.       Foreign Currency Translation       The method of translating the foreign currency financial statements of the Corporation s international subsidiaries into U.S. dollars is prescribed by GAAP. Under these principles, it is necessary to
select the functional currency of these subsidiaries. The functional currency is the currency of the primary economic environment in which the subsidiary operates. Management selects the functional currency after evaluating this economic
environment.      Factors considered by management when determining the functional currency for a subsidiary include the currency used for
cash flows related to individual assets and liabilities; the responsiveness of sales prices to changes in exchange rates; the history of inflation in the country; whether sales are into local markets or exported; the currency used to acquire raw
materials, labor, services and supplies; sources of financing; and significance of intercompany transactions.   
         53   

Table of Contents  

  Index to Financial Statements  

      MANAGEMENT S REPORT ON INTERNAL CONTROL OVER FINANCIAL REPORTING    
  Management, including the Corporation s chief executive officer, principal financial officer, and principal accounting officer, is responsible for
establishing and maintaining adequate internal control over the Corporation s financial reporting. Management conducted an evaluation of the effectiveness of internal control over financial reporting based on criteria established in  Internal
Control   Integrated Framework  issued by the Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of the Treadway Commission. Based on this evaluation, management concluded that Exxon Mobil Corporation s internal control over financial reporting
was effective as of December 31, 2011.      PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP, an independent registered public accounting firm, audited the effectiveness
of the Corporation s internal control over financial reporting as of December 31, 2011, as stated in their report included in the Financial Section of this report.   

Rex W. Tillerson     Chief Executive
Officer   
     
    Donald D. Humphreys     Senior Vice
President     (Principal Financial Officer)   
     
    Patrick T. Mulva     Vice President and
Controller     (Principal Accounting Officer)    
 
         54   

Table of Contents  

  Index to Financial Statements  

      REPORT OF INDEPENDENT REGISTERED PUBLIC ACCOUNTING FIRM    

To the Shareholders of Exxon Mobil Corporation:      In our opinion, the accompanying Consolidated Balance Sheets and the related Consolidated Statements of Income, Comprehensive Income, Changes in Equity and Cash Flows present fairly, in all material respects,
the financial position of Exxon Mobil Corporation and its subsidiaries at December 31, 2011, and 2010, and the results of their operations and their cash flows for each of the three years in the period ended December 31, 2011, in
conformity with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America. Also in our opinion, the Corporation maintained, in all material respects, effective internal control over financial reporting as of December 31, 2011,
based on criteria established in  Internal Control   Integrated Framework  issued by the Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of the Treadway Commission (COSO). The Corporation s management is responsible for these financial
statements, for maintaining effective internal control over financial reporting and for its assessment of the effectiveness of internal control over financial reporting, included in the accompanying Management s Report on Internal Control over
Financial Reporting. Our responsibility is to express opinions on these financial statements and on the Corporation s internal control over financial reporting based on our integrated audits. We conducted our audits in accordance with the
standards of the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board (United States). Those standards require that we plan and perform the audits to obtain reasonable assurance about whether the financial statements are free of material misstatement and
whether effective internal control over financial reporting was maintained in all material respects. Our audits of the financial statements included examining, on a test basis, evidence supporting the amounts and disclosures in the financial
statements, assessing the accounting principles used and significant estimates made by management, and evaluating the overall financial statement presentation. Our audit of internal control over financial reporting included obtaining an
understanding of internal control over financial reporting, assessing the risk that a material weakness exists, and testing and evaluating the design and operating effectiveness of internal control based on the assessed risk. Our audits also
included performing such other procedures as we considered necessary in the circumstances. We believe that our audits provide a reasonable basis for our opinions.      A company s internal control over financial reporting is a process designed to provide reasonable assurance regarding the reliability of financial reporting and the preparation of financial statements for
external purposes in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles. A company s internal control over financial reporting includes those policies and procedures that (i) pertain to the maintenance of records that, in reasonable
detail, accurately and fairly reflect the transactions and dispositions of the assets of the company; (ii) provide reasonable assurance that transactions are recorded as necessary to permit preparation of financial statements in accordance with
generally accepted accounting principles, and that receipts and expenditures of the company are being made only in accordance with authorizations of management and directors of the company; and (iii) provide reasonable assurance regarding
prevention or timely detection of unauthorized acquisition, use, or disposition of the company s assets that could have a material effect on the financial statements.      Because of its inherent limitations, internal control over financial reporting may not prevent or detect misstatements. Also, projections of any evaluation of effectiveness to future periods are subject to the
risk that controls may become inadequate because of changes in conditions, or that the degree of compliance with the policies or procedures may deteriorate.      /s/ PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP      Dallas, Texas      February 24, 2012   
         55   

Table of Contents  

  Index to Financial Statements  

CONSOLIDATED STATEMENT OF INCOME    

The information in the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements is an integral part of these statements.    
         56   

Table of Contents  

  Index to Financial Statements  

CONSOLIDATED BALANCE SHEET    
    
     The information in the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements is an integral part of these statements.    

         57   

Table of Contents  

  Index to Financial Statements  

CONSOLIDATED STATEMENT OF CASH FLOWS    
    
     Non-Cash Transactions    
  The Corporation acquired all the outstanding equity of XTO Energy Inc. in an all-stock transaction valued at $24,659 million in 2010 (see Note 19).   
       The information in the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements is an integral part
of these statements.    

         58   

Table of Contents  

  Index to Financial Statements  

CONSOLIDATED STATEMENT OF CHANGES IN EQUITY    
    
     The information in the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements is an integral part of these statements.    

         59   

Table of Contents  

  Index to Financial Statements  

CONSOLIDATED STATEMENT OF CHANGES IN EQUITY (continued)    

CONSOLIDATED STATEMENT OF COMPREHENSIVE INCOME    
    
     The information in the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements is an integral part of these statements.    

         60   

Table of Contents  

  Index to Financial Statements  

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS    
        The accompanying consolidated financial statements and the supporting and
supplemental material are the responsibility of the management of Exxon Mobil Corporation.      The Corporation s principal business
is energy, involving the worldwide exploration, production, transportation and sale of crude oil and natural gas (Upstream) and the manufacture, transportation and sale of petroleum products (Downstream). The Corporation is also a major worldwide
manufacturer and marketer of petrochemicals (Chemical) and participates in electric power generation (Upstream).      The preparation of
financial statements in conformity with U.S. Generally Accepted Accounting Principles (GAAP) requires management to make estimates that affect the reported amounts of assets, liabilities, revenues and expenses and the disclosure of contingent assets
and liabilities. Actual results could differ from these estimates. Prior years  data has been reclassified in certain cases to conform to the 2011 presentation basis.   
      1. Summary of Accounting Policies    
    Principles of Consolidation.  The Consolidated Financial Statements include the accounts of subsidiaries the Corporation controls. They
also include the Corporation s share of the undivided interest in certain upstream assets and liabilities.      Amounts representing
the Corporation s percentage interest in the underlying net assets of entities that it does not control, but over which it exercises significant influence, are included in  Investments, advances and long-term receivables . The
Corporation s share of the net income of these companies is included in the Consolidated Statement of Income caption  Income from equity affiliates.       Majority ownership is normally the indicator of control that is the basis on which subsidiaries are consolidated. However, certain factors may indicate that a majority-owned investment is not controlled and
therefore should be accounted for using the equity method of accounting. These factors occur where the minority shareholders are granted by law or by contract substantive participating rights. These include the right to approve operating policies,
expense budgets, financing and investment plans, and management compensation and succession plans.      The Corporation s share of
the cumulative foreign exchange translation adjustment for equity method investments is reported in the Consolidated Statement of Changes in Equity.      Evidence of loss in value that might indicate impairment of investments in companies accounted for on the equity method is assessed to determine if such evidence represents a loss in value of the
Corporation s investment that is other than temporary. Examples of key indicators include a history of operating losses, a negative earnings and cash flow outlook, significant downward revisions to oil and gas reserves, and the financial
condition and prospects for the investee s business segment or geographic region. If evidence of an other than temporary loss in fair value below carrying amount is determined, an impairment is recognized. In the absence of market prices for
the investment, discounted cash flows are used to assess fair value.       Revenue Recognition.  The Corporation generally sells crude oil, natural
gas and petroleum and chemical products under short-term agreements at prevailing market prices. In some cases (e.g., natural gas), products may be sold under long-term agreements, with periodic price adjustments. Revenues are recognized when the
products are delivered, which occurs when the customer has taken title and has assumed the risks and rewards of ownership, prices are fixed or determinable and collectibility is reasonably assured.   
  Revenues from the production of natural gas properties in which the Corporation has an interest with other producers are recognized on the basis
of the Corporation s net working interest. Differences between actual production and net working interest volumes are not significant.      Purchases and sales of inventory with the same counterparty that are entered into in contemplation of one another are combined and recorded as exchanges measured at the book value of the item sold.   
   Sales-Based Taxes.  The Corporation reports sales, excise and value-added taxes on sales transactions on a gross basis in the Consolidated Statement of
Income (included in both revenues and costs).       Derivative Instruments.  The Corporation makes limited use of derivative instruments. The
Corporation does not engage in speculative derivative activities or derivative trading activities, nor does it use derivatives with leveraged features. When the Corporation does enter into derivative transactions, it is to offset exposures
associated with interest rates, foreign currency exchange rates and hydrocarbon prices that arise from existing assets, liabilities and forecasted transactions.      The gains and losses resulting from changes in the fair value of derivatives are recorded in income. In some cases, the Corporation designates derivatives as fair value hedges, in which case the gains and losses
are offset in income by the gains and losses arising from changes in the fair value of the underlying hedged item.       Fair Value.  Fair value is
the price that would be received to sell an asset or paid to transfer a liability in an orderly transaction between market participants. Hierarchy Levels 1, 2 and 3 are terms for the priority of inputs to valuation techniques used to measure fair
value. Hierarchy Level 1 inputs are quoted prices in active markets for identical assets or liabilities. Hierarchy Level 2 inputs are inputs other than quoted prices included within Level 1 that are directly or indirectly observable for the asset or
liability. Hierarchy Level 3 inputs are inputs that are not observable in the market.   
         61   

Table of Contents  

  Index to Financial Statements  

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS          
    Inventories.  Crude oil, products and merchandise inventories are carried at the lower of current market
value or cost (generally determined under the last-in, first-out method   LIFO). Inventory costs include expenditures and other charges (including depreciation) directly and indirectly incurred in bringing the inventory to its existing
condition and location. Selling expenses and general and administrative expenses are reported as period costs and excluded from inventory cost. Inventories of materials and supplies are valued at cost or less.   
   Property, Plant and Equipment.  Depreciation, depletion and amortization, based on cost less estimated salvage value of the asset, are primarily determined
under either the unit-of-production method or the straight-line method, which is based on estimated asset service life taking obsolescence into consideration. Maintenance and repairs, including planned major maintenance, are expensed as incurred.
Major renewals and improvements are capitalized and the assets replaced are retired.      Interest costs incurred to finance expenditures
during the construction phase of multiyear projects are capitalized as part of the historical cost of acquiring the constructed assets. The project construction phase commences with the development of the detailed engineering design and ends when
the constructed assets are ready for their intended use. Capitalized interest costs are included in property, plant and equipment and are depreciated over the service life of the related assets.   
  The Corporation uses the  successful efforts  method to account for its exploration and production activities. Under this method, costs
are accumulated on a field-by-field basis with certain exploratory expenditures and exploratory dry holes being expensed as incurred. Costs of productive wells and development dry holes are capitalized and amortized on the unit-of-production method.
     The Corporation carries as an asset exploratory well costs when the well has found a sufficient quantity of reserves to justify its
completion as a producing well and where the Corporation is making sufficient progress assessing the reserves and the economic and operating viability of the project. Exploratory well costs not meeting these criteria are charged to expense. Other
exploratory expenditures, including geophysical costs and annual lease rentals, are expensed as incurred.      Acquisition costs of proved
properties are amortized using a unit-of-production method, computed on the basis of total proved oil and gas reserves.      Capitalized
exploratory drilling and development costs associated with productive depletable extractive properties are amortized using unit-of-production rates based on the amount of proved developed reserves of oil, gas and other minerals that are estimated to
be recoverable from existing facilities using current operating methods.      Under the unit-of-production method, oil and gas volumes are
considered produced once they have been measured through meters at custody transfer or sales transaction points at the outlet valve on the lease or field storage tank.      Production costs are expensed as incurred. Production involves lifting the oil and gas to the surface and gathering, treating, field processing and field storage of the oil and gas. The production function
normally terminates at the outlet valve on the lease or field production storage tank. Production costs are those incurred to operate and maintain the Corporation s wells and related equipment and facilities. They become part of the cost of oil
and gas produced. These costs, sometimes referred to as lifting costs, include such items as labor costs to operate the wells and related equipment; repair and maintenance costs on the wells and equipment; materials, supplies and energy costs
required to operate the wells and related equipment; and administrative expenses related to the production activity.      Proved oil and
gas properties held and used by the Corporation are reviewed for impairment whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying amounts may not be recoverable. Assets are grouped at the lowest level for which there are
identifiable cash flows that are largely independent of the cash flows of other groups of assets.      The Corporation estimates the
future undiscounted cash flows of the affected properties to judge the recoverability of carrying amounts. Cash flows used in impairment evaluations are developed using annually updated corporate plan investment evaluation assumptions for crude oil
commodity prices and foreign currency exchange rates. Annual volumes are based on field production profiles, which are also updated annually. Prices for natural gas and other products are based on corporate plan assumptions developed annually by
major region and also for investment evaluation purposes. Cash flow estimates for impairment testing exclude derivative instruments.   
  Impairment analyses are generally based on proved reserves. Where probable reserves exist, an appropriately risk-adjusted amount of these
reserves may be included in the impairment evaluation. Impairments are measured by the amount the carrying value exceeds the fair value.      Significant unproved properties are assessed for impairment individually, and valuation allowances against the capitalized costs are recorded based on the estimated economic chance of success and the length of
time that the Corporation expects to hold the properties. Properties that are not individually significant are aggregated by groups and amortized based on development risk and average holding period. The valuation allowances are reviewed at least
annually.      Gains on sales of proved and unproved properties are only recognized when there is no uncertainty about the recovery of
costs applicable to any interest retained or where there is no substantial obligation for future performance by the Corporation.   
  Losses on properties sold are recognized when incurred or when the properties are held for sale and the fair value of the properties is less than
the carrying value.   
         62   

Table of Contents  

  Index to Financial Statements  

    Asset Retirement Obligations and Environmental Liabilities.  The Corporation incurs retirement
obligations for certain assets at the time they are installed. The fair values of these obligations are recorded as liabilities on a discounted basis. The costs associated with these liabilities are capitalized as part of the related assets and
depreciated. Over time, the liabilities are accreted for the change in their present value.      Liabilities for environmental costs are
recorded when it is probable that obligations have been incurred and the amounts can be reasonably estimated. These liabilities are not reduced by possible recoveries from third parties and projected cash expenditures are not discounted.   
   Foreign Currency Translation.  The Corporation selects the functional reporting currency for its international subsidiaries based on the currency of the
primary economic environment in which each subsidiary operates.      Downstream and Chemical operations primarily use the local currency.
However, the U.S. dollar is used in countries with a history of high inflation (primarily in Latin America) and Singapore, which predominantly sells into the U.S. dollar export market. Upstream operations which are relatively self-contained and
integrated within a particular country, such as Canada, the United Kingdom, Norway and continental Europe, use the local currency. Some Upstream operations, primarily in Asia and Africa, use the U.S. dollar because they predominantly sell crude and
natural gas production into U.S. dollar-denominated markets.      For all operations, gains or losses from remeasuring foreign currency
transactions into the functional currency are included in income.       Stock-Based Payments.  The Corporation awards stock-based compensation to
employees in the form of restricted stock and restricted stock units. Compensation expense is measured by the market price of the restricted shares at the date of grant and is recognized in the income statement over the requisite service period of
each award. See Note 14, Incentive Program, for further details.   
      2. Accounting Changes    
   The Corporation did not adopt authoritative guidance in 2011 that had a material impact on the Corporation s financial statements.
  
      3. Miscellaneous Financial Information    
   Research and development costs totaled $1,044 million in 2011, $1,012 million in 2010 and $1,050 million in 2009.   
  Net income included before-tax aggregate foreign exchange transaction losses of $184 million and $251 million, and gains of $54 million in 2011,
2010 and 2009, respectively.      In 2011, 2010 and 2009, net income included gains of $292 million, $317 million and $207 million,
respectively, attributable to the combined effects of LIFO inventory accumulations and draw-downs. The aggregate replacement cost of inventories was estimated to exceed their LIFO carrying values by $25.6 billion and $21.3 billion at
December 31, 2011, and 2010, respectively.      Crude oil, products and merchandise as of year-end 2011 and 2010 consist of the
following:       
 
      4. Cash Flow Information    
   The Consolidated Statement of Cash Flows provides information about changes in cash and cash equivalents. Highly liquid investments with
maturities of three months or less when acquired are classified as cash equivalents.      The  Net (gain) on asset sales  in net
cash provided by operating activities on the Consolidated Statement of Cash Flows includes before-tax gains from the sale of some Upstream Canadian, U.K. and other producing properties and assets, and the sale of U.S. service stations in 2011; from
the sale of some Upstream Gulf of Mexico and other producing properties, the sale of U.S. service stations and other Downstream assets and investments and the formation of a Chemical joint venture in 2010; and from the sale of Downstream assets and
investments and producing properties in the Upstream in 2009. These gains are reported in  Other income  on the Consolidated Statement of Income.      Included in  Proceeds associated with sales of subsidiaries, property, plant, and equipment, and sales and returns of investments  in 2011 is a $3.6 billion deposit for a potential asset sale.

63   

Table of Contents  

  Index to Financial Statements  

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS          
    
      5. Additional Working Capital Information    
    
    On December 31, 2011, unused credit lines for short-term financing totaled approximately $5.5 billion. Of this total, $2.8
billion support commercial paper programs under terms negotiated when drawn. The weighted-average interest rate on short-term borrowings outstanding at December 31, 2011, and 2010, was 1.9 percent and 1.2 percent, respectively.   
           
      6. Equity Company Information    
   The summarized financial information below includes amounts related to certain less-than-majority-owned companies and majority-owned
subsidiaries where minority shareholders possess the right to participate in significant management decisions (see Note 1). These companies are primarily engaged in crude production, natural gas marketing and refining operations in North
America; natural gas production, natural gas distribution and downstream operations in Europe; crude production in Kazakhstan; and liquefied natural gas (LNG) operations in Qatar. Also included are several power generation, refining, petrochemical
manufacturing and chemical ventures. The Corporation s ownership in these ventures is in the form of shares in corporate joint ventures as well as interests in partnerships. The share of total equity company revenues from sales to
ExxonMobil consolidated companies was 19 percent, 18 percent and 19 percent in the years 2011, 2010 and 2009, respectively.       
 
         64   

Table of Contents  

  Index to Financial Statements  

       A list of significant equity companies as of December 31, 2011, together with the
Corporation s percentage ownership interest, is detailed below:       

Percentage  
  Ownership  
  Interest   

Upstream    

Aera Energy LLC   

48  

BEB Erdgas und Erdoel GmbH   

50  

Cameroon Oil Transportation Company S.A.   

41  

Castle Peak Power Company Limited   

60  

Golden Pass LNG Terminal LLC   

18  

Nederlandse Aardolie Maatschappij B.V.   

50  

Qatar Liquefied Gas Company Limited   

10  

Qatar Liquefied Gas Company Limited 2   

24  

Ras Laffan Liquefied Natural Gas Company Limited   

25  

Ras Laffan Liquefied Natural Gas Company Limited II   

31  

Ras Laffan Liquefied Natural Gas Company Limited (3)   

30  

South Hook LNG Terminal Company Limited   

24  

Tengizchevroil, LLP   

25  

Terminale GNL Adriatico S.r.l.   

71  

Downstream    

Chalmette Refining, LLC   

50  

Fujian Refining   Petrochemical Co. Ltd.   

25  

Saudi Aramco Mobil Refinery Company Ltd.   

50  

Chemical    

Al-Jubail Petrochemical Company   

50  

Infineum Holdings B.V.   

50  

Saudi Yanbu Petrochemical Co.   

50  

Toray Tonen Specialty Separator Godo Kaisha   

50  

7. Investments, Advances and Long-Term Receivables    

8. Property, Plant and Equipment and Asset Retirement Obligations    
    
        In the Upstream segment, depreciation is generally on a
unit-of-production basis, so depreciable life will vary by field. In the Downstream segment, investments in refinery and lubes basestock manufacturing facilities are generally depreciated on a straight-line basis over a 25-year life and service
station buildings and fixed improvements over a 20-year life. In the Chemical segment, investments in process equipment are generally depreciated on a straight-line basis over a 20-year life.   
  Accumulated depreciation and depletion totaled $179,331 million at the end of 2011 and $174,390 million at the end of 2010. Interest capitalized
in 2011, 2010 and 2009 was $593 million, $532 million and $425 million, respectively.   
         65   

Table of Contents  

  Index to Financial Statements  

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS          
    Asset Retirement Obligations       The Corporation incurs retirement obligations for its upstream assets. The fair values of these obligations are recorded as liabilities on a discounted basis, which is typically at the time the assets are
installed. The Corporation uses estimates, assumptions and judgments regarding such factors as the existence of a legal obligation for an asset retirement obligation; technical assessments of the assets; estimated amounts and timing of settlements;
discount rates; and inflation rates. Asset retirement obligations incurred in the current period were Level 3 (unobservable inputs) fair value measurements. The costs associated with these liabilities are capitalized as part of the related assets
and depreciated as the reserves are produced. Over time, the liabilities are accreted for the change in their present value. Asset retirement obligations for downstream and chemical facilities generally become firm at the time the facilities are
permanently shut down and dismantled. These obligations may include the costs of asset disposal and additional soil remediation. However, these sites have indeterminate lives based on plans for continued operations and as such, the fair value of the
conditional legal obligations cannot be measured, since it is impossible to estimate the future settlement dates of such obligations.      The following
table summarizes the activity in the liability for asset retirement obligations:       
 
      9. Accounting for Suspended Exploratory Well Costs    
   The Corporation continues capitalization of exploratory well costs beyond one year after the well is completed if (a) the well found a
sufficient quantity of reserves to justify its completion as a producing well and (b) sufficient progress is being made in assessing the reserves and the economic and operating viability of the project.   
  The following two tables provide details of the changes in the balance of suspended exploratory well costs as well as an aging summary of those
costs.      Change in capitalized suspended exploratory well costs:       
    Period end capitalized suspended exploratory well costs:   
   
    Exploration activity often involves drilling multiple wells, over a number of years, to fully evaluate a project. The table
below provides a numerical breakdown of the number of projects with suspended exploratory well costs which had their first capitalized well drilled in the preceding 12 months and those that have had exploratory well costs capitalized for a period
greater than 12 months.       
 
         66   

Table of Contents  

  Index to Financial Statements  

       Of the 58 projects that have exploratory well costs capitalized for a period greater than 12 months
as of December 31, 2011, 26 projects have drilling in the preceding 12 months or exploratory activity planned in the next two years, while the remaining 32 projects are those with completed exploratory activity progressing toward development.
The table below provides additional detail for those 32 projects, which total $1,133 million.       

Country/Project  
     
  Dec. 31, 2011  

Years Wells Drilled  
     
  Comment   

(millions of dollars)    

Angola   

Perpetua-Zina-Acacia   
     
  $  
  15  

2008 - 2009  
     
  Oil field near Pazflor development, awaiting capacity in existing/planned
infrastructure.   
 
    Australia   

East Pilchard   

10  

2001  
     
  Gas field near Kipper/Tuna development, awaiting capacity in existing/planned
infrastructure.   

SE Longtom   

15  

2010  
     
  Gas field near Tuna development, awaiting capacity in existing/planned
infrastructure.   
 
    Indonesia   

Natuna   

118  

1981 - 1983  
     
  Development activity under way, while continuing discussions with the government on contract
terms pursuant to executed Heads of Agreement.   
 
    Kazakhstan   

Kairan   

53  

2004 - 2007  
     
  Declarations involving field commerciality filed with Kazakhstan government in 2008; progressing
commercialization and field development studies.   
 
    Malaysia   

Besar   

18  

1992 - 2010  
     
  Gas field off the east coast of Malaysia; progressing development plan.   

Other (2 projects)   

8  

1979 - 1995  
     
  Projects primarily awaiting capacity in existing or planned infrastructure.   
 
    Nigeria   

Bolia   

15  

2002 - 2006  
     
  Evaluating development plan, while continuing discussions with the government regarding regional
hub strategy.   

Bosi   

79  

2002 - 2006  
     
  Development activity under way, while continuing discussions with the government regarding
development plan.   

Pegi   

32  

2009  
     
  Awaiting capacity in existing/planned infrastructure   

Other (4 projects)   

13  

2002  
     
  Pursuing development of several additional offshore satellite discoveries which will tie back to
existing/planned production facilities.   
 
    Norway   

Gamma   

20  

2008 - 2009  
     
  Evaluating development plan for tieback to existing production facilities.   

H-North   

15  

2007  
     
  Discovery near existing facilities in Fram area; progressing development plans.   

Lavrans   

22  

1995 - 1999  
     
  Development awaiting capacity in existing Kristin production facility; evaluating development
concepts for phased ullage scenarios.   

Nyk High   

19  

2008  
     
  Evaluating field development alternatives.   

Other (6 projects)   

26  

1992 - 2010  
     
  Evaluating development plans, including potential for tieback to existing production
facilities.   
 
    Papua New Guinea   

Juha   

28  

2007  
     
  Working on development plans to tie into planned LNG facilities.   
 
    United Kingdom   

Fram   

55  

2009  
     
  Progressing development and commercialization plans.   

Other (2 projects)   

14  

2001 - 2004  
     
  Projects primarily awaiting capacity in existing or planned infrastructure.   
 
    United States   

Julia Unit   

78  

2007 - 2008  
     
  Reached agreement with the Department of Interior and Department of Justice providing for
suspension of production; progressing development plans with partners.   

Point Thomson   

449  

1977 - 2010  
     
  Continuing discussions with government and partners on development plan.   

Tip Top   

31  

2009  
     
  Evaluating development concept and requisite facility upgrades.   
 
    Total 2011 (32
projects)   
     
  $  
  1,133  

67   

Table of Contents  

  Index to Financial Statements  

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS          

      10. Leased Facilities    
   At December 31, 2011, the Corporation and its consolidated subsidiaries held noncancelable operating charters and leases covering
drilling equipment, tankers, service stations and other properties with minimum undiscounted lease commitments totaling $7,914 million as indicated in the table. Estimated related rental income from noncancelable subleases is $107 million.
      
    Net rental cost under both cancelable and noncancelable operating leases incurred during 2011, 2010 and 2009 were as follows:

11. Earnings Per Share    

12. Financial Instruments and Derivatives    
    Financial Instruments.  The fair value of financial instruments is determined by reference to observable market data and other valuation
techniques as appropriate. The only category of financial instruments where the difference between fair value and recorded book value is notable is long-term debt. The estimated fair value of total long-term debt, including capitalized lease
obligations, was $9.8 billion and $12.8 billion at December 31, 2011, and 2010, respectively, as compared to recorded book values of $9.3 billion and $12.2 billion at December 31, 2011, and 2010, respectively. The fair value hierarchy for long-term
debt is primarily Level 1 (quoted prices for identical assets in active markets).   
         68   

Table of Contents  

  Index to Financial Statements  

    Derivative Instruments.  The Corporation s size, strong capital structure, geographic diversity and the
complementary nature of the Upstream, Downstream and Chemical businesses reduce the Corporation s enterprise-wide risk from changes in interest rates, currency rates and commodity prices. As a result, the Corporation makes limited use of
derivatives to mitigate the impact of such changes. The Corporation does not engage in speculative derivative activities or derivative trading activities nor does it use derivatives with leveraged features.   
  When the Corporation does enter into derivative transactions, it is to offset exposures associated with interest rates, foreign currency exchange
rates and hydrocarbon prices that arise from existing assets, liabilities and forecasted transactions. The cash flow hedge positions acquired as a result of the XTO merger were settled by December 31, 2011, and those programs have been discontinued.
     The estimated fair value of derivative instruments outstanding and recorded on the balance sheet was a net liability of $3 million at
year-end 2011 and a net asset of $172 million at year-end 2010. Assets and liabilities associated with derivatives are predominantly recorded either in  Other current assets  or  Accounts payable and accrued liabilities. 
     The Corporation s fair value measurement of its derivative instruments uses primarily Level 2 inputs (derivatives that are
determined by either market prices on an active market for similar assets or by prices quoted by a broker or other market-corroborated prices).      The Corporation recognized a before-tax gain or (loss) related to derivative instruments of $131 million, $221 million and $(73) million during 2011, 2010 and 2009, respectively. Income statement effects
associated with derivatives are recorded either in  Sales and other operating revenue  or  Crude oil and product purchases.  Of the amount stated above for 2011, cash flow hedges resulted in a before-tax gain of $136 million.
     The Corporation believes there are no material market or credit risks to the Corporation s financial position, results of
operations or liquidity as a result of the derivative activities described above.   
      13. Long-Term Debt    
   At December 31, 2011, long-term debt consisted of $8,855 million due in U.S. dollars and $467 million representing the U.S. dollar
equivalent at year-end exchange rates of amounts payable in foreign currencies. These amounts exclude that portion of long-term debt, totaling $3,431 million, which matures within one year and is included in current liabilities. The amounts of
long-term debt maturing, in each of the four years after December 31, 2012, in millions of dollars, are: 2013   $967, 2014   $871, 2015   $606 and 2016   $503. At December 31, 2011, the Corporation s
unused long-term credit lines were not material.      Summarized long-term debt at year-end 2011 and 2010 are shown in the table below:

(1)   
   Additional information is provided for this subsidiary on the following pages.      

69   

Table of Contents  

  Index to Financial Statements  

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS          
    Condensed consolidating financial information related to guaranteed securities issued by subsidiaries
          Exxon Mobil Corporation has fully and unconditionally guaranteed the
deferred interest debentures due 2012 ($2,662 million short-term) of SeaRiver Maritime Financial Holdings, Inc., a 100-percent-owned subsidiary of Exxon Mobil Corporation.      The following condensed consolidating financial information is provided for Exxon Mobil Corporation, as guarantor, and for SeaRiver Maritime Financial Holdings, Inc., as issuer, as an alternative to providing
separate financial statements for the issuer. The accounts of Exxon Mobil Corporation and SeaRiver Maritime Financial Holdings, Inc. are presented utilizing the equity method of accounting for investments in subsidiaries.   

70   

Table of Contents  

  Index to Financial Statements  

71   

Table of Contents  

  Index to Financial Statements  

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS          
    Condensed consolidating financial information related to guaranteed securities issued by subsidiaries

72   

Table of Contents  

  Index to Financial Statements  

73   

Table of Contents  

  Index to Financial Statements  

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS          
    Condensed consolidating financial information related to guaranteed securities issued by subsidiaries

74   

Table of Contents  

  Index to Financial Statements  

75   

Table of Contents  

  Index to Financial Statements  

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS          

      14. Incentive Program    
   The 2003 Incentive Program provides for grants of stock options, stock appreciation rights (SARs), restricted stock and other forms of award.
Awards may be granted to eligible employees of the Corporation and those affiliates at least 50 percent owned. Outstanding awards are subject to certain forfeiture provisions contained in the program or award instrument. Options and SARs may be
granted at prices not less than 100 percent of market value on the date of grant and have a maximum life of 10 years. The maximum number of shares of stock that may be issued under the 2003 Incentive Program is 220 million. Awards that are
forfeited, expire or are settled in cash, do not count against this maximum limit. The 2003 Incentive Program does not have a specified term. New awards may be made until the available shares are depleted, unless the Board terminates the plan early.
At the end of 2011, remaining shares available for award under the 2003 Incentive Program were 133,183 thousand.       Restricted Stock.  Awards
totaling 10,533 thousand, 10,648 thousand (excluding XTO merger-related grants), and 10,133 thousand of restricted (nonvested) common stock and restricted (nonvested) common stock units were granted in 2011, 2010 and 2009, respectively.
Compensation expense for these awards is based on the price of the stock at the date of grant and is recognized in income over the requisite service period. These shares are issued to employees from treasury stock. The units that are settled in cash
are recorded as liabilities and their changes in fair value are recognized over the vesting period. During the applicable restricted periods, the shares may not be sold or transferred and are subject to forfeiture. The majority of the awards have
graded vesting periods, with 50 percent of the shares in each award vesting after three years and the remaining 50 percent vesting after seven years. Awards granted to a small number of senior executives have vesting periods of five years for 50
percent of the award and of 10 years or retirement, whichever occurs later, for the remaining 50 percent of the award.      Additionally,
in 2010 long-term incentive awards totaling 4,206 thousand shares of restricted (nonvested) common stock, with a value of $250 million, were granted in association with the XTO merger. The majority of these awards vest over periods of up to three
years after the initial grant.      The Corporation has purchased shares in the open market and through negotiated transactions to offset
shares issued in conjunction with benefit plans and programs. Purchases may be discontinued at any time without prior notice.      The following tables
summarize information about restricted stock and restricted stock units for the year ended December 31, 2011.       
     
        As of December 31, 2011, there was $2,168 million of
unrecognized compensation cost related to the nonvested restricted awards. This cost is expected to be recognized over a weighted-average period of 4.5 years. The compensation cost charged against income for the restricted stock and
restricted units was $793 million, $801 million and $723 million for 2011, 2010 and 2009, respectively. The income tax benefit recognized in income related to this compensation expense was $73 million, $81 million and $76 million
for the same periods, respectively. The fair value of shares and units vested in 2011, 2010 and 2009 was $801 million, $718 million and $763 million, respectively. Cash payments of $46 million, $42 million and $41 million for vested restricted
stock units settled in cash were made in 2011, 2010 and 2009, respectively.   
         76   

Table of Contents  

  Index to Financial Statements  

        Stock Options.  The Corporation has not granted any stock options under the 2003 Incentive
Program. In 2010, the Corporation granted 12,393 thousand of converted XTO stock options with a grant-date fair value of $182 million as a result of the XTO merger. The grant included 893 thousand of unvested options. Compensation expense
for these awards is based on estimated grant-date fair values.      These stock options generally vest and become exercisable ratably over
a three-year period, and may include a provision for accelerated vesting when the common stock price reaches specified levels. Some stock option tranches vest only when the common stock price reaches specified levels. As of December 31, 2011,
unvested stock options of 226 thousand included 10 thousand options that vest ratably over three years and 216 thousand options that vest at a stock price of $126.80.   
      Changes that occurred in the Corporation s stock options in 2011 are summarized
below:       
        Compensation expense of $1 million in 2011 and $2 million
in 2010 fully expensed the nonvested merger-related XTO stock options. No compensation expense was recognized for stock options in 2009 as all remaining outstanding stock options at that time were fully vested. Cash received from stock option
exercises was $924 million, $1,043 million and $752 million for 2011, 2010 and 2009, respectively. The cash tax benefit realized for the options exercised was $221 million, $89 million and $164 million for 2011, 2010 and 2009, respectively. The
aggregate intrinsic value of stock options exercised in 2011, 2010 and 2009 was $986 million, $539 million and $563 million, respectively. The intrinsic value for the balance of outstanding stock options at December 31, 2011, was $98 million.
The intrinsic value for the balance of exercisable stock options at December 31, 2011, was $97 million.         
         77   

Table of Contents  

  Index to Financial Statements  

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS          

      15. Litigation and Other Contingencies    
    Litigation.  A variety of claims have been made against ExxonMobil and certain of its consolidated subsidiaries in a number of pending
lawsuits. Management has regular litigation reviews, including updates from corporate and outside counsel, to assess the need for accounting recognition or disclosure of these contingencies. The Corporation accrues an undiscounted liability for
those contingencies where the incurrence of a loss is probable and the amount can be reasonably estimated. If a range of amounts can be reasonably estimated and no amount within the range is a better estimate than any other amount, then the minimum
of the range is accrued. The Corporation does not record liabilities when the likelihood that the liability has been incurred is probable but the amount cannot be reasonably estimated or when the liability is believed to be only reasonably possible
or remote. For contingencies where an unfavorable outcome is reasonably possible and which are significant, the Corporation discloses the nature of the contingency and, where feasible, an estimate of the possible loss. For purposes of our
contingency disclosures,  significant  includes material matters as well as other matters which management believes should be disclosed. ExxonMobil will continue to defend itself vigorously in these matters. Based on a consideration of all
relevant facts and circumstances, the Corporation does not believe the ultimate outcome of any currently pending lawsuit against ExxonMobil will have a material adverse effect upon the Corporation s operations, financial condition, or financial
statements taken as a whole.      On June 30, 2011, a state district court jury in Baltimore County, Maryland returned a verdict against
Exxon Mobil Corporation in  Allison, et al v. Exxon Mobil Corporation,  a case involving an accidental 26,000 gallon gasoline leak at a suburban Baltimore service station. The verdict included approximately $497 million in compensatory damages
and approximately $1.0 billion in punitive damages in a finding that ExxonMobil fraudulently misled the plantiff-residents about the events leading up to the leak, the leak s discovery, and the nature and extent of any groundwater
contamination. ExxonMobil believes the verdict is not justified by the evidence and that the amount of the compensatory award is grossly excessive and the imposition of punitive damages is improper and unconstitutional. The trial court denied a
post-trial motion that ExxonMobil filed to overturn the punitive damages verdict. Following the entry of a final judgment, ExxonMobil will appeal the verdict and judgment. In a prior trial involving the same leak, the jury awarded plantiff-residents
compensatory damages but decided against punitive damages. The plaintiffs did not appeal the jury s denial of punitive damages. Following an appeal by ExxonMobil of the compensatory damages award, on February 9, 2012, the Maryland Special Court
of Appeals reversed in part and affirmed in part the trial court s decision on compensatory damages. The ultimate outcome of this litigation is not expected to have a material adverse effect upon the Corporation s operations, financial
condition, or financial statements taken as a whole.       Other Contingencies.  The Corporation and certain of its consolidated subsidiaries were
contingently liable at December 31, 2011, for guarantees relating to notes, loans and performance under contracts.       

(1)   
   ExxonMobil share.         Additionally, the
Corporation and its affiliates have numerous long-term sales and purchase commitments in their various business activities, all of which are expected to be fulfilled with no adverse consequences material to the Corporation s operations or
financial condition. Unconditional purchase obligations as defined by accounting standards are those long-term commitments that are noncancelable or cancelable only under certain conditions, and that third parties have used to secure financing for
the facilities that will provide the contracted goods or services.       

(1)   
   Undiscounted obligations of $1,313 million mainly pertain to pipeline throughput agreements and include $856 million of obligations to equity companies. The present value
of these commitments, which excludes imputed interest of $229 million, totaled $1,084 million.         In accordance with
a nationalization decree issued by Venezuela s president in February 2007, by May 1, 2007, a subsidiary of the Venezuelan National Oil Company (PdVSA) assumed the operatorship of the Cerro Negro Heavy Oil Project. This Project had been operated
and owned by ExxonMobil affiliates holding a 41.67 percent ownership interest in the Project. The decree also required conversion of the Cerro Negro Project into a  mixed enterprise  and an increase in PdVSA s or one of its
  
         78   

Table of Contents  

  Index to Financial Statements  

affiliate s ownership interest in the Project, with the stipulation that if ExxonMobil refused to accept the terms for the formation of the mixed enterprise within a specified period of
time, the government would  directly assume the activities  carried out by the joint venture. ExxonMobil refused to accede to the terms proffered by the government, and on June 27, 2007, the government expropriated ExxonMobil s 41.67
percent interest in the Cerro Negro Project. ExxonMobil s remaining net book investment in Cerro Negro producing assets was about $750 million at year-end 2011.      On September 6, 2007, affiliates of ExxonMobil filed a Request for Arbitration with the International Centre for Settlement of Investment Disputes (ICSID) invoking ICSID jurisdiction under Venezuela s
Investment Law and the Netherlands-Venezuela Bilateral Investment Treaty. The ICSID Tribunal issued a decision on June 10, 2010, finding that it had jurisdiction to proceed on the basis of the Netherlands-Venezuela Bilateral Investment Treaty. The
ICSID arbitration proceeding is continuing and a hearing on the merits was held in February 2012. At this time, the net impact of these matters on the Corporation s consolidated financial results cannot be reasonably estimated. Regardless, the
Corporation does not expect the resolution to have a material effect upon the Corporation s operations or financial condition.   
  An affiliate of ExxonMobil, Mobil Cerro Negro, Ltd. (MCN), also filed an arbitration under the rules of the International Chamber of Commerce
(ICC) against PdVSA and a PdVSA affiliate, PdVSA CN, for breach of their contractual obligations under certain Cerro Negro Project agreements. On December 23, 2011, the tribunal rendered its award which found PdVSA and PdVSA CN jointly and severally
liable to MCN in the amount of about $908 million. The tribunal deducted approximately $161 million of uncontested debt owed by MCN to PdVSA and PdVSA CN, leaving a balance of about $747 million. Post-award interest on this net amount was set at the
New York prime rate compounded annually and running from the date of the award. The tribunal granted PdVSA and PdVSA CN a sixty-day grace period in which to comply with the award. On January 26, 2012, MCN filed a motion to confirm the award against
PdVSA CN. In response to an order to show cause filed by PdVSA on January 17, 2012, the United States District Court for the Southern District of New York, on February 1, 2012, ordered the release to MCN of approximately $305 million of PdVSA CN
funds previously attached in connection with the arbitration in partial satisfaction of the award. MCN received those funds on February 10, 2012. In further satisfaction of the award, PdVSA cancelled approximately $195 million in MCN bond debt on
February 13, 2012. PdVSA paid MCN the balance of the monetary portion of the award on February 14, 2012.      An affiliate of ExxonMobil
is one of the Contractors under a Production Sharing Contract (PSC) with the Nigerian National Petroleum Corporation (NNPC) covering the Erha block located in the offshore waters of Nigeria. ExxonMobil s affiliate is the operator of the
block and owns a 56.25 percent interest under the PSC. The Contractors are in dispute with NNPC regarding NNPC s lifting of crude oil in excess of its entitlement under the terms of the PSC. In accordance with the terms of the PSC,
the Contractors initiated arbitration in Abuja, Nigeria, under the Nigerian Arbitration and Conciliation Act. On October 24, 2011, a three-member arbitral Tribunal issued an award upholding the Contractors  position in all material
respects and awarding damages to the Contractors jointly in an amount of approximately $1.8 billion plus $234 million in accrued interest. The Contractors have petitioned a Nigerian federal court for enforcement of the award, and NNPC has petitioned
the same court to have the award set aside. Those proceedings are pending. At this time, the net impact of this matter on the Corporation s consolidated financial results cannot be reasonably estimated. However, regardless of the
outcome of enforcement proceedings, the Corporation does not expect the proceedings to have a material effect upon the Corporation s operations or financial condition.         
         79   

Table of Contents  

  Index to Financial Statements  

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS          

      16. Pension and Other Postretirement Benefits    
   The benefit obligations and plan assets associated with the Corporation s principal benefit plans are measured on December 31.

(1)   
   Benefit payments for funded and unfunded plans.          
 
      For U.S. plans, the discount rate is determined by constructing a portfolio of
high-quality, noncallable bonds with cash flows that match estimated outflows for benefit payments. For major non-U.S. plans, the discount rate is determined by using bond portfolios with an average maturity approximating that of the
liabilities or spot yield curves, both of which are constructed using high-quality, local-currency-denominated bonds.      The
measurement of the accumulated postretirement benefit obligation assumes an initial health care cost trend rate of 5.5 percent that declines to 4.5 percent by 2015. A one-percentage-point increase in the health care cost trend rate would
increase service and interest cost by $63 million and the postretirement benefit obligation by $696 million. A one-percentage-point decrease in the health care cost trend rate would decrease service and interest cost by $49 million and the
postretirement benefit obligation by $567 million.       

(1)   
   Benefit payments for funded plans.      
         80   

Table of Contents  

  Index to Financial Statements  

       The funding levels of all qualified pension plans are in compliance with standards set by
applicable law or regulation. As shown in the table below, certain smaller U.S. pension plans and a number of non-U.S. pension plans are not funded because local tax conventions and regulatory practices do not encourage funding of these plans.
All defined benefit pension obligations, regardless of the funding status of the underlying plans, are fully supported by the financial strength of the Corporation or the respective sponsoring affiliate.   
   
        The authoritative guidance for defined benefit pension and
other postretirement plans requires an employer to recognize the overfunded or underfunded status of a defined benefit postretirement plan as an asset or liability in its statement of financial position and to recognize changes in that funded status
in the year in which the changes occur through other comprehensive income.       

(1)   
   Fair value of assets less benefit obligation shown on the preceding page.      
         81   

Table of Contents  

  Index to Financial Statements  

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS          
       The long-term expected rate of return on funded assets shown below is established for each
benefit plan by developing a forward-looking, long-term return assumption for each asset class, taking into account factors such as the expected real return for the specific asset class and inflation. A single, long-term rate of return is then
calculated as the weighted average of the target asset allocation and the long-term return assumption for each asset class.       
    Costs for defined contribution plans were $378 million, $347 million and $339 million in 2011, 2010 and 2009, respectively.
     A summary of the change in accumulated other comprehensive income is shown in the table below:   

82   

Table of Contents  

  Index to Financial Statements  

       The Corporation s investment strategy for benefit plan assets reflects a long-term view, a
careful assessment of the risks inherent in various asset classes and broad diversification to reduce the risk of the portfolio. The benefit plan assets are primarily invested in passive equity and fixed income index funds to diversify risk
while minimizing costs. The equity funds hold ExxonMobil stock only to the extent necessary to replicate the relevant equity index. The fixed income funds are largely invested in high-quality corporate and government debt securities.   
  Studies are periodically conducted to establish the preferred target asset allocation. The target asset allocation for the U.S. benefit plans is
50 percent equity securities and 50 percent debt securities. The target asset allocation for the non-U.S. plans in aggregate is 47 percent equities, 50 percent debt and 3 percent real estate funds. The equity targets for the U.S. and non-U.S. plans
include an allocation to private equity partnerships that primarily focus on early-stage venture capital of 5 percent and 3 percent, respectively.      The fair value measurement levels are accounting terms that refer to different methods of valuing assets. The terms do not represent the relative risk or credit quality of an investment.   
      The 2011 fair value of the benefit plan assets, including the level within the fair value
hierarchy, is shown in the tables below:       

(1)   
   For U.S. and non-U.S. equity securities held in the form of fund units that are redeemable at the measurement date, the unit value is treated as a Level 2 input. The fair
value of the securities owned by the funds is based on observable quoted prices on active exchanges, which are Level 1 inputs.          

(2)   
   For non-U.S. equity securities held in separate accounts, fair value is based on observable quoted prices on active exchanges.      

(3)   
   For private equity, fair value is generally established by using revenue or earnings multiples or other relevant market data including Initial Public Offerings.

(4)   
   For corporate, government and asset-backed debt securities, fair value is based on observable inputs of comparable market transactions.      

(5)   
   For corporate and government debt securities that are traded on active exchanges, fair value is based on observable quoted prices.      

(6)   
   For private mortgages, fair value is based on proprietary credit spread matrices developed using market data and monthly surveys of active mortgage bankers.

(7)   
   For real estate funds, fair value is based on appraised values developed using comparable market transactions.      

(8)   
   For cash balances held in the form of short-term fund units that are redeemable at the measurement date, the fair value is treated as a Level 2 input.

(9)   
   For cash balances that are subject to withdrawal penalties or other adjustments, the fair value is treated as a Level 2 input.      
         83   

Table of Contents  

  Index to Financial Statements  

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS          

(1)   
   For U.S. and non-U.S. equity securities held in the form of fund units that are redeemable at the measurement date, the unit value is treated as a Level 2 input. The fair
value of the securities owned by the funds is based on observable quoted prices on active exchanges, which are Level 1 inputs.          

(2)   
   For private equity, fair value is generally established by using revenue or earnings multiples or other relevant market data including Initial Public Offerings.

(3)   
   For corporate, government and asset-backed debt securities, fair value is based on observable inputs of comparable market transactions.      
  The change in the fair value in 2011 of Level 3 assets that use significant unobservable inputs to measure fair value is shown in the table below:   

84   

Table of Contents  

  Index to Financial Statements  

   The 2010 fair value of the benefit plan assets, including the level within the fair value hierarchy, is shown in
the tables below:       

(1)   
   For U.S. and non-U.S. equity securities held in the form of fund units that are redeemable at the measurement date, the unit value is treated as a Level 2 input. The fair
value of the securities owned by the funds is based on observable quoted prices on active exchanges, which are Level 1 inputs.          

(2)   
   For non-U.S. equity securities held in separate accounts, fair value is based on observable quoted prices on active exchanges.      

(3)   
   For private equity, fair value is generally established by using revenue or earnings multiples or other relevant market data including Initial Public Offerings.

(4)   
   For corporate, government and asset-backed debt securities, fair value is based on observable inputs of comparable market transactions.      

(5)   
   For corporate and government debt securities that are traded on active exchanges, fair value is based on observable quoted prices.      

(6)   
   For private mortgages, fair value is based on proprietary credit spread matrices developed using market data and monthly surveys of active mortgage bankers.

(7)   
   For real estate funds, fair value is based on appraised values developed using comparable market transactions.      

(8)   
   For cash balances that are subject to withdrawal penalties or other adjustments, the fair value is treated as a Level 2 input.      
         85   

Table of Contents  

  Index to Financial Statements  

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS          

(1)   
   For U.S. and non-U.S. equity securities held in the form of fund units that are redeemable at the measurement date, the unit value is treated as a Level 2 input. The fair
value of the securities owned by the funds is based on observable quoted prices on active exchanges, which are Level 1 inputs.          

(2)   
   For private equity, fair value is generally established by using revenue or earnings multiples or other relevant market data including Initial Public Offerings.

(3)   
   For corporate, government and asset-backed debt securities, fair value is based on observable inputs of comparable market transactions.      

(4)   
   For private mortgages, fair value is based on proprietary credit spread matrices developed using market data and monthly surveys of active mortgage bankers.
        The change in the fair value in 2010 of Level 3 assets that use significant unobservable inputs to measure fair value is shown in
the table below:       
       
         86   

Table of Contents  

  Index to Financial Statements  

   A summary of pension plans with an accumulated benefit obligation in excess of plan assets is shown in the table
below:       

(1)   
   The Corporation amortizes the net balance of actuarial losses/(gains) as a component of net periodic benefit cost over the average remaining service period of active plan
participants.          

(2)   
   The Corporation amortizes prior service cost on a straight-line basis as permitted under authoritative guidance for defined benefit pension and other postretirement benefit
plans.          
     
      17. Disclosures about Segments and Related Information    
   The Upstream, Downstream and Chemical functions best define the operating segments of the business that are reported separately. The factors
used to identify these reportable segments are based on the nature of the operations that are undertaken by each segment. The Upstream segment is organized and operates to explore for and produce crude oil and natural gas. The Downstream segment is
organized and operates to manufacture and sell petroleum products. The Chemical segment is organized and operates to manufacture and sell petrochemicals. These segments are broadly understood across the petroleum and petrochemical industries.
     These functions have been defined as the operating segments of the Corporation because they are the segments (1) that engage in
business activities from which revenues are earned and expenses are incurred; (2) whose operating results are regularly reviewed by the Corporation s chief operating decision maker to make decisions about resources to be allocated to the
segment and assess its performance; and (3) for which discrete financial information is available.      Earnings after income tax
include special items, and transfers are at estimated market prices. Earnings for 2009 included a special charge of $140 million in the corporate and financing segment for interest related to the Valdez punitive damages award.   
  Interest expense includes non-debt-related interest expense of $165 million, $41 million and $500 million in 2011, 2010 and 2009, respectively.
Higher expenses in 2009 primarily reflect interest provisions related to the Valdez litigation.      In corporate and financing
activities, interest revenue relates to interest earned on cash deposits and marketable securities.   
         87   

Table of Contents  

  Index to Financial Statements  

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS          

88   

Table of Contents  

  Index to Financial Statements  

18. Income, Sales-Based and Other Taxes    
    
        All other taxes and duties include taxes reported in
production and manufacturing and selling, general and administrative (SG A) expenses. The above provisions for deferred income taxes include net credits of $330 million in 2011 and $9 million in 2009 and a net charge of $175 million in 2010 for
the effect of changes in tax laws and rates.      Income taxes (charged)/credited directly to equity were:   
   
    The reconciliation between income tax expense and a theoretical U.S. tax computed by applying a rate of 35 percent for
2011, 2010 and 2009 is as follows:       
     
         89   

Table of Contents  

  Index to Financial Statements  

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS          
   Deferred income taxes reflect the impact of temporary differences between the amount of assets and liabilities
recognized for financial reporting purposes and such amounts recognized for tax purposes.      Deferred tax liabilities/(assets) are
comprised of the following at December 31:       
    Deferred income tax (assets) and liabilities are included in the balance sheet as shown below. Deferred income tax (assets) and
liabilities are classified as current or long term consistent with the classification of the related temporary difference   separately by tax jurisdiction.       
    The Corporation had $47 billion of indefinitely reinvested, undistributed earnings from subsidiary companies outside the
U.S. Unrecognized deferred taxes on remittance of these funds are not expected to be material.       Unrecognized Tax Benefits    
  The Corporation is subject to income taxation in many jurisdictions around the world. Unrecognized tax benefits reflect the difference between positions taken or
expected to be taken on income tax returns and the amounts recognized in the financial statements. Resolution of the related tax positions through negotiations with the relevant tax authorities or through litigation will take many years to complete.
It is difficult to predict the timing of resolution for tax positions since such timing is not entirely within the control of the Corporation. It is reasonably possible that the total amount of unrecognized tax benefits could increase by up to
50 percent in the next 12 months, with no material impact on near-term earnings. Given the long time periods involved in resolving tax positions, the Corporation does not expect that the recognition of unrecognized tax benefits will have a
material impact on the Corporation s effective income tax rate in any given year.      The following table summarizes the movement in
unrecognized tax benefits.       
    The additions and reductions in unrecognized tax benefits shown above include effects related to net income and equity, and
timing differences for which the ultimate deductibility is highly certain but for which there is uncertainty about the timing of such deductibility. The 2011, 2010 and 2009 changes in unrecognized tax benefits did not have a material effect on the
Corporation s net income or cash flow.      The following table summarizes the tax years that remain subject to examination by major
tax jurisdiction:       
    The Corporation classifies interest on income tax-related balances as interest expense or interest income and
classifies tax-related penalties as operating expense.      The Corporation incurred $62 million in interest expense on income tax
reserves in 2011. For 2010, interest expense was a credit of $39 million, reflecting the effect of credits from the net favorable resolution of prior year tax positions. The Corporation incurred approximately $135 million in interest expense on
income tax reserves in 2009. The related interest payable balances were $662 million and $636 million at December 31, 2011, and 2010, respectively.         
         90   

Table of Contents  

  Index to Financial Statements  

19. Acquisition of XTO Energy Inc.    
      Description of the Transaction.  On June 25, 2010, ExxonMobil acquired XTO Energy Inc. (XTO) by merging a wholly-owned subsidiary
of ExxonMobil with and into XTO (the  merger ), with XTO continuing as the surviving corporation and wholly-owned subsidiary of ExxonMobil. XTO is involved in the exploration for, production of, and transportation and sale of crude oil and
natural gas.      At the effective time of the merger, each share of XTO common stock was converted into the right to receive 0.7098
shares of common stock of ExxonMobil (the  Exchange Ratio ), with cash being paid in lieu of any fractional shares of ExxonMobil stock. Also at the effective time, each outstanding option to purchase XTO common stock was converted into an
option to purchase a number of shares of ExxonMobil stock based on the Exchange Ratio, and each outstanding stock-based award of XTO was converted into a stock-based award of ExxonMobil stock based on the Exchange Ratio.   
  The components of the consideration transferred follow:       

(1)   
   The fair value of the Corporation s common stock on the acquisition date was $59.10 per share based on the closing value on the NYSE. The Corporation issued 416
million shares of stock previously held in treasury. The treasury stock issued, based on the average cost, was valued at $21,139 million. The excess of the fair value of the consideration transferred over the cost of treasury stock issued was $3,520
million and was included in common stock without par value.      

(2)   
   The portion of the fair value of XTO converted stock-based awards attributable to pre-merger employee service was part of consideration. The remaining fair value of the
awards is recognized over the requisite service period.            Recording of Assets Acquired and Liabilities Assumed.  The
transaction was accounted for using the acquisition method of accounting, which requires, among other things, that assets acquired and liabilities assumed be recognized at their fair values as of the acquisition date.   
  The following table summarizes the assets acquired and liabilities assumed:   

(1)   
   Property, plant and equipment were measured primarily using an income approach. The fair value measurements of the oil and gas assets were based, in part, on significant
inputs not observable in the market and thus represent a Level 3 measurement. The significant inputs included XTO resources, assumed future production profiles, commodity prices (mainly based on observable market inputs), risk adjusted discount rate
of 7 percent, inflation of 2 percent and assumptions on the timing and amount of future development and operating costs. The property, plant and equipment additions were segmented to the Upstream business, with substantially all of the assets in the
United States.      

(2)   
   Goodwill was the excess of the consideration transferred over the net assets recognized and represents the future economic benefits arising from other assets acquired that
could not be individually identified and separately recognized. Goodwill was recognized in the Upstream reporting unit. Goodwill is not amortized and is not deductible for tax purposes.      

(3)   
   Long-term debt was recognized at market rates at closing (Level 1).      

(4)   
   Deferred income taxes reflect the temporary differences between the amount of assets and liabilities recognized for financial reporting purposes and such amounts recognized
for tax purposes.         The 2010 unaudited pro forma revenues of $373 billion, net income attributable to ExxonMobil of $31 billion,
earnings per common share of $6.03 and earnings per common share assuming dilution of $6.01 for the Corporation were calculated as if the merger of XTO had occurred at the beginning of 2010. The historical financial information was adjusted to give
effect to the pro forma events that were directly attributable to the merger and factually supportable. The unaudited pro forma consolidated results are not necessarily indicative of what the consolidated results of operations actually would have
been had the merger been completed on January 1, 2010. In addition, the unaudited pro forma consolidated results do not purport to project the future results of operations of the combined company. The unaudited pro forma consolidated results reflect
pro forma adjustments for the elimination of deferred gains and losses recognized in earnings for derivatives outstanding at the beginning of the year, depreciation expense related to the fair value adjustment to property, plant and equipment
acquired, additional amortization expense related to the fair value of identifiable intangible assets acquired, capitalization of interest expense and applicable income tax impacts.   
      
         91   

Table of Contents  

  Index to Financial Statements  

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS          

      20. Subsequent Event    
   On January 29, 2012, the Corporation announced that it had entered into an agreement which will result in the restructuring of its Downstream
and Chemical holdings in Japan. Under the agreement, TonenGeneral Sekiyu K. K. (TG), a consolidated subsidiary owned 50 percent by the Corporation, will purchase for approximately $3.9 billion the Corporation s shares of a wholly-owned
affiliate in Japan, ExxonMobil Yugen Kaisha, which will result in TG acquiring approximately 200 million of its shares currently owned by the Corporation along with other assets. As a result of the restructuring the Corporation s effective
ownership of TG will be reduced to approximately 22 percent. Closing is anticipated in mid-2012.      The major classes of assets and
liabilities that would have been classified as held for sale if the transaction had met the criteria for held for sale accounting at December 31, 2011, were as follows:       

(1)   
   Current assets include $1,882 million of crude oil, products and merchandise inventory.      

(2)   
   On the date the Corporation transfers control to TG, the ExxonMobil share of accumulated other comprehensive income will be recycled as a benefit to earnings. At
December 31, 2011, the total accumulated other comprehensive income was $1,482 million.      
         92   

Table of Contents  

  Index to Financial Statements  

      SUPPLEMENTAL INFORMATION ON OIL AND GAS EXPLORATION AND PRODUCTION ACTIVITIES
(unaudited)             The results of operations for producing activities shown
below do not include earnings from other activities that ExxonMobil includes in the Upstream function, such as oil and gas transportation operations, LNG liquefaction and transportation operations, coal and power operations, technical service
agreements, other nonoperating activities and adjustments for noncontrolling interests. These excluded amounts for both consolidated and equity companies totaled $2,600 million in 2011, $249 million in 2010, and $536 million in 2009. Oil sands
mining operations are included in the results of operations in accordance with Securities and Exchange Commission and Financial Accounting Standards Board rules.       
 
         93   

Table of Contents  

  Index to Financial Statements  

SUPPLEMENTAL INFORMATION ON OIL AND GAS EXPLORATION AND PRODUCTION ACTIVITIES (unaudited)    

94   

Table of Contents  

  Index to Financial Statements  

    Oil and Gas Exploration and Production Costs       The amounts shown for net capitalized costs of consolidated subsidiaries are $6,651 million less at year-end 2011 and $4,729 million less at year-end 2010 than the amounts reported as investments in property,
plant and equipment for the Upstream in Note 8. This is due to the exclusion from capitalized costs of certain transportation and research assets and assets relating to LNG operations. Assets related to oil sands and oil shale mining
operations have been included in the capitalized costs for 2011 and 2010 in accordance with Financial Accounting Standards Board rules.       
 
         95   

Table of Contents  

  Index to Financial Statements  

SUPPLEMENTAL INFORMATION ON OIL AND GAS EXPLORATION AND PRODUCTION ACTIVITIES (unaudited)    
     
    Oil and Gas Exploration and Production Costs (continued)    
  The amounts reported as costs incurred include both capitalized costs and costs charged to expense during the year. Costs incurred also include new asset
retirement obligations established in the current year, as well as increases or decreases to the asset retirement obligation resulting from changes in cost estimates or abandonment date. Total consolidated costs incurred in 2011 were $30,754
million, down $40,058 million from 2010, due primarily to the absence of the acquisition of XTO Energy Inc. 2010 costs were $70,812 million, up $50,305 million from 2009, due primarily to the acquisition of XTO Energy Inc. Total equity company costs
incurred in 2011 were $1,226 million, up $312 million from 2010, due primarily to higher development costs.       
 
         96   

Table of Contents  

  Index to Financial Statements  

    Oil and Gas Reserves       The following information describes changes during the years and balances of proved oil and gas reserves at year-end 2009, 2010, and 2011.      The definitions used are in accordance with the Securities and Exchange Commission s Rule 4-10 (a) of Regulation S-X.      Proved oil and gas reserves are those quantities of oil and gas, which, by analysis of geoscience and engineering data, can be estimated with reasonable certainty to be economically producible   from a
given date forward, from known reservoirs, and under existing economic conditions, operating methods and government regulations   prior to the time at which contracts providing the right to operate expire, unless evidence indicates that renewal
is reasonably certain. In some cases, substantial new investments in additional wells and related facilities will be required to recover these proved reserves.      In accordance with the Securities and Exchange Commission s rules, the year-end reserves volumes as well as the reserves change categories shown in the following tables were calculated using average prices
during the 12-month period prior to the ending date of the period covered by the report, determined as an unweighted arithmetic average of the first-day-of-the-month price for each month within such period. These reserves quantities are also used in
calculating unit-of-production depreciation rates and in calculating the standardized measure of discounted net cash flow.      Revisions
can include upward or downward changes in previously estimated volumes of proved reserves for existing fields due to the evaluation or re-evaluation of (1) already available geologic, reservoir or production data, (2) new geologic,
reservoir or production data or (3) changes in average prices and year-end costs that are used in the estimation of reserves. This category can also include significant changes in either development strategy or production equipment/facility
capacity.      Proved reserves include 100 percent of each majority-owned affiliate s participation in proved reserves and
ExxonMobil s ownership percentage of the proved reserves of equity companies, but exclude royalties and quantities due others. Gas reserves exclude the gaseous equivalent of liquids expected to be removed from the gas on leases, at field
facilities and at gas processing plants. These liquids are included in net proved reserves of crude oil and natural gas liquids.      In
the proved reserves tables, consolidated reserves and equity company reserves are reported separately. However, the Corporation does not view equity company reserves any differently than those from consolidated companies.   
  Reserves reported under production sharing and other nonconcessionary agreements are based on the economic interest as defined by the specific
fiscal terms in the agreement. The production and reserves that we report for these types of arrangements typically vary inversely with oil and gas price changes. As oil and gas prices increase, the cash flow and value received by the company
increase; however, the production volumes and reserves required to achieve this value will typically be lower because of the higher prices. When prices decrease, the opposite effect generally occurs. The percentage of total liquids and natural gas
proved reserves (consolidated subsidiaries plus equity companies) at year-end 2011 that were associated with production sharing contract arrangements was 14 percent of liquids, 9 percent of natural gas and 11 percent on an oil-equivalent basis (gas
converted to oil-equivalent at 6 billion cubic feet = 1 million barrels).      Net proved developed reserves are those volumes that
are expected to be recovered through existing wells with existing equipment and operating methods or in which the cost of the required equipment is relatively minor compared to the cost of a new well. Net proved undeveloped reserves are those
volumes that are expected to be recovered from new wells on undrilled acreage, or from existing wells where a relatively major expenditure is required for recompletion.      Crude oil and natural gas liquids and natural gas production quantities shown are the net volumes withdrawn from ExxonMobil s oil and gas reserves. The natural gas quantities differ from the quantities of
gas delivered for sale by the producing function as reported in the Operating Summary due to volumes consumed or flared and inventory changes.      In accordance with the Securities and Exchange Commission s rules, bitumen extracted through mining activities and hydrocarbons from other non-traditional resources are reported as oil and gas reserves
beginning in 2009.      The rules in 2009 adopted a reliable technology definition that permits reserves to be added based on technologies
that have been field tested and have been demonstrated to provide reasonably certain results with consistency and repeatability in the formation being evaluated.      The changes between 2010 year-end proved reserves and 2011 year-end proved reserves reflect the initial booking of the Kearl Expansion project in Canada.   
         97   

Table of Contents  

  Index to Financial Statements  

SUPPLEMENTAL INFORMATION ON OIL AND GAS EXPLORATION AND PRODUCTION ACTIVITIES (unaudited)    

(1)   
   Total proved reserves of 630 million barrels at January 1, 2009, associated with the Cold Lake field in Canada are reported as bitumen reserves under the amended Securities
and Exchange Commission s Rule 4-10 of Regulation S-X.      
         98   

Table of Contents  

  Index to Financial Statements  

(1)   
   Includes total proved reserves attributable to Imperial Oil Limited of 10 million barrels, as well as proved developed reserves of 10 million barrels, in which there is a
30.4 percent noncontrolling interest.      
         99   

Table of Contents  

  Index to Financial Statements  

SUPPLEMENTAL INFORMATION ON OIL AND GAS EXPLORATION AND PRODUCTION ACTIVITIES (unaudited)    

(4)   
   See previous page for natural gas liquids proved reserves attributable to consolidated subsidiaries and equity companies. For additional information on natural gas liquids
proved reserves see Item 2. Properties in ExxonMobil s 2011 Form 10-K.      
         100   

Table of Contents  

  Index to Financial Statements  

(See footnotes on next page)    
         101   

Table of Contents  

  Index to Financial Statements  

SUPPLEMENTAL INFORMATION ON OIL AND GAS EXPLORATION AND PRODUCTION ACTIVITIES (unaudited)    

(2)   
   Natural gas is converted to oil-equivalent basis at six million cubic feet per one thousand barrels.      
     
         102   

Table of Contents  

  Index to Financial Statements  

(See footnotes on previous page)    
         103   

Table of Contents  

  Index to Financial Statements  

SUPPLEMENTAL INFORMATION ON OIL AND GAS EXPLORATION AND PRODUCTION ACTIVITIES (unaudited)    
     
    Standardized Measure of Discounted Future Cash Flows    
      As required by the Financial Accounting Standards Board, the standardized measure of
discounted future net cash flows is computed by applying first-day-of-the-month average prices, year-end costs and legislated tax rates and a discount factor of 10 percent to net proved reserves. The standardized measure includes costs for
future dismantlement, abandonment and rehabilitation obligations. The Corporation believes the standardized measure does not provide a reliable estimate of the Corporation s expected future cash flows to be obtained from the
development and production of its oil and gas properties or of the value of its proved oil and gas reserves. The standardized measure is prepared on the basis of certain prescribed assumptions including first-day-of-the-month average prices, which
represent discrete points in time and therefore may cause significant variability in cash flows from year to year as prices change.       

(1)   
   Includes discounted future net cash flows attributable to Imperial Oil Limited of $10,088 million in 2009, in which there is a 30.4 percent noncontrolling interest.
     
         104   

Table of Contents  

  Index to Financial Statements  

105   

Table of Contents  

  Index to Financial Statements  

SUPPLEMENTAL INFORMATION ON OIL AND GAS EXPLORATION AND PRODUCTION ACTIVITIES (unaudited)    
     
    Change in Standardized Measure of Discounted Future Net Cash Flows Relating to Proved Oil and Gas Reserves

(1)   
   Discounted future net cash flows associated with synthetic oil reserves and bitumen mining operations in 2009 were $5,268 million. Cold Lake bitumen operations had been
included in discounted future net cash flows in previous years as an oil and gas operation.          

(2)   
   The estimated impact of adopting the reliable technology definition and changing from year-end price to first-day-of-the-month average prices in the Securities and Exchange
Commission s Rule 4-10 of Regulation S-X was de minimis on discounted future net cash flows for consolidated and equity subsidiaries in 2009.          
 
         106   

Table of Contents  

  Index to Financial Statements  

    Change in Standardized Measure of Discounted Future Net Cash Flows Relating to Proved Oil and Gas Reserves

107   

Table of Contents  

  Index to Financial Statements  

      OPERATING SUMMARY (unaudited)    
   
     Operating statistics include 100 percent of operations of majority-owned subsidiaries; for other companies, crude production,
gas, petroleum product and chemical prime product sales include ExxonMobil s ownership percentage and refining throughput includes quantities processed for ExxonMobil. Net production excludes royalties and quantities due others when produced,
whether payment is made in kind or cash.        

(1)   
   Gas converted to oil-equivalent at 6 million cubic feet = 1 thousand barrels.      

(2)   
   Petroleum product sales data reported net of purchases/sales contracts with the same counterparty.      
         108   

Table of Contents  

  Index to Financial Statements  

      SIGNATURES    
   Pursuant to the requirements of Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be
signed on its behalf by the undersigned, thereunto duly authorized.         

EXXON MOBIL CORPORATION   

By:  
     
  /s/    REX W. TILLERSON           

(Rex W. Tillerson,     Chairman of the Board)    
 
   Dated February 24, 2012        
        POWER OF ATTORNEY
       Each person whose signature appears below constitutes and appoints Randall M. Ebner, Leonard M. Fox and Catherine C. Shae and
each of them, his or her true and lawful attorneys-in-fact and agents, with full power of substitution and resubstitution, for him or her and in his or her name, place and stead, in any and all capacities, to sign any and all amendments to this
Annual Report on Form 10-K, and to file the same, with all exhibits thereto, and other documents in connection therewith, with the Securities and Exchange Commission, granting unto said attorneys-in-fact and agents, and each of them, full power and
authority to do and perform each and every act and thing requisite and necessary to be done, as fully to all intents and purposes as he or she might or could do in person, hereby ratifying and confirming all that said attorneys-in-fact and agents or
any of them, or their or his or her substitute or substitutes, may lawfully do or cause to be done by virtue hereof.         
        Pursuant to the
requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, this report has been signed below by the following persons on behalf of the registrant and in the capacities indicated and on February 24, 2012.    

/s/    REX W.
TILLERSON             (Rex W. Tillerson)   

Chairman of the Board      (Principal Executive Officer)    

/s/    MICHAEL J.
BOSKIN             (Michael J. Boskin)   

Director   

/s/    PETER
BRABECK-LETMATHE             (Peter Brabeck-Letmathe)   

Director   

/s/    LARRY R.
FAULKNER             (Larry R. Faulkner)   

Director   

/s/    JAY S.
FISHMAN             (Jay S. Fishman)   

Director   

/s/    KENNETH C.
FRAZIER             (Kenneth C. Frazier)   

Director   

/s/    WILLIAM W.
GEORGE             (William W. George)   

Director    
         109   

Table of Contents  

  Index to Financial Statements  

/s/    MARILYN CARLSON
NELSON             (Marilyn Carlson Nelson)   

Director   

/s/    SAMUEL J.
PALMISANO             (Samuel J. Palmisano)   

Director   

/s/    STEVEN S
REINEMUND             (Steven S Reinemund)   

Director   

/s/    EDWARD E. WHITACRE,
JR.             (Edward E. Whitacre, Jr.)   

Director   

/s/    DONALD D.
HUMPHREYS             (Donald D. Humphreys)   

Senior Vice President      (Principal Financial Officer)    

/s/    PATRICK T.
MULVA             (Patrick T. Mulva)   

Controller (Principal Accounting Officer)   
 
         110   

Table of Contents  

  Index to Financial Statements  

      INDEX TO EXHIBITS    

3(i)  
      
    Restated Certificate of Incorporation, as restated November 30, 1999, and as further amended effective June 20, 2001 (incorporated
by reference to Exhibit 3(i) to the Registrant s Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the quarter ended June 30, 2011).    

3(ii)  
      
    By-Laws, as revised to April 27, 2011 (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 3(ii) to the Registrant s Report on Form 8-K on April
29, 2011).    

10(iii)(a.1)  
      
    2003 Incentive Program (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10(iii)(a.1) to the Registrant s Quarterly Report on
Form 10-Q for the quarter ended March 31, 2008).*    

10(iii)(a.2)  
      
    Form of restricted stock agreement with executive officers (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 99.2 to the Registrant s
Report on Form 8-K of November 30, 2011).*    

10(iii)(a.3)  
      
    Extended Provisions for Restricted Stock Unit Agreements-Settlement in Shares.*    

10(iii)(b.1)  
      
    Short Term Incentive Program, as amended (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 99.3 to the Registrant s Report on
Form 8-K on December 1, 2009).*    

10(iii)(b.2)  
      
    Form of Earnings Bonus Unit granted to executive officers (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 99.1 to the Registrant s
Report on Form 8-K on November 30, 2011).*    

10(iii)(c.1)  
      
    ExxonMobil Supplemental Savings Plan.*    

10(iii)(c.2)  
      
    ExxonMobil Supplemental Pension Plan.*    

10(iii)(c.3)  
      
    ExxonMobil Additional Payments Plan.*    

10(iii)(d)  
      
    ExxonMobil Executive Life Insurance and Death Benefit Plan.*    

10(iii)(f.1)  
      
    2004 Non-Employee Director Restricted Stock Plan (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10(iii)(f.1) to the Registrant s
Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the quarter ended March 31, 2009).*    

10(iii)(f.2)  
      
    Standing resolution for non-employee director restricted grants dated September 26, 2007 (incorporated by reference to
Exhibit 99.2 to the Registrant s Report on Form 8-K on September 27, 2007).*    

10(iii)(f.3)  
      
    Form of restricted stock grant letter for non-employee directors (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10(iii)(f.3) to the
Registrant s Annual Report on Form 10-K for 2009).*    

10(iii)(f.4)  
      
    Standing resolution for non-employee director cash fees dated October 26, 2011 (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10(iii)(f.4) to the
Registrant s Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the quarter ended September 30, 2011).*    

10(iii)(g.3)  
      
    1984 Mobil Compensation Management Retention Plan.*    

12  
      
    Computation of ratio of earnings to fixed charges.    

14  
      
    Code of Ethics and Business Conduct (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 14 to the Registrant s Annual Report on
Form 10-K for 2008).    

21  
      
    Subsidiaries of the registrant.    

23  
      
    Consent of PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP, Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm.    

31.1  
      
    Certification (pursuant to Securities Exchange Act Rule 13a-14(a)) by Chief Executive Officer.    

31.2  
      
    Certification (pursuant to Securities Exchange Act Rule 13a-14(a)) by Principal Financial Officer.    

31.3  
      
    Certification (pursuant to Securities Exchange Act Rule 13a-14(a)) by Principal Accounting Officer.    

32.1  
      
    Section 1350 Certification (pursuant to Sarbanes-Oxley Section 906) by Chief Executive Officer.    

32.2  
      
    Section 1350 Certification (pursuant to Sarbanes-Oxley Section 906) by Principal Financial Officer.    

32.3  
      
    Section 1350 Certification (pursuant to Sarbanes-Oxley Section 906) by Principal Accounting Officer.    

101  
      
    Interactive data files.    
 
         111   

Table of Contents  

  Index to Financial Statements  

    INDEX TO EXHIBITS (continued)    

*  
  Compensatory plan or arrangement required to be identified pursuant to Item 15(a)(3) of this Annual Report on Form 10-K.     
  The registrant has not filed with this report copies of the instruments defining the rights of holders of long-term debt of the registrant and
its subsidiaries for which consolidated or unconsolidated financial statements are required to be filed. The registrant agrees to furnish a copy of any such instrument to the Securities and Exchange Commission upon request.   
         112   

<EX-10.(III) (A.3)>
 2
 d257530dex10iiia3.htm
 EXTENDED PROVISIONS FOR RESTRICTED STOCK UNIT AGREEMENTS-SETTLEMENT IN SHARES

Extended Provisions for Restricted Stock Unit Agreements-Settlement in Shares 

EXHIBIT 10(iii)(a.3)               November 30, 2011     
         Exxon Mobil Corporation    
   Extended Provisions for Restricted Stock Unit Agreements   Settlement in Shares    

1.   
     
    Effective Date and Credit of Restricted Stock Units  . If Grantee completes, signs, and returns the signature page of this Agreement to the Corporation in
Dallas County, Texas, U.S.A. on or before March 9, 2012, this Agreement will become effective the date the Corporation receives and accepts the signature page in Dallas County, Texas, U.S.A. After this agreement becomes effective, the
Corporation will credit to Grantee the number of restricted stock units specified on the signature page. Subject to the terms and conditions of this Agreement, each restricted stock unit ( unit ) will entitle Grantee to receive in
settlement of the unit one share of the Corporation s common stock.           

2.   
     
    Conditions  . If credited, the units will be subject to the provisions of this Agreement, and to such regulations and requirements as the administrative
authority of the Program may establish from time to time. The units will be credited to Grantee only on the condition that Grantee accepts such provisions, regulations, and requirements.     

3.   
     
    Restrictions and Risk of Forfeiture  . During the applicable restricted periods specified in section 4 of this Agreement,     

(a)  
     
  the units under restriction may not be sold, assigned, transferred, pledged, or otherwise disposed of or encumbered, and any attempt to do so will be null and void; and

(b)  
     
  the units under restriction may be forfeited as provided in section 6.     

4.   
     
    Restricted Periods  . The restricted periods will commence when the units are credited to Grantee and, unless the units have been forfeited earlier under
section 6, will expire as follows, whether or not Grantee is still an employee:           

(b)  
     
  with respect to the remaining units, on the later to occur of     

(ii)  
     
  the first day of the calendar year immediately following the year in which Grantee terminates;     

except  
  that     

(c)  
     
  the restricted periods will automatically expire with respect to all shares on the death of Grantee.     

5.   
     
    No Obligation to Credit Units  . The Corporation will have no obligation to credit any units and will have no other obligation to Grantee with respect to
the subject matter of this Agreement if Grantee fails to complete, sign, and return the signature page of this Agreement on or before March 9, 2012. In addition, whether or not Grantee has completed, signed, and returned the signature page, the
Corporation will have no obligation to credit any units and will have no other obligation to Grantee with respect to the subject matter of this Agreement if, before the units are credited:     

(a)  
     
  Grantee terminates (other than by death) before standard retirement time within the meaning of the Program, except to the extent the administrative authority of the
Program determines Grantee may receive units under this Agreement; or     

(b)  
     
  Grantee is determined to have engaged in detrimental activity within the meaning of the Program; or     

(c)  
     
  Grantee fails to provide the Corporation with cash for any required taxes due upon crediting the units, if Grantee is required to do so under section 7.

6.   
     
    Forfeiture of Units After Crediting  . Until the applicable restricted period specified in section 4 has expired, the units under restriction will be
forfeited or subject to forfeiture in the following circumstances:                Termination        If Grantee terminates (other than by death) before
standard retirement time within the meaning of the Program, all units for which the applicable restricted periods have not expired will be automatically forfeited as of the date of termination, except to the extent the administrative authority
determines Grantee may retain units issued under this Agreement.              Detrimental activity        If Grantee is determined to have engaged in
detrimental activity within the meaning of the Program, either before or after termination, all units for which the applicable restricted periods have not expired will be automatically forfeited as of the date of such determination.   
         - 1 -

Attempted transfer     
  The units are subject to forfeiture in the discretion of the administrative authority if Grantee attempts to sell, assign, transfer,
pledge, or otherwise dispose of or encumber them during the applicable restricted periods.              Applicable law        The units are subject to forfeiture in whole or in
part as the administrative authority deems necessary in order to comply with applicable law.         

7.   
     
    Taxes .  Notwithstanding the restrictions on transfer that otherwise apply, the Corporation in its sole discretion may withhold units or shares, either at
the time of issuance, at the time the applicable restricted periods expire, or at any other time in order to satisfy any required withholding, social security, and similar taxes or contributions (collectively,  required taxes ). Withheld
units or shares may be retained by the Corporation or sold on behalf of Grantee. If the Corporation does not withhold units or shares to satisfy required taxes, in the alternative the Corporation may require Grantee to deposit with the Corporation
cash in an amount determined by the Corporation to be necessary to satisfy required taxes. Notwithstanding any other provision of this Agreement, the Corporation will be under no obligation to credit units or to deliver shares to Grantee in
settlement of any units if Grantee fails timely to deposit such amount with the Corporation. The Corporation in its sole discretion may also withhold any required taxes from dividends paid on the units.     

8.   
     
    Form of Units; No Shareholder Status .  The units will be represented by book-entry credits in records maintained by or on behalf of the Corporation. Units
will be unfunded and unsecured promises by the Corporation to deliver shares in the future upon the terms and subject to the conditions of this Agreement. Grantee will not be a shareholder of the Corporation with respect to units prior to the time
shares are actually registered in Grantee s name in settlement of such units in accordance with section 9.           

9.   
     
    Settlement of Units .  If and when the applicable restricted period expires with respect to any units, subject to section 7, the Corporation will issue
shares, free of restriction and registered in the name of Grantee, in settlement of such units. Such shares will be delivered promptly after such expiration to or for the account of Grantee either in certificated form or by book-entry transfer in
accordance with the procedures of the administrative authority in effect at the time.           

10.   
     
    Change in Capitalization .  If during the applicable restricted periods a stock split, stock dividend, or other relevant change in capitalization of the
Corporation occurs, the administrative authority will make such adjustments in the number of units credited to Grantee, or in the number and type of securities deliverable to Grantee in settlement of such units and used in determining dividend
equivalent amounts, as the administrative authority may determine to be appropriate. Any resulting new units or securities credited with respect to previously credited units that are still restricted under this Agreement will be delivered to and
held by or on behalf of the Corporation and will be subject to the same provisions, restrictions, and requirements as those previously credited units.     

11.   
     
    Limits on the Corporation s Obligations .  Notwithstanding anything else contained in this Agreement, under no circumstances will the Corporation be
required to credit any units or issue or deliver any shares in settlement of units if doing so would violate any law or listing requirement that the administrative authority determines to be applicable, or if Grantee has failed to provide for
required taxes pursuant to section 7.           

12.   
     
    Receipt or Access to Program .  Grantee acknowledges receipt of or access to the full text of the Program.     

13.   
     
    Dividend Equivalents .  The Corporation will pay to Grantee cash with respect to each credited unit corresponding in amount, currency, and timing to cash
dividends that would be payable with respect to a share of common stock outstanding on each record date that occurs during the applicable restricted period. Alternatively, the administrative authority may determine to reinvest such dividend
equivalents in additional units which will be held subject to all the terms and conditions otherwise applicable to units under this Agreement.           

14.   
     
    Addresses for Communications .  To facilitate communications regarding this Agreement, Grantee agrees to notify the Corporation promptly of changes in
current mailing and email addresses. Communications to the Corporation in connection with this Agreement should be directed to the Incentive Processing Office at the address given on the signature page of this Agreement, or to such other address as
the Corporation may designate by further notice to Grantee.     
         - 2 -

15.   
     
    Transfer of Personal Data.   The administration of the Program and this Agreement, including any subsequent ownership of shares, involve the collection,
use, and transfer of personal data about Grantee between and among the Corporation, selected subsidiaries and other affiliates of the Corporation, and third-party service providers such as Morgan Stanley Smith Barney and Computershare (the
Corporation s transfer agent), as well as various regulatory and tax authorities around the world. This data includes Grantee s name, age, date of birth, contact information, work location, employment status, tax status, social security
number, salary, nationality, job title, share ownership, and details of incentive awards granted, cancelled, vested or unvested, and related information. By accepting this award, Grantee authorizes such collection, use, and transfer of this data.
Grantee may, at any time and without charge, view such data and require necessary corrections to it. Such data will at all times be held in accordance with applicable laws, regulations, and agreements.     

16.   
     
    No Employment Contract or Entitlement to Other or Future Awards .  This Agreement, the Corporation s incentive programs, and Grantee s selection
for incentive awards do not imply or form a part of any contract or assurance of employment, and they do not in any way limit or restrict the ability of Grantee s employer to terminate Grantee s employment. Grantee acknowledges that the
Corporation maintains and administers its incentive programs entirely in its discretion and that Grantee is not entitled to any other or future incentive awards of any kind in addition to those that have already been granted.

17.   
     
    Governing Law and Consent to Jurisdiction .  This Agreement and the Program are governed by the laws of the State of New York without regard to any conflict
of law rules. Any dispute arising out of or relating to this Agreement or the Program may be resolved in any state or federal court located within Dallas County, Texas, U.S.A. Grantee accepts that venue and submits to the personal jurisdiction of
any such court. Similarly, the Corporation accepts such venue and submits to such jurisdiction.           

18.   
     
    Entire Agreement .  This Agreement constitutes the entire understanding between Grantee and the Corporation with respect to the subject matter of this
Agreement.     
         - 3 -

</EX-10.(III) (A.3)>

<EX-10.(III) (C.1)>
 3
 d257530dex10iiic1.htm
 EXXONMOBIL SUPPLEMENTAL SAVINGS PLAN

ExxonMobil Supplemental Savings Plan 

EXHIBIT 10(iii)(c.1)              EXXONMOBIL SUPPLEMENTAL SAVINGS PLAN    
   (including Key Employee Supplemental Savings Plan)    
        1.  Purpose    
        The purpose of this Plan is to provide a payment of approximately equivalent
value from the general assets of Exxon Mobil Corporation ( Corporation ) to a person participating in the ExxonMobil Savings Plan ( Savings Plan ) who, because of the application of United States Internal Revenue Code
( Code ) sections 415 and 401(a)(17) is precluded from receiving employer contributions to the person s Savings Plan account to which the person would otherwise be entitled.            2.  Benefits          

(A)  
     
   In General         As to any
specific Savings Plan participant the total amount of payment under this Plan is an amount that is in general determined by notionally crediting on a monthly basis the amount of employer contributions that cannot be made to the Savings Plan for that
person as a result of application to that person of Code sections 415 and 401(a)(17); except that, for those persons who, as of December 31, 1993, are classified at level 36 and are age 50 and above, only notional employer contributions made
after such date are taken into account. This amount is enhanced in each instance by 120 percent of the long-term Applicable Federal Rate, compounded monthly, as of the last month of each calendar quarter as published by the Internal Revenue Service,
and is then reduced, but not below zero, by the amount, if any, of the actuarial lump-sum value of the amount payable to the participant under the ExxonMobil Key Employee Additional Payments Plan that is not applied as an offset against the
participant s benefit under the ExxonMobil Additional Payments Plan or the ExxonMobil Supplemental Pension Plan. For this purpose, the actuarial lump-sum value shall be determined using the mortality and interest rate assumptions set out in the
ExxonMobil Pension Accounts Instrument.   

(B)  
     
   Notional Interest Rate for Key Employees after Termination or Retirement         As to a participant who, immediately prior to his or her termination or retirement, has a Classification Level of 37 or above ( Key Employee ),  120 percent of the long-term Applicable
Federal Rate, compounded monthly, as of the last month of each calendar quarter as published by the Internal Revenue Service  in paragraph (A) above shall be replaced with  Citibank Prime Lending Rate as of the last business day of
each calendar quarter  for the period between date of termination or retirement and date of payment.   
         1   

2.2  
     
   Calculation Methodology      
  The exact methodology used in determining such monthly credits and interest thereon will be established from time to time by the Plan
Administrator. General guidelines to be followed are:         

(A)  
     
   Required Participant Contributions         To the extent determined by those administering this Plan, a person is required to make regular employee contributions to the person s Savings Plan account up to the maximum permitted by the Code to
receive credits under this Plan.   

(B)  
     
   Discretionary Employee Contributions         Prior to July 1, 2002, a person may not enhance the amounts credited under this Plan by making discretionary employee contributions to the person s Savings Plan account.   
        3.  Payment of Benefits    
        Payment of the benefit determined under article 2 above shall be made in a
lump sum as soon as practicable following the latest of the following times:         

(A)  
     
  the participant s termination of employment or retirement from ExxonMobil;     

(B)  
     
  In the case of a Key Employee, the six-month anniversary of the participant s termination of employment or retirement;     

(C)  
     
  In the case of a participant whose Savings Plan account is transferred to a savings plan sponsored by Infineum USA Inc. or any of its affiliates ( Infineum ),
the participant s termination of employment from Infineum; or     

(D)  
     
  In the case of a participant whose Savings Plan account is transferred to a savings plan sponsored by Tenneco, Inc. or any of its affiliates ( Tenneco ), the
participant s termination of employment from Tenneco.              4.  Payment Upon Death          
    If a person
dies before his benefit under this Plan is distributed to him, then such benefit shall be distributed as soon as practicable after death to the person s beneficiary determined under section 4.2 below.   

4.2  
     
   Designation of Beneficiaries            

(A)  
     
   In General         A person
entitled to receive a payment under this Plan may name one or more designated beneficiaries to receive such payment in the event of the person s death. Beneficiary designations shall be made in accordance with such procedures as the Plan
Administrator may establish. Spousal consent to any designation is not required.   
         2   

(B)  
     
   Default Beneficiaries      

(1)  
     
   In General         If no
specific designation is in effect, the deceased s beneficiary is the person or persons in the first of the following classes of successive beneficiaries living at the time of death of the deceased:   

(a)  
  spouse;     

(b)  
  children who survive the participant or who die before the participant leaving children of their own who survive the participant;     

(c)  
  parents;     

(d)  
  brothers and sisters who survive the participant or who die before the participant leaving children of their own who survive the participant.     
  If there are no members of any class of such beneficiaries, payment is made to the deceased s executors or administrators.

(2)  
     
   Allocation among Default Beneficiaries         If the same class of beneficiaries under paragraph (1) above contains two or more persons, they share equally, with further subdivision of such equal shares as next provided. In class (b), where a
child dies before the participant leaving children who survive the participant, such child s share is subdivided equally among those children. In class (d), where a brother or sister dies before the participant leaving children who survive the
participant, such brother or sister s share is subdivided equally among those children.   

(3)  
     
   Definitions         For
purposes of this Section 4.2,  child  means a person s son or daughter by legitimate blood relationship or legal adoption;  parent  means a person s father or mother by legitimate blood relationship or legal
adoption;  brother  or  sister  means another child of either or both of one s parents.         
  5.  Miscellaneous          

5.1  
     
   Administration of Plan      
  The Plan Administrator shall be the Manager, Compensation, Benefit Plans and Policies, Human Resources Department, Exxon Mobil
Corporation. The Plan Administrator shall have the right and authority to conclusively interpret this Plan for all purposes, including the determination of any person s eligibility for benefits hereunder and the resolution of any and all
appeals relating to claims by participants or beneficiaries, with any such interpretation being conclusive for all participants and beneficiaries.   
         3   

Payments provided under this Plan are considered general obligations of the Corporation.   

5.3  
     
   Assignment or Alienation      
  Except as provided in section 5.5 below, payments provided under this Plan may not be assigned or otherwise alienated or pledged.

5.4  
     
   Amendment or Termination      
  The Corporation reserves the right to amend or terminate this plan, in whole or in part, including the right at any time to reduce or
eliminate any accrued benefits hereunder and to alter or amend the benefit formula set out herein.         

5.5  
     
   Forfeiture of Benefits      
  No person shall be entitled to receive payments under this Plan and any payments received under this Plan shall be forfeited and returned
if it is determined by the Corporation in its sole discretion, acting through its chief executive or such person or committee as the chief executive may designate, that a person otherwise entitled to a payment under this Plan or who has commenced
receiving payments under this Plan:         

(A)  
     
  engaged in gross misconduct harmful to the Corporation,     

(B)  
     
  committed a criminal violation harmful to the Corporation,     

(C)  
     
  had concealed actions described in paragraph (A) or (B) above which would have brought about termination from employment thereby making the person ineligible
for benefits under this Plan,     

(D)  
     
  separated from service prior to attaining age 65 without having received from the Corporation or its delegatee prior written approval for such termination, given in the
sole discretion of the Corporation or its delegatee and in the context of recognition that benefits under this Plan would not be forfeited upon such termination, or     

(E)  
     
  had been terminated for cause.           
  EXXONMOBIL KEY EMPLOYEE SUPPLEMENTAL SAVINGS PLAN         
  K1.  Purpose          
  This Plan provides a payment from the general assets of Exxon Mobil Corporation ( Corporation ) to a person who, as of December 31, 1993,

(A)  
     
  was classified at level 36 or above,     

(C)  
     
  was a participant in the Thrift Plan of Exxon Corporation ( Thrift Plan ), and     

(D)  
     
  had been precluded from receiving employer contributions to the person s account within the Thrift Plan to which the person would otherwise be entitled, because of
the application of United States Internal Revenue Code ( Code ) sections 415 and 401(a)(17).     
         4   

This plan expresses the Corporation s commitment to make such a payment at the time payment is made to
the participant under the ExxonMobil Supplemental Savings Plan, and sets forth the method for doing so.         
  K2.  Benefits          

(A)  
     
   In General         As to a
participant, the total amount of payment under this Plan shall be an amount that has been in general determined by notionally crediting on a monthly basis the amount of employer contributions that could not have been made to the Thrift Plan account
of that person as a result of application to that person of Code sections 415 and 401(a)(17) from the date the person otherwise would have been an eligible participant in the Exxon Supplemental Thrift Plan until December 30, 1993. This amount
shall be enhanced in each instance by 120 percent of the long-term Applicable Federal Rate, compounded monthly, as of the last month of each calendar quarter as published by the Internal Revenue Service. A participant in this Plan shall have a
non-forfeitable right to this amount credited as of December 31, 1993 plus all enhancements.   

(B)  
     
   Notional Interest Rate for Key Employees after Termination or Retirement         As to a participant who, immediately prior to his or her termination or retirement, has a Classification Level of 37 or above,  120 percent of the long-term Applicable Federal Rate, compounded
monthly, as of the last month of each calendar quarter as published by the Internal Revenue Service  in paragraph (A) above shall be replaced with  Citibank Prime Lending Rate as of the last business day of each calendar quarter 
for the period between date of termination or retirement and date of payment.         

K2.2  
     
   Calculation Methodology         The exact methodology for such notional credits and interest thereon shall be determined by the Plan Administrator.         
  K3.  Payment of Benefits          
    Payments under this Plan are made in the form of a lump sum single payment.         
    Payment shall be made under this Plan at the same time as payment is made to the participant under the ExxonMobil Supplemental Savings Plan.   
         5   

K4.  Beneficiaries    

K4.1  
     
   Designation of Beneficiaries         A person entitled to receive a payment under this Plan may name one or more designees to receive such payment in the event of the person s death. Beneficiary designations shall be made in accordance
with such procedures as the Plan Administrator may establish. Spousal consent to any designation is not required.         

K4.2  
     
   Default Beneficiaries            

(A)  
     
   In General         If no
specific designation is in effect, the deceased s beneficiary is the person or persons in the first of the following classes of successive beneficiaries living at the time of death of the deceased:   

(2)  
     
  children who survive the participant or who die before the participant leaving children of their own who survive the participant;     

(4)  
     
  brothers and sisters who survive the participant or who die before the participant leaving children of their own who survive the participant.     
  If there are no members of any class of such beneficiaries, payment is made to the deceased s executors or administrators.

(B)  
     
   Allocation among Default Beneficiaries         If the same class of beneficiaries under paragraph (A) above contains two or more persons, they share equally, with further subdivision of such equal shares as next provided. In class (2), where a
child dies before the participant leaving children who survive the participant, such child s share shall be subdivided equally among those children. In class (4), where a brother or sister dies before the participant leaving children who
survive the participant, such brother or sister s share shall be subdivided equally among those children.   

(C)  
     
   Definitions         For purposes
of this Section K4.2,  child  means a person s son or daughter by legitimate blood relationship or legal adoption;  parent  means a person s father or mother by legitimate blood relationship or legal adoption;
 brother  or  sister  means another child of either or both of one s parents.   
         6   

K5.  Miscellaneous    

K5.1  
     
   Administration of Plan      
  The Plan Administrator shall be the Manager, Compensation, Benefit Plans and Policies, Human Resources Department, ExxonMobil Corporation.
The Plan Administrator shall have the right and authority to conclusively interpret this Plan for all purposes, including the determination of any person s eligibility for benefits hereunder and the resolution of any and all appeals relating to
claims by participants or beneficiaries, with any such interpretation being conclusive for all participants and beneficiaries.         
 
  Payments provided under this Plan shall be considered general obligations of the Corporation.   

K5.3  
     
   Assignment or Alienation      
  Payments provided under this Plan may not be assigned or otherwise alienated or pledged.   

K5.4  
     
   Amendment or Termination      
  The Corporation may at any time amend or terminate this Plan, in whole or in part, so long as the amendment does not deprive any person of
the non-forfeitable right to benefits specifically granted in this Plan.   
         7   

</EX-10.(III) (C.1)>

<EX-10.(III) (C.2)>
 4
 d257530dex10iiic2.htm
 EXXONMOBIL SUPPLEMENTAL PENSION PLAN

ExxonMobil Supplemental Pension Plan 

EXHIBIT 10(iii)(c.2)              EXXONMOBIL SUPPLEMENTAL PENSION PLAN    
   (Including Key Employee Supplemental Pension Plan)    
        1.  Purpose    
        The purpose of this Plan is to provide payments of equivalent value from the
general assets of Exxon Mobil Corporation ( Corporation ) to those participants in the ExxonMobil Pension Plan ( Pension Plan ) who, because of the application of United States Internal Revenue Code ( Code ) sections
415 and 401(a)(17), are precluded from receiving from Pension Plan funded assets all the payments to which they would otherwise be entitled under the Pension Plan s formula.   
        2.  Benefits    

(A)  
     
   In General         Except as
provided in paragraph (B) below with respect to former Mobil employees, as defined in the ExxonMobil Common Provisions, ( Former Mobil Employees ), as to any Pension Plan participant eligible for payment under this Plan, the value of
the payments under this Plan is an amount that when added to the normal form amount that can be paid to the participant from the Pension Plan s qualified funded assets, produces a sum equal to the total normal form amount to which the
participant would be entitled computed under the Pension Plan formula applicable to that participant disregarding any reductions, restrictions, or limitations brought about by the application of Code sections 415 and 401(a)(17), reduced, but not
below zero, by the following amounts:   

(1)  
     
  the amount, if any, payable to the participant under the ExxonMobil Key Employee Supplemental Pension Plan, and     

(2)  
     
  the amount, if any, payable to the participant under the ExxonMobil Key Employee Additional Payments Plan that is not applied as an offset against the
participant s benefit under the ExxonMobil Additional Payments Plan.        Where relevant, this computation is
performed after taking into account any entitlement the participant may have under the Overseas Contributory Annuity Plan. The resulting benefit is expressed in the form of a monthly five-year-certain and life annuity for the life of the participant
commencing at the participant s age 65 ( Normal Retirement Age ).   

(B)  
     
   Benefit Formula for Former Mobil Employee         The payments under this Plan for Former Mobil Employees who retire with eligibility for Incentive Pension Benefits under the ExxonMobil Additional Payments Plan shall be the amounts determined under
paragraph (1) below and, if applicable, paragraph (2) below.   
         1   

(1)  
     
   In General         The amount
benefit determined under this paragraph (1) shall be the lesser of:   

(a)  
  the amount of the person s benefit otherwise determined under paragraph (A) above, or     

(b)  
  the excess if any of the person s Overall Benefit Objective as described in section 2.3(B) of the ExxonMobil Additional Payments Plan, over the sum of the
person s benefit under the ExxonMobil Pension Plan (including any Pre-Social Security Benefit) and the person s Incentive Pension Benefit and Nonqualified PSSP Benefit, if any, as determined under the ExxonMobil Additional Payments Plan,
       expressed in the form of a monthly five-year-certain and life annuity for the life of the participant
commencing at the participant s Normal Retirement Age.   

(2)  
     
   Nonqualified PSSP Benefits         The amount of a person s benefit determined under this paragraph (2) shall be the amount, if any, of any Nonqualified PSSP Benefit determined for such person under the terms of the ExxonMobil
Additional Payments Plan.         

2.2  
     
   Offsets for Other Pension Benefits         A person s benefit determined under section 2.1 shall be offset, but not below zero, by any benefit payable to the person under (A) an offsetting pension that is not qualified under the terms of
the U.S. Internal Revenue Code, (B) a separation payment offset, or (C) a non-U.S. governmental pension offset, as such terms are defined under the ExxonMobil Pension Plan.         

2.3  
     
   Plan Administrator Discretion         The procedure for calculating the benefit for former Mobil employees under section 2.1 above, and for determining the application of the offsets for other pension benefits under section 2.2 above, shall
be determined in the sole and exclusive discretion of the Plan Administrator.            3.  Payment of Benefits          

(A)  
     
   In General         Except as
provided in paragraph (B) or (C) below, payment of the benefit described in article 2 above shall occur as soon as practicable following the later to occur of the following:         

(1)  
     
  the person s termination of employment or retirement from ExxonMobil;     

(2)  
     
  in the case of a person who, immediately prior to his or her termination or retirement, has a Classification Level of 37 or above ( Key Employee ), the
six-month anniversary of the person s termination of employment or retirement;     
         2   

(B)  
     
   Retirement Prior to Age 55      
  In the case of a person who retires from ExxonMobil on account of long-term disability prior to the first of the month in which the person
attains age 55, payment of the benefit described in article 2 above shall occur on the first of the month in which the person attains age 55, or as soon as practicable thereafter.   

(C)  
     
   Termination Prior to Age 50         In the case of a person who terminates employment from ExxonMobil prior to the first of the month in which the person attains age 50, payment of the benefit described in article 2 above shall occur on the
first of the month in which the person attains age 50, or as soon as practicable thereafter.         

3.2  
     
   Reduction for Early Commencement         If payments under this Plan commence prior to the month in which the person reaches Normal Retirement Age, they are reduced by applying the early commencement factors specified under the Pension Plan for
a benefit commencing at the person s then age.         
    Payment
of the benefit described in article 2 above shall be made in a lump sum that is the actuarial equivalent of the five-year-certain and life annuity calculated under section 2.1(A) or 2.1(B)(1) or the actuarial equivalent of the PSSP benefit
calculated under 2.1(B)(2). For this purpose, actuarial equivalence shall be determined by the Plan Administrator using the factors and procedures that are used for the calculation of the lump-sum payment option under the Pension Plan.   

3.4  
     
   Adjustment for Key Employees         If payment of a Key Employee s benefit is delayed for six months following termination or retirement because of the requirement set out in section 3.1(A)(2) above, then instead of the lump-sum
benefit calculated under section 3.3 above, the person shall receive a lump-sum benefit equal to the greater of the following:         

(A)  
     
  The lump-sum payment that would otherwise have been calculated for the person under section 3.3 above as if he were not a Key Employee, based on the payment date that
would have applied to the individual if he were not a Key employee and on the actuarial factors applicable as of such date under the ExxonMobil Pension Plan, plus interest for the period of delayed payment; or     

(B)  
     
  A lump-sum that is the actuarial equivalent of the person s five-year-certain and life annuity calculated as of the delayed payment date and using the actuarial
factors applicable as of the six-month anniversary of the person s retirement date.        Interest shall be
credited under paragraph (A) above, at a rate equal to the Citibank prime lending rate in effect on the date the person separates from employment.   
         3   

4.  Death Benefit    

4.1  
     
   Benefits Payable On Account of Death            

(A)  
     
   In General         In the event
a portion of a pension death benefit or a  career annuity subject to deferred commencement that commences by reason of death  that becomes payable under the terms of the Pension Plan on account of the death of a participant cannot be paid
from the Pension Plan because of the application of Code sections 415 and 401(a)(17), a lump-sum death benefit of equivalent value shall be paid to the participant s beneficiary (as determined under section 4.2 below) under this Plan. For this
purpose, equivalent value shall be determined by the Plan Administrator using the factors and procedures that are used for the calculation of similar benefits under the Pension Plan.   

(B)  
     
   Excluded Benefits      
  Neither the Qualified Joint and Survivor Annuity payment option, nor the Surviving Spouse Annuity benefit, as such are provided for under
the Pension Plan, are provided as benefits under this Plan.         

4.2  
     
   Designation of Beneficiaries            

(A)  
     
   In General         A person may
name one or more designated beneficiaries to receive the benefits payable under this Plan under section 4.1 above in the event of the person s death. Beneficiary designations shall be made in accordance with such procedures as the Plan
Administrator may establish. Spousal consent to any designation is not required.   

(B)  
     
   Default Beneficiaries      

(1)  
     
   In General         If no
specific designation is in effect, the deceased s beneficiary is the person or persons in the first of the following classes of successive beneficiaries living at the time of death of the deceased:   

(a)  
  spouse;     

(b)  
  children who survive the participant or who die before the participant leaving children of their own who survive the participant;     

(c)  
  parents;     

(d)  
  brothers and sisters who survive the participant or who die before the participant leaving children of their own who survive the participant.     
  If there are no members of any class of such beneficiaries, payment is made to the deceased s executors or administrators.
  
         4   

(2)  
     
   Allocation among Default Beneficiaries         If the same class of beneficiaries under paragraph (1) above contains two or more persons, they share equally, with further subdivision of such equal shares as next provided. In class (b), where a
child dies before the participant leaving children who survive the participant, such child s share is subdivided equally among those children. In class (d), where a brother or sister dies before the participant leaving children who survive the
participant, such brother or sister s share is subdivided equally among those children.   

(3)  
     
   Definitions         For
purposes of this section 4.2,  child  means a person s son or daughter by legitimate blood relationship or legal adoption;  parent  means a person s father or mother by legitimate blood relationship or legal adoption;
 brother  or  sister  means another child of either or both of one s parents.         
  5.  Miscellaneous          

5.1  
     
   Administration of Plan      
  The Plan Administrator shall be the Manager, Compensation, Benefit Plans and Policies, Human Resources Department, Exxon Mobil
Corporation. The Plan Administrator shall have the right and authority to conclusively interpret this Plan for all purposes, including the determination of any person s eligibility for benefits hereunder and the resolution of any and all
appeals relating to claims by participants or beneficiaries, with any such interpretation being conclusive for all participants and beneficiaries.         
 
  Payments provided under this Plan are considered general obligations of the Corporation.   

5.3  
     
   Assignment or Alienation      
  Except as provided in section 5.5 below, payments provided under this Plan may not be assigned or otherwise alienated or pledged.

5.4  
     
   Amendment or Termination      
  The Corporation reserves the right to amend or terminate this Plan, in whole or in part, including the right at any time to reduce or
eliminate any accrued benefits hereunder and to alter or amend the benefit formula set out herein.         

5.5  
     
   Forfeiture of Benefits      
  No person shall be entitled to receive payments under this Plan and any payments received under this Plan shall be forfeited and returned
if it is determined by the Corporation in its sole discretion, acting through its chief   
         5   

executive or such person or committee as the chief executive may designate, that a person otherwise entitled to a payment under this Plan or who has commenced receiving payments under this Plan:

(A)  
     
  engaged in gross misconduct harmful to the Corporation,     

(B)  
     
  committed a criminal violation harmful to the Corporation,     

(C)  
     
  had concealed actions described in paragraph (A) or (B) above which would have brought about termination from employment thereby making the person ineligible
for benefits under this Plan,     

(D)  
     
  separated from service prior to attaining Normal Retirement Age without having received from the Corporation or its delegatee prior written approval for such
termination, given in the sole discretion of the Corporation or its delegatee and in the context of recognition that benefits under this Plan would not be forfeited upon such termination, or     

(E)  
     
  had been terminated for cause.           
   KEY EMPLOYEE SUPPLEMENTAL PENSION PLAN          
  K1.  Purpose          
  This Plan provides payments from the general assets of Exxon Mobil Corporation ( Corporation ) to those persons who, as of December 31,
1993,         

(A)  
     
  were classified at level 36 or above,     

(B)  
     
  were age 50 and above, and     

(C)  
     
  were participants in the Annuity Plan of Exxon Corporation ( Annuity Plan ) and who, because of the application of United States Internal Revenue Code
( Code ) sections 415 and 401(a)(17), would have been precluded from receiving from Annuity Plan funded assets all the payments to which they would otherwise be entitled under the Annuity Plan s formula.     
  This Plan expresses the Corporation s commitment to provide such equivalent payments and sets forth the method for doing so.   
        K2.  Benefits    
     
    As to any participant eligible for payment under this Plan, the value of such payments shall be an amount that when added to the normal form amount that could have been paid to the participant from the
Annuity Plan s qualified funded assets, produces a sum equal to the total normal form amount to which the participant would have been entitled computed under the Annuity Plan formula applicable to that participant as of December 31, 1993,
disregarding any reductions, restrictions, or limitations brought about by Code sections 415 and 401(a)(17). Where relevant, all computations will take into account any entitlement the participant may have under the Overseas Contributory Annuity
Plan. A participant in this Plan shall have a non-forfeitable right to this amount.   
         6   

K2.2  
     
   Benefit Payable On Account of Death            

(A)  
     
   Death Benefit         In the
event a pension death benefit is payable under the terms of the ExxonMobil Pension Plan ( Pension Plan ) on account of the death of a participant, a death benefit shall be payable under this Plan equal to the lump-sum value of the benefit
that would have been payable under section K2.1 above to the participant if the participant had not died but had terminated employment and had elected to commence his or her benefit as of the date of death.   

(B)  
     
   Deferred Annuity Death Benefit         In the event a  Career Annuity subject to deferred commencement that commences by reason of death  is payable under the terms of the Pension Plan on account of the death of a participant, a
similar benefit shall be payable under this Plan based on the benefit that would have been payable under section K2.1 above to the participant if the participant had not died.   

(C)  
     
   Calculation Methodology      
  The exact nature and amounts of any benefit payable under paragraph (A) or (B) shall be determined under a methodology
established from time to time by the Plan Administrator.   

(D)  
     
   Excluded Benefits      
  Specifically excluded from coverage and entitlement under this Plan are:   

(1)  
     
  the legally mandated Qualified Joint and Survivor Annuity, and     

(2)  
     
  the right to elect a Surviving Spouse Annuity        as such are established for married participants in the Pension Plan.         
  K3.  Beneficiaries          

K3.1  
     
   Designation of Beneficiaries      

A person entitled to receive benefits under this Plan may name one or more designated beneficiaries to receive the benefits payable under this Plan under section K2.2
above in the event of the person s death in accordance with such procedures as the Plan Administrator may establish. Spousal consent to any designation in not required.           

K3.2  
     
   Default Beneficiaries            

(A)  
     
   In General         If no
specific designation is in effect, the deceased s beneficiary is the person or persons in the first of the following classes of successive beneficiaries living at the time of death of the deceased:   
 
         7   

(2)  
     
  children who survive the participant or who die before the participant leaving children of their own who survive the participant;     

(4)  
     
  brothers and sisters who survive the participant or who die before the participant leaving children of their own who survive the participant.     
  If there are no members of any class of such beneficiaries, payment is made to the deceased s executors or administrators.

(B)  
     
   Allocation among Default Beneficiaries         If the same class of beneficiaries under paragraph (A) above contains two or more persons, they share equally, with further subdivision of such equal shares as next provided. In class (2), where a
child dies before the participant leaving children who survive the participant, such child s share shall be subdivided equally among those children. In class (4), where a brother or sister dies before the participant leaving children who
survive the participant, such brother or sister s share shall be subdivided equally among those children.   

(C)  
     
   Definitions         For purposes
of this section K3.2,  child  means a person s son or daughter by legitimate blood relationship or legal adoption;  parent  means a person s father or mother by legitimate blood relationship or legal adoption;
 brother  or  sister  means another child of either or both of one s parents.         
  K4.  Payment of Benefits          

K4.1  
     
   Commencement of Benefits            

(A)  
     
   In General         Payments
under this Plan occur at the same time as payments under the ExxonMobil Supplemental Pension Plan commence.   

(B)  
     
   Reduction for Early Commencement         If payments under this Plan commence prior to the month in which the person reaches age 65, they are reduced by applying the early commencement factors for retirees set forth in the Pension Plan for a
normal maturity age of 65. For all actuarial purposes, this monthly amount paid as a five-year certain life annuity is deemed the normal form amount.         

Payments under this Plan shall be made in the form of a lump sum that is the actuarial equivalent of the five-year-certain and life annuity in which the normal form of
benefit is expressed. For this purpose, actuarial equivalency shall be determined by the Plan Administrator using the factors used for comparable determinations under the Pension Plan.     
         8   

K5.  Miscellaneous    

K5.1  
     
   Administration of Plan      

The Plan Administrator shall be the Manager, Compensation, Benefit Plans and Policies, Human Resources Department, ExxonMobil Corporation. The Plan Administrator shall
have the right and authority to conclusively interpret this Plan for all purposes, including the determination of any person s eligibility for benefits hereunder and the resolution of any and all appeals relating to claims by participants or
beneficiaries, with any such interpretation being conclusive for all participants and beneficiaries.           

Payments provided under this Plan shall be considered general obligations of the Corporation.           

K5.3  
     
   Assignment or Alienation      

Payments provided under this Plan may not be assigned or otherwise alienated or pledged.           

K5.4  
     
   Amendment or Termination      

The Corporation reserves the right to amend or terminate this Plan, in whole or in part, so long as the amendment does not deprive any person of the non-forfeitable
right to benefits specifically granted in this Plan.     
         9   

</EX-10.(III) (C.2)>

<EX-10.(III) (C.3)>
 5
 d257530dex10iiic3.htm
 EXXONMOBIL ADDITONAL PAYMENTS PLAN

ExxonMobil Additonal Payments Plan 

EXHIBIT 10(iii)(c.3)    
   EXXONMOBIL ADDITIONAL PAYMENTS PLAN          
  1.  Purpose          
  The purpose of this Plan is to provide additional payments from the general assets of Exxon Mobil Corporation (the  Corporation ) to certain
persons. The benefits payable under this Plan consist of two types of pension benefits and a disability benefit. The first pension benefit is a benefit based upon the person s final average incentive compensation ( Incentive Pension
Benefit ). The second pension benefit restores certain benefits that are accrued under a pension plan sponsored by a non-U.S. affiliate of the Corporation but which are not paid ( Overseas Makeup Benefit ). The disability benefit is
based on incentive compensation and is paid in the event of a long-term disability ( Disability Benefit ).         
  2.  Incentive Pension Benefits          
    A person is
eligible to receive Incentive Pension Benefits only if the person satisfies at either of the following requirements:   

(A)  
     
  the person becomes a retiree within the meaning of the ExxonMobil Common Provisions ( retiree  or     

(B)  
     
  in the case of an individual who after terminating employment from the Corporation or any of its affiliates continues employment with Infineum USA Inc. or one of its
affiliates (collectively,  Infineum ), becomes a qualified plans retiree within the meaning of the ExxonMobil Common Provisions ( qualified plans retiree ).           

(A)  
     
   In General         Except as
provided in section 2.3 below with respect to former Mobil employees, as defined in the ExxonMobil Common Provisions ( Former Mobil Employees ), the amount of a person s Incentive Pension Benefit is determined by multiplying 1.6% of
the person s final average incentive compensation by the person s years of pensionable service as determined under the ExxonMobil Pension Plan (reduced, but not below zero, by the equivalent amount, if any, determined with respect to the
person under the ExxonMobil Key Employee Additional Payments Plan), and dividing the amount so derived by twelve. The amount so derived is expressed in the form of a monthly five-year certain and life annuity for the life of the person commencing at
the person s age 65 ( Normal Retirement Age ).   

(B)  
     
   Final Average Incentive Compensation         For the purposes of paragraph (A) above, a person s  final average incentive compensation  shall be determined in accordance with this paragraph (B).   
         1   

(1)  
     
   Calculation            

(a)  
   In General         If a
person s eligibility for Incentive Pension Benefits arises from section 2.1(A) above, the person s final average incentive compensation is the average of the person s three highest annual bonus awards (including awards of zero, if
any) under the Corporation s Incentive Programs awarded on any of the five most recent annual award dates immediately preceding the person s termination of employment.   

(b)  
   Corporate Acquisitions      
  For purposes of applying paragraph (A) above to a person who commences employment with the Corporation or one of its affiliates in
connection with a corporate acquisition, incentive compensation paid by the person s former employer that is the equivalent of bonus awards payable under the Corporation s Incentive Program may be taken into account as determined by the
management of the Corporation in its sole discretion. Management shall have the discretion to exclude any and all prior employer compensation for purposes of this paragraph (b).   

(2)  
     
   Infineum Participants      
  If a person s eligibility for Incentive Pension Benefits arises from Section 2.1(B) above, the person s final average
incentive compensation is the sum of the three highest annual bonus awards under the Corporation s Incentive Programs, if any, during the five-year period immediately prior to the person s termination of employment from Infineum, divided
by three.         

(3)  
     
   Annual Bonus Award      

(a)  
   Items Used in Calculation      
  For purposes of this paragraph (B), in determining the amount of a person s annual bonus award, only awards granted under the
short-term incentive part of the Incentive Programs as cash and bonus units are considered.   

(b)  
   Item Excluded From Calculation         For purposes of this paragraph (B), in determining the amount of a person s annual bonus award, an award to a person characterized by the granting authority as a special one-time bonus is
disregarded, unless deemed specifically includable by the granting authority at the time of grant.   

(c)  
   Calculation of Annual Bonus Award         If an annual bonus award is granted as bonus units, the maximum settlement value obtainable at the time of the grant shall be used in calculating the value of the award.   
         2   

2.3  
     
   Benefit Formula for Former Mobil Employee            

(A)  
     
   In General         Incentive
Pension Benefits for Former Mobil Employees who retire with eligibility for Incentive Pension Benefits under section 2.1 above shall be determined under this section 2.3. The amount of a person s Incentive Pension Benefit calculated under this
section 2.3 is the smaller of         

(1)  
     
  the amount of the person s Incentive Pension Benefit otherwise determined under section 2.2 above based on all of the person s pensionable service under the
ExxonMobil Pension Plan, or     

(2)  
     
  the amount determined by first calculating the person s Overall Benefit Objective under paragraph (B) below, then subtracting therefrom the person s
Qualified Benefit Objective calculated under paragraph (C) below and the person s nonqualified PSSP benefit, if any, determined under paragraph (D) below.     
  The resulting amount is expressed as a monthly five-year certain and life annuity for the life of the person commencing at the
person s Normal Retirement Age.   

(B)  
     
   Overall Benefit Objective            

(1)  
     
   In General         A
person s Overall Benefit Objective is the greater of         

(a)  
  the sum of the person s Mobil Benefit described in paragraph (2) below and the person s Post-Mobil Benefit described in paragraph (3) below, or

(b)  
  the person s Overall ExxonMobil Benefit described in paragraph (4) below.     

(2)  
     
   Mobil Benefit         A
person s Mobil Benefit is the person s accrued benefit under the Retirement Plan of Mobil Oil Corporation and the Supplemental Pension and Annuity Program of Mobil Oil Corporation up through the date the person becomes a participant in the
ExxonMobil Pension Plan, based on service and compensation up through the date the person becomes a participant in the ExxonMobil Pension Plan.   

(3)  
     
   Post-Mobil Benefit          A
person s Post-Mobil Benefit is the person s accrued benefit described in paragraph (4) below based only on the person s pensionable service after the person becomes a participant in the ExxonMobil Pension Plan.   

(4)  
     
   Overall ExxonMobil Benefit         A person s Overall ExxonMobil Benefit is the sum of         

(a)  
  the person s accrued benefit under the ExxonMobil Pension Plan (including the Pre-Social Security Pension benefit) without any application of the limits under Code
section 415 or 401(a)(17), and     

(b)  
  the amount of the person s Incentive Pension Benefit otherwise determined under section 2.2 above, based on all of the person s pensionable service under the
ExxonMobil Pension Plan.     
         3   

(5)  
     
   Rules for Calculation      
  In calculating a person s Mobil Benefit, Post-Mobil Benefit and Overall ExxonMobil Benefit, the Plan administrator shall apply rules
similar to those contained in section 2.7 of the ExxonMobil Pension Plan for purposes of calculating the person s frozen Mobil benefit, post-Mobil benefit, and ExxonMobil benefit, respectively.   

(C)  
     
   Qualified Benefit Objective         A person s Qualified Benefit Objective is the person s accrued benefit under the ExxonMobil Pension Plan, including the person s Pre-Social Security Pension.   

(D)  
     
   Nonqualified PSSP Benefit      
  A person s Nonqualified PSSP Benefit is the excess, if any, of   

(1)  
     
  the amount of the person s Pre-Social Security Pension benefit calculated in connection with the person s Overall Benefit Objective under paragraph
(B) above, over     

(2)  
     
  the amount of the person s Pre-Social Security Pension benefit or the equivalent thereof under Part 2 of the ExxonMobil Pension Plan calculated in connection with
the person s Qualified Benefit Objective under paragraph (C) above.     

(E)  
     
   Plan Administrator Discretion         The procedure for calculating the Incentive Pension Benefit for former Mobil employees under this section 2.3, including the calculation of the benefit comparisons, offsets and reductions, shall be
determined in the sole and exclusive discretion of the Plan Administrator. To the extent applicable, the Plan Administrator shall follow the procedures established under the ExxonMobil Pension Plan for performing similar benefit calculations.

2.4  
     
   Offset for Similar Benefits         If a participant under this Plan is also entitled to payments comparable to the Incentive Pension Benefit for any portion of the same years of pensionable service under a plan of a service-oriented
employer, as defined in the ExxonMobil Common Provisions, other than the Corporation, the amount of the Incentive Pension Benefit is reduced by the respective amount of such comparable payments. In any given case, the Plan Administrator may
determine the precise amount of this offset and if a conversion of currency computation is required, may follow the process established under the ExxonMobil Pension Plan.   

2.5  
     
   Lapse of Incentive Pension Benefit         The portion of any Incentive Pension Benefit deriving from a provisionally granted bonus that is subsequently annulled lapses as of the date of such annulment.   
         4   

3.  Overseas Makeup Benefit          
    A person is
eligible to receive an Overseas Makeup Benefit if the following conditions are met as determined by the Plan Administrator:         

(A)  
     
  the person accrues a benefit under a pension plan ( non-U.S. plan ) sponsored by a non-U.S. affiliate of the Corporation;     

(B)  
     
  the person terminates active participation in the non-U.S. plan and simultaneously becomes a participant in the ExxonMobil Pension Plan or predecessor plan;

(C)  
     
  as a result of terminating active participant status under the non-U.S. plan, the person loses eligibility for all or a portion of the benefit under the non-U.S. plan
accrued prior to termination; and     

(D)  
     
  the amount of the lost benefit is not provided under the terms of the ExxonMobil Pension Plan, the ExxonMobil Supplemental Pension Plan, or otherwise under this Plan.
          
    The
amount of the Overseas Makeup Benefit is the amount, expressed as a monthly benefit in the form of a five-year certain and life annuity, that is the actuarial equivalent of the lost benefit under the non-U.S. plan. Such amount shall be conclusively
determined by the Plan Administrator.            4.
 Payment of Pension Benefits          

(A)  
     
   In General         Except as
provided under paragraph (B) below, payment of a person s Incentive Pension Benefit and, if applicable, Overseas Makeup Benefit shall occur as soon as practicable following the later to occur of the following:   

(1)  
     
  The person s retirement from ExxonMobil; or     

(2)  
     
  In the case of a person who, immediately prior to his or her retirement, has a Classification Level of 37 or above ( Key Employee ), the six-month anniversary
of the person s retirement.     

(B)  
     
   Exception for Disability Retirees         In the case of a person who retires with eligibility for Disability Benefits under article 6 below prior to the first of the month in which the person attains age 55, payment of such benefit shall occur
as of the first of the month in which the person attains age 55, or as soon as practicable thereafter.         

4.2  
     
   Reduction for Early Commencement         If a payment under section 4.1 above occurs prior to the month in which the person reaches Normal Retirement Age, it is reduced by applying the early commencement factors specified under the ExxonMobil
Pension Plan for a benefit commencing at the person s then age.   
         5   

Payment
of a person s Incentive Pension Benefit or Overseas Makeup Benefit shall be made in a lump sum that is the actuarial equivalent of the five-year-certain and life annuity. For this purpose, actuarial equivalence shall be determined by the Plan
Administrator using the factors and procedures that are used for the calculation of the lump-sum payment option under the ExxonMobil Pension Plan.         

4.4  
     
   Adjustment for Key Employees         If payment of a Key Employee s Incentive Pension Benefit and/or Overseas Makeup Benefit is delayed for six months following retirement because of the requirement set out in section 4.1(A)(2) above,
then instead of the lump-sum benefit calculated under section 4.3 above, the person shall receive a lump-sum benefit equal to the greater of the following:         

(A)  
     
  The lump-sum payment that would otherwise have been calculated for the person under section 4.3 above as if he were not a Key Employee, based on the payment date that
would have applied to the individual if he were not a Key employee and on the actuarial factors applicable as of such date under the ExxonMobil Pension Plan, plus interest for the period of delayed payment; or     

(B)  
     
  A lump-sum that is the actuarial equivalent of the person s five-year-certain and life annuity calculated as of the delayed payment date and using the actuarial
factors applicable as of the six-month anniversary of the person s retirement date.        Interest shall be
credited under paragraph (A) above, at a rate equal to the Citibank prime lending rate in effect on the date the person separates from employment.         
  5.  Death Benefit          
    If a person
dies who, at the time of his death,         

(A)  
     
  is an active employee with 15 or more years of Benefit Plan Service, as determined under the ExxonMobil Common Provisions, or     

(B)  
     
  had retired with eligibility for an Incentive Pension Benefit and/or a Overseas Makeup Benefit and had not received such benefit, a lump-sum death benefit shall be
payable to the person s beneficiary (as determined under section 5.2 below). The death benefit payable to the person s beneficiary shall be the lump-sum equivalent value of the amount of the Pension Benefit and Overseas Makeup Benefit to
which the person was or would have been entitled. For this purpose, equivalent value shall be determined by the Plan Administrator using the factors and procedures that are used for the calculation of similar benefits under the ExxonMobil Pension
Plan.     
         6   

5.2  
     
   Designation of Beneficiaries            

(A)  
     
   In General         A person may
name one or more designated beneficiaries to receive payment of the death benefits payable under section 5.1 above in the event of the person s death. Beneficiary designations shall be made in accordance with such procedures as the Plan
Administrator may establish. Spousal consent to any such designation is not required.   

(B)  
     
   Default Beneficiaries      

(1)  
     
   In General         If no
specific designation is in effect, the deceased s beneficiary is the person or persons in the first of the following classes of successive beneficiaries living at the time of death of the deceased:   

(a)  
  spouse;     

(b)  
  children who survive the deceased or who die before the deceased leaving children of their own who survive the deceased;     

(c)  
  parents;     

(d)  
  brothers and sisters who survive the deceased or who die before the deceased leaving children of their own who survive the deceased.     
  If there are no members of any class of such beneficiaries, payment is made to the deceased s executors or administrators.

(2)  
     
   Allocation Among Default Beneficiaries         If the same class of beneficiaries under paragraph (1) above contains two or more persons, they share equally, with further subdivision of such equal shares as next provided. In class (b), where a
child dies before the deceased leaving children who survive the deceased, such child s share is subdivided equally among those children. In class (d), where a brother or sister dies before the deceased leaving children who survive the deceased,
such brother or sister s share is subdivided equally among those children.   

(3)  
     
   Definitions         For
purposes of this section 5.4,  child  means a person s son or daughter by legitimate blood relationship or legal adoption;  parent  means a person s father or mother by legitimate blood relationship or legal adoption;
 brother  or  sister  means another child of either or both of one s parents.   
         7   

6.  Disability Benefit          

6.1  
     
   Nature of Disability Benefits         The benefits provided under this article 6 ( Disability Benefits ) are in the nature of long-term disability benefits, payable on account of and for the duration of a person s incapacity on
account of disability. These Disability Benefits are intended to qualify as employee welfare benefits under ERISA and as  disability pay  under section 409A of the Internal Revenue Code and its supporting regulations, thereby being exempt
from the scope and application of section 409A.         

6.2  
     
   Payment of Disability Benefit         If a person who becomes a retiree also becomes entitled to long-term disability benefits under the ExxonMobil Disability Plan, the person shall receive monthly Disability Benefits under this Plan. Such
Disability Benefits shall commence at the time the person commences long-term disability benefits under the ExxonMobil Disability Plan and shall continue as long as entitlement to long-term disability or transition benefits under such plan
continues.         

(A)  
     
   In General         The amount of
each monthly Disability Benefit payable to a person is determined by dividing one-half of the person s final average incentive compensation, determined under section 2.2(B) above, by 12 and deducting therefrom the offset described in paragraph
(B) below.         

(B)  
     
   Offset         Commencing with
the month in which a person s Incentive Pension Benefit is paid, the amount of the person s monthly Disability Benefit shall be reduced by the monthly amount of the person s Incentive Pension Benefit and/or Overseas Makeup Benefit
(expressed as a five-year-certain and life annuity). In the case of a Key Employee, the offset provided under this paragraph (B) shall be applied beginning with the month his or her Incentive Pension Benefit would have been paid if he or she
were not a Key Employee.         

6.4  
     
   Offset for Similar Benefit      
  If a person receiving Disability Benefits hereunder is also entitled to comparable payments under a plan of a service-oriented employer
(as defined in the ExxonMobil Common Provisions) other than the Corporation under circumstances where the Plan Administrator determines that such benefits are duplicative of the Disability Benefits payable hereunder, then such Disability Benefits
shall be reduced by the amount of such comparable payment. In any given case, the Plan Administrator may determine the precise amount of this offset and if a conversion of currency computation is required, may follow the process established under
the ExxonMobil Pension Plan.   
         8   

6.5  
     
   Disability Death Benefit            

(A)  
     
   Death During Employment      
  If a person dies as an active employee with 15 or more years of Benefit Plan Service, as determined under the ExxonMobil Common
Provisions, then the person s beneficiary (as determined under section 5.2 above) shall receive a disability death benefit equal to the present value of 60 monthly installments of the person s Disability Benefit, calculated as if the
person had become eligible for Disability Benefit payments on the day prior to death. For purposes of this paragraph (A), the value of the person s Disability Benefit installments shall be determined by applying the offset under section 6.3(B)
above as if the person s Incentive Pension Benefit and/or Overseas Makeup Benefit were payable at the time of death.         

(B)  
     
   Death After Commencement of Disability Retirement Payments         If a person dies while receiving Disability Benefits under this article 6 but before the receipt of 60 monthly installments, the person s beneficiary (as determined under section 5.2 above) shall
receive the lump-sum equivalent value of the remaining 60 monthly installments. If at the time of death the person s Incentive Pension Benefit had not been paid, then the value of the person s remaining Disability Benefit installments
shall be determined by applying the offset under section 6.3(B) above as if the person s Incentive Pension Benefit and/or Overseas Makeup Benefit were paid at the time of death.            7.  Miscellaneous          

    The
Plan Administrator shall be the Manager, Compensation, Benefit Plans and Policies, Human Resources Department, Exxon Mobil Corporation. The Plan Administrator shall have the right and authority to conclusively interpret this Plan for all purposes,
including the determination of any person s eligibility for benefits hereunder and the resolution of any and all appeals relating to claims by participants or beneficiaries, with any such interpretation being conclusive for all participants and
beneficiaries.         
 
  Payments provided under this Plan are considered general obligations of the Corporation.   

7.3  
     
   Assignment or Alienation      
  Except as provided in section 7.5 below, payments provided under this Plan may not be assigned or otherwise alienated or pledged.
  
         9   

7.4  
     
   Amendment or Termination      
  The Corporation reserves the right to amend or terminate this Plan, in whole or in part, including the right at any time to reduce or
eliminate any accrued benefits hereunder and to alter or amend the benefit formula set out herein.         

7.5  
     
   Forfeiture Of Benefits      
  No person shall be entitled to receive payments under this Plan, and any payments received under this Plan shall be forfeited and
returned, if it is determined by the Corporation in its sole discretion, acting through its chief executive or such person or committee as the chief executive may designate, that a person otherwise entitled to a payment under this Plan or who has
commenced receiving payments under this Plan:   

(A)  
     
  engaged in gross misconduct harmful to the Corporation,     

(B)  
     
  committed a criminal violation harmful to the Corporation,     

(C)  
     
  had concealed actions described in (A) or (B) above which would have brought about termination from employment thereby making the person ineligible for
benefits under this Plan,     

(D)  
     
  separated from service prior to attaining Normal Retirement Age without having received from the Corporation or its delegatee prior written approval for such
termination, given in the sole discretion of the Corporation or its delegatee and in the context of recognition that benefits under this Plan would not be forfeited upon such termination, or     

(E)  
     
  had been terminated for cause.     
         10   

</EX-10.(III) (C.3)>

<EX-10.(III) (D)>
 6
 d257530dex10iiid.htm
 EXXONMOBIL EXECUTIVE LIFE INSURANCE AND DEATH BENEFIT PLAN

ExxonMobil Executive Life Insurance and Death Benefit Plan 

EXHIBIT 10(iii)(d)    
         EXXONMOBIL EXECUTIVE LIFE INSURANCE AND    
   DEATH BENEFIT PLAN          
  1.      Participation          
    Each
 covered executive  is a  participant  in this Plan.         

(A)  
     
   In General         Except as
provided in paragraph (B) below, each person who becomes a  retiree  on or after the  effective date , and who is a  covered executive  immediately prior to becoming a  retiree  is a  participant  in this Plan. In
addition, each  grandfathered retiree  is a  participant  in the Plan.   

(B)  
     
   Exception         A
 retiree  will cease to be a  participant  during the time the  retiree  is a  suspended retiree .         

1.3  
     
   Cessation of Participant Status      

(A)  
     
   Termination of Employment      

(1)  
     
   In General         Except as
provided in paragraphs (2) through (4) below, a  covered executive  will cease to be a  participant  31 days after the  covered executive  terminates employment without becoming a  retiree .   

(2)  
     
   Exception for Long Term Disability         A  covered executive  who terminates employment with eligibility for long-term disability benefits under the ExxonMobil Disability Plan, will cease to be a  participant  at the earlier of

(a)  
     
  one year after terminating employment, or     

(b)  
     
  the date the person is no longer eligible for long-term disability benefits on account of ceasing to be disabled.     

(3)  
     
   Exception for Coverage Provided Through Death Benefit         If, at the time a  covered executive  terminates employment he or she has elected to receive executive life coverage in the form of a death benefit, the  covered executive  will cease to be a
 participant  on the date of such termination of employment.   

(4)  
     
   Exception for Transition Severance Terminees      

(a)  
     
   In General         A  covered
executive  who terminates employment without becoming a  retiree  shall continue to be a  participant  for a period of one year from the date of such termination of employment, but only if the person is eligible for a benefit under the
Exxon Transition Severance Plan, or if the Corporation, acting through its management, determines that the  covered executive  is otherwise eligible for such continued participation.   
         1   

(b)  
     
   Termination of Provision      
  This paragraph (4) shall not apply to any  covered executive  who terminates employment after August 31, 2000.   

(B)  
     
   Suspended Retirees         A
 retiree  or  grandfathered retiree  will cease to be a  participant  during the time the person is a  suspended retiree .         

2.1  
     
   When and How Coverage is Provided      

(A)  
     
   In General      

(1)  
     
   Executive Life Coverage      
  Executive life coverage is automatically provided to all  participants  other than  grandfathered retirees .   

(2)  
     
   Supplemental Group Life Coverage         Supplemental group life coverage is automatically provided to all  participants  who are  grandfathered retirees .   

(B)  
     
   Life Insurance or Death Benefit Option      

(1)  
     
   In General         Both
executive life coverage and supplemental group life coverage is automatically provided under the Plan as life insurance unless a  participant  elects to receive coverage in the form of a death benefit.   
 
   Participants  may, at any time, elect to receive executive life or supplemental group life coverage, whichever is applicable, as a
death benefit, and may revoke any such election. An election or revocation under this paragraph (2) shall be made in accordance with procedures established by the  administrator .   

(3)  
     
   When Election is Effective      

(a)  
   Death Benefit         An
election under paragraph (2) above to receive executive life or supplemental group life coverage as a death benefit shall become effective on the first of the month following the receipt of such election by the  administrator .   

(b)  
   Revocation of Election      
  A  participant s  revocation of a death benefit election in favor of receiving executive life or supplemental group life
coverage as life insurance becomes effective on the first of the month following the date the  administrator  receives notification from the  insurer  that the  insurer  has, in its discretion, approved evidence of insurability
submitted by the  participant .   
         2   

(4)  
     
   Reinstatement of Coverage      
  If a  participant s  executive life or supplemental group life coverage is reinstated after a period in which the
 participant  was ineligible for coverage under section 1.3(B) above on account of becoming a  suspended retiree , such coverage shall be reinstated under the option (i.e., life insurance or a death benefit) in force at the time coverage
was lost.   

(C)  
     
   Termination of Coverage      
  Executive life or supplemental group life coverage terminates for an individual on the date the individual ceases to be a
 participant .         

(A)  
     
   Executive Life Coverage      

(1)  
     
   In General         Except as
provided in paragraph (2) below, the amount of executive life coverage in effect for a  participant  is equal to the applicable percentage determined under the following chart multiplied by the  participant s  annual base pay:
      
          For this purpose, a
 participant  attains a particular age as of the first day of the month in which the person will turn such age. In addition, a  covered executive s  annual base pay is the base pay in effect at the time coverage is determined, and a
 retiree s  base pay is the base pay in effect for the person immediately before the person became a  retiree .   

(2)  
     
   Transition Severance Terminees         The amount of executive life coverage in effect for a person who is a  participant  solely on account of section 1.3(A)(4) above relating to transition severance terminees is 200% of the
person s annual base pay in effect immediately before the person s termination of employment.   

(B)  
     
   Supplemental Group Life Coverage         Supplemental Group Life Coverage is provided   

(1)  
     
  during retirement to all  grandfathered retirees , and     

(2)  
     
  during employment to those persons who become  grandfathered retirees  after the  effective date .     
  The amount of supplemental group life coverage in effect for a  grandfathered retiree  is equal to the amount of coverage in effect
for the person under the provisions of the Supplemental Group Life Insurance Plan or Supplemental Group Death Benefit Plan (as such plans existed on   
         3   

December 31, 1999) as of the later of December 31, 1999 or the date the person
retires. The amount of supplemental group life coverage in effect during employment for a person who becomes a  grandfathered retiree  after the  effective date  is the amount of coverage to which they are entitled under the terms of the
Supplemental Group Life Insurance Plan or Supplemental Group Death Benefit Plan (as such plans existed on December 31, 1999).         
  3.      Payment of Benefit    

3.1  
     
   Conditions for Payment of Benefit         If a  participant  dies while executive life or supplemental group life coverage for that  participant  is in effect, then the amount of coverage then in effect for the  participant 
becomes payable; provided, that proof of death satisfactory to the  insurer  must be provided before any benefit becomes payable as life insurance.         
    A
benefit payable under Section 3.1 above upon a  participant s  death shall be paid in a lump sum.         

(A)  
     
   Life Insurance         Executive
life and supplemental group life coverage in the form of life insurance shall be provided through one or more policies of insurance issued by an  insurer  selected by the  Corporation , and any executive life or supplemental group life
benefit payable as insurance shall be paid pursuant to such policy or policies.   

(B)  
     
   Death Benefit         Any
executive life or supplemental group life benefit payable as a death benefit shall be paid from the general assets of the  Corporation .         
    A benefit
payable under Section 3.1 above upon a  participant s  death shall be paid as follows:   

(A)  
     
  If a beneficiary designation is in effect at the time of the  participant s  death, the benefit shall be paid in accordance with such designation.

(B)  
     
  If no beneficiary designation is in effect, the benefit shall be paid to the first of the following groups that has at least one member that survives the
 participant :     

(1)  
     
  The  participant s  spouse.     

(2)  
     
  The  participant s  children. In this event, the benefit will be divided equally among the children who survive the  participant  as well as the children
who die before the  participant  leaving children of their own who survive the  participant . In the case of a  participant s  child who dies before the  participant  leaving children of his or her own who survive the
 participant , such child s share shall be divided equally among his or her surviving children.     
         4   

(3)  
     
  The  participant s  parents. In this event, the benefit will be divided equally among the parents if they both survive the  participant .

(4)  
     
  The  participant s  brothers and sisters. In this event, the benefit will be divided equally among the brothers and sisters who survive the  participant 
as well as the brothers and sisters who die before the  participant  leaving children of their own who survive the  participant . In the case of a brother or sister who dies before the  participant  leaving children of his or her own
who survive the  participant , such brother or sister s share shall be divided equally among his or her surviving children.     

(5)  
     
  The  participant s  executors or administrators.        For purposes of this Paragraph (B), a spouse of a  participant  shall include only someone who is the legal spouse of the  participant , and a child, parent, brother, or sister of a
 participant  shall include only someone who is a legitimate blood relative of the  participant  or whose relationship with the  participant  is established by virtue of a legal adoption.   
        4.      Designation of Beneficiary 
        
    A
 participant  may designate one or more beneficiaries to receive the payment of benefits upon the death of the  participant , or may at any time change or cancel a previously made beneficiary designation.   

4.2  
     
   Forms and Submission         Any
beneficiary designation or change or cancellation thereof shall be made on such forms and in such manner as is satisfactory to the  insurer . No beneficiary designation or change or cancellation thereof shall become effective until received by
the  insurer  or its designated agent.         

4.3  
     
   Designation Made Under Prior Plans         Any beneficiary designation made by a  participant  under the Supplemental Group Life Insurance Plan or Supplemental Death Benefit Plan that remains in effect on December 31, 1999, shall
continue to be valid under this Plan on and after the  effective date  until and unless properly superceded.         
  5.      Miscellaneous          
    The funding
for executive life and supplemental group life coverage, including the funding of premiums under any life insurance policy issued in connection with such coverage, shall be paid for by the  Corporation ; no  participant  contributions will
be required or permitted.   
         5   

5.2  
     
   Assignment of Insurance            

(A)  
     
   Assignment         A
 participant  may assign to another owner the  participant s  interest in his or her executive life or supplemental group life coverage provided in the form of life insurance. Such assignment shall be made on such forms and in such
manner as is acceptable to the  administrator  and the  insurer .   

(B)  
     
   Effect of Assignment      

(1)  
     
   In General         When an
assignment of a  participant s  coverage is in effect as described in paragraph (A) above, then, except as provided in paragraph (2) below, the  participant s  assignee shall have the right to take all actions under the
terms of this Plan with respect to such coverage that the  participant  would otherwise have the right to take, including, without limitation, the right to designate a beneficiary.   

(2)  
     
   Exception         An assignee
shall not have the right under this Plan to elect to receive executive life or supplemental group life coverage as a death benefit under section 2.1(B)(2) above or to revoke an already existing election.   

(C)  
     
   Assignment Under Prior Plan         Any assignment of coverage made by a  participant  under the Supplemental Group Life Insurance Plan shall continue to be valid under this Plan with respect to executive life and supplemental group
life coverage.         

5.3  
     
   Amendment and Termination      
  The  Corporation  at any time, by action of any duly authorized officer, may amend or terminate this Plan in whole or in part.

5.4  
     
   Responsibilities and Authority of Administrator         The  administrator  shall fulfill all duties and responsibilities of a  plan administrator  required by the Employee Retirement Income Security Act of 1974, as amended. The
 administrator  shall have the authority to control and manage the operation and administration of this Plan, including, without limitation:         

(A)  
     
  discretionary and final authority to determine eligibility and to administer this Plan in its application to each participant and beneficiary; and

(B)  
     
  discretionary and final authority to interpret this Plan, in whole or in part, including but not limited to, exercising such authority in conducting a full and fair
review, with such interpretation being conclusive for all participants and beneficiaries under this Plan.     
         6   

5.5  
     
   Claim Appeal Process            

(A)  
     
   Submission of Appeal         In
the event a claim for benefits is denied, the claimant has the right to appeal to the  administrator . A written request to review a denied claim must be received by the  administrator  within 90 days after the claim denial. The request
may state the reasons the claimant believes he or she is entitled to Plan benefits, and may be accompanied by supporting information and documentation for the  administrator s  consideration.   

(B)  
     
   Decision         The
 administrator  shall decide appeals in accordance with the  administrator s  fiduciary authority set out in section 5.4 above. Appeal decisions will be made within 60 days of the receipt of the claim by the  administrator 
unless special circumstances warrant an extension of time. If an extension of time is required, the  administrator  will notify the claimant of the extension. In all cases, the decision will be made no later than 120 days after the receipt of
the claim by the  administrator . The appeal decision shall be in writing, specify the reasons for the decision, and refer to the relevant Plan provision(s) on which the decision is based.   

The following terms shall have the following meanings ascribed to them:   

(A)  
     
   Administrator  means the Manager, Compensation and Executive Plans, Human Resources Department, Exxon Mobil Corporation.     

(B)  
     
   Corporation  means Exxon Mobil Corporation.     

(C)  
     
   Covered Employee  has the meaning set out in the ExxonMobil Benefit Plans Common Provisions.     

(D)  
     
   Covered Executive  means a  covered employee  who has a classification level of 35 or higher; provided, however, that the group of  covered
executives  shall be frozen as of September 30, 2007, and no individual shall become a  covered executive  on or after October 1, 2007.     

(F)  
     
   Grandfathered retiree  means a person who     

(1)  
     
  became a  retiree  prior to the  effective date , and was covered under the Supplemental Group Life Insurance Plan or Supplemental Death Benefit Plan
immediately prior to the  effective date , or who     

(2)  
     
  becomes a  retiree  after the  effective date  after having been given the opportunity to elect and having elected continued coverage under the Supplemental
Group Life Insurance Plan or Supplemental Death Benefit Plan.     

(G)  
     
   Insurer  means the insurance company that is the issuer of the policy of insurance described in section 3.3(A) above.     

(H)  
     
   Participant  means a  covered executive ,  retiree , or  grandfathered retiree , as the context requires.     

(I)  
     
   Retiree      
         7   

(1)  
     
   In General      
   Retiree  has the meaning set out in the ExxonMobil Benefit Plans Common Provisions.   

(2)  
     
   Transition Severance Cases            

(a)  
     
   Treatment as Covered Annuitant         Solely for purposes of this Plan, a person who is described in paragraph (b) below shall be treated as if he or she were a  retiree .         

(b)  
     
   Eligibility            
  A person is described in this paragraph (b) if the person   

(i)  
  terminates employment as a  covered executive ;     

(ii)  
  is at least 50 years old by the end of the month in which the termination of employment occurs;     

(iii)  
  has at least 10 years of benefit plan service (as defined in the ExxonMobil Benefit Plans Common Provisions) at the time of the termination of employment; and

(iv)  
  upon termination of employment receives a benefit under the Exxon Transition Severance Plan.           

(c)  
     
   Termination of Provision      
  This paragraph (2) shall not apply to any person who fails to meet the eligibility requirements set out in paragraph (b) above
on or before August 31, 2000.         

(J)  
     
   Suspended retiree      

(1)  
     
   In General      
   Suspended Retiree  means a person who becomes a  retiree  by virtue of being incapacitated within the meaning of the
ExxonMobil Disability Plan and commences long-term disability benefits under such Plan, but whose benefits under such Plan thereafter cease by virtue of   

(a)  
     
  the person no longer being incapacitated, or     

(b)  
     
  the person s failure to report non-rehabilitative employment.     
     
    A person remains
a  suspended retiree  until the earlier of (1) the date the person attains age 55, or (2) the date the person commences his or her benefit or receives a lump-sum settlement under the ExxonMobil Pension Plan, at which time the person
is again considered a  retiree .   
         8   

</EX-10.(III) (D)>

<EX-10.(III) (G.3)>
 7
 d257530dex10iiig3.htm
 1984 MOBIL COMPENSATION MANAGEMENT RETENTION PLAN

1984 Mobil Compensation Management Retention Plan 

EXHIBIT 10(iii)(g.3)              1984 Mobil Corporation        MANAGEMENT RETENTION PLAN        Restated as of September 27, 2007
             Article I    Purpose of the Plan
            The Mobil Management Retention Plan provides
a method whereby principal executive Employees who are meeting superior standards of performance and whose continued employment is considered key to the growth and success of Mobil Corporation and its Affiliated Corporations will be afforded special
individual financial incentives to maintain that level of performance and continue employment until normal or agreed early retirement date.         
   Article II    Definitions          
  2.1  Affiliated Corporation  means any stock corporation of which a majority of the voting common or capital stock is owned
directly or indirectly by the Corporation.            2.2
 Award Supplement  means an augmentation of a Conditional Retention Award or a Retention Award for the period of time specified by the Committee by adding to such award an interest equivalent in an amount or at a rate determined by the
Committee from time to time in its discretion.         
  2.3  Board of Directors  means the Board of Directors of Mobil Corporation.   
        2.4  Committee  means the Compensation Committee of
the Board of Directors of Exxon Mobil Corporation or such other committee as may be designated by the Board of Directors to administer the Plan.         
  2.5  Conditional Retention Award  means an award made by the Committee under this Plan which is subject to the conditions set
forth in Article V hereof.            2.6
 Corporation  means Mobil Corporation, a Delaware corporation, or its successor.            2.7  Employee  means any person who is a regular full time employee of the Corporation or an Affiliated Corporation, including those who are officers or directors of the Corporation. In the
discretion of the Committee, this term may include persons who at the request of the Corporation accept employment with any company in which the Corporation has a substantial interest.            2.8  Plan  means this Mobil Management Retention Plan.   
        2.9  Retention Award  means an award made by the
Committee under this Plan which is no longer subject to the conditions set forth in Article V hereof and which is, therefore, non-forfeitable.   
         1   

Article III    Administration of the Plan    
        3.1  Composition of Committee.  This Plan shall be
administered by the Committee which shall consist of two or more members of the Board of Directors of Exxon Mobil Corporation.         
  3.2  Quorum.  A majority of the Committee shall constitute a quorum, and the acts of a majority of the members present at any meeting
at which a quorum is present, or acts approved in writing by all of the members in the absence of a meeting, shall be the acts of the Committee. Any one or more members of the Committee may participate in a meeting by telephone conference call or by
other communications equipment device by means of which all persons participating in the meeting can hear each other. Participation by such means shall constitute presence in person at such meeting.   
        3.3  Powers.  The Committee shall have full and final
authority to operate, manage and administer the Plan on behalf of the Corporation. This authority includes, but is not limited to:         
  (a) The power to establish the conditions, terms and contingencies of each grant.   
        (b) The power to prescribe the form or forms
of the instruments evidencing Conditional Retention Awards granted under this Plan.            (c) The power to direct the Corporation to make the conversions, accruals, and payments provided for by the Plan.         
  (d) The power to interpret the Plan.   
        (e) The power to provide regulations for the
operation, interpretation, management and administration of the Plan.            (f) The power to delegate to other persons the responsibility to perform ministerial acts in furtherance of the Plan s purpose, and            (g) The power to engage the services of persons, corporations, or organizations in furtherance
of the Plan s purpose, including but not limited to, banks, insurance companies, brokerage firms, and consultants.         
   Article IV    Criteria          
  4.1  Eligibility.  Conditional Retention Awards may be granted by the Committee in its sole discretion as it deems necessary to
retain those principal executive Employees whose continued employment is considered to be essential to the growth and success of the Corporation. Neither the members of the Committee nor any member of the Board of Directors who is not an Employee
shall be eligible to receive a Conditional Retention Award. Awards may be granted only by the Committee.         
  4.2  Frequency and Size.  The Committee may in its discretion grant Conditional Retention Awards in such amounts, in accordance with
such criteria, at such times, in such form and upon such conditions as it determines and may grant more than one such award to any one individual.   
         2   

4.3  Relevant Factors.  In selecting individual Employees to whom Conditional Retention
Awards shall be granted, as well as in determining the amount of such awards, and the conditions, type, terms and provisions of each grant, the Committee shall weigh such factors as are relevant to accomplish the purposes of the Plan as stated in
Article I, including but not limited to:            (a) the likelihood that alternative attractive financial opportunities will be offered to the Employee;         
  (b) the estimated net financial effect on the Corporation and its Affiliated Corporations of premature loss of the
Employee s services; and            (c)
the individual performance of the eligible Employee.            4.4  Suspension.  No Conditional Retention Awards have been granted since 1994, and no further awards are authorized.   
         Article V    Conditional Retention Awards
            5.1  Conditions.  Conditional Retention
Awards are provisional and forfeitable until all relevant conditions have been satisfied. Each Conditional Retention Award when granted shall require as a condition of full conversion to the status of a Retention Award:   
        (a) that, except in the event of death during
employment or termination of services because of long term disability as defined in the disability plans of the Corporation or an Affiliated Corporation, the Employee continue to be employed by the Corporation or by an Affiliated Corporation until
the Employee s normal retirement date or an early retirement date approved by the Committee, and         
  (b) that the Employee s performance should have been at a level satisfactory to the Corporation over the period that
the Conditional Retention Award is outstanding.         
  5.2  Reduction or Cancellation of Conditional Retention Awards.  Any Conditional Retention Award shall be cancelled and no payment
shall be made in respect thereof if the Employee s services are terminated for reasons other than long term disability or death before attaining normal retirement date or the early retirement date approved by the Committee. In the event of
death during employment or termination of services of the Employee because of long term disability under the Corporation s disability plans, or upon attainment by the Employee of normal retirement date or an early retirement date approved by
the Committee, the Committee will review the Employee s individual performance since the date on which each Conditional Retention Award was granted. If the Employee s performance during this period was satisfactory in that he or she more
than met the job requirements over the period that the Conditional Retention Award was outstanding then the full value of the Conditional Retention Award shall be converted into a Retention Award. If the quality of the Employee s performance
was less than satisfactory, the Committee, at its discretion, may reduce the value of the Conditional Retention Award or may cancel the Conditional Retention Award in which latter event no payment shall be made in respect thereof.   
         3   

5.3  Form of Conditional Retention Award and Communication.  Conditional Retention
Awards may be expressed in United States currency, performance units or a combination thereof as determined by the Committee and may provide for Award Supplements. The Committee in timely fashion shall communicate in writing to each Employee to whom
a Conditional Retention Award is granted under this Plan a description of the award including the applicable terms, conditions and contingencies of its payment.         
   Article VI    Settlement of Retention Awards    
        Upon satisfaction of the relevant conditions and conversion
of a Conditional Retention Award into a Retention Award, such an award shall be paid in the following manner:         
  (a) In the case of an Employee retiring after 2007, the amount of the award shall be converted to a cash equivalent lump
sum using the average price of Exxon Mobil Corporation stock over the six completed months prior to the Employee s retirement date and shall be paid to the Employee as soon as practicable in a single lump sum.   
        (b) In the case of an Employee retiring
before 2008, the award shall be paid in the form of periodic payments determined in the manner specified for notional stock balances under the Supplemental Savings Plan of Mobil Oil Corporation.   
        In the case of a Specified Employee, as defined in
Section 409A of the Internal Revenue Code, payment shall be made, or periodic payments shall commence, as applicable, 6 months after the Employee s retirement date. In such cases, the principal amount of the Retention Award shall be
credited with interest for 6 months at the Citibank prime lending rate.             Article VII    Award Supplements          
  The Committee may, in its discretion, direct the Corporation to supplement any Conditional Retention Award or Retention Award for a period
determined by the Committee from time to time in its discretion beginning not earlier than the date of grant and ending not later than the date of payment of any such award. Such Award Supplements shall have the provisional character of an
underlying Conditional Retention Award or the non-forfeitable character of an underlying Retention Award.             Article VIII    Accounts             For the purpose of accounting for Conditional Retention Awards and Retention Awards deferred as to payment, the Corporation shall maintain bookkeeping accounts for each Employee who has received such an
award. Each account shall be unfunded, shall not be a trust for the benefit of the Employee and shall not give the Employee any rights superior to those of unsecured general creditors of the Corporation. Such accounts shall be credited with such
Award Supplements as are authorized by the Committee.             Article
IX    Benefit Plans          
  Conditional Retention Awards, Retention Awards and Award Supplements may not be used in determining the amount of compensation for any
purpose under the benefit plans of the Corporation or an Affiliated Corporation, unless the Board of Directors shall otherwise from time to time expressly provide.   
         4   

Article X    Amendment, Suspension or Termination of the Plan    
        10.1  Suspension or Termination.  The Board of
Directors may suspend the Plan at any time or may terminate the Plan in its entirety. No awards shall be granted during any suspension of the Plan or after the Plan has been terminated. Conditional Retention Awards granted prior to suspension or
termination of the Plan may not be cancelled solely because of such suspension or termination, except with the consent of the grantee of the award.         
  10.2  Amendment.  The Board of Directors may amend the Plan from time to time, except that amendments which affect the qualification
for eligibility to become or remain a member of the Committee or which affect the requirements as to eligibility of Employees to participate in the Plan or which affect the prohibition against granting a Conditional Retention Award to a member of
the Committee must be approved by the shareholders of the Corporation.             Article XI    Effective Date and Duration of the Plan          
  The Plan is effective January 1, 1984, subject to the affirmative vote of the holders of a majority of all outstanding shares of
stock of the Corporation present in person or by proxy at the Annual Meeting of Stockholders in 1984. The Plan shall continue until such time as it may be terminated by action of the Board of Directors.   
         5   

</EX-10.(III) (G.3)>

<EX-12>
 8
 d257530dex12.htm
 COMPUTATION OF RATIO OF EARNINGS TO FIXED CHARGES

Computation of ratio of earnings to fixed charges 

EXHIBIT 12        EXXON MOBIL CORPORATION        COMPUTATION OF RATIO OF EARNINGS TO FIXED CHARGES    

</EX-12>

<EX-21>
 9
 d257530dex21.htm
 SUBSIDIARIES OF THE REGISTRANT

Subsidiaries of the registrant 

EXHIBIT 21        Subsidiaries of the Registrant (1), (2) and (3)   at December 31, 2011        

Percentage of   Voting Securities   Owned Directly   or Indirectly by Registrant  
      
  State or   Country of Organization   

Abu Dhabi Petroleum Company Limited (5)   
      
              23.75  
      
  United Kingdom   
 
    Aera Energy LLC (5)   
      
              48.2  
      
  California   
 
    AKG Marketing Company Limited   
      
            100  
      
  Bahamas   
 
    Al-Jubail Petrochemical Company (4) (5)   
      
              50  
      
  Saudi Arabia   
 
    Ampolex (CEPU) Pte Ltd   
      
            100  
      
  Singapore   
 
    Ancon Insurance Company, Inc.   
      
            100  
      
  Vermont   
 
    Barnett Gathering, LP   
      
            100  
      
  Texas   
 
    Barzan Gas Company Limited (5)   
      
                7  
      
  Qatar   
 
    BEB Erdgas und Erdoel GmbH (4) (5)   
      
              50  
      
  Germany   
 
    Cameroon Oil Transportation Company S.A. (5)   
      
              41.06  
      
  Cameroon   
 
    Caspian Pipeline Consortium (5)   
      
                7.5  
      
  Russia/Kazakhstan   
 
    Castle Peak Power Company Limited (5)   
      
              60  
      
  Hong Kong   
 
    Chalmette Refining, LLC (4) (5)   
      
              50  
      
  Delaware   
 
    Cross Timbers Energy Services, Inc.   
      
            100  
      
  Texas   
 
    Ellora Energy Inc.   
      
            100  
      
  Delaware   
 
    Ellora Land Holdings, LP   
      
            100  
      
  Colorado   
 
    Esso Australia Resources Pty Ltd   
      
            100  
      
  Australia   
 
    Esso Deutschland GmbH   
      
            100  
      
  Germany   
 
    Esso Erdgas Beteiligungsgesellschaft mbH   
      
            100  
      
  Germany   
 
    Esso Exploration and Production Angola (Block 31) Limited   
      
            100  
      
  Bahamas   
 
    Esso Exploration and Production Angola (Overseas) Limited   
      
            100  
      
  Bahamas   
 
    Esso Exploration and Production Chad Inc.   
      
            100  
      
  Delaware   
 
    Esso Exploration and Production Nigeria (Deepwater) Limited   
      
            100  
      
  Nigeria   
 
    Esso Exploration and Production Nigeria (Offshore East) Limited   
      
            100  
      
  Nigeria   
 
    Esso Exploration and Production Nigeria Limited   
      
            100  
      
  Nigeria   
 
    Esso Exploration and Production UK Limited   
      
            100  
      
  United Kingdom   
 
    Esso Exploration Angola (Block 15) Limited   
      
            100  
      
  Bahamas   
 
    Esso Exploration Angola (Block 17) Limited   
      
            100  
      
  Bahamas   
 
    Esso Highlands Limited   
      
            100  
      
  Papua New Guinea   
 
    Esso Ireland Limited   
      
            100  
      
  Ireland   
 
    Esso Italiana S.r.l.   
      
            100  
      
  Italy   
 
    Esso Malaysia Berhad   
      
              65  
      
  Malaysia   
 
    Esso Nederland B.V.   
      
            100  
      
  Netherlands   
 
    Esso Norge AS   
      
            100  
      
  Norway   
 
    Esso Petrolera Argentina Sociedad de Responsabilidad Limitada   
      
            100  
      
  Argentina   
 
    Esso Petroleum Company, Limited   
      
            100  
      
  United Kingdom   
 
    Esso Pipeline Investments Limited   
      
            100  
      
  Bahamas   
 
    Esso Raffinage   
      
              82.89  
      
  France   
 
    Esso Societe Anonyme Francaise   
      
              82.89  
      
  France   
 
    Esso (Thailand) Public Company Limited   
      
              65.99  
      
  Thailand   
 
    Esso Trading Company of Abu Dhabi   
      
            100  
      
  Delaware   
 
    Exxon Azerbaijan Limited   
      
            100  
      
  Bahamas   
 
    Exxon Chemical Arabia Inc.   
      
            100  
      
  Delaware   
 
    Exxon Luxembourg Holdings LLC   
      
            100  
      
  Delaware   
 
    Exxon Mobile Bay Limited Partnership   
      
            100  
      
  Delaware   
 
    Exxon Neftegas Limited   
      
            100  
      
  Bahamas   
 
    Exxon Overseas Corporation   
      
            100  
      
  Delaware   
 
         - 1 -

Percentage of   Voting Securities   Owned Directly   or Indirectly by Registrant  
      
  State or   Country of Organization   

Exxon Overseas Investment Corporation   
      
              100  
      
  Delaware   
 
    ExxonMobil Abu Dhabi Offshore Petroleum Company Limited   
      
              100  
      
  Bahamas   
 
    ExxonMobil Alaska Production Inc.   
      
              100  
      
  Delaware   
 
    ExxonMobil Asia Pacific Pte. Ltd.   
      
              100  
      
  Singapore   
 
    ExxonMobil Australia Pty Ltd   
      
              100  
      
  Australia   
 
    ExxonMobil Belgium Finance   
      
              100  
      
  Belgium   
 
    ExxonMobil Business Finance Company   
      
              100  
      
  Nevada   
 
    ExxonMobil Canada Energy   
      
              100  
      
  Canada   
 
    ExxonMobil Canada Ltd.   
      
              100  
      
  Canada   
 
    ExxonMobil Canada Properties   
      
              100  
      
  Canada   
 
    ExxonMobil Canada Resources Company   
      
              100  
      
  Canada   
 
    ExxonMobil Capital N.V.   
      
              100  
      
  Netherlands   
 
    ExxonMobil Catalyst Technologies LLC   
      
              100  
      
  Delaware   
 
    ExxonMobil Central Europe Holding GmbH   
      
              100  
      
  Germany   
 
    ExxonMobil Chemical France   
      
                99.77  
      
  France   
 
    ExxonMobil Chemical Holland B.V.   
      
              100  
      
  Netherlands   
 
    ExxonMobil Chemical Limited   
      
              100  
      
  United Kingdom   
 
    ExxonMobil China Petroleum   Petrochemical Company Limited   
      
              100  
      
  Bahamas   
 
    ExxonMobil de Colombia S.A.   
      
                99.7  
      
  Colombia   
 
    ExxonMobil Delaware Holdings Inc.   
      
              100  
      
  Delaware   
 
    ExxonMobil Development Company   
      
              100  
      
  Delaware   
 
    ExxonMobil Egypt (S.A.E.)   
      
              100  
      
  Egypt   
 
    ExxonMobil Energy Limited   
      
              100  
      
  Hong Kong   
 
    ExxonMobil Exploration and Production Malaysia Inc.   
      
              100  
      
  Delaware   
 
    ExxonMobil Exploration and Production Norway AS   
      
              100  
      
  Norway   
 
    ExxonMobil Finance Company Limited   
      
              100  
      
  United Kingdom   
 
    ExxonMobil France Holding SAS   
      
              100  
      
  France   
 
    ExxonMobil Gas Marketing Deutschland GmbH   
      
              100  
      
  Germany   
 
    ExxonMobil Gas Marketing Deutschland GmbH   Co. KG   
      
                50  
      
  Germany   
 
    ExxonMobil Gas Marketing Europe Limited   
      
              100  
      
  United Kingdom   
 
    ExxonMobil Global Services Company   
      
              100  
      
  Delaware   
 
    ExxonMobil Holding Company Holland LLC   
      
              100  
      
  Delaware   
 
    ExxonMobil Holding Norway AS   
      
              100  
      
  Norway   
 
    ExxonMobil Hong Kong Limited   
      
              100  
      
  Hong Kong   
 
    ExxonMobil International Services   
      
              100  
      
  Luxembourg   
 
    ExxonMobil Iraq Limited   
      
              100  
      
  Bahamas   
 
    ExxonMobil Italiana Gas S.r.l.   
      
              100  
      
  Italy   
 
    ExxonMobil Kazakhstan Inc.   
      
              100  
      
  Bahamas   
 
    ExxonMobil Kazakhstan Ventures Inc.   
      
              100  
      
  Delaware   
 
    ExxonMobil Kurdistan Region of Iraq Limited   
      
              100  
      
  Bahamas   
 
    ExxonMobil Libya Limited   
      
              100  
      
  Bahamas   
 
    ExxonMobil Malaysia Sdn Bhd   
      
              100  
      
  Malaysia   
 
    ExxonMobil Marine Limited   
      
              100  
      
  United Kingdom   
 
    ExxonMobil Oil   Gas Investments Limited   
      
              100  
      
  Bahamas   
 
    ExxonMobil Oil Corporation   
      
              100  
      
  New York   
 
    ExxonMobil Oil Indonesia Inc.   
      
              100  
      
  Cayman Islands   
 
    ExxonMobil Permian Basin Inc.   
      
              100  
      
  Delaware   
 
    ExxonMobil Petroleum   Chemical   
      
              100  
      
  Belgium   
 
    ExxonMobil Pipeline Company   
      
              100  
      
  Delaware   
 
    ExxonMobil Production Deutschland GmbH   
      
              100  
      
  Germany   
 
    ExxonMobil Production Norway Inc.   
      
              100  
      
  Delaware   
 
         - 2 -

Percentage of   Voting Securities   Owned Directly   or Indirectly by Registrant  
      
  State or   Country of Organization   

ExxonMobil Qatargas Inc.   
      
            100  
      
  Delaware   
 
    ExxonMobil Qatargas (II) Limited   
      
            100  
      
  Bahamas   
 
    ExxonMobil Qatargas (II) Terminal Company Limited   
      
            100  
      
  Bahamas   
 
    ExxonMobil Ras Laffan (III) Limited   
      
            100  
      
  Bahamas   
 
    ExxonMobil Rasgas Inc.   
      
            100  
      
  Delaware   
 
    ExxonMobil Research and Engineering Company   
      
            100  
      
  Delaware   
 
    ExxonMobil Sales and Supply LLC   
      
            100  
      
  Delaware   
 
    ExxonMobil Southwest Holdings Inc.   
      
            100  
      
  Delaware   
 
    ExxonMobil Technology Finance Company   
      
            100  
      
  Delaware   
 
    ExxonMobil Ventures Funding Ltd.   
      
            100  
      
  Bahamas   
 
    ExxonMobil Yugen Kaisha   
      
            100  
      
  Japan   
 
    Fina Antwerp Olefins N.V. (5)   
      
              35  
      
  Belgium   
 
    Fujian Refining   Petrochemical Co. Ltd. (5)   
      
              25  
      
  China   
 
    Golden Pass LNG Terminal Investments LLC   
      
            100  
      
  Delaware   
 
    Golden Pass LNG Terminal LLC (5)   
      
              17.6  
      
  Delaware   
 
    Imperial Oil Limited   
      
              69.6  
      
  Canada   
 
    Imperial Oil (an Ontario General Partnership)   
      
              69.6  
      
  Canada   
 
    Imperial Oil Resources (an Alberta limited partnership)   
      
              69.6  
      
  Canada   
 
    Imperial Oil Resources Limited   
      
              69.6  
      
  Canada   
 
    Imperial Oil Resources N.W.T. Limited   
      
              69.6  
      
  Canada   
 
    Imperial Oil Resources Ventures Limited   
      
              69.6  
      
  Canada   
 
    Infineum Holdings B.V. (5)   
      
              49.96  
      
  Netherlands   
 
    Kyokuto Petroleum Industries, Ltd. (4) (5)   
      
              50  
      
  Japan   
 
    Mobil Australia Resources Company Pty Limited   
      
            100  
      
  Australia   
 
    Mobil California Exploration   Producing Asset Company   
      
            100  
      
  Delaware   
 
    Mobil Caspian Pipeline Company   
      
            100  
      
  Delaware   
 
    Mobil Cepu Ltd.   
      
            100  
      
  Bermuda   
 
    Mobil Cerro Negro, Ltd.   
      
            100  
      
  Bahamas   
 
    Mobil Corporation   
      
            100  
      
  Delaware   
 
    Mobil Equatorial Guinea Inc.   
      
            100  
      
  Delaware   
 
    Mobil Erdgas-Erdoel GmbH   
      
            100  
      
  Germany   
 
    Mobil Exploration Indonesia Inc.   
      
            100  
      
  Cayman Islands   
 
    Mobil Oil Australia Pty Ltd   
      
            100  
      
  Australia   
 
    Mobil Oil Exploration   Producing Southeast Inc.   
      
            100  
      
  Delaware   
 
    Mobil Oil New Zealand Limited   
      
            100  
      
  New Zealand   
 
    Mobil Producing Nigeria Unlimited   
      
            100  
      
  Nigeria   
 
    Mobil Producing Texas   New Mexico Inc.   
      
            100  
      
  Delaware   
 
    Mobil Refining Australia Pty Ltd   
      
            100  
      
  Australia   
 
    Mobil Services (Bahamas) Limited   
      
            100  
      
  Bahamas   
 
    Mobil Yanbu Petrochemical Company Inc.   
      
            100  
      
  Delaware   
 
    Mobil Yanbu Refining Company Inc.   
      
            100  
      
  Delaware   
 
    Nederlandse Aardolie Maatschappij B.V. (4) (5)   
      
              50  
      
  Netherlands   
 
    Palmetto Transoceanic LLC   
      
            100  
      
  Delaware   
 
    Papua New Guinea Liquefied Natural Gas Global Company LDC (5)   
      
              33.2  
      
  Bahamas   
 
    Phillips Exploration, Inc.   
      
            100  
      
  Pennsylvania   
 
    Qatar Liquefied Gas Company Limited (5)   
      
              10  
      
  Qatar   
 
    Qatar Liquefied Gas Company Limited (2) (5)   
      
              24.15  
      
  Qatar   
 
    Ras Laffan Liquefied Natural Gas Company Limited (5)   
      
              24.999  
      
  Qatar   
 
    Ras Laffan Liquefied Natural Gas Company Limited (II) (5)   
      
              31.006  
      
  Qatar   
 
    Ras Laffan Liquefied Natural Gas Company Limited (3) (5)   
      
              30  
      
  Qatar   
 
         - 3 -

Percentage of   Voting Securities   Owned Directly   or Indirectly by Registrant  
      
  State or   Country of Organization   

Saudi Aramco Mobil Refinery Company Ltd. (4) (5)   
      
              50  
      
  Saudi Arabia   
 
    Saudi Yanbu Petrochemical Co. (4) (5)   
      
              50  
      
  Saudi Arabia   
 
    SeaRiver Maritime Financial Holdings, Inc.   
      
            100  
      
  Delaware   
 
    SeaRiver Maritime, Inc.   
      
            100  
      
  Delaware   
 
    Shimizu LNG Co. Ltd. (5)   
      
              35  
      
  Japan   
 
    Societa a responsabilita limitata Raffineria Padana Olii Minerali S.A.R.P.O.M. S.r.l.   
      
              74.14  
      
  Italy   
 
    South Hook LNG Terminal Company Limited (5)   
      
              24.15  
      
  United Kingdom   
 
    Tengizchevroil, LLP (5)   
      
              25  
      
  Kazakhstan   
 
    Terminale GNL Adriatico S.r.l. (5)   
      
              70.679  
      
  Italy   
 
    Tonen Chemical Corporation   
      
              50.088  
      
  Japan   
 
    Tonen Chemical Nasu Corporation   
      
              50.088  
      
  Japan   
 
    TonenGeneral Sekiyu K.K.   
      
              50.088  
      
  Japan   
 
    Toray Tonen Specialty Separator Godo Kaisha (5)   
      
              25.04  
      
  Japan   
 
    Trend Gathering   Treating, LP   
      
            100  
      
  Texas   
 
    XH, LLC   
      
            100  
      
  Delaware   
 
    XTO Energy Inc.   
      
            100  
      
  Delaware   
 
    XTO Offshore Inc.   
      
            100  
      
  Delaware   
        NOTES:   

(1)  
     
  For the purposes of this list, if the registrant owns directly or indirectly approximately 50 percent of the voting securities of any person and approximately 50
percent of the voting securities of such person is owned directly or indirectly by another interest, or if the registrant includes its share of net income of any other unconsolidated person in consolidated net income, such person is deemed to be a
subsidiary.     

(2)  
     
  With respect to certain companies, shares in names of nominees and qualifying shares in names of directors are included in the above percentages.

(3)  
     
  The names of other subsidiaries have been omitted from the above list since considered in the aggregate, they would not constitute a significant subsidiary under
Securities and Exchange Commission Regulation S-X, Rule 1-02(w).     

(4)  
     
  The registrant owns directly or indirectly approximately 50 percent of the securities of this person and approximately 50 percent of the voting securities of this
person is owned directly or indirectly by another single interest.     

(5)  
     
  The investment in this unconsolidated person is represented by the registrant s percentage interest in the underlying net assets of such person. The accounting for
these unconsolidated persons is referred to as the equity method of accounting.     
         - 4 -

</EX-21>

<EX-23>
 10
 d257530dex23.htm
 CONSENT OF PRICEWATERHOUSECOOPERS LLP

Consent of PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP 

EXHIBIT 23        CONSENT OF INDEPENDENT REGISTERED PUBLIC ACCOUNTING FIRM       We hereby consent to the
incorporation by reference in the following Exxon Mobil Corporation Registration Statements on:       
    of our report dated February 24, 2012, relating to the financial statements and the effectiveness of internal
control over financial reporting, which appears in this Form 10-K.       
  /S/ PRICEWATERHOUSECOOPERS LLP      Dallas, Texas
     February 24, 2012   

</EX-23>

<EX-31.1>
 11
 d257530dex311.htm
 CERTIFICATION - CHIEF EXECUTIVE OFFICER

Certification - Chief Executive Officer 

EXHIBIT 31.1        Certification by Rex W. Tillerson        Pursuant to Securities Exchange Act Rule 13a-14(a)
      I, Rex W. Tillerson, certify that:       

1.  
  I have reviewed this annual report on Form 10-K of Exxon Mobil Corporation;         

2.  
  Based on my knowledge, this report does not contain any untrue statement of a material fact or omit to state a material fact necessary to make the statements made, in light of
the circumstances under which such statements were made, not misleading with respect to the period covered by this report;         

3.  
  Based on my knowledge, the financial statements, and other financial information included in this report, fairly present in all material respects the financial condition,
results of operations and cash flows of the registrant as of, and for, the periods presented in this report;         

4.  
  The registrant s other certifying officers and I are responsible for establishing and maintaining disclosure controls and procedures (as defined in Exchange Act Rules
13a-15(e) and 15d-15(e)) and internal control over financial reporting (as defined in Exchange Act Rules 13a-15(f) and 15d-15(f)) for the registrant and have:     

(a)  
  Designed such disclosure controls and procedures, or caused such disclosure controls and procedures to be designed under our supervision, to ensure that material information
relating to the registrant, including its consolidated subsidiaries, is made known to us by others within those entities, particularly during the period in which this report is being prepared;     

(b)  
  Designed such internal control over financial reporting, or caused such internal control over financial reporting to be designed under our supervision, to provide reasonable
assurance regarding the reliability of financial reporting and the preparation of financial statements for external purposes in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles;     

(c)  
  Evaluated the effectiveness of the registrant s disclosure controls and procedures and presented in this report our conclusions about the effectiveness of the disclosure
controls and procedures, as of the end of the period covered by this report based on such evaluation; and         

(d)  
  Disclosed in this report any change in the registrant s internal control over financial reporting that occurred during the registrant s most recent fiscal quarter
(the registrant s fourth fiscal quarter in the case of an annual report) that has materially affected, or is reasonably likely to materially affect, the registrant s internal control over financial reporting; and     

5.  
  The registrant s other certifying officers and I have disclosed, based on our most recent evaluation of internal control over financial reporting, to the
registrant s auditors and the audit committee of the registrant s board of directors (or persons performing the equivalent functions):         

(a)  
  All significant deficiencies and material weaknesses in the design or operation of internal control over financial reporting which are reasonably likely to adversely affect
the registrant s ability to record, process, summarize and report financial information; and         

(b)  
  Any fraud, whether or not material, that involves management or other employees who have a significant role in the registrant s internal control over financial reporting.
       Date: February 24, 2012        

/s/    REX W. TILLERSON           
 
    Rex W. Tillerson     Chief Executive Officer    

</EX-31.1>

<EX-31.2>
 12
 d257530dex312.htm
 CERTIFICATION - PRINICPAL FINANCIAL OFFICER

Certification - Prinicpal Financial Officer 

EXHIBIT 31.2        Certification by Donald D. Humphreys        Pursuant to Securities Exchange Act Rule 13a-14(a)
      I, Donald D. Humphreys, certify that:       

1.  
  I have reviewed this annual report on Form 10-K of Exxon Mobil Corporation;         

2.  
  Based on my knowledge, this report does not contain any untrue statement of a material fact or omit to state a material fact necessary to make the statements made, in light of
the circumstances under which such statements were made, not misleading with respect to the period covered by this report;         

3.  
  Based on my knowledge, the financial statements, and other financial information included in this report, fairly present in all material respects the financial condition,
results of operations and cash flows of the registrant as of, and for, the periods presented in this report;         

4.  
  The registrant s other certifying officers and I are responsible for establishing and maintaining disclosure controls and procedures (as defined in Exchange Act Rules
13a-15(e) and 15d-15(e)) and internal control over financial reporting (as defined in Exchange Act Rules 13a-15(f) and 15d-15(f)) for the registrant and have:     

(a)  
  Designed such disclosure controls and procedures, or caused such disclosure controls and procedures to be designed under our supervision, to ensure that material information
relating to the registrant, including its consolidated subsidiaries, is made known to us by others within those entities, particularly during the period in which this report is being prepared;     

(b)  
  Designed such internal control over financial reporting, or caused such internal control over financial reporting to be designed under our supervision, to provide reasonable
assurance regarding the reliability of financial reporting and the preparation of financial statements for external purposes in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles;     

(c)  
  Evaluated the effectiveness of the registrant s disclosure controls and procedures and presented in this report our conclusions about the effectiveness of the disclosure
controls and procedures, as of the end of the period covered by this report based on such evaluation; and         

(d)  
  Disclosed in this report any change in the registrant s internal control over financial reporting that occurred during the registrant s most recent fiscal quarter
(the registrant s fourth fiscal quarter in the case of an annual report) that has materially affected, or is reasonably likely to materially affect, the registrant s internal control over financial reporting; and     

5.  
  The registrant s other certifying officers and I have disclosed, based on our most recent evaluation of internal control over financial reporting, to the
registrant s auditors and the audit committee of the registrant s board of directors (or persons performing the equivalent functions):         

(a)  
  All significant deficiencies and material weaknesses in the design or operation of internal control over financial reporting which are reasonably likely to adversely affect
the registrant s ability to record, process, summarize and report financial information; and         

(b)  
  Any fraud, whether or not material, that involves management or other employees who have a significant role in the registrant s internal control over financial reporting.
       Date: February 24, 2012        

/s/    DONALD D. HUMPHREYS           
 
    Donald D. Humphreys     Senior Vice President      (Principal Financial Officer)    

</EX-31.2>

<EX-31.3>
 13
 d257530dex313.htm
 CERTIFICATION - PRINCIPAL ACCOUNTING OFFICER

Certification - Principal Accounting Officer 

EXHIBIT 31.3        Certification by Patrick T. Mulva        Pursuant to Securities Exchange Act Rule 13a-14(a)
      I, Patrick T. Mulva, certify that:       

1.  
  I have reviewed this annual report on Form 10-K of Exxon Mobil Corporation;         

2.  
  Based on my knowledge, this report does not contain any untrue statement of a material fact or omit to state a material fact necessary to make the statements made, in light of
the circumstances under which such statements were made, not misleading with respect to the period covered by this report;         

3.  
  Based on my knowledge, the financial statements, and other financial information included in this report, fairly present in all material respects the financial condition,
results of operations and cash flows of the registrant as of, and for, the periods presented in this report;         

4.  
  The registrant s other certifying officers and I are responsible for establishing and maintaining disclosure controls and procedures (as defined in Exchange Act Rules
13a-15(e) and 15d-15(e)) and internal control over financial reporting (as defined in Exchange Act Rules 13a-15(f) and 15d-15(f)) for the registrant and have:     

(a)  
  Designed such disclosure controls and procedures, or caused such disclosure controls and procedures to be designed under our supervision, to ensure that material information
relating to the registrant, including its consolidated subsidiaries, is made known to us by others within those entities, particularly during the period in which this report is being prepared;     

(b)  
  Designed such internal control over financial reporting, or caused such internal control over financial reporting to be designed under our supervision, to provide reasonable
assurance regarding the reliability of financial reporting and the preparation of financial statements for external purposes in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles;     

(c)  
  Evaluated the effectiveness of the registrant s disclosure controls and procedures and presented in this report our conclusions about the effectiveness of the disclosure
controls and procedures, as of the end of the period covered by this report based on such evaluation; and         

(d)  
  Disclosed in this report any change in the registrant s internal control over financial reporting that occurred during the registrant s most recent fiscal quarter
(the registrant s fourth fiscal quarter in the case of an annual report) that has materially affected, or is reasonably likely to materially affect, the registrant s internal control over financial reporting; and     

5.  
  The registrant s other certifying officers and I have disclosed, based on our most recent evaluation of internal control over financial reporting, to the
registrant s auditors and the audit committee of the registrant s board of directors (or persons performing the equivalent functions):         

(a)  
  All significant deficiencies and material weaknesses in the design or operation of internal control over financial reporting which are reasonably likely to adversely affect
the registrant s ability to record, process, summarize and report financial information; and         

(b)  
  Any fraud, whether or not material, that involves management or other employees who have a significant role in the registrant s internal control over financial reporting.
       Date: February 24, 2012        

/s/    PATRICK T. MULVA           
 
    Patrick T. Mulva     Vice President and Controller     (Principal Accounting Officer)    

</EX-31.3>

<EX-32.1>
 14
 d257530dex321.htm
 SECTION 906 CERTIFICATION - CHIEF EXECUTIVE OFFICER

Section 906 Certification - Chief Executive Officer 

EXHIBIT 32.1        Certification of Periodic Financial Report        Pursuant to 18 U.S.C. Section 1350
      For purposes of 18 U.S.C. Section 1350, as adopted pursuant to Section 906 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, the undersigned,
Rex W. Tillerson, the chief executive officer of Exxon Mobil Corporation (the  Company ), hereby certifies that, to his knowledge:      (i) the Annual Report on Form 10-K of the Company for the year ended December 31, 2011, as filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission on the date hereof (the  Report ) fully complies with the
requirements of section 13(a) or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934; and      (ii) the information contained in the Report
fairly presents, in all material respects, the financial condition and results of operations of the Company.      Date: February 24, 2012   

/s/    REX W. TILLERSON           
 
    Rex W. Tillerson     Chief Executive Officer    
 
   A signed original of this written statement required by Section 906 has been provided to Exxon Mobil Corporation and will
be retained by Exxon Mobil Corporation and furnished to the Securities and Exchange Commission or its staff upon request.   

</EX-32.1>

<EX-32.2>
 15
 d257530dex322.htm
 SECTION 906 CERTIFICATION - PRINCIPAL FINANCIAL OFFICER

Section 906 Certification - Principal Financial Officer 

EXHIBIT 32.2        Certification of Periodic Financial Report        Pursuant to 18 U.S.C. Section 1350
      For purposes of 18 U.S.C. Section 1350, as adopted pursuant to Section 906 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, the undersigned,
Donald D. Humphreys, the principal financial officer of Exxon Mobil Corporation (the  Company ), hereby certifies that, to his knowledge:      (i) the Annual Report on Form 10-K of the Company for the year ended December 31, 2011, as filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission on the date hereof (the  Report ) fully complies with the
requirements of section 13(a) or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934; and      (ii) the information contained in the Report
fairly presents, in all material respects, the financial condition and results of operations of the Company.      Date: February 24, 2012   

/s/    DONALD D. HUMPHREYS           
 
    Donald D. Humphreys     Senior Vice President      (Principal Financial Officer)    
 
   A signed original of this written statement required by Section 906 has been provided to Exxon Mobil Corporation and will
be retained by Exxon Mobil Corporation and furnished to the Securities and Exchange Commission or its staff upon request.   

</EX-32.2>

<EX-32.3>
 16
 d257530dex323.htm
 SECTION 906 CERT. -  PRINCIPAL ACCOUNTING OFFICER

Section 906 Cert. -  Principal Accounting Officer 

EXHIBIT 32.3        Certification of Periodic Financial Report        Pursuant to 18 U.S.C. Section 1350
      For purposes of 18 U.S.C. Section 1350, as adopted pursuant to Section 906 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, the undersigned,
Patrick T. Mulva, the principal accounting officer of Exxon Mobil Corporation (the  Company ), hereby certifies that, to his knowledge:      (i) the Annual Report on Form 10-K of the Company for the year ended December 31, 2011, as filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission on the date hereof (the  Report ) fully complies with the
requirements of section 13(a) or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934; and      (ii) the information contained in the Report
fairly presents, in all material respects, the financial condition and results of operations of the Company.      Date: February 24, 2012   

/s/    PATRICK T. MULVA           
 
    Patrick T. Mulva     Vice President and Controller     (Principal Accounting Officer)    
 
   A signed original of this written statement required by Section 906 has been provided to Exxon Mobil Corporation and will
be retained by Exxon Mobil Corporation and furnished to the Securities and Exchange Commission or its staff upon request.   

</EX-32.3>

<EX-101.INS>
 17
 xom-20111231.xml
 XBRL INSTANCE DOCUMENT

</EX-101.INS>

<EX-101.SCH>
 18
 xom-20111231.xsd
 XBRL TAXONOMY EXTENSION SCHEMA

</EX-101.SCH>

<EX-101.CAL>
 19
 xom-20111231_cal.xml
 XBRL TAXONOMY EXTENSION CALCULATION LINKBASE

</EX-101.CAL>

<EX-101.DEF>
 20
 xom-20111231_def.xml
 XBRL TAXONOMY EXTENSION DEFINITION LINKBASE

</EX-101.DEF>

<EX-101.LAB>
 21
 xom-20111231_lab.xml
 XBRL TAXONOMY EXTENSION LABEL LINKBASE

</EX-101.LAB>

<EX-101.PRE>
 22
 xom-20111231_pre.xml
 XBRL TAXONOMY EXTENSION PRESENTATION LINKBASE

</EX-101.PRE>

CORRESP
 29
 filename29.htm

SEC Letter 

Exxon Mobil Corporation       5959 Las Colinas Boulevard      Irving, TX 75039-2298   

February 24, 2012   
                      
    Exxon Mobil Corporation   
                      
    2011 Annual Report on Form 10-K      Securities and Exchange Commission   
  100 F Street N.E.      Washington, D.C. 20549
     Attention: EDGAR Document Control   
  Dear Sirs:      Transmitted with this cover note is
Exxon Mobil Corporation s 2011 Annual Report on Form 10-K.      The financial statements contained in ExxonMobil s 2011 Annual Report on
Form 10-K do not reflect any material changes from the preceding year resulting from changes in any accounting principles or practices, or in the method of applying such principles or practices. The Corporation did not adopt authoritative guidance
in 2011 that had a material impact on the Corporation s financial statements.   
                      
    Sincerely,   
                      
     /s/ LEONARD M. FOX                                
                      
    Leonard M. Fox   
                      
    Assistant Controller      Attachments   

