<Header>
<FileStats>
    <FileName>20160224_10-K_edgar_data_34088_0000034088-16-000065_1.txt</FileName>
    <GrossFileSize>20946687</GrossFileSize>
    <NetFileSize>494200</NetFileSize>
    <NonText_DocumentType_Chars>783578</NonText_DocumentType_Chars>
    <HTML_Chars>8268355</HTML_Chars>
    <XBRL_Chars>6824685</XBRL_Chars>
    <XML_Chars>2087600</XML_Chars>
    <N_Tables>109</N_Tables>
    <N_Exhibits>20</N_Exhibits>
</FileStats>
<SEC-Header>
0000034088-16-000065.hdr.sgml : 20160224
<ACCEPTANCE-DATETIME>20160224160922
ACCESSION NUMBER:		0000034088-16-000065
CONFORMED SUBMISSION TYPE:	10-K
PUBLIC DOCUMENT COUNT:		132
CONFORMED PERIOD OF REPORT:	20151231
FILED AS OF DATE:		20160224
DATE AS OF CHANGE:		20160224

FILER:

	COMPANY DATA:	
		COMPANY CONFORMED NAME:			EXXON MOBIL CORP
		CENTRAL INDEX KEY:			0000034088
		STANDARD INDUSTRIAL CLASSIFICATION:	PETROLEUM REFINING [2911]
		IRS NUMBER:				135409005
		STATE OF INCORPORATION:			NJ
		FISCAL YEAR END:			1231

	FILING VALUES:
		FORM TYPE:		10-K
		SEC ACT:		1934 Act
		SEC FILE NUMBER:	001-02256
		FILM NUMBER:		161452039

	BUSINESS ADDRESS:	
		STREET 1:		5959 LAS COLINAS BLVD
		CITY:			IRVING
		STATE:			TX
		ZIP:			75039-2298
		BUSINESS PHONE:		9724441000

	MAIL ADDRESS:	
		STREET 1:		5959 LAS COLINAS BLVD
		CITY:			IRVING
		STATE:			TX
		ZIP:			75039-2298

	FORMER COMPANY:	
		FORMER CONFORMED NAME:	EXXON CORP
		DATE OF NAME CHANGE:	19920703

	FORMER COMPANY:	
		FORMER CONFORMED NAME:	STANDARD OIL CO OF NEW JERSEY
		DATE OF NAME CHANGE:	19721123

</SEC-Header>
</Header>

 0000034088-16-000065.txt : 20160224

10-K
 1
 xom10k2015.htm
 FORM 10-K

2015    

UNITED STATES    

   SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION    

   WASHINGTON,
 D.C. 20549    

FORM 10-K    

            ANNUAL
REPORT PURSUANT TO SECTION 13 OR 15(d) OF    

   THE
SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934    

  For the fiscal year
ended December 31, 2015   

  or   

            TRANSITION
REPORT PURSUANT TO SECTION 13 OR 15(d) OF    

   THE
SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934    

  For the transition period from
              
to

Commission File Number 1-2256   

   EXXON MOBIL CORPORATION    

  (Exact name of registrant as specified in its charter)   

NEW JERSEY   

13-5409005   

(State or other jurisdiction of  
    incorporation or organization)  

(I.R.S. Employer  
    Identification Number)  

5959 LAS COLINAS BOULEVARD, IRVING, TEXAS 75039-2298    

  (Address of principal executive offices) (Zip Code)   

   (972) 444-1000    

  (Registrant s telephone number, including area code)   

Securities registered pursuant to Section 12(b) of the
Act:   

Indicate by check mark if the registrant is a
well-known seasoned issuer, as defined in Rule 405 of the Securities
Act.    Yes              No         

  Indicate by check mark if the registrant is not
required to file reports pursuant to Section 13 or Section 15(d) of the
Act.    Yes            No             

  Indicate by check mark whether the registrant (1) has
filed all reports required to be filed by Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities
Exchange Act of 1934 during the preceding 12 months (or for such shorter period
that the registrant was required to file such reports), and (2) has been
subject to such filing requirements for the past 90 days.    Yes  
           No             

  Indicate by check mark whether the registrant has
submitted electronically and posted on its corporate Web site, if any, every
Interactive Data File required to be submitted and posted pursuant to Rule 405
of Regulation S-T during the preceding 12 months (or for such shorter period
that the registrant was required to submit and post such
files).    Yes              No         

  Indicate by check mark if disclosure of delinquent
filers pursuant to Item 405 of Regulation S-K is not contained herein, and will
not be contained, to the best of registrant s knowledge, in definitive proxy or
information statements incorporated by reference in Part III of this
Form 10-K or any amendment to this Form 10-K.             

  Indicate by check mark whether the registrant is a
large accelerated filer, an accelerated filer, a non-accelerated filer or a
smaller reporting company. See the definitions of  large accelerated filer, 
 accelerated filer,  and  smaller reporting company  in Rule 12b-2 of the
Exchange Act.   

Large accelerated
filer                  
   Accelerated filer             

  Non-accelerated filer                    Smaller
reporting company             

  Indicate by check mark whether the registrant is a
shell company (as defined by Rule 12b-2 of the
Act).    Yes             No             

  The aggregate market value of the voting stock held by
non-affiliates of the registrant on June 30, 2015, the last business day
of the registrant s most recently completed second fiscal quarter, based on the
closing price on that date of $83.20 on the New York Stock Exchange composite
tape, was in excess of $346 billion.   

   Documents Incorporated by Reference:  Proxy
Statement for the 2016 Annual Meeting of Shareholders (Part III)    

EXXON MOBIL CORPORATION    

   FORM
10-K    

   FOR
THE FISCAL YEAR ENDED DECEMBER 31, 2015    

   TABLE OF CONTENTS    

PART I   

Item 1.  

Business  

1    

Item 1A.  

Risk Factors  

2    

Item 1B.  

Unresolved Staff Comments  

4    

Item 2.  

Properties  

5    

Item 3.  

Legal Proceedings  

26    

Item 4.  

Mine Safety Disclosures  

26    

Executive Officers of the Registrant [pursuant to
  Instruction 3 to Regulation S-K, Item 401(b)]  

27    

PART II   

Item 5.  

Market for Registrant s Common Equity, Related
  Stockholder Matters and Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities  

30    

Item 6.  

Selected Financial Data  

30    

Item 7.  

Management s Discussion and Analysis of Financial
  Condition and Results of Operations  

30    

Item 7A.  

Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About
  Market Risk  

30    

Item 8.  

Financial Statements and Supplementary Data  

31    

Item 9.  

Changes in and Disagreements With Accountants on
  Accounting and Financial Disclosure  

31    

Item 9A.  

Controls and Procedures  

31    

Item 9B.  

Other Information  

31    

PART III   

Item 10.  

Directors, Executive Officers and Corporate
  Governance  

32     

Item 11.  

Executive Compensation  

32     

Item 12.  

Security Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owners and
  Management and Related Stockholder Matters  

32     

Item 13.  

Certain Relationships and Related Transactions, and
  Director Independence  

33     

Item 14.  

Principal Accounting Fees and Services  

33     

PART IV   

Item 15.  

Exhibits, Financial Statement Schedules  

33     

Financial Section  

34     

Signatures  

115     

Index to Exhibits  

117     

Exhibit 12   Computation of Ratio of Earnings to
  Fixed Charges  

Exhibits 31 and 32   Certifications  

PART I    

    ITEM 1.       BUSINESS     

   Exxon Mobil Corporation was incorporated in the State of
New Jersey in 1882. Divisions and affiliated companies of ExxonMobil operate or
market products in the United States and most other countries of the world.
Their principal business is energy, involving exploration for, and production
of, crude oil and natural gas, manufacture of petroleum products and
transportation and sale of crude oil, natural gas and petroleum products.
ExxonMobil is a major manufacturer and marketer of commodity petrochemicals, including
olefins, aromatics, polyethylene and polypropylene plastics and a wide variety of
specialty products. Affiliates of ExxonMobil conduct extensive research
programs in support of these businesses.    

   Exxon Mobil Corporation has several divisions and hundreds
of affiliates, many with names that include    ExxonMobil   ,    Exxon   ,    Esso,
Mobil    or    XTO   . For convenience and simplicity, in this report the
terms    ExxonMobil, Exxon, Esso, Mobil    and    XTO   , as well as terms
like    Corporation   ,    Company   ,    our   ,    we     and    its   ,
are sometimes used as abbreviated references to specific affiliates or groups
of affiliates. The precise meaning depends on the context in question.    

   Throughout ExxonMobil s businesses, new and ongoing
measures are taken to prevent and minimize the impact of our operations on air,
water and ground. These include a significant investment in refining
infrastructure and technology to manufacture clean fuels, as well as projects
to monitor and reduce nitrogen oxide, sulfur oxide and greenhouse gas
emissions, and expenditures for asset retirement obligations. Using definitions
and guidelines established by the American Petroleum Institute, ExxonMobil s
2015 worldwide environmental expenditures for all such preventative and
remediation steps, including ExxonMobil s share of equity company expenditures,
were $5.6 billion, of which $3.8 billion were included in expenses
with the remainder in capital expenditures. The total cost for such activities
is expected to decrease to approximately $5 billion in 2016 and 2017,
mainly reflecting lower project activity in Canada. Capital expenditures are
expected to account for approximately 30 percent of the total.    

   The energy and petrochemical industries are highly
competitive. There is competition within the industries and also with other
industries in supplying the energy, fuel and chemical needs of both industrial
and individual consumers. The Corporation competes with other firms in the sale
or purchase of needed goods and services in many national and international
markets and employs all methods of competition which are lawful and appropriate
for such purposes.    

   Operating data and industry segment information for the
Corporation are contained in the Financial Section of this report under the
following:  Quarterly Information ,  Note 18: Disclosures about Segments
and Related Information  and  Operating Summary . Information on oil and gas
reserves is contained in the  Oil and Gas Reserves  part of the  Supplemental
Information on Oil and Gas Exploration and Production Activities  portion of
the Financial Section of this report.   

   ExxonMobil has a long standing commitment to the
development of proprietary technology. We have a wide array of research
programs designed to meet the needs identified in each of our business segments.
Information on Company sponsored research and development spending is
contained in  Note 3: Miscellaneous Financial Information  of the
Financial Section of this report. ExxonMobil held approximately 11 thousand
active patents worldwide at the end of 2015. For technology licensed to third
parties, revenues totaled approximately $158 million in 2015. Although
technology is an important contributor to the overall operations and results of
our Company, the profitability of each business segment is not dependent on any
individual patent, trade secret, trademark, license, franchise or concession.   

   The number of regular employees was 73.5 thousand, 75.3 thousand,
and 75.0 thousand at years ended 2015, 2014 and 2013, respectively.
Regular employees are defined as active executive, management, professional,
technical and wage employees who work full time or part time for the
Corporation and are covered by the Corporation s benefit plans and programs.
Regular employees do not include employees of the company operated retail
sites (CORS). The number of CORS employees was 2.1 thousand, 8.4 thousand,
and 9.8 thousand at years ended 2015, 2014 and 2013, respectively. The
decrease in CORS employees reflects the multi year transition of the company operated
retail network in portions of Europe to a more capital efficient Branded
Wholesaler model.     

   Information concerning the source and availability of raw
materials used in the Corporation s business, the extent of seasonality in the
business, the possibility of renegotiation of profits or termination of
contracts at the election of governments and risks attendant to foreign operations
may be found in  Item 1A. Risk Factors  and  Item 2. Properties  in this
report.    

   ExxonMobil maintains a website at exxonmobil.com. Our
annual report on Form 10-K, quarterly reports on Form 10-Q, current
reports on Form 8-K and any amendments to those reports filed or furnished
pursuant to Section 13(a) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 are made
available through our website as soon as reasonably practical after we
electronically file or furnish the reports to the Securities and Exchange
Commission. Also available on the Corporation s website are the Company s
Corporate Governance Guidelines and Code of Ethics and Business Conduct, as
well as the charters of the audit, compensation and nominating committees of
the Board of Directors. Information on our website is not incorporated into
this report.   

1       

ITEM 1A.       RISK FACTORS   

  ExxonMobil s financial and operating
results are subject to a variety of risks inherent in the global oil, gas, and
petrochemical businesses. Many of these risk factors are not within the
Company s control and could adversely affect our business, our financial and
operating results, or our financial condition. These risk factors include:   

   Supply and Demand    

  The oil, gas, and petrochemical businesses are
fundamentally commodity businesses. This means ExxonMobil s operations and
earnings may be significantly affected by changes in oil, gas, and
petrochemical prices and by changes in margins on refined products. Oil, gas,
petrochemical, and product prices and margins in turn depend on local, regional,
and global events or conditions that affect supply and demand for the relevant
commodity. Any material decline in oil or natural gas prices could have a
material adverse effect on certain of the Company s operations, especially in
the Upstream segment, financial condition and proved reserves. On the other
hand, a material increase in oil or natural gas prices could have a material
adverse effect on certain of the Company s operations, especially in the
Downstream and Chemical segments.  

   Economic conditions.    The demand for energy and petrochemicals correlates closely with
general economic growth rates. The occurrence of recessions or other periods of
low or negative economic growth will typically have a direct adverse impact on
our results. Other factors that affect general economic conditions in the world
or in a major region, such as changes in population growth rates, periods of
civil unrest, government austerity programs, or currency exchange rate
fluctuations, can also impact the demand for energy and petrochemicals.
Sovereign debt downgrades, defaults, inability to access debt markets due to
credit or legal constraints, liquidity crises, the breakup or restructuring of
fiscal, monetary, or political systems such as the European Union, and other
events or conditions that impair the functioning of financial markets and
institutions also pose risks to ExxonMobil, including risks to the safety of
our financial assets and to the ability of our partners and customers to
fulfill their commitments to ExxonMobil.   

   Other demand-related factors.    Other factors that may affect the demand for oil, gas,
and petrochemicals, and therefore impact our results, include technological
improvements in energy efficiency; seasonal weather patterns, which affect the
demand for energy associated with heating and cooling; increased
competitiveness of alternative energy sources that have so far generally not
been competitive with oil and gas without the benefit of government subsidies
or mandates; and changes in technology or consumer preferences that alter fuel
choices, such as toward alternative fueled or electric vehicles.   

   Other supply-related factors.    Commodity prices and margins also vary depending on a
number of factors affecting supply. For example, increased supply from the
development of new oil and gas supply sources and technologies to enhance
recovery from existing sources tend to reduce commodity prices to the extent
such supply increases are not offset by commensurate growth in demand.
Similarly, increases in industry refining or petrochemical manufacturing
capacity tend to reduce margins on the affected products. World oil, gas, and
petrochemical supply levels can also be affected by factors that reduce
available supplies, such as adherence by member countries to OPEC production
quotas and the occurrence of wars, hostile actions, natural disasters,
disruptions in competitors  operations, or unexpected unavailability of
distribution channels that may disrupt supplies. Technological change can also
alter the relative costs for competitors to find, produce, and refine oil and
gas and to manufacture petrochemicals.   

   Other market factors.    ExxonMobil s business results are also exposed to
potential negative impacts due to changes in interest rates, inflation,
currency exchange rates, and other local or regional market conditions. We
generally do not use financial instruments to hedge market exposures.   

   Government and Political Factors    

  ExxonMobil s results can be adversely affected by
political or regulatory developments affecting our operations.   

   Access limitations.    A number of countries limit access to their oil and gas resources, or
may place resources off-limits from development altogether. Restrictions on
foreign investment in the oil and gas sector tend to increase in times of high
commodity prices, when national governments may have less need of outside
sources of private capital. Many countries also restrict the import or export
of certain products based on point of origin.   

   Restrictions on doing business.    ExxonMobil is subject to laws and sanctions imposed
by the U.S. or by other jurisdictions where we do business that may prohibit
ExxonMobil or certain of its affiliates from doing business in certain
countries, or restricting the kind of business that may be conducted. Such
restrictions may provide a competitive advantage to competitors who may not be
subject to comparable restrictions.   

   Lack of legal certainty.    Some countries in which we do business lack
well-developed legal systems, or have not yet adopted clear regulatory
frameworks for oil and gas development. Lack of legal certainty exposes our
operations to increased risk of adverse or unpredictable actions by government
officials, and also makes it more difficult for us to enforce our contracts. In
some cases these risks can be partially offset by agreements to arbitrate
disputes in an international forum, but the adequacy of this remedy may still
depend on the local legal system to enforce an award.   

2       

Regulatory and litigation risks.    Even in countries with well-developed legal
systems where ExxonMobil does business, we remain exposed to changes in law
(including changes that result from international treaties and accords) that
could adversely affect our results, such as:   

increases in taxes or government royalty rates
  (including retroactive claims);  

price controls;  

changes in environmental regulations or other laws
  that increase our cost of compliance or reduce or delay available business
  opportunities (including changes in laws related to offshore drilling
  operations, water use, or hydraulic fracturing);  

adoption of regulations mandating the use of
  alternative fuels or uncompetitive fuel components;  

adoption of government payment transparency
  regulations that could require us to disclose competitively sensitive
  commercial information, or that could cause us to violate the non-disclosure
  laws of other countries; and  

government actions to cancel contracts,
  re-denominate the official currency, renounce or default on obligations,
  renegotiate terms unilaterally, or expropriate assets.  

Legal remedies available to compensate us for
expropriation or other takings may be inadequate.   

  We also may be adversely affected by the outcome of
litigation, especially in countries such as the United States in which very
large and unpredictable punitive damage awards may occur, or by government
enforcement proceedings alleging non-compliance with applicable laws or
regulations.   

   Security concerns.    Successful operation of particular facilities or projects may be
disrupted by civil unrest, acts of sabotage or terrorism, and other local
security concerns. Such concerns may require us to incur greater costs for
security or to shut down operations for a period of time.   

   Climate change and greenhouse gas restrictions.    Due to concern over the risk of climate change, a number
of countries have adopted, or are considering the adoption of, regulatory
frameworks to reduce greenhouse gas emissions. These include adoption of cap
and trade regimes, carbon taxes, restrictive permitting, increased efficiency
standards, and incentives or mandates for renewable energy. These requirements
could make our products more expensive, lengthen project implementation times,
and reduce demand for hydrocarbons, as well as shift hydrocarbon demand toward
relatively lower-carbon sources such as natural gas. Current and pending
greenhouse gas regulations may also increase our compliance costs, such as for
monitoring or sequestering emissions.   

   Government sponsorship of alternative energy.    Many governments are providing tax advantages and
other subsidies to support alternative energy sources or are mandating the use
of specific fuels or technologies. Governments are also promoting research into
new technologies to reduce the cost and increase the scalability of alternative
energy sources. We are conducting our own research efforts into alternative
energy, such as through sponsorship of the Global Climate and Energy Project at
Stanford University and research into liquid products from algae and biomass
that can be further converted to transportation fuels. Our future results may
depend in part on the success of our research efforts and on our ability to
adapt and apply the strengths of our current business model to providing the energy
products of the future in a cost-competitive manner. See  Management
Effectiveness  below.   

   Management Effectiveness    

  In addition to external economic and political
factors, our future business results also depend on our ability to manage
successfully those factors that are at least in part within our control. The
extent to which we manage these factors will impact our performance relative to
competition. For projects in which we are not the operator, we depend on the
management effectiveness of one or more co-venturers whom we do not control.   

   Exploration and development program.    Our ability to maintain and grow our oil and gas
production depends on the success of our exploration and development efforts.
Among other factors, we must continuously improve our ability to identify the
most promising resource prospects and apply our project management expertise to
bring discovered resources on line as scheduled and within budget.   

   Project management.    The success of ExxonMobil s Upstream, Downstream, and Chemical
businesses depends on complex, long-term, capital intensive projects. These
projects in turn require a high degree of project management expertise to
maximize efficiency. Specific factors that can affect the performance of major
projects include our ability to: negotiate successfully with joint venturers,
partners, governments, suppliers, customers, or others; model and optimize
reservoir performance; develop markets for project outputs, whether through
long-term contracts or the development of effective spot markets; manage
changes in operating conditions and costs, including costs of third party
equipment or services such as drilling rigs and shipping; prevent, to the
extent possible, and respond effectively to unforeseen technical difficulties
that could delay project startup or cause unscheduled project downtime; and
influence the performance of project operators where ExxonMobil does not
perform that role.   

3       

The term  project  as used in this report can refer to
a variety of different activities and does not necessarily have the same
meaning as in any government payment transparency reports.   

   Operational efficiency.    An important component of ExxonMobil s competitive
performance, especially given the commodity-based nature of many of our
businesses, is our ability to operate efficiently, including our ability to
manage expenses and improve production yields on an ongoing basis. This
requires continuous management focus, including technology improvements, cost
control, productivity enhancements, regular reappraisal of our asset portfolio,
and the recruitment, development, and retention of high caliber employees.   

   Research and development.    To maintain our competitive position, especially in
light of the technological nature of our businesses and the need for continuous
efficiency improvement, ExxonMobil s research and development organizations
must be successful and able to adapt to a changing market and policy
environment, including developing technologies to help reduce greenhouse gas
emissions.   

   Safety, business controls, and environmental risk
management.    Our results depend on
management s ability to minimize the inherent risks of oil, gas, and
petrochemical operations, to control effectively our business activities, and
to minimize the potential for human error. We apply rigorous management systems
and continuous focus to workplace safety and to avoiding spills or other
adverse environmental events. For example, we work to minimize spills through a
combined program of effective operations integrity management, ongoing
upgrades, key equipment replacements, and comprehensive inspection and
surveillance. Similarly, we are implementing cost-effective new technologies
and adopting new operating practices to reduce air emissions, not only in
response to government requirements but also to address community priorities.
We also maintain a disciplined framework of internal controls and apply a
controls management system for monitoring compliance with this framework.
Substantial liabilities and other adverse impacts could result if our
management systems and controls do not function as intended. The ability to
insure against such risks is limited by the capacity of the applicable
insurance markets, which may not be sufficient.   

  Business risks also include the risk of cybersecurity
breaches. If our systems for protecting against cybersecurity risks prove not
to be sufficient, ExxonMobil could be adversely affected such as by having its
business systems compromised, its proprietary information altered, lost or
stolen, or its business operations disrupted.   

   Preparedness.   
Our operations may be disrupted by severe weather events, natural disasters,
human error, and similar events. For example, hurricanes may damage our
offshore production facilities or coastal refining and petrochemical plants in
vulnerable areas. Our facilities are designed, constructed, and operated to
withstand a variety of extreme climatic and other conditions, with safety
factors built in to cover a number of engineering uncertainties, including
those associated with wave, wind, and current intensity, marine ice flow
patterns, permafrost stability, storm surge magnitude, temperature extremes,
extreme rain fall events, and earthquakes. Our consideration of changing
weather conditions and inclusion of safety factors in design covers the
engineering uncertainties that climate change and other events may potentially
introduce. Our ability to mitigate the adverse impacts of these events depends
in part upon the effectiveness of our robust facility engineering as well as
our rigorous disaster preparedness and response and business continuity
planning.   

  Projections, estimates, and descriptions of
ExxonMobil s plans and objectives included or incorporated in Items 1, 1A, 2, 7
and 7A of this report are forward-looking statements. Actual future results,
including project completion dates, production rates, capital expenditures,
costs, and business plans could differ materially due to, among other things,
the factors discussed above and elsewhere in this report.   

ITEM 1B.                  UNRESOLVED STAFF
COMMENTS    

   None.    

4       

Item 2.       Properties    

    Information with regard to oil and gas
producing activities follows:     

1. Disclosure of Reserves     

    A. Summary of Oil and Gas Reserves at
Year-End 2015     

   The table below summarizes the oil-equivalent proved
reserves in each geographic area and by product type for consolidated
subsidiaries and equity companies. Gas is converted to an oil-equivalent basis
at six million cubic feet per one thousand barrels. The Corporation has
reported proved reserves on the basis of the average of the
first-day-of-the-month price for each month during the last 12-month period. When
crude oil and natural gas prices are in the range seen in early 2016 for an
extended period of time, under the Securities and Exchange Commission s (SEC)
definition of proved reserves, certain quantities of oil and natural gas could
temporarily not qualify as proved reserves. Under the terms of certain
contractual arrangements or government royalty regimes, lower prices can also
increase proved reserves attributable to ExxonMobil. Otherwise, no major
discovery or other favorable or adverse event has occurred since December 31,
2015, that would cause a significant change in the estimated proved reserves as
of that date.    

(1)   South America includes proved
developed reserves of 0.1 million barrels of crude oil and natural gas liquids
and 23 billion cubic feet of natural gas.     

5       

In the preceding reserves information, consolidated subsidiary and
equity company reserves are reported separately. However, the Corporation
operates its business with the same view of equity company reserves as it has
for reserves from consolidated subsidiaries.    

   The Corporation anticipates several projects will come
online over the next few years providing additional production capacity.
However, actual volumes will vary from year to year due to the timing of
individual project start-ups; operational outages; reservoir performance;
performance of enhanced oil recovery projects; regulatory changes; the impact
of fiscal and commercial terms; asset sales; weather events; price effects on
production sharing contracts; changes in the amount and timing of capital
investments that may vary depending on the oil and gas price environment; and
other factors described in Item 1A. Risk Factors.    

   The estimation of proved reserves, which is based on the
requirement of reasonable certainty, is an ongoing process based on rigorous
technical evaluations, commercial and market assessments and detailed analysis
of well and reservoir information such as flow rates and reservoir pressure
declines. Furthermore, the Corporation only records proved reserves for
projects which have received significant funding commitments by management made
toward the development of the reserves. Although the Corporation is reasonably
certain that proved reserves will be produced, the timing and amount recovered
can be affected by a number of factors including completion of development
projects, reservoir performance, regulatory approvals and significant changes
in projections of long-term oil and natural gas price levels. In addition,
proved reserves could be affected by an extended period of low prices which
could reduce the level of the Corporation s capital spending and also impact
our partners  capacity to fund their share of joint projects.   

   When crude oil and natural gas prices are in the range seen
in late 2015 and early 2016 for an extended period of time, under the SEC
definition of proved reserves, certain quantities of oil and natural gas, such
as oil sands operations in Canada and natural gas operations in North America
could temporarily not qualify as proved reserves. Amounts that could be
required to be de-booked as proved reserves on an SEC basis are subject to
being re-booked as proved reserves at some point in the future when price
levels recover, costs decline, or operating efficiencies occur. Under the terms
of certain contractual arrangements or government royalty regimes, lower prices
can also increase proved reserves attributable to ExxonMobil. We do not expect
any temporary changes in reported proved reserves under SEC definitions to
affect the operation of the underlying projects or to alter our outlook for
future production volumes.    

    B. Technologies Used in
Establishing Proved Reserves Additions in 2015     

   Additions to ExxonMobil s proved reserves in 2015 were
based on estimates generated through the integration of available and appropriate
geological, engineering and production data, utilizing well-established
technologies that have been demonstrated in the field to yield repeatable and
consistent results.    

   Data used in these integrated assessments included
information obtained directly from the subsurface via wellbores, such as well
logs, reservoir core samples, fluid samples, static and dynamic pressure information,
production test data, and surveillance and performance information. The data
utilized also included subsurface information obtained through indirect
measurements including high-quality 3-D and 4-D seismic data, calibrated with
available well control information. The tools used to interpret the data
included proprietary seismic processing software, proprietary reservoir
modeling and simulation software, and commercially available data analysis
packages.    

   In some circumstances, where appropriate analog reservoirs
were available, reservoir parameters from these analogs were used to increase
the quality of and confidence in the reserves estimates.    

    C. Qualifications of
Reserves Technical Oversight Group and Internal Controls over Proved Reserves     

   ExxonMobil has a dedicated Global Reserves group that
provides technical oversight and is separate from the operating organization.
Primary responsibilities of this group include oversight of the reserves
estimation process for compliance with Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC)
rules and regulations, review of annual changes in reserves estimates, and the
reporting of ExxonMobil s proved reserves. This group also maintains the
official company reserves estimates for ExxonMobil s proved reserves of crude
and natural gas liquids, bitumen, synthetic oil and natural gas. In addition,
the group provides training to personnel involved in the reserves estimation
and reporting process within ExxonMobil and its affiliates. The Manager of the
Global Reserves group has more than 30 years of experience in reservoir engineering
and reserves assessment and has a degree in Engineering. He is an active member
of the Society of Petroleum Engineers (SPE) and previously served on the SPE
Oil and Gas Reserves Committee. The group is staffed with individuals that have
an average of more than 20 years of technical experience in the petroleum
industry, including expertise in the classification and categorization of
reserves under the SEC guidelines. This group includes individuals who hold
advanced degrees in either Engineering or Geology. Several members of the group
hold professional registrations in their field of expertise, and a member
currently serves on the SPE Oil and Gas Reserves Committee.    

6       

The Global Reserves group maintains a
central database containing the official company reserves estimates.
Appropriate controls, including limitations on database access and update
capabilities, are in place to ensure data integrity within this central
database. An annual review of the system s controls is performed by internal
audit. Key components of the reserves estimation process include technical
evaluations and analysis of well and field performance and a rigorous peer
review. No changes may be made to the reserves estimates in the central
database, including additions of any new initial reserves estimates or
subsequent revisions, unless these changes have been thoroughly reviewed and
evaluated by duly authorized personnel within the operating organization. In
addition, changes to reserves estimates that exceed certain thresholds require
further review and approval of the appropriate level of management within the
operating organization before the changes may be made in the central database.
Endorsement by the Global Reserves group for all proved reserves changes is a
mandatory component of this review process. After all changes are made, reviews
are held with senior management for final endorsement.    

         2.
Proved Undeveloped Reserves     

   At year-end 2015, approximately 6.8 billion oil-equivalent
barrels (GOEB) of ExxonMobil s proved reserves were classified as proved
undeveloped. This represents 27 percent of the 24.8 GOEB reported in proved
reserves. This compares to the 8.8 GOEB of proved undeveloped reserves reported
at the end of 2014. During the year, ExxonMobil conducted development
activities in over 100 fields that resulted in the transfer of approximately
2.7 GOEB from proved undeveloped to proved developed reserves by year-end. The
largest transfers were related to Kearl Expansion project start-up and drilling
activity in the United States. Mainly due to low prices during 2015, the
Corporation reclassified approximately 1 GOEB of proved undeveloped reserves,
primarily natural gas reserves in the United States, which no longer meet the
SEC definition of proved reserves.   

   One of ExxonMobil s requirements for reporting proved
reserves is that management has made significant funding commitments toward the
development of the reserves. ExxonMobil has a disciplined investment strategy
and many major fields require long lead-time in order to be developed.
Development projects typically take two to four years from the time of
recording proved undeveloped reserves to the start of production. However, the
development time for large and complex projects can exceed five years. During
2015, extensions and purchases primarily related to United States
unconventional and Abu Dhabi drilling added approximately 1.7 GOEB of proved
undeveloped reserves. Overall, investments of $19.4 billion were made by the
Corporation during 2015 to progress the development of reported proved
undeveloped reserves, including $17 billion for oil and gas producing
activities and an additional $2.4 billion for other non-oil and gas producing activities
such as the construction of support infrastructure and other related
facilities. These investments represented 76 percent of the $25.4 billion in
total reported Upstream capital and exploration expenditures.    

   Proved undeveloped reserves in Australia, the United
States, Kazakhstan, the Netherlands, Qatar, and Nigeria have remained
undeveloped for five years or more primarily due to constraints on the capacity
of infrastructure, the pace of co-venturer/government funding, as well as the
time required to complete development for very large projects. The Corporation
is reasonably certain that these proved reserves will be produced; however, the
timing and amount recovered can be affected by a number of factors including
completion of development projects, reservoir performance, regulatory
approvals, and significant changes in long-term oil and natural gas price
levels. Of the proved undeveloped reserves that have been reported for five or
more years, 84 percent are contained in the aforementioned countries. The
largest of these is related to LNG/Gas projects in Australia, where
construction of the Gorgon LNG project is under way. In Kazakhstan, the proved
undeveloped reserves are related to the remainder of the initial development of
the offshore Kashagan field which is included in the North Caspian Production
Sharing Agreement and the Tengizchevroil joint venture which includes a
production license in the Tengiz   Korolev field complex. The Tengizchevroil
joint venture is producing, and proved undeveloped reserves will continue to
move to proved developed as approved development phases progress. In the Netherlands,
the Groningen gas field has proved undeveloped reserves related to installation
of future stages of compression. These reserves will move to proved developed
when the additional stages of compression are installed to maintain field
delivery pressure.   

7       

3. Oil and Gas Production, Production
Prices and Production Costs     

    A. Oil and Gas Production     

   The table below summarizes production by
final product sold and by geographic area for the last three years.    

(1)   South America includes natural gas
production available for sale for 2015, 2014 and 2013 of 21 million, 21 million,
and 28 million cubic feet daily, respectively.     

8       

B. Production Prices and Production Costs     

   The table below summarizes average
production prices and average production costs by geographic area and by
product type for the last three years.    

9       

Average production prices have been calculated by using
sales quantities from the Corporation s own production as the divisor. Average
production costs have been computed by using net production quantities for the
divisor. The volumes of crude oil and natural gas liquids (NGL) production used
for this computation are shown in the oil and gas production table in section
3.A. The volumes of natural gas used in the calculation are the production
volumes of natural gas available for sale and are also shown in section 3.A.
The natural gas available for sale volumes are different from those shown in
the reserves table in the  Oil and Gas Reserves  part of the  Supplemental
Information on Oil and Gas Exploration and Production Activities  portion of
the Financial Section of this report due to volumes consumed or flared. Gas is
converted to an oil-equivalent basis at six million cubic feet per one thousand
barrels.    

10       

4. Drilling and Other Exploratory and
Development Activities     

    A. Number of Net Productive and Dry Wells
Drilled     

11       

12       

B. Exploratory and Development Activities Regarding Oil and Gas
Resources Extracted by Mining Technologies     

    Syncrude Operations.      Syncrude is a joint venture established to
recover shallow deposits of oil sands using open-pit mining methods to extract
the crude bitumen, and then upgrade it to produce a high-quality, light (32
degrees API), sweet, synthetic crude oil. Imperial Oil Limited is the owner of
a 25 percent interest in the joint venture. Exxon Mobil Corporation has a 69.6
percent interest in Imperial Oil Limited. In 2015, the company s share of net
production of synthetic crude oil was 58 thousand barrels per day and share of
net acreage was 63 thousand acres in the Athabasca oil sands deposit.    

    Kearl Operations.      Kearl is a joint venture established to
recover shallow deposits of oil sands using open-pit mining methods to extract
the crude bitumen. Imperial Oil Limited holds a 70.96 percent interest in the
joint venture and ExxonMobil Canada Properties holds the other 29.04 percent.
Exxon Mobil Corporation has a 69.6 percent interest in Imperial Oil Limited and
a 100 percent interest in ExxonMobil Canada Properties. Kearl is comprised of
six oil sands leases covering 49 thousand acres in the Athabasca oil sands
deposit.    

   The Kearl project is located approximately 40 miles north
of Fort McMurray, Alberta, Canada. Bitumen is extracted from oil sands produced
from open-pit mining operations, and processed through bitumen extraction and
froth treatment trains. The product, a blend of bitumen and diluent, is shipped
to our refineries and to other third parties. Diluent is natural gas condensate
or other light hydrocarbons added to the crude bitumen to facilitate
transportation by pipeline and rail. During 2015, average net production at
Kearl was 149 thousand barrels per day. The Kearl Expansion project was
completed and started up in 2015, adding additional capacity of 110 thousand
barrels of bitumen per day.    

5. Present
Activities     

    A. Wells Drilling     

B. Review of Principal
Ongoing Activities     

     UNITED STATES      

   ExxonMobil s year-end 2015 acreage holdings totaled 14.0 million
net acres, of     which 1.3
million   net acres were offshore. ExxonMobil was
active in areas onshore and offshore in the lower 48 states and in Alaska    .    

   During
the year, 1,063.2 net exploration and development wells were completed in the
inland lower 48 states. Development activities focused on liquids-rich
opportunities in the onshore U.S., primarily in the Permian Basin of West Texas
and New Mexico and the Bakken oil play in North Dakota and Montana. In addition,
gas development activities continued in the Marcellus Shale of Pennsylvania and
West Virginia and the Utica Shale of Ohio.    

   ExxonMobil s net acreage in the Gulf of Mexico at year-end 2015
was 1.2 million acres. A     total
of 3.5     net development
wells were completed during the year. The deepwater Hadrian South project and
the non-operated Lucius project started up in 2015. ExxonMobil continued
development activities on the     Heidelberg and Julia Phase 1 projects. Offshore California 1.0 net
development well was completed.         

13       

Participation in Alaska production and
development continued with a total of 20.9 net development wells completed.
Development activities continued on the Point Thomson project    .    

     CANADA / SOUTH AMERICA             

    Canada     

    Oil and Gas Operations:           ExxonMobil s
year-end 2015 acreage holdings totaled 6.2 million net acres, of which 1.9
million net acres were offshore. A total of 11.1 net exploration and
development wells were completed during the year. Development activities
continued on the Hebron project during 2015.         

    In Situ Bitumen Operations:             ExxonMobil s year-end 2015 in situ bitumen acreage holdings
totaled 0.7 million net onshore acres. A total of 41.0 net development wells
were completed during the year    .
The Cold Lake Nabiye Expansion project started up in 2015.    

    Argentina     

   ExxonMobil s net acreage totaled 0.9 million onshore acres
at year-end 2015, and there were 1.0 net development wells completed during the
year    .    

     EUROPE      

    Germany     

   A total of 4.8 million net onshore acres were held by
ExxonMobil at year-end 2015, with 0.7 net development wells completed during
the year    .    

    Netherlands     

   ExxonMobil s net interest in licenses totaled approximately
1.5 million acres at year-end 2015, of which 1.2 million acres were onshore. A
total of 3.5 net exploration and development wells were completed during the
year    .    

    Norway     

   ExxonMobil s net interest in licenses at year-end 2015
totaled approximately 0.2 million acres, all offshore. A total of 6.8 net
exploration and development wells were completed in 2015    . The non-operated Aasgard Subsea
Compression project started up in 2015.      

    United Kingdom     

   ExxonMobil s net interest in licenses at
year-end 2015 totaled approximately 0.5 million acres, all offshore. A total of
5.1 net development wells were completed during the year.         

     AFRICA      

    Angola     

   ExxonMobil s net acreage totaled 0.4 million offshore acres
at year-end 2015, with 3.6 net development wells completed during the year. On
Block 15, the Kizomba Satellites Phase 2 project started up in 2015. On Block
32, development activities continued on the Kaombo Split Hub project.         

    Chad     

   ExxonMobil s net year-end 2015 acreage holdings
consisted of 46 thousand onshore acres, with 15.6 net development wells
completed during the year    .    

    Equatorial Guinea     

   ExxonMobil s acreage totaled 0.3 million net offshore acres
at year-end 2015    , with 2.3
net development wells completed during the year. In 2015, ExxonMobil acquired
deepwater acreage in Block EG 06.     

    Nigeria     

   ExxonMobil s net acreage totaled 1.1 million offshore acres
at year-end 2015, with 2.9 net exploration and development wells completed
during the year. In 2015, ExxonMobil acquired deepwater acreage in Block OPL
247. The deepwater Erha North Phase 2 project started up, and development
drilling continued on the deepwater Usan project in 2015.   

14       

ASIA

Azerbaijan     

   At year-end 2015, ExxonMobil s net acreage
totaled 9 thousand offshore acres. A total of 0.9 net development wells were
completed during the year.         

    Indonesia     

   At year-end 2015, ExxonMobil
had 0.5 million net acres, 0.4 million net acres offshore and 0.1 million net
acres onshore, with 3.2 net development wells completed during the year. In
2015, acreage was relinquished in the North Sumatra and Arun fields. The Banyu
Urip onshore central processing facility started up in 2015.         

    Iraq     

   At year-end 2015, ExxonMobil s onshore
acreage was 0.6 million net acres. West Qurna Phase 1 oil field
rehabilitation activities continued during 2015 and     across
the life of this project will include drilling of new wells, working over of
existing wells, and optimization and debottlenecking of existing facilities.     In the Kurdistan Region of Iraq, after
operations were temporarily suspended due to security concerns in the region
during 2014, ExxonMobil resumed its seismic program and exploration drilling in
2015, with 1.6 net exploration wells completed during the year.           

    Kazakhstan     

   ExxonMobil s net acreage   totaled
0.1 million acres onshore and 0.2 million acres offshore at year-end 2015. A
total of 3.7 net development wells were completed during 2015. Following a
brief production period in 2013, Kashagan operations were suspended due to a
leak in the onshore section of the gas pipeline. Working with our partners,
activities are under way to replace both the oil and gas pipelines.         

    Malaysia     

   ExxonMobil has interests in production sharing contracts
covering 0.2 million net acres offshore at year-end 2015. During the year, a
total of 4.0 net development wells were completed.         

    Qatar     

   Through our joint ventures with Qatar Petroleum,
ExxonMobil s net acreage totaled 65 thousand acres offshore at year-end 2015.
ExxonMobil participated in 62.2 million tonnes per year gross liquefied natural
gas capacity and 2.0 billion cubic feet per day of flowing gas capacity at year
end. Development activities continued on the Barzan project    .    

    Republic of Yemen     

   ExxonMobil s net acreage in the Republic of Yemen
production sharing areas totaled 10 thousand acres onshore at year-end 2015.    

Russia     

   ExxonMobil s net acreage holdings in Sakhalin at year-end
2015 were 85 thousand acres, all offshore. A total of 1.5 net development wells
were completed. The Arkutun-Dagi project started up, and development activities
continued on the Odoptu Stage 2 project in 2015.   

   At year-end 2015, ExxonMobil s net acreage in the Rosneft
joint venture agreements for the Kara, Laptev, Chukchi and Black Seas was 63.6
million acres, all offshore. ExxonMobil and Rosneft formed a joint venture to
evaluate the development of tight-oil reserves in western Siberia in 2013. Refer
to the relevant portion of  Note 7: Equity Company Information  of the
Financial Section of this report for additional information on the
Corporation s participation in Rosneft joint venture activities.    

Thailand     

   ExxonMobil s net onshore acreage in Thailand concessions
totaled 21 thousand acres at year-end 2015    .    

United Arab Emirates     

   ExxonMobil s net acreage in the Abu Dhabi offshore Upper
Zakum oil concession was 81 thousand acres at year-end 2015. During the year, a
total of 3.6 net development wells were completed. Development activities
continued on the     Upper Zakum
750 project.    

15       

AUSTRALIA / OCEANIA

Australia     

   ExxonMobil s year-end 2015 acreage holdings totaled 1.5
million net offshore acres. During the year, a total of 3.1 net exploration and
development wells were completed. Construction activities continued on the Gas
Conditioning Plant at Longford.   

   Project construction and commissioning activity for the
co-venturer operated Gorgon liquefied natural gas (LNG) project progressed in
2015. The project consists of a subsea infrastructure for offshore production
and transportation of the gas, a 15.6 million tonnes per year LNG facility and
a 280 million cubic feet per day domestic gas plant located on Barrow Island,
Western Australia.    

    Papua New Guinea     

   A     total of 1.1 million net onshore acres were held by ExxonMobil at
year-end 2015, with 1.5 net development wells completed during the year. The
Papua New Guinea (PNG) LNG integrated development includes gas production and
processing facilities in the southern PNG Highlands, onshore and offshore
pipelines, and a 6.9 million tonnes per year     LNG
facility near Port Moresby    .    

     WORLDWIDE EXPLORATION      

   At year-end 2015, exploration activities were under way in
several areas in which ExxonMobil has no established production operations and
thus are not included above. A total of 12.6 million net acres were held at
year-end 2015 and 4.4     net exploration wells were
completed during the year in these countries    .    

6. Delivery Commitments     

   ExxonMobil sells crude oil and natural gas
from its producing operations under a variety of contractual obligations, some
of which may specify the delivery of a fixed and determinable quantity for
periods longer than one year. ExxonMobil also enters into natural gas sales
contracts where the source of the natural gas used to fulfill the contract can
be a combination of our own production and the spot market. Worldwide, we are
contractually committed to deliver approximately 43 million barrels of oil and
2,800 billion cubic feet of natural gas for the period from 2016 through 2018.
We expect to fulfill the majority of these delivery commitments with production
from our proved developed reserves. Any remaining commitments will be fulfilled
with production from our proved undeveloped reserves and spot market purchases
as necessary.   

16       

7. Oil and Gas Properties, Wells,
Operations and Acreage     

    A. Gross and Net Productive Wells     

There were 35,909 gross and 30,114 net operated wells at
year-end 2015 and 35,446 gross and 29,870 net operated wells at year-end 2014.
The number of wells with multiple completions was 1,266 gross in 2015 and 1,219
gross in 2014.    

   Note: Year-end 2014 consolidated subsidiaries well counts
for gross and net wells in the United States were restated in regards to non-operated
wells.   

17       

B. Gross and Net Developed Acreage           

(1)   Includes developed acreage in South
America of 213 gross and 109 net thousands of acres for 2015 and 213 gross and
109 net thousands of acres for 2014.     

   Separate acreage data for oil and gas are not maintained
because, in many instances, both are produced from the same acreage.    

C. Gross and Net Undeveloped Acreage    

(1)   Includes undeveloped acreage in
South America of 10,634 gross and 4,970 net thousands of acres for 2015 and 9,056
gross and 8,083 net thousands of acres for 2014.    

   ExxonMobil s investment in developed and undeveloped acreage
is comprised of numerous concessions, blocks and leases. The terms and
conditions under which the Corporation maintains exploration and/or production
rights to the acreage are property-specific, contractually defined and vary
significantly from property to property. Work programs are designed to ensure
that the exploration potential of any property is fully evaluated before
expiration. In some instances, the Corporation may elect to relinquish acreage
in advance of the contractual expiration date if the evaluation process is
complete and there is not a business basis for extension. In cases where
additional time may be required to fully evaluate acreage, the Corporation has
generally been successful in obtaining extensions. The scheduled expiration of
leases and concessions for undeveloped acreage over the next three years is not
expected to have a material adverse impact on the Corporation.    

18       

D. Summary of Acreage Terms     

     UNITED STATES      

   Oil and gas exploration and production rights are acquired
from mineral interest owners through a lease. Mineral interest owners include
the Federal and State governments, as well as private mineral interest owners.
Leases typically have an exploration period ranging from one to ten years, and
a production period that normally remains in effect until production ceases.
Under certain circumstances, a lease may be held beyond its exploration term
even if production has not commenced. In some instances regarding private
property, a  fee interest  is acquired where both the surface and the
underlying mineral interests are owned outright.    

     CANADA / SOUTH
AMERICA      

    Canada     

   Exploration licenses or leases in onshore areas are
acquired for varying periods of time with renewals or extensions possible.
These licenses or leases entitle the holder to continue existing licenses or
leases upon completing specified work. In general, these license and lease
agreements are held as long as there is production on the licenses and leases.
Exploration licenses in offshore eastern Canada and the Beaufort Sea are held
by work commitments of various amounts and rentals. They are valid for a
maximum term of nine years. Production licenses in the offshore are valid for
25 years, with rights of extension for continued production. Significant
discovery licenses in the offshore, relating to currently undeveloped
discoveries, do not have a definite term.    

    Argentina     

   The Federal Hydrocarbon Law was amended in December 2014.
The onshore concession terms granted prior to the amendment are up to six
years, divided into three potential exploration periods, with an optional
extension for up to one year depending on the classification of the area.
Pursuant to the amended law, the production term for a conventional production
concession would be 25 years, and 35 years for an unconventional concession,
with unlimited ten-year extensions possible, once a field has been developed.    

     EUROPE      

    Germany     

   Exploration concessions are granted for an initial maximum
period of five years, with an unlimited number of extensions of up to three
years each. Extensions are subject to specific, minimum work commitments.
Production licenses are normally granted for 20 to 25 years with multiple
possible extensions as long as there is production on the license.    

    Netherlands     

   Under the Mining Law, effective January 1, 2003,
exploration and production licenses for both onshore and offshore areas are
issued for a period as explicitly defined in the license. The term is based on
the period of time necessary to perform the activities for which the license is
issued. License conditions are stipulated in the license and are based on the
Mining Law.    

   Production rights granted prior to January 1, 2003, remain
subject to their existing terms, and differ slightly for onshore and offshore
areas. Onshore production licenses issued prior to 1988 were indefinite; from
1988 they were issued for a period as explicitly defined in the license,
ranging from 35 to 45 years. Offshore production licenses issued before 1976
were issued for a fixed period of 40 years; from 1976 they were again issued
for a period as explicitly defined in the license, ranging from 15 to 40 years.

Norway     

   Licenses issued prior to 1972 were for an initial period of
six years and an extension period of 40 years, with relinquishment of at least
one-fourth of the original area required at the end of the sixth year and
another one-fourth at the end of the ninth year. Licenses issued between 1972
and 1997 were for an initial period of up to six years (with extension of the
initial period of one year at a time up to ten years after 1985), and an
extension period of up to 30 years, with relinquishment of at least one-half of
the original area required at the end of the initial period. Licenses issued
after July 1, 1997, have an initial period of up to ten years and a normal
extension period of up to 30 years or in special cases of up to 50 years, and
with relinquishment of at least one-half of the original area required at the
end of the initial period.   

19       

United
Kingdom     

   Acreage terms are fixed by the government and are
periodically changed. For example, many of the early licenses issued under the
first four licensing rounds provided for an initial term of six years with
relinquishment of at least one-half of the original area at the end of the
initial term, subject to extension for a further 40 years. At the end of any
such 40-year term, licenses may continue in producing areas until cessation of
production; or licenses may continue in development areas for periods agreed on
a case-by-case basis until they become producing areas; or licenses terminate
in all other areas. The licensing regime was last updated in 2002, and the
majority of licenses issued have an initial term of four years with a second
term extension of four years and a final term of 18 years with a mandatory
relinquishment of 50 percent of the acreage after the initial term and of all
acreage that is not covered by a development plan at the end of the second term.

AFRICA      

    Angola     

   Exploration and production activities are governed by
production sharing agreements with an initial exploration term of four years
and an optional second phase of two to three years. The production period is
for 25 years, and agreements generally provide for a negotiated extension.    

    Chad     

   Exploration permits are issued for a period of five years,
and are renewable for one or two further five-year periods. The terms and conditions
of the permits, including relinquishment obligations, are specified in a
negotiated convention. The production term is for 30 years and may be extended
up to 50 years at the discretion of the government.    

    Equatorial Guinea     

   Exploration, development and production activities are
governed by production sharing contracts (PSCs) negotiated with the State
Ministry of Mines, Industry and Energy. A new PSC was signed in 2015; the
initial exploration period is five years for oil and gas, with multi-year
extensions available at the discretion of the Ministry and limited
relinquishments in the absence of commercial discoveries. The production period
for crude oil ranges from 25 to 30 years, while the production period for
natural gas ranges from 25 to 50 years.    

    Nigeria     

   Exploration and production activities in the deepwater
offshore areas are typically governed by production sharing contracts (PSCs)
with the national oil company, the Nigerian National Petroleum Corporation
(NNPC). NNPC typically holds the underlying Oil Prospecting License (OPL) and
any resulting Oil Mining Lease (OML). The terms of the PSCs are generally 30
years, including a ten-year exploration period (an initial exploration phase
that can be divided into multiple optional periods) covered by an OPL. Upon
commercial discovery, an OPL may be converted to an OML. Partial relinquishment
is required under the PSC at the end of the ten-year exploration period, and
OMLs have a 20-year production period that may be extended.    

   Some exploration activities are carried out in deepwater by
joint ventures with local companies holding interests in an OPL. OPLs in
deepwater offshore areas are valid for ten years, while in all other areas the
licenses are for five years. Demonstrating a commercial discovery is the basis
for conversion of an OPL to an OML.    

   OMLs granted prior to the 1969 Petroleum Act (i.e., under
the Mineral Oils Act 1914, repealed by the 1969 Petroleum Act) were for 30
years onshore and 40 years in offshore areas and have been renewed, effective
December 1, 2008, for a further period of 20 years, with a further renewal
option of 20 years. Operations under these pre-1969 OMLs are conducted under a
joint venture agreement with NNPC rather than a PSC. Commercial terms
applicable to the existing joint venture oil production are defined by the
Petroleum Profits Tax Act.    

   OMLs granted under the 1969 Petroleum Act, which include
all deepwater OMLs, have a maximum term of 20 years without distinction for
onshore or offshore location and are renewable, upon 12 months  written notice,
for another period of 20 years. OMLs not held by NNPC are also subject to a
mandatory 50-percent relinquishment after the first ten years of their duration.

20       

ASIA

Azerbaijan     

   The production sharing agreement (PSA) for the development
of the Azeri-Chirag-Gunashli field is established for an initial period of 30
years starting from the PSA execution date in 1994.    

   Other exploration and production activities are governed by
PSAs negotiated with the national oil company of Azerbaijan. The exploration
period consists of three or four years with the possibility of a one to
three-year extension. The production period, which includes development, is for
25 years or 35 years with the possibility of one or two five-year extensions.    

    Indonesia     

   Exploration and production activities in Indonesia are
generally governed by cooperation contracts, usually in the form of a
production sharing contract (PSC), negotiated with BPMIGAS, a government agency
established in 2002 to manage upstream oil and gas activities. In 2012,
Indonesia s Constitutional Court ruled certain articles of law relating to
BPMIGAS to be unconstitutional, but stated that all existing PSCs signed with
BPMIGAS should remain in force until their expiry, and the functions and duties
previously performed by BPMIGAS are to be carried out by the relevant Ministry
of the Government of Indonesia until the promulgation of a new oil and gas law.
By presidential decree, SKKMIGAS became the interim successor to BPMIGAS. The
current PSCs have an exploration period of six years, which can be extended up
to 10 years, and an exploitation period of 20 years. PSCs generally require the
contractor to relinquish 10 percent to 20 percent of the contract area after
three years and generally allow the contractor to retain no more than 50
percent to 80 percent of the original contract area after six years, depending
on the acreage and terms.    

    Iraq     

   Development and production activities in the state-owned
oil and gas fields are governed by contracts with regional oil companies of the
Iraqi Ministry of Oil. An ExxonMobil affiliate entered into a contract with
South Oil Company of the Iraqi Ministry of Oil for the rights to participate in
the development and production activities of the West Qurna Phase I oil
and gas field effective March 1, 2010. The term of the contract is 20 years
with the right to extend for five years. The contract provides for cost
recovery plus per-barrel fees for incremental production above specified levels.

Exploration and production activities in the Kurdistan
Region of Iraq are governed by production sharing contracts (PSCs) negotiated
with the regional government of Kurdistan in 2011. The exploration term is for
five years, with extensions available as provided by the PSCs and at the
discretion of the regional government of Kurdistan. The production period is 20
years with the right to extend for five years.    

    Kazakhstan     

   Onshore exploration and production activities are governed
by the production license, exploration license and joint venture agreements
negotiated with the Republic of Kazakhstan. Existing production operations have
a 40-year production period that commenced in 1993.    

   Offshore exploration and production activities are governed
by a production sharing agreement negotiated with the Republic of Kazakhstan.
The exploration period is six years followed by separate appraisal periods for
each discovery. The production period for each discovery, which includes
development, is for 20 years from the date of declaration of commerciality with
the possibility of two ten-year extensions.    

    Malaysia     

   Production activities are governed by production sharing
contracts (PSCs) negotiated with the national oil company. The PSCs have terms
ranging up to 29 years. All extensions are subject to the national oil
company s prior written approval. The total production period is 15 to 29
years, depending on the provisions of the respective contract.    

    Qatar     

   The State of Qatar grants gas production development
project rights to develop and supply gas from the offshore North Field to
permit the economic development and production of gas reserves sufficient to
satisfy the gas and LNG sales obligations of these projects.    

    Republic of Yemen     

   The Jannah production sharing agreement has a development
period extending 20 years from first commercial declaration, which was made in
June 1995. Due to force majeure events, the development period has been
extended beyond its original expiration date by an additional 400 days, with
the possibility of further extensions due to ongoing force majeure events.   

21       

Russia     

   Terms for ExxonMobil s Sakhalin acreage are fixed by the
production sharing agreement (PSA) that became effective in 1996 between the
Russian government and the Sakhalin-1 consortium, of which ExxonMobil is the
operator. The term of the PSA is 20 years from the Declaration of
Commerciality, which would be 2021. The term may be extended thereafter in
ten-year increments as specified in the PSA.   

   Exploration and production activities in the Kara, Laptev,
Chukchi and Black Seas are governed by joint venture agreements concluded with
Rosneft in 2013 and 2014 that cover certain of Rosneft s offshore licenses. The
Kara Sea licenses covered by the joint venture agreements concluded in 2013
extend through 2040 and include an exploration period through 2020. Additional
licenses in the Kara, Laptev and Chukchi Seas covered by the joint venture
agreements concluded in 2014 extend through 2043 and include an exploration
period through 2023. The Kara, Laptev and Chukchi Sea licenses require
development plan submission within eight years of a discovery and development
activities within five years of plan approval. The Black Sea exploration
license extends through 2017 and a discovery is the basis for obtaining a
license for production. Refer to the relevant portion of  Note 7: Equity
Company Information  of the Financial Section of this report for additional
information on the Corporation s participation in Rosneft joint venture
activities.    

    Thailand     

   The Petroleum Act of 1971 allows production under
ExxonMobil s concession for 30 years with a ten-year extension at terms
generally prevalent at the time.    

    United Arab Emirates     

   An interest in the development and production activities of
the Upper Zakum field, a major offshore field, was acquired effective as of
January 2006, for a term expiring March 2026, and in 2013 the governing
agreements were extended to 2041.    

     AUSTRALIA / OCEANIA      

    Australia     

   Exploration and production activities conducted offshore in
Commonwealth waters are governed by Federal legislation. Exploration permits
are granted for an initial term of six years with two possible five-year
renewal periods. Retention leases may be granted for resources that are not
commercially viable at the time of application, but are expected to become
commercially viable within 15 years. These are granted for periods of five
years and renewals may be requested. Prior to July 1998, production licenses were
granted initially for 21 years, with a further renewal of 21 years and
thereafter  indefinitely , i.e., for the life of the field. Effective from July
1998, new production licenses are granted  indefinitely . In each case, a
production license may be terminated if no production operations have been
carried on for five years.    

    Papua New Guinea     

   Exploration and production activities are governed by the
Oil and Gas Act. Petroleum Prospecting licenses are granted for an initial term
of six years with a five-year extension possible (an additional extension of
three years is possible in certain circumstances). Generally, a 50-percent
relinquishment of the license area is required at the end of the initial
six-year term, if extended. Petroleum Development licenses are granted for an
initial 25-year period. An extension of up to 20 years may be granted at the
Minister s discretion. Petroleum Retention licenses may be granted for gas
resources that are not commercially viable at the time of application, but may
become commercially viable within the maximum possible retention time of 15
years. Petroleum Retention licenses are granted for five-year terms, and may be
extended, at the Minister s discretion, twice for the maximum retention time of
15 years. Extensions of Petroleum Retention licenses may be for periods of less
than one year, renewable annually, if the Minister considers at the time of
extension that the resources could become commercially viable in less than five
years.    

22       

Information with regard to the Downstream
segment follows:     

   ExxonMobil s Downstream segment manufactures and sells
petroleum products. The refining and supply operations encompass a global
network of manufacturing plants, transportation systems, and distribution
centers that provide a range of fuels, lubricants and other products and
feedstocks to our customers around the world.    

    Refining Capacity At
Year-End 2015       (1)    

(1)   Capacity data is based on
100 percent of rated refinery process unit stream-day capacities under
normal operating conditions, less the impact of shutdowns for regular repair
and maintenance activities, averaged over an extended period of time. The
listing excludes refineries owned through cost companies in Japan and New
Zealand, and the Laffan Refinery in Qatar for which results are reported in the
Upstream segment.    

    (2)   Thousands of barrels per day (KBD).
ExxonMobil share reflects 100 percent of atmospheric distillation capacity
in operations of ExxonMobil and majority-owned subsidiaries. For companies
owned 50 percent or less, ExxonMobil share is the greater of ExxonMobil s
interest or that portion of distillation capacity normally available to
ExxonMobil.     

23       

The marketing operations
sell products and services throughout the world through our    Exxon   ,    Esso    
and    Mobil     brands.   

    Retail Sites At Year-End 2015    

24       

Information with regard to the Chemical
segment follows:     

   ExxonMobil s Chemical segment manufactures and sells
petrochemicals. The Chemical business supplies olefins, polyolefins, aromatics,
and a wide variety of other petrochemicals.    

    Chemical Complex Capacity At Year-End 2015
      (1)(2)            

(1)   Capacity for ethylene, polyethylene,
polypropylene and paraxylene in millions of metric tons per year.     

    (2)   Capacity reflects 100 percent
for operations of ExxonMobil and majority owned subsidiaries. For
companies owned 50 percent or less, capacity is ExxonMobil s interest. The
listing excludes cost company capacity in Japan.     

25       

Item 3.       Legal
Proceedings    

   As
reported in the Corporation s Form 10-Q for the third quarter of 2015,
following ExxonMobil Oil Corporation s (EMOC) self-reporting of an air emission
event at the ExxonMobil Beaumont Chemical Plant, the Texas Commission on
Environmental Quality (TCEQ) notified EMOC on September 17, 2015, that it was
seeking a penalty of $150,000 for exceeding provisions of the Texas
Administrative Code and the Texas Health and Safety Code. On December 15, 2015,
the TCEQ agreed with EMOC on the duration of the event, and the parties agreed
to an administrative penalty of $50,000, of which $25,000 was paid to the TCEQ
on January 7, 2016. The balance will be paid for a Supplemental Environmental Project
upon endorsement by the TCEQ.   

   Refer to the relevant portions of  Note 16: Litigation
and Other Contingencies  of the Financial Section of this report for additional
information on legal proceedings.    

   Item 4.       MINE SAFETY DISCLOSURES   

  Not applicable.   

_______________________  

26       

Executive Officers of the Registrant [pursuant to
Instruction 3 to Regulation S-K, Item 401(b)]   

Rex W. Tillerson   

Chairman of the Board   

Held current title since:  

January 1, 2006  

Age: 63  

Mr. Rex W. Tillerson became a Director and President of Exxon
  Mobil Corporation on March 1, 2004, and was President through
  December 31, 2015. He became Chairman of the Board and Chief Executive
  Officer on January 1, 2006, positions he still holds as of the filing
  date.  

Mark W. Albers   

Senior Vice President   

Held current title since:  

April 1, 2007  

Age: 59  

Mr. Mark W. Albers became Senior Vice President of Exxon
  Mobil Corporation on April 1, 2007, a position he still holds as of
  this filing date.  

Michael J. Dolan   

Senior Vice President   

Held current title since:  

April 1, 2008  

Age: 62  

Mr. Michael J. Dolan became Senior Vice President of Exxon
  Mobil Corporation on April 1, 2008, a position he still holds as of
  this filing date.  

Andrew P. Swiger   

Senior Vice President   

Held current title since:  

April 1, 2009  

Age: 59  

Mr. Andrew P. Swiger became Senior Vice President of Exxon
  Mobil Corporation on April 1, 2009, a position he still holds as of
  this filing date.  

S. Jack Balagia   

Vice President and General Counsel   

Held current title since:  

March 1, 2010  

Age: 64  

Mr. S. Jack Balagia became Vice President and General Counsel of
  Exxon Mobil Corporation on March 1, 2010, positions he still holds
  as of this filing date.   

27       

Neil A. Chapman   

Vice President   

Held current title since:  

January
  1, 2015  

Age: 53  

Mr. Neil A. Chapman was President of ExxonMobil
  Global Services Company April 4, 2007   March 31, 2011. He was Senior Vice
  President, ExxonMobil Chemical Company April 1, 2011   December 31, 2014. He
  became President of ExxonMobil Chemical Company and Vice President of Exxon
  Mobil Corporation on January 1, 2015, positions he still holds as of this
  filing date.  

William M. Colton   

Vice President   Corporate Strategic Planning   

Held current title since:  

February 1, 2009  

Age: 62  

Mr. William M. Colton became Vice President   Corporate Strategic
  Planning of Exxon Mobil Corporation on February 1, 2009, a position
  he still holds as of this filing date.  

Bradley W. Corson   

Vice President   

Held current
  title since:  

March
  1, 2015  

Age: 54  

Mr. Bradley W.
  Corson was Regional Vice President, Europe/Caspian for ExxonMobil Production
  Company May 1, 2009   April 30, 2014. He was Vice President, ExxonMobil
  Upstream Ventures May 1, 2014   February 28, 2015. He became President of ExxonMobil
  Upstream Ventures and Vice President of Exxon Mobil Corporation on March 1,
  2015, positions he still holds as of this filing date.   

Neil W. Duffin   

President, ExxonMobil
  Development Company   

Held current title since:  

April
  13, 2007  

Age: 59  

Mr. Neil W.
  Duffin became President of ExxonMobil Development Company on
  April 13, 2007, a position he still holds as of this filing date.  

Robert S. Franklin   

Vice President   

Held current title since:  

May
  1, 2009  

Age: 58  

Mr. Robert S.
  Franklin was President of ExxonMobil Upstream Ventures and Vice President of
  Exxon Mobil Corporation May 1, 2009   February 28, 2013. He became President
  of ExxonMobil Gas   Power Marketing Company and Vice President of Exxon
  Mobil Corporation on March 1, 2013, positions he still holds as of this
  filing date.  

Stephen M. Greenlee   

Vice
  President   

Held current title since:  

September
  1, 2010  

Age: 58  

Mr. Stephen M.
  Greenlee became President of ExxonMobil Exploration Company and Vice
  President of Exxon Mobil Corporation on September 1, 2010,
  positions he still holds as of this filing date.  

Alan J. Kelly   

Vice
  President   

Held current title since:  

December
  1, 2007  

Age: 58  

Mr. Alan J. Kelly became President of
  ExxonMobil Lubricants   Petroleum Specialties Company and Vice
  President of Exxon Mobil Corporation on December 1, 2007. On
  February 1, 2012, the businesses of ExxonMobil Lubricants  
  Petroleum Specialties Company and ExxonMobil Fuels Marketing Company were
  consolidated and Mr. Kelly became President of the combined ExxonMobil Fuels,
  Lubricants   Specialties Marketing Company and Vice President of Exxon
  Mobil Corporation, positions he still holds as of this filing date.  

28       

David S. Rosenthal   

Vice President and Controller   

Held current title since:  

October 1,
  2008 (Vice President)  
    September
  1, 2014 (Controller)  

Age: 59  

Mr. David S. Rosenthal was Vice President
    Investor Relations and Secretary of Exxon Mobil Corporation
  October 1, 2008   August 31, 2014. He became Vice President and
  Controller of Exxon Mobil Corporation on September 1, 2014, positions he
  still holds as of this filing date.  

Robert N. Schleckser   

Vice President and Treasurer   

Held current title since:  

May
  1, 2011  

Age: 59  

Mr. Robert N. Schleckser was Assistant
  Treasurer of Exxon Mobil Corporation February 1, 2009  
  April 30, 2011. He became Vice President and Treasurer of Exxon
  Mobil Corporation on May 1, 2011, positions he still holds as of
  this filing date.  

James M. Spellings, Jr.   

Vice President and General Tax Counsel   

Held current title since:  

March
  1, 2010  

Age: 54  

Mr. James M. Spellings, Jr. became Vice
  President and General Tax Counsel of Exxon Mobil Corporation on March 1,
  2010, positions he still holds as of this filing date.  

Thomas R. Walters   

Vice President   

Held current title since:  

April
  1, 2009  

Age: 61  

Mr. Thomas R. Walters was President of ExxonMobil
  Gas   Power Marketing Company and Vice President of Exxon Mobil
  Corporation April 1, 2009   February 28, 2013. He became President of
  ExxonMobil Production Company and Vice President of Exxon Mobil Corporation
  on March 1, 2013, positions he still holds as of this filing date.  

Dennis G. Wascom   

Vice President   

Held current title since:  

August
  1, 2014  

Age: 59  

Mr. Dennis G. Wascom was Director, Refining
  Americas, ExxonMobil Refining   Supply Company April 1, 2009   June 30,
  2013. He was Director, Refining North America, ExxonMobil Refining  
  Supply Company July 1, 2013   July 31, 2014. He became President of
  ExxonMobil Refining   Supply Company and Vice President of Exxon Mobil
  Corporation on August 1, 2014, positions he still holds as of this filing
  date.  

Jeffrey J. Woodbury   

Vice President   Investor Relations and
  Secretary   

Held current title since:  

July
  1, 2011 (Vice President)  
    September
  1, 2014 (Secretary)  

Age: 55  

Mr. Jeffrey J. Woodbury was Executive Vice President
  of ExxonMobil Development Company April 1, 2009   June 30, 2011. He was Vice
  President, Safety, Security, Health and Environment of Exxon Mobil
  Corporation July 1, 2011   August 31, 2014. He became Vice President  
  Investor Relations and Secretary of Exxon Mobil Corporation on September 1,
  2014, positions he still holds as of this filing date.  

Officers are generally elected by the Board of
Directors at its meeting on the day of each annual election of directors, with
each such officer serving until a successor has been elected and qualified.   

29       

PART II    

    Item 5.       Market for Registrant s Common Equity, Related
Stockholder Matters and Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities    

   Reference is made to the  Quarterly Information  portion of
the Financial Section of this report.    

Note 1 - On August 1, 2000, the Corporation announced its
intention to resume purchases of shares of its common stock for the treasury
both to offset shares issued in conjunction with company benefit plans and
programs and to gradually reduce the number of shares outstanding. The
announcement did not specify an amount or expiration date. The Corporation has
continued to purchase shares since this announcement and to report purchased
volumes in its quarterly earnings releases. In its most recent earnings release
dated February 2, 2016, the Corporation stated it will continue to acquire
shares to offset dilution in conjunction with benefit plans and programs, but
does not plan on making purchases to reduce shares outstanding.   

    Item 6.       Selected Financial
Data    

Item 7.       Management s Discussion and Analysis of
Financial Condition and Results of Operations    

   Reference is made to the section entitled  Management s
Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations  in
the Financial Section of this report.   

    Item 7A.    Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About
Market Risk    

   Reference is made to the section entitled  Market Risks,
Inflation and Other Uncertainties , excluding the part entitled  Inflation and
Other Uncertainties,  in the Financial Section of this report. All statements
other than historical information incorporated in this Item 7A are
forward-looking statements. The actual impact of future market changes could
differ materially due to, among other things, factors discussed in this report.

30       

Item 8.       Financial
Statements and Supplementary Data   

  Reference is made to the following in the Financial
Section of this report:    

Consolidated financial statements, together with the
  report thereon of PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP dated February 24, 2016,
  beginning with the section entitled  Report of Independent Registered Public
  Accounting Firm  and continuing through  Note 19: Income, Sales-Based
  and Other Taxes    

Quarterly Information  (unaudited);   

Supplemental Information on Oil and Gas Exploration
  and Production Activities  (unaudited); and  

Frequently Used Terms  (unaudited).   

Financial Statement Schedules have been omitted
because they are not applicable or the required information is shown in the
consolidated financial statements or notes thereto.  

    Item 9.       Changes in and Disagreements With Accountants
on Accounting and Financial Disclosure    

   None.   

    Item 9A.    Controls and Procedures    

    Management s Evaluation of Disclosure
Controls and Procedures     

   As indicated in the certifications in Exhibit 31 of this
report, the Corporation s Chief Executive Officer, Principal Financial Officer
and Principal Accounting Officer have evaluated the Corporation s disclosure
controls and procedures as of December 31, 2015. Based on that
evaluation, these officers have concluded that the Corporation s disclosure
controls and procedures are effective in ensuring that information required to
be disclosed by the Corporation in the reports that it files or submits under
the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, is accumulated and
communicated to them in a manner that allows for timely decisions regarding
required disclosures and are effective in ensuring that such information is
recorded, processed, summarized and reported within the time periods specified
in the Securities and Exchange Commission s rules and forms.    

    Management s Report on
Internal Control Over Financial Reporting     

   Management, including the Corporation s Chief Executive
Officer, Principal Financial Officer and Principal Accounting Officer, is
responsible for establishing and maintaining adequate internal control over the
Corporation s financial reporting. Management conducted an evaluation of the
effectiveness of internal control over financial reporting based on criteria
established in    Internal Control - Integrated Framework (2013)    issued by
the Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of the Treadway Commission. Based on
this evaluation, management concluded that Exxon Mobil Corporation s internal
control over financial reporting was effective as of December 31, 2015.    

   PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP, an independent registered
public accounting firm, audited the effectiveness of the Corporation s internal
control over financial reporting as of December 31, 2015, as stated in
their report included in the Financial Section of this report.    

    Changes in Internal Control
Over Financial Reporting     

   There were no changes during the Corporation s last fiscal
quarter that materially affected, or are reasonably likely to materially
affect, the Corporation s internal control over financial reporting.    

    Item 9B.     Other Information    

   None.   

31       

PART
III   

   Item 10.     Directors, Executive Officers and Corporate
Governance   

  Incorporated by reference to the following from the
registrant s definitive proxy statement for the 2016 annual meeting of
shareholders (the  2016 Proxy Statement ):   

The section entitled  Election of Directors   

The portion entitled  Section 16(a) Beneficial
  Ownership Reporting Compliance  of the section entitled  Director and
  Executive Officer Stock Ownership   

The portions entitled  Director Qualifications  and
   Code of Ethics and Business Conduct  of the section entitled  Corporate
  Governance  and  

The  Audit Committee  portion and the membership
  table of the portion entitled  Board Meetings and Committees; Annual Meeting
  Attendance  of the section entitled  Corporate Governance .  

Item 11.     Executive Compensation    

   Incorporated by reference to the sections entitled
 Director Compensation,   Compensation Committee Report,   Compensation
Discussion and Analysis  and  Executive Compensation Tables  of the
registrant s 2016 Proxy Statement.    

    Item 12.     Security Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owners
and Management and Related Stockholder Matters    

   The information required under Item 403 of Regulation S-K
is incorporated by reference to the sections  Director and Executive Officer
Stock Ownership  and  Certain Beneficial Owners  of the registrant s 2016 Proxy
Statement.    

Equity Compensation Plan Information   

(a)    

(b)    

(c)    

Number of Securities   

Weighted-   

Remaining Available    

Average   

for Future Issuance   

Number of Securities   

Exercise Price    

Under Equity   

to be Issued Upon    

of Outstanding   

Compensation    

Exercise of   

Options,    

Plans [Excluding   

Outstanding Options,    

Warrants and    

Securities Reflected    

Plan
  Category   

Warrants and Rights   

Rights   

in Column (a)]   

Equity
  compensation plans approved by security holders  

31,090,370   

(1)   

-  

100,899,852   

(2)(3)   

Equity
  compensation plans not approved by security holders  

-  

-  

-  

Total  

31,090,370   

-  

100,899,852   

(1)   The number of restricted stock units
to be settled in shares.     

    (2)   Available shares can be granted in
the form of restricted stock, options, or other stock-based awards. Includes
100,324,152 shares available for award under the 2003 Incentive Program and 575,700
shares available for award under the 2004 Non-Employee Director Restricted
Stock Plan.     

    (3)   Under the 2004 Non-Employee Director
Restricted Stock Plan approved by shareholders in May 2004, and the related
standing resolution adopted by the Board, each non-employee director automatically
receives 8,000 shares of restricted stock when first elected to the Board and,
if the director remains in office, an additional 2,500 restricted shares each
following year. While on the Board, each non-employee director receives the
same cash dividends on restricted shares as a holder of regular common stock,
but the director is not allowed to sell the shares. The restricted shares may
be forfeited if the director leaves the Board early.     

32       

Item 13.     Certain Relationships
and Related Transactions, and Director Independence    

   Incorporated by reference to the portions entitled  Related
Person Transactions and Procedures  and  Director Independence  of the section
entitled  Corporate Governance  of the registrant s 2016 Proxy Statement.    

    Item 14.     Principal Accounting
Fees and Services    

   Incorporated by reference to the portion entitled  Audit
Committee  of the section entitled  Corporate Governance  and the section
entitled  Ratification of Independent Auditors  of the registrant s 2016 Proxy
Statement.    

PART IV    

    Item 15.     Exhibits, Financial
Statement Schedules    

   (a)       (1) and
(2) Financial Statements:    

              See Table of Contents
of the Financial Section of this report.    

   (a)       (3)
Exhibits:    

              See Index to Exhibits
of this report.    

33       

FINANCIAL SECTION   

TABLE OF CONTENTS   

Business Profile  

35   

Financial Summary  

36   

Frequently Used Terms  

37   

Quarterly Information  

39   

Management s Discussion and Analysis
  of Financial Condition   
    and Results of Operations  

Functional Earnings  

40   

Forward-Looking Statements  

40   

Overview  

40   

Business Environment and Risk
  Assessment  

41   

Review of 2015 and 2014 Results  

44   

Liquidity and Capital Resources  

48   

Capital and Exploration Expenditures  

53   

Taxes  

53   

Environmental Matters  

54   

Market Risks, Inflation and Other
  Uncertainties  

54   

Recently Issued Accounting
  Standards                                                               

56   

Critical Accounting Estimates  

56   

Management s Report on Internal
  Control Over Financial Reporting  

61   

Report of Independent Registered
  Public Accounting Firm  

62   

Consolidated Financial Statements  

Statement of Income  

63   

Statement of Comprehensive Income  

64   

Balance Sheet  

65   

Statement of Cash Flows  

66   

Statement of Changes in Equity  

67   

Notes to Consolidated Financial
  Statements  

1. Summary of Accounting
  Policies  

68   

2. Accounting Changes  

71   

3. Miscellaneous
  Financial Information  

71   

4. Other Comprehensive
  Income Information  

72   

5. Cash Flow Information  

73   

6. Additional Working
  Capital Information  

73   

7. Equity Company
  Information  

74   

8. Investments, Advances
  and Long-Term Receivables  

75   

9. Property, Plant and
  Equipment and Asset Retirement Obligations  

76   

10. Accounting for Suspended
  Exploratory Well Costs  

77   

11. Leased Facilities  

79   

12. Earnings Per Share  

79   

13. Financial Instruments and
  Derivatives  

80   

14. Long-Term Debt  

81   

15. Incentive Program  

82   

16. Litigation and Other Contingencies  

83   

17. Pension and Other Postretirement
  Benefits  

85   

18. Disclosures about Segments and
  Related Information  

93   

19. Income, Sales-Based and Other
  Taxes  

96   

Supplemental Information on Oil and Gas Exploration
  and Production Activities  

99   

Operating Summary  

114  

34       

BUSINESS PROFILE      

See Frequently Used Terms for a definition
and calculation of capital employed and return on average capital employed.    

(1)        
    Gas converted to
oil-equivalent at 6 million cubic feet = 1 thousand barrels.   

   (2)        
    Petroleum product and
chemical prime product sales data reported net of purchases/sales contracts
with the same counterparty.     

   (3)        
    Prime product sales are
total product sales excluding carbon black oil and sulfur. Prime product sales
include ExxonMobil s share of equity company volumes and
finished-product transfers to the Downstream.   

35       

FINANCIAL SUMMARY     

(1)   Sales and other operating revenue
includes sales-based taxes of $22,678 million for 2015, $29,342 million for
2014, $30,589 million for 2013, $32,409 million for 2012 and $33,503 million
for 2011.     

    (2)   Debt net of cash, excluding
restricted cash.     

    (3)   Regular employees are defined as
active executive, management, professional, technical and wage employees who
work full time or part time for the Corporation and are covered by the
Corporation s benefit plans and programs.     

    (4)   CORS employees are employees of
company-operated retail sites.     

36       

FREQUENTLY USED TERMS     

Listed below are definitions of several of
ExxonMobil s key business and financial performance measures. These definitions
are provided to facilitate understanding of the terms and their calculation.    

    Cash Flow From Operations and Asset Sales     

   Cash
flow from operations and asset sales is the sum of the net cash provided by
operating activities and proceeds associated with sales of subsidiaries,
property, plant and equipment, and sales and returns of investments from the
Consolidated Statement of Cash Flows. This cash flow reflects the total sources
of cash from both operating the Corporation s assets and from the divesting of
assets. The Corporation employs a long-standing and regular disciplined review
process to ensure that all assets are contributing to the Corporation s
strategic objectives. Assets are divested when they are no longer meeting these
objectives or are worth considerably more to others. Because of the regular
nature of this activity, we believe it is useful for investors to consider
proceeds associated with asset sales together with cash provided by operating
activities when evaluating cash available for investment in the business and
financing activities, including shareholder distributions.    

Capital Employed     

   Capital
employed is a measure of net investment. When viewed from the perspective of
how the capital is used by the businesses, it includes ExxonMobil s net share
of property, plant and equipment and other assets less liabilities, excluding
both short-term and long-term debt. When viewed from the perspective of the
sources of capital employed in total for the Corporation, it includes
ExxonMobil s share of total debt and equity. Both of these views include
ExxonMobil s share of amounts applicable to equity companies, which the
Corporation believes should be included to provide a more comprehensive measure
of capital employed.    

37       

FREQUENTLY USED TERMS     

Return on
Average Capital Employed     

   Return
on average capital employed (ROCE) is a performance measure ratio. From the
perspective of the business segments, ROCE is annual business segment earnings
divided by average business segment capital employed (average of beginning and
end-of-year amounts). These segment earnings include ExxonMobil s share of
segment earnings of equity companies, consistent with our capital employed
definition, and exclude the cost of financing. The Corporation s total ROCE is
net income attributable to ExxonMobil excluding the after-tax cost of
financing, divided by total corporate average capital employed. The Corporation
has consistently applied its ROCE definition for many years and views it as the
best measure of historical capital productivity in our capital-intensive,
long-term industry, both to evaluate management s performance and to
demonstrate to shareholders that capital has been used wisely over the long
term. Additional measures, which are more cash flow based, are used to make
investment decisions.    

38       

QUARTERLY INFORMATION     

(1)   Petroleum product and chemical prime
product sales data reported net of purchases/sales contracts with the same
counterparty.    

    (2)   Gas converted to oil-equivalent at
6 million cubic feet = 1 thousand barrels.     

    (3)   Prime product sales are total product
sales excluding carbon black oil and sulfur. Prime product sales include
ExxonMobil s share of equity company volumes and finished-product transfers to
the Downstream.    

    (4)   Includes amounts for sales-based
taxes.     

    (5)   Gross profit equals sales and other
operating revenue less estimated costs associated with products sold.     

    (6)   Computed using the average number of
shares outstanding during each period. The sum of the four quarters may not add
to the full year.     

The
price range of ExxonMobil common stock is as reported on the composite tape of
the several U.S. exchanges where ExxonMobil common stock is traded. The
principal market where ExxonMobil common stock (XOM) is traded is the New York
Stock Exchange, although the stock is traded on other exchanges in and
outside the United States.    

   There
were 419,510 registered shareholders of ExxonMobil common stock at
December 31, 2015. At January 31, 2016, the registered shareholders
of ExxonMobil common stock numbered 418,587.    

   On
January 27, 2016, the Corporation declared a $0.73 dividend per common
share, payable March 10, 2016.   

39       

MANAGEMENT S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF
FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS      

References in this discussion to total
corporate earnings mean net income attributable to ExxonMobil (U.S. GAAP) from
the consolidated income statement. Unless otherwise indicated, references to
earnings, Upstream, Downstream, Chemical and Corporate and Financing segment
earnings, and earnings per share are ExxonMobil s share after excluding amounts
attributable to noncontrolling interests.    

FORWARD-LOOKING STATEMENTS     

   Statements
in this discussion regarding expectations, plans and future events or
conditions are forward-looking statements. Actual future financial and
operating results, including demand growth and energy source mix; capacity
increases; production growth and mix; rates of field decline; financing
sources; the resolution of contingencies and uncertain tax
positions; environmental and capital expenditures; could differ materially
depending on a number of factors, such as changes in the supply of and demand
for crude oil, natural gas, and petroleum and petrochemical products and
resulting price impacts; the outcome of commercial negotiations; the impact of fiscal
and commercial terms; political or regulatory events, and other factors
discussed herein and in Item 1A. Risk Factors.    

   The
term  project  as used in this report can refer to a variety of different
activities and does not necessarily have the same meaning as in any government
payment transparency reports.   

OVERVIEW     

   The
following discussion and analysis of ExxonMobil s financial results, as well as
the accompanying financial statements and related notes to consolidated
financial statements to which they refer, are the responsibility of the
management of Exxon Mobil Corporation. The Corporation s accounting and
financial reporting fairly reflect its straightforward business model involving
the extracting, manufacturing and marketing of hydrocarbons and
hydrocarbon-based products. The Corporation s business model involves the
production (or purchase), manufacture and sale of physical products, and all
commercial activities are directly in support of the underlying physical
movement of goods.    

   ExxonMobil,
with its resource base, financial strength, disciplined investment approach and
technology portfolio, is well-positioned to participate in substantial
investments to develop new energy supplies. The company s integrated business
model, with significant investments in Upstream, Downstream and Chemical
segments, reduces the Corporation s risk from changes in commodity prices. While
commodity prices are volatile on a short-term basis and depend on supply and
demand, ExxonMobil s investment decisions are based on our long-term business
outlook, using a disciplined approach in selecting and pursuing the most
attractive investment opportunities. The corporate plan is a fundamental annual
management process that is the basis for setting near-term operating and
capital objectives in addition to providing the longer-term economic
assumptions used for investment evaluation purposes. Volumes are based on
individual field production profiles, which are also updated annually. Price
ranges for crude oil, natural gas, refined products, and chemical products are
based on corporate plan assumptions developed annually by major region and are
utilized for investment evaluation purposes. Potential investment opportunities
are evaluated over a wide range of economic scenarios to establish the
resiliency of each opportunity. Once investments are made, a reappraisal
process is completed to ensure relevant lessons are learned and improvements
are incorporated into future projects.    

40       

MANAGEMENT S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF
FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS      

BUSINESS
ENVIRONMENT AND RISK ASSESSMENT     

    Long-Term Business Outlook     

   By
2040, the world s population is projected to grow to approximately 9 billion
people, or about 1.8 billion more than in 2014. Coincident with this
population increase, the Corporation expects worldwide economic growth to
average close to 3 percent per year. As economies and populations grow,
and as living standards improve for billions of people, the need for energy
will continue to rise. Even with significant efficiency gains, global energy
demand is projected to rise by about 25 percent from 2014 to 2040. This
demand increase is expected to be concentrated in developing countries (i.e.,
those that are not member nations of the Organisation for Economic Co operation
and Development).     

   As
expanding prosperity drives global energy demand higher, increasing use of
energy efficient and lower emission fuels, technologies and
practices will continue to help significantly reduce energy consumption and
emissions per unit of economic output over time. Substantial efficiency gains
are likely in all key aspects of the world s economy through 2040, affecting
energy requirements for transportation, power generation, industrial
applications, and residential and commercial needs.   

   Energy
for transportation   including cars, trucks, ships, trains and airplanes   is
expected to increase by about 30 percent from 2014 to 2040. The growth in
transportation energy demand is likely to account for approximately 60 percent
of the growth in liquid fuels demand worldwide over this period. Nearly all the
world s transportation fleets will continue to run on liquid fuels, which are
abundant, widely available, easy to transport, and provide a large quantity of
energy in small volumes.   

   Demand
for electricity around the world is likely to increase approximately
65 percent from 2014 to 2040, led by growth in developing countries.
Consistent with this projection, power generation is expected to remain the
largest and fastest growing major segment of global energy demand.
Meeting the expected growth in power demand will require a diverse set of
energy sources. Today, coal fired generation provides about 40 percent
of the world s electricity, but by 2040 its share is likely to decline to about
30 percent, in part as a result of policies to improve air quality and
reduce greenhouse gas emissions and the risks of climate change. From 2014 to
2040, the amount of electricity generated using natural gas, nuclear power, and
renewables are all likely to double. By 2040, coal, natural gas and renewables
are projected to be generating approximately the same share of electricity
worldwide, although significant differences will exist across regions
reflecting a wide range of factors including the cost and availability of
energy types.   

   Liquid
fuels provide the largest share of global energy supplies today due to their
broad-based availability, affordability and ease of transportation,
distribution and storage to meet consumer needs. By 2040, global demand for
liquid fuels is projected to grow to approximately 112 million barrels of
oil equivalent per day, an increase of about 20 percent from 2014.
Globally, crude production from traditional conventional sources will likely
decrease slightly through 2040, with significant development activity mostly
offsetting natural declines from these fields. However, this decrease is
expected to be more than offset by rising production from a variety of emerging
supply sources   including tight oil, deepwater, oil sands, natural gas liquids
and biofuels. The world s resource base is sufficient to meet projected demand
through 2040 as technology advances continue to expand the availability of
economic supply options. However, access to resources and timely investments
will remain critical to meeting global needs with reliable, affordable supplies.   

   Natural
gas is a versatile fuel, suitable for a wide variety of applications, and it is
expected to be the fastest-growing major fuel source from 2014 to 2040, meeting
about 40 percent of global energy demand growth. Global natural gas demand
is expected to rise about 50 percent from 2014 to 2040, with about
45 percent of that increase in the Asia Pacific region. Helping meet these
needs will be significant growth in supplies of unconventional gas   the
natural gas found in shale and other rock formations that was once considered
uneconomic to produce. In total, about 60 percent of the growth in natural
gas supplies is expected to be from unconventional sources. However, we expect
conventionally-produced natural gas to remain the cornerstone of supply,
meeting about two thirds of global demand in 2040. The worldwide
liquefied natural gas (LNG) market is expected to almost triple by 2040, with
much of this supply expected to meet rising demand in Asia Pacific.   

   The
world s energy mix is highly diverse and will remain so through 2040. Oil is
expected to remain the largest source of energy with its share remaining close
to one third in 2040. Coal is currently the second largest source of
energy, but it is likely to lose that position to natural gas in the 2025 2030
timeframe. The share of natural gas is expected to exceed 25 percent by
2040, while the share of coal falls to about 20 percent. Nuclear power is
projected to grow significantly, as many nations are likely to expand nuclear
capacity to address rising electricity needs as well as energy security and
environmental issues. Total renewable energy is likely to reach about
15 percent of total energy by 2040, with biomass, hydro and geothermal
contributing a combined share of more than 10 percent. Total energy supplied
from wind, solar and biofuels is expected to increase rapidly, growing close to
250 percent from 2014 to 2040, when they will be approaching
4 percent of world energy.   

   The
Corporation anticipates that the world s available oil and gas resource base
will grow not only from new discoveries, but also from reserve increases in
previously discovered fields. Technology will underpin these increases. The
cost to develop and supply these resources will be significant. According to
the International Energy Agency, the investment required to meet oil and
natural       

41       

MANAGEMENT S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF
FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS      

gas supply requirements worldwide over the
period 2015 2040 will be about $25 trillion (measured in 2014
dollars) or approximately $1 trillion per year on average.   

   International
accords and underlying regional and national regulations covering greenhouse
gas emissions continue to evolve with uncertain timing and outcome, making it
difficult to predict their business impact. For many years, the Corporation has
taken into account policies established to reduce energy related
greenhouse gas emissions in its long-term    Outlook for Energy   , which is
used as a foundation for assessing the business environment and business
strategies and investments. The climate accord reached at the recent Conference
of the Parties (COP 21) in Paris set many new goals, and while many
related policies are still emerging, the    Outlook for Energy    continues to
anticipate that such policies will increase the cost of carbon dioxide emissions
over time. For purposes of the    Outlook for Energy   , we continue to assume
that governments will enact policies that impose rising costs on energy related
CO 2  emissions, which we assume will reach an implied cost in OECD nations
of about $80 per tonne in 2040. China and other leading non OECD
nations are expected to trail OECD policy initiatives. Nevertheless, as people and
nations look for ways to reduce risks of global climate change, they will
continue to need practical solutions that do not jeopardize the affordability
or reliability of the energy they need. Thus, all practical and economically
viable energy sources, both conventional and unconventional, will be needed to
continue meeting global energy needs   because of the scale of worldwide energy
demand.    

   The
information provided in the Long Term Business Outlook includes
ExxonMobil s internal estimates and forecasts based upon internal data and
analyses as well as publicly available information from external sources
including the International Energy Agency.   

Upstream     

   ExxonMobil
continues to maintain a diverse portfolio of exploration and development
opportunities, which enables the Corporation to be selective, maximizing
shareholder value and mitigating political and technical risks. ExxonMobil s
fundamental Upstream business strategies guide our global exploration,
development, production, and gas and power marketing activities. These
strategies include capturing material and accretive opportunities to
continually high-grade the resource portfolio, exercising a disciplined
approach to investing and cost management, developing and applying high-impact
technologies, pursuing productivity and efficiency gains, growing profitable
oil and gas production, and capitalizing on growing natural gas and power
markets. These strategies are underpinned by a relentless focus on operational
excellence, commitment to innovative technologies, development of our
employees, and investment in the communities within which we operate.    

   As
future development projects and drilling activities bring new production
online, the Corporation expects a shift in the geographic mix and in the type
of opportunities from which volumes are produced. Oil equivalent production
from North America is expected to increase over the next several years based on
current capital activity plans, contributing over a third of total production. Further,
the proportion of our global production from resource types utilizing
specialized technologies such as arctic, deepwater, and unconventional drilling
and production systems, as well as LNG, is also expected to grow, becoming a
slight majority of production in the next few years. We do not anticipate that
the expected change in the geographic mix of production volumes, and in the
types of opportunities from which volumes will be produced, will have a
material impact on the nature and the extent of the risks disclosed in Item 1A.
Risk Factors, or result in a material change in our level of unit operating
expenses.    

   The
Corporation anticipates several projects will come online over the next few
years providing additional production capacity. However, actual volumes will
vary from year to year due to the timing of individual project start-ups;
operational outages; reservoir performance; performance of enhanced oil recovery
projects; regulatory changes; the impact of fiscal and commercial terms; asset
sales; weather events; price effects on production sharing contracts; changes
in the amount and timing of capital investments that may vary depending on the
oil and gas price environment; and other factors described in Item 1A. Risk
Factors.   

   The
upstream industry environment has been challenged throughout 2015 with abundant
crude oil supply causing crude oil prices to decrease to levels not seen since
2004, while natural gas prices remained depressed. However, current market conditions
are not necessarily indicative of future conditions. The markets for crude
oil and natural gas have a history of significant price
volatility. ExxonMobil believes prices over the long term will continue to
be driven by market supply and demand, with the demand side largely being a
function of global economic growth. On the supply side, prices may be
significantly impacted by political events, the actions of OPEC and other large
government resource owners, and other factors. To manage the risks associated
with price, ExxonMobil evaluates annual plans and all investments across a wide
range of price scenarios. The Corporation s assessment is that its operations
will exhibit strong performance over the long term. This is the outcome of
disciplined investment, cost management, asset enhancement programs, and
application of advanced technologies.    

Downstream     

   ExxonMobil s
Downstream is a large, diversified business with refining, logistics, and
marketing complexes around the world. The Corporation has a presence in mature
markets in North America and Europe, as well as in the growing Asia Pacific
region.   

42       

MANAGEMENT S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF
FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS      

ExxonMobil s fundamental Downstream
business strategies competitively position the company across a range of market
conditions. These strategies include targeting best in class
operations in all aspects of the business, maximizing value from advanced
technologies, capitalizing on integration across ExxonMobil businesses,
selectively investing for resilient, advantaged returns, operating efficiently
and effectively, and providing quality, valued and differentiated products and
services to customers.    

   ExxonMobil s
operating results, as noted in Item 2. Properties, reflect 23 refineries,
located in 14 countries, with distillation capacity of 5 million
barrels per day and lubricant basestock manufacturing capacity of 136 thousand
barrels per day. ExxonMobil s fuels and lubes marketing businesses have
significant global reach, with multiple channels to market serving a diverse
customer base. Our portfolio of world-renowned brands includes    Exxon   ,    Mobil   ,
   Esso     and    Mobil 1   .     

   The
downstream industry environment improved in 2015. Growth in global demand,
stimulated by lower prices for crude oil and transportation fuels, resulted in
higher refinery utilization and margins, particularly in Europe and Asia
Pacific. Refineries in North America continue to benefit from lower raw
material and energy costs due to the abundant supply of crude oil and natural gas.
In the near term, we see variability in refining margins, with some regions
seeing weaker margins as new capacity additions are expected to outpace growth
in global demand for our products, which can also be affected by global
economic conditions and regulatory changes.   

   Refining
margins are largely driven by differences in commodity prices and are a function
of the difference between what a refinery pays for its raw materials (primarily
crude oil) and the market prices for the range of products produced (primarily
gasoline, heating oil, diesel oil, jet fuel and fuel oil). Crude oil and many
products are widely traded with published prices, including those quoted on
multiple exchanges around the world (e.g., New York Mercantile Exchange and
Intercontinental Exchange). Prices for these commodities are determined by the
global marketplace and are influenced by many factors, including global and
regional supply/demand balances, inventory levels, industry refinery
operations, import/export balances, currency fluctuations, seasonal demand,
weather and political climate.    

   ExxonMobil s
long term outlook is that industry refining margins will remain subject
to intense competition as new capacity additions outpace the growth in global
demand. ExxonMobil s integration across the value chain, from refining to
marketing, enhances overall value in both fuels and lubricants businesses.   

   As
described in more detail in Item 1A. Risk Factors, proposed carbon policy and
other climate related regulations in many countries, as well as the
continued growth in biofuels mandates, could have negative impacts on the
Downstream business    

   In
the retail fuels marketing business, competition has caused inflation adjusted
margins to decline. In 2015, ExxonMobil expanded its branded retail site
network and progressed the multi year transition of the direct served
(i.e., dealer, company operated) retail network in portions of Europe to
a more capital efficient Branded Wholesaler model. The company s
lubricants business continues to grow, leveraging world class brands and
integration with industry leading basestock refining capability.
ExxonMobil remains a market leader in the high value synthetic lubricants
sector, despite increasing competition.    

   The
Downstream portfolio is continually evaluated during all parts of the business
cycle, and numerous asset divestments have been made over the past decade. In
2015, the company divested its 50 percent share of Chalmette Refining, LLC, and
reached an agreement for the sale of the refinery in Torrance, California, with
change-in-control expected by mid-2016. When investing in the Downstream,
ExxonMobil remains focused on selective and resilient projects. In 2015,
construction continued on a new delayed coker unit at the refinery in Antwerp,
Belgium, to upgrade low value bunker fuel into higher value diesel
products. Funding was approved for the construction of a proprietary
hydrocracker at the refinery in Rotterdam, Netherlands, to produce higher value
ultra low sulfur diesel and Group II basestocks. The company completed an
expansion of lubricant basestock capacity at the refinery in Baytown, Texas.
Finished lubricant plant expansions in China and Finland were completed, and an
expansion in Singapore is underway to support demand growth for finished
lubricants and greases in key markets.   

Chemical     

   Worldwide
petrochemical demand continued to improve in 2015, led by growing demand from
Asia Pacific manufacturers of industrial and consumer products. North America
continued to benefit from abundant supplies of natural gas and gas liquids,
providing both low cost feedstock and energy. Specialty product margins
improved in 2015, but continued to be impacted by new industry capacity.    

   ExxonMobil
sustained its competitive advantage through continued operational excellence,
investment and cost discipline, a balanced portfolio of products, integration
with refining and upstream operations, all underpinned by proprietary
technology.   

   In
2015, we neared completion of the specialty elastomers project at our joint
venture facility in Al-Jubail, Saudi Arabia. Construction continued on a major
expansion at our Texas facilities, including a new world-scale ethane cracker
and polyethylene lines, to capitalize on low-cost feedstock and energy supplies
in North America and to meet rapidly growing demand for premium polymers.
Construction of new halobutyl rubber and hydrocarbon resin units also
progressed in Singapore to further extend our specialty product capacity in
Asia Pacific.   

43       

MANAGEMENT S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF
FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS      

2015     

   Upstream earnings were $7,101 million,
down $20,447 million from 2014. Lower realizations decreased earnings by
$18.8 billion. Favorable volume and mix effects increased earnings by
$810 million, including contributions from new developments. All other
items decreased earnings by $2.4 billion, primarily due to lower asset
management gains and approximately $500 million of lower favorable one time
tax effects, partly offset by lower expenses of about $230 million.          On an oil equivalent basis,
production of 4.1 million barrels per day was up 3.2 percent compared
to 2014. Liquids production of 2.3 million barrels per day increased
234,000 barrels per day, with project ramp up and entitlement
effects partly offset by field decline. Natural gas production of
10.5 billion cubic feet per day decreased 630 million cubic feet per
day from 2014 as regulatory restrictions in the Netherlands and field decline
were partly offset by project ramp up, work programs and entitlement
effects.          U.S. Upstream
earnings declined $6,276 million from 2014 to a loss of $1,079 million
in 2015. Earnings outside the U.S. were $8,180 million, down $14,171 million
from the prior year.   

2014     

   Upstream earnings were
$27,548 million, up $707 million from 2013. Lower prices decreased
earnings by $2 billion. Favorable volume effects increased earnings by
$510 million. All other items, primarily asset sales and favorable U.S.
deferred income tax items, increased earnings by $2.2 billion. On an oil equivalent
basis, production of 4 million barrels per day was down 4.9 percent
compared to 2013. Excluding the impact of the expiry of the Abu Dhabi onshore
concession, production decreased 1.7 percent. Liquids production of
2.1 million barrels per day decreased 91,000 barrels per day compared
to 2013. The Abu Dhabi onshore concession expiry reduced volumes by
135,000 barrels per day. Excluding this impact, liquids production was up
2 percent, driven by project ramp up and work programs. Natural gas
production of 11.1 billion cubic feet per day decreased 691 million
cubic feet per day from 2013, as expected U.S. field decline and lower European
demand were partially offset by project ramp up and work programs.
Earnings from U.S. Upstream operations were $5,197 million, up
$1,006 million from 2013. Earnings outside the U.S. were
$22,351 million, down $299 million from the prior year.    

44       

MANAGEMENT S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF
FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS      

Listed below are
descriptions of ExxonMobil s volumes reconciliation factors which are provided
to facilitate understanding of the terms.   

Entitlements - Net Interest      are changes to ExxonMobil s share of
production volumes caused by non-operational changes to volume-determining
factors. These factors consist of net interest changes specified in Production
Sharing Contracts (PSCs) which typically occur when cumulative investment
returns or production volumes achieve defined thresholds, changes in equity
upon achieving pay-out in partner investment carry situations, equity
redeterminations as specified in venture agreements, or as a result of the
termination or expiry of a concession. Once a net interest change has occurred,
it typically will not be reversed by subsequent events, such as lower crude oil
prices.   

Entitlements - Price, Spend and Other      are changes to ExxonMobil s share of
production volumes resulting from temporary changes to non-operational
volume-determining factors. These factors include changes in oil and gas prices
or spending levels from one period to another. According to the terms of
contractual arrangements or government royalty regimes, price or spending
variability can increase or decrease royalty burdens and/or volumes
attributable to ExxonMobil. For example, at higher prices, fewer barrels are
required for ExxonMobil to recover its costs. These effects generally vary from
period to period with field spending patterns or market prices for oil and
natural gas. Such factors can also include other temporary changes in net
interest as dictated by specific provisions in production agreements.   

Quotas      are changes in ExxonMobil s allowable production arising
from production constraints imposed by countries which are members of the
Organization of the Petroleum Exporting Countries (OPEC). Volumes reported in
this category would have been readily producible in the absence of the quota.   

Divestments      are reductions in ExxonMobil s production
arising from commercial arrangements to fully or partially reduce equity in a
field or asset in exchange for financial or other economic consideration.    

Growth and Other      factors comprise all other operational
and non-operational factors not covered by the above definitions that may
affect volumes attributable to ExxonMobil. Such factors include, but are not
limited to, production enhancements from project and work program activities,
acquisitions including additions from asset exchanges, downtime, market demand,
natural field decline, and any fiscal or commercial terms that do not affect
entitlements.   

45       

MANAGEMENT S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF
FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS      

2015     

   Downstream earnings of $6,557 million
increased $3,512 million from 2014. Stronger margins increased earnings by
$4.1 billion, while volume and mix effects decreased earnings by
$200 million. All other items decreased earnings by $420 million,
reflecting nearly $560 million in higher maintenance expense and about
$280 million in unfavorable inventory impacts, partly offset by favorable
foreign exchange effects. Petroleum product sales of 5.8 million barrels
per day were 121,000 barrels per day lower than 2014.          U.S. Downstream earnings were $1,901 million,
an increase of $283 million from 2014. Non U.S. Downstream earnings
were $4,656 million, up $3,229 million from the prior year.   

2014     

   Downstream earnings of $3,045 million
decreased $404 million from 2013. Lower margins decreased earnings by
$230 million. Volume and mix effects increased earnings by $480 million.
All other items, primarily unfavorable foreign exchange and tax impacts,
partially offset by lower expenses, decreased earnings by $650 million.
Petroleum product sales of 5.9 million barrels per day were in line with
2013. U.S. Downstream earnings were $1,618 million, a decrease of
$581 million from 2013. Non U.S. Downstream earnings were $1,427
million, up $177 million from the prior year.   

2015     

   Chemical earnings of $4,418 million
increased $103 million from 2014. Stronger margins increased earnings by
$590 million. Favorable volume and mix effects increased earnings by
$220 million. All other items decreased earnings by $710 million,
reflecting about $680 million in unfavorable foreign exchange effects and
$220 million in negative tax and inventory impacts, partly offset by asset
management gains. Prime product sales of 24.7 million metric tons were up
478,000 metric tons from 2014.          U.S. Chemical earnings were $2,386 million, down $418 million
from 2014. Non U.S. Chemical earnings were $2,032 million, $521 million
higher than the prior year.   

2014     

   Chemical earnings of $4,315 million
increased $487 million from 2013. Higher commodity driven margins
increased earnings by $520 million, while volume and mix effects increased
earnings by $100 million. All other items, primarily higher planned
expenses, decreased earnings by $130 million. Prime product sales of
24.2 million metric tons were up 172,000 metric tons from 2013,
driven by increased Singapore production. U.S. Chemical earnings were
$2,804 million, up $49 million from 2013. Non U.S. Chemical
earnings were $1,511 million, $438 million higher than the prior year.   

46       

MANAGEMENT S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF
FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS      

2015     

   Corporate and financing expenses were $1,926 million
in 2015 compared to $2,388 million in 2014, with the decrease due mainly
to net favorable tax related items.   

2014     

   Corporate and financing expenses were
$2,388 million in 2014, up $850 million from 2013 due primarily to
tax related items.    

47       

MANAGEMENT S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF
FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS      

Total
cash and cash equivalents were $3.7 billion at the end of 2015, $1.0 billion
lower than the prior year. The major sources of funds in 2015 were net income
including noncontrolling interests of $16.6 billion, the adjustment for the
noncash provision of $18.0 billion for depreciation and depletion, and a net
debt increase of $9.3 billion. The major uses of funds included spending for
additions to property, plant and equipment of $26.5 billion, the purchase of
shares of ExxonMobil stock of $4.0 billion, dividends to shareholders of $12.1
billion and a change in working capital, excluding cash and debt, of $3.1
billion.    

   Total
cash and cash equivalents were $4.7 billion at the end of 2014, $0.3 billion
lower than the prior year. The major sources of funds in 2014 were net income
including noncontrolling interests of $33.6 billion, the adjustment for the
noncash provision of $17.3 billion for depreciation and depletion, a net debt
increase of $7.0 billion and collection of advances of $3.3 billion. The major
uses of funds included spending for additions to property, plant and equipment
of $33.0 billion, the purchase of shares of ExxonMobil stock of $13.2 billion,
dividends to shareholders of $11.6 billion and a change in working capital,
excluding cash and debt, of $4.9 billion. Included in total cash and cash
equivalents at year-end 2014 was $42 million of restricted cash. For additional
details, see the Consolidated Statement of Cash Flows.   

   The
Corporation has access to significant capacity of long-term and short-term
liquidity. Internally generated funds are expected to cover the majority of
financial requirements, supplemented by long-term and short-term debt. On
December 31, 2015, the Corporation had unused committed short-term lines of
credit of $6.0 billion and unused committed long-term lines of credit of $0.4
billion. Cash that may be temporarily available as surplus to the Corporation s
immediate needs is carefully managed through counterparty quality and
investment guidelines to ensure it is secure and readily available to meet the
Corporation s cash requirements and to optimize returns.    

   To
support cash flows in future periods the Corporation will need to continually
find and develop new fields, and continue to develop and apply new technologies
and recovery processes to existing fields, in order to maintain or increase
production. After a period of production at plateau rates, it is the nature of
oil and gas fields eventually to produce at declining rates for the remainder
of their economic life. Averaged over all the Corporation s existing oil and
gas fields and without new projects, ExxonMobil s production is expected to
decline at an average of approximately 3 percent per year over the next few
years. Decline rates can vary widely by individual field due to a number of
factors, including, but not limited to, the type of reservoir, fluid
properties, recovery mechanisms, work activity, and age of the field.
Furthermore, the Corporation s net interest in production for individual fields
can vary with price and the impact of fiscal and commercial terms.    

   The
Corporation has long been successful at offsetting the effects of natural field
decline through disciplined investments in quality opportunities and project
execution. On average over the last decade, this has resulted in net annual
additions to proved reserves that have exceeded the amount produced. The
Corporation anticipates several projects will come online over the next few years
providing additional production capacity. However, actual volumes will vary
from year to year due to the timing of individual project start-ups;
operational outages; reservoir performance; performance of enhanced oil
recovery projects; regulatory changes; the impact of fiscal and commercial
terms; asset sales; weather events; price effects on production sharing
contracts; and changes in the amount and timing of investments that may vary
depending on the oil and gas price environment. The Corporation s cash flows
are also highly dependent on crude oil and natural gas prices. Please refer to
Item 1A. Risk Factors for a more complete discussion of risks.    

48       

MANAGEMENT S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF
FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS      

The Corporation s financial strength
enables it to make large, long-term capital expenditures. Capital and
exploration expenditures in 2015 were $31.1 billion, reflecting the
Corporation s continued active investment program. The Corporation anticipates
an investment level of $23.2 billion in 2016. The Corporation is emerging from
several years of high capital expenditure levels that supported major
long-plateau production projects coming on line. Lower levels of capital
spending over the next few years, partly due to cost savings and capital
efficiencies, are not expected to delay major project schedules nor have a
material effect on our volume capacity outlook.   

   Actual
spending could vary depending on the progress of individual projects and
property acquisitions. The Corporation has a large and diverse portfolio of
development projects and exploration opportunities, which helps mitigate the
overall political and technical risks of the Corporation s Upstream segment and
associated cash flow. Further, due to its financial strength, debt capacity and
diverse portfolio of opportunities, the risk associated with failure or delay
of any single project would not have a significant impact on the Corporation s
liquidity or ability to generate sufficient cash flows for operations and its
fixed commitments.   

Cash Flow from
Operating Activities    

2015     

   Cash provided by operating activities
totaled $30.3 billion in 2015, $14.8 billion lower than 2014. The major source
of funds was net income including noncontrolling interests of $16.6 billion, a
decrease of $17.1 billion. The noncash provision for depreciation and depletion
was $18.0 billion, up $0.8 billion from the prior year. The adjustment for net
gains on asset sales was $0.2 billion compared to an adjustment of $3.2 billion
in 2014. Changes in operational working capital, excluding cash and debt,
decreased cash in 2015 by $3.1 billion.   

2014     

   Cash provided by operating activities
totaled $45.1 billion in 2014, $0.2 billion higher than 2013. The major source
of funds was net income including noncontrolling interests of $33.6 billion, an
increase of $0.2 billion. The noncash provision for depreciation and depletion
was $17.3 billion, up $0.1 billion from the prior year. The adjustment for net
gains on asset sales was $3.2 billion compared to an adjustment of $1.8 billion
in 2013. Changes in operational working capital, excluding cash and debt,
decreased cash in 2014 by $4.9 billion.   

Cash Flow from
Investing Activities    

2015    

   Cash used in investment activities netted to $23.8 billion
in 2015, $3.2 billion lower than 2014. Spending for property, plant and
equipment of $26.5 billion decreased $6.5 billion from 2014. Proceeds
associated with sales of subsidiaries, property, plant and equipment, and sales
and returns of investments of $2.4 billion compared to $4.0 billion in 2014.
Additional investments and advances were $1.0 billion lower in 2015, while
collection of advances was $2.5 billion lower in 2015.   

2014     

   Cash used in investment activities netted to $27.0 billion
in 2014, $7.2 billion lower than 2013. Spending for property, plant and
equipment of $33.0 billion decreased $0.7 billion from 2013. Proceeds
associated with sales of subsidiaries, property, plant and equipment, and sales
and returns of investments of $4.0 billion compared to $2.7 billion in 2013.
Additional investments and advances were $2.8 billion lower in 2014, while
collection of advances was $2.2 billion higher in 2014.   

49       

MANAGEMENT S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF
FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS      

Cash Flow from Financing Activities     

2015     

   Cash
used in financing activities was $7.0 billion in 2015, $10.9 billion lower than
2014. Dividend payments on common shares increased to $2.88 per share from
$2.70 per share and totaled $12.1 billion, a pay-out of 75 percent of net
income. During the first quarter of 2015, the Corporation issued $8.0 billion
of long-term debt. Total debt increased $9.6 billion to $38.7 billion at year end.

ExxonMobil
share of equity decreased $3.6 billion to $170.8 billion. The addition to
equity for earnings was $16.2 billion. This was offset by reductions for
distributions to ExxonMobil shareholders of $15.1 billion, composed of $12.1
billion in dividends and $3.0 billion of share purchases of ExxonMobil stock to
reduce shares outstanding. Foreign exchange translation effects of $8.2 billion
for the stronger U.S. currency reduced equity, while a $3.6 billion change in
the funded status of the postretirement benefits reserves increased equity.   

   During 2015, Exxon Mobil Corporation
purchased 48 million shares of its common stock for the treasury at a gross
cost of $4.0 billion. These purchases were to reduce the number of shares
outstanding and to offset shares issued in conjunction with company benefit
plans and programs. Shares outstanding were reduced by 1.1 percent from 4,201
million to 4,156 million at the end of 2015. Purchases were made in both the
open market and through negotiated transactions. Purchases may be increased,
decreased or discontinued at any time without prior notice.   

2014     

   Cash
used in financing activities was $17.9 billion in 2014, $2.4 billion higher
than 2013. Dividend payments on common shares increased to $2.70 per share from
$2.46 per share and totaled $11.6 billion, a pay-out of 36 percent of net income.
During the first quarter of 2014, the Corporation issued $5.5 billion of
long-term debt. Total debt increased $6.4 billion to $29.1 billion at year end.

ExxonMobil
share of equity increased $0.4 billion to $174.4 billion. The addition to
equity for earnings was $32.5 billion. This was offset by reductions for
distributions to ExxonMobil shareholders of $23.6 billion, composed of $11.6
billion in dividends and $12.0 billion of share purchases of ExxonMobil stock
to reduce shares outstanding. Foreign exchange translation effects of $5.1
billion for the stronger U.S. currency and a $3.1 billion change in the funded
status of the postretirement benefits reserves also reduced equity.   

   During 2014, Exxon Mobil Corporation
purchased 136 million shares of its common stock for the treasury at a gross
cost of $13.2 billion. These purchases were to reduce the number of shares
outstanding and to offset shares issued in conjunction with company benefit
plans and programs. Shares outstanding were reduced by 3.1 percent from 4,335
million to 4,201 million at the end of 2014. Purchases were made in both the
open market and through negotiated transactions.     

50       

MANAGEMENT S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF
FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS      

Commitments

Set
forth below is information about the outstanding commitments of the
Corporation s consolidated subsidiaries at December 31, 2015. The table combines
data from the Consolidated Balance Sheet and from individual notes to the
Consolidated Financial Statements.    

This
table excludes commodity purchase obligations (volumetric commitments but no
fixed or minimum price) which are resold shortly after purchase, either in an
active, highly liquid market or under long-term, unconditional sales contracts
with similar pricing terms. Examples include long-term, noncancelable LNG and
natural gas purchase commitments and commitments to purchase refinery products
at market prices. Inclusion of such commitments would not be meaningful in
assessing liquidity and cash flow, because these purchases will be offset in
the same periods by cash received from the related sales transactions. The
table also excludes unrecognized tax benefits totaling $9.4 billion as of
December 31, 2015, because the Corporation is unable to make reasonably
reliable estimates of the timing of cash settlements with the respective taxing
authorities. Further details on the unrecognized tax benefits can be found in  Note
19: Income, Sales-Based and Other Taxes.    

   Notes:    

    (1)   Includes capitalized lease
obligations of $1,238 million.     

    (2)   The amount due in one year is
included in notes and loans payable of $18,762 million.     

    (3)   The fair value of asset retirement
obligations, primarily upstream asset removal costs at the completion of field
life.     

    (4)   The amount by which the benefit
obligations exceeded the fair value of fund assets for certain U.S. and
non-U.S. pension and other postretirement plans at year end. The payments by
period include expected contributions to funded pension plans in 2016 and
estimated benefit payments for unfunded plans in all years.     

    (5)   Minimum commitments for operating
leases, shown on an undiscounted basis, cover drilling equipment, tankers,
service stations and other properties. Total includes $1,621 million related to
drilling rigs and related equipment.    

    (6)   Unconditional purchase obligations
(UPOs) are those long-term commitments that are noncancelable or cancelable
only under certain conditions, and that third parties have used to secure
financing for the facilities that will provide the contracted goods or
services. The undiscounted obligations of $936 million mainly pertain to
pipeline throughput agreements and include $411 million of obligations to
equity companies.     

    (7)   Take-or-pay obligations are
noncancelable, long-term commitments for goods and services other than UPOs.
The undiscounted obligations of $24,870 million mainly pertain to pipeline,
manufacturing supply and terminal agreements.     

    (8)   Firm commitments related to capital
projects, shown on an undiscounted basis, totaled approximately $15.2 billion.
These commitments were primarily associated with Upstream projects outside the
U.S., of which $8.0 billion was associated with projects in Africa, United Arab
Emirates, Canada, Malaysia, Kazakhstan and Australia. The Corporation expects
to fund the majority of these projects with i      nternally generated funds, supplemented by
long-term and short-term debt.    

51       

MANAGEMENT S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF
FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS      

Guarantees     

   The
Corporation and certain of its consolidated subsidiaries were contingently
liable at December 31, 2015, for guarantees relating to notes, loans and
performance under contracts (Note 16). Where guarantees for environmental
remediation and other similar matters do not include a stated cap, the amounts
reflect management s estimate of the maximum potential exposure. These guarantees
are not reasonably likely to have a material effect on the Corporation s
financial condition, changes in financial condition, revenues or expenses,
results of operations, liquidity, capital expenditures or capital resources.    

Financial Strength     

   On
December 31, 2015, the Corporation s unused short-term committed lines of credit
totaled approximately $6.0 billion (Note 6) and unused long-term committed
lines of credit totaled approximately $0.4 billion (Note 14). The table below
shows the Corporation s fixed-charge coverage and consolidated debt-to-capital
ratios. The data demonstrate the Corporation s creditworthiness.    

Management
views the Corporation s financial strength, as evidenced by the above financial
ratios and other similar measures, to be a competitive advantage of strategic
importance. The Corporation s sound financial position gives it the opportunity
to access the world s capital markets in the full range of market conditions,
and enables the Corporation to take on large, long-term capital commitments in
the pursuit of maximizing shareholder value.    

Litigation and Other Contingencies     

   As
discussed in Note 16, a variety of claims have been made against ExxonMobil and
certain of its consolidated subsidiaries in a number of pending lawsuits. Based
on a consideration of all relevant facts and circumstances, the Corporation
does not believe the ultimate outcome of any currently pending lawsuit against
ExxonMobil will have a material adverse effect upon the Corporation s
operations, financial condition, or financial statements taken as a whole.
There are no events or uncertainties beyond those already included in reported
financial information that would indicate a material change in future operating
results or financial condition. Refer to Note 16 for additional information on
legal proceedings and other contingencies.    

52       

MANAGEMENT S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF
FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS      

Capital
and exploration expenditures in 2015 were $31.1 billion, as the Corporation
continued to pursue opportunities to find and produce new supplies of oil and
natural gas to meet global demand for energy. The Corporation anticipates an investment
level of $23.2 billion in 2016. Actual spending could vary depending on the
progress of individual projects and property acquisitions.   

   Upstream
spending of $25.4 billion in 2015 was down 22 percent from 2014, reflecting key
project start-ups and capital efficiencies. Investments in 2015 included
projects in the U.S. Gulf of Mexico and Alaska, U.S. onshore drilling and
continued progress on world-class projects in Canada and Australia. The
majority of expenditures are on development projects, which typically take two
to four years from the time of recording proved undeveloped reserves to the
start of production. The percentage of proved developed reserves was 73 percent
of total proved reserves at year-end 2015, and has been over 60 percent for the
last ten years.   

   Capital
investments in the Downstream totaled $2.6 billion in 2015, a decrease of $0.4
billion from 2014, mainly reflecting lower refining project spending. The
Chemical capital expenditures of $2.8 billion increased $0.1 billion from 2014
with higher investments in the U.S.   

2015     

   Income,
sales-based and all other taxes and duties totaled $57.9 billion in 2015, a
decrease of $25.0 billion or 30 percent from 2014. Income tax expense, both
current and deferred, was $5.4 billion, $12.6 billion lower than 2014, as a
result of lower earnings and a lower effective tax rate. The effective tax rate
was 34 percent compared to 41 percent in the prior year due primarily to a
lower share of earnings in higher tax jurisdictions. Sales-based and all other
taxes and duties of $52.5 billion in 2015 decreased $12.4 billion as a result
of lower sales realizations.   

2014     

   Income,
sales-based and all other taxes and duties totaled $82.9 billion in 2014, a
decrease of $8.4 billion or 9 percent from 2013. Income tax expense, both
current and deferred, was $18.0 billion, $6.2 billion lower than 2013, as a
result of a lower effective tax rate. The effective tax rate was 41 percent
compared to 48 percent in the prior year due primarily to impacts related to
the Corporation s asset management program and favorable U.S. deferred tax
items. Sales-based and all other taxes and duties of $64.9 billion in 2014
decreased $2.1 billion.   

53       

MANAGEMENT S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF
FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS      

ENVIRONMENTAL MATTERS    

Throughout
ExxonMobil s businesses, new and ongoing measures are taken to prevent and
minimize the impact of our operations on air, water and ground. These
include a significant investment in refining infrastructure and technology to
manufacture clean fuels, as well as projects to monitor and reduce
nitrogen oxide, sulfur oxide and greenhouse gas emissions, and expenditures for
asset retirement obligations. Using definitions and guidelines established by
the American Petroleum Institute, ExxonMobil s 2015 worldwide environmental
expenditures for all such preventative and remediation steps, including
ExxonMobil s share of equity company expenditures, were $5.6 billion, of
which $3.8 billion were included in expenses with the remainder in capital
expenditures. The total cost for such activities is expected to decrease to
approximately $5 billion in 2016 and 2017, mainly reflecting lower project
activity in Canada. Capital expenditures are expected to account for approximately
30 percent of the total.     

Environmental Liabilities     

   The
Corporation accrues environmental liabilities when it is probable that
obligations have been incurred and the amounts can be reasonably estimated.
This policy applies to assets or businesses currently owned or previously
disposed. ExxonMobil has accrued liabilities for probable environmental
remediation obligations at various sites, including multiparty sites where the
U.S. Environmental Protection Agency has identified ExxonMobil as one of the
potentially responsible parties. The involvement of other financially
responsible companies at these multiparty sites could mitigate ExxonMobil s
actual joint and several liability exposure. At present, no individual site is
expected to have losses material to ExxonMobil s operations or financial
condition. Consolidated company provisions made in 2015 for environmental
liabilities were $371 million ($780 million in 2014) and the balance
sheet reflects accumulated liabilities of $837 million as of
December 31, 2015, and $1,066 million as of December 31, 2014.    

MARKET RISKS, INFLATION AND OTHER
UNCERTAINTIES     

Crude
oil, natural gas, petroleum product and chemical prices have fluctuated in
response to changing market forces. The impacts of these price fluctuations on
earnings from Upstream, Downstream and Chemical operations have varied. In the
Upstream, a $1 per barrel change in the weighted-average realized
price of oil would have approximately a $375 million annual after-tax effect on
Upstream consolidated plus equity company earnings. Similarly, a $0.10 per kcf
change in the worldwide average gas realization would have approximately a $150
million annual after-tax effect on Upstream consolidated plus equity company
earnings. For any given period, the extent of actual benefit or detriment will
be dependent on the price movements of individual types of crude oil, taxes and
other government take impacts, price adjustment lags in long-term gas
contracts, and crude and gas production volumes. Accordingly, changes in
benchmark prices for crude oil and natural gas only provide broad indicators of
changes in the earnings experienced in any particular period.    

   In
the very competitive downstream and chemical environments, earnings are
primarily determined by margin capture rather than absolute price levels of
products sold. Refining margins are a function of the difference between what a
refiner pays for its raw materials (primarily crude oil) and the market prices
for the range of products produced. These prices in turn depend on global and
regional supply/demand balances, inventory levels, refinery operations,
import/export balances and weather.    

54       

MANAGEMENT S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF
FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS      

The global
energy markets can give rise to extended periods in which market conditions are
adverse to one or more of the Corporation s businesses. Such conditions, along
with the capital-intensive nature of the industry and very long lead times
associated with many of our projects, underscore the importance of maintaining
a strong financial position. Management views the Corporation s financial
strength as a competitive advantage.    

   In
general, segment results are not dependent on the ability to sell and/or
purchase products to/from other segments. Instead, where such sales take place,
they are the result of efficiencies and competitive advantages of integrated
refinery/chemical complexes. Additionally, intersegment sales are at
market-based prices. The products bought and sold between segments can also be
acquired in worldwide markets that have substantial liquidity, capacity and
transportation capabilities. About 35 percent of the Corporation s intersegment
sales represent Upstream production sold to the Downstream. Other intersegment
sales include those between refineries and chemical plants related to raw
materials, feedstocks and finished products.    

   Although
price levels of crude oil and natural gas may rise or fall significantly over
the short to medium term due to global economic conditions, political events, decisions
by OPEC and other major government resource owners and other factors, industry
economics over the long term will continue to be driven by market supply and
demand. Accordingly, the Corporation evaluates the viability of all of its
investments over a broad range of prices. The Corporation s assessment is that
its operations will continue to be successful over the long term in a variety
of market conditions. This is the outcome of disciplined investment and asset
management programs.    

   The
Corporation has an active asset management program in which underperforming
assets are either improved to acceptable levels or considered for divestment.
The asset management program includes a disciplined, regular review to ensure
that all assets are contributing to the Corporation s strategic objectives. The
result is an efficient capital base, and the Corporation has seldom had to
write down the carrying value of assets, even during periods of low commodity
prices.    

Risk Management     

   The
Corporation s size, strong capital structure, geographic diversity and the
complementary nature of the Upstream, Downstream and Chemical businesses reduce
the Corporation s enterprise-wide risk from changes in interest rates, currency
rates and commodity prices. As a result, the Corporation makes limited use of
derivative instruments to mitigate the impact of such changes. With respect to
derivatives activities, the Corporation believes that there are no material
market or credit risks to the Corporation s financial position, results of
operations or liquidity as a result of the derivatives described in Note 13.
The Corporation does not engage in speculative derivative activities or
derivative trading activities nor does it use derivatives with leveraged features.
Credit risk associated with the Corporation s derivative position is mitigated
by several factors, including the use of derivative clearing exchanges and the
quality of and financial limits placed on derivative counterparties. The
Corporation maintains a system of controls that includes the authorization,
reporting and monitoring of derivative activity.    

   The
Corporation is exposed to changes in interest rates, primarily on its
short-term debt and the portion of long-term debt that carries floating
interest rates. The impact of a 100-basis-point change in interest rates
affecting the Corporation s debt would not be material to earnings, cash flow
or fair value. The Corporation has access to significant capacity of long-term
and short-term liquidity. Internally generated funds are expected to cover the
majority of financial requirements, supplemented by long-term and short-term
debt. Some joint-venture partners are dependent on the credit markets, and
their funding ability may impact the development pace of joint-venture
projects.    

   The
Corporation conducts business in many foreign currencies and is subject to
exchange rate risk on cash flows related to sales, expenses, financing and
investment transactions. The impacts of fluctuations in exchange rates on ExxonMobil s
geographically and functionally diverse operations are varied and often
offsetting in amount. The Corporation makes limited use of currency exchange
contracts to mitigate the impact of changes in currency values, and exposures
related to the Corporation s limited use of the currency exchange contracts are
not material.    

Inflation and Other Uncertainties     

   The
general rate of inflation in many major countries of operation has remained
moderate over the past few years, and the associated impact on non-energy costs
has generally been mitigated by cost reductions from efficiency and
productivity improvements. Beginning several years ago, an extended period of
increased demand for certain services and materials resulted in higher
operating and capital costs. More recently, multiple market changes, including
general commodity price decreases, lower oil prices and reduced upstream industry
activity, have contributed to lower prices for oilfield services and materials.
The Corporation works to minimize costs in all commodity price environments through
its economies of scale in global procurement and its efficient project
management practices.    

55       

MANAGEMENT S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF
FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS      

RECENTLY
ISSUED ACCOUNTING STANDARDS     

   In
May 2014, the Financial Accounting Standards Board issued a new standard,    Revenue
from Contracts with Customers   . The standard establishes a single revenue
recognition model for all contracts with customers, eliminates industry
specific requirements, and expands disclosure requirements. The standard is
required to be adopted beginning January 1, 2018.    

    Sales
and Other Operating Revenue  on the Consolidated Statement of Income includes
sales, excise and value-added taxes on sales transactions. When the Corporation
adopts the standard, revenue will exclude sales-based taxes collected on behalf
of third parties. This change in reporting will not impact earnings.   

   The
Corporation continues to evaluate other areas of the standard and its effect on
the Corporation s financial statements.    

CRITICAL ACCOUNTING ESTIMATES     

   The
Corporation s accounting and financial reporting fairly reflect its
straightforward business model involving the extracting, refining and marketing
of hydrocarbons and hydrocarbon-based products. The preparation of financial
statements in conformity with U.S. Generally Accepted Accounting Principles
(GAAP) requires management to make estimates and judgments that affect the
reported amounts of assets, liabilities, revenues and expenses and the
disclosure of contingent assets and liabilities. The Corporation s accounting
policies are summarized in Note 1.    

Oil and Gas Reserves    

  Evaluations
of oil and gas reserves are important to the effective management of upstream
assets. They are an integral part of investment decisions about oil and gas
properties such as whether development should proceed. Oil and gas reserve
quantities are also used as the basis to calculate unit-of-production
depreciation rates and to evaluate impairment.   

  Oil
and gas reserves include both proved and unproved reserves. Proved oil and gas
reserves are those quantities of oil and gas which, by analysis of geoscience
and engineering data, can be estimated with reasonable certainty to be
economically producible. Unproved reserves are those with less than reasonable
certainty of recoverability and include probable reserves. Probable reserves
are reserves that, together with proved reserves, are as likely as not to be
recovered.   

  The
estimation of proved reserves is an ongoing process based on rigorous technical
evaluations, commercial and market assessment, and detailed analysis of well
information such as flow rates and reservoir pressure declines. The estimation
of proved reserves is controlled by the Corporation through long-standing
approval guidelines. Reserve changes are made within a well-established,
disciplined process driven by senior level geoscience and engineering
professionals, assisted by the Reserves Technical Oversight group which has
significant technical experience, culminating in reviews with and approval by
senior management. Notably, the Corporation does not use specific quantitative
reserve targets to determine compensation. Key features of the reserve
estimation process are covered in Disclosure of Reserves in Item 2.   

  Although
the Corporation is reasonably certain that proved reserves will be produced,
the timing and amount recovered can be affected by a number of factors
including completion of development projects, reservoir performance, regulatory
approvals and significant changes in long-term oil and gas price levels.   

  Proved
reserves can be further subdivided into developed and undeveloped reserves. The
percentage of proved developed reserves was 73 percent of total proved reserves
at year-end 2015 (including both consolidated and equity company reserves), and
has been over 60 percent for the last ten years.  

  Revisions
can include upward or downward changes in previously estimated volumes of
proved reserves for existing fields due to the evaluation or re-evaluation of
(1) already available geologic, reservoir or production data, (2) new
geologic, reservoir or production data or (3) changes in prices and year-end
costs that are used in the estimation of reserves. Revisions can also result from
significant changes in development strategy or production equipment/facility
capacity.   

  When
crude oil and natural gas prices are in the range seen in late 2015 and early
2016 for an extended period of time, under the SEC definition of proved
reserves, certain quantities of oil and natural gas, such as oil sands
operations in Canada and natural gas operations in North America could
temporarily not qualify as proved reserves. Amounts that could be required to
be de-booked as proved reserves on an SEC basis are subject to being re-booked
as proved reserves at some point in the future when price levels recover, costs
decline, or operating efficiencies occur. Under the terms of certain
contractual arrangements or government royalty regimes, lower prices can also
increase proved reserves attributable to ExxonMobil. We do not expect any
temporary changes in reported proved reserves under SEC definitions to affect
the operation of the underlying projects or to alter our outlook for future
production volumes.  

56       

MANAGEMENT S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF
FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS      

Impact of Oil and Gas Reserves on Depreciation.    The calculation of unit-of-production depreciation is
a critical accounting estimate that measures the depreciation of upstream assets.
It is the ratio of actual volumes produced to total proved reserves or proved
developed reserves (those proved reserves recoverable through existing wells
with existing equipment and operating methods), applied to the asset cost. In
the event that the unit-of-production method does not result in an equitable
allocation of cost over the economic life of an upstream asset, an alternative
such as the straight-line method is used. The volumes produced and asset cost
are known and, while proved reserves have a high probability of recoverability
they are based on estimates that are subject to some variability. While the
revisions the Corporation has made in the past are an indicator of variability,
they have had a very small impact on the unit-of-production rates because they
have been small compared to the large reserves base.   

   Impact
of Oil and Gas Reserves, Prices and Margins on Testing for Impairment.    The Corporation performs impairment assessments
whenever events or circumstances indicate that the carrying amounts of its
long-lived assets (or group of assets) may not be recoverable through future
operations or disposition. Assets are grouped at the lowest level for which
there are identifiable cash flows that are largely independent of the cash
flows of other groups of assets for this assessment.   

  Potential
trigger events for impairment evaluation include:  

a significant decrease in the
market price of a long-lived asset;  

a significant adverse change in
the extent or manner in which an asset is being used or in its physical
condition including a significant decrease in current and projected reserve
volumes;  

a significant adverse change in
legal factors or in the business climate that could affect the value, including
an adverse action or assessment by a regulator;  

an accumulation of project costs
significantly in excess of the amount originally expected;  

a current-period operating loss
combined with a history and forecast of operating or cash flow losses; and  

a current expectation that, more
likely than not, a long-lived asset will be sold or otherwise disposed of
significantly before the end of its previously estimated useful life.  

  The
Corporation performs asset valuation analyses on an ongoing basis as a part of
its asset management program. These analyses and other profitability reviews
assist the Corporation in assessing whether the carrying amounts of any of its
assets may not be recoverable.  

  In
general, the Corporation does not view temporarily low prices or margins as a
trigger event for conducting impairment tests. The markets for crude oil,
natural gas and petroleum products have a history of significant price
volatility. Although prices will occasionally drop significantly, industry
prices over the long term will continue to be driven by market supply and
demand. On the supply side, industry production from mature fields is
declining, but this is being offset by production from new discoveries and
field developments. OPEC production policies also have an impact on world oil
supplies. The demand side is largely a function of global economic growth. The
relative growth/decline in supply versus demand will determine industry prices
over the long term, and these cannot be accurately predicted.   

  If
there were a trigger event, the Corporation estimates the future undiscounted
cash flows of the affected properties to judge the recoverability of carrying
amounts. Cash flows used in impairment evaluations are developed using
estimates for future crude oil and natural gas commodity prices, refining and
chemical margins, and foreign currency exchange rates. Volumes are based on
projected field and facility production profiles, throughput, or sales. These
evaluations make use of the Corporation s price, margin, volume, and cost
assumptions developed in the annual planning and budgeting process, and are
consistent with the criteria management uses to evaluate investment
opportunities. Where unproved reserves exist, an appropriately risk-adjusted
amount of these reserves may be included in the evaluation.  

  An
asset group would be impaired if its undiscounted cash flows were less than the
asset s carrying value. Impairments are measured by the amount by which the
carrying value exceeds fair value. Cash flow estimates for impairment testing
exclude the effects of derivative instruments.  

  In
light of continued weakness in the upstream industry environment in late 2015,
the Corporation undertook an effort to assess its major long-lived assets most
at risk for potential impairment. The results of this assessment confirm the
absence of a trigger event and indicate that the future undiscounted cash flows
associated with these assets substantially exceed the carrying value of the
assets. The assessment reflects crude and natural gas prices that are generally
consistent with the long-term price forecasts published by third-party industry
experts. Critical to the long-term recoverability of certain assets is the
assumption that either by supply and demand changes, or due to general
inflation, prices will rise in the future. Should increases in long-term prices
not materialize, certain of the Corporation s assets will be at risk for
impairment. Due to the inherent difficulty in predicting future commodity
prices, and the relationship between industry prices and costs, it is not
practicable to reasonably estimate a range of potential future impairments
related to the Corporation s long-lived assets.  

  Significant
unproved properties are assessed for impairment individually, and valuation
allowances against the capitalized costs are recorded based on the estimated
economic chance of success and the length of time that the Corporation expects
to hold the      

57       

MANAGEMENT S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF
FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS      

properties. Properties that are not
individually significant are aggregated by groups and amortized based on
development risk and average holding period.   

  Supplemental
information regarding oil and gas results of operations, capitalized costs and
reserves is provided following the notes to consolidated financial statements.
Future prices used for any impairment tests will vary from the ones used in the
supplemental oil and gas disclosure and could be lower or higher for any given
year.   

Inventories    

   Crude
oil, products and merchandise inventories are carried at the lower of current
market value or cost (generally determined under the last-in, first-out method
  LIFO). If crude oil, natural gas, petroleum product and chemical product
prices continue in the range seen in early 2016, the Corporation could be
subject to a lower of cost or market inventory valuation adjustment.   

Asset Retirement Obligations     

   The
Corporation incurs retirement obligations for certain assets. The fair values
of these obligations are recorded as liabilities on a discounted basis, which
is typically at the time the assets are installed. In the estimation of fair
value, the Corporation uses assumptions and judgments regarding such factors as
the existence of a legal obligation for an asset retirement obligation;
technical assessments of the assets; estimated amounts and timing of
settlements; discount rates; and inflation rates. Asset retirement obligations
are disclosed in Note 9 to the financial statements.    

Suspended Exploratory Well Costs     

   The
Corporation continues capitalization of exploratory well costs when the well
has found a sufficient quantity of reserves to justify its completion as a
producing well and the Corporation is making sufficient progress assessing the
reserves and the economic and operating viability of the project. Exploratory
well costs not meeting these criteria are charged to expense. The facts and
circumstances that support continued capitalization of suspended wells at year-end
are disclosed in Note 10 to the financial statements.    

Consolidations     

   The
Consolidated Financial Statements include the accounts of those subsidiaries
that the Corporation controls. They also include the Corporation s share of the
undivided interest in certain upstream assets, liabilities, revenues and
expenses. Amounts representing the Corporation s interest in the underlying net
assets of other significant entities that it does not control, but over which
it exercises significant influence, are accounted for using the equity method
of accounting.    

   Investments
in companies that are partially owned by the Corporation are integral to the
Corporation s operations. In some cases they serve to balance worldwide risks,
and in others they provide the only available means of entry into a particular
market or area of interest. The other parties, who also have an equity interest
in these companies, are either independent third parties or host governments
that share in the business results according to their ownership. The
Corporation does not invest in these companies in order to remove liabilities
from its balance sheet. In fact, the Corporation has long been on record
supporting an alternative accounting method that would require each investor to
consolidate its share of all assets and liabilities in these partially-owned
companies rather than only its interest in net equity. This method of
accounting for investments in partially-owned companies is not permitted by U.S.
GAAP except where the investments are in the direct ownership of a share of
upstream assets and liabilities. However, for purposes of calculating return on
average capital employed, which is not covered by U.S. GAAP standards, the
Corporation includes its share of debt of these partially-owned companies in
the determination of average capital employed.    

58       

MANAGEMENT S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF
FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS      

Pension
Benefits     

   The
Corporation and its affiliates sponsor about 100 defined benefit (pension)
plans in over 40 countries. The Pension and Other Postretirement Benefits footnote
(Note 17) provides details on pension obligations, fund assets and pension
expense.    

   Some
of these plans (primarily non-U.S.) provide pension benefits that are paid
directly by their sponsoring affiliates out of corporate cash flow rather than
a separate pension fund because tax conventions and regulatory practices do not
encourage advance funding. Book reserves are established for these plans. The
portion of the pension cost attributable to employee service is expensed as services
are rendered. The portion attributable to the increase in pension obligations
due to the passage of time is expensed over the term of the obligations, which
ends when all benefits are paid. The primary difference in pension expense for
unfunded versus funded plans is that pension expense for funded plans also
includes a credit for the expected long-term return on fund assets.   

   For
funded plans, including those in the U.S., pension obligations are financed in
advance through segregated assets or insurance arrangements. These plans are
managed in compliance with the requirements of governmental authorities and
meet or exceed required funding levels as measured by relevant actuarial and
government standards at the mandated measurement dates. In determining
liabilities and required contributions, these standards often require
approaches and assumptions that differ from those used for accounting purposes.

The
Corporation will continue to make contributions to these funded plans as
necessary. All defined-benefit pension obligations, regardless of the funding
status of the underlying plans, are fully supported by the financial strength
of the Corporation or the respective sponsoring affiliate.    

   Pension
accounting requires explicit assumptions regarding, among others, the long-term
expected earnings rate on fund assets, the discount rate for the benefit
obligations and the long-term rate for future salary increases. Pension
assumptions are reviewed annually by outside actuaries and senior management.
These assumptions are adjusted as appropriate to reflect changes in market
rates and outlook. The long-term expected earnings rate on U.S. pension plan
assets in 2015 was 7.00 percent. The 10 year and 20 year actual
returns on U.S. pension plan assets were 5 percent and 8 percent, respectively.
The Corporation establishes the long-term expected rate of return by developing
a forward-looking, long-term return assumption for each pension fund asset
class, taking into account factors such as the expected real return for the
specific asset class and inflation. A single, long-term rate of return is then
calculated as the weighted average of the target asset allocation percentages
and the long-term return assumption for each asset class. A worldwide reduction
of 0.5 percent in the long-term rate of return on assets would increase annual pension
expense by approximately $150 million before tax.    

   Differences
between actual returns on fund assets and the long-term expected return are not
recognized in pension expense in the year that the difference occurs. Such
differences are deferred, along with other actuarial gains and losses, and are
amortized into pension expense over the expected remaining service life of
employees.    

Litigation Contingencies     

   A
variety of claims have been made against the Corporation and certain of its
consolidated subsidiaries in a number of pending lawsuits. Management has
regular litigation reviews, including updates from corporate and outside
counsel, to assess the need for accounting recognition or disclosure of these
contingencies. The status of significant claims is summarized in Note 16.    

   The
Corporation accrues an undiscounted liability for those contingencies where the
incurrence of a loss is probable, and the amount can be reasonably estimated.
These amounts are not reduced by amounts that may be recovered under insurance
or claims against third parties, but undiscounted receivables from insurers or
other third parties may be accrued separately. The Corporation revises such
accruals in light of new information. For contingencies where an unfavorable
outcome is reasonably possible and which are significant, the Corporation
discloses the nature of the contingency and, where feasible, an estimate of the
possible loss. For purposes of our litigation contingency disclosures,
 significant  includes material matters as well as other items which management
believes should be disclosed.    

   Management
judgment is required related to contingent liabilities and the outcome of
litigation because both are difficult to predict. However, the Corporation has
been successful in defending litigation in the past. Payments have not had a
material adverse effect on operations or financial condition. In the
Corporation s experience, large claims often do not result in large awards.
Large awards are often reversed or substantially reduced as a result of appeal
or settlement.    

59       

MANAGEMENT S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF
FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS      

Tax
Contingencies     

   The
Corporation is subject to income taxation in many jurisdictions around the
world. Significant management judgment is required in the accounting for income
tax contingencies and tax disputes because the outcomes are often difficult to
predict.    

   The benefits of uncertain tax positions
that the Corporation has taken or expects to take in its income tax returns are
recognized in the financial statements if management concludes that it is more
likely than not that the position will be sustained with the tax authorities.
For a position that is likely to be sustained, the benefit recognized in the
financial statements is measured at the largest amount that is greater than 50
percent likely of being realized. A reserve is established for the difference
between a position taken or expected to be taken in an income tax return and
the amount recognized in the financial statements. The Corporation s
unrecognized tax benefits and a description of open tax years are summarized in
Note 19.   

Foreign Currency Translation     

   The
method of translating the foreign currency financial statements of the
Corporation s international subsidiaries into U.S. dollars is prescribed by
GAAP. Under these principles, it is necessary to select the functional currency
of these subsidiaries. The functional currency is the currency of the primary
economic environment in which the subsidiary operates. Management selects the
functional currency after evaluating this economic environment.    

   Factors
considered by management when determining the functional currency for a
subsidiary include the currency used for cash flows related to individual assets
and liabilities; the responsiveness of sales prices to changes in exchange
rates; the history of inflation in the country; whether sales are into local
markets or exported; the currency used to acquire raw materials, labor,
services and supplies; sources of financing; and significance of intercompany
transactions.   

60       

MANAGEMENT S
REPORT ON INTERNAL CONTROL OVER FINANCIAL REPORTING    

Management, including the
Corporation s Chief Executive Officer, Principal Financial Officer, and Principal
Accounting Officer, is responsible for establishing and maintaining adequate
internal control over the Corporation s financial reporting. Management
conducted an evaluation of the effectiveness of internal control over financial
reporting based on criteria established in    Internal Control  
Integrated Framework (2013)    issued by the Committee of Sponsoring
Organizations of the Treadway Commission. Based on this evaluation, management
concluded that Exxon Mobil Corporation s internal control over financial
reporting was effective as of December 31, 2015.   

  PricewaterhouseCoopers
LLP, an independent registered public accounting firm, audited the
effectiveness of the Corporation s internal control over financial reporting as
of December 31, 2015, as stated in their report included in the Financial
Section of this report.   

Rex W. Tillerson  
    Chief
  Executive Officer  

Andrew P. Swiger  
    Senior Vice President  
    (Principal
  Financial Officer)  

David S. Rosenthal  
    Vice President and Controller  
    (Principal
  Accounting Officer)  

61       

REPORT OF INDEPENDENT REGISTERED PUBLIC ACCOUNTING FIRM      

To the Shareholders of Exxon
Mobil Corporation:    

   In our opinion, the accompanying Consolidated Balance
Sheets and the related Consolidated Statements of Income, Comprehensive Income,
Changes in Equity, and Cash Flows present fairly, in all material respects, the
financial position of Exxon Mobil Corporation and its subsidiaries at
December 31, 2015 and 2014, and the results of their operations and their
cash flows for each of the three years in the period ended December 31, 2015
in conformity with accounting principles generally accepted in the United
States of America. Also in our opinion, the Corporation maintained, in all
material respects, effective internal control over financial reporting as of
December 31, 2015, based on criteria established in    Internal Control  
Integrated Framework (2013)    issued by the Committee of Sponsoring
Organizations of the Treadway Commission (COSO). The Corporation s management
is responsible for these financial statements, for maintaining effective
internal control over financial reporting and for its assessment of the
effectiveness of internal control over financial reporting, included in the
accompanying Management s Report on Internal Control over Financial Reporting.
Our responsibility is to express opinions on these financial statements and on
the Corporation s internal control over financial reporting based on our
integrated audits. We conducted our audits in accordance with the standards of
the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board (United States). Those standards
require that we plan and perform the audits to obtain reasonable assurance
about whether the financial statements are free of material misstatement and
whether effective internal control over financial reporting was maintained in
all material respects. Our audits of the financial statements included
examining, on a test basis, evidence supporting the amounts and disclosures in
the financial statements, assessing the accounting principles used and
significant estimates made by management, and evaluating the overall financial
statement presentation. Our audit of internal control over financial reporting
included obtaining an understanding of internal control over financial
reporting, assessing the risk that a material weakness exists, and testing and
evaluating the design and operating effectiveness of internal control based on
the assessed risk. Our audits also included performing such other procedures as
we considered necessary in the circumstances. We believe that our audits
provide a reasonable basis for our opinions.    

   A company s internal control over financial reporting is a
process designed to provide reasonable assurance regarding the reliability of
financial reporting and the preparation of financial statements for external
purposes in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles. A
company s internal control over financial reporting includes those policies and
procedures that (i) pertain to the maintenance of records that, in
reasonable detail, accurately and fairly reflect the transactions and
dispositions of the assets of the company; (ii) provide reasonable
assurance that transactions are recorded as necessary to permit preparation of
financial statements in accordance with generally accepted accounting
principles, and that receipts and expenditures of the company are being made
only in accordance with authorizations of management and directors of the company;
and (iii) provide reasonable assurance regarding prevention or timely
detection of unauthorized acquisition, use, or disposition of the company s
assets that could have a material effect on the financial statements.    

   Because of its inherent limitations, internal control over
financial reporting may not prevent or detect misstatements. Also, projections
of any evaluation of effectiveness to future periods are subject to the risk
that controls may become inadequate because of changes in conditions, or that
the degree of compliance with the policies or procedures may deteriorate.    

   /s/ PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP    

   Dallas, Texas    

   February 24, 2016    

62       

CONSOLIDATED STATEMENT OF INCOME      

(1)   Sales and other operating revenue
includes sales-based taxes of $22,678 million for 2015, $29,342 million for
2014 and $30,589 million for 2013.    

The
information in the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements is an integral
part of these statements.     

63       

CONSOLIDATED STATEMENT OF COMPREHENSIVE INCOME    

The
information in the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements is an integral
part of these statements.     

64       

CONSOLIDATED BALANCE SHEET      

The
information in the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements is an integral
part of these statements.     

65       

CONSOLIDATED STATEMENT OF CASH FLOWS         

The
information in the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements is an integral
part of these statements.     

66       

CONSOLIDATED STATEMENT OF CHANGES IN
EQUITY      

The
information in the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements is an integral
part of these statements.     

67       

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS

The accompanying consolidated financial
statements and the supporting and supplemental material are the responsibility
of the management of Exxon Mobil Corporation.    

   The
Corporation s principal business is energy, involving the worldwide
exploration, production, transportation and sale of crude oil and natural gas
(Upstream) and the manufacture, transportation and sale of petroleum products
(Downstream). The Corporation is also a major worldwide manufacturer and
marketer of petrochemicals (Chemical).    

   The
preparation of financial statements in conformity with U.S. Generally Accepted
Accounting Principles (GAAP) requires management to make estimates that affect
the reported amounts of assets, liabilities, revenues and expenses and the
disclosure of contingent assets and liabilities. Actual results could differ
from these estimates. Prior years  data has been reclassified in certain cases
to conform to the 2015 presentation basis.    

1.
Summary of Accounting Policies    

     Principles
of Consolidation.    The
Consolidated Financial Statements include the accounts of subsidiaries the
Corporation controls. They also include the Corporation s share of the
undivided interest in certain upstream assets, liabilities, revenues and
expenses.   

  Amounts
representing the Corporation s interest in entities that it does not control,
but over which it exercises significant influence, are included in
 Investments, advances and long-term receivables.  The Corporation s share of
the net income of these companies is included in the Consolidated Statement of
Income caption  Income from equity affiliates.    

  Majority
ownership is normally the indicator of control that is the basis on which
subsidiaries are consolidated. However, certain factors may indicate that a
majority-owned investment is not controlled and therefore should be accounted
for using the equity method of accounting. These factors occur where the
minority shareholders are granted by law or by contract substantive
participating rights. These include the right to approve operating policies,
expense budgets, financing and investment plans, and management compensation
and succession plans.   

  The
Corporation s share of the cumulative foreign exchange translation adjustment
for equity method investments is reported in Accumulated Other Comprehensive
Income.   

  Evidence
of loss in value that might indicate impairment of investments in companies
accounted for on the equity method is assessed to determine if such evidence
represents a loss in value of the Corporation s investment that is other than
temporary. Examples of key indicators include a history of operating losses,
negative earnings and cash flow outlook, significant downward revisions to oil
and gas reserves, and the financial condition and prospects for the investee s
business segment or geographic region. If evidence of an other than temporary
loss in fair value below carrying amount is determined, an impairment is
recognized. In the absence of market prices for the investment, discounted cash
flows are used to assess fair value.   

       Revenue Recognition.    The
Corporation generally sells crude oil, natural gas and petroleum and chemical
products under short-term agreements at prevailing market prices. In some cases
(e.g., natural gas), products may be sold under long-term agreements, with
periodic price adjustments. Revenues are recognized when the products are
delivered, which occurs when the customer has taken title and has assumed the
risks and rewards of ownership, prices are fixed or determinable and
collectibility is reasonably assured.   

  Revenues
from the production of natural gas properties in which the Corporation has an
interest with other producers are recognized on the basis of the Corporation s
net working interest. Differences between actual production and net working
interest volumes are not significant.   

  Purchases
and sales of inventory with the same counterparty that are entered into in
contemplation of one another are combined and recorded as exchanges measured at
the book value of the item sold.   

       Sales-Based Taxes.    The
Corporation reports sales, excise and value-added taxes on sales transactions
on a gross basis in the Consolidated Statement of Income (included in both
revenues and costs).   

       Derivative Instruments.    The
Corporation makes limited use of derivative instruments. The Corporation does
not engage in speculative derivative activities or derivative trading
activities, nor does it use derivatives with leveraged features. When the
Corporation does enter into derivative transactions, it is to offset exposures
associated with interest rates, foreign currency exchange rates and hydrocarbon
prices that arise from existing assets, liabilities and forecasted
transactions.   

  The
gains and losses resulting from changes in the fair value of derivatives are
recorded in income. In some cases, the Corporation designates derivatives as
fair value hedges, in which case the gains and losses are offset in income by
the gains and losses arising from changes in the fair value of the underlying
hedged item.   

       Fair Value.    Fair value is the
price that would be received to sell an asset or paid to transfer a liability
in an orderly transaction between market participants. Hierarchy Levels 1, 2
and 3 are terms for the priority of inputs to valuation techniques used to
measure fair value. Hierarchy Level 1 inputs are quoted prices in active
markets for identical assets or liabilities. Hierarchy      

68       

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS

Level 2
inputs are inputs other than quoted prices included within Level 1 that
are directly or indirectly observable for the asset or liability. Hierarchy
Level 3 inputs are inputs that are not observable in the market  .   

       Inventories.    Crude oil,
products and merchandise inventories are carried at the lower of current market
value or cost (generally determined under the last-in, first-out method  
LIFO). Inventory costs include expenditures and other charges (including
depreciation) directly and indirectly incurred in bringing the inventory to its
existing condition and location. Selling expenses and general and administrative
expenses are reported as period costs and excluded from inventory cost.
Inventories of materials and supplies are valued at cost or less.   

       Property, Plant and Equipment.    Depreciation,
depletion and amortization, based on cost less estimated salvage value of the
asset, are primarily determined under either the unit-of-production method or
the straight-line method, which is based on estimated asset service life taking
obsolescence into consideration. Maintenance and repairs, including planned
major maintenance, are expensed as incurred. Major renewals and improvements
are capitalized and the assets replaced are retired.   

  The
Corporation uses the  successful efforts  method to account for its exploration
and production activities. Under this method, costs are accumulated on a
field-by-field basis. Costs incurred to purchase, lease, or otherwise acquire a
property (whether unproved or proved) are capitalized when incurred. Exploratory
well costs are carried as an asset when the well has found a sufficient quantity
of reserves to justify its completion as a producing well and where the
Corporation is making sufficient progress assessing the reserves and the
economic and operating viability of the project. Exploratory well costs not
meeting these criteria are charged to expense. Other exploratory expenditures,
including geophysical costs and annual lease rentals, are expensed as incurred.
Development costs, including costs of productive wells and development dry
holes, are capitalized.   

   Acquisition costs of proved properties are amortized using a
unit-of-production method, computed on the basis of total proved oil and gas
reserves.    Capitalized exploratory
drilling and development costs associated with productive depletable extractive
properties are amortized using unit-of-production rates based on the amount of
proved developed reserves of oil, gas and other minerals that are estimated to
be recoverable from existing facilities using current operating methods. Under
the unit-of-production method, oil and gas volumes are considered produced once
they have been measured through meters at custody transfer or sales transaction
points at the outlet valve on the lease or field storage tank. In the event
that the unit-of-production method does not result in an equitable allocation
of cost over the economic life of an upstream asset, an alternative such as the
straight-line method is used.  

  Production
involves lifting the oil and gas to the surface and gathering, treating, field
processing and field storage of the oil and gas. The production function
normally terminates at the outlet valve on the lease or field production
storage tank. Production costs are those incurred to operate and maintain the
Corporation s wells and related equipment and facilities and are expensed as
incurred. They become part of the cost of oil and gas produced. These costs,
sometimes referred to as lifting costs, include such items as labor costs to
operate the wells and related equipment; repair and maintenance costs on the
wells and equipment; materials, supplies and energy costs required to operate
the wells and related equipment; and administrative expenses related to the
production activity.   

  The
Corporation performs impairment assessments whenever events or circumstances
indicate that the carrying amounts of its long-lived assets (or group of
assets) may not be recoverable through future operations or disposition. Assets
are grouped at the lowest level for which there are identifiable cash flows
that are largely independent of the cash flows of other groups of assets for
this assessment.   

  Potential
trigger events for impairment evaluation include:  

a significant decrease in the
market price of a long-lived asset;  

a significant adverse change in
the extent or manner in which an asset is being used or in its physical
condition including a significant decrease in current and projected reserve
volumes;  

a significant adverse change in
legal factors or in the business climate that could affect the value, including
an adverse action or assessment by a regulator;  

an accumulation of project costs
significantly in excess of the amount originally expected;  

a current-period operating loss
combined with a history and forecast of operating or cash flow losses; and  

a current expectation that, more
likely than not, a long-lived asset will be sold or otherwise disposed of
significantly before the end of its previously estimated useful life.  

  The
Corporation performs asset valuation analyses on an ongoing basis as a part of
its asset management program. These analyses and other profitability reviews
assist the Corporation in assessing whether the carrying amounts of any of its
assets may not be recoverable.  

  In
general, the Corporation does not view temporarily low prices or margins as a
trigger event for conducting impairment tests. The markets for crude oil,
natural gas and petroleum products, have a history of significant price
volatility. Although prices will occasionally drop significantly, industry
prices over the long term will continue to be driven by market supply and
demand. 

69       

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS

On the supply side, industry production from mature
fields is declining, but this is being offset by production from new
discoveries and field developments. OPEC production policies also have an
impact on world oil supplies. The demand side is largely a function of global
economic growth. The relative growth/decline in supply versus demand will
determine industry prices over the long term, and these cannot be accurately
predicted.   

  If
there were a trigger event, the Corporation estimates the future undiscounted
cash flows of the affected properties to judge the recoverability of carrying
amounts. Cash flows used in impairment evaluations are developed using
estimates for future crude oil and natural gas commodity prices, refining and
chemical margins, and foreign currency exchange rates. Volumes are based on
projected field and facility production profiles, throughput, or sales. These
evaluations make use of the Corporation s price, margin, volume, and cost
assumptions developed in the annual planning and budgeting process, and are
consistent with the criteria management uses to evaluate investment
opportunities. Where unproved reserves exist, an appropriately risk-adjusted
amount of these reserves may be included in the evaluation.  

  An
asset group would be impaired if its undiscounted cash flows were less than the
asset s carrying value. Impairments are measured by the amount by which the
carrying value exceeds fair value. Cash flow estimates for impairment testing
exclude the effects of derivative instruments.  

  Significant
unproved properties are assessed for impairment individually, and valuation
allowances against the capitalized costs are recorded based on the estimated
economic chance of success and the length of time that the Corporation expects
to hold the properties. Properties that are not individually significant are
aggregated by groups and amortized based on development risk and average
holding period.   

  Gains
on sales of proved and unproved properties are only recognized when there is neither
uncertainty about the recovery of costs applicable to any interest retained nor
any substantial obligation for future performance by the Corporation.   

  Losses
on properties sold are recognized when incurred or when the properties are held
for sale and the fair value of the properties is less than the carrying value.  

  Interest
costs incurred to finance expenditures during the construction phase of
multiyear projects are capitalized as part of the historical cost of acquiring
the constructed assets. The project construction phase commences with the
development of the detailed engineering design and ends when the constructed
assets are ready for their intended use. Capitalized interest costs are
included in property, plant and equipment and are depreciated over the service
life of the related assets.   

       Asset Retirement Obligations and Environmental Liabilities.    The Corporation incurs retirement obligations for
certain assets. The fair values of these obligations are recorded as
liabilities on a discounted basis, which is typically at the time the assets
are installed. The costs associated with these liabilities are capitalized as
part of the related assets and depreciated. Over time, the liabilities are
accreted for the change in their present value.   

  Liabilities
for environmental costs are recorded when it is probable that obligations have
been incurred and the amounts can be reasonably estimated. These liabilities
are not reduced by possible recoveries from third parties and projected cash
expenditures are not discounted.   

       Foreign Currency Translation.    The
Corporation selects the functional reporting currency for its international
subsidiaries based on the currency of the primary economic environment in which
each subsidiary operates.   

  Downstream
and Chemical operations primarily use the local currency. However, the U.S.
dollar is used in countries with a history of high inflation (primarily in
Latin America) and Singapore, which predominantly sells into the U.S. dollar
export market. Upstream operations which are relatively self-contained and
integrated within a particular country, such as Canada, the United Kingdom,
Norway and continental Europe, use the local currency. Some Upstream
operations, primarily in Asia and Africa, use the U.S. dollar because they
predominantly sell crude and natural gas production into U.S.
dollar-denominated markets.   

  For
all operations, gains or losses from remeasuring foreign currency transactions
into the functional currency are included in income.   

       Stock-Based Payments.    The Corporation
awards stock-based compensation to employees in the form of restricted stock
and restricted stock units. Compensation expense is measured by the price of
the stock at the date of grant and is recognized in income over the requisite
service period.       

70       

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS

2. Accounting Changes     

   The
Corporation did not adopt authoritative guidance in 2015 that had a material
impact on the Corporation s financial statements.    

   In
May 2014, the Financial Accounting Standards Board issued a new standard,    Revenue
from Contracts with Customers   . The standard establishes a single revenue
recognition model for all contracts with customers, eliminates industry
specific requirements, and expands disclosure requirements. The standard is
required to be adopted beginning January 1, 2018.   

    Sales
and Other Operating Revenue  on the Consolidated Statement of Income includes
sales, excise and value-added taxes on sales transactions. When the Corporation
adopts the standard, revenue will exclude sales-based taxes collected on behalf
of third parties. This change in reporting will not impact earnings.   

   The
Corporation continues to evaluate other areas of the standard and its effect on
the Corporation s financial statements.     

3. Miscellaneous Financial Information     

   Research
and development expenses totaled $1,008 million in 2015, $971 million
in 2014 and $1,044 million in 2013.    

   Net
income included before tax aggregate foreign exchange transaction losses
of $119 million and $225 million in 2015 and 2014, respectively, and
gains of $155 million in 2013.    

   In 2015,
2014 and 2013, net income included a loss of $186 million, and gains of $187 million
and $282 million, respectively, attributable to the combined effects of
LIFO inventory accumulations and drawdowns. The aggregate replacement cost of
inventories was estimated to exceed their LIFO carrying values by $4.5 billion
and $10.6 billion at December 31, 2015, and 2014, respectively.   

   Crude oil, products and merchandise as of year-end 2015 and
2014 consist of the following:      

71       

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS

4.             Other Comprehensive Income Information        

Amounts
  Reclassified Out of Accumulated Other   

Comprehensive
  Income - Before-tax Income/(Expense)   

2015   

2014   

2013   

(millions of dollars)   

Foreign
  exchange translation gain/(loss) included in net income  

(Statement of
  Income line: Other income)  

14   

(152)  

23   

Amortization
  and settlement of postretirement benefits reserves  

adjustment
  included in net periodic benefit costs    (1)    

(2,066)  

(1,571)  

(2,616)  

Realized change
  in fair value of stock investments included in net income  

(Statement of
  Income line: Other income)  

(42)  

(5)   

-    

(1)   These accumulated other comprehensive income components are
included in the computation of net periodic pension cost. (See Note 17  
Pension and Other Postretirement Benefits for additional details.)        

72       

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS

5. Cash Flow Information     

   The
Consolidated Statement of Cash Flows provides information about changes in cash
and cash equivalents. Highly liquid investments with maturities of three months
or less when acquired are classified as cash equivalents.    

   For
2015, the  Net (gain) on asset sales  on the Consolidated Statement of Cash
Flows includes before-tax amounts from the sale of service stations in Europe,
the sale of Upstream properties in the U.S., the sale of ExxonMobil s interests
in Chemical and Refining joint ventures, and the pending sale of the Torrance
refinery. For 2014, the amount includes before-tax gains from the sale of Hong
Kong power operations, additional proceeds related to the 2013 sale of a
partial interest in Iraq, the sale of Downstream affiliates in the Caribbean
and the sale or exchange of Upstream properties in the U.S., Canada, and
Malaysia. For 2013, the amount includes before-tax gains from the sale of a
partial interest in Iraq, the sale of Downstream affiliates in the Caribbean
and the sale of service stations. These net gains are reported in  Other
income  on the Consolidated Statement of Income.   

   In
2015, the  Additions/(reductions) in commercial paper, and debt with three
months or less maturity  on the Consolidated Statement of Cash Flows includes a
net $358 million addition of commercial paper with maturity over three months.
The gross amount issued was $8.1 billion, while the gross amount repaid was
$7.7 billion.    

   In
2015, ExxonMobil completed an asset exchange that resulted in value received of
approximately $500 million including $100 million in cash. The non-cash portion
was not included in the  Sales of subsidiaries, investments, and property,
plant and equipment  or the  All other items-net  lines on the Statement of
Cash Flows. Capital leases of approximately $1 billion were not included in the
 Additions to long-term debt  or  Additions to property, plant and equipment 
lines on the Statement of Cash Flows.   

   In
2014, ExxonMobil completed asset exchanges, primarily non-cash transactions, of
approximately $1.2 billion. This amount is not included in the  Sales of
subsidiaries, investments, and property, plant and equipment  or the  Additions
to property, plant and equipment  lines on the Statement of Cash Flows.     

6. Additional Working Capital Information       

The Corporation has short-term committed
lines of credit of $6.0 billion which were unused as of December 31, 2015. These
lines are available for general corporate purposes      .      

   The
weighted-average interest rate on short-term borrowings outstanding was 0.4 percent
and 0.3 percent at December 31, 2015, and 2014, respectively.      

73       

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS

7. Equity Company Information     

   The
summarized financial information below includes amounts related to certain
less-than-majority-owned companies and majority-owned subsidiaries where
minority shareholders possess the right to participate in significant
management decisions (see Note 1). These companies are primarily engaged in oil
and gas exploration and production, and natural gas marketing in North America;
natural gas exploration, production and distribution, and downstream operations
in Europe; and exploration, production, liquefied natural gas (LNG) operations,
refining operations, petrochemical manufacturing, and fuel sales in Asia. Also
included are several refining, petrochemical manufacturing, and marketing
ventures.    

   The Corporation s
ownership in these ventures is in the form of shares in corporate joint
ventures as well as interests in partnerships. Differences between the
company s carrying value of an equity investment and its underlying equity in
the net assets of the affiliate are assigned to the extent practicable to
specific assets and liabilities based on the company s analysis of the factors
giving rise to the difference. The amortization of this difference, as
appropriate, is included in  income from equity affiliates.     

   The
share of total equity company revenues from sales to ExxonMobil
consolidated companies was 15 percent, 14 percent and 13 percent in the years
2015, 2014 and 2013, respectively.   

   In
2013 and 2014, the Corporation and Rosneft established various entities to
conduct exploration and research activities. Periods of disproportionate
funding will result in the Corporation recognizing, during the early phases of
the projects, an investment that is larger than its equity share in these
entities. These joint ventures are considered Variable Interest Entities. However,
since the Corporation is not the primary beneficiary of these entities, the
joint ventures are reported as equity companies. In 2014, the European Union
and United States imposed sanctions relating to the Russian energy sector. With
respect to the foregoing, each joint venture continues to comply with all applicable
laws, rules and regulations. The Corporation's maximum before-tax exposure to
loss from these joint ventures as of December 31, 2015, is $1.0 billion.     

74       

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS

A list of
significant equity companies as of December 31, 201  5,
together with the Corporation s percentage ownership interest, is detailed
below:       

Percentage   

Ownership   

Interest   

Upstream   

Aera Energy LLC  

48  

BEB Erdgas und
  Erdoel GmbH   Co. KG  

50  

Cameroon Oil
  Transportation Company S.A.  

41  

Cross Timbers
  Energy, LLC  

50  

Golden Pass LNG
  Terminal LLC  

18  

Karmorneftegaz
  Holding SARL  

33  

Marine Well
  Containment Company LLC  

10  

Nederlandse
  Aardolie Maatschappij B.V.  

50  

Qatar Liquefied
  Gas Company Limited  

10  

Qatar Liquefied
  Gas Company Limited (2)  

24  

Ras Laffan
  Liquefied Natural Gas Company Limited  

25  

Ras Laffan
  Liquefied Natural Gas Company Limited (II)  

31  

Ras Laffan
  Liquefied Natural Gas Company Limited (3)  

30  

South Hook LNG
  Terminal Company Limited  

24  

Tengizchevroil,
  LLP  

25  

Terminale GNL
  Adriatico S.r.l.  

71  

Downstream   

Fujian Refining
    Petrochemical Co. Ltd.  

25  

Saudi Aramco
  Mobil Refinery Company Ltd.  

50  

Chemical   

Al-Jubail
  Petrochemical Company  

50  

Infineum
  Holdings B.V.  

50  

Infineum Italia
  s.r.l.  

50  

Infineum USA
  L.P.  

50  

Saudi Yanbu
  Petrochemical Co.  

50  

8. Investments, Advances and Long-Term
Receivables      

75       

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS

9. Property, Plant and Equipment and Asset
Retirement Obligations       

In the Upstream segment, depreciation is
generally on a unit-of-production basis, so depreciable life will vary by
field. In the Downstream segment, investments in refinery and lubes basestock
manufacturing facilities are generally depreciated on a straight-line basis
over a 25-year life and service station buildings and fixed improvements over a
20-year life. In the Chemical segment, investments in process equipment are
generally depreciated on a straight-line basis over a 20-year life.    

   The
Corporation periodically reviews the estimated asset service life of its
property, plant and equipment. Effective January 1, 2016, the Corporation
revised the estimated asset service life of its investments in process
equipment in the Chemical segment to 25 years. This revision will not have a
material impact on the Corporation s financial statements.    

   Accumulated
depreciation and depletion totaled $195,732 million at the end of 2015 and $194,121
million at the end of 2014. Interest capitalized in 2015, 2014 and 2013 was $482
million, $344 million and $309 million, respectively.      

Asset Retirement Obligations     

   The
Corporation incurs retirement obligations for certain assets. The fair values
of these obligations are recorded as liabilities on a discounted basis, which
is typically at the time the assets are installed. In the estimation of fair
value, the Corporation uses assumptions and judgments regarding such factors as
the existence of a legal obligation for an asset retirement obligation;
technical assessments of the assets; estimated amounts and timing of settlements;
discount rates; and inflation rates. Asset retirement obligations incurred in
the current period were Level 3 fair value measurements. The costs associated
with these liabilities are capitalized as part of the related assets and
depreciated as the reserves are produced. Over time, the liabilities are
accreted for the change in their present value.    

   Asset
retirement obligations for downstream and chemical facilities generally become
firm at the time the facilities are permanently shut down and dismantled. These
obligations may include the costs of asset disposal and additional soil
remediation. However, these sites have indeterminate lives based on plans for
continued operations and as such, the fair value of the conditional legal
obligations cannot be measured, since it is impossible to estimate the future
settlement dates of such obligations.      

       The following table summarizes the
activity in the liability for asset retirement obligations:        

76       

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS

10. Accounting for Suspended Exploratory
Well Costs     

   The
Corporation continues capitalization of exploratory well costs when the
well has found a sufficient quantity of reserves to justify its completion as a
producing well and the Corporation is making sufficient progress assessing
the reserves and the economic and operating viability of the project. The term
 project  as used in this report can refer to a variety of different activities
and does not necessarily have the same meaning as in any government payment
transparency reports.   

   The
following two tables provide details of the changes in the balance of suspended
exploratory well costs as well as an aging summary of those costs.   

   Change
in capitalized suspended exploratory well costs:      

Period end capitalized suspended exploratory well costs:      

Exploration
activity often involves drilling multiple wells, over a number of years, to
fully evaluate a project. The table below provides a breakdown of the number of
projects with suspended exploratory well costs which had their first
capitalized well drilled in the preceding 12 months and those that have had
exploratory well costs capitalized for a period greater than 12 months, which
includes the Rosneft joint venture exploration activity (refer to the relevant
portion of Note 7).     

Of the 55 projects that have exploratory well costs capitalized
for a period greater than 12 months as of December 31, 2015, 18 projects
have drilling in the preceding 12 months or exploratory activity either planned
in the next two years or subject to sanctions. The remaining 37 projects are
those with completed exploratory activity progressing toward development.        

77       

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS

The table below provides additional detail
for those 37 projects, which total $1,154 million.    

Years  

Dec. 31,  

Wells  

Country/Project  

2015  

Drilled  

Comment  

(millions of
  dollars)   

Angola  

- Kaombo Split
  Hub Phase 2  

20  

2005 - 2006  

Evaluating
  development plan to tie into planned production facilities.  

-
  Perpetua-Zinia-Acacia  

15  

2008 - 2009  

Oil field near
  Pazflor development, awaiting capacity in existing/planned infrastructure.  

Australia  

- East Pilchard  

7  

2001  

Gas field near
  Kipper/Tuna development, awaiting capacity in existing/planned  

infrastructure.   

- SE Longtom  

11  

2010   

Gas field near
  Tuna development, awaiting capacity in existing/planned infrastructure.  

- SE Remora  

34  

2010   

Gas field near
  Marlin development, awaiting capacity in existing/planned infrastructure.  

Canada  

- Horn River  

241  

2009 - 2012  

Evaluating
  development alternatives to tie into planned infrastructure.  

Indonesia  

- Alas Tua West  

16  

2010  

Evaluating
  development plan to tie into planned production facilities.  

- Cepu Gas  

29  

2008 - 2011  

Development
  activity under way, while continuing commercial discussions with the  

government.   

- Kedung Keris  

11  

2011  

Evaluating
  development plan to tie into planned production facilities.  

- Natuna  

118  

1981 - 1983  

Development
  activity under way, while continuing discussions with the government  

on contract
  terms pursuant to executed Heads of Agreement.  

Kazakhstan  

- Kairan  

53  

2004 - 2007  

Evaluating
  commercialization and field development alternatives, while continuing   

discussions
  with the government regarding the development plan.  

- Kalamkas  

18  

2006 - 2009  

Evaluating
  development alternatives, while continuing discussions with the   

government
  regarding development plan.  

Malaysia  

- Bindu  

2  

1995  

Awaiting
  capacity in existing/planned infrastructure.  

Nigeria  

- Bolia  

15  

2002 - 2006  

Evaluating
  development plan, while continuing discussions with the government  

regarding
  regional hub strategy.  

- Bosi  

79  

2002 - 2006  

Development
  activity under way, while continuing discussions with the government  

regarding
  development plan.  

- Bosi Central  

16  

2006  

Development
  activity under way, while continuing discussions with the government  

regarding
  development plan.  

- Erha
  Northeast  

26  

2008  

Evaluating
  development plan for tieback to existing production facilities.  

- Pegi  

32  

2009   

Awaiting
  capacity in existing/planned infrastructure.  

- Satellite
  Field  

12  

2013   

Evaluating
  development plan to tie into planned production facilities.  

Development
  Phase 2  

- Other (4
  projects)  

14  

2002   

Evaluating and
  pursuing development of several additional discoveries.  

Norway  

- Gamma  

13  

2008 - 2009  

Evaluating
  development plan for tieback to existing production facilities.  

- Lavrans  

15  

1995 - 1999  

Evaluating
  development plan, awaiting capacity in existing Kristin production facility.  

- Other (7
  projects)  

25  

2008 - 2014  

Evaluating
  development plans, including potential for tieback to existing production  

facilities.   

Papua New Guinea  

- Juha  

28  

2007  

Progressing
  development plans to tie into existing LNG facilities.  

Republic of
  Congo  

- Mer Tres
  Profonde Sud  

56  

2000 - 2007  

Evaluating
  development alternatives, while continuing discussions with the government  

regarding
  development plan.  

United Kingdom  

- Phyllis  

8  

2004  

Evaluating
  development plan for tieback to existing production facilities.  

United States  

- Hadrian North  

209  

2010 - 2013  

Evaluating
  development plan to tie into existing production facilities.  

- Tip Top  

31  

2009  

Evaluating
  development concept and requisite facility upgrades.  

Total 2015 (37
  projects)  

1,154  

78       

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS

11. Leased Facilities     

   At
December 31, 2015, the Corporation and its consolidated subsidiaries held
noncancelable operating charters and leases covering drilling equipment,
tankers, service stations and other properties with minimum undiscounted lease
commitments totaling $4,877 million as indicated in the table. Estimated
related rental income from noncancelable subleases is $32 million.      

Net rental cost under both cancelable and noncancelable operating
leases incurred during 2015, 2014 and 2013 were as follows:      

12. Earnings Per Share       

(1)   The earnings per common share and earnings per common share
- assuming dilution are the same in each period shown.         

79       

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS

13. Financial Instruments and Derivatives     

    Financial Instruments.      The fair value of financial instruments
is determined by reference to observable market data and other valuation
techniques as appropriate. The only category of financial instruments where the
difference between fair value and recorded book value is notable is long-term
debt. The estimated fair value of total long-term debt, excluding capitalized
lease obligations, was $18.9 billion and $11.7 billion at December 31, 2015,
and 2014, respectively, as compared to recorded book values of $18.7 billion
and $11.3 billion at December 31, 2015, and 2014, respectively. The increase in
the estimated fair value and book value of long-term debt reflects the Corporation s
issuance of $8.0 billion of long-term debt in the first quarter of 2015.    

   The fair value of long-term debt by
hierarchy level at December 31, 2015, is: Level 1 $18,584 million; Level 2 $208
million; and Level 3 $62 million.       

      Derivative Instruments.      The Corporation s size, strong capital
structure, geographic diversity and the complementary nature of the Upstream,
Downstream and Chemical businesses reduce the Corporation s enterprise-wide
risk from changes in interest rates, currency rates and commodity prices. As a
result, the Corporation makes limited use of derivatives to mitigate the impact
of such changes. The Corporation does not engage in speculative derivative
activities or derivative trading activities nor does it use derivatives with
leveraged features. When the Corporation does enter into derivative
transactions, it is to offset exposures associated with interest rates, foreign
currency exchange rates and hydrocarbon prices that arise from existing assets,
liabilities and forecasted transactions.     

   The
estimated fair value of derivative instruments outstanding and recorded on the
balance sheet was a net asset of $21 million at year-end 2015 and a net asset
of $75 million at year-end 2014. Assets and liabilities associated with
derivatives are usually recorded either in  Other current assets  or  Accounts
payable and accrued liabilities.     

   The
Corporation s fair value measurement of its derivative instruments use either
Level 1 or Level 2 inputs.    

   The
Corporation recognized a before-tax gain or (loss) related to derivative
instruments of $39 million, $110 million and $(7) million during 2015, 2014
and 2013, respectively. Income statement effects associated with derivatives are
usually recorded either in  Sales and other operating revenue  or  Crude oil
and product purchases.      

   The
Corporation believes there are no material market or credit risks to the
Corporation s financial position, results of operations or liquidity as a
result of the derivative activities described above.      

80       

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS

14. Long-Term Debt     

   At
December 31, 2015, long-term debt consisted of $19,217 million due
in U.S. dollars and $708 million representing the U.S. dollar equivalent
at year-end exchange rates of amounts payable in foreign currencies. These
amounts exclude that portion of long-term debt, totaling $558 million, which
matures within one year and is included in current liabilities. The increase in
the book value of long-term debt reflects the Corporation s issuance of $8.0
billion of long-term debt in the first quarter of 2015. The amounts of
long-term debt, including capitalized lease obligations, maturing in each of
the four years after December 31, 2016, in millions of dollars, are: 2017
  $2,959; 2018   $2,967; 2019   $2,374; and 2020   $1,602.
At December 31, 2015, the Corporation s unused long-term credit lines were $0.4
billion.   

   Summarized
long-term debt at year-end 2015 and 2014 are shown in the table below:      

(1)   Average effective interest rate of
0.3% in 2015 and 0.3% in 2014.    

    (2)   Average effective interest rate of
0.4% in 2015.    

    (3)   Average effective interest rate of
0.5% in 2015 and 0.4% in 2014.    

    (4)   Average effective interest rate of
0.7% in 2015.    

    (5)   Includes premiums of $179 million in
2015 and $219 million in 2014.    

    (6)   Average effective interest rate of
4.6% in 2015 and 4.5% in 2014.     

    (7)   Average effective interest rate of 2.1%
in 2015 and 2.4% in 2014.     

    (8)   Average effective interest rate of 0.02%
in 2015 and 0.03% in 2014.     

    (9)   Average effective interest rate of
3.8% in 2015 and 4.2% in 2014.    

    (10) Average imputed interest rate of 9.2%
in 2015 and 7.0% in 2014.        

81       

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS

15. Incentive Program     

   The 2003 Incentive Program provides for grants of stock
options, stock appreciation rights (SARs), restricted stock and other forms of
award. Awards may be granted to eligible employees of the Corporation and those
affiliates at least 50 percent owned. Outstanding awards are subject to certain
forfeiture provisions contained in the program or award instrument. Options and
SARs may be granted at prices not less than 100 percent of market value on the
date of grant and have a maximum life of 10 years. The maximum number of shares
of stock that may be issued under the 2003 Incentive Program is 220 million.
Awards that are forfeited, expire or are settled in cash, do not count against
this maximum limit. The 2003 Incentive Program does not have a specified term.
New awards may be made until the available shares are depleted, unless the
Board terminates the plan early. At the end of 2015, remaining shares available
for award under the 2003 Incentive Program were 100     million.

Restricted
Stock and Restricted Stock Units.      Awards totaling 9,681 thousand, 9,775 thousand, and 9,729 thousand
of restricted (nonvested) common stock units were granted in 2015, 2014 and 2013,
respectively. Compensation expense for these awards is based on the price of
the stock at the date of grant and is recognized in income over the requisite
service period. Shares for these awards are issued to employees from treasury
stock. The units that are settled in cash are recorded as liabilities and their
changes in fair value are recognized over the vesting period. During the
applicable restricted periods, the shares and units may not be sold or transferred
and are subject to forfeiture. The majority of the awards have graded vesting
periods, with 50 percent of the shares and units in each award vesting after
three years and the remaining 50 percent vesting after seven years. Awards
granted to a small number of senior executives have vesting periods of five
years for 50 percent of the award and of 10 years or retirement, whichever
occurs later, for the remaining 50 percent of the award.    

   The
Corporation has purchased shares in the open market and through negotiated
transactions to offset shares issued in conjunction with benefit plans and
programs. Purchases may be discontinued at any time without prior notice.   

   The
following tables summarize information about restricted stock and restricted
stock units for the year ended December 31, 2015.      

As of December 31, 2015, there was $2,222
million of unrecognized compensation cost related to the nonvested restricted
awards. This cost is expected to be recognized over a weighted-average period
of 4.5 years. The compensation cost charged against income for the restricted
stock and restricted stock units was $855 million, $831 million and $854
million for 2015, 2014 and 2013, respectively. The income tax benefit
recognized in income related to this compensation expense was $78 million, $76
million and $78 million for the same periods, respectively. The fair value of
shares and units vested in 2015, 2014 and 2013 was $808 million, $946 million
and $1,040 million, respectively. Cash payments of $64 million, $73 million and
$67 million for vested restricted stock units settled in cash were made in 2015,
2014 and 2013, respectively.     

82       

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS

16. Litigation and Other Contingencies     

    Litigation.
     A variety of claims have
been made against ExxonMobil and certain of its consolidated subsidiaries in a
number of pending lawsuits. Management has regular litigation reviews,
including updates from corporate and outside counsel, to assess the need for accounting
recognition or disclosure of these contingencies. The Corporation accrues an
undiscounted liability for those contingencies where the incurrence of a loss
is probable and the amount can be reasonably estimated. If a range of amounts
can be reasonably estimated and no amount within the range is a better estimate
than any other amount, then the minimum of the range is accrued. The
Corporation does not record liabilities when the likelihood that the liability
has been incurred is probable but the amount cannot be reasonably estimated or
when the liability is believed to be only reasonably possible or remote. For
contingencies where an unfavorable outcome is reasonably possible and which are
significant, the Corporation discloses the nature of the contingency and, where
feasible, an estimate of the possible loss. For purposes of our contingency
disclosures,  significant  includes material matters as well as other matters
which management believes should be disclosed. ExxonMobil will continue to
defend itself vigorously in these matters. Based on a consideration of all
relevant facts and circumstances, the Corporation does not believe the ultimate
outcome of any currently pending lawsuit against ExxonMobil will have a
material adverse effect upon the Corporation s operations, financial condition,
or financial statements taken as a whole.   

    Other
Contingencies.      The
Corporation and certain of its consolidated subsidiaries were contingently
liable at December 31, 2015, for guarantees relating to notes, loans
and performance under contracts. Where guarantees for environmental remediation
and other similar matters do not include a stated cap, the amounts reflect
management s estimate of the maximum potential exposure.      

Additionally, the Corporation and its affiliates have numerous
long-term sales and purchase commitments in their various business activities,
all of which are expected to be fulfilled with no adverse consequences material
to the Corporation s operations or financial condition. Unconditional purchase
obligations as defined by accounting standards are those long-term commitments
that are noncancelable or cancelable only under certain conditions, and that
third parties have used to secure financing for the facilities that will
provide the contracted goods or services.     

(1)   Undiscounted obligations of $936 million mainly pertain to
pipeline throughput agreements and include $411 million of obligations to
equity companies. The present value of these commitments, which excludes
imputed interest of $144 million, totaled $792 million.         

83       

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS

In accordance
with a nationalization decree issued by Venezuela s president in February 2007,
by May 1, 2007, a subsidiary of the Venezuelan National Oil Company (PdVSA)
assumed the operatorship of the Cerro Negro Heavy Oil Project. This Project had
been operated and owned by ExxonMobil affiliates holding a 41.67 percent
ownership interest in the Project. The decree also required conversion of the
Cerro Negro Project into a  mixed enterprise  and an increase in PdVSA s or one
of its affiliate s ownership interest in the Project, with the stipulation that
if ExxonMobil refused to accept the terms for the formation of the mixed
enterprise within a specified period of time, the government would  directly
assume the activities  carried out by the joint venture. ExxonMobil refused to
accede to the terms proffered by the government, and on June 27, 2007, the
government expropriated ExxonMobil s 41.67 percent interest in the Cerro Negro
Project.   

   On September 6, 2007, affiliates of
ExxonMobil filed a Request for Arbitration with the International Centre for
Settlement of Investment Disputes (ICSID). The ICSID Tribunal issued a decision
on June 10, 2010, finding that it had jurisdiction to proceed on the basis of
the Netherlands-Venezuela Bilateral Investment Treaty. On October 9, 2014, the
ICSID Tribunal issued its final award finding in favor of the ExxonMobil affiliates
and awarding $1.6 billion as of the date of expropriation, June 27, 2007, and
interest from that date at 3.25% compounded annually until the date of payment
in full. The Tribunal also noted that one of the Cerro Negro Project agreements
provides a mechanism to prevent double recovery between the ICSID award and all
or part of an earlier award of $908 million to an ExxonMobil affiliate, Mobil
Cerro Negro, Ltd., against PdVSA and a PdVSA affiliate, PdVSA CN, in an
arbitration under the rules of the International Chamber of Commerce.    

   On
June 12, 2015, the Tribunal rejected in its entirety Venezuela s October 23,
2014, application to revise the ICSID award. The Tribunal also lifted the
associated stay of enforcement that had been entered upon the filing of the
application to revise.    

   Still
pending is Venezuela s February 2, 2015, application to ICSID seeking annulment
of the ICSID award. That application alleges that, in issuing the ICSID award,
the Tribunal exceeded its powers, failed to state reasons on which the ICSID
award was based, and departed from a fundamental rule of procedure. A separate
stay of the ICSID award was entered following the filing of the annulment
application. On July 7, 2015, the ICSID Committee considering the annulment
application heard arguments from the parties on whether to lift the stay of the
award associated with that application. On July 28, 2015, the Committee issued
an order that would lift the stay of enforcement unless, within 30 days,
Venezuela delivered a commitment to pay the award if the application to annul
is denied. On September 17, 2015, the Committee ruled that Venezuela had
complied with the requirement to submit a written commitment to pay the award
and so left the stay of enforcement in place. A hearing on Venezuela s application
for annulment, previously scheduled for January 25-27, 2016, has been
rescheduled for March 8-9, 2016.     

   The
United States District Court for the Southern District of New York entered
judgment on the ICSID award on October 10, 2014. Motions filed by Venezuela to
vacate that judgment on procedural grounds and to modify the judgment by
reducing the rate of interest to be paid on the ICSID award from the entry of
the court s judgment, until the date of payment, were denied on February 13,
2015, and March 4, 2015, respectively. On March 9, 2015, Venezuela filed a
notice of appeal of the court s actions on the two motions. Oral arguments on
this appeal were held before the United States Court of Appeals for the Second
Circuit on January 7, 2016.   

   The
District Court s judgment on the ICSID award is currently stayed until such
time as ICSID s stay of the award entered following Venezuela s filing of its
application to annul has been lifted. The net impact of these matters on the
Corporation s consolidated financial results cannot be reasonably estimated.
Regardless, the Corporation does not expect the resolution to have a material
effect upon the Corporation s operations or financial condition.    

   An
affiliate of ExxonMobil is one of the Contractors under a Production Sharing
Contract (PSC) with the Nigerian National Petroleum Corporation (NNPC) covering
the Erha block located in the offshore waters of Nigeria. ExxonMobil's
affiliate is the operator of the block and owns a 56.25 percent interest under
the PSC. The Contractors are in dispute with NNPC regarding NNPC's lifting of
crude oil in excess of its entitlement under the terms of the PSC. In
accordance with the terms of the PSC, the Contractors initiated arbitration in
Abuja, Nigeria, under the Nigerian Arbitration and Conciliation Act. On October
24, 2011, a three-member arbitral Tribunal issued an award upholding the Contractors'
position in all material respects and awarding damages to the Contractors
jointly in an amount of approximately $1.8 billion plus $234 million in accrued
interest. The Contractors petitioned a Nigerian federal court for enforcement
of the award, and NNPC petitioned the same court to have the award set aside.
On May 22, 2012, the court set aside the award. The Contractors appealed that
judgment to the Court of Appeal, Abuja Judicial Division. In June 2013, the
Contractors filed a lawsuit against NNPC in the Nigerian federal high court in
order to preserve their ability to seek enforcement of the PSC in the courts if
necessary. In October 2014, the Contractors filed suit in the United States
District Court for the Southern District of New York to enforce, if necessary,
the arbitration award against NNPC assets residing within that jurisdiction.
NNPC has moved to dismiss the lawsuit. Proceedings in the Southern District of
New York are currently stayed. At this time, the net impact of this matter on
the Corporation's consolidated financial results cannot be reasonably
estimated. However, regardless of the outcome of enforcement proceedings, the
Corporation does not expect the proceedings to have a material effect upon the
Corporation's operations or financial condition.       

84       

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS

17. Pension and Other Postretirement
Benefits     

   The
benefit obligations and plan assets associated with the Corporation s principal
benefit plans are measured on December 31.      

(1)           Benefit
payments for funded and unfunded plans.    

    (2)           For 2015 and 2014, other postretirement benefits paid are
net of $15 million and $21 million of Medicare subsidy receipts, respectively.        

For selection of the discount rate for
U.S. plans, several sources of information are considered, including interest
rate market indicators and the discount rate determined by use of a yield curve
based on high-quality, noncallable bonds with cash flows that match estimated
outflows for benefit payments. For major non-U.S. plans, the discount rate is
determined by using bond portfolios with an average maturity approximating that
of the liabilities or spot yield curves, both of which are constructed
using high-quality, local-currency-denominated bonds.    

   The measurement of the accumulated
postretirement benefit obligation assumes a health care cost trend rate of 4.5
percent in 2017 and subsequent years. A one-percentage-point increase in the health
care cost trend rate would increase service and interest cost by $88 million
and the postretirement benefit obligation by $963 million. A one-percentage-point
decrease in the health care cost trend rate would decrease service and interest
cost by $66 million and the postretirement benefit obligation by $764 million.     

(1)   Benefit payments for funded plans.         

85       

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS

The funding levels of all qualified
pension plans are in compliance with standards set by applicable law or
regulation. As shown in the table below, certain smaller U.S. pension plans and
a number of non-U.S. pension plans are not funded because local tax conventions
and regulatory practices do not encourage funding of these plans. All
defined benefit pension obligations, regardless of the funding status
of the underlying plans, are fully supported by the financial strength
of the Corporation or the respective sponsoring affiliate.      

The authoritative guidance for defined
benefit pension and other postretirement plans requires an employer to
recognize the overfunded or underfunded status of a defined benefit
postretirement plan as an asset or liability in its statement of financial position
and to recognize changes in that funded status in the year in which the changes
occur through other comprehensive income.      

(1)     Fair value of assets less benefit obligation shown on the
preceding page.                 

86       

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS

The long-term
expected rate of return on funded assets shown below is established for each
benefit plan by developing a forward-looking, long-term return assumption for
each asset class, taking into account factors such as the expected real
return for the specific asset class and inflation. A single, long-term rate of
return is then calculated as the weighted average of the target asset
allocation percentages and the long-term return assumption for each asset class.     

Costs for defined contribution plans were
$405 million, $393 million and $392 million in 2015, 2014 and 2013,
respectively.      

87       

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS

A summary of
the change in accumulated other comprehensive income is shown in the table
below:        

The Corporation s investment strategy for
benefit plan assets reflects a long-term view, a careful assessment of the
risks inherent in various asset classes and broad diversification to reduce the
risk of the portfolio. The benefit plan assets are primarily invested in
passive equity and fixed income index funds to diversify risk while
minimizing costs. The equity funds hold ExxonMobil stock only to the extent
necessary to replicate the relevant equity index. The fixed income funds are
largely invested in high-quality corporate and government debt securities.    

   Studies
are periodically conducted to establish the preferred target asset allocation
percentages. The target asset allocation for the U.S. benefit plans and the major
non-U.S. plans is 40 percent equity securities and 60 percent debt securities.
The equity targets for the U.S. and non-U.S. plans include an allocation to
private equity partnerships that primarily focus on early-stage venture capital
of 5 percent and 3 percent, respectively.    

   The
fair value measurement levels are accounting terms that refer to different
methods of valuing assets. The terms do not represent the relative risk or
credit quality of an investment.      

88       

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS

The 2015 fair value of the benefit plan assets, including the
level within the fair value hierarchy, is shown in the tables below:       

(1)   For U.S. and non-U.S. equity securities held in the form of
fund units that are redeemable at the measurement date, the unit value is
treated as a Level 2 input. The fair value of the securities owned by the funds
is based on observable quoted prices on active exchanges, which are Level 1
inputs.    

    (2)   For non-U.S. equity securities held
in separate accounts, fair value is based on observable quoted prices on active
exchanges.     

    (3)   For private equity, fair value is
generally established by using revenue or earnings multiples or other relevant
market data including Initial Public Offerings.     

    (4)   For corporate, government and
asset-backed debt securities, fair value is based on observable inputs of
comparable market transactions.     

    (5)   For corporate and government debt
securities that are traded on active exchanges, fair value is based on
observable quoted prices.     

    (6)   For cash balances held in the form
of short-term fund units that are redeemable at the measurement date, the fair
value is treated as a Level 2 input.    

    (7)   For cash balances that are subject
to withdrawal penalties or other adjustments, the fair value is treated as a
Level 2 input.    

89       

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS

(1)  For U.S. and non-U.S. equity securities held in the form of
fund units that are redeemable at the measurement date, the unit value is
treated as a Level 2 input. The fair value of the securities owned by the funds
is based on observable quoted prices on active exchanges, which are Level 1
inputs.    

    (2)  For corporate, government and
asset-backed debt securities, fair value is based on observable inputs of
comparable market transactions.         

The change in the fair value in 2015 of Level 3 assets that use
significant unobservable inputs to measure fair value is shown in the table
below:      

90       

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS

The 2014 fair value of the benefit plan
assets, including the level within the fair value hierarchy, is shown in the
tables below:      

(1)   For U.S. and non-U.S. equity securities held in the form of
fund units that are redeemable at the measurement date, the unit value is
treated as a Level 2 input. The fair value of the securities owned by the funds
is based on observable quoted prices on active exchanges, which are Level 1
inputs.     

    (2)   For non-U.S. equity securities held
in separate accounts, fair value is based on observable quoted prices on active
exchanges.     

    (3)   For private equity, fair value is
generally established by using revenue or earnings multiples or other relevant
market data including Initial Public Offerings.     

    (4)   For corporate, government and
asset-backed debt securities, fair value is based on observable inputs of
comparable market transactions.     

    (5)   For corporate and government debt
securities that are traded on active exchanges, fair value is based on
observable quoted prices.     

    (6)   For real estate funds, fair value is
based on appraised values developed using comparable market transactions.     

    (7)   For cash balances held in the form
of short-term fund units that are redeemable at the measurement date, the fair
value is treated as a Level 2 input.    

    (8)   For cash balances that are subject
to withdrawal penalties or other adjustments, the fair value is treated as a
Level 2 input.    

91       

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS

(1)   For U.S. and non-U.S. equity securities held in the form of
fund units that are redeemable at the measurement date, the unit value is
treated as a Level 2 input. The fair value of the securities owned by the funds
is based on observable quoted prices on active exchanges, which are Level 1
inputs.     

    (2)   For private equity, fair value is
generally established by using revenue or earnings multiples or other relevant
market data including Initial Public Offerings.     

    (3)   For corporate, government and
asset-backed debt securities, fair value is based on observable inputs of
comparable market transactions.         

The change in the fair value in 2014 of Level 3 assets that use
significant unobservable inputs to measure fair value is shown in the table
below:      

92       

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS

A summary of pension plans with an
accumulated benefit obligation in excess of plan assets is shown in the table
below:      

(1)   The Corporation amortizes the net balance of actuarial
losses/(gains) as a component of net periodic benefit cost over the average
remaining service period of active plan participants.     

    (2)   The Corporation amortizes prior
service cost on a straight-line basis as permitted under authoritative guidance
for defined benefit pension and other postretirement benefit plans.         

18. Disclosures about Segments and Related
Information     

   The
Upstream, Downstream and Chemical functions best define the operating segments
of the business that are reported separately. The factors used to identify
these reportable segments are based on the nature of the operations that are
undertaken by each segment. The Upstream segment is organized and operates to
explore for and produce crude oil and natural gas. The Downstream segment is
organized and operates to manufacture and sell petroleum products. The Chemical
segment is organized and operates to manufacture and sell petrochemicals. These
segments are broadly understood across the petroleum and petrochemical
industries.    

   These
functions have been defined as the operating segments of the Corporation
because they are the segments (1) that engage in business activities from
which revenues are earned and expenses are incurred; (2) whose operating
results are regularly reviewed by the Corporation s chief operating decision
maker to make decisions about resources to be allocated to the segment and to
assess its performance; and (3) for which discrete financial information
is available.    

   Earnings
after income tax include transfers at estimated market prices.    

93       

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS

In corporate and financing activities,
interest revenue relates to interest earned on cash deposits and
marketable securities. Interest expense includes non-debt-related
interest expense of $100 million and $129 million in 2015 and 2014,
respectively. For 2013, non-debt-related interest expense was a net credit of
$123 million, primarily reflecting the effect of credits from the favorable
resolution of prior year tax positions.     

(1)  Sales
and other operating revenue includes sales-based taxes of $22,678 million for
2015, $29,342 million for 2014 and $30,589 million for 2013. See Note 1,
Summary of Accounting Policies.         

94       

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS

(1)  Sales and other operating revenue includes sales-based taxes
of $22,678 million for 2015, $29,342 million for 2014 and $30,589 million for
2013. See Note 1, Summary of Accounting Policies.         

95       

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS

19. Income, Sales-Based and Other Taxes       

(1)   In 2014, state taxes included a favorable adjustment of
deferred taxes of approximately $830 million.         

All other taxes and duties include taxes
reported in production and manufacturing and selling, general and
administrative (SG A) expenses. The above provisions for deferred income
taxes include a net charge of $177 million in 2015 and net credits of $40
million in 2014 and $310 million in 2013 for the effect of changes in tax laws
and rates.      

The reconciliation between income tax expense and a theoretical
U.S. tax computed by applying a rate of 35 percent for 2015, 2014 and 2013
is as follows:      

96       

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS

Deferred income taxes reflect the impact
of temporary differences between the amount of assets and liabilities
recognized for financial reporting purposes and such amounts recognized for tax
purposes.    

   Deferred tax liabilities/(assets) are comprised of the
following at December 31:      

In 2015, asset valuation allowances of
$1,730 million decreased by $840 million and included net provisions of $681
million and effects of foreign currency translation of $159 million.     

   Deferred
income tax (assets) and liabilities are included in the balance sheet as shown
below. Deferred income tax (assets) and liabilities are classified as current
or long term consistent with the classification of the related temporary
difference   separately by tax jurisdiction.      

The Corporation had $51 billion of
indefinitely reinvested, undistributed earnings from subsidiary companies
outside the U.S. that were retained to fund prior and future capital project
expenditures. Deferred taxes have not been recorded for potential future tax
obligations as these earnings are expected to be indefinitely reinvested for
the foreseeable future. As of December 31, 2015, it is not practical to
estimate the unrecognized deferred tax liability associated with these earnings
given the future availability of foreign tax credits and uncertainties about the
timing of potential remittances      .   

97       

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS

Unrecognized Tax Benefits.      The Corporation is subject to income
taxation in many jurisdictions around the world. Unrecognized tax benefits
reflect the difference between positions taken or expected to be taken on
income tax returns and the amounts recognized in the financial statements. The
following table summarizes the movement in unrecognized tax benefits:      

The gross unrecognized tax benefit
balances shown above are predominantly related to tax positions that would
reduce the Corporation s effective tax rate if the positions are favorably
resolved. Unfavorable resolution of these tax positions generally would not
increase the effective tax rate. The 2015, 2014 and 2013 changes in
unrecognized tax benefits did not have a material effect on the Corporation s
net income.    

   Resolution
of these tax positions through negotiations with the relevant tax authorities
or through litigation will take many years to complete. It is difficult to
predict the timing of resolution for tax positions since such timing is not
entirely within the control of the Corporation. In the United States, the
Corporation has various U.S. federal income tax positions at issue with the
Internal Revenue Service for tax years 2006-2011. Unfavorable resolution of
these issues would not have a materially adverse effect on the Corporation s
net income or liquidity. The Internal Revenue Service has not completed its
audit of tax years after 2011.   

   It
is reasonably possible that the total amount of unrecognized tax benefits could
increase by up to 20 percent in the next 12 months, with no material impact on
the Corporation s net income.   

   The following table summarizes the tax years that remain
subject to examination by major tax jurisdiction:      

The Corporation classifies interest on
income tax-related balances as interest expense or interest income and
classifies tax-related penalties as operating expense.    

   The Corporation
incurred $39 million and $42 million in interest expense on income tax reserves
in 2015 and 2014, respectively. For 2013, the Corporation s net interest
expense was a credit of $207 million, reflecting the effect of credits from the
favorable resolution of prior year tax positions. The related interest payable
balances were $223 million and $205 million at December 31, 2015, and 2014,
respectively.     

98       

SUPPLEMENTAL              INFORMATION      
         ON              OIL              AND              GAS              EXPLORATION              AND              PRODUCTION              ACTIVITIES      
       (unaudited)       

The results of operations for producing
activities shown below do not include earnings from other activities that
ExxonMobil includes in the Upstream function, such as oil and gas
transportation operations, LNG liquefaction and transportation operations, coal
and power operations, technical service agreements, other nonoperating
activities and adjustments for noncontrolling interests. These excluded amounts
for both consolidated and equity companies totaled $831 million in 2015, $3,223
million in 2014, and $886 million in 2013. Oil sands mining operations are
included in the results of operations in accordance with Securities and
Exchange Commission and Financial Accounting Standards Board rules.   

99       

100       

Oil and
Gas Exploration and Production Costs     

   The amounts shown for net capitalized costs of consolidated
subsidiaries are $14,685 million less at year-end 2015 and $12,856 million less
at year-end 2014 than the amounts reported as investments in property, plant
and equipment for the Upstream in Note 9. This is due to the
exclusion from capitalized costs of certain transportation and research assets
and assets relating to LNG operations. Assets related to oil sands and oil
shale mining operations are included in the capitalized costs in accordance
with Financial Accounting Standards Board rules.   

101       

Oil and
Gas Exploration and Production Costs (continued)     

   The
amounts reported as costs incurred include both capitalized costs and costs
charged to expense during the year. Costs incurred also include new asset
retirement obligations established in the current year, as well as increases or
decreases to the asset retirement obligation resulting from changes in cost
estimates or abandonment date. Total consolidated costs incurred in 2015 were $21,887
million, down $7,228 million from 2014, due primarily to lower development
costs and property acquisition costs. In 2014 costs were $29,115 million, down
$4,508 million from 2013, due primarily to lower property acquisition costs and
development costs. Total equity company costs incurred in 2015 were $1,464
million, down $1,213 million from 2014, due primarily to exploration costs.    

102       

Oil and
Gas Reserves     

   The following information describes changes during the
years and balances of proved oil and gas reserves at year-end 2013, 2014, and
2015.    

   The
definitions used are in accordance with the Securities and Exchange
Commission s Rule 4-10 (a) of Regulation S-X.    

   Proved
oil and gas reserves are those quantities of oil and gas, which, by analysis of
geoscience and engineering data, can be estimated with reasonable certainty to
be economically producible   from a given date forward, from known reservoirs,
and under existing economic conditions, operating methods and government
regulations   prior to the time at which contracts providing the right to
operate expire, unless evidence indicates that renewal is reasonably certain.
In some cases, substantial new investments in additional wells and related
facilities will be required to recover these proved reserves.    

   In
accordance with the Securities and Exchange Commission s (SEC) rules, the
year-end reserves volumes as well as the reserves change categories shown in
the following tables were calculated using average prices during the 12-month
period prior to the ending date of the period covered by the report, determined
as an unweighted arithmetic average of the first-day-of-the-month price for
each month within such period. These reserves quantities are also used in
calculating unit-of-production depreciation rates and in calculating the
standardized measure of discounted net cash flow.    

   Revisions
can include upward or downward changes in previously estimated volumes of
proved reserves for existing fields due to the evaluation or re-evaluation of
(1) already available geologic, reservoir or production data, (2) new
geologic, reservoir or production data or (3) changes in average prices
and year-end costs that are used in the estimation of reserves. This category
can also include significant changes in either development strategy or
production equipment/facility capacity.    

   When
crude oil and natural gas prices are in the range seen in late 2015 and early
2016 for an extended period of time, under the SEC definition of proved
reserves, certain quantities of oil and natural gas, such as oil sands operations
in Canada and natural gas operations in North America could temporarily not
qualify as proved reserves. Amounts that could be required to be de-booked as
proved reserves on an SEC basis are subject to being re-booked as proved
reserves at some point in the future when price levels recover, costs decline,
or operating efficiencies occur. Under the terms of certain contractual
arrangements or government royalty regimes, lower prices can also increase
proved reserves attributable to ExxonMobil. We do not expect any temporary
changes in reported proved reserves under SEC definitions to affect the
operation of the underlying projects or to alter our outlook for future
production volumes.   

   Proved
reserves include 100 percent of each majority-owned affiliate s participation
in proved reserves and ExxonMobil s ownership percentage of the proved reserves
of equity companies, but exclude royalties and quantities due others. Gas
reserves exclude the gaseous equivalent of liquids expected to be removed from
the gas on leases, at field facilities and at gas processing plants. These
liquids are included in net proved reserves of crude oil and natural gas
liquids.    

   In
the proved reserves tables, consolidated reserves and equity company reserves
are reported separately. However, the Corporation does not view equity company
reserves any differently than those from consolidated companies.    

   Reserves
reported under production sharing and other nonconcessionary agreements are
based on the economic interest as defined by the specific fiscal terms in the
agreement. The production and reserves that we report for these types of
arrangements typically vary inversely with oil and gas price changes. As oil
and gas prices increase, the cash flow and value received by the company
increase; however, the production volumes and reserves required to achieve this
value will typically be lower because of the higher prices. When prices
decrease, the opposite effect generally occurs. The percentage of total liquids
and natural gas proved reserves (consolidated subsidiaries plus equity
companies) at year-end 2015 that were associated with production sharing
contract arrangements was 10 percent of liquids, 10 percent of natural gas and 10
percent on an oil-equivalent basis (gas converted to oil-equivalent at 6
billion cubic feet = 1 million barrels).    

   Net
proved developed reserves are those volumes that are expected to be recovered
through existing wells with existing equipment and operating methods or in
which the cost of the required equipment is relatively minor compared to the
cost of a new well. Net proved undeveloped reserves are those volumes that are
expected to be recovered from new wells on undrilled acreage, or from existing
wells where a relatively major expenditure is required for recompletion.    

   Crude
oil and natural gas liquids and natural gas production quantities shown are the
net volumes withdrawn from ExxonMobil s oil and gas reserves. The natural gas
quantities differ from the quantities of gas delivered for sale by the
producing function as reported in the Operating Summary due to volumes consumed
or flared and inventory changes.    

   The
changes between 2014 year-end proved reserves and 2015 year-end proved reserves
primarily reflect extensions and purchases in the United States and Asia, and
revisions in the United States and Canada. Due to low natural gas prices during
2015, the Corporation reclassified approximately 4,800 billion cubic feet of
natural gas reserves in the United States which no longer meet the SEC
definition of proved reserves.   

103       

(      See       footnote on next page)     

104       

(1)   Includes total proved reserves
attributable to Imperial Oil Limited of 11 million barrels in 2013, 8 million
barrels in 2014 and 7 million barrels in 2015, as well as proved developed
reserves of 9 million barrels in 2013, 5 million barrels in 2014 and 4 million
barrels in 2015, and in addition, proved undeveloped reserves of 2 million
barrels in 2013, 3 million barrels in 2014 and 3 million in 2015, in which there
is a 30.4 percent noncontrolling interest.    

105       

(1)   Includes total proved reserves
attributable to Imperial Oil Limited of 62 million barrels in 2013, 46 million
barrels in 2014 and 34 million barrels in 2015, as well as proved developed
reserves of 55 million barrels in 2013, 36 million barrels in 2014 and 23
million barrels in 2015, and in addition, proved undeveloped reserves of 7
million barrels in 2013, 10 million barrels in 2014 and 11 million barrels in
2015, in which there is a 30.4 percent noncontrolling interest.     

    (2)   Includes total proved reserves
attributable to Imperial Oil Limited of 2,867 million barrels in 2013, 3,274
million barrels in 2014 and 3,515 million barrels in 2015, as well as proved
developed reserves of 1,417 million barrels in 2013, 1,635 million barrels in
2014 and 3,063 million barrels in 2015, and in addition, proved undeveloped
reserves of 1,450 million barrels in 2013, 1,639 million barrels in 2014 and 452
million barrels in 2015, in which there is a 30.4 percent noncontrolling
interest.     

    (3)   Includes total proved reserves
attributable to Imperial Oil Limited of 579 million barrels in 2013, 534
million barrels in 2014 and 581 million barrels in 2015, as well as proved
developed reserves of 579 million barrels in 2013, 534 million barrels in 2014
and 581 million barrels in 2015, in which there is a 30.4 percent noncontrolling
interest.     

    (4)   See previous pages for natural gas
liquids proved reserves attributable to consolidated subsidiaries and equity
companies. For additional information on natural gas liquids proved reserves
see Item 2. Properties in ExxonMobil s 2015 Form 10-K.     

106       

(See footnotes
on next page)     

107       

(1)   Includes total proved reserves
attributable to Imperial Oil Limited of 678 billion cubic feet in 2013, 627
billion cubic feet in 2014 and 583 billion cubic feet in 2015, as well as proved
developed reserves of 368 billion cubic feet in 2013, 300 billion cubic feet in
2014 and 283 billion cubic feet in 2015, and in addition, proved undeveloped
reserves of 310 billion cubic feet in 2013, 327 billion cubic feet in 2014 and 300
billion cubic feet in 2015, in which there is a 30.4 percent noncontrolling
interest.     

    (2)   Natural gas is converted to
oil-equivalent basis at six million cubic feet per one thousand barrels.     

108       

(See footnotes
on previous page)     

109       

Standardized Measure of Discounted Future Cash Flows     

   As required by the Financial Accounting
Standards Board, the standardized measure of discounted future net cash flows
is computed by applying first-day-of-the-month average prices,
year-end costs and legislated tax rates and a discount factor of 10 percent
to net proved reserves. The standardized measure includes costs for
future dismantlement, abandonment and rehabilitation obligations.
The Corporation believes the standardized measure does not provide
a reliable estimate of the Corporation s expected future cash flows to be
obtained from the development and production of its oil and gas properties or
of the value of its proved oil and gas reserves. The standardized measure is
prepared on the basis of certain prescribed assumptions including
first-day-of-the-month average prices, which represent discrete points in time
and therefore may cause significant variability in cash flows from year to year
as prices change.    

(1)   Includes discounted future net cash
flows attributable to Imperial Oil Limited of $25,160 million in 2013, in which
there is a 30.4 percent noncontrolling interest.     

110       

(1)   Includes discounted future net cash
flows attributable to Imperial Oil Limited of $30,189 million in 2014 and $5,607
million in 2015, in which there is a 30.4 percent noncontrolling interest.     

111       

Change in Standardized Measure of
Discounted Future Net Cash Flows Relating to Proved Oil and Gas Reserves     

112       

Change in Standardized Measure of
Discounted Future Net Cash Flows Relating to Proved Oil and Gas Reserves     

113       

OPERATING SUMMARY (unaudited          )      

Operating statistics include 100 percent
of operations of majority-owned subsidiaries; for other companies, crude
production, gas, petroleum product and chemical prime product sales include
ExxonMobil s ownership percentage and refining throughput includes quantities
processed for ExxonMobil. Net production excludes royalties and quantities due
others when produced, whether payment is made in kind or cash.     

    (1)   Gas converted to oil-equivalent at
6 million cubic feet = 1 thousand barrels.     

    (2)   Petroleum product and chemical prime
product sales data reported net of purchases/sales contracts with the same
counterparty.     

    (3)   Prime product sales are total
product sales excluding carbon black oil and sulfur. Prime product sales
include ExxonMobil s share of equity company volumes and finished-product
transfers to the Downstream.    

114       

SIGNATURES    

   Pursuant to the requirements of Section 13 or 15(d) of
the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report
to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned, thereunto duly authorized.    

EXXON MOBIL CORPORATION  

By:  

/s/    REX W.
  TILLERSON          

(Rex W. Tillerson,  
    Chairman of the Board)  

Dated February 24, 2016   

POWER
OF ATTORNEY    

   Each person whose signature appears below constitutes
and appoints Randall M. Ebner, Stephen A. Littleton and Jeffrey S. Lynn
and each of them, his or her true and lawful attorneys-in-fact and agents, with
full power of substitution and resubstitution, for him or her and in his or her
name, place and stead, in any and all capacities, to sign any and all
amendments to this Annual Report on Form 10-K, and to file the same, with all
exhibits thereto, and other documents in connection therewith, with the
Securities and Exchange Commission, granting unto said attorneys-in-fact and
agents, and each of them, full power and authority to do and perform each and
every act and thing requisite and necessary to be done, as fully to all intents
and purposes as he or she might or could do in person, hereby ratifying and
confirming all that said attorneys-in-fact and agents or any of them, or their
or his or her substitute or substitutes, may lawfully do or cause to be done by
virtue hereof.    

Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities
Exchange Act of 1934, this report has been signed below by the following
persons on behalf of the registrant and in the capacities indicated and on
February 24, 2016.    

/s/    REX
  W. TILLERSON  

(Rex W. Tillerson)  

Chairman of the Board  
    (Principal Executive Officer)  

/s/    MICHAEL
  J. BOSKIN  

(Michael J. Boskin)  

Director  

/s/    PETER
  BRABECK-LETMATHE  

(Peter Brabeck-Letmathe)  

Director  

/s/    URSULA
  M. BURNS  

(Ursula M. Burns)  

Director  

/s/    LARRY
  R. FAULKNER  

(Larry R. Faulkner)  

Director  

115       

/s/    JAY
  S. FISHMAN  

(Jay S. Fishman)  

Director  

/s/    HENRIETTA
  H. FORE  

(Henrietta H. Fore)  

Director  

/s/    KENNETH
  C. FRAZIER  

(Kenneth C. Frazier)  

Director  

/s/    DOUGLAS
  R. OBERHELMAN  

(Douglas R. Oberhelman)  

Director  

/s/    SAMUEL
  J. PALMISANO  

(Samuel J. Palmisano)  

Director  

/s/    STEVEN
  S REINEMUND  

(Steven S Reinemund)  

Director  

/s/    WILLIAM
  C. WELDON  

(William C. Weldon)  

Director  

/s/    DARREN
  W. WOODS  

(Darren W. Woods)  

Director  

/s/    ANDREW
  P. SWIGER  

(Andrew P. Swiger)  

Senior Vice President  
    (Principal Financial Officer)  

/s/    DAVID
  S. ROSENTHAL  

(David S. Rosenthal)  

Vice President and Controller  
    (Principal Accounting Officer)  

116       

INDEX TO EXHIBITS       

Exhibit   

Description   

3(i)  

Restated
  Certificate of Incorporation, as restated November 30, 1999, and as
  further amended effective June 20, 2001.  

3(ii)  

By-Laws, as
  revised to April 27, 2011.  

10(iii)(a.1)  

2003 Incentive
  Program, as approved by shareholders May 28, 2003 (incorporated by reference
  to Exhibit 10(iii)(a.1) to the Registrant s Annual Report on Form 10-K for
  2012).*  

10(iii)(a.2)  

Extended
  Provisions for Restricted Stock Agreements (incorporated by reference to
  Exhibit 99.2 to the Registrant s Report on Form 8-K of November 28,
  2012).*  

10(iii)(a.3)  

Extended
  Provisions for Restricted Stock Unit Agreements   Settlement in Shares.*  

10(iii)(a.4)  

Standard
  Provisions for Restricted Stock Unit Agreements   Settlement in Cash
  (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10(iii)(a.4) to the Registrant s Annual
  Report on Form 10-K for 2013).*  

10(iii)(b.1)  

Short Term
  Incentive Program, as amended (incorporated by reference to Exhibit
  10(iii)(b.1) to the Registrant s Annual Report on Form 10-K for 2013).*  

10(iii)(b.2)  

Earnings Bonus
  Unit instrument.*  

10(iii)(c.1)  

ExxonMobil
  Supplemental Savings Plan (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10(iii)(c.1)
  to the Registrant s Annual Report on Form 10-K for 2014).*  

10(iii)(c.2)  

ExxonMobil
  Supplemental Pension Plan (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10(iii)(c.2)
  to the Registrant s Annual Report on Form 10-K for 2014).*  

10(iii)(c.3)  

ExxonMobil
  Additional Payments Plan (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10(iii)(c.3)
  to the Registrant s Annual Report on Form 10-K for 2013).*  

10(iii)(d)  

ExxonMobil
  Executive Life Insurance and Death Benefit Plan (incorporated by reference to
  Exhibit 10(iii)(d) to the Registrant s Annual Report on Form 10-K
  for 2011).*  

10(iii)(f.1)  

2004
  Non-Employee Director Restricted Stock Plan (incorporated by reference to
  Exhibit 10(iii)(f.1) to the Registrant s Annual Report on Form 10-K for
  2013).*  

10(iii)(f.2)  

Standing
  resolution for non-employee director restricted grants dated
  September 26, 2007 (incorporated by reference to
  Exhibit 10(iii)(f.2) to the Registrant s Quarterly Report on
  Form 10-Q for the quarter ended September 30, 2012).*  

10(iii)(f.3)  

Form of
  restricted stock grant letter for non-employee directors (incorporated by
  reference to Exhibit 10(iii)(f.3) to the Registrant s Annual Report on Form
  10-K for 2014).*  

10(iii)(f.4)  

Standing
  resolution for non-employee director cash fees dated October 26, 2011.*  

12  

Computation of
  ratio of earnings to fixed charges.  

14  

Code of Ethics
  and Business Conduct (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 14 to the
  Registrant s Annual Report on Form 10-K for 2013).  

21  

Subsidiaries of
  the registrant.  

23  

Consent of
  PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP, Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm.  

31.1  

Certification
  (pursuant to Securities Exchange Act Rule 13a-14(a)) by Chief
  Executive Officer.  

31.2  

Certification
  (pursuant to Securities Exchange Act Rule 13a-14(a)) by Principal
  Financial Officer.  

31.3  

Certification
  (pursuant to Securities Exchange Act Rule 13a-14(a)) by Principal
  Accounting Officer.  

117       

INDEX TO EXHIBITS   (continued)      

*   Compensatory plan or arrangement required to be
identified pursuant to Item 15(a)(3) of this Annual Report on Form 10-K.   

  The registrant has not filed with this report copies
of the instruments defining the rights of holders of long-term debt of the
registrant and its subsidiaries for which consolidated or unconsolidated
financial statements are required to be filed. The registrant agrees to furnish
a copy of any such instrument to the Securities and Exchange Commission upon request.

118       

<EX-3.(I)>
 2
 xomexhibit3i.htm
 RESTATED CERTIFICATE OF INCORPORATION

EXHIBIT 3(i)    

    RESTATED    

    CERTIFICATE OF INCORPORATION    

    of    

    EXXON MOBIL CORPORATION    

    (As Amended Effective June 20, 2001)    

   Exxon Mobil Corporation, a
corporation organized and existing under the laws of the State of New Jersey,
restates and integrates its Certificate of Incorporation, as heretofore
restated and amended, to read in full as herein set forth:   

   FIRST.  The name of the
corporation is:   

   EXXON MOBIL CORPORATION   

   SECOND.  The address of the
corporation s registered office is 830 Bear Tavern Road, West Trenton, New
Jersey 08628-1020.  The name of the corporation's registered agent at such
address, upon whom process against the corporation may be served, is
Corporation Service Company.   

   THIRD.  The purposes for which the
corporation is organized are to engage in any or all activities within the
purposes for which corporations now or at any time hereafter may be organized
under the New Jersey Business Corporation Act and under all amendments and
supplements thereto, or any revision thereof or any statute enacted to take the
place thereof, including but not limited to the following:   

   (1)        To do all kinds of
mining, manufacturing and trading business; transporting goods and merchandise
by land or water in any manner; to buy, sell, lease and improve lands; to build
houses, structures, vessels, cars, wharves, docks and piers; to lay and operate
pipelines; to erect and operate telegraph and telephone lines and lines for
conducting electricity; to enter into and carry out contracts of every kind
pertaining to its business; to acquire, use, sell and grant licenses under
patent rights; to purchase or otherwise acquire, hold, sell, assign and
transfer shares of capital stock and bonds or other evidences of indebtedness
of corporations, and to exercise all the privileges of ownership including
voting upon the securities so held; to carry on its business and have offices
and agencies therefor in all parts of the world; and to hold, purchase,
mortgage and convey real estate and personal property within or without the
State of New Jersey;   

   (2)        To engage in any activities encompassed within
this Article Third directly or through a subsidiary or subsidiaries and to take
any and all acts deemed appropriate to promote the interests of such subsidiary
or subsidiaries, including, without limiting the foregoing, the following:
making contracts and incurring liabilities for the benefit of such subsidiary
or subsidiaries; transferring or causing to be transferred to any such
subsidiary or    

subsidiaries assets of this corporation;
guaranteeing dividends on any shares of the capital stock of any such
subsidiary; guaranteeing the principal and interest or either of the bonds,
debentures, notes or other evidences of indebtedness issued or obligations
incurred by any such subsidiary or subsidiaries; securing said bonds,
debentures, notes or other evidences of indebtedness so guaranteed by mortgage
of or security interest in the property of this corporation; and contracting
that said bonds, debentures, notes or other evidences of indebtedness so
guaranteed, whether secured or not, may be convertible into shares of this
corporation upon such terms and conditions as may be approved by the board of
directors;  

  (3)        To guarantee the bonds, debentures, notes or other evidences
of indebtedness issued, or obligations incurred, by any corporation,
partnership, limited partnership, joint venture or other association in which
this corporation at the time such guarantee is made has a substantial interest
or where such guarantee is otherwise in furtherance of the interests of this
corporation; and  

  (4)        To exercise as a purpose or purposes each power granted to
corporations by the New Jersey Business Corporation Act or by any amendment or
supplement thereto or by any statute enacted to take the place thereof, insofar
as such powers authorize or may hereafter authorize corporations to engage in
activities.    

  FOURTH.  The aggregate number of shares which the corporation shall have
authority to issue is nine billion two hundred million (9,200,000,000) shares,
divided into two hundred million (200,000,000) shares of preferred stock
without par value and nine billion  (9,000,000,000) shares of common stock
without par value.  

  (1)        The board of directors of the corporation is authorized at
any time or from time to time (i) to divide the shares of preferred stock into
classes and into series within any class or classes of preferred stock; (ii) to
determine for any such class or series its designation, relative rights,
preferences and limitations; (iii) to determine the number of shares in any
such class or series (including a determination that such class or series shall
consist of a single share); (iv) to increase the number of shares of any such
class or series previously determined by it and to decrease such previously
determined number of shares to a number not less than that of the shares of
such class or series then outstanding; (v) to change the designation or number
of shares, or the relative rights, preferences and limitations of the shares,
of any theretofore established class or series no shares of which have been
issued; and (vi) to cause to be executed and filed without further approval of
the shareholders such amendment or amendments to the Restated Certificate of Incorporation
as may be required in order to accomplish any of the foregoing.  In particular,
but without limiting the generality of the foregoing, the board of directors is
authorized to determine with respect to the shares of any class or series of
preferred stock:  

  (a)        whether the holders thereof shall be entitled to cumulative,
non-cumulative or partially cumulative dividends or to no dividends and, with
respect to shares entitled to dividends, the dividend rate or rates (which may
be fixed or variable and may be made dependent upon facts ascertainable outside
of the Restated Certificate of Incorporation) and any other terms and
conditions relating to such dividends;  

  (b)        whether the holders thereof shall be entitled to receive
dividends payable on a parity with or subordinate or in preference to the
dividends payable on any other class or series of shares of the corporation;  

2           

(c)        whether, and if so to what extent and
upon what terms and conditions, the holders thereof shall be entitled to
preferential rights upon the liquidation of, or upon any distribution of the
assets of, the corporation;  

  (d)       whether, and if so upon what terms and conditions, such shares
shall be convertible into other securities;  

  (e)        whether, and if so upon what terms and conditions, such
shares shall be redeemable;  

  (f)        the terms and amount of any sinking fund provided for the
purchase or redemption of such shares; and  

  (g)        the voting rights, if any, to be enjoyed by such shares and
the terms and conditions for the exercise thereof.  

  (2)        Each holder of shares of common stock shall be entitled to
one vote for each share of common stock held of record by such holder on all
matters on which holders of shares of common stock are entitled to vote.  

  (3)        No holder of any shares of common or preferred stock of the
corporation shall have any right as such holder (other than such right, if any,
as the board of directors in its discretion may determine) to purchase,
subscribe for or otherwise acquire any unissued or treasury shares, or any
option rights, or securities having conversion or option rights, of the
corporation now or hereafter authorized.  

  (4)        The relative voting, dividend, liquidation and other rights,
preferences and limitations of the shares of the class of preferred stock
designated  Class A Preferred Stock  and the class of preferred stock
designated  Class B Preferred Stock  are as set forth in this Article
FOURTH and in Exhibit A to this Restated Certificate of Incorporation.  

  FIFTH.  The following is a list of the names and residences of the
original shareholders, and of the number of shares held by each:  

H.M. Flagler  

of New York City,  

One share.  

Paul Babcock, Jr.  

of Jersey City,  

One share.  

James McGee  

of Plainfield, New Jersey,  

One share.  

Thos. C. Bushnell  

of Morristown, New Jersey,  

One share.  

John D. Rockefeller  

of Cleveland, Ohio,  

}  

Wm. Rockefeller  

of New York City,  

}  

J.A. Bostwick  

of New York City,  

}  

John D. Archbold  

of New York City,  

}  

O.H. Payne  

of Cleveland, Ohio,  

}  

Wm. G. Warden  

of Philadelphia, Pa.,  

}  

Benj. Brewster  

of New York City,  

}  

Chas. Pratt  

of Brooklyn, N.Y.,  

}  

and H.M. Flagler  

of New York City.  

}  

3           

Trustees of
Standard Oil Trust, twenty-nine thousand nine hundred and ninety-six shares
(29,996), of which twenty-one thousand seven hundred and twenty-four shares
(21,724) were issued for property purchased and necessary for the business of
this corporation.  

SIXTH.  The number of directors of the corporation as of November 30,
1999 is 19 and their names and business office addresses are:  

4           

5           

SEVENTH.  The number of directors at any time may be increased or
diminished by vote of the board of directors, and in case of any such increase
the board of directors shall have power to elect each such additional director
to hold office until the next succeeding annual meeting of shareholders and
until his successor shall have been elected and qualified.  

  The board of directors, by the affirmative vote of a majority of the
directors in office, may remove a director or directors for cause where, in the
judgment of such majority, the continuation of the director or directors in
office would be harmful to the corporation and may suspend the director or
directors for a reasonable period pending final determination that cause exists
for such removal.  

  The board of directors from time to time shall determine whether and to
what extent, and at what times and places, and under what conditions and
regulations, the accounts and books of the corporation, or any of them, shall
be open to the inspection of the shareholders; and no shareholder shall have
any right of inspecting any account or book or document of the corporation,
except as conferred by statute or authorized by the board of directors, or by a
resolution of the shareholders.  

  EIGHTH.  The following action may be taken by the affirmative vote of a
majority of the votes cast by the holders of shares of the corporation entitled
to vote thereon:  

  (1)        The adoption by the shareholders of a proposed amendment of
the certificate of incorporation of the corporation;  

  (2)        The adoption by the shareholders of a proposed plan of merger
or consolidation involving the corporation;  

  (3)        The approval by the shareholders of a sale, lease, exchange,
or other disposition of all, or substantially all, the assets of the
corporation otherwise than in the usual and regular course of business as
conducted by the corporation; and  

  (4)        Dissolution.  

  NINTH.  Except as otherwise provided by statute or by this certificate
of incorporation or the by-laws of the corporation as in each case the same may
be amended from time to time, all corporate powers may be exercised by the
board of directors.  Without limiting the foregoing, the board of directors
shall have power, without shareholder action:  

  (1)        To authorize the corporation to purchase, acquire, hold,
lease, mortgage, pledge, sell and convey such property, real, personal and
mixed, without as well as within the State of New Jersey, as the board of
directors may from time to time determine, and in payment for any property to
issue, or cause to be issued, shares of the corporation, or bonds, debentures,
notes or other obligations or evidence of indebtedness thereof secured by
pledge, security interest or mortgage, or unsecured; and  

  (2)        To authorize the borrowing of money, the issuance of bonds,
debentures, notes and other obligations or evidences of indebtedness of the
corporation, secured or unsecured, and the inclusion of provisions as to
redeemability and convertibility into shares of

6           

stock of the corporation or otherwise, and, as security
for money borrowed or bonds, debentures, notes and other obligations or
evidences of indebtedness issued by the corporation, the mortgaging or pledging
of any property, real, personal, or mixed, then owned or thereafter acquired by
the corporation.  

  TENTH.  To the full extent from time to time permitted by law, no
director or officer of the corporation shall be personally liable to the
corporation or its shareholders for damages for breach of any duty owed to the
corporation or its shareholders.  Neither the amendment or repeal of this
Article, nor the adoption of any provision of this certificate of incorporation
inconsistent with this Article, shall eliminate or reduce the protection
afforded by this Article to a director or officer of the corporation with
respect to any matter which occurred, or any cause of action, suit or claim
which but for this Article would have accrued or arisen, prior to such
amendment, repeal or adoption.  

7           

EXHIBIT A  

  PART
I  

  Class
A Preferred Stock  

   Section 1   .     Designation and Amount; Special Purpose Restricted
Transfer Issue   .   

  (A)       The shares of this class of preferred stock shall be
designated as  Class A Preferred Stock  (referred to herein as the
 Class A Preferred Stock ) and the aggregate number of shares
constituting such class which the Corporation shall have the authority to issue
is 16,500,000.  The shares of this class shall have a stated value of $61.50
per share (the  Stated Value ).  

  (B)       Shares of Class A Preferred Stock shall be issued only to a
trustee acting on behalf of the Plan (as defined in Section 9(F)(vii)).  In the
event of any transfer of shares of Class A Preferred Stock to any person other
than the Corporation or the trustee of the Plan, the shares of Class A
Preferred Stock so transferred, upon such transfer and without any further
action by the Corporation or the holder, shall be automatically converted into
shares of the Corporation s Common Stock without par value (the  Common
Stock ) pursuant to Section 5 hereof and no such transferee shall have any
of the voting powers, preferences and relative, participating, optional or
special rights ascribed to shares of Class A Preferred Stock hereunder but,
rather, only the powers and rights pertaining to the Common Stock into which
such shares of Class A Preferred Stock shall be so converted.  In the event of
such a conversion, the transferee of the shares of Class A Preferred Stock
shall be treated for all purposes as the record holder of the shares of Common
Stock into which such shares of Class A Preferred Stock have been automatically
converted as of the date of such transfer;    provided   ,    however   ,
that the pledge of Class A Preferred Stock as collateral under any credit
agreement for the financing or refinancing of the initial purchase of the Class
A Preferred Stock by the Plan shall not constitute a transfer for purposes of
this Section 1.  Certificates representing shares of Class A Preferred Stock
shall be legended to reflect such restrictions on transfer.  Notwithstanding
the foregoing provisions of this Section 1 (B), shares of Class A Preferred
Stock (i) upon allocation to the account of a participant in the Plan, shall be
converted into shares of Common Stock pursuant to Section 5 hereof and the
shares of Common Stock issued upon such conversion may be transferred by the holder
thereof as permitted by law and (ii) shall be redeemable by the Corporation
upon the terms and conditions provided by Sections 6, 7 and 8 hereof.  

   Section 2   .     Dividends and Distributions   .   

  (A)       Subject to the provisions for adjustment hereinafter set forth,
the holders of shares of Class A Preferred Stock shall be entitled to receive,
when, as and if declared by the Board of Directors out of funds available under
applicable law and the Certificate of Incorporation, cumulative cash dividends
( Preferred Dividends ) in an amount per share equal to $4.68 per
annum and no more, payable (x) monthly in arrears, one-twelfth on the 20th day
of each month, commencing on July 20, 1989 and ending on June 20, 1990, and
thereafter (y) quarterly in arrears, one-quarter on the 20th day of each March,
June, September and December in each year (each such monthly and quarterly date
a  Dividend Payment Date ), to holders of record at the start of
business on such Dividend Payment Date.  In the event that any Dividend Payment
Date shall occur on any day other than a  Business Day  (as defined
in Section 9(F)(i)),

8           

the dividend payment due on such Dividend Payment Date
shall be paid on the Business Day immediately succeeding such Dividend Payment
Date.  Preferred Dividends shall begin to accrue on outstanding shares of Class
A Preferred Stock from the date of issuance of such shares of Class A Preferred
Stock.  Preferred Dividends shall accrue on a daily basis whether or not the
Corporation shall have earnings or surplus at the time.  Preferred Dividends
accrued after the date of issuance for any period less than a full monthly or
quarterly period, as the case may be, between Dividend Payment Dates shall be
computed on the basis of a 360-day year consisting of twelve 30-day months and
such a proportional dividend shall accrue for the period from the date of
issuance until the end of the dividend payment period in which such issuance
occurs.  Accumulated but unpaid Preferred Dividends shall accumulate as of the
Dividend Payment Date on which they first become payable, but no interest shall
accrue on accumulated but unpaid Preferred Dividends.  

  (B)       So long as any Class A Preferred Stock shall be outstanding,
no dividend shall be declared or paid or set apart for payment on any other class
of stock ranking on a parity with the Class A Preferred Stock as to dividends
( Parity Stock ), unless there shall also be or have been declared
and paid or set apart for payment on the Class A Preferred Stock dividends
ratably in proportion to the respective amounts of dividends (a) accumulated
and unpaid through all dividend payment periods for the Class A Preferred Stock
ending on or before the dividend payment date of such Parity Stock and (b)
accumulated and unpaid on such Parity Stock through the dividend payment period
on such Parity Stock next preceding such dividend payment date.  So long as any
Class A Preferred Stock shall be outstanding, in the event that full cumulative
dividends on the Class A Preferred Stock have not been declared and paid or set
apart for payment for all prior dividend payment periods, the Corporation shall
not declare or pay or set apart for payment any dividends or make any other
distributions on, or make any payment on account of the purchase, redemption or
other retirement of, any other class of stock or series thereof of the
Corporation ranking as to dividends junior to the Class A Preferred Stock
( Junior Stock ) until full cumulative and unpaid dividends on the
Class A Preferred Stock shall have been paid or declared and set apart for
payment;    provided   ,    however   , that the foregoing shall not apply to
(i) any dividend payable solely in any shares of any Junior Stock, or (ii) the
acquisition of shares of any Junior Stock either (x) pursuant to any employee
or director incentive or benefit plan or arrangement (including any employment,
severance or consulting agreement) of the Corporation or any subsidiary of the
Corporation heretofore or hereafter adopted or (y) in exchange solely for
shares of any other Junior Stock.    

   Section 3   .     Voting Rights   .  The holders of shares of Class
A Preferred Stock shall have the following voting rights:  

  (A)       The holders of Class A Preferred Stock shall be entitled to
vote on all matters submitted to a vote of the holders of Common Stock of the
Corporation, voting together as one class with the holders of Common Stock and
any other class or series of preferred stock so voting as one class.  Each
share of the Class A Preferred Stock shall entitle the holder thereof to a
number of votes equal to the number of shares of Common Stock into which such
share of Class A Preferred Stock could be converted pursuant to the first
sentence of Section 5(A) hereof on the record date for determining the
shareholders entitled to vote, rounded to the nearest one-tenth of a vote; it
being understood that whenever the  Conversion Ratio  (as defined in
Section 5 hereof) is adjusted pursuant to Section 9 hereof, the voting rights
of the Class A Preferred Stock shall also be similarly adjusted.  

9           

(B)       Except as otherwise required by law,
holders of Class A Preferred Stock shall have no special voting rights and
their consent shall not be required (except to the extent they are entitled to
vote with holders of Common Stock or any other class or series of preferred
stock) for the taking of any corporate action.  

   Section 4   .     Liquidation, Dissolution or Winding-Up   .   

  (A)       Upon any voluntary or involuntary liquidation, dissolution or
winding-up of the Corporation, the holders of Class A Preferred Stock shall be
entitled to receive out of assets of the Corporation which remain after
satisfaction in full of all valid claims of creditors of the Corporation and
which are available for payment to shareholders, and subject to the rights of
the holders of any class of stock of the Corporation ranking senior to or on a
parity with the Class A Preferred Stock in respect of distributions upon
liquidation, dissolution or winding-up of the Corporation, before any amount
shall be paid or distributed among the holders of Common Stock or any other
class of stock ranking junior to the Class A Preferred Stock in respect of
distributions upon liquidation, dissolution or winding-up of the Corporation,
liquidating distributions in an aggregate amount of $61.50 per share of Class A
Preferred Stock plus an amount equal to all accrued and unpaid dividends
thereon to the date fixed for distribution, and no more.  If upon any
liquidation, dissolution or winding-up of the Corporation, the amounts payable
with respect to the Class A Preferred Stock and any other class of stock
ranking as to any such distribution on a parity with the Class A Preferred
Stock are not paid in full, the holders of the Class A Preferred Stock and such
other class of stock shall share ratably in any distribution of assets in
proportion to the full respective preferential amounts to which they are
entitled.  After payment of the full amount to which they are entitled as
provided by the foregoing provisions of this Section 4(A), the holders of
shares of Class A Preferred Stock shall not be entitled to any further right or
claim to any of the remaining assets of the Corporation.  

  (B)       Neither the merger, consolidation or combination of the
Corporation with or into any other corporation, nor the sale, lease, transfer
or other exchange of all or any portion of the assets of the Corporation (or
any purchase or redemption of some or all of the shares of any class or series
of stock of the Corporation), shall be deemed to be a dissolution, liquidation
or winding-up of the affairs of the Corporation for purposes of this Section 4,
but the holders of Class A Preferred Stock shall nevertheless be entitled in
the event of any such transaction to the rights provided by Section 8 hereof.  

  (C)       Written notice of any voluntary or involuntary liquidation,
dissolution or winding-up of the Corporation, stating the payment date or dates
when, and the place or places where, the amounts distributable to holders of
Class A Preferred Stock and any other class or series of preferred stock in
such circumstances shall be payable, and stating that, except in the case of
Class A Preferred Stock represented by uncertificated shares, such payment will
be made only after the surrender (or submission for notation of any partial
payment) of such holder's certificates representing shares of Class A Preferred
Stock, shall be given by first class mail, postage prepaid, mailed not less
than twenty (20) days prior to any payment date stated therein, to the holders
of Class A Preferred Stock, at the address shown on the books of the Corporation
or any transfer agent for the Class A Preferred Stock.  

10           

Section 5   .     Conversion into Common
Stock   .   

  (A)       A holder of shares of Class A Preferred
Stock shall be entitled at any time, but not later than the close of business
on the Redemption Date (as hereinafter defined) of such shares pursuant to
Section 6, 7 or 8 hereof, to cause any or all of such shares to be converted
into a number of shares of Common Stock for each share of Class A Preferred
Stock which initially shall be one and which shall be adjusted as hereinafter
provided (and, as so adjusted, is hereinafter sometimes referred to as the
 Conversion Ratio ).  In addition to the foregoing and subject to
Section 5(B) hereof, a holder of shares of Class A Preferred Stock upon allocation
of such shares to the account of a participant in the Plan shall be required to
convert each such share of Class A Preferred Stock into the greater of (i) that
number of shares of Common Stock which shall be the quotient obtained by
dividing the Stated Value of each share of Class A Preferred Stock by the
greater of (x) $15 divided by the Conversion Ratio or (y) the average of the
high and low sales prices for a share of Common Stock on the trading day next
preceding the Conversion Date (as hereinafter defined) on which one or more
sales of shares of Common Stock occur, all as reported on the Composite Tape
(as hereinafter defined), or (ii) that number of shares of Common Stock equal
to the Conversion Ratio.  The Corporation s determination in good faith in
respect of the number of shares to be issued upon any and all conversions
pursuant to the preceding sentence shall be conclusive.  

  (B)       Any holder of shares of Class A Preferred Stock desiring or
required to convert such shares into shares of Common Stock shall surrender the
certificate or certificates representing the shares of Class A Preferred Stock
being converted, duly assigned or endorsed for transfer to the Corporation (or
accompanied by duly executed stock powers relating thereto) in case of a
request for registration in a name other than that of such holder, at the
offices of the Corporation or the transfer agent for the Common Stock
accompanied by written notice of conversion.  Such notice of conversion shall
specify (i) the number of shares of Class A Preferred Stock to be converted,
and the name or names in which such holder wishes the certificate or
certificates for Common Stock and for any shares of Class A Preferred Stock not
to be so converted to be issued (or the name or names in which ownership of such
shares is to be registered in the event that they are to be uncertificated),
(ii) the address or addresses to which such holder wishes delivery to be made
of such new certificates to be issued upon such conversion, and (iii) whether
the conversion is being effected pursuant to the second sentence of Section
5(A) hereof.  

  (C)       A conversion of shares of Class A Preferred Stock into shares
of Common Stock pursuant to Section 5(A) shall be effective immediately before
the close of business on the day of the later of (i) the surrender to the
Corporation of the certificate or certificates for the shares of Class A
Preferred Stock to be converted, duly assigned or endorsed for transfer to the
Corporation (or accompanied by duly executed stock powers relating thereto) in
case of a request for registration in a name other than that of such holder and
(ii) the giving of the notice of conversion as provided herein (the
 Conversion Date ).  On and after such Conversion Date, the person or
persons entitled to receive the Common Stock issuable upon such conversion
shall be treated for all purposes as the record holder or holders of such
shares of Common Stock.  

  (D)       Promptly after the Conversion Date for shares of Class A
Preferred Stock to be converted, the Corporation or the transfer agent for the
Common Stock shall issue and send by hand delivery (with receipt to be
acknowledged) or by first class mail, postage prepaid, to the holder of such
shares or to such holder's designee, at the address designated by such holder,
a

11           

certificate or certificates for the number of shares
of Common Stock to which such holder shall be entitled upon conversion.  In the
event that there shall have been surrendered a certificate or certificates
representing shares of Class A Preferred Stock only part of which are to be
converted, the Corporation or the transfer agent for the Common Stock shall
issue and deliver to such holder or such holder's designee a new certificate or
certificates representing the number of shares of Class A Preferred Stock which
shall not have been converted.  

  (E)       The Corporation shall not be obligated to deliver to holders
of Class A Preferred Stock any fractional share or shares of Common Stock
issuable upon any conversion of such shares of Class A Preferred Stock, but in
lieu thereof may make a cash payment in respect thereof in any manner permitted
by law.  The determination in good faith by the Corporation of the amount of
any such cash payments shall be conclusive.  

  (F)       The Corporation shall at all times reserve and keep available
out of its authorized and unissued and/or treasury Common Stock solely for
issuance upon the conversion of shares of Class A Preferred Stock as herein
provided, free from any preemptive rights, the maximum number of shares of
Common Stock as shall from time to time be issuable upon the conversion of all
shares of Class A Preferred Stock then outstanding.  

   Section 6   .     Redemption at the Option of the Corporation   .   

  (A)       The Class A Preferred Stock shall be redeemable, in whole or
in part, at the option of the Corporation at any time at the Stated Value, plus
an amount equal to all accrued and unpaid dividends thereon to the date fixed
for redemption (the close of business on such date being referred to as the
 Redemption Date     provided     that such redemption may be made
on or after December 20, 1990 and prior to July 20, 1995 only if (i) the
Corporation shall have requested that the trustee of the Plan repay the
indebtedness incurred by such trustee to purchase the shares of Class A
Preferred Stock and (ii) either (x) Section 404(k) of the Code (as hereinafter
defined) is repealed or amended or the Internal Revenue Service or the Treasury
Department promulgates a Revenue Ruling or Regulation or a federal Court of
Appeals issues a decision involving the Corporation, at any time on or after
December 20, 1990 and prior to July 20, 1995 with the effect that less
than 100% of the dividends payable on the shares of any capital stock of the
Corporation including, without limitation, Class A Preferred Stock or Common
Stock held in the Plan is deductible by the Corporation, when paid to
participants in the Plan or their beneficiaries or used to repay indebtedness
as described in Section 404(k) of the Code, from its gross income for purposes
of determining its liability for the federal income tax imposed by Section 11
of the Code or (y) the Code is amended at any time on or after December 20,
1990 and prior to July 20, 1995 (other than to change the rate of any existing
tax imposed by the Code) or the Internal Revenue Service or the Treasury
Department promulgates a Revenue Ruling or Regulation or a federal Court of
Appeals issues a decision involving the Corporation, with the effect that the
Corporation's liability for the alternative minimum tax imposed by Section 55
of the Code, the general federal income tax imposed by Section 11 of the Code
or any other tax hereafter imposed by the Code is increased solely by reason of
its claiming a deduction in respect of dividends paid on the shares of any
capital stock of the Corporation including, without limitation, Class A
Preferred Stock or Common Stock held in the Plan in a manner consistent with
Section 404(k) of the Code.  Payment of the redemption price shall be made by
the Corporation in cash or shares of Common Stock or a combination thereof, as
permitted by paragraph (C) of this Section 6.  From and after the Redemption
Date, dividends on shares of Class A Preferred Stock called for redemption will
cease to accrue, such shares will no longer be

12           

deemed to be outstanding and all rights in respect of
such shares of the Corporation shall cease, except the right to receive the
redemption price.  No interest shall accrue at the redemption price after the
Redemption Date.  If less than all of the outstanding shares of Class A
Preferred Stock are to be redeemed, the Corporation shall either redeem a
portion of the shares of each holder determined pro rata based on the number of
shares held by each holder or shall select the shares to be redeemed by lot or
as may be otherwise determined by the Board of Directors of the Corporation.  

  (B)       Unless otherwise required by law, notice of redemption
pursuant to paragraph (A) of this Section 6 will be sent to the holders of
Class A Preferred Stock at the address shown on the books of the Corporation or
any transfer agent for the Class A Preferred Stock by first class mail, postage
prepaid, mailed not less than thirty (30) days nor more than sixty (60) days
prior to the Redemption Date.  Such Class A Preferred Stock shall continue to
be entitled to the conversion rights provided in Section 5 hereof through such
Redemption Date.  Each such notice shall state: (i) the Redemption Date; (ii)
the total number of shares of the Class A Preferred Stock to be redeemed and,
if fewer than all the shares held by such holder are to be redeemed, the number
of such shares to be redeemed from such holder; (iii) the redemption price and
the intended form of payment; (iv) the place or places where certificates for
such shares are to be surrendered for payment of the redemption price; (v) that
dividends on the shares to be redeemed will cease to accrue on such Redemption
Date; and (vi) a summary of the conversion rights of the shares to be redeemed,
the period within which conversion rights may be exercised, and the Conversion
Ratio in effect at the time.  Upon surrender of the certificate for any shares
so called for redemption and not previously converted (or upon giving the
notice of redemption in the case of uncertificated shares), but not earlier
than the Redemption Date, the Corporation shall pay to the holder of such
shares or its designee the redemption price set forth pursuant to this Section
6.  

  (C)       The Corporation, at its option, may make payment of the
redemption price required upon redemption of shares of Class A Preferred Stock
pursuant to Section 6 or 7 hereof in cash or in shares of Common Stock or in a
combination of such shares and cash, any such shares of Common Stock to be
valued for such purpose at their Fair Market Value (as defined in Section 9(F)(iii))
on the Redemption Date.  Any shares of Common Stock so issued or delivered (or
issued or delivered pursuant to Section 7) shall be deemed to have been issued
or delivered to the holder of the Class A Preferred Stock as of the Redemption
Date and such holder shall be deemed to have become the record holder thereof
as of the Redemption Date.  

   Section 7   .     Other Redemption Rights   .   

  Shares of Class A Preferred Stock shall be redeemed by the Corporation
for cash or, if the Corporation so elects, in shares of Common Stock, or a
combination of such shares and cash (any such shares of Common Stock to be
valued for such purpose in accordance with Section 6(C)), at a redemption price
equal to the Stated Value plus accrued and unpaid dividends thereon to the date
fixed for redemption, at the option of the holder, at any time and from time to
time upon notice to the Corporation given not less than five (5) Business Days
prior to the Redemption Date fixed by the holder in such notice (i) in the
event that the Plan is determined by the Internal Revenue Service not to be
qualified within the meaning of Sections 401(a) and 4975(e)(7) of the Internal
Revenue Code of 1986, as amended from time to time (the  Code ) or
(ii) in the event that the Plan is terminated in accordance with its terms.  

13           

Section 8   .     Consolidation,
Combination, Merger, Etc   .   

  (A)       In the event that the Corporation shall consummate any
consolidation, combination, merger or substantially similar transaction,
pursuant to which the outstanding shares of Common Stock are by operation of
law exchanged solely for or changed, reclassified or converted solely into
stock of any successor or resulting corporation (including the Corporation)
that constitutes  qualifying employer securities  with respect to a
holder of Class A Preferred Stock within the meaning of Section 409(1) of the
Code and Section 407(d)(5) of the Employee Retirement Income Security Act of
1974, as amended, or any successor provisions of law, and, if applicable, for a
cash payment in lieu of fractional shares, if any, the shares of Class A
Preferred Stock of such holder shall in connection therewith be exchanged for
or converted into preferred stock of such successor or resulting corporation,
having in respect of such corporation insofar as possible the same powers,
preferences and relative, participating, optional or other special rights
(including the redemption rights provided by Sections 6, 7 and 8 hereof), and
the qualifications, limitations or restrictions thereon, that the Class A
Preferred Stock had immediately prior to such transaction, except that after
such transaction each share of the Class A Preferred Stock shall be
convertible, otherwise on the terms and conditions provided by Section 5
hereof, into the number and kind of qualifying employer securities so
receivable by a holder of the number of shares of Common Stock into which such
shares of Class A Preferred Stock could have been converted pursuant to the
first sentence of Section 5(A) hereof immediately prior to such transaction;    provided   ,
   however   , that if by virtue of the structure of such transaction, a
holder of Common Stock is required to make an election with respect to the
nature and kind of consideration to be received in such transaction, such
holder of shares of Class A Preferred Stock shall be entitled to make an
equivalent election as to the nature and kind of consideration it shall
receive, and if such election cannot practicably be made by the holders of the
Class A Preferred Stock, then the shares of Class A Preferred Stock shall, by
virtue of such transaction and on the same terms as apply to the holders of
Common Stock, be convertible into or exchangeable for the aggregate amount of
qualifying employer securities (payable in like kind and proportion) receivable
by a holder of the number of shares of Common Stock into which such shares of
Class A Preferred Stock could have been converted immediately prior to such
transaction if such holder of Common Stock failed to exercise any rights of
election to receive any kind or amount of qualifying employer securities
receivable upon such transaction (   provided     that, if the kind or amount
of qualifying employer securities receivable upon such transaction is not the
same for each non-electing share, then the kind and amount of qualifying
employer securities receivable upon such transaction for each such non-electing
share shall be the kind and amount so receivable per share by a plurality of
the non-electing shares).  The conversion rights of the class of preferred
stock of such successor or resulting corporation for which the Class A
Preferred Stock is exchanged or into which it is converted, shall successively
be subject to adjustments pursuant to Section 9 hereof after any such
transactions as nearly equivalent as practicable to the adjustments provided
for by such Section prior to such transaction.  The Corporation shall not
consummate any such merger, consolidation or similar transaction unless the
successor or resulting corporation shall have agreed to recognize and honor the
rights of the holders of Class A Preferred Stock set forth in this Section
8(A).  

  (B)       In the event that the Corporation shall consummate any
consolidation, combination, merger or substantially similar transaction,
pursuant to which the outstanding shares of Common Stock are by operation of
law exchanged for or changed, reclassified or converted into other stock or
securities or cash or any other property, or any combination thereof,

14           

other than solely qualifying employer securities (as
referred to in Section 8(A)) and cash payments, if applicable, in lieu of
fractional shares, outstanding shares of Class A Preferred Stock shall, without
any action on the part of the Corporation or any holder thereof (but subject to
Section 8(C)), be deemed to have been converted pursuant to the first sentence
of Section 5(A) hereof immediately prior to the consummation of such merger,
consolidation, combination or similar business combination transaction into the
number of shares of Common Stock into which such shares of Class A Preferred
Stock could have been converted pursuant to the first sentence of Section 5(A)
hereof at such time so that each share of Class A Preferred Stock shall, by
virtue of such transaction and on the same terms as apply to the holders of
Common Stock, be converted into or exchanged for the aggregate amount of stock,
securities, cash or other property (payable in like kind and proportion)
receivable by a holder of the number of shares of Common Stock into which such
share of Class A Preferred Stock could have been converted pursuant to the
first sentence of Section 5(A) hereof immediately prior to such transaction;    provided   ,
   however   , that if by virtue of the structure of such transaction, a
holder of Common Stock is required to make an election with respect to the
nature and kind of consideration to be received in such transaction, the holder
of Class A Preferred Stock shall be entitled to make an equivalent election as
to the kind of consideration it shall receive, and if such election cannot
practicably be made by the holders of the Class A Preferred Stock, then the
shares of Class A Preferred Stock shall, by virtue of such transaction and on
the same terms as apply to the holders of Common Stock, be converted into or
exchanged for the aggregate amount of stock, securities, cash or other property
(payable in like kind and proportion) receivable by a holder of the number of
shares of Common Stock into which such shares of Class A Preferred Stock could
have been converted immediately prior to such transaction if such holder of
Common Stock failed to exercise any rights of election as to the kind or amount
of stock, securities, cash or other property receivable upon such transaction (   provided    
   that   , if the kind or amount of stock, securities, cash or other property
receivable upon such transaction is not the same for each non-electing share,
then the kind and amount of stock, securities, cash or other property
receivable upon such transaction for each such non-electing share shall be the
kind and amount so receivable per share by a plurality of the non- electing
shares).  

  (C)       In the event the Corporation shall enter into any agreement
providing for any consolidation, combination, merger or substantially similar
transaction described in Section 8(B), then the Corporation shall as soon as
practicable thereafter (and in any event at least twenty (20) Business Days
before consummation of such transaction) give notice of such agreement and the
material terms thereof to each holder of Class A Preferred Stock and each holder
shall have the right to elect, by written notice to the Corporation, to
receive, upon consummation of such transaction (if and when such transaction is
consummated), from the Corporation or the successor of the Corporation, in
redemption and retirement of such Class A Preferred Stock, a cash payment equal
to the amount payable in respect of shares of Class A Preferred Stock upon
redemption pursuant to Section 6(A) hereof as if the date of the consummation
of such transaction was the Redemption Date.  No such notice of redemption
shall be effective unless given to the Corporation prior to the close of
business on the second Business Day prior to consummation of such transaction,
unless the Corporation or the successor of the Corporation shall waive such prior
notice, but any notice of redemption so given prior to such time may be
withdrawn by notice of withdrawal given to the Corporation prior to the close
of business on the second Business Day prior to consummation of such
transaction.  

15           

Section 9   .     Anti-dilution Adjustments   .   

  (A)       In the event the Corporation shall, at
any time or from time to time while any of the shares of the Class A Preferred
Stock are outstanding, (i) pay a dividend or make a distribution in respect of
the Common Stock in shares of Common Stock, (ii) subdivide the outstanding
shares of Common Stock or (iii) combine the outstanding shares of Common Stock
into a smaller number of shares, in each case whether by reclassification of
shares, recapitalization of the Corporation (including a recapitalization
effected by a merger or consolidation to which Section 8 hereof does not apply)
or otherwise, the Conversion Ratio in effect immediately prior to such action
shall be adjusted by multiplying such Conversion Ratio by a fraction, the
numerator of which is the number of shares of Common Stock outstanding
immediately after such event, and the denominator of which is the number of
shares of Common Stock outstanding immediately before such event.  An
adjustment made pursuant to this Section 9(A) shall be given effect, upon
payment of such a dividend or distribution, as of the record date for the
determination of shareholders entitled to receive such dividend or distribution
(on a retroactive basis) and in the case of a subdivision or combination shall become
effective immediately as of the effective date thereof.  

  (B)       In the event the Corporation shall, at any time or from time
to time while any shares of Class A Preferred Stock are outstanding, issue
rights, options or warrants to all holders of its outstanding Common Stock,
without any charge to such holders, entitling them (for a period expiring
within forty-five (45) days after the record date mentioned below) to subscribe
for or purchase shares of Common Stock at a price per share which is more than 2%
lower at the record date mentioned below than the then Current Market Price per
share of Common Stock, the Conversion Ratio in effect immediately prior to such
action shall, subject to paragraphs (D) and (E) of this Section 9, be adjusted
by multiplying such Conversion Ratio by a fraction (i) the numerator of which
shall be the number of shares of Common Stock outstanding on the date of
issuance of such rights, options or warrants plus the number of additional
shares of Common Stock issued upon exercise thereof, and (ii) the denominator
of which shall be the number of shares of Common Stock outstanding on the date
of issuance of such rights, options or warrants plus the number of shares which
the aggregate offering price of the total number of shares of Common Stock so
issued would purchase at the then Current Market Price per share of Common
Stock.  Such adjustment shall be made whenever such rights, options or warrants
have expired, and shall become effective retroactively immediately after the
record date for the determination of shareholders entitled to receive such
rights, options or warrants on the basis of the number of rights, options or
warrants actually exercised.  

  (C)       In the event the Corporation shall, at any time or from time
to time while any of the shares of Class A Preferred Stock are outstanding,
make an Extraordinary Distribution (as defined in Section 9(F)(ii)) in respect
of the Common Stock, whether by dividend, distribution, reclassification of
shares or recapitalization of the Corporation (other than a recapitalization or
reclassification effected by a merger, combination or consolidation to which
Section 8 hereof applies), the Conversion Ratio in effect immediately prior to
such Extraordinary Distribution shall, subject to paragraphs (D) and (E) of
this Section 9, be adjusted by multiplying such Conversion Ratio by a fraction,
the numerator of which shall be the product of (i) the number of shares of
Common Stock outstanding immediately before such Extraordinary Distribution and
(ii) the Fair Market Value of a share of Common Stock on the Valuation Date (as
defined in Section 9(F)(vi)) with respect to an Extraordinary Distribution, and
the

16           

denominator of which shall be (i) the product of (x)
the number of shares of Common Stock outstanding immediately before such
Extraordinary Distribution and (y) the Fair Market Value of a share of Common
Stock on the Valuation Date with respect to an Extraordinary Distribution,    minus    
(ii) the Fair Market Value of the Extraordinary Distribution on the Valuation
Date.  The Corporation shall send each holder of Class A Preferred Stock notice
of its intent to make any Extraordinary Distribution at the same time as, or as
soon as practicable after, such intent is first communicated (including by
announcement of a record date in accordance with the rules of the principal
stock exchange on which the Common Stock is listed or admitted to trading) to
holders of Common Stock.  Such notice shall indicate the intended record date
and the amount and nature of such dividend or distribution, and the Conversion
Ratio in effect at such time.  

  (D)       Notwithstanding any other provisions of this Section 9, the
Corporation shall not be required to make any adjustment of the Conversion
Ratio unless such adjustment would require an increase or decrease of at least
one percent (1%) in the Conversion Ratio.  Any lesser adjustment shall be
carried forward and shall be made no later than the time of, and together with,
the next subsequent adjustment which, together with any adjustment or adjustments
so carried forward, shall amount to an increase or decrease of at least one
percent (1%) in the Conversion Ratio.  

  (E)       The Corporation shall be entitled to make such additional
adjustments in the Conversion Ratio, in addition to those required by the
foregoing provisions of this Section 9, as shall be necessary in order that any
dividend or distribution in shares of capital stock of the Corporation,
subdivision, reclassification or combination of shares of stock of the
Corporation or any recapitalization of the Corporation shall not be taxable to
holders of the Common Stock.  

  (F)       For purposes of this Exhibit A, the following definitions
shall apply:  

  (i)          Business
Day  shall mean each day that is not a Saturday, Sunday or a day which
state or federally chartered banking institutions in New York are required or
authorized to be closed.  

  (ii)         Extraordinary
Distribution  shall mean any dividend or other distribution (effected
while any of the shares of Class A Preferred Stock are outstanding) of (x) cash
to the extent that such dividend or distribution when added to the amount of
all cash dividends and distributions paid during the preceding period of twelve
(12) calendar months exceeds fifteen percent (15%) of the aggregate Fair Market
Value of all shares of Common Stock outstanding on the declaration date for
such Extraordinary Distribution and/or (y) any shares of capital stock of the
Corporation (other than shares of Common Stock), other securities of the
Corporation, evidences of indebtedness of the Corporation or any other person
or any other property (including shares of any subsidiary of the Corporation),
or any combination thereof, but excluding rights, options or warrants to which
Section 9(B) refers (without regard to the subscription or purchase price
provided for therein).  

  (iii)        Fair
Market Value  shall mean, as to shares of Common Stock or any other class
of publicly traded capital stock or securities of the Corporation or any other
issuer which are publicly traded, the average of the Current Market Prices of
such shares or securities for each day of the Adjustment Period.  The
 Fair Market Value  of any security which is not publicly traded or
of any other property shall mean the fair

17           

value thereof as determined by an independent investment
banking or appraisal firm experienced in the valuation of such securities or
property, which firm shall be selected in good faith by the Board of Directors
of the Corporation or a committee thereof, or, if no such investment banking or
appraisal firm is in the good faith judgment of the Board of Directors or such
committee available to make such determination, as determined in good faith by
the Board of Directors of the Corporation or such committee.  

  (iv)        Current
Market Price  of publicly traded shares of Common Stock or any other class
of capital stock or other security of the Corporation or any other issuer shall
mean (I) the last reported sales price, regular way, or, if no sale takes place
on such day, the average of the reported closing bid and asked prices, regular
way, in either case as reported on the Composite Tape for New York Stock
Exchange transactions (the  Composite Tape ) or, (II) if such
security is not listed or admitted to trading on the New York Stock Exchange
(the  NYSE ), on the principal national securities exchange on which
such security is listed or admitted to trading or, (III) if not listed or
admitted to trading on any national securities exchange, on the National Market
System of the National Association of Securities Dealers, Inc. Automated
Quotation System ( NASDAQ National Market System ) or, (IV) if such
security is not quoted on the NASDAQ National Market System, the average of the
closing bid and asked prices on each such day in the over-the-counter market as
reported by NASDAQ or, (V) if bid and asked prices for such security on each
such day shall not have been reported through NASDAQ, the average of the bid
and asked prices for such day as furnished by any NYSE member firm regularly
making a market in such security selected for such purposes by the Board of
Directors of the Corporation or a committee thereof, in each case, on each
trading day during the Adjustment Period;    provided   ,    however   , in
determining the Current Market Price, the value (as reasonably determined by the
Board of Directors of the Corporation or a committee thereof) of any
 due-bill  or similar instrument which is then associated with a
share of Common Stock or any other class of capital stock or other security,
shall be deducted.  

  (v)         Adjustment
Period  shall mean the period of five (5) consecutive trading days
preceding, and including, the date as of which the Fair Market Value of a
security is to be determined.  

  (vi)        Valuation
Date  with respect to an Extraordinary Distribution shall mean the date
that is five (5) Business Days prior to the record date for such Extraordinary
Distribution.  

  (vii)       Plan 
shall mean collectively the Corporation's Thrift and ESOP plans and its Thrift
and ESOP Trust.  

  (G)       Whenever an adjustment to the Conversion Ratio and the related
voting rights of the Class A Preferred Stock is required pursuant hereto, the
Corporation shall forthwith deliver to the transfer agent(s) for the Common
Stock and the Class A Preferred Stock and file with the Secretary of the
Corporation, a statement signed by an officer of the Corporation stating the
adjusted Conversion Ratio determined as provided herein, and the voting rights
(as appropriately adjusted), of the Class A Preferred Stock.  Such statement
shall set forth in reasonable detail such facts as shall be necessary to show
the reason and the manner of computing such adjustment including any
determination of Fair Market Value involved in such

18           

computation.  Promptly after each adjustment to the
Conversion Ratio and the related voting rights of the Class A Preferred Stock,
the Corporation shall mail a notice thereof and of the then prevailing
Conversion Ratio to each holder of Class A Preferred Stock.  

   Section 10   .     Ranking; Cancellation of Shares   .   

  (A)       The Class A Preferred Stock shall rank senior to the Common
Stock as to the payment of dividends and senior to the Common Stock as to the
distribution of assets on liquidation, dissolution and winding-up of the
Corporation, and, unless otherwise provided in the Certificate of
Incorporation, as the same may be amended, the Class A Preferred Stock shall
rank on a parity with all other classes or series of the Corporation's
preferred stock, as to payment of dividends and the distribution of assets on
liquidation, dissolution or winding-up.  

  (B)       Any shares of Class A Preferred Stock acquired by the
Corporation by reason of the conversion or redemption of such shares as
provided hereby, or otherwise so acquired, shall be cancelled as shares of
Class A Preferred Stock and restored to the status of authorized but unissued
shares of preferred stock of the Corporation, undesignated as to classes or
series, and may thereafter be reissued as part of a new class or series of such
preferred stock as permitted by law.  

   Section 11   .     Miscellaneous   .   

  (A)       All notices referred to herein shall be in writing, and all
notices hereunder shall be deemed to have been given upon the earlier of
receipt thereof or three (3) Business Days after the mailing thereof if sent by
registered mail (unless first class mail shall be specifically permitted for
such notice under the terms of this Exhibit A) with postage prepaid, addressed:
(i) if to the Corporation, to its office at 5959 Las Colinas Boulevard, Irving,
TX 75039 (Attention: Treasurer) or to the transfer agent (if any) for the Class
A Preferred Stock or (ii) if to any holder of the Class A Preferred Stock or
the Common Stock, as the case may be, to such holder at the address of such
holder as listed in the stock record books of the Corporation (which may
include the records of any transfer agent for the Class A Preferred Stock or
the Common Stock, as the case may be) or (iii) to such other address as the
Corporation shall have designated by notice similarly given.  

  (B)       In the event that, at any time as a result of an adjustment made
pursuant to Section 8 or 9, the holder of any share of the Class A Preferred
Stock upon thereafter surrendering such shares for conversion shall become
entitled to receive any shares or other securities of the Corporation other
than shares of Common Stock, the Conversion Ratio in respect of such other
shares or securities so receivable upon conversion of shares of Class A
Preferred Stock shall thereafter be adjusted, and shall be subject to further
adjustment from time to time, in a manner and on terms as nearly equivalent as
practicable to the provisions with respect to Common Stock contained in
Sections 8 or 9, and the provisions of each of the other Sections hereof with
respect to the Common Stock shall apply on like or similar terms to any such
other shares or securities.  Any determination in good faith by the Corporation
as to any adjustment of the Conversion Ratio pursuant to this Section 11 (B)
shall be conclusive.  

  (C)       The Corporation shall pay any and all issuance, stock transfer
and documentary stamp taxes that may be payable in respect of any issuance or
delivery of shares of Class A Preferred Stock or Common Stock or other
securities issued upon conversion of Class A

19           

Preferred Stock pursuant hereto or certificates
representing such shares or securities.  The Corporation shall not, however, be
required to pay any such tax which may be payable in respect of any transfer
involved in the issuance or delivery of shares of Common Stock or other
securities in a name other then that in which the shares of Class A Preferred
Stock with respect to which such shares or other securities are issued or
delivered were registered, or in respect of any payment to any person with
respect to any such shares or securities other than a payment to the registered
holder thereof, and shall not be required to make any such issuance, delivery
or payment unless and until the person otherwise entitled to such issuance,
delivery or payment has paid to the Corporation the amount of any such tax for
issuance, transfer or documentary stamp taxes or has established, to the
satisfaction of the Corporation, that such tax has been paid or is not payable.  

  (D)       In the event that a holder of shares of Class A Preferred
Stock shall not by written notice designate the name in which (i) shares of
Common Stock or (ii) any other securities in accordance with this Exhibit A, to
be issued upon conversion of such shares should be registered or to whom
payment upon redemption of shares of Class A Preferred Stock should be made or
the address to which the certificate or certificates representing such shares,
or such payment, should be sent, the Corporation shall be entitled to register
such shares, and make such payment, in the name of the holder of such Class A
Preferred Stock as shown on the records of the Corporation and to send the
certificate or certificates representing such shares, or such payment, to the
address of such holder shown on the records of the Corporation.  

  (E)       Unless otherwise provided in the Certificate of Incorporation,
as the same may be amended, all payments of (x) dividends upon the shares of
any class of stock and upon any other class of stock ranking on a parity with
such first class of stock with respect to such dividends shall be made pro
rata, so that amounts paid per share on such first class of stock and such
other class of stock shall in all cases bear to each other the same ratio that
the required dividends then payable per share on the shares of such first class
of stock and such other class of stock bear to each other and (y) distributions
on voluntary or involuntary dissolution, liquidation or winding-up or otherwise
made upon the shares of any class of stock and upon any other class of stock
ranking on a parity with such first class of stock with respect to such distributions
shall be made pro rata, so that amounts paid per share on such first class of
stock and such other class of stock shall in all cases bear to each other the
same ratio that the required distributions then payable per share on the shares
of such first class of stock and such other class of stock bear to each other.  

  (F)       The Corporation may appoint, and from time to time discharge
and change, a transfer agent for the Class A Preferred Stock.  Upon any such
appointment or discharge of a transfer agent, the Corporation shall send notice
thereof by first class mail, postage prepaid, to each holder of record of Class
A Preferred Stock.  So long as there is a transfer agent for a class of stock,
a holder thereof shall give any notices to the Corporation required hereunder
to the transfer agent at the address of the transfer agent last given by the
Corporation.  

  (G)       If the Corporation and the holder so agree, any shares of
Class A Preferred Stock or any shares of Common Stock into which the shares of
Class A Preferred Stock shall be converted, may be uncertificated shares,    provided    
that the names of the holders of all uncertificated shares and the number of
such shares held by each holder shall be registered at the offices of the
Corporation or the transfer agent for such shares.  In the event that any
shares shall be uncertificated, all references herein to the surrender or
issuance of stock certificates shall have no application to such uncertificated
shares.  

20           

PART II  

  Class
B Preferred Stock  

  1.         Designation and Issuance  

  (A)       The shares of such class shall be designated CLASS B PREFERRED
STOCK (hereinafter referred to as  Class B Preferred Stock ) and the number of
shares constituting such class shall be 165,800.  Such number of shares may be
increased or decreased by resolution of the Board of Directors, but no such
decrease shall reduce the number of shares of Class B Preferred Stock to a
number less than that of the shares then outstanding plus the number of shares
issuable upon exercise of any rights, options or warrants or upon conversion of
outstanding securities issued by the Corporation.  All shares of Class B
Preferred Stock redeemed or purchased by the Corporation shall be retired and
shall be restored to the status of authorized but unissued shares of preferred
stock without designation.  

  (B)       Shares of Class B Preferred Stock shall be issued only to a
trustee or trustees acting on behalf of an employee stock ownership trust or
plan or other employee benefit plan ( Plan ) of Mobil Corporation or Mobil Oil
Corporation    (   collectively,  Mobil Oil ).  In the event of any sale,
transfer or other disposition (hereinafter a  transfer ) of shares of Class B
Preferred Stock to any person other than (x) any trustee or trustees of the
Plan and (y) any pledgee of such shares acquiring such shares as security for
any loan or loans made to the Plan or to any trustee or trustees acting on
behalf of the Plan, the shares of Class B Preferred Stock so transferred, upon
such transfer and without any further action by the Corporation or the holder
shall be automatically converted into shares of the Common Stock (as defined in
Section 10) at the Conversion Price (as hereinafter defined) and on the terms
otherwise provided for the conversion of shares of Class B Preferred Stock into
shares of Common Stock pursuant to Section 5 hereof and no such transferee
shall have any of the voting powers, preferences and relative, participating,
optional or special rights ascribed to shares of Class B Preferred Stock
hereunder but, rather, only the powers and rights pertaining to the Common
Stock into which such shares of Class B Preferred Stock shall be so converted,
provided, however, that in the event of a foreclosure or other realization upon
shares of Class B Preferred Stock pledged as security for any loan or loans
made to the Plan or to the trustee or the trustees acting on behalf of the
Plan, the pledged shares so foreclosed or otherwise realized upon shall
(subject to the holder s right of redemption set forth in Section 7(B) hereof)
be automatically converted into shares of Common Stock at the Conversion Price
and on the terms otherwise provided for conversions of shares of Class B
Preferred Stock into shares of Common Stock pursuant to Section 5 hereof.  In
the event of such a conversion, such transferee shall be treated for all
purposes as the record holder of the shares of Common Stock into which the
Class B Preferred Stock shall have been converted as of the date of such
conversion.  Certificates representing shares of Class B Preferred Stock shall
be legended to reflect such restrictions on transfer.  Notwithstanding the
foregoing provisions of this Section 1, shares of Class B Preferred Stock (i)
may be converted into shares of Common Stock as provided by Section 5 hereof
and the shares of Common Stock issued upon such conversion may be transferred
by the holder thereof as permitted by law and (ii) shall be redeemable by the
Corporation upon the terms and conditions provided by Sections 6, 7 and 8
hereof.  

21           

2.         Dividends and Distributions.  

  (A)(1)  Subject to the provisions for adjustment hereinafter set forth,
the holders of shares of Class B Preferred Stock shall be entitled to receive,
when and as declared by the Board of Directors out of funds legally available
therefor, cash dividends ( Regular Preferred Dividends ) in an amount per share
initially equal to $300 per share per annum, subject to adjustment from time to
time as hereinafter provided, and no more, except as provided in Section
2(A)(2) (such amount, as adjusted from time to time, being hereinafter referred
to as the  Regular Preferred Dividend Rate ), payable semiannually in arrears,
one-half on the last day of February, and one-half on the last day of August of
each year (each a  Dividend Payment Date ) to holders of record at the start of
business on such Dividend Payment Date.  The first dividend payable on each
share of Class B Preferred Stock shall accrue from the date of original
issuance thereof, except that the first dividend payable on shares of Class B
Preferred Stock issued on conversion of Mobil Corporation Series B ESOP
Convertible Preferred Stock ( Mobil Series B Stock ) shall accrue and be
cumulative from the last dividend payment date of the Mobil Series B Stock and
shall include any arrearage on the Mobil Series B Stock.  Regular Preferred
Dividends shall accrue on a daily basis, based on the Regular Preferred
Dividend Rate in effect on such date, whether or not the Corporation shall have
earnings or surplus at the time, computed on the basis of a 360-day year of
30-day months in case of any period less than a full semiannual period. 
Accrued but unpaid Regular Preferred Dividends, shall cumulate as of the
Dividend Payment Date on which they first become payable, but no interest shall
accrue on accumulated but unpaid Regular Preferred Dividends.    

  (2)        In the event that for any period of six (6) months preceding
any Dividend Payment Date (each such period, a  Dividend Period ) the aggregate
fair value (as determined by the Board of Directors) of all dividends and other
distributions declared per share of Common Stock during such Dividend Period
multiplied by the number of shares of Common Stock into which a share of Class
B Preferred Stock was convertible on the appropriate dividend payment date for
the Common Stock shall exceed the amount of the Regular Preferred Dividends
accrued on a share of Class B Preferred Stock during such Dividend Period, the
holders of shares of the Class B Preferred Stock shall be entitled to receive,
when and as declared by the Board of Directors out of funds legally available
therefor, cash dividends (the  Supplemental Preferred Dividends ) in an amount
per share (with appropriate adjustments to reflect any stock split or
combination of shares or other adjustment provided for in Section 9) equal to
the amount of such excess up to but not exceeding (x) the product of twelve and
one-half per cent (12.5%) times the average of the Fair Market Values of the
number of shares of Common Stock into which a share of Class B Preferred Stock
was convertible on the day next preceding the ex-dividend date for each such
dividend and the distribution date for each such distribution on the Common
Stock of the Corporation minus (y) such amount of accrued Regular Preferred
Dividends.  The calculation of each Supplemental Preferred Dividend shall be
subject to adjustment corresponding to the adjustments provided in Section 9
hereof.  Supplemental Preferred Dividends shall accrue and cumulate as of the
close of each relevant Dividend Period and shall be payable on the Dividend
Payment Date next following the close of any such Dividend Period, but no
interest shall accrue on accumulated but unpaid Supplemental Preferred
Dividends and no Supplemental Preferred Dividends shall accrue in respect of
any period of less than six months.  

  (B)(1)  No full dividends shall be declared or paid or set apart for
payment on any shares ranking, as to dividends, on a parity with or junior to
the Class B Preferred Stock, for any

22           

period unless full cumulative dividends (which for all
purposes of this resolution shall include Regular Preferred Dividends and
Supplemental Preferred Dividends) have been or contemporaneously are declared
and paid or declared and a sum sufficient for the payment thereof set apart for
such payment on the Class B Preferred Stock for all Dividend Payment Dates
occurring on or prior to the date of payment of such full dividends.  When
dividends are not paid in full, as aforesaid, upon the shares of Class B
Preferred Stock and any other shares ranking, as to dividends, on a parity with
Class B Preferred Stock, all dividends declared upon shares of Class B
Preferred Stock shall be declared pro rata so that the amount of dividends
declared per share on Class B Preferred Stock and such other parity shares
shall in all cases bear to each other the same ratio that accumulated dividends
per share on the shares of Class B Preferred Stock and such other parity shares
bear to each other.  Except as otherwise provided herein, holders of shares of
Class B Preferred Stock shall not be entitled to any dividends, whether payable
in cash, property or shares, in excess of full cumulative dividends, as herein
provided, on Class B Preferred Stock.  

  (2)        So long as any shares of Class B Preferred Stock are
outstanding, no dividend (other than dividends or distributions paid in shares
of, or options, warrants or rights to subscribe for or purchase shares of,
Common Stock or other shares ranking junior to Class B Preferred Stock as to
dividends and upon liquidation and other than as provided in Section 2(B)(1))
shall be declared or paid or set aside for payment or other distribution
declared or made upon the Common Stock or upon any other shares ranking junior
to or on a parity with Class B Preferred Stock as to dividends or upon liquidation,
nor shall any Common Stock or any other shares of the Company ranking junior to
or on a parity with Class B Preferred Stock as to dividends or upon liquidation
be redeemed, purchased or otherwise acquired for any consideration (or any
moneys be paid to or made available for a sinking fund for the redemption of
any such shares) by the Corporation (except by conversion into or exchange for
shares of the Corporation ranking junior to Class B Preferred Stock as to
dividends and upon liquidation) unless, in each case, the full cumulative
dividends on all outstanding shares of Class B Preferred Stock shall have been
paid   .      

  (3)        Any dividend payment made on shares of Class B Preferred
Stock shall first be credited against the earliest accumulated but unpaid dividend
due with respect to shares of Class B Preferred Stock.  

  3.         Liquidation Preference  

  (A)       In the event of any liquidation, dissolution or winding-up of
the Corporation, whether voluntary or involuntary, before any payment or
distribution of the assets of the Corporation (whether capital or surplus)
shall be made to or set apart for the holders of any series or classes of stock
of the Corporation ranking junior to Class B Preferred Stock upon liquidation,
dissolution or winding-up, the holders of Class B Preferred Stock shall be
entitled to receive the Liquidation Price (as hereinafter defined) per share in
effect at the time of liquidation, dissolution or winding-up plus an amount
equal to all dividends accrued (whether or not accumulated) and unpaid thereon
to the date of final distribution to such holders, but such holders shall not
be entitled to any further payments.  The Liquidation Price per share which
holders of Class B Preferred Stock shall receive upon liquidation, dissolution
or winding-up shall be $3,887.50, subject to adjustment as hereinafter
provided.  If, upon any liquidation, dissolution or winding-up of the
Corporation, the assets of the Corporation, or proceeds thereof, distributable
among the holders of Class B Preferred Stock shall be insufficient to pay in
full the preferential

23           

amount aforesaid and liquidating payments on any other
shares ranking as to liquidation, dissolution or winding-up, on a parity with
Class B Preferred Stock, then such assets, or the proceeds thereof, shall be distributed
among the holders of Class B Preferred Stock and any such other shares ratably
in accordance with the respective amounts which would be payable on such shares
of Class B Preferred Stock and any such other shares if all amounts payable
thereon were paid in full.  For the purposes of this Section 3, a consolidation
or merger of the Corporation with one or more corporations shall not be deemed
to be a liquidation, dissolution or winding-up, voluntary and involuntary.  

  (B)       Subject to the rights of the holders of shares of any series
or class or classes of stock ranking on a parity with or prior to Class B
Preferred Stock upon liquidation, dissolution or winding-up, upon any
liquidation, dissolution or winding-up of the Corporation, after payment shall
have been made in full to the holders of Class B Preferred Stock as provided in
this Section 3, but not prior thereto, any other series or class or classes of
stock ranking junior to Class B Preferred Stock upon liquidation, dissolution
or winding-up shall, subject to the respective terms and provisions (if any)
applying thereto, be entitled to receive any and all assets remaining to be
paid or distributed, and the holders of Class B Preferred Stock shall not be
entitled to share therein.  

  4.         Ranking and Voting of Shares.  

  (A)       Any shares of the Corporation shall be
deemed to rank:  

  (1)        prior to Class B Preferred Stock as to dividends or as to
distribution of assets upon liquidation, dissolution or winding-up, if the
holders of such class shall be entitled to the receipt of dividends or of
amounts distributable upon liquidation, dissolution or winding-up, as the case
may be, in preference or priority to the holders of Class B Preferred Stock,  

  (2)        on a parity with Class B Preferred Stock as to dividends or
as to distribution of assets upon liquidation, dissolution or winding-up,
whether or not the dividend rates, dividend payment dates, or redemption or
liquidation prices per share thereof be different from those of Class B
Preferred Stock, if the holders of such class of stock and Class B Preferred
Stock shall be entitled to the receipt of dividends or of amounts distributable
upon liquidation, dissolution or winding-up, as the case may be, in proportion
to their respective dividend or liquidation amounts, as the case may be,
without preference or priority one over the other, and   

  (3)        junior to Class B Preferred Stock as to dividends or as to
the distribution of assets upon liquidation, dissolution or winding-up, if such
shares shall be Common Stock or if the holders of Class B Preferred Stock shall
be entitled to receipt of dividends or of amounts distributable upon
liquidation, dissolution or winding-up, as the case may be, in preference or
priority to the holders of such shares. Unless otherwise provided in the Restated
Certificate of Incorporation of the Corporation, as the same may be amended,
including an amendment relating to any subsequent class or series of preferred
stock, the Class B Preferred Stock shall rank junior to all classes or series
of the Corporation s preferred stock as to dividends and the distribution of
assets upon liquidation, dissolution or winding-up.  

24           

(B)       The holders of shares of Class B
Preferred Stock shall have the following voting rights:  

  (1)        The holders of Class B Preferred Stock shall be entitled to
vote on all matters submitted to a vote of the shareholders of the Corporation,
voting together with the holders of Common Stock as one class.  The holder of
each share of Class B Preferred Stock shall be entitled to a number of votes equal
to the number of shares of Common Stock into which such Class B Preferred Stock
could be converted on the record date for determining the shareholders entitled
to vote; it being understood that whenever the  Conversion Price  (as defined
in Section 5 hereof) is adjusted as provided in Section 9 hereof, the number of
votes of the Class B Preferred Stock shall also be correspondingly adjusted.  

  (2)        Except as otherwise required by law or set forth herein,
holders of Class B Preferred Stock shall have no special voting rights and
their consent shall not be required (except to the extent they are entitled to
vote with holders of Common Stock as set forth herein) for the taking of any
corporate action, including the issuance of any preferred stock now or hereafter
authorized, provided, however, that the vote of at least 66-2/3% of the
outstanding shares of Class B Preferred Stock, voting separately as a class,
shall be necessary to approve any alteration, amendment or repeal of any
provision of the Restated Certificate of Incorporation or any alteration,
amendment or repeal of any provision of the resolutions relating to the
designation, preferences and rights of Class B Preferred Stock (including any
such alteration, amendment or repeal effected by any merger or consolidation in
which the Corporation is the surviving or resulting corporation), if such
amendment, alteration or repeal would alter or change the powers, preferences,
or special rights of the Class B Preferred Stock so as to affect them
adversely.  

  5.         Conversion into Common Stock.  

  (A)       A holder of shares of Class B Preferred Stock shall be
entitled, at any time prior to the close of business on the date fixed for
redemption of such shares pursuant to Sections 6, 7 or 8 hereof, to cause any
or all of such shares to be converted into shares of Common Stock.  The number
of shares of Common Stock into which each share of the Class B Preferred Stock
may be converted shall be determined by dividing the Liquidation Price in
effect at the time of conversion by the Conversion Price (as hereinafter
defined) in effect at the time of conversion.  The Conversion Price per share
at which shares of Common Stock shall be initially issuable upon conversion of
any shares of Class B Preferred Stock shall be $29.447411       subject to
adjustment as hereinafter provided; that is, a conversion rate initially
equivalent to 132.015 shares of Common Stock for each share of Class B
Preferred Stock, which is subject to adjustment as hereinafter provided.  

  (B)       Any holder of shares of Class B Preferred Stock desiring to
convert such shares into shares of Common Stock shall surrender, if
certificated, the certificate or certificates representing the shares of Class
B Preferred Stock being converted, duly assigned or endorsed for transfer to
the Corporation (or accompanied by duly executed stock powers relating
thereto), or if uncertificated, a duly executed stock power relating thereto,
at the principal executive office of the Corporation or the offices of the
transfer agent for the Class B Preferred Stock or such office or offices in the
continental United States of an agent for conversion as may from time to time
be designated by notice to the holders of the Class B Preferred Stock by the
Corporation or the transfer agent for the Class B Preferred Stock, accompanied
by written notice of conversion.  Such notice of conversion shall specify (i)
the number of shares of Class B Preferred Stock to be converted and the name or
names in which such holder wishes the Common Stock and any      

25           

shares
of Class B Preferred Stock not to be so converted to be issued, and (ii) the
address to which such holder wishes delivery to be made of a confirmation of
such conversion, if uncertificated, or any new certificate which may be issued
upon such conversion if certificated.  

  (C)       Upon surrender, if certificated, of a certificate representing
a share or shares of Class B Preferred Stock for conversion, or if
uncertificated, of a duly executed stock power relating thereto, the
Corporation shall issue and send by hand delivery (with receipt to be
acknowledged) or by first class mail, postage prepaid, to the holder thereof or
to such holder s designee, at the address designated by such holder, if
certificated, a certificate or certificates for, or if uncertificated,
confirmation of, the number of shares of Common Stock to which such holder
shall be entitled upon conversion.  In the event that there shall have been
surrendered shares of Class B Preferred Stock, only part of which are to be
converted, the Corporation shall issue and deliver to such holder or such
holder s designee, if certificated, a new certificate or certificates
representing the number of shares of Class B Preferred Stock which shall not
have been converted, or if uncertificated, confirmation of the number of shares
of Class B Preferred Stock which shall not have been converted.  

  (D)       The issuance by the Corporation of shares of Common Stock upon
a conversion of shares of Class B Preferred Stock into shares of Common Stock
made at the option of the holder thereof shall be effective as of the earlier
of (i) the delivery to such holder or such holder s designee of the
certificates representing the shares of Common Stock issued upon conversion
thereof if certificated or confirmation if uncertificated or (ii) the commencement
of business on the second business day after the surrender of the certificate
or certificates, if certificated, or a duly executed stock power, if
uncertificated, for the shares of Class B Preferred Stock to be converted.  On
and after the effective date of conversion, the person or persons entitled to
receive Common Stock issuable upon such conversion shall be treated for all
purposes as the record holder or holders of such shares of Common Stock, but no
allowance or adjustment shall be made in respect of dividends payable to
holders of Common Stock of record on any date prior to such effective date. 
The Corporation shall not be obligated to pay any dividends which shall have
been declared and shall be payable to holders of shares of Class B Preferred
Stock on a Dividend Payment Date if such Dividend Payment Date for such
dividend shall be on or subsequent to the effective date of conversion of such
shares.  

  (E)       The Corporation shall not be obligated to deliver to holders
of Class B Preferred Stock any fractional share or shares of Common Stock
issuable upon any conversion of such shares of Class B Preferred Stock, but in
lieu thereof may make a cash payment in respect thereof in any manner permitted
by law.  

  (F)       The Corporation shall at all times reserve and keep available
out of its authorized and unissued Common Stock or treasury Common Stock,
solely for issuance upon the conversion of shares of Class B Preferred Stock as
herein provided, such number of shares of Common Stock as shall from time to time
be issuable upon the conversion of all the shares of Class B Preferred Stock
then outstanding.  

  6.         Redemption at the Option of the
Corporation.  

                          (A)       The
Class B Preferred Stock shall be redeemable, in whole or in part, at the option
of the Corporation, out of funds legally available therefor, at any time after
November 22, 1999 at 100% of the Liquidation Price per share in effect on the
date fixed for redemption, plus an amount equal to all accrued (whether or not
accumulated) and unpaid dividends thereon

26           

to the date fixed for redemption.  The Class B
Preferred Stock shall be redeemable, in whole or in part, out of funds legally
available therefor, on or before November 22, 1999 only if permitted by Section
6 (C) or (D) at a price per share equal to, (i) if pursuant to Section 6(C),
the redemption price set forth therein, or (ii) if pursuant to Section 6(D),
100.775% of the Liquidation Price in effect on the date fixed for redemption,
plus, in each case, an amount equal to all accrued (whether or not accumulated)
and unpaid dividends thereon to the date fixed for redemption.  Payment of the
redemption price shall be made by the Corporation in cash or shares of Common
Stock, or a combination thereof, as permitted by Section 6(E).  From and after
the date fixed for redemption, dividends on shares of Class B Preferred Stock
called for redemption will cease to accrue, such shares will no longer be
deemed to be outstanding and all rights in respect of such shares of the
Corporation shall cease, except for the right to receive the redemption price. 
If less than all of the outstanding shares of Class B Preferred Stock are to be
redeemed, the Corporation shall either redeem a portion of the shares of each
holder determined pro rata based on the number of shares held by each holder or
shall select the shares to be redeemed by lot, as may be determined by the
Board of Directors of the Corporation.  

(B)       Unless otherwise required by law, notice of redemption will be
sent to the holders of Class B Preferred Stock at the address shown on the
books of the Corporation or any transfer agent for Class B Preferred Stock by
first class mail, postage prepaid, mailed not less than twenty (20) days nor
more than sixty (60) days prior to the redemption date.  Each notice shall
state:  (i) the redemption date; (ii) the total number of shares of the Class B
Preferred Stock to be redeemed and, if fewer than all the shares held by such
holder are to be redeemed, the number of such shares to be redeemed from such
holder; (iii) the redemption price; (iv) the place or places where
certificates, if certificated, for such shares are to be surrendered for
payment of the redemption price; (v) that dividends on the shares to be
redeemed will cease to accrue on such redemption date; (vi) the conversion
rights of the shares to be redeemed, the period within which such conversion
rights may be exercised, and the Conversion Price and number of shares of
Common Stock issuable upon conversion of a share of Class B Preferred Stock at
the time.  Upon surrender of the certificates, if certificated, for any shares
so called for redemption, or upon the date fixed for redemption if
uncertificated such shares if not previously converted shall be redeemed by the
Corporation on the date fixed for redemption and at the redemption price set
forth in this Section 6.  

  (C)       In the event (i) of a change in the federal tax law or
regulations of the United States of America or of an interpretation or
application of such law or regulations or of a determination by a court of competent
jurisdiction, which in any case has the effect of precluding the Corporation
from claiming (other than for purposes of calculating any alternative minimum
tax) any of the tax deductions for dividends paid on the Class B Preferred
Stock when such dividends are used as provided under Section 404(k)(2) of the
Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended (the  Code ) as in effect on the date
shares of Class B Preferred Stock are initially issued, or (ii) that the
Corporation certifies to the holders of the Class B Preferred Stock that the
Corporation has determined in good faith that the Plan either is not qualified
within the meaning of Section 401(a) of the Code or is not an  employee stock
ownership plan  within the meaning of 4975(e)(7) of the Code, the Corporation
may, in its sole discretion and notwithstanding anything to the contrary in
Section 6(A), at any time within one year of the occurrence of such event,
elect either to (a) redeem any or all of such Class B Preferred Stock for cash
or, if the Corporation so elects, in shares of Common Stock, or a combination
of such shares of Common Stock and cash, as permitted by Section 6(B), at a
redemption price equal to the higher of (x) the

27           

Liquidation Price per share on the date fixed for
redemption or (y) the Fair Market Value (as defined in Section 9(G)(2)) of the
number of shares of Common Stock into which each share of Class B Preferred
Stock is convertible at the time the notice of such redemption is given, plus
in either case an amount equal to accrued (whether or not accumulated) and
unpaid dividends thereon to the date fixed for redemption, or (b) exchange any
or all of such shares of Class B Preferred Stock for securities of comparable
value (as determined by an independent appraiser) that constitute  qualifying
employer securities  with respect to a holder of Class B Preferred Stock within
the meaning of Section 409(1) of the Code and Section 407(d)(5) of the
Employment Retirement Income Security Act of 1974, as amended ( ERISA ) or any
successor provisions of law.  

  (D)       Notwithstanding anything to the contrary in Section 6(A), in
the event that the Employees Savings Plan of Mobil Oil is terminated or the
Employee Stock Ownership Plan incorporated therein is terminated or eliminated
from such Plan, the Corporation may, in its sole discretion, call for
redemption of any or all of the then outstanding Class B Preferred Stock at a
redemption price calculated on the basis of the redemption prices provided in
Section 6(A), increased by 50% of the amount thereof in excess of 100% of the
Liquidation Price in effect on the date fixed for redemption.  

  (E)       The Corporation, at its option, may make payment of the
redemption price required upon redemption of shares of Class B Preferred Stock
in cash or in shares of Common Stock, or in a combination of such shares and
cash, any such shares of Common Stock to be valued for such purpose at their
Fair Market Value (as defined in Section 9(G)(2)); provided, however, that in
calculating their Fair Market Value the Adjustment Period shall be deemed to be
the five (5) consecutive trading days preceding the date of redemption.  

  7.         Redemption at the Option of the Holder.  

  (A)       Unless otherwise provided by law, shares of Class B Preferred
Stock shall be redeemed by the Corporation out of funds legally available
therefor for cash or, if the Corporation so elects, in shares of Common Stock,
or a combination of such shares and cash, any such shares of Common Stock to be
valued for such purpose as provided by Section 6(E), at a redemption price
equal to the higher of (x) the Liquidation Price per share in effect on the
date fixed for redemption or (y) the Fair Market Value of the number of shares
of Common Stock into which each share of Class B Preferred Stock is convertible
at the time the notice of such redemption is given plus in either case an
amount equal to accrued (whether or not accumulated) and unpaid dividends
thereon to the date fixed for redemption, at the option of the holder, at any
time and from time to time upon notice to the Corporation given not less than
five (5) business days prior to the date fixed by the holder in such notice of
redemption, when and to the extent necessary for such holder to provide for
distributions required to be made under, or to satisfy an investment election
provided to participants in accordance with, the Employee Stock Ownership Plan
incorporated in the Employees Savings Plan of Mobil Oil, or any successor plan
or when the holder elects to redeem shares of Class B Preferred Stock in
respect of any Regular or Supplemental Preferred Dividend (a  Dividend
Redemption ).  In the case of any Dividend Redemption, such holder shall give
the notice specified above within five (5) business days after the related
Dividend Payment Date and such redemption shall be effective as to such number
of shares of Class B Preferred Stock as shall equal (x) the aggregate amount of
such Regular or Supplemental Preferred Dividend with respect to shares of Class
B Preferred Stock allocated or credited to the accounts of participants in the
Employee Stock Ownership Plan incorporated in the Employees Savings Plan of
Mobil Oil, or any successor plan divided by (y) the redemption price specified
above.  

28           

(B)       Shares of Class B Preferred Stock
shall be redeemed by the Corporation out of funds legally available therefor
for cash or, if the Corporation so elects, in shares of Common Stock, or a
combination of such shares of Common Stock and cash, any such shares of Common
Stock to be valued for such purpose as provided by Section 6(E), at a
redemption price equal to the Liquidation Price plus an amount equal to accrued
and unpaid dividends thereon to the date fixed for redemption, at the option of
the holder, at any time and from time to time upon notice to the Corporation
given not less than five (5) business days prior to the date fixed by the
holder in such notice for such redemption, upon certification by such holder to
the Corporation of the following events:  (i) when and to the extent necessary
for such holder to make any payments of principal, interest or premium due and
payable (whether as scheduled, upon acceleration or otherwise) upon any
obligations of the trust established under the Employee Stock Ownership Plan
incorporated in the Employees Savings Plan of Mobil Oil in connection with the
acquisition of Class B Preferred Stock or any indebtedness, expenses or costs
incurred by the holder for the benefit of the Plan; or (ii) when and if it
shall be established to the satisfaction of the holder that the Plan has not
initially been determined by the Internal Revenue Service to be qualified as a
stock bonus plan and an employee stock ownership plan within the meaning of
Sections 401(a) or 4975(e)(7) of the Code, respectively.  

  8.         Consolidation, Merger, etc.  

  (A)       In the event that the Corporation shall consummate any
consolidation or merger or similar transaction, however named, pursuant to
which the outstanding shares of Common Stock are by operation of law exchanged
solely for or changed, reclassified or converted solely into shares of any
successor or resulting company (including the Corporation) that constitute
 qualifying employer securities  that are common stock with respect to a holder
of Class B Preferred Stock within the meanings of Section 409(1) of the Code
and Section 407(d)(5) of ERISA, or any successor provision of law, and, if
applicable, for a cash payment in lieu of fractional shares, if any, then, in
such event, the terms of such consolidation or merger or similar transaction
shall provide that the shares of Class B Preferred Stock of such holder shall
be converted into or exchanged for and shall become preferred shares of such
successor or resulting company, having in respect of such company insofar as
possible the same powers, preferences and relative, participating, optional or
other special rights (including the redemption rights provided by Sections 6,
7, and 8 hereof), and the qualifications, limitations or restrictions thereon,
that the Class B Preferred Stock had immediately prior to such transaction;
provided, however, that after such transaction each share of stock into which
the Class B Preferred Stock is so converted or for which it is exchanged shall
be convertible, pursuant to the terms and conditions provided by Section 5
hereof, into the number and kind of qualifying employer securities receivable
by a holder of the number of shares of Common Stock into which such shares of
Class B Preferred Stock could have been converted pursuant to Section 5 hereof
immediately prior to such transaction and provided, further, that if by virtue
of the structure of such transaction, a holder of Common Stock is required to
make an election with respect to the nature and kind of consideration to be
received in such transaction, which election cannot practicably be made by the
holders of the Class B Preferred Stock, then such election shall be deemed to
be solely for  qualifying employer securities  (together, if applicable, with a
cash payment in lieu of fractional shares) with the effect provided above on
the basis of the number

29           

and kind of qualifying employer securities receivable
by a holder of the number of shares of Common Stock into which the shares of
Class B Preferred Stock could have been converted pursuant to Section 5 hereof
immediately prior to such transaction (it being understood that if the kind or
amount of qualifying employer securities receivable in respect of each share of
Common Stock upon such transaction is not the same for each such share, then
the kind and amount of qualifying employer securities deemed to be receivable
in respect of each share of Common Stock for purposes of this proviso shall be
the kind and amount so receivable per share of Common Stock by a plurality of
such shares).  The rights of the Class B Preferred Stock as preferred shares of
such successor resulting company shall successively be subject to adjustments
pursuant to Section 9 hereof after any such transaction as nearly equivalent to
the adjustments provided for by such Section prior to such transaction.  The
Corporation shall not consummate any such merger, consolidation or similar
transaction unless all the terms of this Section 8(A) are complied with.  

  (B)       In the event that the Corporation shall consummate any
consolidation or merger or similar transaction, however named, pursuant to
which the outstanding shares of Common Stock are by operation of law exchanged
for or changed, reclassified or converted into other shares or securities or
cash or any other property, or any combination thereof, other than any such
consideration which is constituted solely of qualifying employer securities
that are common stock (as referred to in Section 8(A)) and cash payments, if
applicable, in lieu of fractional shares, outstanding shares of Class B
Preferred Stock shall, without any action on the part of the Corporation or any
holder thereof (but subject to Section 8(C)), be automatically converted
immediately prior to the consummation of such merger, consolidation or similar
transaction into shares of Common Stock at the conversion rate then in effect
so that each share of Class B Preferred Stock shall, by virtue of such
transaction and on the same terms as apply to the holders of Common Stock, be
converted into or exchanged for the aggregate amount of shares, securities,
cash or other property (payable in like kind) receivable by a holder of the
number of shares of Common Stock into which such shares of Class B Preferred
Stock could have been converted immediately prior to such transaction if such
holder of Common Stock failed to exercise any rights of election as to the kind
or amount of shares, securities, cash or other property receivable upon such
transaction (provided that, if the kind or amount of shares, securities, cash
or other property receivable upon such transaction is not the same for each
non-electing share, then the kind and amount of shares, securities, cash or
other property receivable upon such transaction for each non-electing share
shall be the kind and amount so receivable per share by a plurality of
non-electing shares).  

  (C)       In the event the Corporation shall enter into any agreement
providing for any consolidation or merger or similar transaction described in
Section 8(B), then the Corporation shall as soon as practicable thereafter (and
in any event at least ten (10) business days before consummation of such
transaction) give notice of such agreement and the material terms thereof to
each holder of Class B Preferred Stock and each such holder shall have the
right to elect, by written notice to the Corporation, to receive, upon consummation
of such transaction (if and when such transaction is consummated), out of funds
legally available therefor, from the Corporation or the successor of the
Corporation, in redemption and retirement of such Class B Preferred Stock, in
lieu of any cash or other securities which such holder would otherwise be
entitled to receive under Section 8(B) hereof, a cash payment equal to the
redemption price specified in Section 6(A) in effect on the date of the
consummation of such transaction plus an amount equal to all accrued (whether
or not accumulated) and unpaid dividends.  No such notice

30           

of redemption shall be effective unless given to the
Corporation prior to the close of business of the fifth business day prior to
consummation of such transaction, unless the Corporation or the successor of
the Corporation shall waive such prior notice, but any notice of redemption so
given prior to such time may be withdrawn by notice of withdrawal given to the
Corporation prior to the close of business on the fifth business day prior to
consummation of such transaction.  

  9.         Anti-dilution Adjustments.  

                          (A)(1)  Subject
to the provisions of Section 9(E), in the event the Corporation shall, at any
time or from time to time while any of the shares of the Class B Preferred Stock
are outstanding, (i) pay a dividend or make a distribution in respect of the
Common Stock in shares of Common Stock or (ii) subdivide the outstanding shares
of Common Stock into a greater number of shares, in each case whether by
reclassification of shares, recapitalization of the Corporation (excluding a
recapitalization or reclassification effected by a merger or consolidation to
which Section 8 hereof applies) or otherwise, then, in such event, the Board of
Directors shall, to the extent legally permissible, declare a dividend in
respect of the Class B Preferred Stock in shares of Class B Preferred Stock (a
 Special Dividend ) in such a manner that a holder of Class B Preferred Stock
will become a holder of that number of shares of Class B Preferred Stock equal
to the product of the number of such shares held prior to such event times a
fraction (the  Sec. 9(A) Non-Dilutive Share Fraction ), the numerator of which
is the number of shares of Common Stock outstanding immediately after such
event and the denominator of which is the number of shares of Common Stock
outstanding immediately before such event.  A Special Dividend declared
pursuant to this Section 9(A)(1) shall be effective, upon payment of such
dividend or distribution in respect of the Common Stock, as of the record date
for the determination of shareholders entitled to receive such dividend or
distribution (on a retroactive basis), and in the case of a subdivision shall
become effective immediately as of the effective date thereof.  Concurrently
with the declaration of the Special Dividend pursuant to this Section 9(A)(1),
the Conversion Price, the Liquidation Price and the Regular Preferred Dividend
Rate of all shares of Class B Preferred Stock shall be adjusted by dividing the
Conversion Price, the Liquidation Price and the Regular Preferred Dividend
Rate, respectively, in effect immediately before such event by the Sec. 9(A)
Non-Dilutive Share Fraction.  

  (2)        The Corporation and the Board of Directors shall each use its
best efforts to take all necessary steps or to take all actions as are
reasonably necessary or appropriate for declaration of the Special Dividend
provided in Section 9(A)(1) but shall not be required to call a special meeting
of shareholders in order to implement the provisions thereof.  If for any
reason the Board of Directors is precluded from giving full effect to the
Special Dividend provided in Section 9(A)(1), then no such Special Dividend
shall be declared, but instead the Conversion Price shall automatically be
adjusted by dividing the Conversion Price in effect immediately before the
event by the Sec. 9(A) Non-Dilutive Share Fraction and the Liquidation Price
and the Regular Preferred Dividend Rate will not be adjusted.  An adjustment to
the Conversion Price made pursuant to this Section 9(A)(2) shall be given
effect, upon payment of such a dividend or distribution, as of the record date
for the determination of holders entitled to receive such dividend or
distribution (on a retroactive basis), and in the case of a subdivision shall
become effective immediately as of the effective date thereof.  If subsequently
the Board of Directors is able to give full effect to the Special Dividend as
provided in Section 9(A)(1), then such Special Dividend will be declared and
other adjustments will be made in accordance with the provisions of Section
9(A)(1) and the adjustment in the Conversion Price as provided in this Section
9(A)(2) will automatically be reversed and nullified prospectively.   

31           

(3)        Subject to the provisions of Section
9(E) hereof, in the event the Corporation shall, at any time or from time to
time while any of the shares of the Class B Preferred Stock are outstanding,
combine the outstanding shares of Common Stock into a lesser number of shares,
whether by reclassification of shares, recapitalization of the Corporation
(excluding a recapitalization or reclassification effected by a merger,
consolidation or other transaction to which Section 8 hereof applies) or
otherwise, then, in such event, the Conversion Price shall automatically be
adjusted by dividing the Conversion Price in effect immediately before such
event by the Sec. 9(A) Non-Dilutive Share Fraction and the Liquidation Price
and the Regular Preferred Dividend Rate will not be adjusted.  An adjustment to
the Conversion Price made pursuant to this Section 9(A)(3) shall be given
effect immediately as of the effective date of such combination.  

  (B)(1)  Subject to the provisions of Section 9(E), in the event the
Corporation shall, at any time or from time to time while any of the shares of
Class B Preferred Stock are outstanding issue to holders of shares of Common
Stock as a dividend or distribution, including by way of reclassification of
shares or a recapitalization of the Corporation, any right or warrant to purchase
shares of Common Stock (but not including as a right or warrant for this
purpose any security convertible into or exchangeable for shares of Common
Stock) for a consideration having a Fair Market Value (as defined in Section 9
(G)(2) hereof) per share less than the Fair Market Value of a share of Common
Stock on the date of issuance of such right or warrant, then, in such event,
the Board of Directors shall, to the extent legally permissible, declare a
Special Dividend in such a manner that a holder of Class B Preferred Stock will
become a holder of that number of shares of Class B Preferred Stock equal to
the product of the number of such shares held prior to such event times a
fraction (the  Sec. 9(B) Non-Dilutive Share Fraction ), the numerator of which
is the number of shares of Common Stock outstanding immediately before such
issuance of rights or warrants plus the maximum number of shares of Common
Stock that could be acquired upon exercise in full of all such rights and
warrants and the denominator of which is the number of shares of Common Stock
outstanding immediately before such issuance of warrants or rights plus the
number of shares of Common Stock which could be purchased at the Fair Market
Value of a share of Common Stock at the time of such issuance for the maximum
aggregate consideration payable upon exercise in full of all such rights and
warrants.  A Special Dividend declared pursuant to this Section 9(B)(1) shall
be effective upon such issuance of rights or warrants.  Concurrently with the
declaration of the Special Dividend pursuant to this Section 9(B)(1), the
Conversion Price, the Liquidation Price and the Regular Preferred Dividend Rate
of all shares of Class B Preferred Stock shall be adjusted by dividing the
Conversion Price, the Liquidation Price and the Regular Preferred Dividend
Rate, respectively, in effect immediately before such event by the Sec. 9(B)
Non-Dilutive Share Fraction.  

  (2)        The Corporation and the Board of Directors shall each use its
best efforts to take all necessary steps or to take all actions as are
reasonably necessary or appropriate for declaration of the Special Dividend
provided in Section 9(B)(1) but shall not be required to call a special meeting
of shareholders in order to implement the provisions thereof.  If for any
reason the Board of Directors is precluded from giving full effect to the
Special Dividend provided in Section 9(B)(1), then no such Special Dividend
shall be declared, but instead the Conversion Price shall automatically be
adjusted by dividing the Conversion Price in effect immediately

32           

before the event by the Sec. 9(B) Non-Dilutive Share
Fraction and the Liquidation Price and the Preferred Dividend Rate will not be
adjusted.  An adjustment to the Conversion Price made pursuant to this Section 9(B)(2)
shall be given effect upon issuance of rights or warrants.  If subsequently the
Board of Directors is able to give full effect to the Special Dividend as
provided in Section 9(B)(1), then such Special Dividend will be declared and
other adjustments will be made in accordance with the provisions of Section
9(B)(1) and the adjustment in the Conversion Price as provided in this Section
9(B)(2) will automatically be reversed and nullified prospectively.  

  (C)(1)(i)           Subject to the provisions of Section 9(E), in the
event the Corporation shall, at any time or from time to time while any of the
shares of Class B Preferred Stock are outstanding, issue, sell or exchange
shares of Common Stock (other than pursuant to (x) any right or warrant to
purchase or acquire shares of Common Stock (including as such a right or
warrant any security convertible into or exchangeable for shares of Common
Stock),  or (y) any employee or director incentive, compensation or benefit
plan or arrangement of the Corporation or any subsidiary of the Corporation
heretofore or hereafter adopted) at a purchase price per share less than the
Fair Market Value of a share of Common Stock on the date of such issuance, sale
or exchange, then, in such event, the Board of Directors shall, to the extent
legally permissible, declare a Special Dividend in such a manner that a holder
of Class B Preferred Stock will become the holder of that number of shares of
Class B Preferred Stock equal to the product of the number of such shares held
prior to such event times a fraction (the  Sec. 9(C)(1)(i) Non-Dilutive Share
Fraction ), the numerator of which is the number of shares of Common Stock
outstanding immediately before such issuance, sale or exchange plus the number
of shares of Common Stock so issued, sold or exchanged and the denominator of
which is the number of shares of Common Stock outstanding immediately before
such issuance, sale or exchange plus the number of shares of Common Stock which
could be purchased at the Fair Market Value of a share of Common Stock at the
time of such issuance, sale or exchange for the maximum aggregate consideration
paid therefor.  

  (ii)        In the event that the Corporation shall, at any time or from
time to time while any Class B Preferred Stock is outstanding, issue, sell or
exchange any right or warrant to purchase or acquire shares of Common Stock
(including as such a right or warrant any security convertible into or
exchangeable for shares of Common Stock other than pursuant to (x) any employee
or director incentive, compensation or benefit plan or arrangement of the
Corporation or any subsidiary of the Corporation heretofore or hereafter
adopted and (y) any dividend or distribution on shares of Common Stock
contemplated in Section 9(A)(1)) for a consideration having a Fair Market
Value, on the date of such issuance, sale or exchange, less than the
Non-Dilutive Amount (as defined in Section 9(G)(3) hereof), then, in such
event, the Board of Directors shall, to the extent legally permissible, declare
a Special Dividend in such a manner that a holder of Class B Preferred Stock
will become the holder of that number of shares of Class B Preferred Stock
equal to the product of the number of such shares held prior to such event
times a fraction (the  Sec. 9(C)(1)(ii) Non-Dilutive Share Fraction ), the
numerator of which is the number of shares of Common Stock outstanding
immediately before such issuance of rights or warrants plus the maximum number
of shares of Common Stock that could be acquired upon exercise in full of all
such rights and warrants and the denominator of which is the number of shares
of Common Stock outstanding immediately before such issuance of rights or
warrants plus the number of shares of Common Stock which could be purchased at
the Fair Market Value of a share of Common Stock at the time of such issuance
for the total of (x) the maximum

33           

aggregate consideration payable at the time of the
issuance, sale or exchange of such right or warrant and (y) the maximum
aggregate consideration payable upon exercise in full of all such rights or
warrants.  

  (iii)       A Special Dividend declared pursuant to this Section 9(C)(1)
shall be effective upon the effective date of such issuance, sale or exchange. 
Concurrently with the declaration of the Special Dividend pursuant to this Section
9(C)(1), the Conversion Price, the Liquidation Price and the Regular Preferred
Dividend Rate of all shares of Class B Preferred Stock shall be adjusted by
dividing the Conversion Price, the Liquidation Price and the Regular Preferred
Dividend Rate, respectively, in effect immediately before such event by the
Sec. 9(C)(1)(i) or Sec. 9(C)(1)(ii) Non-Dilutive Share Fraction, as the case
may be.  

  (2)        The Corporation and the Board of Directors shall each use its
best efforts to take all necessary steps or to take all actions as are
reasonably necessary or appropriate for declaration of the Special Dividend
provided in Section 9(C)(1)(i) or (ii) but shall not be required to call a
special meeting of shareholders in order to implement the provisions thereof. 
If for any reason the Board of Directors is precluded from giving full effect
to any Special Dividend provided in Section 9(C)(1), then no such Special
Dividend shall be declared, but instead the Conversion Price shall
automatically be adjusted by dividing the Conversion Price in effect
immediately before the event by the Sec. 9(C)(1)(i) or Sec. 9(C)(1)(ii)
Non-Dilutive Share Fraction, as the case may be, and the Liquidation Price and
the Regular Preferred Dividend Rate will not be adjusted.  An adjustment to the
Conversion Price made pursuant to this Section 9(C)(2) shall be given effect
upon the effective date of such issuance, sale or exchange.  If subsequently
the Board of Directors is able to give full effect to the Special Dividend as
provided in Section 9(C)(1), then such Special Dividend will be declared and
other adjustments will be made in accordance with the provisions of Section
9(C)(1) and the adjustment in the Conversion Price as provided in this Section
9(C)(2) will automatically be reversed and nullified prospectively.  

  (D)(1)  Subject to the provisions of Section 9(E), in the event the
Corporation shall, at any time or from time to time while any of the shares of
Class B Preferred Stock are outstanding, make an Extraordinary Distribution (as
defined in Section 9(G)(1) hereof) in respect of the Common Stock, whether by
dividend, distribution, reclassification of shares or recapitalization of the
Corporation (including capitalization or reclassification effected by a merger
or consolidation to which Section 8 hereof does not apply) or effect a Pro Rata
Repurchase (as defined in Section 9(G)(4) hereof) of Common Stock, then, in
such event, the Board of Directors shall, to the extent legally permissible,
declare a Special Dividend in such a manner that a holder of Class B Preferred
Stock will become a holder of that number of shares of Class B Preferred Stock
equal to the product of the number of such shares held prior to such event
times a fraction (the  Sec. 9(D) Non-Dilutive Share Fraction ), the numerator
of which is the product of (a) the number of shares of Common Stock outstanding
immediately before such Extraordinary Distribution or Pro Rata Repurchase
minus, in the case of a Pro Rata Repurchase, the number of shares of Common
Stock repurchased by the Corporation multiplied by (b) the Fair Market Value of
a share of Common Stock on the day before the ex-dividend date with respect to
an Extraordinary Distribution which is paid in cash and on the distribution
date with respect to an Extraordinary Distribution which is paid other than in
cash, or on the applicable expiration date (including all extensions thereof)
of any tender offer which is a Pro Rata Repurchase or on the date of purchase
with respect to any Pro Rata Repurchase which is not a

34           

tender offer, as the case may be, and the denominator
of which is (i) the product of (x) the number of shares of Common Stock
outstanding immediately before such Extraordinary Distribution or Pro Rata
Repurchase multiplied by (y) the Fair Market Value of a share of Common Stock
on the day before the ex-dividend date with respect to an Extraordinary
Distribution which is paid in cash and on the distribution date with respect to
an Extraordinary Distribution which is paid other than in cash, or on the
applicable expiration date (including all extensions thereof) of any tender
offer which is a Pro Rata Repurchase, or on the date of purchase with respect
to any Pro Rata Repurchase which is not a tender offer, as the case may be,
minus (ii) the Fair Market Value of the Extraordinary Distribution or the
aggregate purchase price of the Pro Rata Repurchase, as the case may be.  The
Corporation shall send each holder of Class B Preferred Stock (i) notice of its
intent to make an Extraordinary Distribution and (ii) notice of any offer by
the Corporation to make a Pro Rata Repurchase, in each case at the same time
as, or as soon as practicable after, such offer is first communicated to
holders of Common Stock or, in the case of an Extraordinary Distribution, the
announcement of a record date in accordance with the rules of any stock
exchange on which the Common Stock is listed or admitted to trading.  Such
notice shall indicate the intended record date and the amount and nature of
such dividend or distribution, or the number of shares subject to such offer
for a Pro Rata Repurchase and the purchase price payable by the Corporation
pursuant to such offer, as well as the Conversion Price and the number of
shares of Common Stock into which a share of Class B Preferred Stock may be
converted at such time.  Concurrently with the Special Dividend paid pursuant
to this Section 9(D)(1), the Conversion Price, the Liquidation Price and the
Regular Preferred Dividend Rate of all shares of Class B Preferred Stock shall
be adjusted by dividing the Conversion Price, the Liquidation Price and the
Regular Preferred Dividend Rate, respectively, in effect immediately before
such Extraordinary Distribution or Pro Rata Repurchase by the Sec. 9(D)
Non-Dilutive Share Fraction determined pursuant to this Section 9(D)(1).  

  (2)        The Corporation and the Board of Directors shall each use its
best efforts to take all necessary steps or to take all actions as are
reasonably necessary or appropriate for declaration of the Special Dividend
provided in Section 9(D)(1) but shall not be required to call a special meeting
of shareholders in order to implement the provisions thereof.  If for any
reason the Board of Directors is precluded from giving full effect to the
Special Dividend provided in Section 9(D)(1), then no such Special Dividend
shall be declared, but instead the Conversion Price shall automatically be
adjusted by dividing the Conversion Price in effect immediately before the
event by the Sec. 9(D) Non-Dilutive Share Fraction, and the Liquidation Price and
the Regular Preferred Dividend Rate will not be adjusted.  If subsequently the
Board of Directors is able to give full effect to the Special Dividend as
provided in Section 9(D)(1), then such Special Dividend will be declared and
other adjustments will be made in accordance with the provisions of Section
9(D)(1) and the adjustment in the Conversion Price as provided in this Section
9(D)(2) will automatically be reversed and nullified prospectively.  

  (E)       Notwithstanding any other provision of this Section 9, the
Corporation shall not be required to make (i) any Special Dividend or any
adjustment of the Conversion Price, the Liquidation Price or the Regular
Preferred Dividend Rate unless such adjustment would require an increase or
decrease of at least one percent (1%) in the number of shares of Class B
Preferred Stock outstanding, or, (ii) if no additional shares of Class B
Preferred Stock are issued, any adjustment of the Conversion Price unless such
adjustment would require an increase or decrease of at least one percent (1%)
in the Conversion Price.  Any lesser adjustment

35           

shall be carried forward and shall be made no later
than the time of, and together with, the next subsequent adjustment which,
together with any adjustment or adjustments so carried forward, shall amount to
an increase or decrease of at least one percent (1%) of the number of shares of
Class B Preferred Stock outstanding or, if no additional shares of Class B
Preferred Stock are being issued, an increase or decrease of at least one percent
(1%) of the Conversion Price, whichever the case may be.  

  (F)       If the Corporation shall make any dividend or distribution on
the Common Stock or issue any Common Stock, other capital stock or other
security of the Corporation or any rights or warrants to purchase or acquire
any such security, which transaction does not result in an adjustment to the
number of shares of Class B Preferred Stock outstanding or the Conversion Price
pursuant to the foregoing provisions of this Section 9, the Board of Directors of
the Corporation may, in its sole discretion, consider whether such action is of
such a nature that some type of equitable adjustment should be made in respect
of such transaction.  If in such case the Board of Directors of the Corporation
determines that some type of adjustment should be made, an adjustment shall be
made effective as of such date as determined by the Board of Directors of the
Corporation.  The determination of the Board of Directors of the Corporation as
to whether some type of adjustment should be made pursuant to the foregoing
provisions of this Section 9(F), and, if so, as to what adjustment should be
made and when, shall be final and binding on the Corporation and all
shareholders of the Corporation.  The Corporation shall be entitled to make
such additional adjustments, in addition to those required by the foregoing
provisions of this Section 9, as shall be necessary in order that any dividend
or distribution in shares of capital stock of the Corporation, subdivision,
reclassification or combination of shares of the Corporation or any
recapitalization of the Corporation shall not be taxable to holders of the
Common Stock.  

  (G)       For
purposes hereof, the following definitions shall apply:  

  (1)         Extraordinary Distribution  shall mean any dividend or other
distribution to holders of Common Stock effected while any of the shares of
Class B Preferred Stock are outstanding of (i) cash or (ii) any shares of
capital stock of the Corporation (other than shares of Common Stock), other
securities of the Corporation (other than securities of the type referred to in
Section 9(B)), evidences of indebtedness of the Corporation or any other person
or any other property (including shares of any subsidiary of the Corporation),
or any combination thereof, where the aggregate amount of such cash dividend or
other distribution together with the amount of all cash dividends and other
distributions made during the preceding period of twelve (12) months, when
combined with the aggregate amount of all Pro Rata Repurchases (for this
purpose, including only that portion of the aggregate purchase price of such
Pro Rata Repurchase which is in excess of the Fair Market Value of the Common
Stock repurchased as determined on the applicable expiration date (including
all extensions thereof) of any tender offer or exchange offer which is a Pro
Rata Repurchase, or the date of purchase with respect to any other Pro Rata
Repurchase which is not a tender offer or exchange offer) made during such
period, exceeds twelve and one-half percent (12.5%) of the aggregate Fair
Market Value of all shares of Common Stock outstanding on the day before the
ex-dividend date with respect to such Extraordinary Distribution which is paid
in cash and on the distribution date with respect to an Extraordinary
Distribution which is paid other than in cash.  The Fair Market Value of an
Extraordinary Distribution for purposes of Section 9(D) shall be the sum of the
Fair Market Value of such Extraordinary Distribution plus the aggregate amount
of any cash dividends or

36           

other distributions which are not Extraordinary
Distributions made during such twelve month period and not previously included
in the calculation of an adjustment pursuant to Section 9(D), but shall exclude
the aggregate amount of regular quarterly dividends declared by the Board of
Directors and paid by the Corporation in such twelve month period.  

  (2)         Fair Market Value  shall mean, as to shares of Common Stock
or any other class of capital stock or securities of the Corporation or any
other issuer which are publicly traded, the average of the Current Market
Prices (as hereinafter defined) of such shares or securities for each day of
the Adjustment Period (as hereinafter defined).   Current Market Price  of
publicly traded shares of Common Stock or any other class of capital stock or
other security of the Corporation or any other issuer for a day shall mean the
last reported sales price, regular way, or, in case no sale takes place on such
day, the average of the reported closing bid and asked prices, regular way, in
either case as reported on the New York Stock Exchange Composite Tape or, if
such security is not listed or admitted to trading on the New York Stock
Exchange, on the principal national securities exchange on which such security
is listed or admitted to trading or, if not listed or admitted to trading on
any national securities exchange, on the NASDAQ National Market System or, if
such security is not quoted on such National Market System, the average of the
closing bid and asked prices on each such day in the over-the-counter market as
reported by NASDAQ or, if bid and asked prices for such security on each such
day shall not have been reported through NASDAQ, the average of the bid and
asked prices for such day as furnished by any New York Stock Exchange member
firm regularly making a market in such security selected for such purpose by
the Board of Directors of the Corporation on each trading day during the
Adjustment Period.   Adjustment Period  shall mean the period of five consecutive
trading days, selected by the Board of Directors of the Corporation, during the
twenty (20) trading days preceding, and including, the date as of which the
Fair Market Value of a security is to be determined.  The  Fair Market
Value  of any security which is not publicly traded or of any other
property shall mean the fair value thereof as determined by an independent
investment banking or appraisal firm experienced in the valuation of such
securities or property selected in good faith by the Board of Directors of the
Corporation, or, if no such investment banking or appraisal firm is in the good
faith judgment of the Board of Directors available to make such determination,
as determined in good faith by the Board of Directors of the Corporation.  

  (3)         Non-Dilutive Amount  in respect of an issuance,
sale or exchange by the Corporation of any right or warrant to purchase or
acquire shares of Common Stock (including any security convertible into or
exchangeable for shares of Common Stock) shall mean the difference between (i)
the product of the Fair Market Value of a share of Common Stock on the day
preceding the first public announcement of such issuance, sale or exchange
multiplied by the maximum number of shares of Common Stock which could be
acquired on such date upon the exercise in full of such rights or warrants
(including upon the conversion or exchange of all such convertible or
exchangeable securities), whether or not exercisable (or convertible or
exchangeable) at such date, and (ii) the aggregate amount payable pursuant to
such right or warrant to purchase or acquire such maximum number of shares of
Common Stock; provided, however, that in no event shall the Non-Dilutive Amount
be less than zero.  For purposes of the foregoing sentence, in the case of a
security convertible into or exchangeable for shares of Common Stock, the
amount payable pursuant to a right or warrant to purchase or acquire shares of
Common Stock shall be the Fair Market Value of such security on the date of the
issuance, sale or exchange of such security by the Corporation.   

37           

(4)         Pro Rata Repurchase 
shall mean any purchase of shares of Common Stock by the Corporation or any
subsidiary thereof, whether for cash, shares of capital stock of the
Corporation, other securities of the Corporation, evidences of indebtedness of
the Corporation or any other person or any other property (including shares of
a subsidiary of the Corporation ), or any combination thereof, effected while
any of the shares of Class B Preferred Stock are outstanding, pursuant to any
tender offer or exchange offer subject to Section 13(e) of the Securities
Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (the  Exchange Act ), or any
successor provision of law, or pursuant to any other offer available to
substantially all holders of Common Stock, provided, however, that no purchase
of shares by the Corporation or any subsidiary thereof made in open market
transactions shall be deemed a Pro Rata Repurchase.  For purposes of this
Section 9(G), shares shall be deemed to have been purchased by the Corporation
or any subsidiary thereof  in open market transactions  if they have
been purchased substantially in accordance with the requirements of Rule 10b-18
as in effect under the Exchange Act on the date shares of Class B Preferred
Stock are initially issued by the Corporation or on such other terms and
conditions as the Board of Directors of the Corporation shall have determined
are reasonably designed to prevent such purchases from having a material effect
on the trading market for the Common Stock.  

  (H)       Whenever an adjustment increasing the number of shares of
Class B Preferred Stock outstanding is required pursuant hereto, the Board of
Directors shall take action as is necessary so that a sufficient number of
shares of Class B Preferred Stock are designated with respect to such increase
resulting from such adjustment.  Whenever an adjustment to the Conversion
Price, the Liquidation Price or the Regular Preferred Dividend Rate of the
Class B Preferred Stock is required pursuant hereto, the Corporation shall
forthwith place on file with the transfer agent for the Common Stock and the
Class B Preferred Stock, if there be one, and with the Treasurer of the
Corporation, a statement signed by the Treasurer or any Assistant Treasurer of
the Corporation stating the adjusted Conversion Price, Liquidation Price and
Regular Preferred Dividend Rate determined as provided herein.  Such statement
shall set forth in reasonable detail such facts as shall be necessary to show
the reason and the manner of computing such adjustment, including any
determination of Fair Market Value involved in such computation.  Promptly
after each adjustment to the number of shares of Class B Preferred Stock
outstanding, the Conversion Price, the Liquidation Price or the Regular
Preferred Dividend Rate, the Corporation shall mail a notice thereof and of the
then prevailing number of shares of Class B Preferred Stock outstanding, the
Conversion Price, the Liquidation Price and the Regular Preferred Dividend Rate
to each holder of shares of Class B Preferred Stock.   

  10.       Miscellaneous.  

              (A)       All notices referred to herein shall be in writing,
and all notices hereunder shall be deemed to have been given upon the earlier
of receipt thereof or three (3) business days after the mailing thereof if sent
by registered mail (unless first-class mail shall be specifically permitted for
such notice under the terms hereof) with postage prepaid, addressed:  (i) if to
the Corporation, to its office at 5959 Las Colinas Boulevard, Irving, Texas 75039
(Attention:  Treasurer) or to the transfer agent for the Class B Preferred
Stock, or other agent of the Corporation designated as permitted hereby or (ii)
if to any holder of the Class B Preferred Stock or Common Stock, as the case
may be, to such holder at the address of such holder as listed in the stock
record books of the Corporation (which may include the records of any transfer
agent for the Class B Preferred Stock or Common Stock, as the case may be) or
(iii) to such other address as the Corporation or any such holder, as the case
may be, shall have designated by notice similarly given.   

38           

(B)       The term  Common
Stock  as used herein means the Corporation s no par value common stock,
as the same exists at the Effective Date, or any other class of stock resulting
from successive changes or reclassifications of such Common Stock consisting
solely of changes in par value, or from par value to without par value, or from
without par value to par value.  In the event that, at any time as a result of
an adjustment made pursuant to Section 9 hereof, the holder of any shares of
the Class B Preferred Stock upon thereafter surrendering such shares for
conversion shall become entitled to receive any shares or other securities of
the Corporation other than shares of Common Stock, the anti-dilution provisions
contained in Section 9 hereof shall apply in a manner and on terms as nearly
equivalent as practicable to the provisions with respect to Common Stock, and
the provisions of Sections 1 through 8 and 10 hereof with respect to the Common
Stock shall apply on like or similar terms to any such other shares of
securities.  

              (C)       The term  Effective Date  shall mean the date of
effectiveness of the Certificate of Merger of Lion Acquisition Subsidiary
Corporation with and into Mobil Corporation filed in the office of the
Secretary of State of the State of Delaware.  

              (D)       The Corporation shall pay any and all stock
transfer and documentary stamp taxes that may be payable in respect of any
issuance or delivery of shares of Class B Preferred Stock or shares of Common
Stock or other securities issued on account of Class B Preferred Stock pursuant
thereto or certificate representing such shares or securities.  The Corporation
shall not, however, be required to pay any such tax which may be payable in
respect of any transfer involved in the issuance or delivery of shares of Class
B Preferred Stock or Common Stock or other securities in a name other than that
in which the shares of Class B Preferred Stock with respect to which such shares
or other securities are issued or delivered were registered, or in respect of
any payment to any person with respect to any such shares or securities other
than a payment to the registered holder thereof, and shall not be required to
make any such issuance, delivery or payment unless and until the person
otherwise entitled to such issuance, delivery or payment has paid to the
Corporation the amount of any such tax or has established, to the satisfaction
of the Corporation, that such tax has been paid or is not payable.  

              (E)       In the event that a holder of shares of Class B
Preferred Stock shall not by written notice designate the name in which shares
of Common Stock to be issued upon conversion of such shares should be
registered or to whom payment upon redemption of shares of Class B Preferred
Stock should be made or the address to which the certificate or certificates
representing such shares, or such payment, should be sent, the Corporation
shall be entitled to register such shares, and make such payment, in the name
of the holder of such Class B Preferred Stock as shown on the records of the
Corporation and to send the certificate or certificates or other documentation
representing such shares, or such payment, to the address of such holder shown
on the records of the Corporation.   

              (F)       The Corporation may appoint, and from time to time
discharge and change, a transfer agent for the Class B Preferred Stock.  Upon
any such appointment or discharge of a transfer agent, the Corporation shall
send notice thereof by first-class mail, postage prepaid, to each holder of
record of Class B Preferred Stock.  

39           

(G)       Any shares of Common Stock
into which the shares of Class B Preferred Stock shall be converted, may be
uncertificated shares,    provided     that the names of the holders of all
uncertificated shares and the number of such shares held by each holder shall
be registered at the offices of the Corporation or the transfer agent for such
shares.  In the event that any shares shall be uncertificated, all references herein
to surrender or issuance of stock certificates shall have no application to
such uncertificated shares.  

40           

</EX-3.(I)>

<EX-3.(II)>
 3
 xomexhibit3ii.htm
 BY-LAWS

EXHIBIT
3(ii)    

EXXON MOBIL CORPORATION   

INCORPORATED IN NEW JERSEY   

BY-LAWS   

ARTICLE I   

Meetings of Shareholders   

1.   Meetings of shareholders may be held on such date and at such
time and place, within or without the State of New Jersey, as may be fixed by
the board of directors and stated in the notice of meeting.   

2.   The date for each annual meeting of shareholders, fixed as
provided in Section 1 of this Article I, shall be a date not more than thirteen
months after the date on which the last annual meeting of shareholders was
held. The directors shall be elected at the annual meeting of shareholders.   

3.   Special meetings of the shareholders may be called by the
board of directors, the chairman of the board or the president.   

4.   Except as otherwise provided by statute, written notice of
the date, time, place and purpose or purposes of every meeting of shareholders
shall be given not less than ten nor more than sixty days before the date of
the meeting, either personally or by mail, to each shareholder of record
entitled to vote at the meeting.  The business transacted at meetings shall be
confined to the purposes specified in the notice.   

5.   Unless otherwise provided by statute the holders of shares
entitled to cast a majority of votes at a meeting, present either in person or
by proxy, shall constitute a quorum at such meeting.  Less than a quorum may
adjourn.   

6.   For the purpose of determining the shareholders entitled to
notice of or to vote at any meeting of shareholders or any adjournment thereof,
or for the purpose of determining shareholders entitled to receive payment of
any dividend or allotment of any right, or for the purpose of any other action,
the board of directors may fix in advance a date as the record date for any
such determination of shareholders.  Such date shall not be more than sixty nor
less than ten days before the date of such meeting, nor more than sixty days
prior to any other action.   

7.   The board of directors may, in advance of any shareholders'
meeting, appoint one or more inspectors to act at the meeting or any
adjournment thereof.  If inspectors are not so appointed by the board or shall
fail to qualify, the person presiding at a shareholders' meeting may, and at
the request of any shareholder entitled to vote thereat, shall, make such
appointment.  In case any person appointed as inspector fails to appear or act,
the vacancy may be filled by appointment made by the board in advance of the
meeting or at the meeting by the person presiding at the meeting. Each
inspector, before entering upon the discharge of the duties of inspector, shall
take and sign an oath faithfully to execute such duties at such meeting with
strict impartiality and according to the best of the inspector's ability.   

The inspectors shall determine the number of shares
outstanding and the voting power of each, the shares represented at the
meeting, the existence of a quorum, the validity and effect of proxies, and
shall receive votes or consents, hear and determine all challenges and
questions arising in connection with the right to vote, count and tabulate all
votes or consents, determine the result, and do such acts as are proper to    

conduct the election or vote with
fairness to all shareholders.  If there are three or more inspectors, the act
of a majority shall govern.  On request of the person presiding at the meeting
or any shareholder entitled to vote thereat, the inspectors shall make a report
in writing of any challenge, question or matter determined by them.  Any report
made by them shall be prima facie evidence of the facts therein stated, and
such report shall be filed with the minutes of the meeting.   

ARTICLE II   

Board of Directors   

1.   The business and affairs of the corporation shall be managed
by its board of directors consisting of not less than ten nor more than
nineteen members, who shall hold office until the next annual meeting and until
their successors shall have been elected and qualified.  The actual number of
directors shall be determined from time to time by resolution of the board.  If
at any time, except at the annual meeting, the number of directors shall be
increased, the additional director or directors may be elected by the board, to
hold office until the next annual meeting and until their successors shall have
been elected and qualified.   

2.   The organization meeting of the board of directors, for the
purpose of organization or otherwise, shall be held without further notice on
the day of the annual meeting of shareholders, at such time and place as shall
be fixed from time to time pursuant to resolution of the board.  Other regular
meetings of the board may be held without further notice at such times and
places as shall be fixed from time to time pursuant to resolution of the
board.  The chairman of the board, the president, any vice president who is a
member of the board, or the secretary may change the day or hour or place of
any single regular meeting from that determined by the board upon causing that
prior notice of such change be transmitted to all directors.   

Special meetings of the board may be called at the direction
of the chairman of the board, of the president or of any vice president who is
a member of the board, or, in the absence of such officers, at the direction of
any one of the directors.  Any such meeting shall be held on such date and at
such time and place as may be designated in the notice of the meeting.   

Notices required under this section may be transmitted in
person, in writing, or by telephone, telegram, cable or radio, and shall be
effective whether or not actually received, provided they are duly transmitted
not less than forty-eight hours in advance of the meeting.  Notice may be
waived in writing before or after a meeting.  No notice or waiver need specify
the business scheduled for any board meeting and any business may be transacted
at either a regular or special meeting.   

3.   Five directors shall constitute a quorum for the transaction
of business, except that any directorship not filled at the annual meeting and
any vacancy, however caused, occurring in the board may be filled by the
affirmative vote of a majority of the remaining directors even though less than
a quorum of the board, or by a sole remaining director.  At any meeting of the
board, whether or not a quorum is present, a majority of those present may
adjourn the meeting.  Notice of an adjourned meeting need not be given if the
time and place are fixed at the meeting adjourning and if the period of
adjournment does not exceed ten days in any one adjournment.   

4.   (a) The provisions of this Section 4 of Article II shall be
operative during any emergency in the conduct of the business of the
corporation resulting from an attack on the United States or any nuclear or
atomic disaster or from the imminent threat of such an attack or disaster.  For
the purpose of this Section 4 of Article II, such an emergency is defined

- 2
-           

as any period following (i) an enemy attack on the
continental United States or any nuclear or atomic disaster as a result and
during the period of which the means of communication or travel within the
continental United States are disrupted or made uncertain or unsafe, or (ii) a
determination as herein provided that such an attack or disaster is imminent or
has occurred.  The commencement and termination of the period of any such
emergency may be determined by the chairman of the board or, in the event of
the death, absence or disability of the chairman of the board, by the
president, or in the event of the death, absence or disability of both the
chairman of the board and the president, by such person or persons as the board
of directors may from time to time designate, but in the absence of such
specific designation, by the executive or senior vice president who has been
designated pursuant to the authority of Section 6 of Article IV of these
by-laws to exercise the powers and perform the duties of the chairman of the
board and the president.  To the extent not inconsistent with the provisions of
this Section 4 of Article II, the by-laws in their entirety shall remain in
effect during any such emergency.   

(b) Before or during any such emergency, the board may change
the head office or designate several alternative head offices or regional
offices, or authorize the officers to do so, said change to be effective during
the emergency.   

(c) The officers or other persons designated by title in a
list approved by the board before or during the emergency, all who are known to
be alive and available to act in such order of priority and subject to such
conditions and for such period of time, not longer than reasonably necessary
after the termination of the emergency, as may be provided in the resolution of
the board approving the list, shall, to the extent required to provide a quorum
at any meeting of the board, be deemed and shall have all the powers of
directors for such meeting.  Unless so designated, an officer who is not a
director shall not be deemed a director for the foregoing purpose.   

(d) Meetings of the board may be called by any officer or
director or in the absence of all officers and directors by any person
designated in a list approved by the board pursuant to subsection (c) of this
Section 4. Any such meeting shall be held on such date and at such time and
place as may be designated in the notice of the meeting.  Notice of any such
meeting need be given only to such of the directors as it may be feasible to
reach at the time and such of the persons designated in such list as is
considered advisable in the judgment of the person calling the meeting.  Any
such notice may be transmitted in person, in writing, or by telephone,
telegram, cable or radio, or by such other means as may be feasible at the
time, shall be effective whether or not actually received and shall be given at
such time in advance of the meeting as, in the judgment of the person calling
the meeting, circumstances permit.   

(e) Three directors shall constitute a quorum for the
transaction of business.   

(f) Before or during any such emergency, the board by
resolution may (i) appoint one or more committees in addition to or in
substitution for one or more of those appointed pursuant to the provisions of
Article III of these by-laws to act during such emergency and (ii) take any of
the actions listed in Section 2 of Article III of these by-laws in regard to
any committee established pursuant to (i) of this subsection (f).  Each such
committee shall have at least three members, none of whom need be a director. 
To the extent provided in such resolution, each such committee shall have and
may exercise all the authority of the board, except that no such committee
shall take the action which Section 1 of Article III of these by-laws prohibits
committees of the board to take.   

- 3
-           

(g) Before or during any such emergency, the board may provide and
from time to time modify, lines of succession in the event that during such an
emergency any or all officers or agents of the corporation or any or all
members of any committee of the board shall for any reason be rendered
incapable of discharging their duties.   

(h) No officer, director or employee acting in accordance
with this Section 4 of Article II shall be liable except for willful
misconduct.  No officer, director or employee shall be liable for any action
taken in good faith in such an emergency in furtherance of the ordinary
business affairs of the corporation even though not authorized by the by-laws
then in effect.   

(i) Persons may conclusively rely upon a determination made
pursuant to subsection (a) of this Section 4 that an emergency as therein
defined exists regardless of the correctness of such determination.   

5.   No contract or other transaction between the corporation and
one or more of its directors or between the corporation and any other
corporation, firm or association of any type or kind in which one or more of
its directors are directors or are otherwise interested, shall be void or
voidable solely by reason of such common directorship or interest, or solely
because such director or directors are present at the meeting of the board or a
committee thereof which authorizes or approves the contract or transaction, or
solely because such director's or directors' votes are counted for such
purpose, if (a) the contract or other transaction is fair and reasonable as to
this corporation at the time it is authorized, approved or ratified, or (b) the
fact of the common directorship or interest is disclosed or known to the board
or committee and the board or committee authorizes, approves or ratifies the
contract or transaction by unanimous written consent, provided at least one
director so consenting is disinterested, or by affirmative vote of a majority
of the disinterested directors, even though the disinterested directors be less
than a quorum, or (c) the fact of the common directorship or interest is
disclosed or known to the shareholders and they authorize, approve or ratify
the contract or transaction.   

ARTICLE III   

Committees of the Board   

1.   The board, by resolution adopted by a majority of the entire
board, may appoint from among its members an executive committee and one or
more other committees, each of which shall have at least three members.  To the
extent provided in such resolution, each such committee shall have and may
exercise all the authority of the board, except that no such committee shall
(a) make, alter or repeal any by-law of the corporation; (b) elect any
director, or remove any officer or director; (c) submit to shareholders any
action that requires shareholders' approval; or (d) amend or repeal any resolution
theretofore adopted by the board which by its terms is amendable or repealable
only by the board.   

2.   The board, by resolution adopted by a majority of the entire
board, may (a) fill any vacancy in any such committee; (b) appoint one or more
directors to serve as alternate members of any such committee, to act in the
absence or disability of members of any such committee with all the powers of
such absent or disabled members; (c) abolish any such committee at its
pleasure; (d) remove any director from membership on such committee at any
time, with or without cause; and (e) establish as a quorum for any such
committee less than a majority of the entire committee, but in no case less
than the greater of two persons or one-third of the entire committee.   

- 4
-           

3.   Actions taken at a meeting
of any such committee shall be reported to the board at its next meeting
following such committee meeting; except that, when the meeting of the board is
held within two days after the committee meeting, such report shall, if not made
at the first meeting, be made to the board at its second meeting following such
committee meeting.   

ARTICLE IV   

Officers   

1.   The board of directors at the organization meeting on the day
of the annual election of directors shall elect a chairman of the board, a
president, one or more vice presidents as the board may determine, any one or
more of whom may be designated as executive vice president or as senior vice
president or in such special or limiting style as the board may determine, a
secretary, a treasurer, a controller, a general counsel, and a general tax
counsel.  The chairman of the board and the president shall each be a director,
but the other officers need not be members of the board.   

2.   The board of directors may from time to time elect, or
authorize an officer of the corporation to appoint in writing, assistant
secretaries, assistant treasurers, assistant controllers, and such other
officers as the board may designate.   

3.   All officers of the corporation, as between themselves and
the corporation, shall have such authority and perform such duties in the
management of the corporation as may be provided in these by-laws, or as may be
determined by resolution of the board not inconsistent with these by-laws.   

4.   The chairman of the board shall be chief executive officer of
the corporation and shall preside at all meetings of shareholders and
directors.  Subject to the board of directors, the chairman of the board shall
have general care and supervision of the business and affairs of the
corporation.  In the absence of the president, the chairman of the board shall
exercise the powers and perform the duties of the president.   

5.   The president shall, subject to the board of directors,
direct the current administration of the business and affairs of the
corporation.  In the absence of the chairman of the board, the president shall
preside at meetings of the shareholders and directors and exercise the other
powers and duties of the chairman.   

6.   In the event of the death, absence, or disability of the
chairman of the board and the president, an executive or senior vice president
may be designated by the board to exercise the powers and perform the duties of
those offices.   

7.   The secretary shall give notice of all meetings of the
shareholders and of the board of directors.  The secretary shall keep records
of the votes at elections and of all other proceedings of the shareholders and
of the board.  The secretary shall have all the authority and perform all the
duties normally incident to the office of secretary and shall perform such
additional duties as may be assigned to the secretary by the board, the
chairman of the board or the president.   

The assistant secretaries shall perform such of the duties of
the secretary as may be delegated to them by the secretary.   

- 5
-           

8.   The treasurer shall, unless
the board of directors specifies otherwise, be the principal financial officer
of the corporation.  The treasurer shall have charge and custody of all funds
and securities of the corporation; receive and give receipts for monies paid to
the corporation, and deposit such monies in the corporation's name in such
banks or other depositories as shall be selected for the purpose; and shall
cause money to be paid out as the corporation may require.  The treasurer shall
have all the authority and perform all the duties normally incident to the
office of treasurer and shall perform such additional duties as may be assigned
to the treasurer by the board of directors, the chairman of the board or the
president.   

The assistant treasurers shall perform such of the duties of
the treasurer as may be delegated to them by the treasurer.   

9.   The controller shall be the principal accounting and
financial control officer of the corporation.  The controller shall be
responsible for the system of financial control of the corporation, including
internal audits, the maintenance of its accounting records, and the preparation
of the corporation's financial statements.  The controller shall periodically
inform the board of directors of the corporation's financial results and position. 
The controller shall have all the authority and perform all the duties normally
incident to the office of controller and shall perform such additional duties
as may be assigned to the controller by the board of directors, the chairman of
the board or the president.   

The assistant controllers shall perform such of the duties of
the controller as may be delegated to them by the controller.   

10.  The general counsel shall advise the board of directors and
officers on legal matters, except those relating to taxes.  The general tax
counsel shall advise the board of directors and officers on legal matters
relating to taxes.  Each shall perform such additional duties as may be
assigned to either of them by the board of directors, the chairman of the board
or the president.   

11.  Any vacancy occurring among the officers, however caused, may
be filled by the board of directors except that any vacancy in the office of an
assistant secretary, assistant treasurer or assistant controller appointed by
an officer of the corporation may be filled by the officer, if any, then
authorized by the board to make appointments to such office.   

12.  Any officer may be removed by the board with or without
cause, and any assistant secretary, assistant treasurer or assistant controller
appointed by an officer of the corporation may be removed with or without cause
by the officer, if any, then authorized by the board to make appointments to
such office.   

ARTICLE V   

Divisions and Division Officers   

1.   The board of directors may from time to time establish one or
more divisions of the corporation and assign to such divisions responsibilities
for such of the corporation's business, operations and affairs as the board may
designate.   

2.   The board of directors may appoint or authorize an officer of
the corporation to appoint in writing officers of a division.  Unless elected
or appointed an officer of the corporation by the board of directors or
pursuant to authority granted by the board, an officer of a division shall not
as such be an officer of the corporation, except that such person shall be an
officer of the corporation for the purposes of executing and   

- 6
-           

delivering documents on behalf of
the corporation or for other specific purposes, if and to the extent that such
person may be authorized to do so by the board of directors.  Unless otherwise
provided in the writing appointing an officer of a division, such person's term
of office shall be for one year and until that person's successor is appointed
and qualified. Any officer of a division may be removed with or without cause
by the board of directors or by the officer, if any, of the corporation then
authorized by the board of directors to appoint such officer of a division.   

3.   The board of directors may prescribe or authorize an officer
of the corporation or an officer of a division to prescribe in writing the
duties and powers and authority of officers of divisions.   

ARTICLE VI   

Transfer of Shares   

1.   Shares of the corporation shall be transferable on the records
of the corporation in accordance with the provisions of Chapter 8 of the
Uniform Commercial Code (New Jersey Statutes 12A:8-101 et seq.), as amended
from time to time, except as otherwise provided in the New Jersey Business
Corporation Act (New Jersey Statutes 14A:l-l et seq.).   

2.   In the case of lost, destroyed or wrongfully taken
certificates, transfer shall be made only after the receipt of a sufficient
indemnity bond, if required by the board of directors, and satisfaction of
other reasonable requirements imposed by the board.   

3.   The board of directors may from time to time appoint one or
more transfer agents and one or more registrars of transfers.  All share
certificates shall bear the signature, which may be a facsimile, of a transfer
agent and of a registrar.  The functions of transfer agents and registrars
shall conform to such regulations as the board may from time to time
prescribe.  The board may at any time terminate the appointment of any transfer
agent or registrar.   

ARTICLE VII   

Fiscal Year   

The fiscal year of the corporation shall be the calendar
year.   

ARTICLE VIII   

Corporate Seal   

1.   The corporate seal is, and until otherwise ordered by the
board of directors shall be, a circle containing the words  EXXON MOBIL
CORPORATION, CORPORATE SEAL, 1882, NEW JERSEY  and may be an impression
thereof or printed or other facsimile reproduction.   

2.   The impression of the seal may be made and attested by either
the secretary or an assistant secretary for the authentication of contracts and
other papers requiring the seal.   

- 7
-           

ARTICLE
IX   

Amendments   

The board of directors shall have the power to make, alter
and repeal the by-laws of the corporation, but by-laws made by the board may be
altered or repealed, and new by-laws made, by the shareholders.   

ARTICLE X   

Indemnification   

1.   The corporation shall indemnify to the full extent from time
to time permitted by law any director or former director or officer or former
officer made, or threatened to be made, a party to, or a witness or other
participant in, any threatened, pending or completed action, suit or
proceeding, whether civil, criminal, administrative, arbitrative, legislative,
investigative, or of any other kind, by reason of the fact that such person is
or was a director, officer, employee or other corporate agent of the
corporation or any subsidiary of the corporation or serves or served any other
enterprise at the request of the corporation (including service as a fiduciary
with respect to any employee benefit plan of the corporation or any subsidiary
of the corporation) against expenses (including attorneys' fees), judgments,
fines, penalties, excise taxes and amounts paid in settlement, actually and
reasonably incurred by such person in connection with such action, suit or
proceeding, or any appeal therein.  No indemnification pursuant to this Article
X shall be required with respect to any settlement or other nonadjudicated
disposition of any threatened or pending action or proceeding unless the
corporation has given its prior consent to such settlement or other
disposition.   

2.   As any of the foregoing expenses are incurred, they shall be
paid by the corporation for the director or former director or officer or
former officer in advance of the final disposition of the action, suit or
proceeding promptly upon receipt of an undertaking by or on behalf of such
person to repay such payments if it shall ultimately be determined that such
person is not entitled to be indemnified by the corporation.   

3.   The foregoing indemnification and advancement of expenses
shall not be deemed exclusive of any other rights to which any person
indemnified may be entitled.   

4.   The rights provided to any person by this Article X shall be
enforceable against the corporation by such person, who shall be presumed to
have relied upon it in serving or continuing to serve as a director or in any
of the other capacities set forth in this Article X.  No elimination of or
amendment to this Article X shall deprive any person of rights hereunder
arising out of alleged or actual occurrences, acts or failures to act occurring
prior to notice to such person of such elimination or amendment.  The rights
provided to any person by this Article X shall inure to the benefit of such
person's legal representative.   

- 8
-           

</EX-3.(II)>

<EX-10.(III) (A3)>
 4
 xomexhibit10iiia3.htm
 EXTENDED PROVISIONS FOR RESTRICTED STOCK UNIT AGREEMENTS-SETTLEMENT IN SHARES

EXHIBIT 10(iii)(a.3)    

    November 24, 2015    

   Exxon Mobil
Corporation   

   Extended
Provisions for Restricted Stock Unit Agreements - Settlement in Shares   

1.        
    Effective Date and Credit of Restricted Stock Units    . 
If Grantee accepts the award on or before March 7, 2016, this Agreement will
become effective the date the Corporation receives the award acceptance. After
this agreement becomes effective, the Corporation will credit to Grantee the
number of restricted stock units specified in the award package. Subject to the
terms and conditions of this Agreement, each restricted stock unit
( unit ) will entitle Grantee to receive in settlement of the unit
one share of the Corporation's common stock.  

2.        
    Conditions    .  If credited,
the units will be subject to the provisions of this Agreement, and to such
regulations and requirements as the administrative authority of the Program may
establish from time to time. The units will be credited to Grantee only on the
condition that Grantee accepts such provisions, regulations, and requirements.  

3.        
    Restrictions and Risk             of Forfeiture    .  During the
applicable restricted periods specified in section 4 of this Agreement,  

  a)           the units under restriction may not be sold, assigned,
transferred, pledged, or otherwise disposed of or encumbered, and any attempt
to do so will be null and void; and  

  b)        
  the units under restriction may be forfeited as provided
in section 6.  

4.        
    Restricted              Periods    . 
The restricted periods will commence when the units are credited to Grantee
and, unless the units have been forfeited earlier under section 6, will expire
as follows, whether or not Grantee is still an employee:  

  a)           with respect to 50% of the units, on November 24, 2020;
and   

  b)        
  with respect to the remaining units, on the later to
occur of  

  (i)        
  November
  24,   
2025  , or  

  (ii)      
  the first day of the calendar year immediately following
the year in which Grantee terminates; except that  

      c)           the restricted periods will automatically expire with
respect to all shares on the death of Grantee.  

5.        
    No Obligation to Credit Units    . 
The Corporation will have no obligation to credit any units and will have no
other obligation to Grantee with respect to the subject matter of this
Agreement if Grantee fails to accept the award on or before March 7, 2016. In
addition, whether or not Grantee has accepted the award, the Corporation will
have no obligation to credit any units and will have no other obligation to
Grantee with respect to the subject matter of this Agreement if, before the
units are credited:  

  a)           Grantee terminates (other than by death) before standard
retirement time within the meaning of the Program, except to the extent the
administrative authority of the Program determines Grantee may receive units
under this Agreement; or  

  b)        
  Grantee is determined to have engaged in detrimental
activity within the meaning of the Program.  

6.        
    Forfeiture of Units After Crediting    . 
Until the applicable restricted period specified in section 4 has expired, the
units under restriction will be forfeited or subject to forfeiture in the
following circumstances:  

Termination    

  If Grantee terminates (other than by death) before
standard retirement time within the meaning of the Program, all units for which
the applicable restricted periods have not expired will be automatically
forfeited as of the date of termination, except to the extent the
administrative authority determines Grantee may retain units issued under this
Agreement.  

Detrimental             activity     

  If Grantee is determined to have engaged in detrimental
activity within the meaning of the Program, either before or after termination,
all units for which the applicable restricted periods have not expired will be
automatically forfeited as of the date of such determination.

1   

Attempted             transfer     

  The units are subject to forfeiture in the discretion of
the administrative authority if Grantee attempts to sell, assign, transfer,
pledge, or otherwise dispose of or encumber them during the applicable
restricted periods.  

Applicable             law     

  The units are subject to forfeiture in whole or in part
as the administrative authority deems necessary to comply with applicable law
or Corporation policy including, without limitation, any clawback obligations
determined to be owed by Grantee to the Corporation in connection with this or
other awards.  

7.        
    Taxes    .  Notwithstanding the
restrictions on transfer that otherwise apply, the Corporation in its sole
discretion may withhold units, or shares otherwise deliverable in settlement of
units, either at the time of crediting, at the time of settlement, or at any
other time in order to satisfy any required withholding, social security, and
similar taxes or contributions (collectively,  required taxes ).
Withheld units or shares may be retained by the Corporation or sold on behalf
of Grantee. The Corporation in its sole discretion may also withhold any
required taxes from dividend equivalents paid on the units.  

8.        
    Form of Units; No Shareholder Status    . 
The units will be represented by book-entry credits in records maintained by or
on behalf of the Corporation. Units will be unfunded and unsecured promises by
the Corporation to deliver shares in the future upon the terms and subject to
the conditions of this Agreement. Grantee will not be a shareholder of the
Corporation with respect to units prior to the time shares are actually
registered in Grantee's name in settlement of such units in accordance with
section 9.  

9.        
    Settlement of Units    . 
If and when the applicable restricted period expires with respect to any units,
subject to section 7, the Corporation will issue shares, free of restriction
and registered in the name of Grantee, in settlement of such units. Such shares
will be delivered promptly after such expiration to or for the account of
Grantee either in certificated form or by book-entry transfer in accordance
with the procedures of the administrative authority in effect at the time.  

10.     
    Dividend Equivalents    . 
The Corporation will pay to Grantee cash with respect to each credited unit
corresponding in amount, currency, and timing to cash dividends that would be
payable with respect to a share of common stock outstanding on each record date
that occurs during the applicable restricted period. Alternatively, the
administrative authority may determine to reinvest such dividend equivalents in
additional units which will be held subject to all the terms and conditions
otherwise applicable to units under this Agreement.  

11.     
    Change in Capitalization    . 
If during the applicable restricted periods a stock split, stock dividend, or
other relevant change in capitalization of the Corporation occurs, the
administrative authority will make such adjustments in the number of units
credited to Grantee, or in the number and type of securities deliverable to
Grantee in settlement of such units and used in determining dividend equivalent
amounts, as the administrative authority may determine to be appropriate. Any
resulting new units or securities credited with respect to previously credited
units that are still restricted under this Agreement will be delivered to and
held by or on behalf of the Corporation and will be subject to the same
provisions, restrictions, and requirements as those previously credited units.  

12.     
    Limits on the Corporation s Obligations    . 
Notwithstanding anything else contained in this Agreement, under no
circumstances will the Corporation be required to credit any units or issue or
deliver any shares in settlement of units if doing so would violate any law or
listing requirement that the administrative authority determines to be
applicable.  

13.     
    Receipt or             Access              to              Program     . 
Grantee acknowledges receipt of or access to the full text of the Program.  

14.     
    Addresses for Communications    . 
To facilitate communications regarding this Agreement, Grantee agrees to notify
the Corporation promptly of changes in current mailing and email addresses.
Communications to the Corporation in connection with this Agreement should be
directed to the Incentive Processing Office, or to such other address as the
Corporation may designate by further notice to Grantee.

2   

15.     
    Transfer of Personal Data    . 
The administration of the Program and this Agreement, including any subsequent
ownership of shares, involve the collection, use, and transfer of personal data
about Grantee between and among the Corporation, selected subsidiaries and
other affiliates of the Corporation, and third-party service providers such as
Morgan Stanley and Computershare (the Corporation's transfer agent), as well as
various regulatory and tax authorities around the world. This data includes
Grantee's name, age, date of birth, contact information, work location,
employment status, tax status, social security number, salary, nationality, job
title, share ownership, and details of incentive awards granted, cancelled,
vested or unvested, and related information. By accepting this award, Grantee
authorizes such collection, use, and transfer of this data. Grantee may, at any
time and without charge, view such data and require necessary corrections to
it. Such data will at all times be held in accordance with applicable laws,
regulations, and agreements.   

16.     
    No Employment Contract or Entitlement to Other or
Future Awards.      This Agreement,
the Corporation's incentive programs, and Grantee's selection for incentive
awards do not imply or form a part of any contract or assurance of employment,
and they do not in any way limit or restrict the ability of Grantee's employer
to terminate Grantee's employment. Grantee acknowledges that the Corporation
maintains and administers its incentive programs entirely in its discretion and
that Grantee is not entitled to any other or future incentive awards of any
kind in addition to those that have already been granted.  

17.     
    Governing Law and Consent to Jurisdiction     . 
This Agreement and the Program are governed by the laws of the State of New
York without regard to any conflict of law rules. Any dispute arising out of or
relating to this Agreement or the Program may be resolved in any state or
federal court located within Dallas County, Texas, U.S.A. Grantee accepts that
venue and submits to the personal jurisdiction of any such court. Similarly,
the Corporation accepts such venue and submits to such jurisdiction.  

18.     
    Entire Agreement    . 
This Agreement constitutes the entire understanding between Grantee and the
Corporation with respect to the subject matter of this Agreement.  

3   

</EX-10.(III) (A3)>

<EX-10.(III) (B2)>
 5
 xomexhibit10iiib2.htm
 EARNINGS BONUS UNIT INSTRUMENT

EXHIBIT
10(iii)(b.2)   

EXXON MOBIL CORPORATION   

  EARNINGS BONUS UNIT AWARD  

Maximum  

Maximum  

Settlement  

Settlement  

EBU  

Number  

Value Per  

Value of  

Number   

Name of Grantee   

of EBUs   

EBU   

Award   

$6.50  

This    EARNINGS BONUS UNIT AWARD   
is granted in Dallas County, Texas by Exxon Mobil Corporation (the
 Corporation ) effective November 24, 2015 (the  date of
grant ), pursuant to the Short Term Incentive Program adopted by the Board
of Directors of the Corporation on October 27, 1993, as amended (the
 Program ). This award is subject to the provisions of this
instrument and the Program and to such regulations and requirements as may be
stipulated from time to time by the administrative authority defined in the
Program and is granted on the condition that Grantee accepts such provisions,
regulations, and requirements. This instrument incorporates by reference the
provisions of the Program, as it may be amended from time to time, including
without limitation the definitions of terms used in this instrument and defined
in the Program.  

  1.    Award   . The Corporation has
granted to Grantee the number of earnings bonus units ( EBUs ) set
forth above, with each EBU having the maximum settlement value set forth above.
Subject to the other terms of this award, Grantee has the right, for each of
these EBUs, to receive from the Corporation, promptly after the settlement date
defined below, an amount of cash equal to the Corporation's cumulative earnings
per common share (assuming dilution) as reflected in its quarterly earnings
statements as initially filed in its quarterly or annual reports with the U.S.
Securities and Exchange Commission commencing with earnings for the first full
quarter following the date of grant to and including the last full quarter preceding
the settlement date; provided, however, that the amount of such settlement will
not exceed the maximum settlement value specified above.  

  2.    Settlement Date   . The
settlement date of these EBUs will be the earlier of (i) the date of
publication of the Corporation's quarterly earnings statement for the twelfth
(12th) full quarter following the date of grant, or (ii) the date of
publication of the Corporation's quarterly earnings statement which brings the
cumulative earnings per common share (assuming dilution) as initially filed in
its quarterly or annual reports with the U.S. Securities and Exchange
Commission commencing with the first full quarter following the date of grant
to an amount at least equal to the maximum settlement value per EBU specified
above.  

  3.    Annulment   . This award is
provisional until the Corporation actually pays cash in settlement of the
award.  

  (a)      If, before the Corporation pays such cash, Grantee
terminates (other than by death) before standard retirement time within the
meaning of the Program, this award will automatically expire as of the date of
termination, except to the extent the administrative authority determines
Grantee may retain this award.  

  (b) If, before the Corporation pays such cash, Grantee is
determined to have engaged in detrimental activity within the meaning of the
Program, this award will automatically expire as of the date of such
determination.  

  (c) Provisional awards held by executive officers may also
be subject to cancellation to comply with applicable law or Corporation policy
including, without limitation, any clawback obligations determined to be owed
by Grantee to the Corporation in connection with this or other awards.  

4.    Adjustments   .
The number of EBUs covered by this award and the meaning of the term
 common share  will be adjusted by the administrative authority as it
deems appropriate to give effect to any stock split, stock dividend or other
relevant change in capitalization of the Corporation after the date of grant
and prior to the settlement date.  

  5.    Governing Law and Consent to
Jurisdiction   . This award and the Program are governed by the laws of the
State of New York without regard to any conflict of law rules. Any dispute
arising out of or relating to this award or the Program may be resolved in any
state or federal court located within Dallas County, Texas, U.S.A. This award
is issued on the condition that Grantee accepts such venue and submits to the
personal jurisdiction of any such court. Similarly, the Corporation accepts
such venue and submits to such jurisdiction.  

                                                                                         EXXON
MOBIL CORPORATION   

</EX-10.(III) (B2)>

<EX-10.(III) (F4)>
 6
 xomexhibit10iiif4.htm
 STANDING RESOLUTION FOR NON-EMPLOYEE DIRECTOR CASH FEES

EXHIBIT
10(iii).(f.4)     

Resolutions
of the Board of Directors    

   Regarding Cash Compensation of Non-employee Directors    

   October 26,
2011    

   RESOLVED, that, effective January 1,
2012, each member of the Board of Directors who is not an employee of the
Corporation or of any of its affiliated companies (a  non-employee director )
be compensated at the rate of $110,000 per annum, and that in addition,    

   (a) each non-employee
director designated as Chair of the Audit Committee, Chair of the Compensation
Committee, or as Presiding Director be compensated at the rate of $10,000 per
annum; and    

   (c) non-employee directors
receive no additional fees for serving on, or attending regular or special
meetings of, the Board or any committee of the Board, or for execution of written
consents to action in lieu of meetings of the Board or any such committee, but
be reimbursed for reasonable expenses if any; and that the resolutions
regarding non-employee director remuneration adopted by the Board of Directors
on October 28, 2009 be, and hereby are, revoked.    

</EX-10.(III) (F4)>

<EX-12>
 7
 xomexhibit12.htm
 COMPUTATION OF RATIO OF EARNINGS TO FIXED CHARGES

EXHIBIT 12    

</EX-12>

<EX-21>
 8
 xomexhibit21.htm
 SUBSIDIARIES OF THE REGISTRANT

EXHIBIT
21   

   Subsidiaries of the Registrant (1), (2) and (3)   at
December 31, 2015   

Percentage of  
    Voting Securities  
    Owned Directly  
    or Indirectly by  
    Registrant  

State or  
    Country of
  Organization  

Aera Energy LLC (5)  

48.2  

California  

AKG Marketing Company Limited   

87.5  

Bahamas  

Al-Jubail Petrochemical Company (4) (5)   

50  

Saudi Arabia  

Ampolex (CEPU) Pte Ltd  

100  

Singapore  

Ancon Insurance Company, Inc.   

100  

Vermont  

Barnett Gathering, LLC   

100  

Texas  

Barzan Gas Company Limited (5)   

7  

Qatar  

BEB Erdgas und Erdoel GmbH   Co. KG (4) (5)  

50   

Germany  

Cameroon Oil Transportation Company S.A. (5)   

41.06  

Cameroon  

Canada Imperial Oil Limited  

69.6  

Canada  

Caspian Pipeline Consortium (5)    

7.5  

Russia/Kazakhstan  

Cross Timbers Energy, LLC (4) (5)  

50   

Delaware  

Ellora Energy Inc.   

100   

Delaware  

Esso Australia Resources Pty Ltd   

100  

Australia  

Esso Deutschland GmbH   

100  

Germany  

Esso Erdgas Beteiligungsgesellschaft mbH   

100  

Germany  

Esso Exploration and Production Angola (Overseas)
  Limited  

100  

Bahamas  

Esso Exploration and Production Chad Inc.   

100  

Bahamas  

Esso Exploration and Production Nigeria (Deepwater)
  Limited  

100  

Nigeria  

Esso Exploration and Production Nigeria (Offshore
  East) Limited  

100  

Nigeria  

Esso Exploration and Production Nigeria Limited  

100  

Nigeria  

Esso Exploration and Production UK Limited   

100  

United Kingdom  

Esso Exploration Angola (Block 15) Limited  

100  

Bahamas  

Esso Exploration Angola (Block 17) Limited  

100  

Bahamas  

Esso Global Investments Ltd.  

100  

Bahamas  

Esso Italiana S.r.l.   

100   

Italy  

Esso Nederland B.V.   

100  

Netherlands  

Esso Norge AS    

100  

Norway  

Esso Petroleum Company, Limited   

100  

United Kingdom  

Esso Raffinage    

82.89  

France  

Esso Societe Anonyme Francaise   

82.89  

France  

Esso (Thailand) Public Company Limited    

65.99  

Thailand  

Exxon Azerbaijan Limited    

100  

Bahamas  

Exxon Chemical Arabia Inc.   

100  

Delaware  

Exxon Chemical Licensing LLC  

100  

Delaware  

Exxon International Finance Company  

100  

Delaware  

Exxon Mobile Bay Limited Partnership  

100  

Delaware  

Exxon Neftegas Limited    

100  

Bahamas  

Exxon Overseas Corporation   

100  

Delaware  

Exxon Overseas Investment Corporation   

100  

Delaware  

ExxonMobil (China) Investment Co., Ltd.  

100  

China  

1   

Percentage of  
    Voting
  Securities  
    Owned Directly  
    or Indirectly by  
    Registrant  

State or  
    Country of
  Organization  

ExxonMobil Abu Dhabi Offshore Petroleum Company
  Limited   

100  

Bahamas  

ExxonMobil Alaska Production Inc.    

100  

Delaware  

ExxonMobil Asia Pacific Pte. Ltd.    

100  

Singapore  

ExxonMobil Barzan Limited  

100  

Bahamas  

ExxonMobil Canada Ltd.    

100  

Canada  

ExxonMobil Canada Properties    

100  

Canada  

ExxonMobil Canada Resources Compa  ny    

100  

Canada  

ExxonMobil Capital Netherlands B.V.   

100  

Netherlands  

ExxonMobil Central Europe Holding GmbH   

100  

Germany  

ExxonMobil Cepu Limited  

100  

Bermuda  

ExxonMobil Chemical France     

100  

France  

ExxonMobil Chemical Limited    

100  

United Kingdom  

ExxonMobil Chemical Operations Private Limited  

100  

Singapore  

ExxonMobil Chemical Services (Shanghai) Co., Ltd.  

100  

China  

ExxonMobil China Petroleum   Petrochemical Company
  Limited  

100  

Bahamas  

ExxonMobil Development Company   

100  

Delaware  

ExxonMobil Exploration and Production Malaysia Inc.  

100  

Delaware  

ExxonMobil Exploration and Production Norway AS    

100  

Norway  

ExxonMobil Exploration and Production Romania Limited  

100  

Bahamas  

ExxonMobil Exploration and Production Tanzania Limited  

100  

Bahamas  

ExxonMobil Finance Company Limited   

100  

United Kingdom  

ExxonMobil Financial Services B.V.    

100  

Netherlands  

ExxonMobil Gas Marketing Europe Limited    

100  

United Kingdom  

ExxonMobil General Finance Company  

100  

Delaware  

ExxonMobil Global Services Company    

100  

Delaware  

ExxonMobil Holding Company Holland LLC    

100  

Delaware  

ExxonMobil Holding Norway AS  

100  

Norway  

ExxonMobil Hong Kong Limited    

100  

Hong Kong  

ExxonMobil International Finance Company    

100  

Delaware  

ExxonMobil International Services SARL  

100  

Luxembourg  

ExxonMobil Iraq Limited   

100  

Bahamas  

ExxonMobil Italiana Gas S.r.l.    

100   

Italy  

ExxonMobil Kazakhstan Inc.  

100  

Bahamas  

ExxonMobil Kazakhstan Ventures Inc.    

100  

Delaware  

ExxonMobil Lubricants Trading Company  

100  

Delaware  

ExxonMobil Oil Corporation    

100  

New York  

ExxonMobil Pensions-Verwaltungsgesellschaft mbH  

100  

Germany  

ExxonMobil Petroleum   Chemical BVBA  

100  

Belgium  

ExxonMobil Petroleum Finance Company  

100  

Delaware  

ExxonMobil Pipeline Company    

100  

Delaware  

ExxonMobil PNG Limited  

100  

Papua New Guinea  

ExxonMobil Producing Netherlands B.V.   

100  

Netherlands  

ExxonMobil Production Deutschland GmbH    

100  

Germany  

ExxonMobil Production Norway Inc.    

100  

Delaware  

ExxonMobil Qatargas Inc.    

100  

Delaware  

ExxonMobil Qatargas (II) Limited    

100  

Bahamas  

2   

Percentage of  
    Voting
  Securities  
    Owned Directly  
    or Indirectly by  
    Registrant  

State or  
    Country of Organization  

ExxonMobil Ras Laffan (III) Limited    

100  

Bahamas  

ExxonMobil Rasgas Inc.    

100  

Delaware  

ExxonMobil Research and Engineering Company  

100  

Delaware  

ExxonMobil Russia Kara Sea Holdings B.V.  

100  

Netherlands  

ExxonMobil Sales and Supply LLC    

100  

Delaware  

ExxonMobil Technology Finance Company    

100  

Delaware  

ExxonMobil Ventures Finance Company  

100  

Delaware  

ExxonMobil Ventures Funding Ltd.     

100  

Bahamas  

Fujian Refining   Petrochemical Co. Ltd. (5)    

25  

China  

Golden Pass LNG Terminal Investments LLC  

100  

Delaware  

Golden Pass LNG Terminal LLC (5)    

17.6  

Delaware  

Imperial Oil Limited    

69.6  

Canada  

Imperial Oil (an Ontario General Partnership)  

69.6  

Canada  

Imperial Oil Resources (an Alberta limited
  partnership)    

69.6  

Canada  

Imperial Oil Resources N.W.T. Limited    

69.6  

Canada  

Imperial Oil Resources Ventures Limited  

69.6  

Canada  

Infineum Holdings B.V. (4) (5)    

50  

Netherlands  

Infineum Italia s.r.l. (4) (5)  

50  

Italy  

Infineum USA L.P. (4) (5)   

50  

Delaware  

Karmorneftegaz Holding SARL (5)   

33.33  

Luxembourg  

Marine Well Containment Company LLC (5)  

10  

Delaware  

McColl-Frontenac Petroleum Inc.  

69.6  

Canada  

Mobil Africa Sales Inc.  

100  

Delaware  

Mobil Australia Resources Company Pty Limited   

100  

Australia  

Mobil California Exploration   Producing Asset
  Company   

100  

Delaware  

Mobil Caspian Pipeline Company    

100  

Delaware  

Mobil Cerro Negro, Ltd.    

100  

Bahamas  

Mobil Chemical Products International Inc.  

100  

Delaware  

Mobil Corporation    

100  

Delaware  

Mobil Equatorial Guinea Inc.    

100  

Delaware  

Mobil Erdgas-Erdoel GmbH    

100  

Germany  

Mobil Exploration Indonesia Inc.    

100  

Cayman Islands  

Mobil Oil Australia Pty Ltd   

100  

Australia  

Mobil Oil Exploration   Producing Southeast Inc.    

100  

Delaware  

Mobil Oil New Zealand Limited   

100  

New Zealand  

Mobil Producing Nigeria Unlimited    

100  

Nigeria  

Mobil Producing Texas   New Mexico Inc.  

100  

Delaware  

Mobil Yanbu Petrochemical Company Inc.    

100  

Delaware  

Mobil Yanbu Refining Company Inc.    

100  

Delaware  

Mountain Gathering, LLC    

100  

Delaware  

Nederlandse Aardolie Maatschappij B.V. (4) (5)    

50  

Netherlands  

Palmetto Transoceanic LLC   

100  

Delaware  

Papua New Guinea Liquefied Natural Gas Global Company
  LDC (5)   

33.2  

Bahamas  

Phillips Exploration, LLC   

100  

Delaware  

Qatar Liquefied Gas Company Limited (5)  

10  

Qatar  

Qatar Liquefied Gas Company Limited (2) (5)  

24.15  

Qatar  

3   

Percentage of  
    Voting
  Securities  
    Owned Directly  
    or Indirectly by  
    Registrant  

State or  
    Country of
  Organization  

Ras Laffan Liquefied Natural Gas Company Limited (5)   

24.999  

Qatar  

Ras Laffan Liquefied Natural Gas Company Limited (II)
  (5)    

30.517  

Qatar  

Ras Laffan Liquefied Natural Gas Company Limited (3)
  (5)  

30  

Qatar  

Saudi Aramco Mobil Refinery Company Ltd. (4) (5)    

50  

Saudi Arabia  

Saudi Yanbu Petrochemical Co. (4) (5)  

50  

Saudi Arabia  

SeaRiver Maritime, Inc.  

100  

Delaware  

South Hook LNG Terminal Company Limited (5)  

24.15  

United Kingdom  

Tengizchevroil, LLP (5)  

25  

Kazakhstan  

Terminale GNL Adriatico S.r.l (5)    

70.678   

Italy  

Trend Gathering   Treating, LLC  

100  

Texas  

Wolverine Pipe Line Company   

53.39  

Delaware  

XH, LLC   

100  

Delaware  

XTO Energy Canada  

84.80  

Canada  

XTO Energy Inc.    

100  

Delaware  

______________  

  NOTES:  

(1)  

For
  the purposes of this list, if the registrant owns directly or indirectly
  approximately 50 percent of the voting securities of any person and
  approximately 50 percent of the voting securities of such person is owned
  directly or indirectly by another interest, or if the registrant includes its
  share of net income of any other unconsolidated person in consolidated net
  income, such person is deemed to be a subsidiary.  

(2)  

With
  respect to certain companies, shares in names of nominees and qualifying
  shares in names of directors are included in the above percentages.  

(3)

The
  names of other subsidiaries have been omitted from the above list since
  considered in the aggregate, they would not constitute a significant
  subsidiary under Securities and Exchange Commission Regulation S-X, Rule
  1-02(w).  

(4)  

The
  registrant owns directly or indirectly approximately 50 percent of the
  securities of this person and approximately 50 percent of the voting
  securities of this person is owned directly or indirectly by another single
  interest.  

(5)  

The
  investment in this unconsolidated person is represented by the registrant's
  percentage interest in the underlying net assets of such person. The
  accounting for these unconsolidated persons is referred to as the equity
  method of accounting.  

4   

</EX-21>

<EX-23>
 9
 xomexhibit23.htm
 CONSENT OF PRICEWATERHOUSECOOPERS LLP, INDEPENDENT REGISTERED PUBLIC ACCOUNTING FIRM

EXHIBIT 23    

CONSENT OF
INDEPENDENT REGISTERED PUBLIC ACCOUNTING FIRM    

We hereby consent to the incorporation by reference in the
following   Exxon Mobil Corporation Registration
Statements on:    

Form S-3 (No. 333-167787)                   XTO Energy Inc. 2004
Stock Incentive Plan;   

Form S-3 (No. 333-194609)                   Exxon Mobil
Corporation Debt Securities;   

Form S-8 (Nos. 333-101175,                  1993 Incentive Program
of Exxon Mobil Corporation;   

                               333-38917,                          

                               33-51107,    

                       and 333-75659)                          

Form S-8 (Nos. 333-145188,                  2003 Incentive Program
of Exxon Mobil Corporation;   

                               333-110494,   

                            and   333-183012)   

Form S-8 (No. 333-166576)                   ExxonMobil Savings
Plan;   

Form S-8 (No. 333-117980)                   2004 Non-employee
Director Restricted Stock Plan;   

Form S-8 (No. 333-164620)                   Post-effective
amendment no. 1 on Form S-8 to Form S-4   

                                                                           relating
to XTO Energy Inc. 1998 Stock Incentive Plan and   

                                                                           2004
Incentive Plan   

of our report dated February 24, 2016, relating to the financial
statements and the effectiveness of internal control over financial reporting,
which appears in this Form 10-K.   

/s/ PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP   

Dallas, Texas   

   February 24, 2016   

</EX-23>

<EX-31.1>
 10
 xomexhibit311.htm
 CERTIFICATION (PURSUANT TO SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT RULE 13A-14(A)) BY CHIEF EXECUTIVE OFFICER

EXHIBIT 31.1   

Certification by Rex W. Tillerson   

   Pursuant to Securities Exchange Act Rule
13a-    14(a)    

I,
Rex W. Tillerson, certify that:  

1.           I have reviewed
this annual report on Form 10-K of Exxon Mobil Corporation;  

2.           Based on my
knowledge, this report does not contain any untrue statement of a material fact
or omit to state a material fact necessary to make the statements made, in
light of the circumstances under which such statements were made, not
misleading with respect to the period covered by this report;  

3.           Based on my
knowledge, the financial statements, and other financial information included
in this report, fairly present in all material respects the financial
condition, results of operations and cash flows of the registrant as of, and
for, the periods presented in this report;  

4.           The registrant s
other certifying officers and I are responsible for establishing and
maintaining disclosure controls and procedures (as defined in Exchange Act
Rules 13a-15(e) and 15d-15(e)) and internal control over financial reporting
(as defined in Exchange Act Rules 13a-15(f) and 15d-15(f)) for the registrant
and have:  

(a)         Designed such
disclosure controls and procedures, or caused such disclosure controls and
procedures to be designed under our supervision, to ensure that material
information relating to the registrant, including its consolidated
subsidiaries, is made known to us by others within those entities, particularly
during the period in which this report is being prepared;  

(b)      
  Designed
such internal control over financial reporting, or caused such internal control
over financial reporting to be designed under our supervision, to provide
reasonable assurance regarding the reliability of financial reporting and the
preparation of financial statements for external purposes in accordance with
generally accepted accounting principles;  

(c)         Evaluated the
effectiveness of the registrant's disclosure controls and procedures and
presented in this report our conclusions about the effectiveness of the
disclosure controls and procedures, as of the end of the period covered by this
report based on such evaluation; and  

(d)         Disclosed in
this report any change in the registrant's internal control over financial
reporting that occurred during the registrant's most recent fiscal quarter (the
registrant's fourth fiscal quarter in the case of an annual report) that has
materially affected, or is reasonably likely to materially affect, the
registrant's internal control over financial reporting; and  

5.           The registrant's
other certifying officers and I have disclosed, based on our most recent
evaluation of internal control over financial reporting, to the registrant's
auditors and the audit committee of the registrant's board of directors (or
persons performing the equivalent functions):  

(a)         All significant
deficiencies and material weaknesses in the design or operation of internal
control over financial reporting which are reasonably likely to adversely
affect the registrant's ability to record, process, summarize and report
financial information; and  

(b)         Any fraud,
whether or not material, that involves management or other employees who have a
significant role in the registrant's internal control over financial reporting.  

Date: February 24,
  2016    

/s/  REX W. TILLERSON  

Rex W. Tillerson  

Chief Executive Officer  

</EX-31.1>

<EX-31.2>
 11
 xomexhibit312.htm
 CERTIFICATION (PURSUANT TO SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT RULE 13A-14(A)) BY PRINCIPAL FINANCIAL OFFICER

EXHIBIT 31.2   

Certification by Andrew P. Swiger   

   Pursuant to Securities Exchange Act Rule
13a-    14(a)    

I,
Andrew P. Swiger, certify that:  

1.           I have reviewed
this annual report on Form 10-K of Exxon Mobil Corporation;  

2.           Based on my
knowledge, this report does not contain any untrue statement of a material fact
or omit to state a material fact necessary to make the statements made, in
light of the circumstances under which such statements were made, not
misleading with respect to the period covered by this report;  

3.           Based on my
knowledge, the financial statements, and other financial information included
in this report, fairly present in all material respects the financial
condition, results of operations and cash flows of the registrant as of, and
for, the periods presented in this report;  

4.           The registrant s
other certifying officers and I are responsible for establishing and
maintaining disclosure controls and procedures (as defined in Exchange Act
Rules 13a-15(e) and 15d-15(e)) and internal control over financial reporting
(as defined in Exchange Act Rules 13a-15(f) and 15d-15(f)) for the registrant
and have:  

(a)         Designed such
disclosure controls and procedures, or caused such disclosure controls and
procedures to be designed under our supervision, to ensure that material
information relating to the registrant, including its consolidated
subsidiaries, is made known to us by others within those entities, particularly
during the period in which this report is being prepared;  

(b)      
  Designed
such internal control over financial reporting, or caused such internal control
over financial reporting to be designed under our supervision, to provide
reasonable assurance regarding the reliability of financial reporting and the
preparation of financial statements for external purposes in accordance with
generally accepted accounting principles;  

(c)         Evaluated the
effectiveness of the registrant's disclosure controls and procedures and
presented in this report our conclusions about the effectiveness of the
disclosure controls and procedures, as of the end of the period covered by this
report based on such evaluation; and  

(d)         Disclosed in
this report any change in the registrant's internal control over financial
reporting that occurred during the registrant's most recent fiscal quarter (the
registrant's fourth fiscal quarter in the case of an annual report) that has
materially affected, or is reasonably likely to materially affect, the
registrant's internal control over financial reporting; and  

5.           The registrant's
other certifying officers and I have disclosed, based on our most recent
evaluation of internal control over financial reporting, to the registrant's
auditors and the audit committee of the registrant's board of directors (or
persons performing the equivalent functions):  

(a)         All significant
deficiencies and material weaknesses in the design or operation of internal
control over financial reporting which are reasonably likely to adversely
affect the registrant's ability to record, process, summarize and report
financial information; and  

(b)         Any fraud,
whether or not material, that involves management or other employees who have a
significant role in the registrant's internal control over financial reporting.  

Date: February
  24, 2016    

/s/ 
  ANDREW P. SWIGER  

Andrew P. Swiger   

Senior Vice President  

(Principal Financial Officer)  

</EX-31.2>

<EX-31.3>
 12
 xomexhibit313.htm
 CERTIFICATION (PURSUANT TO SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT RULE 13A-14(A)) BY PRINCIPAL ACCOUNTING OFFICER

EXHIBIT 31.3   

Certification by David S. Rosenthal   

   Pursuant to Securities Exchange Act Rule
13a-    14(a)    

I,
David S. Rosenthal, certify that:  

1.           I have reviewed
this annual report on Form 10-K of Exxon Mobil Corporation;  

2.           Based on my
knowledge, this report does not contain any untrue statement of a material fact
or omit to state a material fact necessary to make the statements made, in
light of the circumstances under which such statements were made, not
misleading with respect to the period covered by this report;   

3.           Based on my
knowledge, the financial statements, and other financial information included
in this report, fairly present in all material respects the financial
condition, results of operations and cash flows of the registrant as of, and
for, the periods presented in this report;   

4.           The registrant s
other certifying officers and I are responsible for establishing and
maintaining disclosure controls and procedures (as defined in Exchange Act
Rules 13a-15(e) and 15d-15(e)) and internal control over financial reporting
(as defined in Exchange Act Rules 13a-15(f) and 15d-15(f)) for the registrant
and have:   

(a)         Designed such
disclosure controls and procedures, or caused such disclosure controls and
procedures to be designed under our supervision, to ensure that material
information relating to the registrant, including its consolidated
subsidiaries, is made known to us by others within those entities, particularly
during the period in which this report is being prepared;  

(b)      
  Designed
such internal control over financial reporting, or caused such internal control
over financial reporting to be designed under our supervision, to provide
reasonable assurance regarding the reliability of financial reporting and the
preparation of financial statements for external purposes in accordance with
generally accepted accounting principles;  

(c)         Evaluated the
effectiveness of the registrant's disclosure controls and procedures and
presented in this report our conclusions about the effectiveness of the
disclosure controls and procedures, as of the end of the period covered by this
report based on such evaluation; and  

(d)         Disclosed in
this report any change in the registrant's internal control over financial
reporting that occurred during the registrant's most recent fiscal quarter (the
registrant's fourth fiscal quarter in the case of an annual report) that has
materially affected, or is reasonably likely to materially affect, the
registrant's internal control over financial reporting; and   

5.           The registrant's
other certifying officers and I have disclosed, based on our most recent
evaluation of internal control over financial reporting, to the registrant's
auditors and the audit committee of the registrant's board of directors (or
persons performing the equivalent functions):  

(a)         All significant
deficiencies and material weaknesses in the design or operation of internal
control over financial reporting which are reasonably likely to adversely
affect the registrant's ability to record, process, summarize and report
financial information; and  

(b)         Any fraud,
whether or not material, that involves management or other employees who have a
significant role in the registrant's internal control over financial reporting.  

Date: February 24,
  2016   

/s/  DAVID S. ROSENTHAL  

David S. Rosenthal  

Vice President and Controller  

(Principal Accounting Officer)  

</EX-31.3>

<EX-32.1>
 13
 xomexhibit321.htm
 SECTION 1350 CERTIFICATION (PURSUANT TO SARBANES-OXLEY SECTION 906) BY CHIEF EXECUTIVE OFFICER

EXHIBIT 32.1   

Certification of Periodic
Financial Report   

   Pursuant to 18 U.S.C.
Section 1350   

For purposes of 18 U.S.C. Section 1350, as adopted
pursuant to Section 906 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, the undersigned, Rex
W. Tillerson, the chief executive officer of Exxon Mobil Corporation (the
 Company ), hereby certifies that, to his knowledge:  

(i)        
  the Annual Report on Form 10-K of the Company for the year ended
December 31, 2015, as filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission on the
date hereof (the  Report ) fully complies with the requirements of section
13(a) or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934; and   

(ii)         the
information contained in the Report fairly presents, in all material respects,
the financial condition and results of operations of the Company.   

Date: February
  24, 2016  

/s/  REX W. TILLERSON  

Rex W. Tillerson  

Chief Executive Officer  

A signed original of this written statement required by Section
906 has been provided to Exxon Mobil Corporation and will be retained by Exxon
Mobil Corporation and furnished to the Securities and Exchange Commission or
its staff upon request.  

</EX-32.1>

<EX-32.2>
 14
 xomexhibit322.htm
 SECTION 1350 CERTIFICATION (PURSUANT TO SARBANES-OXLEY SECTION 906) BY PRINCIPAL FINANCIAL OFFICER

EXHIBIT 32.2   

Certification of Periodic
Financial Report   

   Pursuant to 18 U.S.C.
Section 1350   

For purposes of 18 U.S.C. Section 1350, as adopted
pursuant to Section 906 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, the undersigned,
Andrew P. Swiger, the principal financial officer of Exxon Mobil Corporation
(the  Company ), hereby certifies that, to his knowledge:   

(i)        
  the Annual Report on Form 10-K of the Company for the year ended
December 31, 2015, as filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission on the
date hereof (the  Report ) fully complies with the requirements of section
13(a) or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934; and   

(ii)         the
information contained in the Report fairly presents, in all material respects,
the financial condition and results of operations of the Company.   

Date: February 24,
  2016    

/s/  ANDREW P. SWIGER  

Andrew P. Swiger  

Senior Vice President  

(Principal Financial Officer)  

A signed original of this written statement required by Section
906 has been provided to Exxon Mobil Corporation and will be retained by Exxon
Mobil Corporation and furnished to the Securities and Exchange Commission or
its staff upon request.  

</EX-32.2>

<EX-32.3>
 15
 xomexhibit323.htm
 SECTION 1350 CERTIFICATION (PURSUANT TO SARBANES-OXLEY SECTION 906) BY PRINCIPAL ACCOUNTING OFFICER

EXHIBIT 32.3   

Certification of Periodic
Financial Report   

   Pursuant to 18 U.S.C.
Section 1350   

For purposes of 18
U.S.C. Section 1350, as adopted pursuant to Section 906 of the Sarbanes-Oxley
Act of 2002, the undersigned, David S. Rosenthal, the principal accounting
officer of Exxon Mobil Corporation (the  Company ), hereby certifies that, to
his knowledge:   

(i)        
  the Annual Report on Form 10-K of the Company for the year ended
December 31, 2015, as filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission on the
date hereof (the  Report ) fully complies with the requirements of section
13(a) or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934; and   

(ii)         the
information contained in the Report fairly presents, in all material respects,
the financial condition and results of operations of the Company.   

Date: February 24,
  2016    

/s/ 
  DAVID S. ROSENTHAL  

David S. Rosenthal  

Vice President and Controller  

(Principal Accounting Officer)  

A signed original of this written statement required by Section
906 has been provided to Exxon Mobil Corporation and will be retained by Exxon
Mobil Corporation and furnished to the Securities and Exchange Commission or
its staff upon request.  

</EX-32.3>

<EX-101.INS>
 22
 xom-20151231.xml
 XBRL INSTANCE DOCUMENT

</EX-101.INS>

<EX-101.SCH>
 23
 xom-20151231.xsd
 XBRL TAXONOMY EXTENSION SCHEMA

</EX-101.SCH>

<EX-101.CAL>
 24
 xom-20151231_cal.xml
 XBRL TAXONOMY EXTENSION CALCULATION LINKBASE

</EX-101.CAL>

<EX-101.DEF>
 25
 xom-20151231_def.xml
 XBRL TAXONOMY EXTENSION DEFINITION LINKBASE

</EX-101.DEF>

<EX-101.LAB>
 26
 xom-20151231_lab.xml
 XBRL TAXONOMY EXTENSION LABEL LINKBASE

</EX-101.LAB>

<EX-101.PRE>
 27
 xom-20151231_pre.xml
 XBRL TAXONOMY EXTENSION PRESENTATION LINKBASE

</EX-101.PRE>

