<Header>
<FileStats>
    <FileName>20180228_10-K_edgar_data_34088_0000034088-18-000015_1.txt</FileName>
    <GrossFileSize>23712262</GrossFileSize>
    <NetFileSize>404200</NetFileSize>
    <NonText_DocumentType_Chars>842338</NonText_DocumentType_Chars>
    <HTML_Chars>9548150</HTML_Chars>
    <XBRL_Chars>8300887</XBRL_Chars>
    <XML_Chars>2172116</XML_Chars>
    <N_Tables>103</N_Tables>
    <N_Exhibits>20</N_Exhibits>
</FileStats>
<SEC-Header>
0000034088-18-000015.hdr.sgml : 20180228
<ACCEPTANCE-DATETIME>20180228163951
ACCESSION NUMBER:		0000034088-18-000015
CONFORMED SUBMISSION TYPE:	10-K
PUBLIC DOCUMENT COUNT:		135
CONFORMED PERIOD OF REPORT:	20171231
FILED AS OF DATE:		20180228
DATE AS OF CHANGE:		20180228

FILER:

	COMPANY DATA:	
		COMPANY CONFORMED NAME:			EXXON MOBIL CORP
		CENTRAL INDEX KEY:			0000034088
		STANDARD INDUSTRIAL CLASSIFICATION:	PETROLEUM REFINING [2911]
		IRS NUMBER:				135409005
		STATE OF INCORPORATION:			NJ
		FISCAL YEAR END:			1231

	FILING VALUES:
		FORM TYPE:		10-K
		SEC ACT:		1934 Act
		SEC FILE NUMBER:	001-02256
		FILM NUMBER:		18651779

	BUSINESS ADDRESS:	
		STREET 1:		5959 LAS COLINAS BLVD
		CITY:			IRVING
		STATE:			TX
		ZIP:			75039-2298
		BUSINESS PHONE:		9729406000

	MAIL ADDRESS:	
		STREET 1:		5959 LAS COLINAS BLVD
		CITY:			IRVING
		STATE:			TX
		ZIP:			75039-2298

	FORMER COMPANY:	
		FORMER CONFORMED NAME:	EXXON CORP
		DATE OF NAME CHANGE:	19920703

	FORMER COMPANY:	
		FORMER CONFORMED NAME:	STANDARD OIL CO OF NEW JERSEY
		DATE OF NAME CHANGE:	19721123

</SEC-Header>
</Header>

 0000034088-18-000015.txt : 20180228

10-K
 1
 xom10k2017.htm
 FORM 10-K

2017    

UNITED STATES   

   SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION    

   WASHINGTON,
 D.C. 20549    

FORM 10-K    

            ANNUAL
REPORT PURSUANT TO SECTION 13 OR 15(d) OF    

   THE
SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934    

  For the fiscal year
ended December 31, 2017   

  or   

            TRANSITION
REPORT PURSUANT TO SECTION 13 OR 15(d) OF    

   THE
SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934    

  For the transition period from
              
to

Commission File Number 1-2256   

   EXXON MOBIL CORPORATION    

  (Exact name of registrant as specified in its charter)   

NEW JERSEY   

13-5409005   

(State or other jurisdiction of  
    incorporation or organization)  

(I.R.S. Employer  
    Identification Number)  

5959 LAS COLINAS BOULEVARD, IRVING, TEXAS 75039-2298    

  (Address of principal executive offices) (Zip Code)   

   (972) 940-6000    

  (Registrant s telephone number, including area code)   

Securities registered pursuant to Section 12(b) of the
Act:   

Indicate by check mark if the registrant is a
well-known seasoned issuer, as defined in Rule 405 of the Securities
Act.    Yes              No         

  Indicate by check mark if the registrant is not
required to file reports pursuant to Section 13 or Section 15(d) of the
Act.    Yes            No             

  Indicate by check mark whether the registrant (1) has
filed all reports required to be filed by Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities
Exchange Act of 1934 during the preceding 12 months (or for such shorter period
that the registrant was required to file such reports), and (2) has been
subject to such filing requirements for the past 90 days.    Yes  
           No             

  Indicate by check mark whether the registrant has
submitted electronically and posted on its corporate Web site, if any, every
Interactive Data File required to be submitted and posted pursuant to Rule 405
of Regulation S-T during the preceding 12 months (or for such shorter period
that the registrant was required to submit and post such
files).    Yes              No         

  Indicate by check mark if disclosure of delinquent
filers pursuant to Item 405 of Regulation S-K is not contained herein, and will
not be contained, to the best of registrant s knowledge, in definitive proxy or
information statements incorporated by reference in Part III of this
Form 10-K or any amendment to this Form 10-K.             

  Indicate by check
mark whether the registrant is a large accelerated filer, an accelerated filer,
a non-accelerated filer, a smaller reporting company, or emerging growth
company.  See the definitions of  large accelerated filer, 
 accelerated filer,   smaller reporting company,  and
 emerging growth company  in Rule 12b-2 of the Exchange Act.  

Large accelerated
  filer  

Accelerated filer  

Non-accelerated filer  

Smaller reporting
  company  

Emerging growth
  company  

If an emerging
growth company, indicate by check mark if the registrant has elected not to use
the extended transition period for complying with any new or revised financial
accounting standards provided pursuant to Section 13(a) of the Exchange Act.          

  Indicate by check mark whether the registrant is a
shell company (as defined by Rule 12b-2 of the
Act).    Yes             No             

  The aggregate market value of the voting stock held by
non-affiliates of the registrant on June 30, 2017, the last business day
of the registrant s most recently completed second fiscal quarter, based on the
closing price on that date of $80.73 on the New York Stock Exchange composite
tape, was in excess of $342 billion.   

   Documents Incorporated by Reference:  Proxy
Statement for the 2018 Annual Meeting of Shareholders (Part III)    

EXXON
MOBIL CORPORATION    

   FORM
10-K    

   FOR
THE FISCAL YEAR ENDED DECEMBER 31, 2017    

   TABLE OF CONTENTS    

PART I   

Item 1.  

Business  

1    

Item 1A.  

Risk Factors  

2    

Item 1B.  

Unresolved Staff Comments  

4    

Item 2.  

Properties  

5    

Item 3.  

Legal Proceedings  

26    

Item 4.  

Mine Safety Disclosures  

26    

Executive Officers of the Registrant [pursuant to
  Instruction 3 to Regulation S-K, Item 401(b)]  

27    

PART II   

Item 5.  

Market for Registrant s Common Equity, Related
  Stockholder Matters and Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities  

30    

Item 6.  

Selected Financial Data  

30    

Item 7.  

Management s Discussion and Analysis of Financial
  Condition and Results of Operations  

30    

Item 7A.  

Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About
  Market Risk  

31    

Item 8.  

Financial Statements and Supplementary Data  

31    

Item 9.  

Changes in and Disagreements With Accountants on
  Accounting and Financial Disclosure  

31    

Item 9A.  

Controls and Procedures  

31    

Item 9B.  

Other Information  

31    

PART III   

Item 10.  

Directors, Executive Officers and Corporate
  Governance  

32     

Item 11.  

Executive Compensation  

32     

Item 12.  

Security Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owners and
  Management and Related Stockholder Matters  

32     

Item 13.  

Certain Relationships and Related Transactions, and
  Director Independence  

33     

Item 14.  

Principal Accounting Fees and Services  

33     

PART IV   

Item 15.  

Exhibits, Financial Statement Schedules  

33     

Item 16.  

Form 10-K Summary  

33     

Financial Section  

34     

Index to Exhibits  

120     

Signatures  

121     

Exhibit 12   Computation of Ratio of Earnings to
  Fixed Charges  

Exhibit 18   Preferability Letter  

Exhibits 31 and 32   Certifications  

PART I    

    ITEM 1.       BUSINESS     

   Exxon Mobil Corporation was incorporated in the State of
New Jersey in 1882. Divisions and affiliated companies of ExxonMobil operate or
market products in the United States and most other countries of the world.
Their principal business is energy, involving exploration for, and production
of, crude oil and natural gas, manufacture of petroleum products and
transportation and sale of crude oil, natural gas and petroleum products.
ExxonMobil is a major manufacturer and marketer of commodity petrochemicals,
including olefins, aromatics, polyethylene and polypropylene plastics and a
wide variety of specialty products. Affiliates of ExxonMobil conduct extensive
research programs in support of these businesses.    

   Exxon Mobil Corporation has several divisions and hundreds
of affiliates, many with names that include    ExxonMobil   ,    Exxon   ,    Esso,
Mobil    or    XTO   . For convenience and simplicity, in this report the
terms    ExxonMobil, Exxon, Esso, Mobil    and    XTO   , as well as terms
like    Corporation   ,    Company   ,    our   ,    we     and    its   ,
are sometimes used as abbreviated references to specific affiliates or groups
of affiliates. The precise meaning depends on the context in question.    

   The energy and petrochemical industries are highly
competitive. There is competition within the industries and also with other
industries in supplying the energy, fuel and chemical needs of both industrial
and individual consumers. The Corporation competes with other firms in the sale
or purchase of needed goods and services in many national and international
markets and employs all methods of competition which are lawful and appropriate
for such purposes.    

   Operating data and industry segment information for the
Corporation are contained in the Financial Section of this report under the
following:  Quarterly Information ,  Note 18: Disclosures about Segments
and Related Information  and  Operating Information . Information on oil and
gas reserves is contained in the  Oil and Gas Reserves  part of the  Supplemental
Information on Oil and Gas Exploration and Production Activities  portion of
the Financial Section of this report.   

   ExxonMobil has a long standing commitment to the
development of proprietary technology. We have a wide array of research
programs designed to meet the needs identified in each of our business segments.
Information on Company sponsored research and development spending is
contained in  Note 3: Miscellaneous Financial Information  of the
Financial Section of this report. ExxonMobil held over 12 thousand active
patents worldwide at the end of 2017. For technology licensed to third parties,
revenues totaled approximately $89 million in 2017. Although technology is
an important contributor to the overall operations and results of our Company,
the profitability of each business segment is not dependent on any individual
patent, trade secret, trademark, license, franchise or concession.   

   The number of regular employees was 69.6 thousand,
71.1 thousand, and 73.5 thousand at years ended 2017, 2016 and 2015,
respectively. Regular employees are defined as active executive, management,
professional, technical and wage employees who work full time or part time for
the Corporation and are covered by the Corporation s benefit plans and
programs. Regular employees do not include employees of the company operated
retail sites (CORS). The number of CORS employees was 1.6 thousand,
1.6 thousand, and 2.1 thousand at years ended 2017, 2016 and 2015,
respectively.   

   Throughout ExxonMobil s businesses, new and ongoing
measures are taken to prevent and minimize the impact of our operations on
air, water and ground. These include a significant investment in refining
infrastructure and technology to manufacture clean fuels, as well
as projects to monitor and reduce nitrogen oxide, sulfur oxide and
greenhouse gas emissions, and expenditures for asset retirement obligations.
Using definitions and guidelines established by the American Petroleum
Institute, ExxonMobil s 2017 worldwide environmental expenditures for all such
preventative and remediation steps, including ExxonMobil s share of equity
company expenditures, were $4.7 billion, of which $3.3 billion were
included in expenses with the remainder in capital expenditures. The total cost
for such activities is expected to increase to approximately $5 billion in
2018 and 2019. Capital expenditures are expected to account for approximately
30 percent of the total.    

   Information concerning the source and availability of raw
materials used in the Corporation s business, the extent of seasonality in the
business, the possibility of renegotiation of profits or termination of
contracts at the election of governments and risks attendant to foreign operations
may be found in  Item 1A. Risk Factors  and  Item 2. Properties  in this
report.    

   ExxonMobil maintains a website at exxonmobil.com. Our
annual report on Form 10-K, quarterly reports on Form 10-Q, current
reports on Form 8-K and any amendments to those reports filed or furnished
pursuant to Section 13(a) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 are made
available through our website as soon as reasonably practical after we
electronically file or furnish the reports to the Securities and Exchange
Commission (SEC). Also available on the Corporation s website are the Company s
Corporate Governance Guidelines and Code of Ethics and Business Conduct, as
well as the charters of the audit, compensation and nominating committees of
the Board of Directors. Information on our website is not incorporated into
this report.   

1       

ITEM 1A.       RISK FACTORS

    ExxonMobil s financial and operating
results are subject to a variety of risks inherent in the global oil, gas, and
petrochemical businesses. Many of these risk factors are not within the
Company s control and could adversely affect our business, our financial and
operating results, or our financial condition. These risk factors include:   

Supply and Demand    

  The oil, gas, and petrochemical businesses are
fundamentally commodity businesses. This means ExxonMobil s operations and
earnings may be significantly affected by changes in oil, gas, and
petrochemical prices and by changes in margins on refined products. Oil, gas,
petrochemical, and product prices and margins in turn depend on local, regional,
and global events or conditions that affect supply and demand for the relevant
commodity. Any material decline in oil or natural gas prices could have a
material adverse effect on certain of the Company s operations, especially in
the Upstream segment, financial condition, and proved reserves. On the other
hand, a material increase in oil or natural gas prices could have a material
adverse effect on certain of the Company s operations, especially in the
Downstream and Chemical segments.  

   Economic conditions.    The demand for energy and petrochemicals is generally linked closely
with broad-based economic activities and levels of prosperity. The occurrence
of recessions or other periods of low or negative economic growth will
typically have a direct adverse impact on our results. Other factors that
affect general economic conditions in the world or in a major region, such as
changes in population growth rates, periods of civil unrest, government
austerity programs, or currency exchange rate fluctuations, can also impact the
demand for energy and petrochemicals. Sovereign debt downgrades, defaults,
inability to access debt markets due to credit or legal constraints, liquidity
crises, the breakup or restructuring of fiscal, monetary, or political systems
such as the European Union, and other events or conditions that impair the
functioning of financial markets and institutions also pose risks to
ExxonMobil, including risks to the safety of our financial assets and to the
ability of our partners and customers to fulfill their commitments to
ExxonMobil.   

   Other demand-related factors.    Other factors that may affect the demand for oil, gas,
and petrochemicals, and therefore impact our results, include technological
improvements in energy efficiency; seasonal weather patterns, which affect the
demand for energy associated with heating and cooling; increased
competitiveness of alternative energy sources that have so far generally not
been competitive with oil and gas without the benefit of government subsidies
or mandates; changes in technology or consumer preferences that alter fuel
choices, such as technological advances in energy storage that make wind and
solar more competitive for power generation or increased consumer demand for alternative
fueled or electric vehicles; and broad-based changes in personal income levels.

Other supply-related factors.    Commodity prices and margins also vary depending on a
number of factors affecting supply. For example, increased supply from the
development of new oil and gas supply sources and technologies to enhance
recovery from existing sources tend to reduce commodity prices to the extent
such supply increases are not offset by commensurate growth in demand.
Similarly, increases in industry refining or petrochemical manufacturing
capacity relative to demand tend to reduce margins on the affected products.
World oil, gas, and petrochemical supply levels can also be affected by factors
that reduce available supplies, such as adherence by member countries to OPEC
production quotas and the occurrence of wars, hostile actions, natural
disasters, disruptions in competitors  operations, or unexpected unavailability
of distribution channels that may disrupt supplies. Technological change can
also alter the relative costs for competitors to find, produce, and refine oil
and gas and to manufacture petrochemicals.   

   Other market factors.    ExxonMobil s business results are also exposed to
potential negative impacts due to changes in interest rates, inflation,
currency exchange rates, and other local or regional market conditions.   

Government and Political Factors    

  ExxonMobil s results can be adversely affected by
political or regulatory developments affecting our operations.   

   Access limitations.    A number of countries limit access to their oil and gas resources, or
may place resources off-limits from development altogether. Restrictions on
foreign investment in the oil and gas sector tend to increase in times of high
commodity prices, when national governments may have less need of outside
sources of private capital. Many countries also restrict the import or export
of certain products based on point of origin.   

   Restrictions on doing business.    ExxonMobil is subject to laws and sanctions imposed
by the United States or by other jurisdictions where we do business that may
prohibit ExxonMobil or certain of its affiliates from doing business in certain
countries, or restricting the kind of business that may be conducted. Such
restrictions may provide a competitive advantage to competitors who may not be
subject to comparable restrictions.   

   Lack of legal certainty.    Some countries in which we do business lack
well-developed legal systems, or have not yet adopted, or may be unable to
maintain, clear regulatory frameworks for oil and gas development. Lack of
legal certainty exposes our operations to increased risk of adverse or
unpredictable actions by government officials, and also makes it more difficult
for us to enforce our contracts. In some cases these risks can be partially
offset by agreements to arbitrate disputes in an international forum, but the
adequacy of this remedy may still depend on the local legal system to enforce
an award.   

2       

Regulatory and litigation risks.    Even in countries with well-developed legal
systems where ExxonMobil does business, we remain exposed to changes in law
(including changes that result from international treaties and accords) that
could adversely affect our results, such as:   

increases in taxes, duties, or government royalty
  rates (including retroactive claims);  

price controls;  

changes in environmental regulations or other laws
  that increase our cost of compliance or reduce or delay available business
  opportunities (including changes in laws related to offshore drilling
  operations, water use, methane emissions, or hydraulic fracturing);  

adoption of regulations mandating efficiency
  standards, the use of alternative fuels or uncompetitive fuel components;  

adoption of government payment transparency
  regulations that could require us to disclose competitively sensitive
  commercial information, or that could cause us to violate the non-disclosure
  laws of other countries; and  

government actions to cancel contracts,
  re-denominate the official currency, renounce or default on obligations,
  renegotiate terms unilaterally, or expropriate assets.  

Legal remedies available to compensate us for
expropriation or other takings may be inadequate.   

  We also may be adversely affected by the outcome of
litigation, especially in countries such as the United States in which very
large and unpredictable punitive damage awards may occur, or by government
enforcement proceedings alleging non-compliance with applicable laws or
regulations.   

   Security concerns.    Successful operation of particular facilities or projects may be
disrupted by civil unrest, acts of sabotage or terrorism, cybersecurity
attacks, and other local security concerns. Such concerns may require us to
incur greater costs for security or to shut down operations for a period of
time.   

   Climate change and greenhouse gas restrictions.    Due to concern over the risks of climate change, a
number of countries have adopted, or are considering the adoption of,
regulatory frameworks to reduce greenhouse gas emissions. These include
adoption of cap and trade regimes, carbon taxes, restrictive permitting,
increased efficiency standards, and incentives or mandates for renewable
energy. These requirements could make our products more expensive, lengthen
project implementation times, and reduce demand for hydrocarbons, as well as
shift hydrocarbon demand toward relatively lower-carbon sources such as natural
gas. Current and pending greenhouse gas regulations or policies may also
increase our compliance costs, such as for monitoring or sequestering
emissions.   

   Government sponsorship of alternative energy.    Many governments are providing tax advantages and
other subsidies to support alternative energy sources or are mandating the use
of specific fuels or technologies. Governments and others are also promoting
research into new technologies to reduce the cost and increase the scalability
of alternative energy sources. We are conducting our own research both in-house
and by working with more than 80 leading universities around the world,
including the Massachusetts Institute of Technology, Princeton University, the
University of Texas, and Stanford University. Our research projects focus on
developing algae-based biofuels, carbon capture and storage, breakthrough
energy efficiency processes, advanced energy-saving materials, and other
technologies. For example, ExxonMobil is working with Fuel Cell Energy Inc. to
explore using carbonate fuel cells to economically capture CO 2 
emissions from gas-fired power plants. Our future results may depend in part on
the success of our research efforts and on our ability to adapt and apply the
strengths of our current business model to providing the energy products of the
future in a cost-competitive manner. See  Operational and Other Factors  below.

Operational and Other Factors   

  In addition to external economic and political
factors, our future business results also depend on our ability to manage
successfully those factors that are at least in part within our control. The
extent to which we manage these factors will impact our performance relative to
competition. For projects in which we are not the operator, we depend on the
management effectiveness of one or more co-venturers whom we do not control.   

   Exploration and development program.    Our ability to maintain and grow our oil and gas
production depends on the success of our exploration and development efforts.
Among other factors, we must continuously improve our ability to identify the
most promising resource prospects and apply our project management expertise to
bring discovered resources on line as scheduled and within budget.   

   Project and portfolio management.    The long-term success of ExxonMobil s Upstream,
Downstream, and Chemical businesses depends on complex, long term,
capital intensive projects. These projects in turn require a high degree of
project management expertise to maximize efficiency. Specific factors that can
affect the performance of major projects include our ability to: negotiate
successfully with joint venturers, partners, governments, suppliers, customers,
or others; model and optimize reservoir performance; develop markets for
project outputs, whether through long-term contracts or the development of
effective spot markets; manage changes in operating conditions and costs,
including costs of third party equipment or services such as drilling rigs and
shipping; prevent, to the extent possible, and respond effectively to
unforeseen technical difficulties that could delay project startup or cause
unscheduled project downtime; and influence the performance of project
operators where ExxonMobil does not perform that role. In addition to the
effective management of individual projects, ExxonMobil s success, including
our ability to mitigate risk and

3       

provide attractive returns
to shareholders, depends on our ability to successfully manage our overall portfolio,
including diversification among types and locations of our projects.   

  The term  project  as used in this report can refer to
a variety of different activities and does not necessarily have the same
meaning as in any government payment transparency reports.   

   Operational efficiency.    An important component of ExxonMobil s competitive
performance, especially given the commodity based nature of many of our
businesses, is our ability to operate efficiently, including our ability to
manage expenses and improve production yields on an ongoing basis. This
requires continuous management focus, including technology improvements, cost
control, productivity enhancements, regular reappraisal of our asset portfolio,
and the recruitment, development, and retention of high caliber employees.   

   Research and development.    To maintain our competitive position, especially in
light of the technological nature of our businesses and the need for continuous
efficiency improvement, ExxonMobil s research and development organizations
must be successful and able to adapt to a changing market and policy
environment, including developing technologies to help reduce greenhouse gas
emissions.   

   Safety, business controls, and environmental risk
management.    Our results depend on
management s ability to minimize the inherent risks of oil, gas, and
petrochemical operations, to control effectively our business activities, and
to minimize the potential for human error. We apply rigorous management systems
and continuous focus to workplace safety and to avoiding spills or other
adverse environmental events. For example, we work to minimize spills through a
combined program of effective operations integrity management, ongoing
upgrades, key equipment replacements, and comprehensive inspection and
surveillance. Similarly, we are implementing cost-effective new technologies
and adopting new operating practices to reduce air emissions, not only in
response to government requirements but also to address community priorities.
We also maintain a disciplined framework of internal controls and apply a
controls management system for monitoring compliance with this framework.
Substantial liabilities and other adverse impacts could result if our
management systems and controls do not function as intended.  

   Cybersecurity.   
ExxonMobil is regularly subject to attempted cybersecurity disruptions from a
variety of threat actors. If our systems for protecting against cybersecurity
disruptions prove to be insufficient, ExxonMobil as well as our customers,
employees, or third parties could be adversely affected. Such cybersecurity
disruptions could cause physical harm to people or the environment; damage or
destroy assets; compromise business systems; result in proprietary information
being altered, lost, or stolen; result in employee, customer, or third-party
information being compromised; or otherwise disrupt our business operations. We
could incur significant costs to remedy the effects of such a cybersecurity
disruption as well as in connection with resulting regulatory actions and
litigation.   

   Preparedness.   
Our operations may be disrupted by severe weather events, natural disasters,
human error, and similar events. For example, hurricanes may damage our
offshore production facilities or coastal refining and petrochemical plants in
vulnerable areas. Our facilities are designed, constructed, and operated to
withstand a variety of extreme climatic and other conditions, with safety
factors built in to cover a number of engineering uncertainties, including
those associated with wave, wind, and current intensity, marine ice flow
patterns, permafrost stability, storm surge magnitude, temperature extremes,
extreme rain fall events, and earthquakes. Our consideration of changing
weather conditions and inclusion of safety factors in design covers the
engineering uncertainties that climate change and other events may potentially
introduce. Our ability to mitigate the adverse impacts of these events depends
in part upon the effectiveness of our robust facility engineering as well as
our rigorous disaster preparedness and response and business continuity
planning.   

   Insurance limitations.    The ability of the Corporation to insure against many
of the risks it faces as described in this Item 1A is limited by the capacity
of the applicable insurance markets, which may not be sufficient.  

   Competition.   
As noted in Item 1 above, the energy and petrochemical industries are highly
competitive. We face competition not only from other private firms, but also
from state-owned companies that are increasingly competing for opportunities
outside of their home countries. In some cases, these state-owned companies may
pursue opportunities in furtherance of strategic objectives of their government
owners, with less focus on financial returns than companies owned by private
shareholders, such as ExxonMobil. Technology and expertise provided by industry
service companies may also enhance the competitiveness of firms that may not
have the internal resources and capabilities of ExxonMobil.  

   Reputation.   
Our reputation is an important corporate asset. An operating incident,
significant cybersecurity disruption, or other adverse event such as those
described in this Item 1A may have a negative impact on our reputation, which
in turn could make it more difficult for us to compete successfully for new
opportunities, obtain necessary regulatory approvals, or could reduce consumer
demand for our branded products.  

  Projections, estimates, and descriptions of
ExxonMobil s plans and objectives included or incorporated in Items 1, 1A, 2, 7
and 7A of this report are forward-looking statements. Actual future results,
including project completion dates, production rates, capital expenditures, costs,
and business plans could differ materially due to, among other things, the
factors discussed above and elsewhere in this report.   

    ITEM 1B.                  UNRESOLVED
STAFF COMMENTS    

   None.    

4       

Item 2.       Properties   

    Information with regard to oil and gas
producing activities follows:     

1. Disclosure of Reserves     

    A. Summary of Oil and Gas Reserves at
Year-End 2017     

   The table below summarizes the oil-equivalent proved
reserves in each geographic area and by product type for consolidated
subsidiaries and equity companies. Gas is converted to an oil-equivalent basis
at six million cubic feet per one thousand barrels. The Corporation has
reported proved reserves on the basis of the average of the
first-day-of-the-month price for each month during the last 12-month period. No
major discovery or other favorable or adverse event has occurred since December
31, 2017, that would cause a significant change in the estimated proved
reserves as of that date.   

(1)   Other Americas includes proved
developed reserves of 2 million barrels of crude oil and 42 billion cubic feet
of natural gas, as well as proved undeveloped reserves of 150 million barrels
of crude oil and 175 billion cubic feet of natural gas.     

5       

In the preceding reserves information,
consolidated subsidiary and equity company reserves are reported separately.
However, the Corporation operates its business with the same view of equity
company reserves as it has for reserves from consolidated subsidiaries.    

   The Corporation anticipates several projects will come
online over the next few years providing additional production capacity.
However, actual volumes will vary from year to year due to the timing of
individual project start-ups; operational outages; reservoir performance;
performance of enhanced oil recovery projects; regulatory changes; the impact
of fiscal and commercial terms; asset sales; weather events; price effects on
production sharing contracts; changes in the amount and timing of capital
investments that may vary depending on the oil and gas price environment; and
other factors described in Item 1A. Risk Factors.    

   The estimation of proved reserves, which is based on the
requirement of reasonable certainty, is an ongoing process based on rigorous
technical evaluations, commercial and market assessments and detailed analysis
of well and reservoir information such as flow rates and reservoir pressures.
Furthermore, the Corporation only records proved reserves for projects which
have received significant funding commitments by management made toward the
development of the reserves. Although the Corporation is reasonably certain
that proved reserves will be produced, the timing and amount recovered can be
affected by a number of factors including completion of development projects,
reservoir performance, regulatory approvals, government policies, consumer
preferences, and significant changes in long-term oil and natural gas price
levels. In addition, proved reserves could be affected by an extended period of
low prices which could reduce the level of the Corporation s capital spending
and also impact our partners  capacity to fund their share of joint projects.   

    B. Technologies Used in
Establishing Proved Reserves Additions in 2017     

   Additions to ExxonMobil s proved reserves in 2017 were
based on estimates generated through the integration of available and
appropriate geological, engineering and production data, utilizing
well-established technologies that have been demonstrated in the field to yield
repeatable and consistent results.    

   Data used in these integrated assessments included
information obtained directly from the subsurface via wellbores, such as well
logs, reservoir core samples, fluid samples, static and dynamic pressure
information, production test data, and surveillance and performance
information. The data utilized also included subsurface information obtained
through indirect measurements including high-quality 3-D and 4-D seismic data,
calibrated with available well control information. The tools used to interpret
the data included proprietary seismic processing software, proprietary
reservoir modeling and simulation software, and commercially available data
analysis packages.    

   In some circumstances, where appropriate analog reservoirs
were available, reservoir parameters from these analogs were used to increase
the quality of and confidence in the reserves estimates.    

    C. Qualifications of
Reserves Technical Oversight Group and Internal Controls over Proved Reserves     

   ExxonMobil has a dedicated Global Reserves group that
provides technical oversight and is separate from the operating organization.
Primary responsibilities of this group include oversight of the reserves
estimation process for compliance with Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC)
rules and regulations, review of annual changes in reserves estimates, and the
reporting of ExxonMobil s proved reserves. This group also maintains the
official company reserves estimates for ExxonMobil s proved reserves of crude
oil, natural gas liquids, bitumen, synthetic oil, and natural gas. In addition,
the group provides training to personnel involved in the reserves estimation
and reporting process within ExxonMobil and its affiliates. The Manager of the
Global Reserves group has more than 25 years of experience in reservoir
engineering and reserves assessment and has a degree in Engineering. He is an
active member of the Society of Petroleum Engineers (SPE). The group is staffed
with individuals that have an average of more than 20 years of technical
experience in the petroleum industry, including expertise in the classification
and categorization of reserves under the SEC guidelines. This group includes
individuals who hold advanced degrees in either Engineering or Geology, and a
member currently serves on the SPE Oil and Gas Reserves Committee.    

   The Global Reserves group maintains a central database
containing the official company reserves estimates. Appropriate controls,
including limitations on database access and update capabilities, are in place
to ensure data integrity within this central database. An annual review of the
system s controls is performed by internal audit. Key components of the
reserves estimation process include technical evaluations and analysis of well
and field performance and a rigorous peer review. No changes may be made to the
reserves estimates in the central database, including additions of any new
initial reserves estimates or subsequent revisions, unless these changes have
been thoroughly reviewed and evaluated by duly authorized personnel within the
operating organization. In addition, changes to reserves estimates that exceed
certain thresholds require further review and approval of the appropriate level
of management within the operating organization before the changes may be made
in the central database. Endorsement by the Global Reserves group for all
proved reserves changes is a mandatory component of this review process. After
all changes are made, reviews are held with senior management for final
endorsement.    

6       

2. Proved Undeveloped Reserves     

   At year-end 2017, approximately 7.3 billion oil-equivalent
barrels (GOEB) of ExxonMobil s proved reserves were classified as proved
undeveloped. This represents 34 percent of the 21.2 GOEB reported in proved
reserves. This compares to the 6.2 GOEB of proved undeveloped reserves reported
at the end of 2016. During the year, ExxonMobil conducted development
activities that resulted in the transfer of approximately 0.7 GOEB from proved
undeveloped to proved developed reserves by year end. The largest
transfers were related to the start-up of the Gorgon field and Longford Gas
Conditioning Plant in Australia and drilling activity in the United States, the
United Arab Emirates, and Kazakhstan. During 2017, extensions and discoveries,
primarily in the United Arab Emirates, the United States, and Guyana resulted
in an addition of approximately 0.9 GOEB of proved undeveloped reserves. Also,
purchases, primarily in the United States and Mozambique resulted in the
addition of approximately 0.9 GOEB of proved undeveloped reserves.    

   Overall, investments of $8 billion were made by the
Corporation during 2017 to progress the development of reported proved
undeveloped reserves, including $8 billion for oil and gas producing activities
and in addition, nearly $100 million for other non-oil and gas producing
activities such as the construction of support infrastructure and other related
facilities. These investments represented 48 percent of the $16.7 billion in
total reported Upstream capital and exploration expenditures. Investments made
by the Corporation to develop quantities which no longer meet the SEC
definition of proved reserves due to 2017 average prices are included in the
$16.7 billion of Upstream capital expenditures reported above but are excluded
from amounts related to progressing the development of proved undeveloped
reserves.    

   One of ExxonMobil s requirements for reporting proved
reserves is that management has made significant funding commitments toward the
development of the reserves. ExxonMobil has a disciplined investment strategy
and many major fields require long lead time in order to be developed.
Development projects typically take several years from the time of recording
proved undeveloped reserves to the start of production and can exceed five
years for large and complex projects. Proved undeveloped reserves in Canada,
Kazakhstan, Australia, the Netherlands, the United States, and Qatar have
remained undeveloped for five years or more primarily due to constraints on the
capacity of infrastructure, as well as the time required to complete
development for very large projects. The Corporation is reasonably certain that
these proved reserves will be produced; however, the timing and amount
recovered can be affected by a number of factors including completion of
development projects, reservoir performance, regulatory approvals, government
policies, consumer preferences, the pace of co venturer/government
funding, and significant changes in long-term oil and natural gas price levels.
Of the proved undeveloped reserves that have been reported for five or more
years, over 80 percent are contained in the aforementioned countries. In
Canada, proved undeveloped reserves are related to drilling activities in the
offshore Hebron field and onshore Cold Lake operations. In Kazakhstan, the
proved undeveloped reserves are related to the remainder of the initial
development of the producing offshore Kashagan field which is included in the
North Caspian Production Sharing Agreement and the Tengizchevroil joint venture
which includes a production license in the Tengiz   Korolev field complex. The
Tengizchevroil joint venture is producing, and proved undeveloped reserves will
continue to move to proved developed as approved development phases progress.
In Australia, proved undeveloped reserves are associated with future
compression for the Gorgon Jansz LNG project. In the Netherlands, the Groningen
gas field has proved undeveloped reserves related to installation of future
compression.   

7       

3. Oil and Gas Production, Production
Prices and Production Costs    

    A. Oil and Gas Production     

   The table below summarizes production by
final product sold and by geographic area for the last three years.    

(1)   Other Americas includes natural gas
production available for sale for 2017, 2016 and 2015 of 24 million, 22 million,
and 21 million cubic feet daily, respectively.     

8       

B. Production Prices and Production Costs    

   The table below summarizes average
production prices and average production costs by geographic area and by
product type for the last three years.    

9       

Average production prices have been calculated by using
sales quantities from the Corporation s own production as the divisor. Average
production costs have been computed by using net production quantities for the
divisor. The volumes of crude oil and natural gas liquids (NGL) production used
for this computation are shown in the oil and gas production table in section
3.A. The volumes of natural gas used in the calculation are the production
volumes of natural gas available for sale and are also shown in section 3.A.
The natural gas available for sale volumes are different from those shown in
the reserves table in the  Oil and Gas Reserves  part of the  Supplemental
Information on Oil and Gas Exploration and Production Activities  portion of
the Financial Section of this report due to volumes consumed or flared. Gas is
converted to an oil-equivalent basis at six million cubic feet per one thousand
barrels.    

10       

4. Drilling and Other Exploratory and
Development Activities    

    A. Number of Net Productive and Dry Wells
Drilled     

2017   

2016   

2015   

Net Productive
  Exploratory Wells Drilled   

Consolidated
  Subsidiaries   

United States  

-  

-  

-  

Canada/Other
  Americas  

5  

2  

1  

Europe  

-  

1  

1  

Africa  

1  

1  

1  

Asia  

-  

-  

2  

Australia/Oceania  

-  

-  

1  

Total
  Consolidated Subsidiaries  

6  

4  

6  

Equity
  Companies   

United States  

-  

-  

-  

Europe  

-  

1  

1  

Africa  

-  

-  

-  

Asia  

-  

-  

-  

Total Equity
  Companies  

-  

1  

1  

Total
  productive exploratory wells drilled   

6  

5  

7  

Net Dry
  Exploratory Wells Drilled   

Consolidated
  Subsidiaries   

United States  

-  

-  

1  

Canada/Other
  Americas  

-  

1  

-  

Europe  

-  

-  

2  

Africa  

2  

1  

-  

Asia  

-  

-  

-  

Australia/Oceania  

-  

-  

-  

Total
  Consolidated Subsidiaries  

2  

2  

3  

Equity
  Companies   

United States  

-  

-  

1  

Europe  

-  

-  

1  

Africa  

-  

-  

-  

Asia  

1  

-  

-  

Total Equity
  Companies  

1  

-  

2  

Total dry
  exploratory wells drilled   

3  

2  

5  

11       

12       

B. Exploratory and Development Activities Regarding Oil and Gas
Resources Extracted by Mining Technologies    

    Syncrude Operations.      Syncrude is a joint venture established to
recover shallow deposits of oil sands using open-pit mining methods to extract
the crude bitumen, and then upgrade it to produce a high-quality, light (32
degrees API), sweet, synthetic crude oil. Imperial Oil Limited is the owner of
a 25 percent interest in the joint venture. Exxon Mobil Corporation has a 69.6 percent
interest in Imperial Oil Limited. In 2017, the company s share of net
production of synthetic crude oil was about 57 thousand barrels per day
and share of net acreage was about 63 thousand acres in the Athabasca oil
sands deposit.    

    Kearl Operations.      Kearl is a joint venture established to
recover shallow deposits of oil sands using open-pit mining methods to extract
the crude bitumen. Imperial Oil Limited holds a 70.96 percent interest in the
joint venture and ExxonMobil Canada Properties holds the other 29.04 percent.
Exxon Mobil Corporation has a 69.6 percent interest in Imperial Oil Limited and
a 100 percent interest in ExxonMobil Canada Properties. Kearl is comprised
of six oil sands leases covering about 49 thousand acres in the Athabasca oil
sands deposit.    

   Kearl is located approximately 40 miles north of Fort
McMurray, Alberta, Canada. Bitumen is extracted from oil sands produced from
open-pit mining operations, and processed through bitumen extraction and froth
treatment trains. The product, a blend of bitumen and diluent, is shipped to our
refineries and to other third parties. Diluent is natural gas condensate or
other light hydrocarbons added to the crude bitumen to facilitate
transportation by pipeline and rail. During 2017, average net production at
Kearl was about 174 thousand barrels per day.    

5. Present Activities     

    A. Wells Drilling     

B. Review of Principal
Ongoing Activities     

     UNITED STATES      

   ExxonMobil s year-end 2017 acreage holdings totaled 12.8 million
net acres, of     which 0.9
million   net acres were offshore. ExxonMobil was
active in areas onshore and offshore in the lower 48 states and in Alaska    .    

   During
the year, 444.9 net development wells were completed in the inland lower 48
states. Development activities focused on liquids-rich opportunities in the
onshore U.S., primarily in the Permian Basin of West Texas and New Mexico and
the Bakken oil play in North Dakota. In addition, gas development activities
continued in the Marcellus Shale of Pennsylvania and West Virginia, the Utica
Shale of Ohio          and the Haynesville Shale of East Texas and Louisiana. In
2017, ExxonMobil acquired a number of oil and gas properties in the Permian
Basin.    

   ExxonMobil s net acreage in the Gulf of Mexico at year-end 2017
was 0.8 million acres. A     total
of 2.3     net development
wells were completed during the year.    

   Participation
in Alaska production and development continued with a total of 10.9 net
development wells completed.    

13       

CANADA
/ OTHER AMERICAS             

    Canada     

    Oil and Gas Operations:           ExxonMobil s
year-end 2017 acreage holdings totaled 6.5 million net acres, of which 3.2
million net acres were offshore. A total of 10.8 net development wells were
completed during the year. The Hebron project started up in 2017.    

    In Situ Bitumen Operations:             ExxonMobil s year-end 2017 in situ bitumen acreage holdings
totaled 0.7 million net onshore acres.         

    Argentina     

   ExxonMobil s net acreage totaled 0.3 million onshore acres
at year-end 2017, and there were 4.0 net exploration and development wells
completed during the year    .   

    Guyana    

   ExxonMobil s net acreage totaled 5.2 million offshore acres
at year-end 2017, and there were 2.3 net exploration wells completed during the
year. The Liza Phase 1 project was funded in 2017.   

     EUROPE      

    Germany     

   A total of 2.8 million net onshore acres were held by
ExxonMobil at year-end 2017, with 1.3 net development wells completed during
the year.    

    Netherlands     

   ExxonMobil s net interest in licenses totaled approximately
1.5 million acres at year-end 2017, of which 1.1 million acres were onshore. A
total of 1.3 net exploration and development wells were completed during the
year    .    

    Norway     

   ExxonMobil s net interest in licenses at year-end 2017
totaled approximately 0.1 million acres, all offshore. A total of 3.9 net
development wells were completed during the year    . In 2017, ExxonMobil divested approximately 81 thousand
net operated acres in Norway.    

    United Kingdom     

   ExxonMobil s net interest in licenses at
year-end 2017 totaled approximately 0.6 million acres, all offshore. A total of
1.2 net exploration and development wells were completed during the year.          The Penguins Redevelopment project was funded in 2017.         

     AFRICA      

    Angola     

   ExxonMobil s net acreage totaled 0.2 million offshore acres
at year-end 2017, with 5.9 net development wells completed during the year. On
Block 32, development activities continued on the Kaombo Split Hub project.         

    Chad     

   ExxonMobil s net year-end 2017 acreage
holdings consisted of 46 thousand onshore acres.   

    Equatorial Guinea    

   ExxonMobil s acreage totaled 0.3 million net offshore acres
at year-end 2017, with 2.4 net exploration wells completed during the year.         

    Mozambique     

   ExxonMobil s net acreage totaled approximately 0.1 million
offshore acres at year-end 2017. ExxonMobil acquired an interest in Area 4
offshore Mozambique in December 2017. The Coral South Floating LNG project was
funded in 2017.   

    Nigeria     

   ExxonMobil s net acreage totaled 1.1 million offshore acres
at year-end 2017, with 0.8 net development wells completed during the year.

14       

ASIA

Azerbaijan     

   At year-end 2017, ExxonMobil s net acreage
totaled 9 thousand offshore acres. A total of 1.3 net development wells were
completed during the year.         

    Indonesia     

   At year-end 2017, ExxonMobil had 0.1 million net acres
onshore. In 2017, ExxonMobil relinquished approximately 0.4 million net acres
offshore.    

    Iraq     

   At year-end 2017, ExxonMobil s onshore
acreage was 0.1 million net acres. A total of 4.5 net development wells
were completed at the West Qurna Phase I oil field during the year. Oil field
rehabilitation activities continued during 2017 and     across
the life of this project will include drilling of new wells, working over of
existing wells, and optimization and debottlenecking of existing facilities.     In the Kurdistan Region of Iraq,
ExxonMobil continued exploration activities.    

    Kazakhstan     

   ExxonMobil s net acreage   totaled
0.1 million acres onshore and 0.2 million acres offshore at year-end     2017    . A total of 4    .    3 net development wells were
completed during     2017    .     Development activities continued on the
Tengiz Expansion project.   

    Malaysia     

   ExxonMobil s interests in production sharing contracts covered
2.5 million net acres offshore at year-end 2017. During the year, a total of
1.5 net development wells were completed. ExxonMobil acquired deepwater acreage
offshore Sabah.   

    Qatar     

   Through our joint ventures with Qatar Petroleum,
ExxonMobil s net acreage totaled 65 thousand acres offshore at year-end 2017.
ExxonMobil participated in 62.2 million tonnes per year gross liquefied natural
gas capacity and 2.0 billion cubic feet per day of flowing gas capacity at year
end. Development     activities
continued on the Barzan project in 2017.   

    Republic of Yemen     

   ExxonMobil s net acreage in the Republic of Yemen
production sharing areas totaled 10 thousand acres onshore at year-end 2017.    

    Russia     

   ExxonMobil s net acreage holdings in Sakhalin at year-end
2017 were 85 thousand acres, all offshore. A total of 2.1 net exploration and
development wells were completed. The Odoptu Stage 2 project started up in
2017.   

   At year-end 2017, ExxonMobil s net acreage in the Rosneft
joint venture agreements for the Kara, Laptev, Chukchi and Black Seas was 63.6
million acres, all offshore. ExxonMobil and Rosneft formed a joint venture to
evaluate the development of tight-oil reserves in western Siberia in 2013.
Refer to the relevant portion of  Note 7: Equity Company Information  of the
Financial Section of this report for additional information on the
Corporation s participation in Rosneft joint venture activities.    

    Thailand     

   ExxonMobil s net onshore acreage in Thailand concessions
totaled 21 thousand acres at year-end 2017.    

    United Arab Emirates     

   ExxonMobil s net acreage in the Abu Dhabi offshore Upper
Zakum oil concession was 81 thousand acres at year-end 2017. A total of 5.3 net
development wells were completed. During 2017, development activities continued
on the     Upper Zakum 750
project, and agreements were signed for the Upper Zakum 1MBD (million barrels
per day) project, including a 10-year extension to 2051 for the Upper Zakum
concession.    

15       

AUSTRALIA / OCEANIA

Australia     

   ExxonMobil s year-end 2017 acreage holdings totaled 2.0
million net offshore acres. The Gas Conditioning Plant at Longford started up
in 2017.    

   The third train of the co-venturer-operated Gorgon Jansz
liquefied natural gas (LNG) project started up in 2017. The project consists of
a subsea infrastructure for offshore production and transportation of the gas,
a 15.6 million tonnes per year LNG facility and a 280 million cubic feet per
day domestic gas plant located on Barrow Island, Western Australia.    

    Papua New Guinea     

   A     total of 10.1 million net acres were held by ExxonMobil at
year-end 2017, of which 5.4 million net acres were offshore. A total of 0.7 net
exploration and development wells were completed during the year. The Papua New
Guinea (PNG) LNG integrated development includes gas production and processing
facilities in the southern PNG Highlands, onshore and offshore pipelines, and a
6.9 million tonnes per year LNG facility near Port Moresby    . In 2017, ExxonMobil acquired InterOil
Corporation (IOC), an exploration and production business focused on Papua New
Guinea.   

     WORLDWIDE EXPLORATION      

   At year-end 2017, exploration activities were under way in
several areas in which ExxonMobil has no established production operations and
thus are not included above. A total of 30.1 million net acres were held at
year-end 2017 in these countries    .   

6. Delivery Commitments     

   ExxonMobil sells crude oil and natural gas
from its producing operations under a variety of contractual obligations, some
of which may specify the delivery of a fixed and determinable quantity for
periods longer than one year. ExxonMobil also enters into natural gas sales
contracts where the source of the natural gas used to fulfill the contract can
be a combination of our own production and the spot market. Worldwide, we are
contractually committed to deliver approximately 57 million barrels of oil and
2,400 billion cubic feet of natural gas for the period from 2018 through 2020.
We expect to fulfill the majority of these delivery commitments with production
from our proved developed reserves. Any remaining commitments will be fulfilled
with production from our proved undeveloped reserves and spot market purchases
as necessary.   

16       

7. Oil and Gas Properties, Wells,
Operations and Acreage    

    A. Gross and Net Productive Wells     

There were 30,263 gross and 25,827 net operated wells at
year end 2017 and 35,047 gross and 29,375 net operated wells at year-end
2016. The number of wells with multiple completions was 1,366 gross in 2017 and
1,209 gross in 2016.    

17       

B. Gross and Net Developed Acreage          

(1)   Includes developed acreage in Other
Americas of 375 gross and 244 net thousands of acres for 2017 and 213 gross and
109 net thousands of acres for 2016.     

   Separate acreage data for oil and gas are not maintained
because, in many instances, both are produced from the same acreage.    

C. Gross and Net Undeveloped Acreage    

(1)   Includes undeveloped acreage in Other
Americas of 18,625 gross and 8,053 net thousands of acres for 2017 and 13,106 gross
and 5,146 net thousands of acres for 2016.    

   ExxonMobil s investment in developed and undeveloped
acreage is comprised of numerous concessions, blocks and leases. The terms and
conditions under which the Corporation maintains exploration and/or production
rights to the acreage are property specific, contractually defined and
vary significantly from property to property. Work programs are designed to
ensure that the exploration potential of any property is fully evaluated before
expiration. In some instances, the Corporation may elect to relinquish acreage
in advance of the contractual expiration date if the evaluation process is
complete and there is not a business basis for extension. In cases where
additional time may be required to fully evaluate acreage, the Corporation has
generally been successful in obtaining extensions. The scheduled expiration of
leases and concessions for undeveloped acreage over the next three years is not
expected to have a material adverse impact on the Corporation.    

18       

D. Summary of Acreage Terms    

     UNITED STATES      

   Oil and gas exploration and production rights are acquired
from mineral interest owners through a lease. Mineral interest owners include
the Federal and State governments, as well as private mineral interest owners.
Leases typically have an exploration period ranging from one to ten years, and
a production period that normally remains in effect until production ceases.
Under certain circumstances, a lease may be held beyond its exploration term
even if production has not commenced. In some instances regarding private
property, a  fee interest  is acquired where the underlying mineral interests
are owned outright.   

     CANADA / OTHER
AMERICAS      

    Canada     

   Exploration licenses or leases in onshore areas are
acquired for varying periods of time with renewals or extensions possible.
These licenses or leases entitle the holder to continue existing licenses or
leases upon completing specified work. In general, these license and lease
agreements are held as long as there is proven production capability on the
licenses and leases. Exploration licenses in offshore eastern Canada and the
Beaufort Sea are held by work commitments of various amounts and rentals. They
are valid for a maximum term of nine years. Offshore production licenses are
valid for 25 years, with rights of extension for continued production.
Significant discovery licenses in the offshore, relating to currently
undeveloped discoveries, do not have a definite term.    

    Argentina     

   The Federal Hydrocarbon Law was amended in December 2014.
The onshore concession terms granted prior to the amendment are up to six
years, divided into three potential exploration periods, with an optional
extension for up to one year depending on the classification of the area.
Pursuant to the amended law, the production term for a conventional production
concession would be 25 years, and 35 years for an unconventional
concession, with unlimited ten-year extensions possible, once a field has been
developed.    

    Guyana     

   The Petroleum (Exploration and Production) Act authorizes
the government of Guyana to grant petroleum prospecting and production licenses
and to enter into petroleum agreements for the exploration and production of
hydrocarbons. Petroleum agreements provide for an exploration period of up to
10 years with a production period of 20 years with a 10 year extension.    

     EUROPE      

    Germany     

   Exploration concessions are granted for an initial maximum
period of five years, with an unlimited number of extensions of up to three
years each. Extensions are subject to specific, minimum work commitments.
Production licenses are normally granted for 20 to 25 years with
multiple possible extensions as long as there is production on the license.   

    Netherlands                                                                          

   Under the Mining Law, effective January 1, 2003,
exploration and production licenses for both onshore and offshore areas are
issued for a period as explicitly defined in the license. The term is based on
the period of time necessary to perform the activities for which the license is
issued. License conditions are stipulated in the license and are based on the
Mining Law.    

   Production rights granted prior to January 1, 2003, remain
subject to their existing terms, and differ slightly for onshore and offshore
areas. Onshore production licenses issued prior to 1988 were indefinite; from
1988 they were issued for a period as explicitly defined in the license,
ranging from 35 to 45 years. Offshore production licenses issued before 1976
were issued for a fixed period of 40 years; from 1976 they were again issued
for a period as explicitly defined in the license, ranging from 15 to
40 years.    

    Norway     

   Licenses issued between 1972 and 1997 were for an initial
period of up to six years (with extension of the initial period of one year at
a time up to ten years after 1985), and an extension period of up to 30 years,
with relinquishment of at least one-half of the original area required at the
end of the initial period. Licenses issued after July 1, 1997, have an initial
period of up to ten years and a normal extension period of up to 30 years or in
special cases of up to 50 years, and with relinquishment of at least one-half
of the original area required at the end of the initial period.   

19       

United
Kingdom     

   Acreage terms are fixed by the government and are
periodically changed. For example, many of the early licenses issued under the
first four licensing rounds provided for an initial term of six years with
relinquishment of at least one-half of the original area at the end of the
initial term, subject to extension for a further 40 years. At the end of any
such 40-year term, licenses may continue in producing areas until cessation of
production; or licenses may continue in development areas for periods agreed on
a case-by-case basis until they become producing areas; or licenses terminate
in all other areas. The majority of traditional licenses currently issued have
an initial exploration term of four years with a second term extension of four
years, and a final production term of 18 years, with a mandatory relinquishment
of 50 percent of the acreage after the initial term and of all acreage that is
not covered by a development plan at the end of the second term.    

   Terms for exploration acreage in technically challenged
areas are governed by frontier production licenses, generally covering a larger
initial area than traditional licenses, with an initial exploration term of six
or nine years with a second term extension of six years, and a final production
term of 18 years, with relinquishment of 75 percent of the original area after
three years and 50 percent of the remaining acreage after the next three years.
Innovate licenses issued replace traditional and frontier licenses and offer
greater flexibility with respect to periods and work program commitments.   

     AFRICA      

    Angola     

   Exploration and production activities are governed by
production sharing agreements with an initial exploration term of four years
and an optional second phase of two to three years. The production period is 25
years, and agreements generally provide for a negotiated extension.    

    Chad     

   Exploration permits are issued for a period of five years,
and are renewable for one or two further five-year periods. The terms and
conditions of the permits, including relinquishment obligations, are specified
in a negotiated convention. The production term is 30 years and   in 2017 was extended by 20 years to 2050.       

    Equatorial Guinea     

   Exploration, development and production activities are
governed by production sharing contracts (PSCs) negotiated with the State
Ministry of Mines and Hydrocarbons. A new PSC was signed in 2015; the initial
exploration period is five years for oil and gas, with multi-year extensions
available at the discretion of the Ministry and limited relinquishments in the
absence of commercial discoveries. The production period for crude oil ranges
from 25 to 30 years, while the production period for natural gas ranges from 25
to 50 years.    

    Mozambique     

   Exploration and production activities are generally
governed by concession contracts with the Government of the Republic of
Mozambique, represented by the Ministry of Mineral Resources and Energy. An
interest in Area 4 offshore Mozambique was acquired in December
2017. Terms for Area 4 are governed by the Exploration and Production
Concession Contract (EPCC) for Area 4 Offshore of the Rovuma Block dated
December 20, 2006 and Decree Law 2/2014. The EPCC expires 30 years after the
approval of a plan of development for a given discovery area.    

    Nigeria     

   Exploration and production activities in the deepwater
offshore areas are typically governed by production sharing contracts (PSCs)
with the national oil company, the Nigerian National Petroleum Corporation
(NNPC). NNPC typically holds the underlying Oil Prospecting License (OPL) and
any resulting Oil Mining Lease (OML). The terms of the PSCs are generally 30
years, including a ten-year exploration period (an initial exploration phase
that can be divided into multiple optional periods) covered by an OPL. Upon
commercial discovery, an OPL may be converted to an OML. Partial relinquishment
is required under the PSC at the end of the ten-year exploration period, and
OMLs have a 20-year production period that may be extended.    

   Some exploration activities are carried out in deepwater by
joint ventures with local companies holding interests in an OPL. OPLs in
deepwater offshore areas are valid for 10 years, while in all other areas the
licenses are for five years. Demonstrating a commercial discovery is the basis
for conversion of an OPL to an OML.    

   OMLs granted prior to the 1969 Petroleum Act (i.e., under
the Mineral Oils Act 1914, repealed by the 1969 Petroleum Act) were for 30
years onshore and 40 years in offshore areas and have been renewed, effective
December 1, 2008, for a further period of 20 years, with a further renewal
option of 20 years. Operations under these pre-1969 OMLs are conducted under a
joint venture agreement with NNPC rather than a PSC. Commercial terms
applicable to the existing joint venture oil production are defined by the
Petroleum Profits Tax Act.    

20       

OMLs granted
under the 1969 Petroleum Act, which include all deepwater OMLs, have a maximum
term of 20 years without distinction for onshore or offshore location and are
renewable, upon 12 months  written notice, for another period of 20 years. OMLs
not held by NNPC are also subject to a mandatory 50-percent relinquishment
after the first 10 years of their duration.    

     ASIA      

    Azerbaijan     

   The production sharing agreement (PSA) for the development
of the Azeri-Chirag-Gunashli field is established for an initial period of 30
years starting from the PSA execution date in 1994. The PSA was amended in
September 2017 to extend the term by 25 years to 2049.   

   Other exploration and production activities are governed by
PSAs negotiated with the national oil company of Azerbaijan. The exploration
period typically consists of three or four years with the possibility of a one
to three-year extension. The production period, which includes development, is
for 25 years or 35 years with the possibility of one or two five-year
extensions.    

    Indonesia     

   Exploration and production activities in Indonesia are
generally governed by cooperation contracts, usually in the form of a
production sharing contract (PSC), negotiated with BPMIGAS, a government agency
established in 2002 to manage upstream oil and gas activities. In 2012,
Indonesia s Constitutional Court ruled certain articles of law relating to
BPMIGAS to be unconstitutional, but stated that all existing PSCs signed with
BPMIGAS should remain in force until their expiry, and the functions and duties
previously performed by BPMIGAS are to be carried out by the relevant Ministry
of the Government of Indonesia until the promulgation of a new oil and gas law.
By presidential decree, SKKMIGAS became the interim successor to BPMIGAS. The
current PSCs have an exploration period of six years, which can be extended up
to 10 years, and an exploitation period of 20 years. PSCs generally require the
contractor to relinquish 10 percent to 20 percent of the contract area after
three years and generally allow the contractor to retain no more than 50 percent
to 80 percent of the original contract area after six years, depending on the
acreage and terms.    

    Iraq     

   Development and production activities in the state-owned
oil and gas fields are governed by contracts with regional oil companies of the
Iraqi Ministry of Oil. An ExxonMobil affiliate entered into a contract with
Basra Oil Company of the Iraqi Ministry of Oil for the rights to participate in
the development and production activities of the West Qurna Phase I oil
and gas field effective March 1, 2010. The term of the contract is 20 years
with the right to extend for five years. The contract provides for cost
recovery plus per-barrel fees for incremental production above specified
levels.    

   Exploration and production activities in the Kurdistan
Region of Iraq are governed by production sharing contracts (PSCs) negotiated
with the regional government of Kurdistan in 2011. The exploration term is for
five years, with extensions available as provided by the PSCs and at the
discretion of the regional government of Kurdistan. Current PSCs remain in
effect by agreement of the regional government to allow additional time for
exploration or evaluation of commerciality. The production period is
20 years with the right to extend for five years.   

    Kazakhstan     

   Onshore exploration and production activities are governed
by the production license, exploration license and joint venture agreements
negotiated with the Republic of Kazakhstan. Existing production operations have
a 40-year production period that commenced in 1993.    

   Offshore exploration and production activities are governed
by a production sharing agreement negotiated with the Republic of Kazakhstan.
The exploration period is six years followed by separate appraisal periods for
each discovery. The production period for each discovery, which includes
development, is 20 years from the date of declaration of commerciality with the
possibility of two ten-year extensions.    

    Malaysia     

   Production activities are governed by production sharing
contracts (PSCs) negotiated with the national oil company. The PSCs have
exploration and production terms ranging up to 38 years. All extensions are
subject to the national oil company s prior written approval. The production
periods range from 15 to 29 years, depending on the provisions of the
respective contract.    

    Qatar     

   The State of Qatar grants gas production development
project rights to develop and supply gas from the offshore North Field to
permit the economic development and production of gas reserves sufficient to
satisfy the gas and LNG sales obligations of these projects.    

21       

Republic
of Yemen     

   The Jannah production sharing agreement has a development
period extending 20 years from first commercial declaration, which was made in
June 1995. Due to force majeure events, the development period has been
extended beyond its original expiration date, with the possibility of further
extensions due to ongoing force majeure events.   

    Russia     

   Terms for ExxonMobil s Sakhalin acreage are fixed by the
current production sharing agreement (PSA) between the Russian government and
the Sakhalin-1 consortium, of which ExxonMobil is the operator.    

   Exploration and production
activities in the Kara, Laptev, Chukchi and Black Seas are governed by joint
venture agreements concluded with Rosneft in 2013 and 2014 that cover certain
of Rosneft s offshore licenses. The Kara Sea licenses covered by the joint
venture agreements concluded in 2013 extend through 2040 and include
exploration periods through 2020 and 2022. Additional licenses in the Kara,
Laptev and Chukchi Seas covered by the joint venture agreements concluded in
2014 extend through 2043 and include an exploration period through 2023. The
Kara, Laptev and Chukchi Sea licenses require development plan submission
within eight to eleven years from a discovery and development activities within
five years of plan approval. The Black Sea exploration license extends through
2020, and a discovery is the basis for obtaining a license for production.
Refer to the relevant portion of  Note 7: Equity Company Information 
of the Financial Section of this report for additional information on the
Corporation s participation in Rosneft joint venture activities.    

    Thailand     

   The Petroleum Act of 1971 allows production under
ExxonMobil s concession for 30 years with a ten-year extension at terms
generally prevalent at the time. The term of the concession expires in 2021.   

    United Arab Emirates     

   An interest in the development and production activities of
the Upper Zakum field, a major offshore field, was acquired effective as of
January 2006, for a term expiring March 2026. In 2013 the governing agreements
were extended to 2041 and in 2017 they were extended to 2051.   

     AUSTRALIA / OCEANIA      

    Australia     

   Exploration and production activities conducted offshore in
Commonwealth waters are governed by Federal legislation. Exploration permits
are granted for an initial term of six years with two possible five-year
renewal periods. Retention leases may be granted for resources that are not commercially
viable at the time of application, but are expected to become commercially
viable within 15 years. These are granted for periods of five years and
renewals may be requested. Prior to July 1998, production licenses were granted
initially for 21 years, with a further renewal of 21 years and thereafter
 indefinitely , i.e., for the life of the field. Effective from July 1998, new
production licenses are granted  indefinitely . In each case, a production
license may be terminated if no production operations have been carried on for
five years.    

    Papua New Guinea     

   Exploration and production activities are governed by the
Oil and Gas Act. Petroleum Prospecting licenses are granted for an initial term
of six years with a five-year extension possible (an additional extension of
three years is possible in certain circumstances). Generally, a 50-percent
relinquishment of the license area is required at the end of the initial
six-year term, if extended. Petroleum Development licenses are granted for an
initial 25-year period. An extension of up to 20 years may be granted at the
Minister s discretion. Petroleum Retention licenses may be granted for gas
resources that are not commercially viable at the time of application, but may
become commercially viable within the maximum possible retention time of 15
years. Petroleum Retention licenses are granted for five-year terms, and may be
extended, at the Minister s discretion, twice for the maximum retention time of
15 years. Extensions of Petroleum Retention licenses may be for periods of less
than one year, renewable annually, if the Minister considers at the time of extension
that the resources could become commercially viable in less than five years.    

22       

Information with regard to the Downstream
segment follows:    

   ExxonMobil s Downstream segment manufactures and sells
petroleum products. The refining and supply operations encompass a global
network of manufacturing plants, transportation systems, and distribution
centers that provide a range of fuels, lubricants and other products and
feedstocks to our customers around the world.    

    Refining Capacity At
Year-End 2017       (1)    

(1)   Capacity data is based on
100 percent of rated refinery process unit stream-day capacities under
normal operating conditions, less the impact of shutdowns for regular repair
and maintenance activities, averaged over an extended period of time. The
listing excludes cost company refining capacity in New Zealand, and the Laffan
Refinery in Qatar for which results are reported in the Upstream segment.    

    (2)   Thousands of barrels per day (KBD).
ExxonMobil share reflects 100 percent of atmospheric distillation capacity
in operations of ExxonMobil and majority-owned subsidiaries. For companies
owned 50 percent or less, ExxonMobil share is the greater of ExxonMobil s
interest or that portion of distillation capacity normally available to ExxonMobil.

23       

The marketing operations sell products and services throughout the world
through our    Exxon   ,    Esso     and    Mobil     brands.  

Retail Sites At Year-End 2017    

24       

Information with regard to the Chemical
segment follows:    

   ExxonMobil s Chemical segment manufactures and sells
petrochemicals. The Chemical business supplies olefins, polyolefins, aromatics,
and a wide variety of other petrochemicals.    

    Chemical Complex Capacity At Year-End 2017
      (1)(2)            

(1)   Capacity for ethylene, polyethylene,
polypropylene and paraxylene in millions of metric tons per year.     

    (2)   Capacity reflects 100 percent
for operations of ExxonMobil and majority owned subsidiaries. For
companies owned 50 percent or less, capacity is ExxonMobil s interest.     

25       

Item 3.       Legal
Proceedings   

   As
reported in the Corporation s Form 10-Q for the second quarter of 2017, on June
20, 2017, the United States Department of Justice (DOJ) and the United States
Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) notified XTO Energy Inc. (XTO) concerning
alleged violations of the Clean Air Act and the Fort Berthold Indian
Reservation Federal Implementation Plan regarding the alleged failure of vapor
control systems to properly route tank vapors to control devices at well pads
and tank farms on the Fort Berthold Indian Reservation. In January 2018, XTO,
the DOJ and the EPA agreed to the terms of a Consent Decree concerning those
alleged violations. XTO has agreed to pay a penalty of $320,000, install
automatic tank gauging on 30 well sites, and monitor and report emissions for
three years. Following signature by EPA and the DOJ, the Consent Decree is
subject to a 30-day public comment period and approval by the United States
Federal District Court for the District of North Dakota   Western Division, in
Bismarck, North Dakota, which is expected in March 2018.   

   As
reported in the Corporation s Form 10-Q for the second quarter of 2017, in late
April 2017, the State of North Dakota Department of Health (NDDOH) and the
North Dakota State Office of the Attorney General notified XTO of their
interest in settling alleged violations of the North Dakota Century Code and
implementing regulations regarding the alleged failure of vapor control systems
to properly route tank vapors to control devices at well pads and tank farms
outside the Fort Berthold Indian Reservation. On February 1, 2018, the South
Central Judicial District Court in Bismarck, North Dakota, approved a Consent
Decree between XTO and NDDOH concerning those alleged violations. Under the
Consent Decree, XTO will pay a civil penalty of up to $665,000, but that amount
may be reduced if specified corrective actions are achieved by deadlines set
forth in the Consent Decree. Assuming these deadlines are met, XTO anticipates
that it will pay a penalty of approximately $440,000 in the fourth quarter of
2018. XTO will monitor and report compliance with the terms of the Consent
Decree for a period of two years.   

   On
July 20, 2017, the United States Department of Treasury, Office of Foreign
Assets Control (OFAC) assessed a civil penalty against Exxon Mobil Corporation,
ExxonMobil Development Company and ExxonMobil Oil Corporation for violating the
Ukraine-Related Sanctions Regulations, 31 C.F.R. part 589. The assessed civil
penalty is in the amount of $2,000,000. ExxonMobil and its affiliates have been
and continue to be in compliance with all sanctions and disagree that any
violation has occurred. ExxonMobil and its affiliates filed a complaint on July
20, 2017, in the United States Federal District Court, Northern District of
Texas seeking judicial review of, and to enjoin, the civil penalty under the
Administrative Procedures Act and the United States Constitution, including on
the basis that it represents an arbitrary and capricious action by OFAC and a
violation of the Company s due process rights.   

   Refer to the relevant portions of  Note 16: Litigation
and Other Contingencies  of the Financial Section of this report for additional
information on legal proceedings.    

Item 4.       MINE SAFETY DISCLOSURES   

  Not
applicable.   

_______________________  

26       

Executive Officers of the Registrant [pursuant to
Instruction 3 to Regulation S-K, Item 401(b)]

    (positions and ages as of February 28,
2018)  

Darren W. Woods   

Chairman of the Board   

Held current title since:  

January 1, 2017  

Age: 53  

Mr. Darren W. Woods was President
  of ExxonMobil Refining   Supply Company August 1, 2012  
  July 31, 2014 and Vice President of Exxon Mobil Corporation August 1, 2012  
  May 31, 2014. He was Senior Vice President of Exxon Mobil Corporation June 1, 2014  
  December 31, 2015. He became a Director and President of Exxon
  Mobil Corporation on January 1, 2016, and Chairman of the Board and
  Chief Executive Officer on January 1, 2017, positions he still
  holds as of this filing date.  

Mark W. Albers   

Senior Vice President   

Held current title since:  

April 1, 2007  

Age: 61  

Mr. Mark W. Albers became
  Senior Vice President of Exxon Mobil Corporation on April 1, 2007,
  a position he still holds as of this filing date.  

Neil A. Chapman   

Senior Vice President   

Held current title since:  

January 1, 2018  

Age: 55  

Mr. Neil A. Chapman was Senior
  Vice President, ExxonMobil Chemical Company April 1, 2011  
  December 31, 2014. He was President of ExxonMobil Chemical Company
  and Vice President of Exxon Mobil Corporation January 1, 2015   December 31, 2017. He became Senior Vice
  President of Exxon Mobil Corporation on January 1, 2018, a position he still
  holds as of this filing date.  

Michael J. Dolan   

Senior Vice President   

Held current title since:  

April 1, 2008  

Age: 64  

Mr. Michael J. Dolan became
  Senior Vice President of Exxon Mobil Corporation on April 1, 2008,
  a position he still holds as of this filing date.  

Andrew P. Swiger   

Senior Vice President   

Held current title since:  

April 1, 2009  

Age: 61  

Mr. Andrew P. Swiger became
  Senior Vice President of Exxon Mobil Corporation on April 1, 2009,
  a position he still holds as of this filing date.  

Jack P. Williams, Jr.   

Senior Vice President   

Held current title since:  

June 1, 2014  

Age: 54  

Mr. Jack P. Williams, Jr. was President
  of XTO Energy Inc. June 25, 2010   May 31, 2013. He
  was Executive Vice President of ExxonMobil Production Company
  June 1, 2013   June 30, 2014. He became Senior Vice
  President of Exxon Mobil Corporation on June 1, 2014, a position he
  still holds as of this filing date.  

Bradley W. Corson   

Vice President   

Held current title since:  

March 1, 2015  

Age: 56  

Mr. Bradley W. Corson was Regional Vice
  President, Europe/Caspian for ExxonMobil Production Company May 1, 2009  
  April 30, 2014. He was Vice President, ExxonMobil Upstream Ventures
  May 1, 2014   February 28, 2015. He became President of
  ExxonMobil Upstream Ventures and Vice President of Exxon Mobil Corporation on
  March 1, 2015, positions he still holds as of this filing date.  

27       

Neil W. Duffin   

Vice President   

Held current title since:  

January 1, 2017  

Age: 61  

Mr. Neil W. Duffin was
  President of ExxonMobil Development Company April 13, 2007  
  December 31, 2016. He became President of ExxonMobil Production
  Company and Vice President of Exxon Mobil Corporation on
  January 1, 2017, positions he still holds as of this filing date.  

Randall M. Ebner   

Vice President and General Counsel   

Held current title since:  

November 1, 2016  

Age: 62  

Mr. Randall M. Ebner was Assistant
  General Counsel of Exxon Mobil Corporation January 1, 2009  
  October 31, 2016. He became Vice President and General Counsel of
  Exxon Mobil Corporation on November 1, 2016, positions he still
  holds as of this filing date.  

Robert S. Franklin   

Vice President   

Held current title since:  

May 1, 2009  

Age: 60  

Mr. Robert S. Franklin was President of
  ExxonMobil Upstream Ventures and Vice President of Exxon Mobil Corporation May 1, 2009  
  February 28, 2013. He became President of ExxonMobil Gas  
  Power Marketing Company and Vice President of Exxon Mobil Corporation on
  March 1, 2013, positions he holds as of February 28, 2018.  

Stephen M. Greenlee   

Vice President   

Held current title since:  

September 1, 2010  

Age: 60  

Mr. Stephen M. Greenlee
  became President of ExxonMobil Exploration Company and Vice President of
  Exxon Mobil Corporation on September 1, 2010, positions he still
  holds as of this filing date.  

Liam M. Mallon   

President, ExxonMobil Development
  Company   

Held current title since:  

January 1, 2017  

Age: 55  

Mr. Liam M. Mallon was Vice President,
  Africa, ExxonMobil Production Company
  June 1, 2012   January 31, 2014. He was
  Executive Vice President, ExxonMobil Development Company
  February 1, 2014   December 31, 2016. He became
  President of ExxonMobil Development Company on January 1, 2017, a
  position he still holds as of this filing date.  

Bryan W. Milton   

Vice President   

Held current title since:  

August 1, 2016  

Age: 53  

Mr. Bryan W. Milton was President of
  ExxonMobil Global Services Company April 1, 2011  
  July 31, 2016. He was President of ExxonMobil Fuels, Lubricants
    Specialties Marketing Company and Vice President of Exxon Mobil Corporation
  August 1, 2016   December 31, 2017. He became President of
  ExxonMobil Fuels   Lubricants Company and Vice President of Exxon Mobil
  Corporation on January 1, 2018, positions he still holds as of this filing
  date.  

Sara N. Ortwein   

President, XTO Energy Inc., a
  subsidiary of the Corporation   

Held current title since:  

November 1, 2016  

Age: 59  

Ms. Sara N. Ortwein was President of
  ExxonMobil Upstream Research Company September 1, 2010  
  October 31, 2016. She became President of XTO Energy Inc. on
  November 1, 2016, a position she still holds as of this filing
  date.  

David S. Rosenthal   

Vice President and
  Controller   

Held current title since:  

October 1,
  2008 (Vice President)  
    September 1, 2014 (Controller)  

Age: 61  

Mr. David S. Rosenthal was
  Vice President   Investor Relations and Secretary of Exxon Mobil Corporation
  October 1, 2008   August 31, 2014. He became Vice
  President and Controller of Exxon Mobil Corporation on
  September 1, 2014, positions he still holds as of this filing date.  

28       

Robert N.
  Schleckser   

Vice President and Treasurer   

Held current title since:  

May 1, 2011  

Age: 61  

Mr. Robert N. Schleckser became
  Vice President and Treasurer of Exxon Mobil Corporation on May 1, 2011,
  positions he still holds as of this filing date.  

James M. Spellings, Jr.   

Vice President and General Tax
  Counsel   

Held current title since:  

March 1, 2010  

Age: 56  

Mr. James M. Spellings, Jr.
  became Vice President and General Tax Counsel of Exxon Mobil Corporation on
  March 1, 2010, positions he still holds as of this filing date.  

John R. Verity   

Vice President   

Held current title since:  

January 1, 2018  

Age: 59  

Mr. John R. Verity was Vice
  President, Polyolefins, ExxonMobil Chemical Company October 17, 2008   March
  31, 2014. He was Vice President, Plastics   Resins, ExxonMobil Chemical
  Company April 1, 2014   December 31, 2014. He was Senior Vice President,
  Polymers, ExxonMobil Chemical Company January 1, 2015   December 31, 2017. He
  became President of ExxonMobil Chemical Company and Vice President of Exxon Mobil
  Corporation on January 1, 2018, positions he still holds as of this filing
  date.  

Theodore J. Wojnar, Jr.   

Vice President   Corporate Strategic
  Planning   

Held current title since:  

August 1, 2017  

Age: 58  

Mr. Theodore J. Wojnar, Jr. was
  President of ExxonMobil Research and Engineering Company April 1, 2011   July
  31, 2017. He became Vice President   Corporate Strategic Planning of Exxon
  Mobil Corporation on August 1, 2017, a position he still holds as of this
  filing date.  

Jeffrey J. Woodbury   

Vice President   Investor
  Relations and Secretary   

Held current title since:  

July
  1, 2011 (Vice President)  
    September 1, 2014 (Secretary)  

Age: 57  

Mr. Jeffrey J. Woodbury was Vice
  President, Safety, Security, Health and Environment of Exxon Mobil
  Corporation July 1, 2011   August 31, 2014. He
  became Vice President   Investor Relations and Secretary of Exxon Mobil
  Corporation on September 1, 2014, positions he still holds as of
  this filing date.  

Officers are generally elected by the Board of
Directors at its meeting on the day of each annual election of directors, with
each such officer serving until a successor has been elected and qualified.   

29       

PART II    

    Item 5.       Market for Registrant s Common Equity, Related
Stockholder Matters and Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities    

   Reference
is made to the  Quarterly Information  portion of the Financial Section of this
report and Item 12 in Part III of this report.    

Issuer Purchases of
  Equity Securities for Quarter Ended December 31, 2017   

Total Number of   

Shares   

Purchased as   

Maximum Number   

Part of Publicly   

of Shares that May   

Total Number of   

Average Price   

Announced    

Yet Be Purchased   

Shares   

Paid per   

Plans or    

Under the Plans or   

Period   

Purchased   

Share   

Programs   

Programs   

October 2017  

-  

-  

November 2017  

-  

-  

December 2017  

-  

-  

Total  

-  

-  

(See Note 1)  

During the fourth quarter, the Corporation did not purchase
any shares of its common stock for the treasury.   

   Note 1 - On August 1, 2000, the Corporation announced its
intention to resume purchases of shares of its common stock for the treasury
both to offset shares issued in conjunction with company benefit plans and
programs and to gradually reduce the number of shares outstanding. The
announcement did not specify an amount or expiration date. The Corporation has
continued to purchase shares since this announcement and to report purchased
volumes in its quarterly earnings releases. In its earnings release dated February
2, 2016, the Corporation stated it will continue to acquire shares to offset
dilution in conjunction with benefit plans and programs, but had suspended
making purchases to reduce shares outstanding effective beginning the first
quarter of 2016.   

Item 6.       Selected Financial
Data    

(1)   Effective December 31, 2017, the
Corporation revised its accounting policy election related to sales-based taxes.
See Note 2: Accounting Changes of the Financial Section of this report. As a
result, Sales and other operating revenue excludes previously reported
sales-based taxes of $17,980 million in 2016, $19,634 million in 2015, $26,458
million in 2014 and $27,797 million in 2013.    

Item 7.       Management s Discussion and Analysis of Financial
Condition and Results of Operations    

   Reference is made to the section entitled  Management s
Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations  in
the Financial Section of this report.   

30       

Item 7A.    Quantitative and
Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk    

   Reference is made to the section entitled  Market Risks,
Inflation and Other Uncertainties , excluding the part entitled  Inflation and
Other Uncertainties , in the Financial Section of this report. All statements,
other than historical information incorporated in this Item 7A, are
forward-looking statements. The actual impact of future market changes could
differ materially due to, among other things, factors discussed in this report.

Item 8.       Financial Statements and Supplementary Data   

  Reference is made to the following in the Financial
Section of this report:    

Consolidated financial statements, together with the
  report thereon of PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP dated
  February 28, 2018, beginning with the section entitled  Report of
  Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm  and continuing through
   Note 20: Acquisitions    

Quarterly Information  (unaudited);   

Supplemental Information on Oil and Gas Exploration
  and Production Activities  (unaudited); and  

Frequently Used Terms  (unaudited).   

Financial Statement Schedules have been omitted
because they are not applicable or the required information is shown in the
consolidated financial statements or notes thereto.  

Item 9.       Changes in and Disagreements With Accountants
on Accounting and Financial Disclosure    

   None.   

Item 9A.    Controls and Procedures    

    Management s Evaluation of Disclosure
Controls and Procedures     

   As indicated in the certifications in Exhibit 31 of this
report, the Corporation s Chief Executive Officer, Principal Financial Officer
and Principal Accounting Officer have evaluated the Corporation s disclosure
controls and procedures as of December 31, 2017. Based on that
evaluation, these officers have concluded that the Corporation s disclosure
controls and procedures are effective in ensuring that information required to
be disclosed by the Corporation in the reports that it files or submits under
the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, is accumulated and
communicated to them in a manner that allows for timely decisions regarding
required disclosures and are effective in ensuring that such information is
recorded, processed, summarized and reported within the time periods specified
in the Securities and Exchange Commission s rules and forms.    

    Management s Report on
Internal Control Over Financial Reporting     

   Management, including the Corporation s Chief Executive
Officer, Principal Financial Officer and Principal Accounting Officer, is
responsible for establishing and maintaining adequate internal control over the
Corporation s financial reporting. Management conducted an evaluation of the
effectiveness of internal control over financial reporting based on criteria
established in    Internal Control - Integrated Framework (2013)    issued by
the Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of the Treadway Commission. Based on
this evaluation, management concluded that Exxon Mobil Corporation s internal
control over financial reporting was effective as of December 31, 2017.    

   PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP, an independent registered
public accounting firm, audited the effectiveness of the Corporation s internal
control over financial reporting as of December 31, 2017, as stated in
their report included in the Financial Section of this report.    

    Changes in Internal Control
Over Financial Reporting     

   There were no changes during the Corporation s last fiscal
quarter that materially affected, or are reasonably likely to materially
affect, the Corporation s internal control over financial reporting.    

Item 9B.     Other Information    

   None.   

31       

PART III   

   Item 10.     Directors, Executive Officers and Corporate
Governance   

  Reference is made to the section of this report titled
 Executive Officers of the Registrant [pursuant to Instruction 3 to Regulation
S-K, Item 401(b)] .  

  Incorporated by reference to the following from the
registrant s definitive proxy statement for the 2018 annual meeting of
shareholders (the  2018 Proxy Statement ):   

The section entitled  Election of Directors   

The portion entitled  Section 16(a) Beneficial
  Ownership Reporting Compliance  of the section entitled  Director and Executive
  Officer Stock Ownership   

The portions entitled  Director Qualifications ,
   Board Succession  and  Code of Ethics and Business Conduct  of the section
  entitled  Corporate Governance  and  

The  Audit Committee  portion,  Director
  Independence  portion and the membership table of the portions entitled
   Board Meetings and Annual Meeting Attendance  and  Board Committees  of the
  section entitled  Corporate Governance .  

Item 11.     Executive Compensation    

   Incorporated by reference to the sections entitled
 Director Compensation ,  Compensation Committee Report ,  Compensation
Discussion and Analysis ,  Executive Compensation Tables  and  Pay Ratio  of
the registrant s 2018 Proxy Statement.    

Item 12.     Security Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owners
and Management and Related Stockholder Matters    

   The information required under Item 403 of Regulation S-K
is incorporated by reference to the sections  Director and Executive Officer
Stock Ownership  and  Certain Beneficial Owners  of the registrant s 2018 Proxy
Statement.    

Equity Compensation Plan Information   

(a)    

(b)    

(c)    

Number of Securities   

Weighted-   

Remaining Available    

Average   

for Future Issuance   

Number of Securities   

Exercise Price    

Under Equity   

to be Issued Upon    

of Outstanding   

Compensation    

Exercise of   

Options,    

Plans [Excluding   

Outstanding Options,    

Warrants and    

Securities Reflected    

Plan Category   

Warrants and Rights   

Rights   

in Column (a)]   

Equity
  compensation plans approved by security holders  

37,374,885  

(1)   

-  

89,100,173  

(2)(3)   

Equity
  compensation plans not approved by security holders  

-  

-  

-  

Total  

37,374,885  

-  

89,100,173  

(1)   The number of restricted stock units
to be settled in shares.     

    (2)   Available shares can be granted in
the form of restricted stock, options, or other stock-based awards. Includes
88,595,473 shares available for award under the 2003 Incentive Program and 504,700
shares available for award under the 2004 Non Employee Director
Restricted Stock Plan.     

    (3)   Under the 2004 Non-Employee Director
Restricted Stock Plan approved by shareholders in May 2004, and the related
standing resolution adopted by the Board, each non-employee director
automatically receives 8,000 shares of restricted stock when first elected to
the Board and, if the director remains in office, an additional 2,500
restricted shares each following year. While on the Board, each non-employee
director receives the same cash dividends on restricted shares as a holder of
regular common stock, but the director is not allowed to sell the shares. The
restricted shares may be forfeited if the director leaves the Board early.     

32       

Item 13.     Certain Relationships
and Related Transactions, and Director Independence   

   Incorporated by reference to the portions entitled  Related
Person Transactions and Procedures  and  Director Independence  of the section
entitled  Corporate Governance  of the registrant s 2018 Proxy Statement.    

Item 14.     Principal Accounting
Fees and Services    

   Incorporated by reference to the portion entitled  Audit
Committee  of the section entitled  Corporate Governance  and the section
entitled  Ratification of Independent Auditors  of the registrant s 2018 Proxy
Statement.    

PART IV    

    Item 15.     Exhibits, Financial
Statement Schedules    

   (a)       (1) and
(2) Financial Statements:    

              See Table of Contents
of the Financial Section of this report.    

   (a)       (3)
Exhibits:    

              See Index to Exhibits
of this report.    

Item 16.     FORM 10-K SUMMARY    

   None.   

33       

FINANCIAL
SECTION   

TABLE OF CONTENTS   

Business Profile  

35   

Financial Information  

36   

Frequently Used Terms  

37   

Quarterly Information  

39   

Management s Discussion and Analysis
  of Financial Condition   
    and Results of Operations  

Functional Earnings  

40   

Forward-Looking Statements  

40   

Overview  

40   

Business Environment and Risk
  Assessment  

41   

Review of 2017 and 2016 Results  

44   

Liquidity and Capital Resources  

47   

Capital and Exploration Expenditures  

51   

Taxes  

52   

Environmental Matters  

53   

Market Risks, Inflation and Other
  Uncertainties  

53   

Recently Issued Accounting
  Standards                                                               

55   

Critical Accounting Estimates  

55   

Management s Report on Internal
  Control Over Financial Reporting  

60   

Report of Independent Registered
  Public Accounting Firm  

61   

Consolidated Financial Statements  

Statement of Income  

63   

Statement of Comprehensive Income  

64   

Balance Sheet  

65   

Statement of Cash Flows  

66   

Statement of Changes in Equity  

67   

Notes to Consolidated Financial
  Statements  

1. Summary of Accounting
  Policies  

68   

2. Accounting Changes  

72   

3. Miscellaneous
  Financial Information  

73   

4. Other Comprehensive
  Income Information  

74   

5. Cash Flow Information  

75   

6. Additional Working
  Capital Information  

75   

7. Equity Company
  Information  

76   

8. Investments, Advances
  and Long-Term Receivables  

78   

9. Property, Plant and
  Equipment and Asset Retirement Obligations  

78   

10. Accounting for Suspended
  Exploratory Well Costs  

80   

11. Leased Facilities  

82   

12. Earnings Per Share  

83   

13. Financial Instruments and
  Derivatives  

83   

14. Long-Term Debt  

84   

15. Incentive Program  

85   

16. Litigation and Other
  Contingencies  

86   

17. Pension and Other Postretirement
  Benefits  

88   

18. Disclosures about Segments and
  Related Information  

96   

19. Income and Other Taxes  

99   

20. Acquisitions  

103  

Supplemental Information on Oil and Gas Exploration
  and Production Activities  

104  

Operating Information  

119  

34       

BUSINESS PROFILE    

See Frequently Used Terms for a definition
and calculation of capital employed and return on average capital employed.    

(1)        
    Gas converted to
oil-equivalent at 6 million cubic feet = 1 thousand barrels.   

   (2)        
    Petroleum product and
chemical prime product sales data reported net of purchases/sales contracts
with the same counterparty.   

   (3)        
    Prime product sales are
total product sales including ExxonMobil s share of equity company volumes and
finished-product transfers to the Downstream.   

35       

FINANCIAL INFORMATION    

(1)   Effective December 31, 2017, the
Corporation revised its accounting policy election related to sales-based
taxes. See Note 2 to the financial statements, Accounting Changes. As a result,
Sales and other operating revenue excludes previously reported sales-based
taxes of $17,980 million for 2016, $19,634 million for 2015, $26,458 million
for 2014 and $27,797 million for 2013.     

    (2)   Debt net of cash, excluding
restricted cash.     

    (3)   Regular employees are defined as
active executive, management, professional, technical and wage employees who
work full time or part time for the Corporation and are covered by the
Corporation s benefit plans and programs.     

    (4)   CORS employees are employees of
company-operated retail sites.     

36       

FREQUENTLY USED TERMS     

Listed below are definitions of several of
ExxonMobil s key business and financial performance measures. These definitions
are provided to facilitate understanding of the terms and their calculation.    

    Cash Flow From Operations and Asset Sales     

   Cash
flow from operations and asset sales is the sum of the net cash provided by
operating activities and proceeds associated with sales of subsidiaries,
property, plant and equipment, and sales and returns of investments from the
Consolidated Statement of Cash Flows. This cash flow reflects the total sources
of cash from both operating the Corporation s assets and from the divesting of
assets. The Corporation employs a long-standing and regular disciplined review
process to ensure that all assets are contributing to the Corporation s
strategic objectives. Assets are divested when they are no longer meeting these
objectives or are worth considerably more to others. Because of the regular
nature of this activity, we believe it is useful for investors to consider
proceeds associated with asset sales together with cash provided by operating
activities when evaluating cash available for investment in the business and
financing activities, including shareholder distributions.    

Capital Employed     

   Capital
employed is a measure of net investment. When viewed from the perspective of
how the capital is used by the businesses, it includes ExxonMobil s net share
of property, plant and equipment and other assets less liabilities, excluding
both short-term and long-term debt. When viewed from the perspective of the
sources of capital employed in total for the Corporation, it includes
ExxonMobil s share of total debt and equity. Both of these views include
ExxonMobil s share of amounts applicable to equity companies, which the
Corporation believes should be included to provide a more comprehensive measure
of capital employed.    

37       

FREQUENTLY USED TERMS     

Return on Average Capital Employed    

   Return
on average capital employed (ROCE) is a performance measure ratio. From the
perspective of the business segments, ROCE is annual business segment earnings
divided by average business segment capital employed (average of beginning and
end-of-year amounts). These segment earnings include ExxonMobil s share of
segment earnings of equity companies, consistent with our capital employed
definition, and exclude the cost of financing. The Corporation s total ROCE is
net income attributable to ExxonMobil excluding the after-tax cost of
financing, divided by total corporate average capital employed. The Corporation
has consistently applied its ROCE definition for many years and views it as the
best measure of historical capital productivity in our capital-intensive,
long-term industry, both to evaluate management s performance and to demonstrate
to shareholders that capital has been used wisely over the long term.
Additional measures, which are more cash flow based, are used to make
investment decisions.    

38       

QUARTERLY INFORMATION     

(1)         Petroleum product and chemical prime
product sales data reported net of purchases/sales contracts with the same
counterparty.    

    (2)   Gas converted to oil-equivalent at
6 million cubic feet = 1 thousand barrels.     

    (3)   Effective December 31, 2017, the
Corporation revised its accounting policy election related to sales-based
taxes. See Note 2 to the financial statements, Accounting Changes. As a result,
Sales and other operating revenue excludes previously reported sales-based
taxes of $4,616 million for first quarter 2017, $4,799 million for second quarter
2017, $5,065 million for third quarter 2017, $4,073 million for first quarter
2016, $4,646 million for second quarter 2016, $4,644 million for third quarter
2016, $4,617 million for fourth quarter 2016, and $17,980 million for the year
2016.     

    (4)   Gross profit equals sales and other
operating revenue less estimated costs associated with products sold. Effective
December 31, 2017, the Corporation revised its accounting policy election
related to sales-based taxes, which reduced previously reported gross profit by
the amounts shown in note (3) above. See Note 2 to the financial statements,
Accounting Changes.    

    (5)   Fourth quarter 2017 included a U.S.
tax reform impact of $5,942 million and an impairment charge of $1,294 million.
Fourth quarter 2016 included an impairment charge of $2,135 million.    

    (6)   Computed using the average number of
shares outstanding during each period. The sum of the four quarters may not add
to the full year.     

The intraday
price range of ExxonMobil common stock is as reported on the composite tape of
the several U.S. exchanges where ExxonMobil common stock is traded. The
principal market where ExxonMobil common stock (XOM) is traded is the New York
Stock Exchange, although the stock is traded on other exchanges in and
outside the United States.    

   There
were 386,892 registered shareholders of ExxonMobil common stock at
December 31, 2017. At January 31, 2018, the registered shareholders
of ExxonMobil common stock numbered 384,745.    

   On January 31,
2018, the Corporation declared a $0.77 dividend per common share, payable March
9, 2018.   

39       

MANAGEMENT S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF
FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS    

References in this discussion to total
corporate earnings mean net income attributable to ExxonMobil (U.S. GAAP) from
the consolidated income statement. Unless otherwise indicated, references to
earnings, Upstream, Downstream, Chemical and Corporate and financing segment
earnings, and earnings per share are ExxonMobil s share after excluding amounts
attributable to noncontrolling interests.    

FORWARD-LOOKING STATEMENTS     

   Statements
in this discussion regarding expectations, plans and future events or
conditions are forward-looking statements. Actual future financial and
operating results or conditions, including demand growth and energy source mix;
government policies relating to climate change; project plans, capacities,
schedules and costs; production growth and mix; rates of field decline; asset
carrying values; proved reserves; financing sources; the resolution of
contingencies and uncertain tax positions; and environmental and capital
expenditures; could differ materially depending on a number of factors, such as
changes in the supply of and demand for crude oil, natural gas, and petroleum
and petrochemical products and resulting price impacts; the outcome of
commercial negotiations; the impact of fiscal and commercial terms; political
or regulatory events; the outcome of exploration and development projects, and
other factors discussed herein and in Item 1A. Risk Factors.    

   The
term  project  as used in this report can refer to a variety of different
activities and does not necessarily have the same meaning as in any government
payment transparency reports.   

OVERVIEW     

   The
following discussion and analysis of ExxonMobil s financial results, as well as
the accompanying financial statements and related notes to consolidated
financial statements to which they refer, are the responsibility of the
management of Exxon Mobil Corporation. The Corporation s accounting and
financial reporting fairly reflect its straightforward business model involving
the extracting, manufacturing and marketing of hydrocarbons and
hydrocarbon-based products. The Corporation s business model involves the
production (or purchase), manufacture and sale of physical products, and all
commercial activities are directly in support of the underlying physical
movement of goods.    

   ExxonMobil,
with its resource base, financial strength, disciplined investment approach and
technology portfolio, is well positioned to participate in substantial
investments to develop new energy supplies. The company s integrated business
model, with significant investments in Upstream, Downstream and Chemical
segments, reduces the Corporation s risk from changes in commodity prices. While
commodity prices are volatile on a short-term basis and depend on supply and
demand, ExxonMobil s investment decisions are based on our long-term business
outlook, using a disciplined approach in selecting and pursuing the most
attractive investment opportunities. The corporate plan is a fundamental annual
management process that is the basis for setting near-term operating and
capital objectives in addition to providing the longer-term economic
assumptions used for investment evaluation purposes. Volumes are based on
individual field production profiles, which are also updated annually. Price
ranges for crude oil, natural gas, refined products, and chemical products are
based on corporate plan assumptions developed annually by major region and are
utilized for investment evaluation purposes. Major investment opportunities are
evaluated over a range of economic scenarios. Once major investments are made,
a reappraisal process is completed to ensure relevant lessons are learned and
improvements are incorporated into future projects.    

40       

MANAGEMENT S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF
FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS    

BUSINESS ENVIRONMENT AND RISK ASSESSMENT    

    Long-Term Business Outlook     

   The
basis for the Long Term Business Outlook is the Corporation s annual    Outlook
for Energy   , which is used to help inform our long term business
strategies and investment plans. By 2040, the world s population is projected
to grow to approximately 9.2 billion people, or about 1.7 billion
more than in 2016. Coincident with this population increase, the Corporation
expects worldwide economic growth to average close to 3 percent per year.
As economies and populations grow, and as living standards improve for billions
of people, the need for energy will continue to rise. Even with significant
efficiency gains, global energy demand is projected to rise by about
25 percent from 2016 to 2040. This demand increase is expected to be
concentrated in developing countries (i.e., those that are not member nations
of the Organisation for Economic Co operation and Development).   

   As
expanding prosperity drives global energy demand higher, increasing use of
energy efficient technologies and practices as well as lower-emission
fuels will continue to help significantly reduce energy consumption and
emissions per unit of economic output over time. Substantial efficiency gains
are likely in all key aspects of the world s economy through 2040, affecting
energy requirements for transportation, power generation, industrial
applications, and residential and commercial needs.   

   Energy
for transportation   including cars, trucks, ships, trains and airplanes   is
expected to increase by about 30 percent from 2016 to 2040. The growth in
transportation energy demand is likely to account for approximately
60 percent of the growth in liquid fuels demand worldwide over this
period, even as liquids demand for light-duty vehicles is relatively flat to
2040, reflecting the impact of better fleet fuel economy and significant growth
in electric cars over the period. Nearly all the world s transportation fleets
are likely to continue to run on liquid fuels, which are abundant, widely
available, easy to transport, and provide a large quantity of energy in small
volumes.   

   Demand
for electricity around the world is likely to increase approximately
60 percent from 2016 to 2040, with developing countries accounting for
about 85 percent of the increase. Consistent with this projection, power
generation is expected to remain the largest and fastest growing major
segment of global primary energy demand. Meeting the expected growth in power
demand will require a diverse set of energy sources. The share of coal fired
generation is likely to decline substantially and approach 25 percent of
the world s electricity in 2040, versus nearly 40 percent in 2016, in part as a
result of policies to improve air quality as well as reduce greenhouse gas
emissions to address the risks of climate change. From 2016 to 2040, the amount
of electricity supplied using natural gas, nuclear power, and renewables is
likely to nearly double, and account for about 95 percent of the growth in
electricity supplies. Renewables in total, led by wind and solar, will account
for about half of the increase in electricity supplies worldwide over the
period to 2040, reaching nearly 35 percent of global electricity supplies by
2040. Natural gas and nuclear will also gain share over the period to 2040,
reaching about 25 percent and 12 percent of global electricity supplies
respectively by 2040. Supplies of electricity by energy type will reflect
significant differences across regions reflecting a wide range of factors
including the cost and availability of various energy supplies.   

   Liquid
fuels provide the largest share of global energy supplies today reflecting
broad-based availability, affordability, ease of distribution, and fitness as a
practical solution to meet a wide variety of needs. By 2040, global demand for
liquid fuels is projected to grow to approximately 118 million barrels of
oil equivalent per day, an increase of about 20 percent from 2016.
Much of this demand today is met by crude production from traditional
conventional sources; these supplies will remain important as significant
development activity is expected to offset much of the natural declines from
these fields. At the same time, a variety of emerging supply sources  
including tight oil, deepwater, oil sands, natural gas liquids and biofuels  
are expected to grow to help meet rising demand. The world s resource base is
sufficient to meet projected demand through 2040 as technology advances
continue to expand the availability of economic supply options. However, access
to resources and timely investments will remain critical to meeting global
needs with reliable, affordable supplies.   

   Natural
gas is a versatile fuel, suitable for a wide variety of applications, and it is
expected to grow the most of any primary energy type from 2016 to 2040, meeting
more than 35 percent of global energy demand growth. Global natural gas
demand is expected to rise nearly 40 percent from 2016 to 2040, with about
45 percent of that increase in the Asia Pacific region. Helping meet these
needs will be significant growth in supplies of unconventional gas   the
natural gas found in shale and other rock formations that was once considered
uneconomic to produce. In total, about 55 percent of the growth in natural
gas supplies is expected to be from unconventional sources. At the same time,
conventionally-produced natural gas is likely to remain the cornerstone of
supply, meeting about two thirds of global demand in 2040. Worldwide liquefied
natural gas (LNG) trade will expand significantly, meeting about one-third of
the increase in demand growth, with much of this supply expected to help meet
rising demand in Asia Pacific.   

   The
world s energy mix is highly diverse and will remain so through 2040. Oil is
expected to remain the largest source of energy with its share remaining close
to one third in 2040. Coal is currently the second largest source of
energy, but it is likely to lose that position to natural gas in the 2020-2025
timeframe. The share of natural gas is expected to reach 25 percent by
2040, while the share of coal falls to about 20 percent. Nuclear power is
projected to grow significantly, as many nations are likely to expand nuclear
capacity to address rising electricity needs as well as energy security and
environmental issues. Total renewable energy is likely to exceed
15 percent of global energy by 2040, with biomass, hydro and geothermal
contributing a combined share of more       

41       

MANAGEMENT S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF
FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS    

than
10 percent. Total energy supplied from wind, solar and biofuels is
expected to increase rapidly, growing nearly 250 percent from 2016 to
2040, when they will be about 5 percent of world energy.   

   The
Corporation anticipates that the world s available oil and gas resource base
will grow not only from new discoveries, but also from reserve increases in
previously discovered fields. Technology will underpin these increases. The
cost to develop and supply these resources will be significant. According to
the International Energy Agency s    World Energy Outlook 2017   , the
investment required to meet oil and natural gas supply requirements worldwide
over the period 2017 2040 will be about $21 trillion (New Policies
Scenario, measured in 2016 dollars) or approximately $860 billion per year
on average.   

   International
accords and underlying regional and national regulations covering greenhouse
gas emissions continue to evolve with uncertain timing and outcome, making it
difficult to predict their business impact. For many years, the Corporation has
taken into account policies established to reduce energy related
greenhouse gas emissions in its long-term    Outlook for Energy   . The
climate accord reached at the Conference of the Parties (COP 21) in Paris
set many new goals, and many related policies are still emerging. Our    Outlook    
reflects an environment with increasingly stringent climate policies and is
consistent with the aggregation of Nationally Determined Contributions which
were submitted by signatories to the United Nations Framework Convention on
Climate Change (UNFCCC) 2015 Paris Agreement. Our    Outlook     seeks to
identify potential impacts of climate related policies, which often
target specific sectors, by using various assumptions and tools including
application of a proxy cost of carbon to estimate potential impacts on consumer
demands. For purposes of the    Outlook   , a proxy cost on energy-related CO 2 
emissions is assumed to reach about $80 per tonne on average in 2040 in OECD
nations. China and other leading non-OECD nations are expected to trail OECD
policy initiatives. Nevertheless, as people and nations look for ways to reduce
risks of global climate change, they will continue to need practical solutions
that do not jeopardize the affordability or reliability of the energy they
need.    

   Practical
solutions to the world s energy and climate challenges will benefit from market
competition as well as well informed, well designed, and
transparent policy approaches that carefully weigh costs and benefits. Such
policies are likely to help manage the risks of climate change while also
enabling societies to pursue other high priority goals around the
world   including clean air and water, access to reliable, affordable
energy, and economic progress for all people. All practical and economically viable
energy sources, both conventional and unconventional, will need to be pursued
to continue meeting global energy demand, recognizing the scale and variety of
worldwide energy needs as well as the importance of expanding access to modern
energy to promote better standards of living for billions of people.    

   The
information provided in the Long Term Business Outlook includes
ExxonMobil s internal estimates and forecasts based upon internal data and
analyses as well as publicly available information from external sources
including the International Energy Agency.   

Upstream     

   ExxonMobil
continues to maintain a diverse portfolio of exploration and development opportunities,
which enables the Corporation to be selective, maximizing shareholder value and
mitigating political and technical risks. ExxonMobil s fundamental Upstream
business strategies guide our global exploration, development, production, and
gas and power marketing activities. These strategies include capturing material
and accretive opportunities to continually high-grade the resource portfolio,
selectively developing attractive oil and natural gas resources, developing and
applying high-impact technologies, and pursuing productivity and efficiency
gains. These strategies are underpinned by a relentless focus on operational
excellence, development of our employees, and investment in the communities
within which we operate.    

   As
future development projects and drilling activities bring new production
online, the Corporation expects a shift in the geographic mix and in the type
of opportunities from which volumes are produced. Oil equivalent production
from North America is expected to increase over the next several years based on
current investment plans, contributing over a third of total production.
Further, the proportion of our global production from resource types utilizing
specialized technologies such as unconventional drilling and production systems,
LNG, deepwater, and arctic, is a majority of production and is expected to grow
over the next few years. We do not anticipate that the expected change in the
geographic mix of production volumes, and in the types of opportunities from
which volumes will be produced, will have a material impact on the nature and
the extent of the risks disclosed in Item 1A. Risk Factors, or result in a
material change in our level of unit operating expenses.    

   The
Corporation anticipates several projects will come online over the next few
years providing additional production capacity. However, actual volumes will
vary from year to year due to the timing of individual project start-ups;
operational outages; reservoir performance; performance of enhanced oil
recovery projects; regulatory changes; the impact of fiscal and commercial
terms; asset sales; weather events; price effects on production sharing
contracts; changes in the amount and timing of capital investments that may
vary depending on the oil and gas price environment; and other factors
described in Item 1A. Risk Factors.   

   The
upstream industry environment continued to recover in 2017 as crude oil prices
increased in response to tighter supply and higher demand; gas prices also
improved with increasing demand, particularly in Asia. The markets for crude
oil and natural gas have a history of significant price volatility. ExxonMobil
believes prices over the long term will continue to be driven by market supply
and demand, with the demand side largely being a function of general economic
activities and levels of prosperity. On the       

42       

MANAGEMENT S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF
FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS    

supply
side, prices may be significantly impacted by political events, the actions of
OPEC and other large government resource owners, and other factors. To manage
the risks associated with price, ExxonMobil evaluates annual plans and major
investments across a range of price scenarios.    

   In
2017, our Upstream business produced 4 million oil equivalent
barrels per day. During the year, we added over 200,000 oil equivalent
barrels per day of gross production capacity through project start ups in
Eastern Canada (Hebron) and at our Sakhalin 1 operation in Russia (Odoptu
Stage 2). We added 2.7 billion oil equivalent barrels of proved
reserves, reflecting a 183 percent replacement of 2017 production. We also
made strategic acquisitions in Papua New Guinea, Mozambique, and U.S. tight
oil, and continued to have exploration success in Guyana.   

Downstream     

   ExxonMobil s
Downstream is a large, diversified business with refining, logistics, and
marketing complexes around the world. The Corporation has a presence in mature
markets in North America and Europe, as well as in the growing Asia Pacific
region.   

   ExxonMobil s
fundamental Downstream business strategies competitively position the company
across a range of market conditions. These strategies include targeting best in class
operations in all aspects of the business, maximizing value from advanced
technologies, capitalizing on integration across ExxonMobil businesses,
selectively investing for resilient, advantaged returns, operating efficiently
and effectively, and providing quality, valued and differentiated products and
services to customers.    

   ExxonMobil s
operating results, as noted in Item 2. Properties, reflect 22 refineries,
located in 14 countries, with distillation capacity of 4.9 million
barrels per day and lubricant basestock manufacturing capacity of 125
thousand barrels per day. ExxonMobil s fuels and lubes value chains have
significant global reach, with multiple channels to market serving a diverse
customer base. Our portfolio of world-renowned brands includes    Exxon   ,    Mobil   ,
   Esso     and    Mobil 1   .     

   Demand
growth remained strong in 2017, and margins strengthened during the year
drawing on previous high inventories, particularly in North America due to
Latin American demand and hurricane related refinery outages. North American
refineries also benefited from cost competitive feedstock and energy
supplies as the differential between Brent and WTI widened. Margins in Europe
and Asia strengthened versus 2016, with rising Asia demand and economic growth
in Europe. In the near term, we see variability in refining margins, with some
regions seeing weaker margins as new capacity additions are expected to outpace
growth in global demand for our products, which can also be affected by global
economic conditions and regulatory changes.   

   Refining
margins are largely driven by differences in commodity prices and are a
function of the difference between what a refinery pays for its raw materials
(primarily crude oil) and the market prices for the range of products produced
(primarily gasoline, heating oil, diesel oil, jet fuel and fuel oil). Crude oil
and many products are widely traded with published prices, including those
quoted on multiple exchanges around the world (e.g., New York Mercantile Exchange
and Intercontinental Exchange). Prices for these commodities are determined by
the global marketplace and are influenced by many factors, including global and
regional supply/demand balances, inventory levels, industry refinery
operations, import/export balances, currency fluctuations, seasonal demand,
weather, and political climate.    

   ExxonMobil s
long term outlook is that industry refining margins will remain subject
to intense competition as new capacity additions outpace the growth in global
demand. ExxonMobil s integration across the value chain, from refining to
marketing, enhances overall value in both fuels and lubricants businesses.   

   As
described in more detail in Item 1A. Risk Factors, proposed carbon policy and
other climate related regulations in many countries, as well as the
continued growth in biofuels mandates, could have negative impacts on the
Downstream business.    

   In
the fuels marketing business, margins remained relatively flat in 2017. In
2017, ExxonMobil expanded its branded retail site network and progressed the
multi year transition of the direct served (i.e., dealer, company operated)
retail network in portions of Europe to a more capital efficient Branded
Wholesaler model. The company s lubricants business continues to grow,
leveraging world class brands and integration with industry leading
basestock refining capability. ExxonMobil remains a market leader in the high value
synthetic lubricants sector, despite increasing competition.    

   The
Downstream portfolio is continually evaluated during all parts of the business
cycle, and numerous asset divestments have been made over the past decade. When
investing in the Downstream, ExxonMobil remains focused on selective and
resilient projects. At the end of 2017, construction was nearly complete on a
new delayed coker unit at the refinery in Antwerp, Belgium, to upgrade low value
bunker fuel into higher value diesel products. Construction also progressed on
a proprietary hydrocracker at the refinery in Rotterdam, Netherlands, to
produce higher value ultra-low sulfur diesel and Group II basestocks. In addition,
an expansion in Singapore is underway to support demand growth for finished
lubricants in key markets. Finally, ExxonMobil announced plans to increase
production of ultra-low sulfur fuels at the Beaumont, Texas, refinery by
approximately 40,000 barrels per day.   

43       

MANAGEMENT S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF
FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS    

Chemical    

   Worldwide
petrochemical demand remained strong in 2017, led by growing demand from Asia
Pacific manufacturers of industrial and consumer products. North America
continued to benefit from abundant supplies of natural gas and gas liquids,
providing both low cost feedstock and energy. Specialty product margins
moderated in 2017 with capacity additions exceeding demand growth.    

   ExxonMobil
sustained its competitive advantage through continued operational excellence,
investment and cost discipline, a balanced portfolio of products, and
integration with refining and upstream operations, all underpinned by
proprietary technology.   

   In
2017, we completed start up of the polyethylene derivative lines in Mont
Belvieu, Texas, and the adhesion hydrocarbon resin plant in Singapore.
Construction continued on major expansions at our Texas facilities, including a
new world-scale ethane cracker in Baytown and expansion of the polyethylene
plant in Beaumont, to capitalize on low-cost feedstock and energy supplies in
North America and to meet rapidly growing demand for premium polymers. The
company also continued construction on the specialty elastomers plant expansion
in Newport, Wales, with start up anticipated in 2018. Construction of a
new halobutyl rubber unit also progressed in Singapore to further extend our
specialty product capacity in Asia Pacific. In addition, the company completed
the acquisition of a petrochemical plant from Jurong Aromatics Corporation, to
complement the existing petrochemical complex in Singapore and meet growing
demand for chemicals products in Asia Pacific.    

2017     

   Upstream earnings were
$13,355 million, up $13,159 million from 2016. Higher realizations
increased earnings by $5.3 billion. Unfavorable volume and mix effects
decreased earnings by $440 million. All other items increased earnings by
$8.3 billion, primarily due to the $7.1 billion non cash impact
from U.S. tax reform, lower asset impairments of $659 million, lower expenses,
and gains from asset management activity. On an oil equivalent basis,
production of 4 million barrels per day was down 2 percent compared
to 2016. Liquids production of 2.3 million barrels per day decreased
82,000 barrels per day as field decline and lower entitlements were partly
offset by increased project volumes and work programs. Natural gas production
of 10.2 billion cubic feet per day increased 84 million cubic feet
per day from 2016 as project ramp up, primarily in Australia, was partly
offset by field decline and regulatory restrictions in the Netherlands. U.S.
Upstream earnings were $6,622 million in 2017, including $7.6 billion
of U.S. tax reform benefits and asset impairments of $521 million. Non U.S.
Upstream earnings were $6,733 million, including asset impairments of $983
million and unfavorable impacts of $480 million from U.S. tax reform.   

2016     

   Upstream earnings were $196 million
in 2016 and included asset impairment charges of $2,163 million mainly
relating to dry gas operations with undeveloped acreage in the Rocky Mountains
region of the U.S. Earnings were down $6,905 million from 2015. Lower
realizations decreased earnings by $5.3 billion. Favorable volume and mix
effects increased earnings by $130 million. The impairment charges reduced
earnings by $2.2 billion. All other items increased earnings by $440 million,
primarily due to lower expenses partly offset by the absence of favorable tax
items from the prior year. On an oil equivalent basis, production of 4.1 million
barrels per day was down slightly compared to 2015. Liquids production of 2.4 million
barrels per day increased 20,000 barrels per day with increased project
volumes, mainly in Canada, Indonesia and Nigeria, partly offset by field
decline, the impact from Canadian wildfires, and downtime notably in Nigeria.
Natural gas production of 10.1 billion cubic feet per day decreased 388 million
cubic feet per day from 2015 as field decline, regulatory restrictions in the
Netherlands and divestments were partly offset by higher project volumes and
work programs. U.S. Upstream earnings declined $3,072 million from 2015 to
a loss of $4,151 million, and included impairment charges of $2,163 million.
Earnings outside the U.S. were $4,347 million, down $3,833 million
from the prior year.   

44       

MANAGEMENT S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF
FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS    

Listed below are descriptions of ExxonMobil s volumes
reconciliation factors which are provided to facilitate understanding of the
terms.   

Entitlements - Net Interest      are changes to ExxonMobil s share of
production volumes caused by non-operational changes to volume determining
factors. These factors consist of net interest changes specified in Production
Sharing Contracts (PSCs) which typically occur when cumulative investment
returns or production volumes achieve defined thresholds, changes in equity
upon achieving pay-out in partner investment carry situations, equity
redeterminations as specified in venture agreements, or as a result of the
termination or expiry of a concession. Once a net interest change has occurred,
it typically will not be reversed by subsequent events, such as lower crude oil
prices.   

Entitlements - Price, Spend and Other      are changes to ExxonMobil s share of
production volumes resulting from temporary changes to non-operational
volume-determining factors. These factors include changes in oil and gas prices
or spending levels from one period to another. According to the terms of
contractual arrangements or government royalty regimes, price or spending
variability can increase or decrease royalty burdens and/or volumes
attributable to ExxonMobil. For example, at higher prices, fewer barrels are
required for ExxonMobil to recover its costs. These effects generally vary from
period to period with field spending patterns or market prices for oil and
natural gas. Such factors can also include other temporary changes in net
interest as dictated by specific provisions in production agreements.   

Quotas      are changes in ExxonMobil s allowable production arising
from production constraints imposed by countries which are members of the
Organization of the Petroleum Exporting Countries (OPEC). Volumes reported in
this category would have been readily producible in the absence of the quota.   

Divestments      are reductions in ExxonMobil s production
arising from commercial arrangements to fully or partially reduce equity in a
field or asset in exchange for financial or other economic consideration.    

Growth and Other      factors comprise all other operational
and non-operational factors not covered by the above definitions that may
affect volumes attributable to ExxonMobil. Such factors include, but are not
limited to, production enhancements from project and work program activities,
acquisitions including additions from asset exchanges, downtime, market demand,
natural field decline, and any fiscal or commercial terms that do not affect
entitlements.   

45       

MANAGEMENT S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF
FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS    

2017     

   Downstream earnings of $5,597 million
increased $1,396 million from 2016. Stronger refining and marketing
margins increased earnings by $1.5 billion, while volume and mix effects
decreased earnings by $30 million. All other items decreased earnings by
$40 million, driven by the absence of a $904 million gain from the
Canadian retail assets sale, and Hurricane Harvey related expenses, which were
mostly offset by $618 million of U.S. tax reform impacts and non U.S.
asset management gains in the current year. Petroleum product sales of 5.5 million
barrels per day were 48,000 barrels per day higher than 2016. Earnings from
the U.S. Downstream were $1,948 million, including favorable U.S. tax
reform impacts of $618 million. Non U.S. Downstream earnings were $3,649 million,
compared to $3,107 million in the prior year.   

2016     

   Downstream earnings of $4,201 million
decreased $2,356 million from 2015. Weaker refining and marketing margins
decreased earnings by $3.8 billion, while volume and mix effects increased
earnings by $560 million. All other items increased earnings by $920 million,
mainly reflecting gains from divestments, notably in Canada. Petroleum product
sales of 5.5 million barrels per day were 272,000 barrels per day
lower than 2015 mainly reflecting the divestment of refineries in California
and Louisiana. U.S. Downstream earnings were $1,094 million, a decrease of
$807 million from 2015. Non-U.S. Downstream earnings were $3,107 million,
down $1,549 million from the prior year.   

2017     

   Chemical earnings of $4,518 million
decreased $97 million from 2016. Weaker margins decreased earnings by
$260 million. Volume and mix effects increased earnings by $100 million.
All other items increased earnings by $60 million, primarily due to U.S.
tax reform of $335 million and improved inventory effects, partially offset by
higher expenses from increased turnaround activity and new business growth.
Prime product sales of 25.4 million metric tons were up 495,000 metric
tons from 2016. U.S. Chemical earnings were $2,190 million in 2017,
including favorable U.S. tax reform impacts of $335 million. Non U.S.
Chemical earnings of $2,328 million were $411 million lower than
prior year.   

2016     

   Chemical earnings of $4,615 million
increased $197 million from 2015. Stronger margins increased earnings by
$440 million. Favorable volume and mix effects increased earnings by $100 million.
All other items decreased earnings by $340 million, primarily due to the
absence of U.S. asset management gains. Prime product sales of 24.9 million
metric tons were up 212,000 metric tons from 2015. U.S. Chemical earnings
were $1,876 million, down $510 million from 2015 reflecting the
absence of asset management gains. Non-U.S. Chemical earnings of $2,739 million
were $707 million higher than the prior year.   

46       

MANAGEMENT S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF
FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS    

2017     

   Corporate and financing expenses were $3,760 million
in 2017 compared to $1,172 million in 2016, with the increase mainly due
to unfavorable impacts of $2.1 billion from U.S. tax reform and the
absence of favorable non-U.S. tax items.   

2016     

   Corporate
and financing expenses of $1,172 million in 2016 were $754 million
lower than 2015 mainly reflecting favorable non U.S. tax items.    

Total
cash and cash equivalents were $3.2 billion at the end of 2017, down $0.5
billion from the prior year. The major sources of funds in 2017 were net income
including noncontrolling interests of $19.8 billion, the adjustment for the
noncash provision of $19.9 billion for depreciation and depletion,
proceeds from asset sales of $3.1 billion, and other investing activities
including collection of advances of $2.1 billion. The major uses of funds included
spending for additions to property, plant and equipment of $15.4 billion,
dividends to shareholders of $13.0 billion, the adjustment for noncash deferred
income tax credits of $8.6 billion, and additional investments and advances of
$5.5 billion.    

   Total
cash and cash equivalents were $3.7 billion at the end of 2016, essentially in
line with the prior year. The major sources of funds in 2016 were net income
including noncontrolling interests of $8.4 billion, the adjustment for the
noncash provision of $22.3 billion for depreciation and depletion,
proceeds from asset sales of $4.3 billion, and a net debt increase of $4.3
billion. The major uses of funds included spending for additions to property,
plant and equipment of $16.2 billion, dividends to shareholders of
$12.5 billion, the adjustment for noncash deferred income tax credits of
$4.4 billion, and a change in working capital, excluding cash and debt, of $1.4
billion.    

   The
Corporation has access to significant capacity of long-term and short-term
liquidity. Internally generated funds are generally expected to cover financial
requirements, supplemented by short-term and long-term debt as required. On
December 31, 2017, the Corporation had unused committed short-term lines of credit
of $5.4 billion and unused committed long-term lines of credit of
$0.2 billion. Cash that may be temporarily available as surplus to the
Corporation s immediate needs is carefully managed through counterparty quality
and investment guidelines to ensure it is secure and readily available to meet
the Corporation s cash requirements, and to optimize returns.    

   To
support cash flows in future periods the Corporation will need to continually
find or acquire and develop new fields, and continue to develop and apply new
technologies and recovery processes to existing fields, in order to maintain or
increase production. After a period of production at plateau rates, it is the
nature of oil and gas fields eventually to produce at declining rates for the
remainder of their economic life. Averaged over all the Corporation s existing
oil and gas fields and without new projects, ExxonMobil s production is
expected to decline at an average of approximately 3 percent per year over the
next few years. Decline rates can vary widely by individual field due to a
number of factors, including, but not limited to, the type of reservoir, fluid
properties, recovery mechanisms, work activity, and age of the field.
Furthermore, the Corporation s net interest in production for individual fields
can vary with price and the impact of fiscal and commercial terms.    

47       

MANAGEMENT S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF
FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS    

The Corporation has long been successful
at offsetting the effects of natural field decline through disciplined
investments in quality opportunities and project execution. The Corporation
anticipates several projects will come online over the next few years providing
additional production capacity. However, actual volumes will vary from year to
year due to the timing of individual project start ups; operational
outages; reservoir performance; performance of enhanced oil recovery projects;
regulatory changes; the impact of fiscal and commercial terms; asset sales;
weather events; price effects on production sharing contracts; and changes in
the amount and timing of investments that may vary depending on the oil and gas
price environment. The Corporation s cash flows are also highly dependent on
crude oil and natural gas prices. Please refer to Item 1A. Risk Factors
for a more complete discussion of risks.    

   The
Corporation s financial strength enables it to make large, long-term capital
expenditures. Capital and exploration expenditures in 2017 were $23.1 billion,
reflecting the Corporation s continued active investment program. The
Corporation anticipates an investment level of $24 billion in 2018.   

   Actual
spending could vary depending on the progress of individual projects and
property acquisitions. The Corporation has a large and diverse portfolio of
development projects and exploration opportunities, which helps mitigate the
overall political and technical risks of the Corporation s Upstream segment and
associated cash flow. Further, due to its financial strength, debt capacity and
diverse portfolio of opportunities, the risk associated with failure or delay
of any single project would not have a significant impact on the Corporation s
liquidity or ability to generate sufficient cash flows for operations and its
fixed commitments.   

Cash Flow from
Operating Activities    

2017     

   Cash provided by operating activities
totaled $30.1 billion in 2017, $8.0 billion higher than 2016. The major source
of funds was net income including noncontrolling interests of $19.8 billion, an
increase of $11.5 billion. The noncash provision for depreciation and depletion
was $19.9 billion, down $2.4 billion from the prior year. The adjustment for
deferred income tax credits was $8.6 billion, compared to $4.4 billion in 2016.
Changes in operational working capital, excluding cash and debt, decreased cash
in 2017 by $0.6 billion.   

2016     

   Cash provided by operating activities
totaled $22.1 billion in 2016, $8.3 billion lower than 2015. The major source
of funds was net income including noncontrolling interests of $8.4 billion, a
decrease of $8.2 billion. The noncash provision for depreciation and depletion
was $22.3 billion, up $4.3 billion from the prior year. The adjustment for net
gains on asset sales was $1.7 billion while the adjustment for deferred income
tax credits was $4.4 billion. Changes in operational working capital, excluding
cash and debt, decreased cash in 2016 by $1.4 billion.   

Cash Flow from
Investing Activities    

2017    

   Cash used in
investing activities netted to $15.7 billion in 2017, $3.3 billion higher than
2016. Spending for property, plant and equipment of $15.4 billion decreased
$0.8 billion from 2016. Proceeds associated with sales of subsidiaries,
property, plant and equipment, and sales and returns of investments of $3.1
billion compared to $4.3 billion in 2016. Additional investments and advances
were $4.1 billion higher in 2017, while proceeds from other investing
activities including collection of advances increased by $1.2 billion.   

2016     

   Cash used in investing activities netted to $12.4 billion
in 2016, $11.4 billion lower than 2015. Spending for property, plant and
equipment of $16.2 billion decreased $10.3 billion from 2015. Proceeds
associated with sales of subsidiaries, property, plant and equipment, and sales
and returns of investments of $4.3 billion compared to $2.4 billion in 2015.
Additional investments and advances were $0.8 billion higher in 2016.   

48       

MANAGEMENT S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF
FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS    

Cash Flow from Financing Activities    

2017     

   Cash
used in financing activities was $15.1 billion in 2017, $5.8 billion higher
than 2016. Dividend payments on common shares increased to $3.06 per share from
$2.98 per share and totaled $13.0 billion. Total debt decreased $0.4 billion to
$42.3 billion at year end. The reduction was principally driven by net
repayments of $1.0 billion, and included short-term debt repayments of $5.0
billion that were partly offset by additions in commercial paper and other debt
of $4.0 billion.   

   ExxonMobil
share of equity increased $20.4 billion to $187.7 billion. The addition to
equity for earnings was $19.7 billion. This was partly offset by reductions for
distributions to ExxonMobil shareholders of $13.0 billion, all in the form of
dividends. Foreign exchange translation effects of $5.0 billion for the weaker
U.S. currency and a $1.0 billion change in the funded status of the
postretirement benefits reserves both increased equity. Shares issued for
acquisitions added $7.8 billion to equity.    

   During 2017, Exxon Mobil Corporation acquired
10 million shares of its common stock for the treasury. Purchases were made to offset
shares or units settled in shares issued in conjunction with the company s
benefit plans and programs. Shares outstanding increased from 4,148 million to
4,239 million at the end of 2017, mainly due to a total of 96 million shares
issued for the acquisitions of InterOil Corporation and of companies that hold
acreage in the Permian basin.   

2016     

   Cash
used in financing activities was $9.3 billion in 2016, $2.3 billion higher than
2015. Dividend payments on common shares increased to $2.98 per share from
$2.88 per share and totaled $12.5 billion. Total debt increased $4.1 billion to
$42.8 billion at year end. The first quarter issuance of $12.0 billion in
long-term debt was partly offset by repayments of $8.0 billion in commercial
paper and other short-term debt during the year.   

   ExxonMobil
share of equity decreased $3.5 billion to $167.3 billion. The addition to
equity for earnings was $7.8 billion. This was offset by reductions for
distributions to ExxonMobil shareholders of $12.5 billion, all in the form of
dividends. Foreign exchange translation effects of $0.3 billion for the
stronger U.S. currency reduced equity, while a $1.6 billion change in the
funded status of the postretirement benefits reserves increased equity.    

   During 2016, Exxon Mobil Corporation acquired
12 million shares of its common stock for the treasury. Purchases were made to offset
shares or units settled in shares issued in conjunction with the company s benefit
plans and programs. Shares outstanding were reduced from 4,156 million to 4,148
million at the end of 2016.   

49       

MANAGEMENT S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF
FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS    

Commitments    

   Set
forth below is information about the outstanding commitments of the
Corporation s consolidated subsidiaries at December 31, 2017. The table combines
data from the Consolidated Balance Sheet and from individual notes to the
Consolidated Financial Statements.    

This
table excludes commodity purchase obligations (volumetric commitments but no
fixed or minimum price) which are resold shortly after purchase, either in an
active, highly liquid market or under long-term, unconditional sales contracts
with similar pricing terms. Examples include long-term, noncancelable LNG and
natural gas purchase commitments and commitments to purchase refinery products
at market prices. Inclusion of such commitments would not be meaningful in
assessing liquidity and cash flow, because these purchases will be offset in
the same periods by cash received from the related sales transactions. The
table also excludes unrecognized tax benefits totaling $8.8 billion as of
December 31, 2017, because the Corporation is unable to make reasonably
reliable estimates of the timing of cash settlements with the respective taxing
authorities. Further details on the unrecognized tax benefits can be found in  Note
19: Income and Other Taxes .   

   Notes:    

    (1)   Includes capitalized lease
obligations of $1,327 million.     

    (2)   The amount due in one year is
included in Notes and loans payable of $17,930 million.     

    (3)   Asset retirement obligations are
primarily upstream asset removal costs at the completion of field life.     

    (4)   The amount by which the benefit
obligations exceeded the fair value of fund assets for certain U.S. and
non-U.S. pension and other postretirement plans at year-end. The payments by
period include expected contributions to funded pension plans in 2018 and
estimated benefit payments for unfunded plans in all years.     

    (5)   Minimum commitments for operating
leases, shown on an undiscounted basis, cover drilling equipment, tankers,
service stations and other properties. Total includes $611 million related to
drilling rigs and related equipment.    

    (6)   Take-or-pay obligations are noncancelable,
long-term commitments for goods and services. Unconditional purchase
obligations are those long-term commitments that are noncancelable or
cancelable only under certain conditions, and that third parties have used to
secure financing for the facilities that will provide the contracted goods or
services. The undiscounted obligations of $26,491 million mainly pertain to
pipeline, manufacturing supply and terminal agreements.     

    (7)   Firm capital commitments represent
legally binding payment obligations to third parties where agreements
specifying all significant terms have been executed for the construction and
purchase of fixed assets and other permanent investments. In certain cases
where the Corporation executes contracts requiring commitments to a work scope,
those commitments have been included to the extent that the amounts and timing
of payments can be reliably estimated. Firm capital commitments, shown on an
undiscounted basis, totaled $9.6 billion, including $1.9 billion in the U.S.
Firm capital commitments for the non-U.S. Upstream of $7.2 billion were
primarily associated with projects in the United Arab Emirates, Africa, United
Kingdom, Guyana, Malaysia, Norway, Canada and Australia. The Corporation
expects to fund the majority of these commitments with internally generated
funds, supplemented by short-term and long-term debt as required.    

50       

MANAGEMENT S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF
FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS    

Guarantees    

   The Corporation and certain of its consolidated
subsidiaries were contingently liable at December 31, 2017, for guarantees
relating to notes, loans and performance under contracts (Note 16). Where
guarantees for environmental remediation and other similar matters do not
include a stated cap, the amounts reflect management s estimate of the maximum
potential exposure. These guarantees are not reasonably likely to have a
material effect on the Corporation s financial condition, changes in financial
condition, revenues or expenses, results of operations, liquidity, capital
expenditures or capital resources.    

Financial Strength     

   On December 31, 2017, the
Corporation s unused short-term committed lines of credit totaled $5.4 billion
(Note 6) and unused long-term committed lines of credit totaled $0.2 billion
(Note 14). The table below shows the Corporation s fixed-charge coverage
and consolidated debt-to-capital ratios. The data demonstrates the
Corporation s creditworthiness.    

Management views the Corporation s
financial strength, as evidenced by the above financial ratios and other
similar measures, to be a competitive advantage of strategic importance. The
Corporation s sound financial position gives it the opportunity to access the
world s capital markets in the full range of market conditions, and enables the
Corporation to take on large, long-term capital commitments in the pursuit of
maximizing shareholder value.    

Litigation and Other Contingencies     

   As
discussed in Note 16, a variety of claims have been made against ExxonMobil and
certain of its consolidated subsidiaries in a number of pending lawsuits. Based
on a consideration of all relevant facts and circumstances, the Corporation
does not believe the ultimate outcome of any currently pending lawsuit against
ExxonMobil will have a material adverse effect upon the Corporation s
operations, financial condition, or financial statements taken as a whole.
There are no events or uncertainties beyond those already included in reported
financial information that would indicate a material change in future operating
results or financial condition. Refer to Note 16 for additional information on
legal proceedings and other contingencies.    

Capital
and exploration expenditures in 2017 were $23.1 billion, as the Corporation
continued to pursue opportunities to find and produce new supplies of oil and
natural gas to meet global demand for energy. The Corporation anticipates an investment
level of $24 billion in 2018. Actual spending could vary depending on the
progress of individual projects and property acquisitions.   

   Upstream
spending of $16.7 billion in 2017 was up 15 percent from 2016. Investments in
2017 included acquisitions in Mozambique and Brazil, U.S. onshore drilling activity
and global development projects. Development projects typically take several
years from the time of recording proved undeveloped reserves to the start of
production and can exceed five years for large and complex projects. The
percentage of proved developed reserves was 66 percent of total proved reserves
at year end 2017, and has been over 60 percent for the last ten years.   

   Capital
investments in the Downstream totaled $2.5 billion in 2017, consistent with 2016,
reflecting global refining project spending. Chemical capital expenditures of $3.8
billion increased $1.6 billion from 2016 mainly resulting from the acquisition
of a large-scale aromatics plant in Singapore.   

51       

MANAGEMENT S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF
FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS    

2017     

   Total taxes on the Corporation s income
statement were $31.3 billion in 2017, an increase of $0.3 billion from 2016.
Income tax expense, both current and deferred, was a credit of $1.2 billion
compared to a credit of $0.4 billion in 2016, with the U.S. tax reform impact
of $5.9 billion partially offset by higher pre-tax income. The effective tax
rate, which is calculated based on consolidated company income taxes and
ExxonMobil s share of equity company income taxes, was 5 percent compared to 13
percent in the prior year due primarily to the impact of U.S. tax reform. Total
other taxes and duties of $32.5 billion in 2017 increased $1.1 billion.   

2016     

   Total
taxes were $31.0 billion in 2016, a decrease of $7.2 billion from 2015. Income
tax expense, both current and deferred, was a credit of $0.4 billion, $5.8
billion lower than 2015, reflecting lower pre-tax income. The effective tax
rate, which is calculated based on consolidated company income taxes and
ExxonMobil s share of equity company income taxes, was 13 percent compared to
34 percent in the prior year due primarily to a lower share of earnings in
higher tax jurisdictions, favorable one-time items, and the impact of the U.S.
Upstream impairment charge. Total other taxes and duties of $31.4 billion in
2016 decreased $1.5 billion.   

U.S.
Tax Reform    

   Following
the December 22, 2017, enactment of the U.S. Tax Cuts and Jobs Act, in
accordance with Accounting Standard Codification Topic 740    (Income Taxes)   
and following the guidance outlined in the SEC Staff Accounting Bulletin No.
118, the Corporation has included reasonable estimates of the income tax
effects of the changes in tax law and tax rate. These include amounts for the remeasurement
of the deferred income tax balance from the reduction in the corporate tax rate
from 35 to 21 percent and the mandatory deemed repatriation of undistributed
foreign earnings and profits. ExxonMobil s significant historical investments
in the United States have created large deferred income tax liabilities.
Remeasurement of these deferred income tax liabilities from the 35 percent rate
to 21 percent results in a one-time non-cash benefit to earnings. The
Corporation has paid taxes on earnings outside the United States at tax rates
on average above the historical U.S. rate of 35 percent. As a result, the
deemed repatriation tax does not create a significant tax impact for
ExxonMobil. The impact of tax law changes on the Corporation s financial
statements could differ from its estimates due to further analysis of the new
law, regulatory guidance, technical corrections legislation, or guidance under
U.S. GAAP. If significant changes occur, the Corporation will provide updated
information in connection with future regulatory filings.   

   The 21 percent corporate tax rate will
reduce the tax cost of U.S. earnings from U.S. investments, although the
savings may be somewhat offset by other provisions that could raise the
Corporation s future tax liability. Within the normal course of business, other
provisions of the tax law that are effective in 2018 are not expected to have a
material effect on operating results or financial condition.    

52       

MANAGEMENT S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF
FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS    

ENVIRONMENTAL MATTERS   

Throughout
ExxonMobil s businesses, new and ongoing measures are taken to prevent and
minimize the impact of our operations on air, water and ground. These
include a significant investment in refining infrastructure and technology to
manufacture clean fuels, as well as projects to monitor and reduce
nitrogen oxide, sulfur oxide and greenhouse gas emissions, and expenditures for
asset retirement obligations. Using definitions and guidelines established by
the American Petroleum Institute, ExxonMobil s 2017 worldwide environmental
expenditures for all such preventative and remediation steps, including
ExxonMobil s share of equity company expenditures, were $4.7 billion, of
which $3.3 billion were included in expenses with the remainder in capital
expenditures. The total cost for such activities is expected to increase to
approximately $5 billion in 2018 and 2019. Capital expenditures are
expected to account for approximately 30 percent of the total.   

    Environmental Liabilities     

   The Corporation accrues environmental
liabilities when it is probable that obligations have been incurred and the
amounts can be reasonably estimated. This policy applies to assets or
businesses currently owned or previously disposed. ExxonMobil has accrued
liabilities for probable environmental remediation obligations at various
sites, including multiparty sites where the U.S. Environmental Protection
Agency has identified ExxonMobil as one of the potentially responsible parties.
The involvement of other financially responsible companies at these multiparty
sites could mitigate ExxonMobil s actual joint and several liability exposure.
At present, no individual site is expected to have losses material to
ExxonMobil s operations or financial condition. Consolidated company provisions
made in 2017 for environmental liabilities were $302 million ($665 million
in 2016) and the balance sheet reflects accumulated liabilities of $872 million
as of December 31, 2017, and $852 million as of December 31, 2016.

MARKET RISKS, INFLATION AND OTHER
UNCERTAINTIES     

Crude
oil, natural gas, petroleum product and chemical prices have fluctuated in
response to changing market forces. The impacts of these price fluctuations on
earnings from Upstream, Downstream and Chemical operations have varied. In the
Upstream, a $1 per barrel change in the weighted-average realized
price of oil would have approximately a $425 million annual after-tax effect on
Upstream consolidated plus equity company earnings. Similarly, a $0.10 per thousand
cubic feet change in the worldwide average gas realization would have
approximately a $165 million annual after-tax effect on Upstream consolidated
plus equity company earnings. For any given period, the extent of actual
benefit or detriment will be dependent on the price movements of individual
types of crude oil, taxes and other government take impacts, price adjustment
lags in long-term gas contracts, and crude and gas production volumes.
Accordingly, changes in benchmark prices for crude oil and natural gas only
provide broad indicators of changes in the earnings experienced in any
particular period.    

   In
the very competitive downstream and chemical environments, earnings are
primarily determined by margin capture rather than absolute price levels of
products sold. Refining margins are a function of the difference between what a
refiner pays for its raw materials (primarily crude oil) and the market prices
for the range of products produced. These prices in turn depend on global and
regional supply/demand balances, inventory levels, refinery operations,
import/export balances and weather.    

53       

MANAGEMENT S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF
FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS    

The global
energy markets can give rise to extended periods in which market conditions are
adverse to one or more of the Corporation s businesses. Such conditions, along
with the capital-intensive nature of the industry and very long lead times
associated with many of our projects, underscore the importance of maintaining
a strong financial position. Management views the Corporation s financial
strength as a competitive advantage.    

   In
general, segment results are not dependent on the ability to sell and/or
purchase products to/from other segments. Instead, where such sales take place,
they are the result of efficiencies and competitive advantages of integrated
refinery/chemical complexes. Additionally, intersegment sales are at
market-based prices. The products bought and sold between segments can also be
acquired in worldwide markets that have substantial liquidity, capacity and
transportation capabilities. About 35 percent of the Corporation s intersegment
sales represent Upstream production sold to the Downstream. Other intersegment
sales include those between refineries and chemical plants related to raw
materials, feedstocks and finished products.    

   Although
price levels of crude oil and natural gas may rise or fall significantly over
the short to medium term due to global economic conditions, political events, decisions
by OPEC and other major government resource owners and other factors, industry
economics over the long term will continue to be driven by market supply and
demand. Accordingly, the Corporation evaluates the viability of its major investments
over a range of prices.   

   The
Corporation has an active asset management program in which underperforming
assets are either improved to acceptable levels or considered for divestment.
The asset management program includes a disciplined, regular review to ensure
that all assets are contributing to the Corporation s strategic objectives
resulting in an efficient capital base.    

Risk Management     

   The
Corporation s size, strong capital structure, geographic diversity and the
complementary nature of the Upstream, Downstream and Chemical businesses reduce
the Corporation s enterprise-wide risk from changes in interest rates, currency
rates and commodity prices. In addition, the Corporation uses commodity-based
contracts, including derivatives, to manage commodity price risk and for
trading purposes. Credit risk associated with the Corporation s derivative
position is mitigated by several factors, including the use of derivative
clearing exchanges and the quality of and financial limits placed on derivative
counterparties. The Corporation believes that there are no material market or
credit risks to the Corporation s financial position, results of operations or
liquidity as a result of the derivatives described in Note 13. The Corporation
maintains a system of controls that includes the authorization, reporting and
monitoring of derivative activity.    

   The
Corporation is exposed to changes in interest rates, primarily on its
short-term debt and the portion of long-term debt that carries floating
interest rates. The impact of a 100-basis-point change in interest rates
affecting the Corporation s debt would not be material to earnings, cash flow
or fair value. The Corporation has access to significant capacity of long-term
and short-term liquidity. Internally generated funds are expected to cover the
majority of financial requirements, supplemented by long-term and short-term
debt. Some joint-venture partners are dependent on the credit markets, and
their funding ability may impact the development pace of joint-venture
projects.    

   The
Corporation conducts business in many foreign currencies and is subject to
exchange rate risk on cash flows related to sales, expenses, financing and
investment transactions. Fluctuations in exchange rates are often offsetting
and the impacts on ExxonMobil s geographically and functionally diverse
operations are varied. The Corporation makes limited use of currency exchange
contracts to mitigate the impact of changes in currency values, and exposures
related to the Corporation s limited use of the currency exchange contracts are
not material.    

Inflation and Other Uncertainties     

   The
general rate of inflation in many major countries of operation has remained
moderate over the past few years, and the associated impact on non-energy costs
has generally been mitigated by cost reductions from efficiency and
productivity improvements. Beginning several years ago, an extended period of
increased demand for certain services and materials resulted in higher
operating and capital costs. Since then, multiple market changes, including
lower oil prices and reduced upstream industry activity, have contributed to
lower prices for oilfield services and materials. The Corporation monitors
market trends and works to minimize costs in all commodity price environments through
its economies of scale in global procurement and its efficient project
management practices.    

54       

MANAGEMENT S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF
FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS    

RECENTLY ISSUED ACCOUNTING STANDARDS    

     Effective January 1, 2018, ExxonMobil adopted
the Financial Accounting Standards Board s standard,    Revenue from Contracts
with Customers,    as amended. The standard establishes a single revenue
recognition model for all contracts with customers, eliminates industry and
transaction specific requirements, and expands disclosure requirements. The
standard was adopted using the Modified Retrospective method, under which prior
year results are not restated, but supplemental information on the impact of
the new standard must be provided for 2018 results, if material. The standard
is not expected to have a material impact on the Corporation s financial
statements. The cumulative effect of adoption of the new standard is de
minimis.   

   Effective
January 1, 2018, ExxonMobil adopted the Financial Accounting Standards Board s
Update,    Financial Instruments Overall (Subtopic 825-10): Recognition and
Measurement of Financial Assets and Financial Liabilities   . The standard
requires investments in equity securities other than consolidated subsidiaries
and equity method investments to be measured at fair value with changes in the
fair value recognized through net income. Companies can elect a modified
approach for equity securities that do not have a readily determinable fair
value. The standard is not expected to have a material impact on the
Corporation s financial statements.   

   Effective
January 1, 2018, ExxonMobil adopted the Financial Accounting Standards Board s
Update,    Compensation   Retirement Benefits (Topic 715): Improving the
Presentation of Net Periodic Pension Cost and Net Periodic Postretirement
Benefit Cost   . The update requires the service cost component of net benefit
costs to be reported in the same line of the income statement as other compensation
costs and the other components of net benefit costs (non-service costs) to be
presented separately from the service cost component. Additionally, only the
service cost component of net benefit costs is eligible for capitalization. The
Corporation expects to add a new line  Non-service pension and postretirement
benefit expense  to its Consolidated Statement of Income and expects to include
all of these costs in its Corporate and financing segment. This line would
reflect the non-service costs that were previously included in  Production and
manufacturing expenses  and  Selling, general and administrative expenses . The
update is not expected to have a material impact on the Corporation s financial
statements.    

   Effective
January 1, 2019, ExxonMobil will adopt the Financial Accounting Standards
Board s standard,    Leases   . The standard requires all leases with an
initial term greater than one year be recorded on the balance sheet as an asset
and a lease liability. The Corporation is gathering and evaluating data and
recently acquired a system to facilitate implementation. We are progressing an
assessment of the magnitude of the effect on the Corporation s financial
statements.     

CRITICAL ACCOUNTING ESTIMATES     

   The Corporation s accounting and financial
reporting fairly reflect its straightforward business model involving the
extracting, refining and marketing of hydrocarbons and hydrocarbon-based
products. The preparation of financial statements in conformity with U.S.
Generally Accepted Accounting Principles (GAAP) requires management to make
estimates and judgments that affect the reported amounts of assets,
liabilities, revenues and expenses and the disclosure of contingent assets and
liabilities. The Corporation s accounting policies are summarized in Note 1.    

Oil and Natural Gas Reserves    

  The
estimation of proved reserves is an ongoing process based on rigorous technical
evaluations, commercial and market assessments and detailed analysis of well
information such as flow rates and reservoir pressure declines, among other
factors. The estimation of proved reserves is controlled by the Corporation
through long-standing approval guidelines. Reserve changes are made within a
well-established, disciplined process driven by senior level geoscience and
engineering professionals, assisted by the Global Reserves group which has
significant technical experience, culminating in reviews with and approval by
senior management. Notably, the Corporation does not use specific quantitative
reserve targets to determine compensation. Key features of the reserve
estimation process are covered in Disclosure of Reserves in Item 2.   

  Oil and natural
gas reserves include both proved and unproved reserves.   

Proved oil and natural gas
reserves are determined in accordance with Securities and Exchange Commission
(SEC) requirements. Proved reserves are those quantities of oil and natural gas
which, by analysis of geoscience and engineering data, can be estimated with
reasonable certainty to be economically producible under existing economic and
operating conditions and government regulations. Proved reserves are determined
using the average of first-of-month oil and natural gas prices during the
reporting year.  

  Proved
reserves can be further subdivided into developed and undeveloped reserves.
Proved developed reserves include amounts which are expected to be recovered
through existing wells with existing equipment and operating methods. Proved
undeveloped reserves include amounts expected to be recovered from new wells on
undrilled proved acreage or from existing wells where a relatively major
expenditure is required for completion. Proved undeveloped reserves are
recognized only if a development plan has been adopted indicating that the
reserves are scheduled to be drilled within five years, unless specific
circumstances support a longer period of time.  

55       

MANAGEMENT S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF
FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS    

The percentage of proved developed reserves was 66
percent of total proved reserves at year-end 2017 (including both consolidated
and equity company reserves), a reduction from 69 percent in 2016, and has been
over 60 percent for the last ten years. Although the Corporation is reasonably
certain that proved reserves will be produced, the timing and amount recovered
can be affected by a number of factors including completion of development
projects, reservoir performance, regulatory approvals, government policy,
consumer preferences and significant changes in long-term oil and natural gas
prices.  

Unproved reserves are quantities
of oil and natural gas with less than reasonable certainty of recoverability
and include probable reserves. Probable reserves are reserves that, together
with proved reserves, are as likely as not to be recovered.   

  Revisions in previously estimated volumes of proved
reserves for existing fields can occur due to the evaluation or re-evaluation
of (1) already available geologic, reservoir or production data,
(2) new geologic, reservoir or production data or (3) changes in the
average of first-of-month oil and natural gas prices and / or costs that are
used in the estimation of reserves. Revisions can also result from significant
changes in development strategy or production equipment and facility capacity.   

   Unit-of-Production
Depreciation   

  Oil and
natural gas reserve quantities are used as the basis to calculate
unit-of-production depreciation rates for most upstream assets. Depreciation is
calculated by taking the ratio of asset cost to total proved reserves or proved
developed reserves applied to actual production. The volumes produced and asset
cost are known, while proved reserves are based on estimates that are subject
to some variability.   

  In the event
that the unit-of-production method does not result in an equitable allocation
of cost over the economic life of an upstream asset, an alternative method is
used. The straight-line method is used in limited situations where the expected
life of the asset does not reasonably correlate with that of the underlying
reserves. For example, certain assets used in the production of oil and natural
gas have a shorter life than the reserves, and as such, the Corporation uses
straight-line depreciation to ensure the asset is fully depreciated by the end
of its useful life.  

  To the extent that proved reserves for a property are
substantially de-booked and that property continues to produce such that the
resulting depreciation charge does not result in an equitable allocation of
cost over the expected life, assets will be depreciated using a
unit-of-production method based on reserves determined at the most recent SEC
price which results in a more meaningful quantity of proved reserves,
appropriately adjusted for production and technical changes. The effect of this
approach on the Corporation s 2018 depreciation expense versus 2017 is
anticipated to be immaterial.  

   Impairment   

  The
Corporation tests assets or groups of assets for recoverability on an ongoing
basis whenever events or circumstances indicate that the carrying amounts may
not be recoverable. Among the events or changes in circumstances which could
indicate that the carrying value of an asset or asset group may not be
recoverable are the following:  

a significant decrease in the
market price of a long-lived asset;  

a significant adverse change in
the extent or manner in which an asset is being used or in its physical
condition including a significant decrease in current and projected reserve
volumes;  

a significant adverse change in
legal factors or in the business climate that could affect the value, including
an adverse action or assessment by a regulator;  

an accumulation of project costs
significantly in excess of the amount originally expected;  

a current-period operating loss
combined with a history and forecast of operating or cash flow losses; and  

a current expectation that, more
likely than not, a long-lived asset will be sold or otherwise disposed of
significantly before the end of its previously estimated useful life.  

  Asset
valuation analyses performed as part of its asset management program and other
profitability reviews assist the Corporation in assessing whether events or
circumstances indicate the carrying amounts of any of its assets may not be
recoverable.  

  In
general, the Corporation does not view temporarily low prices or margins as an
indication of impairment. Management believes that prices over the long term
must be sufficient to generate investments in energy supply to meet global
demand. Although prices will occasionally drop significantly, industry prices
over the long term will continue to be driven by market supply and demand
fundamentals. On the supply side, industry production from mature fields is
declining. This is being offset by investments to generate production from new
discoveries, field developments and technology and efficiency advancements.
OPEC investment activities and production policies also have an impact on world
oil supplies. The demand side is largely a function of general economic
activities and levels of prosperity. Because the lifespans of the vast majority
of the Corporation s major assets are measured in decades, the value of these
assets is predominantly based on long-term views of future commodity prices and
production costs. During the lifespan of these major assets, the Corporation
expects that oil and gas prices will experience significant volatility, and
consequently these assets will experience periods of higher earnings and
periods of lower earnings, or even losses.

56       

MANAGEMENT S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF
FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS    

In assessing whether the events or changes in
circumstances indicate the carrying value of an asset may not be recoverable,
the Corporation considers recent periods of operating losses in the context of
its longer-term view of prices. While near-term prices are subject to wide
fluctuations, longer-term price views are more stable and meaningful for
purposes of assessing future cash flows.  

  When
the industry experiences a prolonged and deep reduction in commodity prices,
the market supply and demand conditions may result in changes to the
Corporation s long-term price or margin assumptions it uses for its capital
investment decisions. To the extent those changes result in a significant
reduction to its long-term oil price, natural gas price or margin ranges, the
Corporation may consider that situation, in conjunction with other events and
changes in circumstances such as a history of operating losses, an indicator of
potential impairment for certain assets.  

  In the
Upstream, the standardized measure of discounted cash flows included in the
Supplemental Information on Oil and Gas Exploration and Production Activities
is required to use prices based on the average of first-of-month prices. These
prices represent discrete points in time and could be higher or lower than the
Corporation s long-term price assumptions which are used for impairment
assessments. The Corporation believes the standardized measure does not provide
a reliable estimate of the expected future cash flows to be obtained from the
development and production of its oil and gas properties or of the value of its
oil and gas reserves and therefore does not consider it relevant in determining
whether events or changes in circumstances indicate the need for an impairment
assessment.  

  If
events or circumstances indicate that the carrying value of an asset may not be
recoverable, the Corporation estimates the future undiscounted cash flows of
the affected properties to judge the recoverability of carrying amounts. In
performing this assessment, assets are grouped at the lowest level for which
there are identifiable cash flows that are largely independent of the cash
flows of other groups of assets. Cash flows used in recoverability assessments
are based on the Corporation s assumptions which are developed in the annual
planning and budgeting process, and are consistent with the criteria management
uses to evaluate investment opportunities. These evaluations make use of the
Corporation s assumptions of future capital allocations, crude oil and natural
gas commodity prices, refining and chemical margins, volumes, costs, and
foreign currency exchange rates. Volumes are based on projected field and
facility production profiles, throughput, or sales. Where unproved reserves
exist, an appropriately risk-adjusted amount of these reserves may be included
in the evaluation. Cash flow estimates for impairment testing exclude the
effects of derivative instruments.  

  An asset
group is impaired if its estimated undiscounted cash flows are less than the
asset s carrying value. Impairments are measured by the amount by which the
carrying value exceeds fair value. Fair value is based on market prices if an
active market exists for the asset group, or discounted cash flows using a
discount rate commensurate with the risk. Significant unproved properties are
assessed for impairment individually, and valuation allowances against the
capitalized costs are recorded based on the estimated economic chance of
success and the length of time that the Corporation expects to hold the
properties. Properties that are not individually significant are aggregated by
groups and amortized based on development risk and average holding period.   

   The Corporation has a robust process
to monitor for indicators of potential impairment across its asset groups
throughout the year. This process is aligned with the requirements of ASC 360
and relies in part on the Corporation s planning and budgeting cycle. As part
of its 2017 annual planning and budgeting cycle, the Corporation identified
emerging trends such as increasing estimates of available natural gas supplies
and ongoing reductions in the industry s costs of supply for natural gas that
resulted in a reduction to the Corporation s long-term natural gas price
outlooks. Based in part on these trends, the Corporation concluded that events
and circumstances indicated that the carrying value of certain long-lived
assets, notably North America natural gas assets and certain other assets
across the remainder of its Upstream operations, may not be recoverable.
Accordingly, an impairment assessment was performed which indicated that the
vast majority of asset groups assessed have future undiscounted cash flow estimates
that exceed their carrying values. However, the carrying values for certain
asset groups in the United States exceeded the estimated cash flows. As a
result, the Corporation s fourth quarter 2017 results include an after-tax
charge of $0.5 billion to reduce the carrying value of those assets to fair
value. The asset groups subject to this impairment charge are primarily dry gas
operations with little additional development potential. In addition, the
Corporation made a decision to cease development planning activities and
further allocation of capital to certain non-producing assets outside the
United States. The Corporation s fourth quarter 2017 results include an
after-tax charge of $0.8 billion to reduce the carrying value of those assets. Other
impairments during the year resulted in an after-tax charge of $0.2 billion.   

   The
assessment of fair values required the use of Level 3 inputs and assumptions
that are based upon the views of a likely market participant. The principal
parameters used to establish fair values included estimates of both proved and
unproved reserves, future commodity prices which were consistent with the
average of third-party industry experts and government agencies, drilling and
development costs, discount rates ranging from 5.5 percent to 8 percent
depending on the characteristics of the asset group, and comparable market
transactions. Factors which could put further assets at risk of impairment in
the future include reductions in the Corporation s long-term price outlooks, changes
in the allocation of capital, and operating cost increases which exceed the
pace of efficiencies or the pace of oil and natural gas price increases.
However, due to the inherent difficulty in predicting future       

57       

MANAGEMENT S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF
FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS    

commodity prices, and the relationship between industry
prices and costs, it is not practicable to reasonably estimate the existence or
range of any potential future impairment charges related to the Corporation s
long-lived assets.   

Inventories    

   Crude oil, products and merchandise inventories are carried
at the lower of current market value or cost (generally determined under the
last-in, first-out method   LIFO).    

Asset Retirement Obligations     

   The Corporation incurs retirement
obligations for certain assets. The fair values of these obligations are
recorded as liabilities on a discounted basis, which is typically at the time the
assets are installed. In the estimation of fair value, the Corporation uses
assumptions and judgments regarding such factors as the existence of a legal
obligation for an asset retirement obligation; technical assessments of the
assets; estimated amounts and timing of settlements; discount rates; and
inflation rates. Asset retirement obligations are disclosed in Note 9 to the
financial statements.    

Suspended Exploratory Well Costs     

   The Corporation continues capitalization
of exploratory well costs when the well has found a sufficient quantity of
reserves to justify its completion as a producing well and the Corporation is
making sufficient progress assessing the reserves and the economic and
operating viability of the project. Exploratory well costs not meeting these
criteria are charged to expense. The facts and circumstances that support
continued capitalization of suspended wells at year-end are disclosed in Note
10 to the financial statements.    

Consolidations     

   The
Consolidated Financial Statements include the accounts of subsidiaries the
Corporation controls. They also include the Corporation s share of the
undivided interest in certain upstream assets, liabilities, revenues and
expenses. Amounts representing the Corporation s interest in entities that it
does not control, but over which it exercises significant influence, are
accounted for using the equity method of accounting.    

   Investments in companies that are
partially owned by the Corporation are integral to the Corporation s
operations. In some cases they serve to balance worldwide risks, and in others
they provide the only available means of entry into a particular market or area
of interest. The other parties, who also have an equity interest in these
companies, are either independent third parties or host governments that share
in the business results according to their ownership. The Corporation does not
invest in these companies in order to remove liabilities from its balance
sheet. In fact, the Corporation has long been on record supporting an
alternative accounting method that would require each investor to consolidate
its share of all assets and liabilities in these partially-owned companies
rather than only its interest in net equity. This method of accounting for
investments in partially-owned companies is not permitted by U.S. GAAP except
where the investments are in the direct ownership of a share of upstream assets
and liabilities. However, for purposes of calculating return on average capital
employed, which is not covered by U.S. GAAP standards, the Corporation includes
its share of debt of these partially-owned companies in the determination of
average capital employed.    

Pension Benefits     

   The
Corporation and its affiliates sponsor nearly 100 defined benefit (pension)
plans in over 40 countries. The Pension and Other Postretirement Benefits footnote
(Note 17) provides details on pension obligations, fund assets and pension
expense.    

   Some
of these plans (primarily non-U.S.) provide pension benefits that are paid
directly by their sponsoring affiliates out of corporate cash flow rather than
a separate pension fund because applicable tax rules and regulatory practices
do not encourage advance funding. Book reserves are established for these
plans. The portion of the pension cost attributable to employee service is
expensed as services are rendered. The portion attributable to the increase in
pension obligations due to the passage of time is expensed over the term of the
obligations, which ends when all benefits are paid. The primary difference in
pension expense for unfunded versus funded plans is that pension expense for
funded plans also includes a credit for the expected long-term return on fund
assets.   

   For
funded plans, including those in the U.S., pension obligations are financed in
advance through segregated assets or insurance arrangements. These plans are
managed in compliance with the requirements of governmental authorities and
meet or exceed required funding levels as measured by relevant actuarial and
government standards at the mandated measurement dates. In determining
liabilities and required contributions, these standards often require
approaches and assumptions that differ from those used for accounting purposes.

58       

MANAGEMENT S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF
FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS    

The Corporation will continue to make
contributions to these funded plans as necessary. All defined-benefit pension
obligations, regardless of the funding status of the underlying plans, are fully
supported by the financial strength of the Corporation or the respective
sponsoring affiliate.    

   Pension
accounting requires explicit assumptions regarding, among others, the long-term
expected earnings rate on fund assets, the discount rate for the benefit
obligations and the long-term rate for future salary increases. Pension
assumptions are reviewed annually by outside actuaries and senior management.
These assumptions are adjusted as appropriate to reflect changes in market
rates and outlook. The long-term expected earnings rate on U.S. pension plan
assets in 2017 was 6.50 percent. The 10 year and 20 year actual
returns on U.S. pension plan assets were 5 percent and 8 percent, respectively.
The Corporation establishes the long term expected rate of return by
developing a forward-looking, long-term return assumption for each pension fund
asset class, taking into account factors such as the expected real return for
the specific asset class and inflation. A single, long-term rate of return is
then calculated as the weighted average of the target asset allocation
percentages and the long-term return assumption for each asset class. A
worldwide reduction of 0.5 percent in the long-term rate of return on assets
would increase annual pension expense by approximately $170 million before tax.

Differences between actual returns on fund
assets and the long-term expected return are not recognized in pension expense
in the year that the difference occurs. Such differences are deferred, along
with other actuarial gains and losses, and are amortized into pension expense
over the expected remaining service life of employees.    

Litigation Contingencies     

   A
variety of claims have been made against the Corporation and certain of its
consolidated subsidiaries in a number of pending lawsuits. Management has
regular litigation reviews, including updates from corporate and outside
counsel, to assess the need for accounting recognition or disclosure of these
contingencies. The status of significant claims is summarized in Note 16.    

   The
Corporation accrues an undiscounted liability for those contingencies where the
incurrence of a loss is probable, and the amount can be reasonably estimated. These
amounts are not reduced by amounts that may be recovered under insurance or
claims against third parties, but undiscounted receivables from insurers or
other third parties may be accrued separately. The Corporation revises such
accruals in light of new information. For contingencies where an unfavorable
outcome is reasonably possible and which are significant, the Corporation
discloses the nature of the contingency and, where feasible, an estimate of the
possible loss. For purposes of our litigation contingency disclosures,
 significant  includes material matters as well as other items which management
believes should be disclosed.    

   Management judgment is required related to
contingent liabilities and the outcome of litigation because both are difficult
to predict. However, the Corporation has been successful in defending
litigation in the past. Payments have not had a material adverse effect on
operations or financial condition. In the Corporation s experience, large
claims often do not result in large awards. Large awards are often reversed or
substantially reduced as a result of appeal or settlement.    

Tax Contingencies     

   The
Corporation is subject to income taxation in many jurisdictions around the
world. Significant management judgment is required in the accounting for income
tax contingencies and tax disputes because the outcomes are often difficult to
predict.    

   The benefits of uncertain tax positions
that the Corporation has taken or expects to take in its income tax returns are
recognized in the financial statements if management concludes that it is more
likely than not that the position will be sustained with the tax authorities.
For a position that is likely to be sustained, the benefit recognized in the
financial statements is measured at the largest amount that is greater than 50
percent likely of being realized. A reserve is established for the difference
between a position taken or expected to be taken in an income tax return and
the amount recognized in the financial statements. The Corporation s
unrecognized tax benefits and a description of open tax years are summarized in
Note 19.   

Foreign
Currency Translation     

   The
method of translating the foreign currency financial statements of the
Corporation s international subsidiaries into U.S. dollars is prescribed by
GAAP. Under these principles, it is necessary to select the functional currency
of these subsidiaries. The functional currency is the currency of the primary
economic environment in which the subsidiary operates. Management selects the
functional currency after evaluating this economic environment.    

   Factors considered by management when
determining the functional currency for a subsidiary include the currency used
for cash flows related to individual assets and liabilities; the responsiveness
of sales prices to changes in exchange rates; the history of inflation in the
country; whether sales are into local markets or exported; the currency used to
acquire raw materials, labor, services and supplies; sources of financing; and
significance of intercompany transactions.   

59       

MANAGEMENT S REPORT ON INTERNAL CONTROL
OVER FINANCIAL REPORTING    

Management, including the Corporation s Chief Executive
Officer, Principal Financial Officer, and Principal Accounting Officer, is
responsible for establishing and maintaining adequate internal control over the
Corporation s financial reporting. Management conducted an evaluation of the
effectiveness of internal control over financial reporting based on criteria
established in    Internal Control   Integrated Framework (2013)   
issued by the Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of the Treadway Commission.
Based on this evaluation, management concluded that Exxon Mobil Corporation s
internal control over financial reporting was effective as of December 31,
2017.   

  PricewaterhouseCoopers
LLP, an independent registered public accounting firm, audited the
effectiveness of the Corporation s internal control over financial reporting as
of December 31, 2017, as stated in their report included in the Financial
Section of this report.   

Darren W. Woods  
    Chief
  Executive Officer  

Andrew P. Swiger  
    Senior Vice President  
    (Principal
  Financial Officer)  

David S. Rosenthal  
    Vice President and Controller  
    (Principal
  Accounting Officer)  

60       

REPORT OF INDEPENDENT REGISTERED PUBLIC ACCOUNTING FIRM      

To the Board of Directors and Shareholders
of Exxon Mobil Corporation   

     Opinions on the Financial Statements and
Internal Control over Financial Reporting     

   We have audited the accompanying
consolidated balance sheets of Exxon Mobil Corporation and its subsidiaries (the
 Corporation ) as of December 31, 2017 and 2016, and the related consolidated
statements of income, comprehensive income, changes in equity and cash flows
for each of the three years in the period ended December 31, 2017, including
the related notes (collectively referred to as the  consolidated financial
statements ). We also have audited the Corporation's internal control over
financial reporting as of December 31, 2017 based on criteria established in    Internal
Control - Integrated Framework    (2013) issued by the Committee of Sponsoring
Organizations of the Treadway Commission (COSO).    

   In our opinion, the consolidated       financial
statements referred to above present fairly, in all material respects, the
financial position of the Corporation as of December 31, 2017 and 2016, and the
results of their operations and their cash flows for each of the three years in
the period ended December 31, 2017 in conformity with accounting principles
generally accepted in the United States of America. Also in our opinion, the
Corporation maintained, in all material respects, effective internal control
over financial reporting as of December 31, 2017, based on criteria established
in    Internal Control - Integrated Framework    (2013) issued by the COSO.   

    Change in Accounting Principle    

   As discussed in Note 2 to the consolidated
financial statements, in 2017 the Corporation changed the manner in which it
accounts for certain sales and value-added taxes imposed on and concurrent with
revenue-producing transactions with customers and collected on behalf of
governmental authorities.                   

     Basis for Opinions     

   The Corporation's management is
responsible for these consolidated financial statements, for maintaining
effective internal control over financial reporting, and for its assessment of
the effectiveness of internal control over financial reporting, included in the
accompanying Management s Report on Internal Control over Financial Reporting.
Our responsibility is to express opinions on the Corporation s consolidated       financial
statements and on the Corporation's internal control over financial reporting
based on our audits. We are a public accounting firm registered with the Public
Company Accounting Oversight Board (United States) ( PCAOB ) and are
required to be independent with respect to the Corporation in accordance with
the U.S. federal securities laws and the applicable rules and regulations of
the Securities and Exchange Commission and the PCAOB.   

   We conducted our audits in accordance with
the standards of the PCAOB. Those standards require that we plan and perform
the audits to obtain reasonable assurance about whether the consolidated       financial
statements are free of material misstatement, whether due to error or fraud,
and whether effective internal control over financial reporting was maintained
in all material respects.    

   Our audits of the consolidated financial
statements included performing procedures to assess the risks of material
misstatement of the consolidated financial statements, whether due to error or
fraud, and performing procedures that respond to those risks. Such procedures
included examining, on a test basis, evidence regarding the amounts and
disclosures in the consolidated financial statements. Our audits also included
evaluating the accounting principles used and significant estimates made by
management, as well as evaluating the overall presentation of the consolidated
financial statements. Our audit of internal control over financial reporting
included obtaining an understanding of internal control over financial
reporting, assessing the risk that a material weakness exists, and testing and
evaluating the design and operating effectiveness of internal control based on
the assessed risk. Our audits also included performing such other procedures as
we considered necessary in the circumstances. We believe that our audits
provide a reasonable basis for our opinions.

61       

REPORT OF INDEPENDENT REGISTERED PUBLIC ACCOUNTING FIRM      

Definition
and Limitations of Internal Control over Financial Reporting     

   A company s internal control over
financial reporting is a process designed to provide reasonable assurance
regarding the reliability of financial reporting and the preparation of
financial statements for external purposes in accordance with generally accepted
accounting principles. A company s internal control over financial reporting
includes those policies and procedures that (i) pertain to the maintenance
of records that, in reasonable detail, accurately and fairly reflect the
transactions and dispositions of the assets of the company; (ii) provide
reasonable assurance that transactions are recorded as necessary to permit preparation
of financial statements in accordance with generally accepted accounting
principles, and that receipts and expenditures of the company are being made
only in accordance with authorizations of management and directors of the
company; and (iii) provide reasonable assurance regarding prevention or
timely detection of unauthorized acquisition, use, or disposition of the
company s assets that could have a material effect on the financial statements.   

   Because of its inherent limitations,
internal control over financial reporting may not prevent or detect
misstatements. Also, projections of any evaluation of effectiveness to future
periods are subject to the risk that controls may become inadequate because of
changes in conditions, or that the degree of compliance with the policies or
procedures may deteriorate.   

   /s/ PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP    

   Dallas, Texas    

   February 28, 2018   

   We have served as the Corporation s
auditor since 1934.       

62       

CONSOLIDATED STATEMENT OF INCOME    

(1)   Effective December 31, 2017, the
Corporation revised its accounting policy election related to sales-based
taxes. See Note 2: Accounting Changes.    

The
information in the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements is an integral
part of these statements.     

63       

CONSOLIDATED STATEMENT OF COMPREHENSIVE
INCOME    

The
information in the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements is an integral
part of these statements.     

64       

CONSOLIDATED BALANCE SHEET    

The
information in the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements is an integral
part of these statements.     

65       

CONSOLIDATED STATEMENT OF CASH FLOWS       

The
information in the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements is an integral
part of these statements.     

66       

CONSOLIDATED STATEMENT OF CHANGES IN
EQUITY    

The
information in the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements is an integral
part of these statements.     

67       

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS

The
accompanying consolidated financial statements and the supporting and
supplemental material are the responsibility of the management of Exxon Mobil
Corporation.    

   The
Corporation s principal business is energy, involving the worldwide
exploration, production, transportation and sale of crude oil and natural gas
(Upstream) and the manufacture, transportation and sale of petroleum products
(Downstream). The Corporation is also a major worldwide manufacturer and
marketer of petrochemicals (Chemical).    

   The
preparation of financial statements in conformity with U.S. Generally Accepted
Accounting Principles (GAAP) requires management to make estimates that affect
the reported amounts of assets, liabilities, revenues and expenses and the
disclosure of contingent assets and liabilities. Actual results could differ
from these estimates. Prior years  data has been reclassified in certain cases
to conform to the 2017 presentation basis.    

1.
Summary of Accounting Policies    

     Principles of Consolidation   

  The
Consolidated Financial Statements include the accounts of subsidiaries the
Corporation controls. They also include the Corporation s share of the
undivided interest in certain upstream assets, liabilities, revenues and
expenses. Amounts representing the Corporation s interest in entities that it
does not control, but over which it exercises significant influence, are
included in  Investments, advances and long-term receivables . The
Corporation s share of the net income of these companies is included in the
Consolidated Statement of Income caption  Income from equity affiliates .   

  Majority
ownership is normally the indicator of control that is the basis on which
subsidiaries are consolidated. However, certain factors may indicate that a
majority-owned investment is not controlled and therefore should be accounted
for using the equity method of accounting. These factors occur where the
minority shareholders are granted by law or by contract substantive
participating rights. These include the right to approve operating policies,
expense budgets, financing and investment plans, and management compensation
and succession plans.   

  Evidence of
loss in value that might indicate impairment of investments in companies
accounted for on the equity method is assessed to determine if such evidence
represents a loss in value of the Corporation s investment that is other than
temporary. Examples of key indicators include a history of operating losses,
negative earnings and cash flow outlook, significant downward revisions to oil
and gas reserves, and the financial condition and prospects for the investee s
business segment or geographic region. If evidence of an other than temporary
loss in fair value below carrying amount is determined, an impairment is
recognized. In the absence of market prices for the investment, discounted cash
flows are used to assess fair value.   

  The
Corporation s share of the cumulative foreign exchange translation adjustment
for equity method investments is reported in Accumulated Other Comprehensive
Income.   

       Revenue Recognition   

  The
Corporation generally sells crude oil, natural gas and petroleum and chemical
products under short-term agreements at prevailing market prices. In some cases
(e.g., natural gas), products may be sold under long-term agreements, with
periodic price adjustments. Revenues are recognized when the products are
delivered, which occurs when the customer has taken title and has assumed the
risks and rewards of ownership, prices are fixed or determinable and
collectibility is reasonably assured.   

  Revenues
from the production of natural gas properties in which the Corporation has an
interest with other producers are recognized on the basis of the Corporation s
net working interest. Differences between actual production and net working
interest volumes are not significant.   

  Purchases
and sales of inventory with the same counterparty that are entered into in
contemplation of one another are combined and recorded as exchanges measured at
the book value of the item sold.   

       Taxes on Sales Transactions   

  Beginning in
2017, the Corporation revised its reporting of certain sales and value-added
taxes imposed on and concurrent with revenue-producing transactions with
customers and collected on behalf of governmental authorities (sales-based
taxes). This changes reporting of sales-based taxes from gross reporting
(included in both  Sales and other operating revenue  and  Sales-based taxes )
to net reporting (excluded from both  Sales and other operating revenue  and
 Sales-based taxes ) in the Consolidated Statement of Income. This change in
reporting was applied retrospectively and does not affect earnings. Similar
taxes, for which the Corporation is not considered to be an agent for the
government, continue to be reported on a gross basis.

68       

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS

Derivative Instruments   

  The
Corporation has the ability to use derivative instruments to offset exposures
associated with commodity prices, foreign currency exchange rates and interest
rates that arise from existing assets, liabilities and forecasted transactions.
The gains and losses resulting from changes in the fair value of derivatives
are recorded in income.   

  The
Corporation may designate derivatives as fair value hedges or cash flow hedges.
For fair value hedges, the gain or loss on the derivative and the offsetting
loss or gain on the hedged item are recognized in current earnings. For cash
flow hedges, the effective part of the hedge is initially reported as a
component of other comprehensive income and subsequently reclassified into
earnings in the period that the forecasted transaction affects earnings, and
the ineffective part of the hedge is recognized immediately in earnings.     

     Fair Value   

  Fair value
is the price that would be received to sell an asset or paid to transfer a
liability in an orderly transaction between market participants. Hierarchy
Levels 1, 2 and 3 are terms for the priority of inputs to valuation techniques
used to measure fair value. Hierarchy Level 1 inputs are quoted prices in
active markets for identical assets or liabilities. Hierarchy Level 2
inputs are inputs other than quoted prices included within Level 1 that
are directly or indirectly observable for the asset or liability. Hierarchy
Level 3 inputs are inputs that are not observable in the market.    

     Inventories   

  Crude oil,
products and merchandise inventories are carried at the lower of current market
value or cost (generally determined under the last-in, first-out method  
LIFO). Inventory costs include expenditures and other charges (including
depreciation) directly and indirectly incurred in bringing the inventory to its
existing condition and location. Selling expenses and general and
administrative expenses are reported as period costs and excluded from
inventory cost. Inventories of materials and supplies are valued at cost or
less.   

       Property, Plant and Equipment   

   Cost
Basis.    The Corporation uses the
 successful efforts  method to account for its exploration and production
activities. Under this method, costs are accumulated on a field-by-field basis.
Costs incurred to purchase, lease, or otherwise acquire a property (whether
unproved or proved) are capitalized when incurred. Exploratory well costs are
carried as an asset when the well has found a sufficient quantity of reserves
to justify its completion as a producing well and where the Corporation is
making sufficient progress assessing the reserves and the economic and
operating viability of the project. Exploratory well costs not meeting these
criteria are charged to expense. Other exploratory expenditures, including
geophysical costs and annual lease rentals, are expensed as incurred.
Development costs, including costs of productive wells and development dry holes,
are capitalized.   

   Depreciation,
Depletion and Amortization.    Depreciation,
depletion and amortization are primarily determined under either the
unit-of-production method or the straight-line method, which is based on
estimated asset service life taking obsolescence into consideration.   

  Acquisition
costs of proved properties are amortized using a unit-of-production method,
computed on the basis of total proved oil and gas reserves. Capitalized
exploratory drilling and development costs associated with productive
depletable extractive properties are amortized using the unit-of-production
rates based on the amount of proved developed reserves of oil and gas that are
estimated to be recoverable from existing facilities using current operating
methods. Under the unit-of-production method, oil and gas volumes are
considered produced once they have been measured through meters at custody
transfer or sales transaction points at the outlet valve on the lease or field
storage tank. In the event that the unit-of-production method does not result
in an equitable allocation of cost over the economic life of an upstream asset,
an alternative method is used. The straight-line method is used in limited
situations where the expected life of the asset does not reasonably correlate
with that of the underlying reserves. For example, certain assets used in the
production of oil and natural gas have a shorter life than the reserves, and as
such, the Corporation uses straight-line depreciation to ensure the asset is
fully depreciated by the end of its useful life.  

  To the
extent that proved reserves for a property are substantially de-booked and that
property continues to produce such that the resulting depreciation charge does
not result in an equitable allocation of cost over the expected life, assets
will be depreciated using a unit-of-production method based on reserves
determined at the most recent SEC price which results in a more meaningful quantity
of proved reserves, appropriately adjusted for production and technical changes.

Investments
in refinery, chemical process, and lubes basestock manufacturing equipment are
generally depreciated on a straight line basis over a 25-year life.
Service station buildings and fixed improvements generally are depreciated over
a 20-year life. Maintenance and repairs, including planned major maintenance,
are expensed as incurred. Major renewals and improvements are capitalized and
the assets replaced are retired.

69       

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS

Impairment Assessment.    The Corporation tests assets or groups of assets for
recoverability on an ongoing basis whenever events or circumstances indicate
that the carrying amounts may not be recoverable. Among the events or changes
in circumstances which could indicate that the carrying value of an asset or
asset group may not be recoverable are the following:  

a significant decrease in the
market price of a long-lived asset;  

a significant adverse change in
the extent or manner in which an asset is being used or in its physical
condition including a significant decrease in current and projected reserve
volumes;  

a significant adverse change in
legal factors or in the business climate that could affect the value, including
an adverse action or assessment by a regulator;  

an accumulation of project costs
significantly in excess of the amount originally expected;  

a current-period operating loss
combined with a history and forecast of operating or cash flow losses; and  

a current expectation that, more
likely than not, a long-lived asset will be sold or otherwise disposed of
significantly before the end of its previously estimated useful life.  

  Asset
valuation analyses performed as part of its asset management program and other
profitability reviews assist the Corporation in assessing whether events or
circumstances indicate the carrying amounts of any of its assets may not be
recoverable.  

  In
general, the Corporation does not view temporarily low prices or margins as an
indication of impairment. Management believes that prices over the long term
must be sufficient to generate investments in energy supply to meet global
demand. Although prices will occasionally drop significantly, industry prices
over the long term will continue to be driven by market supply and demand
fundamentals. On the supply side, industry production from mature fields is declining.
This is being offset by investments to generate production from new
discoveries, field developments and technology and efficiency advancements.
OPEC investment activities and production policies also have an impact on world
oil supplies. The demand side is largely a function of general economic
activities and levels of prosperity. Because the lifespans of the vast majority
of the Corporation s major assets are measured in decades, the value of these
assets is predominantly based on long-term views of future commodity prices and
production costs. During the lifespan of these major assets, the Corporation
expects that oil and gas prices will experience significant volatility, and
consequently these assets will experience periods of higher earnings and periods
of lower earnings, or even losses. In assessing whether the events or changes
in circumstances indicate the carrying value of an asset may not be
recoverable, the Corporation considers recent periods of operating losses in
the context of its longer-term view of prices. While near-term prices are
subject to wide fluctuations, longer-term price views are more stable and
meaningful for purposes of assessing future cash flows.  

  When the
industry experiences a prolonged and deep reduction in commodity prices, the
market supply and demand conditions may result in changes to the Corporation s
long-term price or margin assumptions it uses for its capital investment
decisions. To the extent those changes result in a significant reduction to its
long-term oil price, natural gas price or margin ranges, the Corporation may
consider that situation, in conjunction with other events and changes in
circumstances such as a history of operating losses, an indicator of potential
impairment for certain assets.  

  In the
Upstream, the standardized measure of discounted cash flows included in the
Supplemental Information on Oil and Gas Exploration and Production activities
is required to use prices based on the average of first-of-month prices. These
prices represent discrete points in time and could be higher or lower than the
Corporation s long-term price assumptions which are used for impairment
assessments. The Corporation believes the standardized measure does not provide
a reliable estimate of the expected future cash flows to be obtained from the
development and production of its oil and gas properties or of the value of its
oil and gas reserves and therefore does not consider it relevant in determining
whether events or changes in circumstances indicate the need for an impairment
assessment.  

  If
events or circumstances indicate that the carrying value of an asset may not be
recoverable, the Corporation estimates the future undiscounted cash flows of
the affected properties to judge the recoverability of carrying amounts. In performing
this assessment, assets are grouped at the lowest level for which there are
identifiable cash flows that are largely independent of the cash flows of other
groups of assets. Cash flows used in recoverability assessments are based on
the Corporation s assumptions which are developed in the annual planning and
budgeting process, and are consistent with the criteria management uses to
evaluate investment opportunities. These evaluations make use of the
Corporation s assumptions of future capital allocations, crude oil and natural
gas commodity prices, refining and chemical margins, volumes, costs, and
foreign currency exchange rates. Volumes are based on projected field and
facility production profiles, throughput, or sales. Where unproved reserves exist,
an appropriately risk-adjusted amount of these reserves may be included in the
evaluation. Cash flow estimates for impairment testing exclude the effects of
derivative instruments.  

  An
asset group is impaired if its estimated undiscounted cash flows are less than
the asset s carrying value. Impairments are measured by the amount by which the
carrying value exceeds fair value. Fair value is based on market prices if an
active market exists for the asset group, or discounted cash flows using a
discount rate commensurate with the risk. Significant unproved properties are
assessed for impairment individually, and valuation allowances against the
capitalized costs are recorded based on the estimated economic chance of
success and the length of time that the Corporation expects to hold the
properties. Properties      

70       

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS

that are not individually
significant are aggregated by groups and amortized based on development risk
and average holding period.   

   Other.    Gains on sales of proved and unproved properties are
only recognized when there is neither uncertainty about the recovery of costs
applicable to any interest retained nor any substantial obligation for future
performance by the Corporation. Losses on properties sold are recognized when
incurred or when the properties are held for sale and the fair value of the
properties is less than the carrying value.  

  Interest
costs incurred to finance expenditures during the construction phase of
multiyear projects are capitalized as part of the historical cost of acquiring
the constructed assets. The project construction phase commences with the
development of the detailed engineering design and ends when the constructed
assets are ready for their intended use. Capitalized interest costs are
included in property, plant and equipment and are depreciated over the service
life of the related assets.   

Asset
Retirement Obligations and Environmental Liabilities   

  The Corporation
incurs retirement obligations for certain assets. The fair values of these
obligations are recorded as liabilities on a discounted basis, which is
typically at the time the assets are installed. The costs associated with these
liabilities are capitalized as part of the related assets and depreciated. Over
time, the liabilities are accreted for the change in their present value.   

  Liabilities
for environmental costs are recorded when it is probable that obligations have
been incurred and the amounts can be reasonably estimated. These liabilities
are not reduced by possible recoveries from third parties, and projected cash
expenditures are not discounted.   

Foreign
Currency Translation   

  The
Corporation selects the functional reporting currency for its international
subsidiaries based on the currency of the primary economic environment in which
each subsidiary operates.   

  Downstream
and Chemical operations primarily use the local currency. However, the U.S.
dollar is used in countries with a history of high inflation (primarily in
Latin America) and Singapore, which predominantly sells into the U.S. dollar
export market. Upstream operations which are relatively self-contained and
integrated within a particular country, such as Canada, the United Kingdom,
Norway and continental Europe, use the local currency. Some Upstream
operations, primarily in Asia and Africa, use the U.S. dollar because they
predominantly sell crude and natural gas production into U.S.
dollar-denominated markets.   

  For all
operations, gains or losses from remeasuring foreign currency transactions into
the functional currency are included in income.   

Stock-Based
Payments   

  The
Corporation awards stock-based compensation to employees in the form of
restricted stock and restricted stock units. Compensation expense is measured
by the price of the stock at the date of grant and is recognized in income over
the requisite service period.       

71       

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS

2. Accounting Changes    

   Effective December 31, 2017, the Corporation revised its
accounting policy election related to the reporting of certain sales and
value-added taxes imposed on and concurrent with revenue-producing transactions
with customers and collected on behalf of governmental authorities (sales-based
taxes). This changes reporting of sales-based taxes from gross reporting
(included in both  Sales and other operating revenue  and  Sales-based taxes )
to the preferable method of net reporting (excluded from both  Sales and other
operating revenue  and  Sales-based taxes ) in the Consolidated Statement of
Income. The revised election makes reported revenue more consistent with
ExxonMobil s role as an agent for the government and is more consistent with
the reporting practices of other international major oil and gas companies and
the largest U.S. companies. This change in accounting principle was applied
retrospectively and does not affect net income attributable to ExxonMobil.   

   Also effective December 31, 2017, the
Corporation reclassified U.S. Federal excise tax from  Sales-based taxes  to
 Other taxes and duties . For these taxes ExxonMobil is not considered to be an
agent for the government and these taxes will continue to be reported gross. The
amount reclassified was $3,110 million in 2016 and $3,044 million in 2015. This
change in classification was applied retrospectively and does not affect net
income attributable to ExxonMobil.     

Effective January 1, 2018, ExxonMobil adopted
the Financial Accounting Standards Board s standard,    Revenue from Contracts
with Customers,    as amended. The standard establishes a single revenue
recognition model for all contracts with customers, eliminates industry and
transaction specific requirements, and expands disclosure requirements. The
standard was adopted using the Modified Retrospective method, under which prior
year results are not restated, but supplemental information on the impact of
the new standard must be provided for 2018 results, if material. The standard
is not expected to have a material impact on the Corporation s financial
statements. The cumulative effect of adoption of the new standard is de
minimis.   

   Effective
January 1, 2018, ExxonMobil adopted the Financial Accounting Standards Board s
Update,    Financial Instruments Overall (Subtopic 825-10): Recognition and
Measurement of Financial Assets and Financial Liabilities   . The standard
requires investments in equity securities other than consolidated subsidiaries
and equity method investments to be measured at fair value with changes in the
fair value recognized through net income. Companies can elect a modified
approach for equity securities that do not have a readily determinable fair
value. The standard is not expected to have a material impact on the
Corporation s financial statements.   

   Effective
January 1, 2018, ExxonMobil adopted the Financial Accounting Standards Board s
Update,    Compensation   Retirement Benefits (Topic 715): Improving the
Presentation of Net Periodic Pension Cost and Net Periodic Postretirement
Benefit Cost   . The update requires the service cost component of net benefit
costs to be reported in the same line of the income statement as other compensation
costs and the other components of net benefit costs (non-service costs) to be
presented separately from the service cost component. Additionally, only the
service cost component of net benefit costs is eligible for capitalization. The
Corporation expects to add a new line  Non-service pension and postretirement
benefit expense  to its Consolidated Statement of Income and expects to include
all of these costs in its Corporate and financing segment. This line would
reflect the non-service costs that were previously included in  Production and
manufacturing expenses  and  Selling, general and administrative expenses . The
update is not expected to have a material impact on the Corporation s financial
statements.    

   Effective
January 1, 2019, ExxonMobil will adopt the Financial Accounting Standards
Board s standard,    Leases   . The standard requires all leases with an
initial term greater than one year be recorded on the balance sheet as an asset
and a lease liability. The Corporation is gathering and evaluating data and
recently acquired a system to facilitate implementation. We are progressing an
assessment of the magnitude of the effect on the Corporation s financial
statements.     

72       

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS

3. Miscellaneous Financial Information    

   Research
and development expenses totaled $1,063 million in 2017, $1,058 million
in 2016, and $1,008 million in 2015.    

   Net
income included before tax aggregate foreign exchange transaction gains
of $6 million in 2017 and $29 million in 2016, and a loss of
$119 million in 2015.    

   In 2017,
2016, and 2015, net income included losses of $10 million, $295 million,
and $186 million, respectively, attributable to the combined effects of
LIFO inventory accumulations and drawdowns. The aggregate replacement cost of
inventories was estimated to exceed their LIFO carrying values by
$10.8 billion and $8.1 billion at December 31, 2017, and 2016,
respectively.   

   Crude oil,
products and merchandise as of year-end 2017 and 2016 consist of the following:

73       

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS

4.             Other Comprehensive
Income Information       

Amounts
  Reclassified Out of Accumulated Other   

Comprehensive
  Income - Before-tax Income/(Expense)   

2017   

2016   

2015   

(millions of dollars)   

Foreign exchange
  translation gain/(loss) included in net income  

(Statement of
  Income line: Other income)  

(234)  

-  

14  

Amortization and
  settlement of postretirement benefits reserves  

adjustment
  included in net periodic benefit costs      (1)    

(1,656)  

(1,531)  

(2,066)  

Realized change
  in fair value of stock investments included in net income  

(Statement of
  Income line: Other income)  

-  

-  

(42)  

(1)   These accumulated other comprehensive income components are
included in the computation of net periodic pension cost. (See Note 17  
Pension and Other Postretirement Benefits for additional details.)        

74       

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS

5. Cash Flow Information    

   The
Consolidated Statement of Cash Flows provides information about changes in cash
and cash equivalents. Highly liquid investments with maturities of three months
or less when acquired are classified as cash equivalents.    

   For
2017, the  Net (gain) on asset sales  on the Consolidated Statement of Cash
Flows includes before-tax amounts from the sale of service stations in multiple
countries, Upstream asset transactions in the U.S., and the sale of ExxonMobil s
operated Upstream business in Norway. For 2016, the number includes before-tax
amounts from the sale of service stations in Canada, the sale of Upstream
properties in the U.S., and the sale of aviation fueling operations across
multiple countries. For 2015, the number includes before-tax amounts from the
sale of service stations in Europe, the sale of Upstream properties in the
U.S., the sale of ExxonMobil s interests in Chemical and Refining joint
ventures, and the sale of the Torrance refinery. These net gains are reported
in  Other income  on the Consolidated Statement of Income.   

   In
2017, the  Additions/(reductions) in commercial paper, and debt with three
months or less maturity  on the Consolidated Statement of Cash Flows includes a
net $121 million repayment of commercial paper with maturity over three months.
The gross amount issued was $3.6 billion, while the gross amount repaid was $3.7
billion. In 2016, the number includes a net $608 million addition of commercial
paper with maturity over three months. The gross amount issued was $3.9
billion, while the gross amount repaid was $3.3 billion. In 2015, the number
includes a net $358 million addition of commercial paper with maturity over
three months. The gross amount issued was $8.1 billion, while the gross amount
repaid was $7.7 billion.   

   In
2017, the Corporation completed the acquisitions of InterOil Corporation and of
companies that own certain oil and gas properties in the Permian basin and
other assets. These transactions included a significant noncash component.
Additional information is provided in Note 20.   

   In
2015, ExxonMobil completed an asset exchange that resulted in value received of
approximately $500 million including $100 million in cash. The noncash
portion was not included in the  Sales of subsidiaries, investments, and
property, plant and equipment  or the  All other items-net  lines on the
Statement of Cash Flows. Capital leases of approximately $1 billion were not
included in the  Additions to long-term debt  or  Additions to property, plant
and equipment  lines on the Statement of Cash Flows.     

6. Additional Working Capital Information       

The Corporation has short-term committed
lines of credit of $5.4 billion which were unused as of December 31, 2017. These
lines are available for general corporate purposes      .      

   The
weighted-average interest rate on short-term borrowings outstanding was 1.3 percent
and 0.6 percent at December 31, 2017, and 2016, respectively.      

75       

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS

7. Equity Company Information    

   The
summarized financial information below includes amounts related to certain
less-than-majority-owned companies and majority-owned subsidiaries where
minority shareholders possess the right to participate in significant
management decisions (see Note 1). These companies are primarily engaged in oil
and gas exploration and production, and natural gas marketing in North America;
natural gas exploration, production and distribution in Europe; and exploration,
production, liquefied natural gas (LNG) operations, refining operations,
petrochemical manufacturing, and fuel sales in Asia and the Middle East. Also
included are several refining, petrochemical manufacturing and marketing
ventures.    

   The
share of total equity company revenues from sales to ExxonMobil
consolidated companies was 15 percent, 14 percent and 15 percent in the
years 2017, 2016 and 2015, respectively.   

   The Corporation s
ownership in these ventures is in the form of shares in corporate joint
ventures as well as interests in partnerships. Differences between the
company s carrying value of an equity investment and its underlying equity in
the net assets of the affiliate are assigned to the extent practicable to
specific assets and liabilities based on the company s analysis of the factors
giving rise to the difference. The amortization of this difference, as
appropriate, is included in  Income from equity affiliates  on the Consolidated
Statement of Income.    

   In
2013 and 2014, the Corporation and Rosneft established various entities to
conduct exploration and research activities. In 2014, the European Union and
United States imposed sanctions relating to the Russian energy sector. In the
latter half of 2017, the United States codified and expanded sanctions against
Russia. With respect to the foregoing, the Corporation and its affiliates
continue to comply with all applicable laws, rules and regulations. In late
2017, the Corporation decided to withdraw from these joint ventures. The
Corporation expects it will formally initiate the withdrawal in 2018. The
decision to withdraw resulted in an after-tax loss of $0.2 billion.   

   In 2017, the Corporation invested about $3
billion to acquire shares in four joint venture companies, resulting in a 25
percent indirect interest in the natural gas-rich Area 4 block offshore
Mozambique. The transaction was completed on December 13, 2017. The investments
are accounted for using the equity method of accounting.     

76       

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS

A list of
significant equity companies as of December 31, 201  7,
together with the Corporation s percentage ownership interest, is detailed
below:      

Percentage   

Ownership   

Interest   

Upstream   

Aera Energy LLC  

48  

Barzan Gas
  Company Limited  

7  

BEB Erdgas und
  Erdoel GmbH   Co. KG  

50  

Cameroon Oil
  Transportation Company S.A.  

41  

Cross Timbers
  Energy, LLC  

50  

Golden Pass LNG
  Terminal LLC  

18  

Marine Well
  Containment Company LLC  

10  

Mozambique Rovuma
  Venture, S.p.A.  

36  

Nederlandse
  Aardolie Maatschappij B.V.  

50  

Qatar Liquefied
  Gas Company Limited (2)  

24  

Ras Laffan
  Liquefied Natural Gas Company Limited  

25  

Ras Laffan
  Liquefied Natural Gas Company Limited (II)  

31  

Ras Laffan
  Liquefied Natural Gas Company Limited (3)  

30  

South Hook LNG
  Terminal Company Limited  

24  

Tengizchevroil,
  LLP  

25  

Terminale GNL
  Adriatico S.r.l.  

71  

Downstream   

Fujian Refining
    Petrochemical Co. Ltd.  

25  

Permian Express
  Partners LLC  

12  

Saudi Aramco
  Mobil Refinery Company Ltd.  

50  

Chemical   

Al-Jubail
  Petrochemical Company  

50  

Infineum Italia
  s.r.l.  

50  

Infineum
  Singapore Pte. Ltd.  

50  

Infineum USA L.P.  

50  

Saudi Yanbu
  Petrochemical Co.  

50  

77       

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS

8. Investments, Advances and Long-Term Receivables     

9. Property, Plant and Equipment and Asset
Retirement Obligations       

The Corporation has a robust process to monitor for indicators of
potential impairment across its asset groups throughout the year. This process
is aligned with the requirements of ASC 360 and relies in part on the
Corporation s planning and budgeting cycle. As part of its 2017 annual planning
and budgeting cycle, the Corporation identified emerging trends such as increasing
estimates of available natural gas supplies and ongoing reductions in the
industry s costs of supply for natural gas that resulted in a reduction to the
Corporation s long-term natural gas price outlooks. Based in part on these
trends, the Corporation concluded that events and circumstances indicated that
the carrying value of certain long-lived assets, notably North America natural
gas assets and certain other assets across the remainder of its Upstream
operations, may not be recoverable. Accordingly, an impairment assessment was
performed which indicated that the vast majority of asset groups assessed have
future undiscounted cash flow estimates that exceed their carrying values.
However, the carrying values for certain asset groups in the United States
exceeded the estimated cash flows. As a result, the Corporation s fourth
quarter 2017 results include a before-tax charge of $0.8 billion to reduce the
carrying value of those assets to fair value. The asset groups subject to this
impairment charge are primarily dry gas operations with little additional
development potential. In addition, the Corporation made a decision to cease
development planning activities and further allocation of capital to certain
non-producing assets outside the United States resulting in a before-tax charge
of $0.9 billion to reduce the carrying value of those assets that are included
in Property, Plant and Equipment. Other impairments during the year resulted in
a before-tax charge of $0.3 billion. The impairment charges are recognized primarily
in the line  Depreciation and depletion  on the Consolidated Statement of
Income.   

   The assessment of fair values required the use of Level 3
inputs and assumptions that are based upon the views of a likely market
participant. The principal parameters used to establish fair values included
estimates of both proved and unproved reserves, future commodity prices which
were consistent with the average of third-party industry experts and government
agencies, drilling and development costs, discount rates ranging from 5.5
percent to 8 percent depending on the characteristics of the asset group, and
comparable market transactions. Factors which could put further assets at risk
of impairment in the future include reductions in the Corporation s long-term
price outlooks, changes in the allocation of capital, and operating cost
increases which exceed the pace of efficiencies or the pace of oil and natural
gas price increases. However, due to the inherent difficulty in predicting
future commodity prices, and the relationship between industry prices and
costs, it is not practicable to reasonably estimate the existence or range of
any potential future impairment charges related to the Corporation s long-lived
assets.   

   Accumulated
depreciation and depletion totaled $224,555 million at the end of 2017 and $209,691
million at the end of 2016. Interest capitalized in 2017, 2016 and 2015 was $749
million, $708 million and $482 million, respectively.      

78       

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS

Asset Retirement Obligations    

   The
Corporation incurs retirement obligations for certain assets. The fair values
of these obligations are recorded as liabilities on a discounted basis, which
is typically at the time the assets are installed. In the estimation of fair
value, the Corporation uses assumptions and judgments regarding such factors as
the existence of a legal obligation for an asset retirement obligation;
technical assessments of the assets; estimated amounts and timing of
settlements; discount rates; and inflation rates. Asset retirement obligations
incurred in the current period were Level 3 fair value measurements. The costs
associated with these liabilities are capitalized as part of the related assets
and depreciated as the reserves are produced. Over time, the liabilities are
accreted for the change in their present value.    

   Asset
retirement obligations for downstream and chemical facilities generally become
firm at the time the facilities are permanently shut down and dismantled. These
obligations may include the costs of asset disposal and additional soil
remediation. However, these sites have indeterminate lives based on plans for
continued operations and as such, the fair value of the conditional legal
obligations cannot be measured, since it is impossible to estimate the future
settlement dates of such obligations.      

       The following
table summarizes the activity in the liability for asset retirement
obligations:       

The long-term Asset Retirement Obligations were $11,928 million
and $12,352 million at December 31, 2017, and 2016, respectively, and are
included in Other long-term obligations.             

79       

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS

10. Accounting for Suspended Exploratory
Well Costs    

   The
Corporation continues capitalization of exploratory well costs when the
well has found a sufficient quantity of reserves to justify its completion as a
producing well and the Corporation is making sufficient progress assessing
the reserves and the economic and operating viability of the project. The term
 project  as used in this report can refer to a variety of different activities
and does not necessarily have the same meaning as in any government payment
transparency reports.   

   The
following two tables provide details of the changes in the balance of suspended
exploratory well costs as well as an aging summary of those costs.   

   Change
in capitalized suspended exploratory well costs:      

Period end capitalized suspended exploratory well costs:      

Exploration activity often involves
drilling multiple wells, over a number of years, to fully evaluate a project.
The table below provides a breakdown of the number of projects with only
exploratory well costs capitalized for a period of one year or less and those
that have had exploratory well costs capitalized for a period greater than one
year.     

Of the 46 projects that have exploratory well costs capitalized
for a period greater than one year as of December 31, 2017, 10 projects
have drilling in the preceding year or exploratory activity planned in the next
two years, while the remaining 36 projects are those with completed exploratory
activity progressing toward development.        

80       

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS

The table below provides additional detail
for those 36 projects, which total $1,639 million.     

Years  

Dec. 31,  

Wells  

Country/Project  

2017  

Drilled  

Comment  

(millions of
  dollars)   

Angola  

- AB32 Central
  NE Hub  

69  

2006 - 2014  

Evaluating
  development plan for tieback to existing production facilities.  

- Kaombo Split
  Hub  

20  

2005 - 2006  

Evaluating
  development plan to tie into planned production facilities.  

Phase 2  

-
  Perpetua-Zinia-Acacia  

15  

2008 - 2009  

Oil field near
  Pazflor development, awaiting capacity in existing/planned  

infrastructure.   

Argentina  

- La Invernada  

72  

2014  

Evaluating
  development plan to tie into planned infrastructure.  

Australia  

- East Pilchard  

8  

2001  

Gas field near
  Kipper/Tuna development, awaiting capacity in existing/  

planned
  infrastructure.  

- SE Longtom  

12  

2010   

Gas field near
  Tuna development, awaiting capacity in existing/planned  

infrastructure.   

- SE Remora  

36  

2010   

Gas field near
  Marlin development, awaiting capacity in existing/planned  

infrastructure.   

Indonesia  

- Kedung Keris  

11  

2011  

Development
  activity under way to tie into planned production facilities.  

Iraq  

- Kurdistan
  Pirmam  

109  

2015  

Evaluating
  commercialization alternatives, while waiting for government  

approval to
  enter Gas Holding Period.  

Kazakhstan  

- Kairan  

53  

2004 - 2007  

Evaluating
  commercialization and field development alternatives, while  

continuing
  discussions with the government regarding the development plan.  

- Kalamkas  

18  

2006 - 2009  

Evaluating
  development alternatives, while continuing discussions with the  

government
  regarding development plan.  

Malaysia  

- Bindu  

2  

1995  

Awaiting
  capacity in existing/planned infrastructure.  

Nigeria  

- Bolia  

15  

2002 - 2006  

Evaluating
  development plan, while continuing discussions with the  

government
  regarding regional hub strategy.  

- Bosi  

79  

2002 - 2006  

Development
  activity under way, while continuing discussions with the  

government
  regarding development plan.  

- Bosi Central  

16  

2006  

Development
  activity under way, while continuing discussions with the  

government
  regarding development plan.  

- Erha
  Northeast  

26  

2008  

Evaluating
  development plan for tieback to existing production facilities.  

- OML 138 Ukot
  SW  

41  

2014  

Evaluating
  development plan for tieback to existing production facilities.  

- OML 138 Ukot
  SS  

13  

2015  

Evaluating
  development plan for tieback to existing production facilities.  

- Pegi  

32  

2009   

Awaiting
  capacity in existing/planned infrastructure.  

- Satellite
  Field  

12  

2013   

Evaluating
  development plan to tie into planned production facilities.  

Development
  Phase 2  

- Other (3
  projects)  

7  

2002   

Evaluating and
  pursuing development of several additional discoveries.  

Norway  

- Gamma  

14  

2008 - 2009  

Evaluating
  development plan for tieback to existing production facilities.  

- Lavrans  

16  

1995 - 1999  

Evaluating
  development plan, awaiting capacity in existing Kristin  

production
  facility.  

- Other (7
  projects)  

27  

2008 - 2014  

Evaluating
  development plans, including potential for tieback to existing  

production
  facilities.  

Papua New Guinea  

- Juha  

28  

2007  

Progressing
  development plans to tie into existing LNG facilities.  

81       

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS

11. Leased Facilities     

   At
December 31, 2017, the Corporation and its consolidated subsidiaries held
noncancelable operating charters and leases covering drilling equipment,
tankers, service stations and other properties with minimum undiscounted lease
commitments totaling $4,290 million as indicated in the table. Estimated related
sublease rental income from noncancelable subleases totals $36 million.      

Net rental cost under both cancelable and noncancelable operating
leases incurred during 2017, 2016 and 2015 were as follows:      

82       

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS

12. Earnings Per Share      

(1)   The earnings per common share and earnings per common share
- assuming dilution are the same in each period shown.         

13. Financial Instruments and Derivatives     

    Financial Instruments.      The fair value of financial instruments
is determined by reference to observable market data and other valuation
techniques as appropriate. The only category of financial instruments where the
difference between fair value and recorded book value is notable is long-term
debt. The estimated fair value of total long-term debt, excluding capitalized
lease obligations, was $23.7 billion and $28.0 billion at December 31, 2017,
and 2016, respectively, as compared to recorded book values of $23.1 billion
and $27.7 billion at December 31, 2017, and 2016, respectively.    

   The fair value of long-term debt by
hierarchy level at December 31, 2017, is: Level 1 $23,529 million; Level 2 $170
million; and Level 3 $6 million.     

Derivative Instruments.      The Corporation s size, strong capital
structure, geographic diversity and the complementary nature of the Upstream,
Downstream and Chemical businesses reduce the Corporation s enterprise-wide
risk from changes in interest rates, currency rates and commodity prices. In
addition, the Corporation uses commodity-based contracts, including
derivatives, to manage commodity price risk and for trading purposes. Credit
risk associated with the Corporation s derivative position is mitigated by
several factors, including the use of derivative clearing exchanges and the
quality of and financial limits placed on derivative counterparties. The
Corporation believes that there are no material market or credit risks to the
Corporation s financial position, results of operations or liquidity as a
result of the derivatives. The Corporation maintains a system of controls that
includes the authorization, reporting and monitoring of derivative activity.   

   The
estimated fair value of derivative instruments outstanding and recorded on the
balance sheet was a net liability of $38 million at year-end 2017 and a net liability
of $22 million at year-end 2016. Assets and liabilities associated with
derivatives are usually recorded either in  Other current assets  or  Accounts payable
and accrued liabilities .    

   The
Corporation s fair value measurement of its derivative instruments use either
Level 1 or Level 2 inputs.    

   The
Corporation recognized a before-tax gain or (loss) related to derivative
instruments of $(99) million, $(81) million and $39 million during 2017,
2016 and 2015, respectively. Income statement effects associated with
derivatives are usually recorded either in  Sales and other operating revenue 
or  Crude oil and product purchases .     

83       

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS

14. Long-Term Debt    

   At
December 31, 2017, long-term debt consisted of $23,736 million due
in U.S. dollars and $670 million representing the U.S. dollar equivalent
at year-end exchange rates of amounts payable in foreign currencies. These
amounts exclude that portion of long-term debt, totaling $4,766 million, which
matures within one year and is included in current liabilities. The amounts of
long-term debt, including capitalized lease obligations, maturing in each of
the four years after December 31, 2018, in millions of dollars, are: 2019
  $4,045; 2020   $1,617; 2021   $2,549; and 2022   $1,835.
At December 31, 2017, the Corporation s unused long-term credit lines were $0.2
billion.    

   Summarized
long-term debt at year-end 2017 and 2016 are shown in the table below:      

(1)   Average effective interest rate for debt and average imputed
interest rate for capital leases at December 31, 2017.    

    (2)   Includes premiums of $102 million in
2017 and $138 million in 2016.        

84       

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS

15. Incentive Program    

   The 2003 Incentive Program provides for
grants of stock options, stock appreciation rights (SARs), restricted stock and
other forms of award. Awards may be granted to eligible employees of the
Corporation and those affiliates at least 50 percent owned. Outstanding awards
are subject to certain forfeiture provisions contained in the program or award
instrument. Options and SARs may be granted at prices not less than 100 percent
of market value on the date of grant and have a maximum life of 10 years. The
maximum number of shares of stock that may be issued under the 2003 Incentive
Program is 220 million. Awards that are forfeited, expire or are settled in
cash, do not count against this maximum limit. The 2003 Incentive Program does
not have a specified term. New awards may be made until the available shares
are depleted, unless the Board terminates the plan early. At the end of 2017,
remaining shares available for award under the 2003 Incentive Program were 89     million.     

    Restricted
Stock and Restricted Stock Units.      Awards totaling 8,916 thousand, 9,583 thousand, and 9,681 thousand
of restricted (nonvested) common stock units were granted in 2017, 2016 and 2015,
respectively. Compensation expense for these awards is based on the price of
the stock at the date of grant and is recognized in income over the requisite
service period. Shares for these awards are issued to employees from treasury
stock. The units that are settled in cash are recorded as liabilities and their
changes in fair value are recognized over the vesting period. During the
applicable restricted periods, the shares and units may not be sold or
transferred and are subject to forfeiture. The majority of the awards have
graded vesting periods, with 50 percent of the shares and units in each award
vesting after three years and the remaining 50 percent vesting after seven
years. Awards granted to a small number of senior executives have vesting
periods of five years for 50 percent of the award and of 10 years or
retirement, whichever occurs later, for the remaining 50 percent of the award.    

   The
Corporation has purchased shares in the open market and through negotiated
transactions to offset shares or units settled in shares issued in conjunction
with benefit plans and programs. Purchases may be discontinued at any time
without prior notice.   

   The
following tables summarize information about restricted stock and restricted
stock units for the year ended December 31, 2017.      

As of December 31, 2017, there was $2,049
million of unrecognized compensation cost related to the nonvested restricted
awards. This cost is expected to be recognized over a weighted-average period
of 4.5 years. The compensation cost charged against income for the restricted
stock and restricted stock units was $856 million, $880 million and $855 million
for 2017, 2016 and 2015, respectively. The income tax benefit recognized in
income related to this compensation expense was $78 million, $80 million
and $78 million for the same periods, respectively. The fair value of shares
and units vested in 2017, 2016 and 2015 was $826 million, $851 million and $808
million, respectively. Cash payments of $64 million, $67 million and $64
million for vested restricted stock units settled in cash were made in 2017,
2016 and 2015, respectively.     

85       

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS

16. Litigation and Other Contingencies    

    Litigation.      A
variety of claims have been made against ExxonMobil and certain of its
consolidated subsidiaries in a number of pending lawsuits. Management has
regular litigation reviews, including updates from corporate and outside
counsel, to assess the need for accounting recognition or disclosure of these
contingencies. The Corporation accrues an undiscounted liability for those
contingencies where the incurrence of a loss is probable and the amount can be
reasonably estimated. If a range of amounts can be reasonably estimated and no
amount within the range is a better estimate than any other amount, then the
minimum of the range is accrued. The Corporation does not record liabilities
when the likelihood that the liability has been incurred is probable but the
amount cannot be reasonably estimated or when the liability is believed to be
only reasonably possible or remote. For contingencies where an unfavorable
outcome is reasonably possible and which are significant, the Corporation
discloses the nature of the contingency and, where feasible, an estimate of the
possible loss. For purposes of our contingency disclosures,  significant 
includes material matters, as well as other matters, which management believes
should be disclosed. ExxonMobil will continue to defend itself vigorously in
these matters. Based on a consideration of all relevant facts and
circumstances, the Corporation does not believe the ultimate outcome of any
currently pending lawsuit against ExxonMobil will have a material adverse
effect upon the Corporation s operations, financial condition, or financial
statements taken as a whole.   

    Other Contingencies.      The Corporation and certain of its
consolidated subsidiaries were contingently liable at December 31, 2017,
for guarantees relating to notes, loans and performance under contracts. Where
guarantees for environmental remediation and other similar matters do not
include a stated cap, the amounts reflect management s estimate of the maximum
potential exposure.     

Additionally, the Corporation and its affiliates have numerous
long-term sales and purchase commitments in their various business activities,
all of which are expected to be fulfilled with no adverse consequences material
to the Corporation s operations or financial condition.     

   In accordance with a nationalization
decree issued by Venezuela s president in February 2007, by May 1, 2007,
a subsidiary of the Venezuelan National Oil Company (PdVSA) assumed the
operatorship of the Cerro Negro Heavy Oil Project. This Project had been
operated and owned by ExxonMobil affiliates holding a 41.67 percent ownership
interest in the Project. The decree also required conversion of the Cerro Negro
Project into a  mixed enterprise  and an increase in PdVSA s or one of its
affiliate s ownership interest in the Project, with the stipulation that if ExxonMobil
refused to accept the terms for the formation of the mixed enterprise within a
specified period of time, the government would  directly assume the activities 
carried out by the joint venture. ExxonMobil refused to accede to the terms
proffered by the government, and on June 27, 2007, the government
expropriated ExxonMobil s 41.67 percent interest in the Cerro Negro Project.   

   On September 6, 2007, affiliates
of ExxonMobil filed a Request for Arbitration with the International Centre for
Settlement of Investment Disputes (ICSID). The ICSID Tribunal issued a decision
on June 10, 2010, finding that it had jurisdiction to proceed on the
basis of the Netherlands-Venezuela Bilateral Investment Treaty. On October 9, 2014,
the ICSID Tribunal issued its final award finding in favor of the ExxonMobil
affiliates and awarding $1.6 billion as of the date of expropriation, June 27, 2007,
and interest from that date at 3.25 percent compounded annually until the date
of payment in full. The Tribunal also noted that one of the Cerro Negro Project
agreements provides a mechanism to prevent double recovery between the ICSID
award and all or part of an earlier award of $908 million to an ExxonMobil
affiliate, Mobil Cerro Negro, Ltd., against PdVSA and a PdVSA affiliate, PdVSA
CN, in an arbitration under the rules of the International Chamber of Commerce.   

   On
February 2, 2015, Venezuela filed a Request for Annulment of the
ICSID award. On March 9, 2017, the ICSID Committee hearing the
Request for Annulment issued a decision partially annulling the award of the
Tribunal issued on October 9, 2014. The Committee affirmed the
compensation due for the La Ceiba project and for export curtailments at the
Cerro Negro project, but annulled the portion of the award relating to the
Cerro Negro Project s expropriation ($1.4 billion) based on its determination
that the prior Tribunal failed to adequately explain why the cap on damages in
the indemnity owed by PdVSA did not affect or limit the amount owed for the
expropriation of the Cerro Negro project. As a result, ExxonMobil retains an
award for $260 million (including accrued interest). ExxonMobil reached an
agreement with Venezuela for full payment of the $260 million and Venezuela has
begun performing on it. The agreement does not impact ExxonMobil s ability to
re-arbitrate the issue that was the basis for the annulment in a new ICSID
arbitration proceeding.

86       

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS

The United States District Court for the
Southern District of New York entered judgment on the ICSID award on October 10, 2014.
Motions filed by Venezuela to vacate that judgment on procedural grounds and to
modify the judgment by reducing the rate of interest to be paid on the ICSID
award from the entry of the court s judgment, until the date of payment, were
denied on February 13, 2015, and March 4, 2015,
respectively. On March 9, 2015, Venezuela filed a notice of appeal of
the court s actions on the two motions. On July 11, 2017, the United
States Court of Appeals for the Second Circuit rendered its opinion overturning
the District Court s decision and vacating the judgment on the grounds that a
different procedure should have been used to reduce the award to judgment. The
Corporation is evaluating next steps.   

   A
stay of the District Court s judgment has continued pending the completion of
the Second Circuit appeal. The net impact of these matters on the Corporation s
consolidated financial results cannot be reasonably estimated. Regardless, the
Corporation does not expect the resolution to have a material effect upon the
Corporation s operations or financial condition.   

       An affiliate of ExxonMobil is one of the Contractors under
a Production Sharing Contract (PSC) with the Nigerian National Petroleum
Corporation (NNPC) covering the Erha block located in the offshore waters of
Nigeria. ExxonMobil's affiliate is the operator of the block and owns a 56.25
percent interest under the PSC. The Contractors are in dispute with NNPC
regarding NNPC's lifting of crude oil in excess of its entitlement under the
terms of the PSC. In accordance with the terms of the PSC, the Contractors
initiated arbitration in Abuja, Nigeria, under the Nigerian Arbitration and
Conciliation Act. On October 24, 2011, a three-member arbitral
Tribunal issued an award upholding the Contractors' position in all material
respects and awarding damages to the Contractors jointly in an amount of
approximately $1.8 billion plus $234 million in accrued interest. The
Contractors petitioned a Nigerian federal court for enforcement of the award,
and NNPC petitioned the same court to have the award set aside. On May 22, 2012,
the court set aside the award. The Contractors appealed that judgment to the
Court of Appeal, Abuja Judicial Division. On July 22, 2016, the Court
of Appeal upheld the decision of the lower court setting aside the award. On
October 21, 2016, the Contractors appealed the decision to the
Supreme Court of Nigeria. In June 2013, the Contractors filed a lawsuit against
NNPC in the Nigerian federal high court in order to preserve their ability to
seek enforcement of the PSC in the courts if necessary. Following dismissal by
this court, the Contractors appealed to the Nigerian Court of Appeal in June
2016. In October 2014, the Contractors filed suit in the United States District
Court for the Southern District of New York to enforce, if necessary, the
arbitration award against NNPC assets residing within that jurisdiction. NNPC
has moved to dismiss the lawsuit. The stay in the proceedings in the Southern
District of New York has been lifted. At this time, the net impact of this
matter on the Corporation's consolidated financial results cannot be reasonably
estimated. However, regardless of the outcome of enforcement proceedings, the
Corporation does not expect the proceedings to have a material effect upon the
Corporation's operations or financial condition.     

87       

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS

17. Pension and Other Postretirement
Benefits    

   The
benefit obligations and plan assets associated with the Corporation s principal
benefit plans are measured on December 31.      

(1)           Benefit
payments for funded and unfunded plans.    

    (2)           For 2017 and 2016, other postretirement benefits paid are
net of $16 million and $22 million of Medicare subsidy receipts, respectively.        

For selection of the discount rate for
U.S. plans, several sources of information are considered, including interest
rate market indicators and the effective discount rate determined by use of a
yield curve based on high-quality, noncallable bonds applied to the estimated
cash outflows for benefit payments. For major non-U.S. plans, the discount rate
is determined by using a spot yield curve of high-quality,
local-currency-denominated bonds at an average maturity approximating that of
the liabilities.    

   The measurement of the accumulated
postretirement benefit obligation assumes a health care cost trend rate of 4.5
percent in 2019 and subsequent years. A one-percentage-point increase in the health
care cost trend rate would increase service and interest cost by $72 million
and the postretirement benefit obligation by $696 million. A
one-percentage-point decrease in the health care cost trend rate would decrease
service and interest cost by $53 million and the postretirement benefit
obligation by $536 million.     

(1)   Benefit payments for funded plans.         

88       

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS

The funding levels of all qualified
pension plans are in compliance with standards set by applicable law or
regulation. As shown in the table below, certain smaller U.S. pension plans and
a number of non-U.S. pension plans are not funded because local applicable tax rules
and regulatory practices do not encourage funding of these plans. All
defined benefit pension obligations, regardless of the funding status
of the underlying plans, are fully supported by the financial strength
of the Corporation or the respective sponsoring affiliate.      

The authoritative guidance for defined
benefit pension and other postretirement plans requires an employer to
recognize the overfunded or underfunded status of a defined benefit
postretirement plan as an asset or liability in its statement of financial position
and to recognize changes in that funded status in the year in which the changes
occur through other comprehensive income.      

(1)     Fair value of assets less benefit obligation shown on the
preceding page.        

89       

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS

The long-term expected rate of return on funded assets shown below
is established for each benefit plan by developing a forward looking,
long-term return assumption for each asset class, taking into account
factors such as the expected real return for the specific asset class and
inflation. A single, long-term rate of return is then calculated as the
weighted average of the target asset allocation percentages and the long-term
return assumption for each asset class.     

Costs for defined contribution plans were $384
million, $399 million and $405 million in 2017, 2016 and 2015, respectively.      

90       

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS

A summary of
the change in accumulated other comprehensive income is shown in the table
below:       

The Corporation s investment strategy for
benefit plan assets reflects a long-term view, a careful assessment of the
risks inherent in plan assets and liabilities and broad diversification to
reduce the risk of the portfolio. The benefit plan assets are primarily
invested in passive global equity and local currency fixed income index
funds to diversify risk while minimizing costs. The equity funds hold
ExxonMobil stock only to the extent necessary to replicate the relevant equity
index. The fixed income funds are largely invested in investment grade
corporate and government debt securities.    

   Studies
are periodically conducted to establish the preferred target asset allocation
percentages. The target asset allocation for the U.S. benefit plans and the major
non-U.S. plans is 30 percent equity securities and 70 percent debt securities.
The equity targets for the U.S. and certain non-U.S. plans include a small
allocation to private equity partnerships that primarily focus on early-stage
venture capital of 5 percent and 3 percent, respectively.    

   The
fair value measurement levels are accounting terms that refer to different
methods of valuing assets. The terms do not represent the relative risk or
credit quality of an investment.      

91       

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS

The 2017 fair value of the benefit plan assets, including the
level within the fair value hierarchy, is shown in the tables below:      

(1)   Per ASU 2015-07, certain instruments that are measured at
fair value using the Net Asset Value (NAV) per share practical expedient have
not been categorized in the fair value hierarchy. The fair value amounts
presented in this table are intended to permit reconciliation of the fair value
hierarchy to the total value of plan assets.     

    (2)   For non-U.S. equity securities held
in separate accounts, fair value is based on observable quoted prices on active
exchanges.     

    (3)   For corporate, government and
asset-backed debt securities, fair value is based on observable inputs of
comparable market transactions.    

    (4)   For government debt securities that
are traded on active exchanges, fair value is based on observable quoted
prices.     

    (5)   For cash balances that are subject
to withdrawal penalties or other adjustments, the fair value is treated as a
Level 2 input.     

92       

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS

(1)  Per ASU 2015-07, certain instruments that are measured at
fair value using the Net Asset Value (NAV) per share practical expedient have
not been categorized in the fair value hierarchy. The fair value amounts
presented in this table are intended to permit reconciliation of the fair value
hierarchy to the total value of plan assets.    

    (2)  For corporate, government and
asset-backed debt securities, fair value is based on observable inputs of
comparable market transactions.         

93       

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS

The 2016 fair value of the benefit plan
assets, including the level within the fair value hierarchy, is shown in the
tables below:     

(1)   Per ASU 2015-07, certain instruments that are measured at
fair value using the Net Asset Value (NAV) per share practical expedient have
not been categorized in the fair value hierarchy. The fair value amounts
presented in this table are intended to permit reconciliation of the fair value
hierarchy to the total value of plan assets.          

    (2)   For non-U.S. equity securities held
in separate accounts, fair value is based on observable quoted prices on active
exchanges.          

    (3)   For U.S. and non-U.S. equity
securities held in the form of fund units that are redeemable at the
measurement date, the published unit value is treated as a Level 2 input. The
fair value of the securities owned by the funds is based on observable quoted
prices on active exchanges, which are Level 1 inputs.          

    (4)   For corporate, government and
asset-backed debt securities, fair value is based on observable inputs of
comparable market transactions.          

    (5)   For government debt securities that
are traded on active exchanges, fair value is based on observable quoted
prices.          

    (6)   For cash balances that are subject
to withdrawal penalties or other adjustments, the fair value is treated as a
Level 2 input.          

94       

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS

(1)   Per ASU 2015-07, certain instruments that are measured at
fair value using the Net Asset Value (NAV) per share practical expedient have
not been categorized in the fair value hierarchy. The fair value amounts
presented in this table are intended to permit reconciliation of the fair value
hierarchy to the total value of plan assets.     

    (2)   For corporate, government and
asset-backed debt securities, fair value is based on observable inputs of
comparable market transactions.         

95       

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS

A summary of pension plans with an
accumulated benefit obligation in excess of plan assets is shown in the table
below:     

(1)   The Corporation amortizes the net balance of actuarial
losses/(gains) as a component of net periodic benefit cost over the average
remaining service period of active plan participants.     

    (2)   The Corporation amortizes prior
service cost on a straight-line basis as permitted under authoritative guidance
for defined benefit pension and other postretirement benefit plans.         

18. Disclosures about Segments and Related
Information     

   The
Upstream, Downstream and Chemical functions best define the operating segments
of the business that are reported separately. The factors used to identify
these reportable segments are based on the nature of the operations that are
undertaken by each segment. The Upstream segment is organized and operates to
explore for and produce crude oil and natural gas. The Downstream segment is
organized and operates to manufacture and sell petroleum products. The Chemical
segment is organized and operates to manufacture and sell petrochemicals. These
segments are broadly understood across the petroleum and petrochemical
industries.    

   These
functions have been defined as the operating segments of the Corporation
because they are the segments (1) that engage in business activities from
which revenues are earned and expenses are incurred; (2) whose operating
results are regularly reviewed by the Corporation s chief operating decision
maker to make decisions about resources to be allocated to the segment and to
assess its performance; and (3) for which discrete financial information
is available.    

   Earnings
after income tax include transfers at estimated market prices.

96       

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS

In corporate and financing activities,
interest revenue relates to interest earned on cash deposits and
marketable securities. Interest expense includes non-debt-related
interest expense of $136 million in 2017, $63 million in 2016 and $100 million
in 2015.     

(1)  Sales
and other operating revenue excludes previously reported sales-based taxes of
$17,980 million for 2016 and $19,634 million for 2015. See Note 2: Accounting
Changes.         

97       

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS

(1)            Sales and other operating revenue excludes
previously reported sales-based taxes of $17,980 million for 2016 and $19,634
million for 2015. See Note 2: Accounting Changes.        

98       

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS

19. Income and Other Taxes      

Sales-based taxes were previously reported gross on the income
statement and included in total taxes in the above table. See Note 2:
Accounting Changes.             

The above provisions for deferred income
taxes include a net credit of $5,920 million in 2017, reflecting a $5,942
million credit related to U.S. tax reform and $22 million of other changes in
tax laws and rates outside of the United States. Deferred income tax expense
also includes net charges of $180 million in 2016 and $177 million in 2015 for
the effect of changes in tax laws and rates.    

   Following the December 22, 2017, enactment
of the U.S. Tax Cuts and Jobs Act, in accordance with Accounting Standard
Codification Topic 740    (Income Taxes)    and following guidance outlined in
the SEC Staff Accounting Bulletin No. 118, the Corporation has included
reasonable estimates of the income tax effects of the changes in tax law and
tax rate. These include amounts for the remeasurement of the deferred income
tax balance from the reduction in the corporate tax rate from 35 to 21 percent
and the mandatory deemed repatriation of undistributed foreign earnings and
profits. The Corporation has paid taxes on earnings outside the United States
at tax rates on average above the historical U.S. rate of 35 percent. As a
result, the deemed repatriation tax does not create a significant tax impact
for ExxonMobil. The impact of tax law changes on the Corporation s financial
statements could differ from its estimates due to further analysis of the new
law, regulatory guidance, technical corrections legislation, or guidance under
U.S. GAAP. If significant changes occur, the Corporation will provide updated
information in connection with future regulatory filings.     

99       

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS

The reconciliation between income tax
expense and a theoretical U.S. tax computed by applying a rate of 35
percent for 2017, 2016 and 2015 is as follows:     

(1)  2016 includes a $227 million expense from an adjustment to
deferred taxes and a $548 million benefit from an adjustment to a tax position
in prior years.    

    (2)  2017 includes an exploration tax
benefit of $708 million. 2016 includes an exploration tax benefit of $198
million and benefits from an adjustment to a prior year tax position of $176
million.              

100       

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS

Deferred income taxes reflect the impact of temporary differences
between the amount of assets and liabilities recognized for financial reporting
purposes and such amounts recognized for tax purposes. Balances at December 31,
2017, reflect the deferred income tax effects from the enactment of the U.S.
Tax Cuts and Jobs Act of 2017.       The Corporation has elected to account for the tax on global
intangible low-taxed income (GILTI) as a tax expense in the period in which it
is incurred.     

   Deferred tax liabilities/(assets) are
comprised of the following at December 31:      

In 2017, asset valuation allowances of
$2,565 million increased by $1,056 million and included net provisions of $502
million, $402 million recorded in the acquisition of InterOil Corporation, and
effects of foreign currency translation of $152 million.           

The Corporation s earnings from subsidiary
companies outside the United States were subject to the deemed repatriation
required by the U.S. Tax Cuts and Jobs Act of 2017. Those amounts continue to
be indefinitely reinvested and are retained to fund prior and future capital
project expenditures. Deferred income taxes have not been recorded for certain additional
future tax obligations, such as foreign withholding tax and state tax, as these
earnings are expected to be indefinitely reinvested for the foreseeable future.
As of December 31, 2017, it is not practicable to estimate the unrecognized
deferred income tax liability.     

101       

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS

Unrecognized Tax Benefits.      The Corporation is subject to income taxation in many
jurisdictions around the world. Unrecognized tax benefits reflect the
difference between positions taken or expected to be taken on income tax
returns and the amounts recognized in the financial statements. The following
table summarizes the movement in unrecognized tax benefits:      

The gross unrecognized tax benefit
balances shown above are predominantly related to tax positions that would
reduce the Corporation s effective tax rate if the positions are favorably
resolved. Unfavorable resolution of these tax positions generally would not
increase the effective tax rate. The 2017, 2016 and 2015 changes in
unrecognized tax benefits did not have a material effect on the Corporation s
net income.    

   Resolution
of these tax positions through negotiations with the relevant tax authorities
or through litigation will take many years to complete. It is difficult to
predict the timing of resolution for tax positions since such timing is not
entirely within the control of the Corporation. In the United States, the
Corporation has various ongoing U.S. federal income tax positions at issue with
the Internal Revenue Service (IRS) for tax years beginning in 2006. The IRS has
asserted penalties associated with several of those positions. The Corporation
has not recognized the penalties as an expense because the Corporation does not
expect the penalties to be sustained under applicable law. The Corporation has
filed a refund suit for tax years 2006-2009 in a U.S. federal district court
with respect to the positions at issue for those years. Unfavorable resolution
of all positions at issue with the IRS would not have a materially adverse
effect on the Corporation s net income or liquidity.   

   It
is reasonably possible that the total amount of unrecognized tax benefits could
increase or decrease by 10 percent in the next 12 months with no material
impact on the Corporation's net income.   

   The following table summarizes the tax years that remain
subject to examination by major tax jurisdiction:      

The Corporation classifies interest on
income tax-related balances as interest expense or interest income and
classifies tax-related penalties as operating expense.    

   The Corporation
incurred $36 million, $4 million and $39 million in interest expense on income
tax reserves in 2017, 2016 and 2015, respectively. The related interest payable
balances were $168 million and $191 million at December 31, 2017, and 2016,
respectively.     

102       

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS

20. Acquisitions

InterOil Corporation    

   On February 22, 2017, the Corporation
completed the acquisition of InterOil Corporation (IOC) for $2.7 billion. The
IOC acquisition was mostly unproved properties in Papua New Guinea.
Consideration included 28 million shares of Exxon Mobil Corporation common
stock having a value on the acquisition date of $2.2 billion, a Contingent
Resource Payment (CRP) with a fair value of $0.3 billion and cash of $0.2
billion. The CRP provided IOC shareholders $7.07 per share in cash for each
incremental independently certified Trillion Cubic Feet Equivalent (TCFE) of
resources above 6.2 TCFE, up to 11.0 TCFE. IOC s assets include a contingent
receivable related to the same resource base for volumes in excess of 3.5 TCFE
at amounts ranging from $0.24 - $0.40 per thousand cubic feet equivalent. The
fair value of the contingent receivable was $1.1 billion at the acquisition
date. Fair values of contingent amounts were based on assumptions about the
outcome of the resource certification, future business plans and appropriate
discount rates.    

   On September 6, 2017, the resource
certification was finalized triggering both payment of the CRP to former IOC
shareholders and receipt of the current portion of the contingent receivable.
The earnings impact from settlement of the CRP and the related contingent
receivable was not material.    

Permian Basin Properties    

   On February 28, 2017, the Corporation
completed the acquisition for $6.2 billion of a number of companies from the
Bass family in Fort Worth, Texas, that indirectly own mostly unproved oil and
gas properties in the Permian Basin. Consideration included 68 million shares
of Exxon Mobil Corporation common stock having a value on the acquisition date
of $5.5 billion, together with additional contingent cash payments tied to
future drilling and completion activities (up to a maximum of $1.02 billion). Fair
value of the contingent payment was $0.7 billion as of the acquisition date and
is expected to be paid beginning in 2020 and ending no later than 2032
commensurate with development of the resource. Fair value of the contingent
payment was based on assumptions including drilling and completion activities,
appropriate discount rates and tax rates.   

   The fair value of the contingent payment
is adjusted each quarter. The earnings impact from these adjustments was not
material.   

   Below is a summary of the net assets
acquired for each acquisition.     

103       

SUPPLEMENTAL              INFORMATION      
       ON              OIL              AND              GAS              EXPLORATION      
       AND              PRODUCTION      
       ACTIVITIES              (unaudited)       

The
results of operations for producing activities shown below do not include
earnings from other activities that ExxonMobil includes in the Upstream
function, such as oil and gas transportation operations, LNG liquefaction and
transportation operations, coal and power operations, technical service
agreements, other nonoperating activities and adjustments for noncontrolling
interests. These excluded amounts for both consolidated and equity companies
totaled $1,402 million in 2017, $719 million in 2016, and $831 million in 2015.
Oil sands mining operations are included in the results of operations in
accordance with Securities and Exchange Commission and Financial Accounting
Standards Board rules.   

104       

105       

Oil and Gas Exploration and Production
Costs    

   The amounts shown for net capitalized
costs of consolidated subsidiaries are $15,292 million less at year-end 2017
and $15,239 million less at year-end 2016 than the amounts reported as
investments in property, plant and equipment for the Upstream in Note 9.
This is due to the exclusion from capitalized costs of certain
transportation and research assets and assets relating to LNG operations.
Assets related to oil sands and oil shale mining operations are included
in the capitalized costs in accordance with Financial Accounting Standards
Board rules.   

106       

Oil and Gas Exploration and Production
Costs (continued)    

   The
amounts reported as costs incurred include both capitalized costs and costs
charged to expense during the year. Costs incurred also include new asset
retirement obligations established in the current year, as well as increases or
decreases to the asset retirement obligation resulting from changes in cost
estimates or abandonment date. Total consolidated costs incurred in 2017 were $19,644 million,
up $8,269 million from 2016, due primarily to acquisitions of unproved
properties, partially offset by lower development costs including lower asset
retirement obligation cost estimates mainly in the North Sea. In 2016 costs
were $11,375 million, down $10,512 million from 2015, due primarily to lower
development costs. Total equity company costs incurred in 2017 were $6,008
million, up $4,602 million from 2016, due primarily to acquisition of unproved
properties.    

107       

Oil and Gas Reserves    

   The following information describes
changes during the years and balances of proved oil and gas reserves at
year-end 2015, 2016, and 2017.    

   The
definitions used are in accordance with the Securities and Exchange
Commission s Rule 4-10 (a) of Regulation S-X.    

   Proved
oil and natural gas reserves are those quantities of oil and natural gas,
which, by analysis of geoscience and engineering data, can be estimated with
reasonable certainty to be economically producible   from a given date forward,
from known reservoirs, and under existing economic conditions, operating
methods and government regulations   prior to the time at which contracts
providing the right to operate expire, unless evidence indicates that renewal
is reasonably certain. In some cases, substantial new investments in additional
wells and related facilities will be required to recover these proved reserves.

In
accordance with the Securities and Exchange Commission s (SEC) rules, the
Corporation s year-end reserves volumes as well as the reserves change
categories shown in the following tables are required to be calculated on the
basis of average prices during the 12-month period prior to the ending date of
the period covered by the report, determined as an unweighted arithmetic
average of the first-day-of-the-month price for each month within such period.
These reserves quantities are also used in calculating unit of-production
depreciation rates and in calculating the standardized measure of discounted
net cash flow.    

   Revisions
can include upward or downward changes in previously estimated volumes of
proved reserves for existing fields due to the evaluation or re-evaluation of
(1) already available geologic, reservoir or production data, (2) new
geologic, reservoir or production data or (3) changes in the average of
first-of-month oil and natural gas prices and / or costs that are used in the
estimation of reserves. Revisions can also result from significant changes in
either development strategy or production equipment/facility capacity. Reserve
volumes that were subject to a downward revision can be revised upward at some
point in the future when price levels increase, costs decline, and / or
operating efficiencies occur.    

   Proved
reserves include 100 percent of each majority-owned affiliate s participation
in proved reserves and ExxonMobil s ownership percentage of the proved reserves
of equity companies, but exclude royalties and quantities due others. Natural gas
reserves exclude the gaseous equivalent of liquids expected to be removed from
the natural gas on leases, at field facilities and at gas processing plants.
These liquids are included in net proved reserves of crude oil and natural gas
liquids.    

   In
the proved reserves tables, consolidated reserves and equity company reserves
are reported separately. However, the Corporation does not view equity company
reserves any differently than those from consolidated companies.    

   Reserves
reported under production sharing and other nonconcessionary agreements are
based on the economic interest as defined by the specific fiscal terms in the
agreement. The production and reserves that we report for these types of
arrangements typically vary inversely with oil and natural gas price changes.
As oil and natural gas prices increase, the cash flow and value received by the
company increase; however, the production volumes and reserves required to
achieve this value will typically be lower because of the higher prices. When
prices decrease, the opposite effect generally occurs. The percentage of total
liquids and natural gas proved reserves (consolidated subsidiaries plus equity
companies) at year-end 2017 that were associated with production sharing
contract arrangements was 12 percent of liquids, 10 percent of natural gas and 11
percent on an oil-equivalent basis (natural gas converted to oil-equivalent at
6 billion cubic feet = 1 million barrels).    

   Net
proved developed reserves are those volumes that are expected to be recovered
through existing wells with existing equipment and operating methods or in
which the cost of the required equipment is relatively minor compared to the
cost of a new well. Net proved undeveloped reserves are those volumes that are
expected to be recovered from new wells on undrilled acreage, or from existing
wells where a relatively major expenditure is required for recompletion.    

   Crude
oil and natural gas liquids and natural gas production quantities shown are the
net volumes withdrawn from ExxonMobil s oil and natural gas reserves. The
natural gas quantities differ from the quantities of natural gas delivered for
sale by the producing function as reported in the Operating Information due to
volumes consumed or flared and inventory changes.   

   The
changes between 2017 year-end proved reserves and 2016 year-end proved reserves
primarily reflect extensions/discoveries in the United States, Guyana, and the
United Arab Emirates, as well as purchases in the Permian Basin and offshore
Area 4 in Mozambique, along with upward revisions to North America natural gas,
liquids in the United Arab Emirates, and bitumen at Kearl and Cold Lake.
Downward revisions are reflected in Europe for the Groningen gas field.    

   The
downward revisions in 2016, as the result of very low prices during 2016,
include the entire 3.5 billion barrels of bitumen at Kearl. In addition, 0.8
billion barrels of oil equivalent across the remainder of North America no
longer qualified as proved reserves at year-end 2016 mainly due to the
acceleration of the projected end-of-field-life.    

108       

(      See       footnote on next page)     

109       

(1)   Includes total proved reserves
attributable to Imperial Oil Limited of 7 million barrels in 2015, 7 million
barrels in 2016 and 10 million barrels in 2017, as well as proved developed
reserves of 4 million barrels in 2015, 4 million barrels in 2016 and 3 million
barrels in 2017, and in addition, proved undeveloped reserves of 3 million
barrels in 2015, 3 million barrels in 2016 and 7 million barrels in 2017, in
which there is a 30.4 percent noncontrolling interest.    

110       

(1)   Includes total proved reserves
attributable to Imperial Oil Limited of 34 million barrels in 2015, 35 million
barrels in 2016 and 45 million barrels in 2017, as well as proved developed
reserves of 23 million barrels in 2015, 19 million barrels in 2016 and 10
million barrels in 2017, and in addition, proved undeveloped reserves of 11
million barrels in 2015, 16 million barrels in 2016 and 35 million barrels in
2017, in which there is a 30.4 percent noncontrolling interest.     

    (2)   Includes total proved reserves
attributable to Imperial Oil Limited of 3,515 million barrels in 2015, 701
million barrels in 2016 and 946 million barrels in 2017, as well as proved
developed reserves of 3,063 million barrels in 2015, 436 million barrels in 2016
and 591 million barrels in 2017, and in addition, proved undeveloped reserves
of 452 million barrels in 2015, 265 million barrels in 2016 and 355 million
barrels in 2017, in which there is a 30.4 percent noncontrolling interest.     

    (3)   Includes total proved reserves
attributable to Imperial Oil Limited of 581 million barrels in 2015, 564
million barrels in 2016 and 473 million barrels in 2017, as well as proved
developed reserves of 581 million barrels in 2015, 564 million barrels in 2016
and 473 million barrels in 2017, in which there is a 30.4 percent
noncontrolling interest.     

    (4)   See previous pages for natural gas
liquids proved reserves attributable to consolidated subsidiaries and equity
companies. For additional information on natural gas liquids proved reserves
see Item 2. Properties in ExxonMobil s 2017 Form 10-K.     

111       

(See footnotes
on next page)     

112       

(1)   Includes total proved reserves
attributable to Imperial Oil Limited of 583 billion cubic feet in 2015, 495
billion cubic feet in 2016 and 641 billion cubic feet in 2017, as well as
proved developed reserves of 283 billion cubic feet in 2015, 263 billion cubic
feet in 2016 and 282 billion cubic feet in 2017, and in addition, proved
undeveloped reserves of 300 billion cubic feet in 2015, 232 billion cubic feet
in 2016 and 359 billion cubic feet in 2017, in which there is a 30.4 percent
noncontrolling interest.     

    (2)   Natural gas is converted to
oil-equivalent basis at six million cubic feet per one thousand barrels.     

113       

(See footnotes
on previous page)     

114       

Standardized Measure of Discounted Future Cash Flows    

   As required by the Financial Accounting
Standards Board, the standardized measure of discounted future net cash flows
is computed by applying first-day-of-the-month average prices,
year-end costs and legislated tax rates and a discount factor of 10 percent
to net proved reserves. The standardized measure includes costs for
future dismantlement, abandonment and rehabilitation obligations.
The Corporation believes the standardized measure does not provide
a reliable estimate of the Corporation s expected future cash flows to be
obtained from the development and production of its oil and gas properties or
of the value of its proved oil and gas reserves. The standardized measure is
prepared on the basis of certain prescribed assumptions including
first-day-of-the-month average prices, which represent discrete points in time
and therefore may cause significant variability in cash flows from year to year
as prices change.    

(1)   Includes discounted future net cash
flows attributable to Imperial Oil Limited of $5,607 million in 2015, in which
there is a 30.4 percent noncontrolling interest.     

115       

(1)   Includes discounted future net cash
flows attributable to Imperial Oil Limited of $2,322 million in 2016 and $3,344
million in 2017, in which there is a 30.4 percent noncontrolling interest.     

116       

Change in Standardized Measure of
Discounted Future Net Cash Flows Relating to Proved Oil and Gas Reserves    

(1)        
    Securities and Exchange
Commission (SEC) rules require the
Corporation s reserves to be calculated on the basis of average first-of-month
oil and natural gas prices during the reporting year. As a result of very low
prices during 2016, under the SEC definition of proved reserves, certain
quantities of oil and natural gas that qualified as proved reserves in prior
years did not qualify as proved reserves at year-end 2016. Future net cash
flows for these quantities are excluded from the 2016 Standardized Measure of Discounted
Future Cash Flows. Substantially all of this reduction in discounted future net
cash flows since December 31, 2015, is reflected in the line  Net change in
prices, lifting and development costs  in the table above.   

117       

Change in Standardized Measure of
Discounted Future Net Cash Flows Relating to Proved Oil and Gas Reserves    

118       

OPERATING INFORMATION (unaudited)             

Operating statistics include 100 percent
of operations of majority-owned subsidiaries; for other companies, crude
production, gas, petroleum product and chemical prime product sales include
ExxonMobil s ownership percentage and refining throughput includes quantities
processed for ExxonMobil. Net production excludes royalties and quantities due
others when produced, whether payment is made in kind or cash.     

    (1)   Gas converted to oil-equivalent at
6 million cubic feet = 1 thousand barrels.          

    (2)   Petroleum product and chemical prime
product sales data reported net of purchases/sales contracts with the same
counterparty.          

119       

INDEX TO EXHIBITS     

Exhibit   

Description   

3(i)    

Restated
  Certificate of Incorporation, as restated November 30, 1999, and as
  further amended effective June 20, 2001 (incorporated by reference to Exhibit
  3(i) to the Registrant s Annual Report on Form 10-K for 2015).  

3(ii)    

By-Laws, as
  revised effective November 1, 2017 (incorporated by reference to Exhibit
  3(ii) to the Registrant s Report on Form 8-K of October 31, 2017).  

10(iii)(a.1)    

2003 Incentive
  Program, as approved by shareholders May 28, 2003.*  

10(iii)(a.2)    

Extended
  Provisions for Restricted Stock Agreements (incorporated by reference to
  Exhibit 10(iii)(a.2) to the Registrant s Annual Report on Form 10-K for 2016).*  

10(iii)(a.3)    

Extended
  Provisions for Restricted Stock Unit Agreements   Settlement in Shares.*  

10(iii)(b.1)    

Short Term
  Incentive Program, as amended (incorporated by reference to Exhibit
  10(iii)(b.1) to the Registrant s Annual Report on Form 10-K for 2013).*  

10(iii)(b.2)    

Earnings Bonus
  Unit instrument.*  

10(iii)(c.1)    

ExxonMobil
  Supplemental Savings Plan (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10(iii)(c.1)
  to the Registrant s Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the quarter ended June
  30, 2017).*  

10(iii)(c.2)    

ExxonMobil
  Supplemental Pension Plan (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10(iii)(c.2)
  to the Registrant s Annual Report on Form 10-K for 2014).*  

10(iii)(c.3)    

ExxonMobil
  Additional Payments Plan (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10(iii)(c.3)
  to the Registrant s Annual Report on Form 10-K for 2013).*  

10(iii)(d)    

ExxonMobil
  Executive Life Insurance and Death Benefit Plan (incorporated by reference to
  Exhibit 10(iii)(d) to the Registrant s Annual Report on Form 10-K for 2016).*  

10(iii)(f.1)    

2004
  Non-Employee Director Restricted Stock Plan (incorporated by reference to
  Exhibit 10(iii)(f.1) to the Registrant s Annual Report on Form 10-K for
  2013).*  

10(iii)(f.2)    

Standing
  resolution for non-employee director restricted grants dated
  September 26, 2007 (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10(iii)(f.2) to
  the Registrant s Annual Report on Form 10-K for 2016).*  

10(iii)(f.3)    

Form of
  restricted stock grant letter for non-employee directors (incorporated by
  reference to Exhibit 10(iii)(f.3) to the Registrant s Annual Report on Form
  10-K for 2014).*  

10(iii)(f.4)    

Standing
  resolution for non-employee director cash fees dated October 26, 2011
  (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10(iii)(f.4) to the Registrant s
  Annual Report on Form 10-K for 2015).*  

12    

Computation of
  ratio of earnings to fixed charges.  

14    

Code of Ethics
  and Business Conduct.  

18    

Preferability
  Letter of PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP, Independent Registered Public
  Accounting Firm.  

21    

Subsidiaries of
  the registrant.  

23    

Consent of
  PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP, Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm.  

31.1    

Certification
  (pursuant to Securities Exchange Act Rule 13a-14(a)) by Chief
  Executive Officer.  

31.2    

Certification
  (pursuant to Securities Exchange Act Rule 13a-14(a)) by Principal
  Financial Officer.  

31.3    

Certification
  (pursuant to Securities Exchange Act Rule 13a-14(a)) by Principal
  Accounting Officer.  

32.1    

Section 1350
  Certification (pursuant to Sarbanes-Oxley Section 906) by Chief
  Executive Officer.  

32.2    

Section 1350
  Certification (pursuant to Sarbanes-Oxley Section 906) by Principal Financial
  Officer.  

32.3    

Section 1350
  Certification (pursuant to Sarbanes-Oxley Section 906) by Principal
  Accounting Officer.  

101  

Interactive data
  files.  

_____________________  

*  Compensatory plan or arrangement required to be
identified pursuant to Item 15(a)(3) of this Annual Report on Form 10-K.   

  The registrant has not filed with this report copies
of the instruments defining the rights of holders of long-term debt of the registrant
and its subsidiaries for which consolidated or unconsolidated financial
statements are required to be filed. The registrant agrees to furnish a copy of
any such instrument to the Securities and Exchange Commission upon request.  

120       

SIGNATURES

Pursuant to the requirements of Section 13 or 15(d) of
the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report
to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned, thereunto duly authorized.    

EXXON MOBIL CORPORATION  

By:  

/s/    DARREN W. WOODS          

(Darren W. Woods,  
    Chairman of the Board)  

Dated February 28, 2018   

POWER
OF ATTORNEY    

   Each person whose signature appears below constitutes
and appoints Beth E. Casteel, Stephen A. Littleton, and Richard C. Vint and
each of them, his or her true and lawful attorneys-in-fact and agents, with
full power of substitution and resubstitution, for him or her and in his or her
name, place and stead, in any and all capacities, to sign any and all
amendments to this Annual Report on Form 10-K, and to file the same, with all
exhibits thereto, and other documents in connection therewith, with the
Securities and Exchange Commission, granting unto said attorneys-in-fact and
agents, and each of them, full power and authority to do and perform each and
every act and thing requisite and necessary to be done, as fully to all intents
and purposes as he or she might or could do in person, hereby ratifying and
confirming all that said attorneys-in-fact and agents or any of them, or their
or his or her substitute or substitutes, may lawfully do or cause to be done by
virtue hereof.    

Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities
Exchange Act of 1934, this report has been signed below by the following
persons on behalf of the registrant and in the capacities indicated and on
February 28, 2018.    

/s/    DARREN
  W. WOODS  

(Darren W. Woods)  

Chairman of the Board  
    (Principal Executive Officer)  

/s/    SUSAN
  K. AVERY  

(Susan K. Avery)  

Director  

/s/    MICHAEL
  J. BOSKIN  

(Michael J. Boskin)  

Director  

/s/    ANGELA
  F. BRALY  

(Angela F. Braly)  

Director  

/s/    URSULA
  M. BURNS  

(Ursula M. Burns)  

Director  

121       

/s/    KENNETH
  C. FRAZIER  

(Kenneth C. Frazier)  

Director  

/s/    STEVEN
  A. KANDARIAN  

(Steven A. Kandarian)  

Director  

/s/    DOUGLAS
  R. OBERHELMAN  

(Douglas R. Oberhelman)  

Director  

/s/    SAMUEL
  J. PALMISANO  

(Samuel J. Palmisano)  

Director  

/s/    STEVEN
  S REINEMUND  

(Steven S Reinemund)  

Director  

/s/    WILLIAM
  C. WELDON  

(William C. Weldon)  

Director  

/s/    ANDREW
  P. SWIGER  

(Andrew P. Swiger)  

Senior Vice President  
    (Principal Financial Officer)  

/s/    DAVID
  S. ROSENTHAL  

(David S. Rosenthal)  

Vice President and Controller  
    (Principal Accounting Officer)  

122       

<EX-10.(III) (A1)>
 2
 xomexhibit10iiia1.htm
 2003 INCENTIVE PROGRAM

EXHIBIT 10(iii)(a.1)    

EXXON MOBIL CORPORATION    

    2003 INCENTIVE PROGRAM    

    (as approved by shareholders May 28,
2003)    

I. Purposes    

This 2003 Incentive Program is intended to help reward,
retain, and motivate selected employees of the Corporation and its affiliates
and to align further the interests of those employees with the interests of the
Corporation's shareholders through the grant of stock-based awards.   

II. Definitions    

The following definitions apply:   

(1)  'Administrative authority' means the Board, a
committee designated by the Board, the Chairman of the Board, or the Chairman's
delegates authorized to administer outstanding awards under this Program,
establish requirements and procedures for the operation of the Program, and to
exercise other powers assigned to the administrative authority under this
Program in accordance with Section III.   

(2)  'Affiliate' means a corporation,
partnership, limited liability company, or other entity in which the
Corporation, directly or indirectly, owns an equity interest and which the
administrative authority determines to be an affiliate for purposes of this
Program (including for purposes of determining whether a change of employment
constitutes a termination).   

(3)  'Award' means a stock option, a stock
appreciation right, restricted stock, a restricted stock unit, performance
stock, a performance stock unit, deferred stock, a deferred stock unit, or
other award granted under this Program.   

(4)  'Board' means the Board of Directors
of the Corporation.   

(5)  'Code' means the Internal Revenue
Code, as in effect from time to time.   

(6)  'Compensation Committee' means the
committee of the Board so designated in accordance with Section IV.   

(7)  'Corporation' means Exxon Mobil
Corporation, a New Jersey corporation, or its successors.   

(8)  'Deferred stock' means a share the
delivery of which is subject to a specified deferral period.   

(9)  'Deferred stock unit' means a stock
unit the settlement of which is subject to a specified deferral period.   

(10)  'Designated beneficiary' means the person designated
by the grantee of an award pursuant to Section XVI to be entitled, on the death
of the grantee, to any remaining rights arising out of the award.   

(11)  'Detrimental activity' of a grantee means activity at
any time, during or after employment with the Corporation or an affiliate, that
is determined in individual cases by the administrative authority to be (a) a
material violation of applicable standards, policies, or procedures of the
Corporation or an affiliate; or (b) a material breach of legal or other duties
owed by the grantee to the Corporation or an affiliate; or (c) a material
breach of any contract between the grantee and the Corporation or an affiliate;
or (d) acceptance by grantee of duties to a third party under circumstances
that create a material conflict of interest, or the appearance of a material
conflict of interest, with respect to the grantee's retention of outstanding
awards under this Program.  Detrimental activity includes, without limitation,
activity that would be a basis for termination of employment for cause under
applicable law in the United States, or a comparable standard under applicable
law of another jurisdiction.  With respect to material conflict of interest or
the appearance of material conflict of interest, such conflict or appearance
might occur when, for example and without limitation, a grantee holding an
outstanding award becomes employed or otherwise engaged by an entity that
regulates, deals with, or competes with the Corporation or an affiliate.   

1   

(12)   Employee  means an employee of the
Corporation or an affiliate, including a part-time employee or an employee on
military, family, or other approved temporary leave.   

(13)  'Exchange Act' means the Securities Exchange Act of
1934, as in effect from time to time.   

(14)  'Fair market value' as of any day means (a) if the
New York Stock Exchange is open for trading on that day, the average of the
high and low price of the shares as reported on the consolidated tape during
the New York Stock Exchange regular session; or (b) if the New York Stock
Exchange is not open for trading on that day, the price determined under the
preceding clause (a) for the most recent prior trading day.   

(15)  'Grantee' means a recipient of an award under this
Program.   

(16)   Granting authority  means the Board or any
appropriate committee authorized to grant and amend awards under this Program
and to exercise other powers assigned to the granting authority under this
Program in accordance with Section V.   

(17)  'Incentive Stock Option' or 'ISO' means a stock
option that meets the requirements of Section 422 of the Code or any successor
provision.   

(18)  'Other award' means a form of award based on, payable
in, or otherwise related to shares that is not covered by Sections IX, X, XI,
or XII of this Program.   

(19)  'Performance stock' means a share the delivery of
which is subject to attainment of specified performance criteria.   

(20)  'Performance stock unit' means a stock unit the
delivery or settlement of which is subject to attainment of specified
performance criteria.   

(21)  'Program' means this 2003 Incentive Program, as
amended from time to time.   

(22)  'Reporting person' means a person
subject to the reporting requirements of Section 16(a) of the Exchange Act with
respect to the shares.   

(23)  'Resign' means to terminate at the
initiative of the employee before standard retirement time. Resignation
includes, without limitation, early retirement at the initiative of the
employee. The time or date of a resignation for purposes of this Program is not
necessarily the employee's last day on the payroll. See Section XV(3).   

(24)  'Restricted stock' means shares subject to
restrictions on transfer and potential forfeiture for a specified restricted
period.   

(25)  'Restricted stock unit' means a stock unit subject to
restrictions on transfer and potential forfeiture for a specified restricted
period.   

(26)  'Rule 16b-3' means Rule 16b-3 or any successor rule
under the Exchange Act that exempts transactions under employee benefit plans,
as in effect from time to time.   

(27)  'Section 162(m)' means Section 162(m) of the Code and
the regulations thereunder, as in effect from time to time.   

(28)  'Share' means a share of common stock of the
Corporation, or any security issued in exchange therefor.   

(29)  'Stock unit' means a right with a value based on the
value of shares.   

(30)  'Shareholder-approved plan' means any of the plans
constituting parts of any Incentive Programs previously approved by
shareholders of the Corporation.   

2   

(31)  'Spread'
means the difference between the exercise price per share of an award and the
fair market value of the underlying shares on the date the award is exercised.   

(32)  'Standard retirement time' means (a)
for each US-dollar payroll employee, the first day of the month immediately
following the month in which the employee attains age 65; and (b) for each
other employee, the comparable age in that employee's payroll country as
determined by the administrative authority with reference to local law, custom,
and affiliate policies regarding retirement.   

(33)  'Stock appreciation right' or 'SAR' means an award
giving the grantee the right to receive the spread on the shares specified in
the award.   

(34)  'Terminate' means cease to be an employee for any
reason, whether at the initiative of the employee, the employer, or otherwise. 
That reason could include, without limitation, resignation or retirement by the
employee; discharge of the employee by the employer, with or without cause;
death; transfer of employment to an entity that is not an affiliate; or a sale,
divestiture, or other transaction as a result of which an employer ceases to be
an affiliate.  A change of employment from the Corporation or one affiliate to
another affiliate, or to the Corporation, is not a termination.  The time or
date of termination is not necessarily the employee's last day on the payroll. 
See Section XV(3).   

III. Administration    

The Board is the ultimate administrative authority for this
Program, with the power to interpret and administer its provisions. The Board
may delegate its authority to a committee which, except in the case of the
Compensation Committee, need not be a committee of the Board.  Subject to the
authority of the Board or an authorized committee, the Chairman and his
delegates will serve as the administrative authority for purposes of
establishing requirements and procedures for the operation of the Program;
making final determinations and interpretations with respect to outstanding
awards; and exercising other powers assigned to the administrative authority
under this Program.   

IV. Compensation Committee    

The Board will appoint a Compensation Committee.  The
Compensation Committee will consist of three or more non-employee members of
the Board, each of whom satisfies such criteria of independence as the Board
may establish and such additional regulatory or listing requirements as the
Board may determine to be applicable or appropriate.  No award under this
Program may be granted to a member of the Compensation Committee.   

V. Right to Grant Awards; Reserved Powers;
Eligibility    

(1)  The Board is the ultimate granting authority for this Program,
with the power to select eligible persons for participation and to make all
decisions concerning the grant or amendment of awards.  The Board may delegate
this authority in whole or in part (a) in the case of reporting persons, to the
Compensation Committee; and (b) in the case of employees who are not reporting
persons, to a committee of two or more persons who may, but need not, be
directors of the Corporation.   

(2)  The granting
authority has sole discretion to select persons for awards under this Program,
except that grants may be made only to persons who at the time of grant are, or
within the immediately preceding 12 months have been, employees of the
Corporation or of an affiliate in which the Corporation directly or indirectly
holds a 50 percent or greater equity interest.  No person is entitled to an
award as a matter of right, and the grant of an award under this Program does
not entitle a grantee to any future or additional awards.   

VI. Term    

This Program will become effective when approved by the
shareholders of the Corporation and will terminate when there are no longer any
outstanding awards under the Program.   

VII.  Available Shares    

(1)  The maximum number of shares issued pursuant to awards
under this Program may not exceed 220,000,000 shares.  Within this overall
limitation, the following additional limitations also apply:

3   

(a)  No more
than 20,000,000 shares may be issued under ISOs;   

(b)  No more than 5,000,000       shares
may be granted under stock options or SARs to any one grantee in any one
calendar year;   

(c)  No more than 10,000,000 shares may be
issued under other awards pursuant to Section XIII; and   

   (d) Grants of performance stock and
performance stock units to certain senior executives under Section XI(2) are
subject to the limitation based on annual net income specified in Section
XI(2)(b).   

(2)  To the extent an award under this Program is settled
in cash, expires unexercised, or is forfeited or cancelled, shares subject to
the award will not be considered to have been issued and will not be applied
against the maximum number of shares under the preceding clause (1).   

(3)  Shares surrendered to or withheld by the Corporation
in payment of the exercise price or applicable taxes upon exercise or
settlement of an award may also be used thereafter for additional awards.   

VIII. Adjustments    

Whenever a stock split, stock dividend, merger, or other
relevant change in capitalization occurs, the administrative authority (which,
in the case of reporting persons, must be the Compensation Committee) may
adjust the terms of outstanding awards, as well as the terms of this Program
relating to the number of shares that may be granted or issued, as appropriate
to prevent either dilution or enlargement of the rights of grantees and
potential grantees.   

IX. Stock Options; SARs    

(1)  Subject to the terms of this Program, stock options
and SARs may be granted to selected persons upon such terms and conditions as
the granting authority determines, except that:   

(a)  The exercise price per share may not be less than 100
percent of fair market value on the date of grant;    

(b)  Except in case of death as provided in Section XVI, a
stock option or SAR may not become exercisable until at least one year after
the date of grant; and   

(c)  An unexercised stock option or SAR will expire at the
earliest of the following times:   

(i)  Ten years after it is granted;   

(ii)  Any earlier date specified in the
award; or    

(iii)  Such earlier date as may apply
under Section XV.   

(2)  The granting authority may designate any stock option
as an ISO.  However, the aggregate fair market value (determined as of the date
a stock option is granted) of shares underlying stock options designated as
ISOs that become exercisable for the first time by any grantee during any
calendar year (under this Program and all other plans of the Corporation and
any affiliate) may not exceed $100,000 (or such other amount as may be
reflected in the limits imposed from time to time by Section 422(d) of the Code
or any successor provision).  This limitation will be applied by taking stock
options into account in the order in which they were granted. In addition, (a)
the total number of shares granted as ISOs under this Program may not exceed
the limit specified in Section VII(1)(a); and (b) no ISO may be granted after
the tenth anniversary of the date on which shareholders approve this Program. 
If a stock option or portion that is intended to qualify as an ISO fails to
meet the foregoing requirements, the option or portion will be treated as not
being an ISO but will otherwise remain a valid stock option according to its
terms.

4   

(3)
 Payment of the exercise price of a stock option may be made in cash or shares
in accordance with the terms of this Program and any requirements or procedures
of the administrative authority in effect at the time.  If permitted by the
administrative authority, shares used as payment need not be physically
delivered to the Corporation but may be deemed transferred so that only a net
number of shares is physically delivered to the grantee in settlement of an
option exercise.  Shares used as payment will be valued at fair market value.  For
this purpose, the administrative authority may establish procedures under which
fair market value is determined either on the date of exercise or as of the
immediately preceding day.   

(4)  SARs
may be granted as freestanding awards or in tandem with stock options.  A
tandem SAR may be included with a stock option at the time the option is
granted or by an amendment of the option.  Exercise of a tandem SAR will be
deemed a surrender of the related stock option for cancellation and vice versa.
 SARs may be settled in cash, shares, or a combination thereof.   

(5)  A
stock option or SAR may provide that it will be deemed to be automatically
exercised on the last day of its term if the award has positive value and would
otherwise expire unexercised under subsections (1)(c)(i) or (1)(c)(ii) of this
Section IX.   

X.
Restricted Stock; Restricted Stock Units    

Subject to the terms of this Program, restricted stock and
restricted stock units may be granted to selected persons upon such terms and
conditions as the granting authority determines, including: the duration and
conditions of the applicable restricted periods; whether or not, in the case of
restricted stock, the grantee has the right to vote the shares or receive
dividends; and, in the case of restricted stock units, the method of
settlement, which may be in cash, shares, or a combination thereof.  However,
except in case of death (which is covered in Section XVI), the restricted
period for restricted stock and restricted stock units granted under this
Section X may not be less than three years from the date the award is approved
by the granting authority.   

XI.
Performance Stock; Performance Stock Units    

(1)  Subject to the
terms of this Program, performance stock and performance stock units may be
granted to selected persons upon such terms and conditions as the granting
authority determines, including: the applicable performance periods and
performance criteria; maximum, minimum and target settlement values, if
applicable; whether or not, in the case of performance stock, the grantee has
the right to vote the shares or receive dividends; and, in the case of
performance stock units, the method of settlement, which may be in cash,
shares, or another form of award permitted under this Program, or a combination
thereof.  However, the performance period for performance stock and performance
stock units granted under this Section XI may not be less than 12 months.  The
extent to which performance criteria have been achieved will be determined by
the administrative authority (which, in the case of awards granted under
Section XI(2), must be the Compensation Committee).   

(2)  Performance
stock or performance stock units granted to the Corporation's Chief Executive
Officer, the other four most highly compensated officers, and any other key
employees designated by the Compensation Committee as of the end of each
taxable year of the Corporation will be subject to the following additional
terms:   

(a)  The award will be subject both to the
shareholder-approved performance goal specified in paragraph (b) of this
Section XI(2) and to the attainment of such other objective goals as shall be
pre-established by the Compensation Committee based on one or more of the following
performance criteria:  earnings per share, net income, cash flow, operating
income, return on capital employed, and total shareholder return.   

(b)  The maximum amount of awards granted
under these terms to any one grantee for any one year is limited to the
shareholder-approved performance goal of one-half of one percent (0.5 percent)
of the Corporation's net income from operations for that year.  For this
purpose, performance stock will be valued at the fair market value of shares
and performance stock units will be valued at the fair market value of one
share per unit on the date of grant.  The Compensation Committee may award a
grantee less, but not more, than the maximum award under this Section XI(2).   

XII.     
     Deferred Stock; Deferred Stock Units    

(1)  Subject to the
terms of this Program, deferred stock and deferred stock units may be granted
to selected persons upon such terms and conditions as the granting authority
determines, including: the duration of the deferral period; the number of
installments in which delivery of deferred stock or settlement of deferred
stock units will be made; whether or not, in the case of deferred stock, the
grantee has the right to vote the shares or receive dividends; and, in the case
of deferred stock units, the method of settlement, which may be in cash,
shares, or a combination thereof.  However, deferred stock and deferred stock
units granted              

5   

under
this Section XII may only be granted in lieu of salary, bonus, or incentive
compensation that would otherwise be paid to the grantee in cash.  For
this purpose, deferred stock will be valued at the fair market value of shares
and deferred stock units will be valued at the fair market value of one share
per unit on the date of grant.   

(2)  Deferred stock
and deferred stock units may be awarded at the election of the granting
authority or, if the granting authority permits and subject to any requirements
and procedures established by the administrative authority, at the election of
the grantee.   

XIII.
Other Awards    

Subject to the terms of this Program (including the
10,000,000 share limit specified in Section VII(1)(c)), other awards may be
granted to selected persons upon such terms and conditions as the granting
authority determines consistent with the overall purposes of this Program.   

XIV.
Deferred and Installment Settlement; Dividend and Interest Equivalents    

(1)  The
granting authority may permit or require settlement of any award under this
Program to be deferred and to be made in one or more installments upon such
terms and conditions as the granting authority may determine at the time the
award is granted or by amendment of the award.   

(2)  Any
form of award may accrue dividend equivalents upon such terms and conditions as
the granting authority determines.  Dividend equivalents may be paid currently
in cash or may be deemed to be reinvested in additional shares (which may
thereafter accrue additional dividend equivalents).  Any reinvestment will be
at fair market value on the date thereof.  Reinvested dividend equivalents will
be settled in cash or shares upon exercise, settlement, or payment of, or lapse
of restrictions on, the underlying award, and will expire or be forfeited or
cancelled upon the same conditions as the underlying award.   

(3)  An award that is
settled in whole or in part in cash on a deferred basis may provide for interest
equivalents to be credited with respect to the cash payment upon such terms and
conditions as the granting authority determines.  Interest equivalents may be
paid currently or may be added to the balance of the award amount and
compounded.  Compounded interest equivalents will be paid in cash upon
exercise, settlement, or payment of, or lapse of restrictions on, the
underlying award, and will expire or be forfeited or cancelled upon the same
conditions as the underlying award.  The granting authority may delegate to the
administrative authority the right to determine the rate or rates at which
interest equivalents will accrue.   

(4)  The crediting of
dividend or interest equivalents on an outstanding award is not a new grant for
purposes of the eligibility provisions of Section V(2).   

XV. Termination;
Detrimental Activity    

(1)  If
a grantee terminates before standard retirement time, other than by reason of
death, all outstanding awards of the grantee under this Program (including unexercised
stock options or SARs, restricted stock and restricted stock units still
subject to restriction, and performance stock, performance stock units,
deferred stock, deferred stock units, and other awards not yet paid or settled)
will automatically expire and be forfeited as of the date of termination except
to the extent the administrative authority (which, in the case of reporting
persons, must be the Compensation Committee) determines otherwise.   

(2)  If
a grantee resigns, the administrative authority (which, in the case of
reporting persons, must be the Compensation Committee) may, in furtherance of
the employee-retention purpose of this Program or for other good reason,
require the grantee to pay to the Corporation an amount equal to the spread on
any stock option or SAR exercised by the grantee during the six-month period
immediately preceding such resignation.  The provisions of this Section XV(2)
are in addition to, not in lieu of, the other consequences of termination
provided in this Section XV.   

(3)  For
purposes of this Program, the administrative authority may determine that the
time or date an employee resigns or otherwise terminates is the time or date
the employee gives notice of resignation, accepts employment with another
employer, otherwise indicates an intent to resign, or is discharged.  The time
or date of termination for this purpose is not necessarily the employee's last
day on the payroll.   

(4)  If
the administrative authority (which, in the case of reporting persons, must be
the Compensation Committee) determines that a grantee has engaged in
detrimental activity, whether or not the grantee is still an employee, then the
administrative authority may, effective as of the time of such determination,
cancel and cause to expire all or part of the grantee's outstanding         

6   

awards
under this Program (including unexercised stock options or SARs, restricted
stock and restricted stock units still subject to restriction, and performance
stock, performance stock units, deferred stock, deferred stock units, and other
awards not yet paid or settled).   

(5)  If
the administrative authority is advised or has reason to believe that a grantee
(a) may have engaged in detrimental activity; or (b) may have accepted
employment with another employer or otherwise indicated an intent to resign,
the authority may suspend the exercise, delivery or settlement of all or any
specified portion of such grantee's outstanding awards pending an investigation
of the matter.   

XVI.
Death; Beneficiary Designation    

(1)  Unless
otherwise specified in the award, if a grantee dies:   

(a)  Any of the grantee's stock options or SARs that are not yet
exercisable will become immediately exercisable in full;   

(b)  Any remaining restrictions with respect to the grantee's
restricted stock or restricted stock units will expire; and   

(c)  The administrative authority may alter or accelerate the
settlement schedule of any performance stock, performance stock units, deferred
stock, deferred stock units, or other award payable on a deferred or
installment basis.   

(2)  Any
rights with respect to an award existing after the grantee dies are exercisable
by the grantee's designated beneficiary or, if there is no designated beneficiary,
by the grantee's estate representative or lawful heirs as demonstrated to the
satisfaction of the administrative authority.  Beneficiary designations must be
made in writing and in accordance with such requirements and procedures as the
administrative authority may establish.   

XVII.
Amendments to the Program and Outstanding Awards; Shareholder Approval    

(1)  The Board can
from time to time amend this Program or halt the grant of new awards under this
Program, except that approval of the shareholders of the Corporation will be
required for any amendment (other than adjustments under Section VIII):   

(a)  To increase the maximum number of shares that may be issued
under Section VII;    

(b)  To decrease the minimum exercise price per share of a stock
option or SAR; or   

(c)  That would otherwise materially increase the benefits
accruing to participants under the Program.   

An
amendment of this Program will, unless the amendment provides otherwise, be
immediately and automatically effective for all outstanding awards.   

(2)  Without amending
this Program, the granting authority may amend any one or more outstanding
awards under this Program or any other shareholder-approved plan to incorporate
in those awards any terms that could be incorporated in a new award under this
Program, except that approval of the shareholders of the Corporation will be
required for any amendment of an outstanding stock option or SAR to decrease
the exercise price per share (other than an adjustment under Section VIII).  An
award as amended must satisfy any conditions or limitations applicable to the
particular type of award under the terms of this Program.   

(3)  Approval of the
shareholders of the Corporation will also be required for (a) any cancellation
of an outstanding option or SAR in exchange for the grant of a new option or
SAR having a lower exercise price per share or (b) any cancellation of an
outstanding option or SAR having an exercise price above the current market
price of the shares in exchange for another form of award under this Program.   

XVIII. Withholding Taxes    

The Corporation has the right, in its sole discretion, to
deduct or withhold at any time shares, stock units, or cash otherwise payable
or deliverable in order to satisfy any required withholding, social security,
and similar taxes and contributions with respect to awards under this Program. 
Withheld shares may be retained by the Corporation or sold on behalf of the
grantee.  Alternatively,   

7   

the Corporation also has the right in its
sole discretion, to require the grantee at any time to deposit with the
Corporation cash in an amount determined by the Corporation to be necessary to
satisfy required withholding, social security, and similar taxes and
contributions with respect to awards under this Program.  In its sole
discretion, the Corporation may permit the grantee to satisfy all or part of
the grantee's obligations under this Section XVIII by delivering, in accordance
with any applicable requirements or procedures of the administrative authority,
shares previously owned by the grantee.  Shares withheld or delivered in
accordance with this Section XVIII will be valued at fair market value.  For
this purpose, the administrative authority may establish procedures under which
fair market value is determined either on the date of withholding or delivery
or as of the immediately preceding day.   

XIX.
Non-US Awards    

Subject to the limitations contained in this Program, the
granting authority may establish different terms and conditions for awards to
persons who are residents or nationals of countries other than the United
States in order to accommodate the local laws, tax policies, or customs of such
countries.  Such terms and conditions may include, without limitation, granting
cash-only stock appreciation rights or stock units in lieu of or in tandem with
share awards.  The granting authority may adopt one or more supplements or
sub-plans under this Program to implement those different terms and conditions.   

XX.
General Provisions    

(1)  Shares
subject to awards under this Program may either be authorized but unissued
shares or previously issued shares that have been reacquired by the
Corporation.   

(2)  For
reporting persons, transactions under this Program are intended to comply with
all applicable conditions of Rule 16b-3.  If any provision of this Program or
any action by an authority under this Program fails to so comply, such
provision or action will, without further action by any person, be deemed to be
automatically amended to the extent necessary to effect compliance with Rule
16b-3 or if such provision or action cannot be amended to effect such
compliance, be deemed null and void.   

(3)  An award under
this Program is not transferable except by will or the laws of descent and
distribution, and is not subject to attachment, execution, or levy of any kind.
 The designation by a grantee of a designated beneficiary is not a transfer for
this purpose.   

(4)  A particular
form of award may be granted to a grantee either alone or in addition to other
awards hereunder.  The provisions of particular forms of award need not be the
same for each grantee.   

(5)  Unless otherwise
provided in the terms of an award, an award will not give the grantee any
rights as a shareholder until any shares subject to or deliverable in
settlement of the award are actually issued and registered in the name of the
grantee free of restriction.   

(6)  An
award may be granted for no consideration, for the minimum consideration
required by applicable law, or for such other consideration as the granting
authority may determine.   

(7)  An
award and any shares in settlement of an award may be evidenced in such manner
as the administrative authority determines, including by physical instrument or
certificate, by electronic communication, or by book entry.  In the event of
any dispute or discrepancy regarding the terms of an award, the records of the
administrative authority will be determinative.   

(8)  The
grant of an award under this Program does not constitute or imply a contract of
employment and does not in any way limit or restrict the ability of the
employer to terminate the grantee's employment, with or without cause, even if
such termination results in the expiration, cancellation, or forfeiture of
outstanding awards.   

(9)  A
grantee will have only a contractual right to the shares or amounts, if any,
payable in settlement of an award under this Program, unsecured by any assets
of the Corporation or any other entity.   

(10)  This Program
will be governed by the laws of the State of New York and the United States of
America, without regard to any conflict of law rules.   

8   

</EX-10.(III) (A1)>

<EX-10.(III) (A3)>
 3
 xomexhibit10iiia3.htm
 EXTENDED PROVISIONS FOR RESTRICTED STOCK UNIT AGREEMENTS-SETTLEMENT IN SHARES

EXHIBIT 10(iii)(a.3)    

    November 29, 2017    

   Exxon Mobil Corporation   

   Extended Provisions for Restricted Stock
Unit Agreements - Settlement in Shares   

1.             Effective
Date and Credit of Restricted Stock Units    .  If Grantee accepts the award on or
before March 5, 2018, this Agreement will become effective the date the
Corporation receives the award acceptance. After this agreement becomes
effective, the Corporation will credit to Grantee the number of restricted
stock units specified in the award package. Subject to the terms and conditions
of this Agreement, each restricted stock unit ( unit ) will entitle
Grantee to receive in settlement of the unit one share of the Corporation's
common stock.  

2.             Conditions    .  If credited, the units will be subject to the provisions
of this Agreement, and to such regulations and requirements as the administrative
authority of the Program may establish from time to time. The units will be
credited to Grantee only on the condition that Grantee accepts such provisions,
regulations, and requirements.  

3.         Restrictions
and Risk of Forfeiture    .
  During the
applicable restricted periods specified in section 4 of this Agreement,  

  (a)        
  the units under restriction may not be sold, assigned, transferred, pledged,
or otherwise disposed of or encumbered, and any attempt to do so will be null
and void; and  

  (b)        
  the units under restriction may be forfeited as provided in section 6.  

4.             Restricted Periods    .  The restricted
periods will commence when the units are credited to Grantee and, unless the
units have been forfeited earlier under section 6, will expire as follows,
whether or not Grantee is still an employee:  

  (a)        
  with respect to 50% of the units, on November 29, 2022; and  

  (b)        
  with respect to the remaining units, on the later to occur of  

  (i)         
  November      29,      2027,      or   

  (ii)       
  the      first      day      of      the      calendar      year      immediately      following      the    year     in      which      Grantee   
  terminates;      except      that   

  (c)        
  the restricted periods will automatically expire with respect to all shares
on the death of Grantee.  

5.         No
Obligation to Credit Units    . 
The Corporation will have no obligation to credit any units and will have no
other obligation to Grantee with respect to the subject matter of this
Agreement if Grantee fails to accept the award on or before March 5, 2018. In
addition, whether or not Grantee has accepted the award, the Corporation will
have no obligation to credit any units and will have no other obligation to
Grantee with respect     to      the      subject      matter      of      this      Agreement      if,      before      the      units      are      credited:   

  (a)        
  Grantee terminates     (other    than     by      death) before     standard      retirement      time      within the     meaning      of      the      Program,      except      to the     extent   the administrative     authority      of      the      Program      determines      Grantee   may      receive      units      under      this      Agreement;      or   

  (b)        
  Grantee      is      determined      to      have      engaged      in      detrimental      activity      within      the      meaning      of      the      Program.   

6.         Forfeiture
of Units After Crediting    . 
  Until      the      applicable      restricted      period      specified      in      section      4      has      expired,   
  the      units      under      restriction      will      be   forfeited      or      subject      to      forfeiture      in      the      following      circumstances:   

Termination    

  If     Grantee      terminates      (other      than      by      death)      before      standard      retirement      time      within      the      meaning      of      the   Program,      all      units      for      which      the      applicable      restricted      periods      have      not      expired      will      be      automatically
  forfeited      as      of      the      date      of      termination,      except      to      the      extent      the      administrative      authority      determines
G  rantee      may      retain      units      issued      under      this      Agreement.   

Detrimental             activity     

  If     Grantee      is      determined      to      have      engaged      in      detrimental      activity   
  within      the      meaning      of      the      Program,      either
b  efore      or      after      termination,      all      units      for      which      the      applicable      restricted      periods      have      not      expired      will      be a  utomatically      forfeited      as      of      the      date      of      such      determination.   

Attempted             transfer     

  The     units      are      subject      to      forfeiture      in      the      discretion      of      the      administrative      authority      if      Grantee      attempts      to
sell,     assign,      transfer,   
  pledge,      or      otherwise      dispose      of      or      encumber      them      during      the      applicable      restricted
  periods.   

1   

Applicable law    

    The units are subject to
forfeiture in whole or in part as the administrative authority deems necessary
to comply with applicable law or Corporation policy including, without
limitation, any clawback obligations determined to be owed by Grantee to the
Corporation in connection with this or other awards.  

  7.        
    Taxes    .    Notwithstanding
the restrictions on transfer that otherwise apply, the Corporation in its sole
discretion may withhold units, or shares otherwise deliverable in settlement of
units, either at the time of crediting, at the time of settlement, or at any
other time in order to satisfy any required withholding, social security, and
similar taxes or contributions (collectively,  required taxes ).
Withheld units or shares may be retained by the Corporation or sold on behalf
of Grantee. The Corporation in its sole discretion may also withhold any required
taxes from dividend equivalents paid on the units.  

  8.        
    Form of
Units; No Shareholder Status    . 
  The units will be represented by book-entry credits in
records maintained by or on behalf of the Corporation. Units will be unfunded
and unsecured promises by the Corporation to deliver shares in the future upon
the terms and subject to the conditions of this Agreement. Grantee will not be
a shareholder of the Corporation with respect to units prior to the time shares
are actually registered in Grantee's name in settlement of such units in
accordance with section 9.  

  9.        
    Settlement
of Units    .  If
and when the applicable restricted period expires with respect to any units,
subject to section 7, the Corporation will issue shares, free of restriction
and registered in the name of Grantee, in settlement of such units.  Such
shares will be delivered promptly after such expiration to or for the account
of Grantee either in certificated form or by book-entry transfer in accordance
with the procedures of the administrative authority in effect at the time.  

  10.     
    Dividend
Equivalents    . 
  The Corporation will pay to Grantee cash with respect
to each credited unit corresponding in amount, currency, and timing to cash
dividends that would be payable with respect to a share of common stock outstanding
on each record date that occurs during the applicable restricted period.
Alternatively, the administrative authority may determine to reinvest such
dividend equivalents in additional units which will be held subject to all the
terms and conditions otherwise applicable to units under this Agreement.  

  11.     
    Change
in Capitalization    . 
  If during the applicable restricted periods a stock
split, stock dividend, or other relevant change in capitalization of the
Corporation occurs, the administrative authority will make such adjustments in
the number of units credited to Grantee, or in the number and type of
securities deliverable to Grantee in settlement of such units and used in
determining dividend equivalent amounts, as the administrative authority may
determine to be appropriate. Any resulting new units or securities credited
with respect to previously credited units that are still restricted under this
Agreement will be delivered to and held by or on behalf of the Corporation and
will be subject to the same provisions, restrictions, and requirements as those
previously credited units.  

  12.     
    Limits
on the Corporation s Obligations    . 
Notwithstanding anything else contained in this Agreement, under no
circumstances will the Corporation be required to credit any units or issue or
deliver any shares in settlement of units if doing so would violate any law or
listing requirement that the administrative authority determines to be
applicable.    

  13.     
    Receipt
or Access to Program    . 
Grantee acknowledges receipt of or access to the full text of the Program.    

  14.     
    Addresses
for Communications    . 
  To facilitate communications regarding this Agreement,
Grantee agrees to notify the Corporation promptly of changes in current mailing
and email addresses. Communications to the Corporation in connection with this
Agreement should be directed to the Incentive Processing Office, or to such
other address as the Corporation may designate by further notice to Grantee.  

  15.     
    Transfer
of Personal Data    . 
The administration of the Program and this Agreement, including any subsequent
ownership of shares, involve the collection, use, and transfer of personal data
about Grantee between and among the Corporation, selected subsidiaries and
other affiliates of the Corporation, and third-party service providers such as
Morgan Stanley and Computershare (the Corporation's transfer agent), as well as
various regulatory and tax authorities around the world. This data includes
Grantee's name, age, date of birth, contact information, work location,
employment status, tax status, social security number, salary, nationality, job
title, share ownership, and details of incentive awards granted, cancelled,
vested or unvested, and related information. By accepting this award, Grantee
authorizes such collection, use, and transfer of this data. Grantee may, at any
time and without charge, view such data and require necessary corrections to
it. Such data will at all times be held in accordance with applicable laws,
regulations, and agreements.  

2   

16.          No Employment Contract or
Entitlement to Other or Future Awards    .    This Agreement, the
Corporation's incentive programs, and Grantee's selection for incentive awards
do not imply or form a part of any contract or assurance of employment, and
they do not in any way limit or restrict the ability of Grantee's employer to
terminate Grantee's employment. Grantee acknowledges that the Corporation
maintains and administers its incentive programs entirely in its discretion and
that Grantee is not entitled to any other or future incentive awards of any
kind in addition to those that have already been granted.  

  17.     
    Governing
Law and Consent to Jurisdiction    . 
  This Agreement and the Program are governed by the laws
of the State of New York without regard to any conflict of law rules. Any
dispute arising out of or relating to this Agreement or the Program may be
resolved in any state or federal court located within Dallas County, Texas,
U.S.A. Grantee accepts that venue and submits to the personal jurisdiction of
any such court. Similarly, the Corporation accepts such venue and submits to
such jurisdiction.  

  18.     
    Entire
Agreement    .  This
Agreement constitutes the entire understanding between Grantee and the
Corporation with respect to the subject matter of this Agreement.  

3   

</EX-10.(III) (A3)>

<EX-10.(III) (B2)>
 4
 xomexhibit10iiib2.htm
 EARNINGS BONUS UNIT INSTRUMENT

EXHIBIT 10(iii)(b.2)   

EXXON MOBIL CORPORATION   

  EARNINGS BONUS UNIT AWARD  

Maximum   

Maximum   

Settlement   

Settlement   

Number   

Value Per   

Value of   

Name of Grantee    

of EBUs    

EBU    

Award    

$6.50  

This    EARNINGS BONUS UNIT
AWARD    is granted in Dallas County, Texas by Exxon Mobil Corporation (the
 Corporation ) effective November 29, 2017 (the  date of
grant ), pursuant to the Short Term Incentive Program adopted by the Board
of Directors of the Corporation on October 27, 1993, as amended (the
 Program ). This award is subject to the provisions of this
instrument and the Program and to such regulations and requirements as may be
stipulated from time to time by the administrative authority defined in the
Program and is granted on the condition that Grantee accepts such provisions,
regulations, and requirements. This instrument incorporates by reference the
provisions of the Program, as it may be amended from time to time, including
without limitation the definitions of terms used in this instrument and defined
in the Program.  

  1.    Award   . The
Corporation has granted to Grantee the number of earnings bonus units
( EBUs ) set forth above, with each EBU having the maximum settlement
value set forth above. Subject to the other terms of this award, Grantee has
the right, for each of these EBUs, to receive from the Corporation, promptly
after the settlement date defined below, an amount of cash equal to the
Corporation's cumulative earnings per common share (assuming dilution) as
reflected in its quarterly earnings statements as initially filed in its
quarterly or annual reports with the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission
commencing with earnings for the first full quarter following the date of grant
to and including the last full quarter preceding the settlement date; provided,
however, that the amount of such settlement will not exceed the maximum
settlement value specified above.  

  2.    Settlement Date   .
The settlement date of these EBUs will be the earlier of (i) the date of
publication of the Corporation's quarterly earnings statement for the twelfth
(12th) full quarter following the date of grant, or (ii) the date of
publication of the Corporation's quarterly earnings statement which brings the
cumulative earnings per common share (assuming dilution) as initially filed in
its quarterly or annual reports with the U.S. Securities and Exchange
Commission commencing with the first full quarter following the date of grant
to an amount at least equal to the maximum settlement value per EBU specified
above.  

  3.    Annulment   .
This award is provisional until the Corporation actually pays cash in
settlement of the award.  

  (a) If, before the
Corporation pays such cash, Grantee terminates (other than by death) before
standard retirement time within the meaning of the Program, this award will
automatically expire as of the date of termination, except to the extent the
administrative authority determines Grantee may retain this award.  

  (b) If, before the
Corporation pays such cash, Grantee is determined to have engaged in
detrimental activity within the meaning of the Program, this award will
automatically expire as of the date of such determination.  

  (c) Provisional awards held
by executive officers may also be subject to cancellation to comply with
applicable law or Corporation policy including, without limitation, any
clawback obligations determined to be owed by Grantee to the Corporation in
connection with this or other awards.  

  4.    Adjustments   . The
number of EBUs covered by this award and the meaning of the term  common
share  will be adjusted by the administrative authority as it deems
appropriate to give effect to any stock split, stock dividend or other relevant
change in capitalization of the Corporation after the date of grant and prior
to the settlement date.  

  5.    Governing Law and Consent to Jurisdiction   . This award
and the Program are governed by the laws of the State of New York without
regard to any conflict of law rules. Any dispute arising out of or relating to
this award or the Program may be resolved in any state or federal court located
within Dallas County, Texas, U.S.A. This award is issued on the condition that
Grantee accepts such venue and submits to the personal jurisdiction of any such
court. Similarly, the Corporation accepts such venue and submits to such
jurisdiction.  

EXXON MOBIL
  CORPORATION   

</EX-10.(III) (B2)>

<EX-12>
 5
 xomexhibit12.htm
 COMPUTATION OF RATIO OF EARNINGS TO FIXED CHARGES

EXHIBIT 12    

</EX-12>

<EX-14>
 6
 xomexhibit14.htm
 CODE OF ETHICS AND BUSINESS CONDUCT

EXHIBIT 14    

CODE OF ETHICS AND
BUSINESS CONDUCT    

Ethics Policy    

The policy of Exxon Mobil
Corporation is to comply with all governmental laws, rules, and regulations
applicable to its business.   

The Corporation's Ethics
policy does not stop there. Even where the law is permissive, the Corporation
chooses the course of highest integrity. Local customs, traditions, and mores
differ from place to place, and this must be recognized. But honesty is not
subject to criticism in any culture. Shades of dishonesty simply invite
demoralizing and reprehensible judgments. A well-founded reputation for
scrupulous dealing is itself a priceless corporate asset.   

The Corporation cares how
results are obtained, not just that they are obtained. Directors, officers, and
employees should deal fairly with each other and with the Corporation's
suppliers, customers, competitors, and other third parties.   

The Corporation expects
compliance with its standard of integrity throughout the organization and will
not tolerate employees who achieve results at the cost of violation of law or
who deal unscrupulously. The Corporation's directors and officers support, and
expect the Corporation's employees to support, any employee who passes up an
opportunity or advantage that would sacrifice ethical standards.   

It is the Corporation's
policy that all transactions will be accurately reflected in its books and
records. This, of course, means that falsification of books and records and the
creation or maintenance of any off-the-record bank accounts are strictly
prohibited. Employees are expected to record all transactions accurately in the
Corporation's books and records, and to be honest and forthcoming with the
Corporation's internal and independent auditors.    

The Corporation expects
candor from employees at all levels and adherence to its policies and internal
controls. One harm which results when employees conceal information from higher
management or the auditors is that other employees think they are being given a
signal that the Corporation's policies and internal controls can be ignored
when they are inconvenient. That can result in corruption and demoralization of
an organization. The Corporation's system of management will not work without
honesty, including honest bookkeeping, honest budget proposals, and honest
economic evaluation of projects.   

It is the Corporation's
policy to make full, fair, accurate, timely, and understandable disclosure in
reports and documents that the Corporation files with the United States
Securities and Exchange Commission, and in other public communications. All
employees are responsible for reporting material information known to them to
higher management so that the information will be available to senior
executives responsible for making disclosure decisions.   

Conflicts
of Interest Policy    

It is the policy of Exxon
Mobil Corporation that directors, officers, and employees are expected to avoid
any actual or apparent conflict between their own personal interests and the
interests of the Corporation. A conflict of interest can arise when a director,
officer, or employee takes actions or has personal interests that may interfere
with his or her objective and effective performance of work for the
Corporation. For example, directors, officers, and employees are expected to
avoid actual or apparent conflict in dealings with suppliers, customers, competitors,
and other third parties. Directors, officers, and employees are expected to
refrain from taking for themselves opportunities discovered through their use
of corporate assets or through their positions with the Corporation. Directors,
officers, and employees are expected to avoid securities transactions based on
material, nonpublic information learned through their positions with the Corporation.
Directors, officers, and employees are expected to refrain from competing with
the Corporation.   

1         

Corporate
Assets Policy    

It is the policy of Exxon
Mobil Corporation that directors, officers, and employees are expected to
protect the assets of the Corporation and use them efficiently to advance the interests
of the Corporation. Those assets include tangible assets and intangible assets,
such as confidential information of the Corporation or personal information
held by the Corporation. No director, officer, or employee should use or
disclose at any time during or subsequent to employment or other service to the
Corporation, without proper authority or mandate, personal or confidential
information obtained from any source in the course of the Corporation s
business. Examples of confidential information include nonpublic information
about the Corporation s plans, earnings, financial forecasts, business
forecasts, discoveries, competitive bids, technologies, and personnel.   

Directorships Policy    

It is the policy of Exxon
Mobil Corporation to restrict the holding by officers and employees of
directorships in nonaffiliated, for-profit organizations and to prohibit the
acceptance by any officer or employee of such directorships that would involve
a conflict of interest with, or interfere with, the discharge of the officer's
or employee's duties to the Corporation. Any officer or employee may hold
directorships in nonaffiliated, nonprofit organizations, unless such
directorships would involve a conflict of interest with, or interfere with, the
discharge of the officer's or employee's duties to the Corporation, or obligate
the Corporation to provide support to the nonaffiliated, nonprofit
organizations. Officers and employees may serve as directors of affiliated
companies and such service may be part of their normal work assignments.   

All directorships in public
companies held by directors of the Corporation are subject to review and
approval by the Board of Directors of the Corporation. In all other cases,
directorships in nonaffiliated, for-profit organizations are subject to review
and approval by the management of the Corporation, as directed by the Chairman.

Procedures and Open Door Communication    

Exxon Mobil Corporation
encourages employees to ask questions, voice concerns, and make appropriate
suggestions regarding the business practices of the Corporation. Employees are
expected to report promptly to management suspected violations of law, the
Corporation's policies, and the Corporation's internal controls, so that
management can take appropriate corrective action. The Corporation promptly
investigates reports of suspected violations of law, policies, and internal
control procedures.   

Management is ultimately
responsible for the investigation of and appropriate response to reports of
suspected violations of law, policies, and internal control procedures. Internal
Audit has primary responsibility for investigating violations of the
Corporation's internal controls, with assistance from others, depending on the subject
matter of the inquiry. The persons who investigate suspected violations are
expected to exercise independent and objective judgment.   

Normally, an employee should
discuss such matters with the employee's immediate supervisor. Each supervisor
is expected to be available to subordinates for that purpose. If an employee is
dissatisfied following review with the employee's immediate supervisor, that
employee is encouraged to request further reviews, in the presence of the
supervisor or otherwise. Reviews should continue to the level of management
appropriate to resolve the issue.   

Depending on the subject
matter of the question, concern, or suggestion, each employee has access to
alternative channels of communication, for example, the Controller's
Department; Internal Audit; the Human Resources Department; the Law Department;
the Safety, Health and Environment Department; the Security Department; and the
Treasurer's Department.   

Suspected violations of law
or the Corporation's policies involving a director or executive officer, as
well as any concern regarding questionable accounting or auditing matters,
should be referred directly to the General Auditor of the Corporation. The
Board Affairs Committee of the Board of Directors of the Corporation will
initially review all issues involving directors or executive officers, and will
then refer all such issues to the Board of Directors of the Corporation.   

Employees may also address
communications to individual nonemployee directors or to the nonemployee
directors as a group by writing them at Exxon Mobil Corporation, 5959 Las
Colinas Boulevard, Irving, Texas 75039, U.S.A., or such other addresses as the
Corporation may designate and publish from time to time.   

2         

Employees
wishing to make complaints without identifying themselves may do so by
telephoning 1 800 963 9966 or 1 972 444 1990,
or by writing the Global Security Manager, Exxon Mobil Corporation, P.O. Box
142106, Irving, Texas 75014, U.S.A., or such other telephone numbers and
addresses as the Corporation may designate and publish from time to time. All
complaints to those telephone numbers and addresses concerning accounting,
internal accounting controls, or auditing matters will be referred to the Audit
Committee of the Board of Directors of the Corporation.   

All persons responding to
employees' questions, concerns, complaints, and suggestions are expected to use
appropriate discretion regarding anonymity and confidentiality, although the
preservation of anonymity and confidentiality may or may not be practical, depending
on the circumstances. For example, investigations of significant complaints
typically necessitate revealing to others information about the complaint and
complainant. Similarly, disclosure can result from government investigations
and litigation.   

No action may be taken or
threatened against any employee for asking questions, voicing concerns, or
making complaints or suggestions in conformity with the procedures described
above, unless the employee acts with willful disregard of the truth.   

Failure to behave honestly,
and failure to comply with law, the Corporation's policies, and the
Corporation's internal controls may result in disciplinary action, up to and
including separation.   

No one in the Corporation
has the authority to make exceptions or grant waivers to the Corporation's
foundation policies. It is recognized that there will be questions about the
application of the policies to specific activities and situations. In cases of
doubt, directors, officers, and employees are expected to seek clarification
and guidance. In those instances where the Corporation, after review, approves
an activity or situation, the Corporation is not granting an exception or
waiver but is determining that there is no policy violation. If the Corporation
determines that there is or would be a policy violation, appropriate action is
taken.   

3         

</EX-14>

<EX-18>
 7
 xomexhibit18.htm
 PREFERABILITY LETTER OF PRICEWATERHOUSECOOPERS LLP, INDEPENDENT REGISTERED PUBLIC ACCOUNTING FIRM

EXHIBIT 18    

February
28, 2018   

Board of
Directors   

   Exxon Mobil Corporation   

   5959 Las Colinas Boulevard   

   Irving,
Texas 75039   

Dear
Directors:   

   We are
providing this letter to you for inclusion as an exhibit to Exxon Mobil
Corporation s (the  Corporation ) Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended
December 31, 2017 (the  Form 10-K ) pursuant to Item 601 of Regulation S-K.   

   We
have audited the consolidated       financial statements included in the Form
10-K and issued our report thereon dated February 28, 2018.  Note 2
 Accounting Changes        to the financial statements describes a change in
accounting principle related to the reporting of certain sales and value-added
taxes imposed on and concurrent with revenue-producing transactions with
customers and collected on behalf of governmental authorities ( Sales-based
taxes ) from gross reporting of Sales-based taxes on the Consolidated Statement
of Income (included in both  Sales and other operating revenue  and
 Sales-based taxes ) to net reporting (excluded from both  Sales and other
operating revenue  and  Sales-based taxes ).  It should be understood that the
preferability of one acceptable method of accounting over another for
Sales-based taxes has not been addressed in any authoritative accounting
literature, and in expressing our concurrence below we have relied on
management s determination that this change in accounting principle is
preferable.  Based on our reading of management s stated reasons and
justification for this change in accounting principle in the Form 10-K, and our
discussions with management as to their judgment about the relevant business
planning factors relating to the change, we concur with management that such
change represents, in the Corporation s circumstances, the adoption of a
preferable accounting principle in conformity with Accounting Standards
Codification 250,    Accounting Changes and Error Corrections   .    

Very truly
yours,   

   /s/ PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP   

Dallas, Texas   

</EX-18>

<EX-21>
 8
 xomexhibit21.htm
 SUBSIDIARIES OF THE REGISTRANT

EXHIBIT
21   

   Subsidiaries of the Registrant      (1), (2)      and      (3)      
  at December 31, 2017   

Percentage of  
    Voting Securities  
    Owned Directly  
    or Indirectly by  
    Registrant  

State or  
    Country of
  Organization  

Aera Energy LLC    (5)    

48.2  

California  

AKG Marketing Company Limited   

87.5  

Bahamas  

Al-Jubail Petrochemical Company    (4) (5)       

50  

Saudi Arabia  

Ampolex (Cepu) Pte Ltd  

100  

Singapore  

Ancon Insurance Company, Inc.   

100  

Vermont  

Barnett Gathering, LLC   

100  

Texas  

Barzan Gas Company Limited    (5)        

7  

Qatar  

BEB Erdgas und Erdoel GmbH   Co. KG    (4) (5)   

50   

Germany  

Cameroon Oil Transportation Company S.A.    (5)        

41.06  

Cameroon  

Canada Imperial Oil Limited  

69.6  

Canada  

Caspian Pipeline Consortium    (5)         

7.5  

Russia/Kazakhstan  

Cross Timbers Energy, LLC    (4) (5)   

50   

Delaware  

Ellora Energy Inc.   

100   

Delaware  

Esso Australia Pty Ltd  

100  

Australia  

Esso Australia Resources Pty Ltd   

100  

Australia  

Esso Deutschland GmbH   

100  

Germany  

Esso Erdgas Beteiligungsgesellschaft mbH   

100  

Germany  

Esso Exploration and Production Angola (Overseas)
  Limited  

100  

Bahamas  

Esso Exploration and Production Chad Inc.   

100  

Bahamas  

Esso Exploration and Production Guyana Limited  

100  

Bahamas  

Esso Exploration and Production Nigeria (Deepwater)
  Limited  

100  

Nigeria  

Esso Exploration and Production Nigeria (Offshore
  East) Limited  

100  

Nigeria  

Esso Exploration and Production Nigeria Limited  

100  

Nigeria  

Esso Exploration and Production UK Limited   

100  

United Kingdom  

Esso Exploration Angola (Block 15) Limited  

100  

Bahamas  

Esso Exploration Angola (Block 17) Limited  

100  

Bahamas  

Esso Global Investments Ltd.  

100  

Bahamas  

Esso Italiana S.r.l.   

100   

Italy  

Esso Nederland B.V.   

100  

Netherlands  

Esso Norge AS    

100  

Norway  

Esso Petroleum Company, Limited   

100  

United Kingdom  

Esso Raffinage    

82.89  

France  

Esso Societe Anonyme Francaise   

82.89  

France  

Esso (Thailand) Public Company Limited    

65.99  

Thailand  

Exxon Azerbaijan Limited    

100  

Bahamas  

Exxon Chemical Arabia Inc.   

100  

Delaware  

Exxon International Finance Company  

100  

Delaware  

Exxon Luxembourg Holdings LLC  

100  

Delaware  

Exxon Mobile Bay Limited Partnership  

100  

Delaware  

Exxon Neftegas Limited    

100  

Bahamas  

Exxon Overseas Corporation   

100  

Delaware  

Exxon Overseas Investment Corporation   

100  

Delaware  

ExxonMobil (China) Investment Co., Ltd.  

100  

China  

1   

Percentage of  
    Voting
  Securities  
    Owned Directly  
    or Indirectly by  
    Registrant  

State or  
    Country of
  Organization  

ExxonMobil (Taicang) Petroleum Co., Ltd.  

100  

China  

ExxonMobil Abu Dhabi Offshore Petroleum Company
  Limited   

100  

Bahamas  

ExxonMobil Alaska Production Inc.    

100  

Delaware  

ExxonMobil Asia Pacific Pte. Ltd.    

100  

Singapore  

ExxonMobil Australia Pty Ltd  

100  

Australia  

ExxonMobil Barzan Limited  

100  

Bahamas  

ExxonMobil Canada Ltd.    

100  

Canada   

ExxonMobil Canada Properties    

100  

Canada   

ExxonMobil Canada Resources Compa  ny    

100  

Canada  

ExxonMobil Capital Netherlands B.V.   

100  

Netherlands  

ExxonMobil Cepu Limited  

100  

Bermuda  

ExxonMobil Chemical France     

100  

France  

ExxonMobil Chemical Holland B.V.  

100  

Netherlands  

ExxonMobil Chemical Limited    

100  

United Kingdom  

ExxonMobil Chemical Operations Private Limited  

100  

Singapore  

ExxonMobil Chemical Services (Shanghai) Co., Ltd.  

100  

China  

ExxonMobil China Petroleum   Petrochemical Company
  Limited  

100  

Bahamas  

ExxonMobil Delaware Holdings Inc.  

100  

Delaware  

ExxonMobil Development Africa B.V.  

100  

Netherlands  

ExxonMobil Development Company   

100  

Delaware  

ExxonMobil Egypt (S.A.E.)  

100  

Egypt  

ExxonMobil Exploracao Brasil Ltda.  

100  

Brazil  

ExxonMobil Exploration and Production Malaysia Inc.  

100  

Delaware  

ExxonMobil Exploration and Production Norway AS    

100  

Norway  

ExxonMobil Exploration and Production Romania Limited  

100  

Bahamas  

ExxonMobil Exploration and Production Tanzania Limited  

100  

Bahamas  

ExxonMobil Finance Company Limited   

100  

United Kingdom  

ExxonMobil Financial Investment Company Limited  

100  

United Kingdom  

ExxonMobil France Holding SAS  

100  

France  

ExxonMobil Gas Marketing Europe Limited    

100  

United Kingdom  

ExxonMobil General Finance Company  

100  

Delaware  

ExxonMobil Global Services Company    

100  

Delaware  

ExxonMobil Holding Company Holland LLC    

100  

Delaware  

ExxonMobil Holding Norway AS  

100  

Norway  

ExxonMobil Hong Kong Limited    

100  

Hong Kong  

ExxonMobil International Services SARL  

100  

Luxembourg  

ExxonMobil Iraq Limited   

100  

Bahamas  

ExxonMobil Italiana Gas S.r.l.   

100   

Italy  

ExxonMobil Kazakhstan Inc.  

100  

Bahamas  

ExxonMobil Kazakhstan Ventures Inc.    

100  

Delaware  

ExxonMobil Lubricants Trading Company  

100  

Delaware  

ExxonMobil Oil Corporation    

100  

New York  

ExxonMobil Pensions-Verwaltungsgesellschaft mbH  

100  

Germany  

ExxonMobil Petroleum   Chemical BVBA  

100  

Belgium  

ExxonMobil Petroleum   Chemical Holdings Inc.  

100  

Delaware  

ExxonMobil Petroleum Finance Company   

100  

Delaware  

2   

Percentage of  
    Voting
  Securities  
    Owned Directly  
    or Indirectly by  
    Registrant  

State or  
    Country of
  Organization  

ExxonMobil Pipeline Company  

100  

Delaware  

ExxonMobil PNG Limited  

100  

Papua New Guinea  

ExxonMobil Producing Netherlands B.V.  

100  

Netherlands  

ExxonMobil Production Deutschland GmbH  

100  

Germany  

ExxonMobil Production Norway Inc.   

100  

Delaware  

ExxonMobil Qatargas Inc.    

100  

Delaware  

ExxonMobil Qatargas (II) Limited    

100  

Bahamas   

ExxonMobil Ras Laffan (III) Limited    

100  

Bahamas   

ExxonMobil Rasgas Inc.    

100  

Delaware  

ExxonMobil Research and Engineering Company  

100  

Delaware  

ExxonMobil Russia Kara Sea Holdings B.V.  

100  

Netherlands  

ExxonMobil Sales and Supply LLC    

100  

Delaware  

ExxonMobil Technology Finance Company   

100  

Delaware  

ExxonMobil Ventures Finance Company  

100  

Delaware  

ExxonMobil Ventures Funding Ltd.     

100  

Bahamas  

Fujian Refining   Petrochemical Co. Ltd.    (5)      

25  

China  

GCGV Asset Holding LLC    (4) (5)   

50  

Delaware  

Golden Pass LNG Terminal Investments LLC  

100  

Delaware  

Golden Pass LNG Terminal LLC    (5)         

17.6  

Delaware  

Imperial Oil Limited    

69.6  

Canada  

Imperial Oil Resources Limited  

69.6  

Canada  

Imperial Oil Resources N.W.T. Limited    

69.6  

Canada  

Imperial Oil/Petroliere Imperiale  

69.6  

Canada  

Infineum Holdings B.V.    (4) (5)   

50  

Netherlands  

Infineum Italia s.r.I.    (4) (5)   

50   

Italy  

Infineum Singapore Pte. Ltd.    (4) (5)   

50  

Singapore  

Infineum USA L.P.    (4) (5)   

50  

Delaware  

Karmorneftegaz Holding SARL    (5)        

33.33  

Luxembourg  

Marine Well Containment Company LLC    (5)    

10  

Delaware  

Mobil Africa Sales Inc.  

100  

Delaware  

Mobil Australia Resources Company Pty Limited   

100  

Australia  

Mobil California Exploration   Producing Asset
  Company   

100  

Delaware  

Mobil Caspian Pipeline Company    

100  

Delaware  

Mobil Chemical Products International Inc.  

100  

Delaware  

Mobil Corporation    

100  

Delaware  

Mobil Equatorial Guinea Inc.    

100  

Delaware  

Mobil Erdgas Verwaltungsgesellschaft mbH  

100  

Germany  

Mobil Exploration   Producing Australia Pty Ltd  

100  

Australia  

Mobil International Petroleum Corporation  

100  

Delaware  

Mobil Oil Australia Pty Ltd   

100  

Australia  

Mobil Oil Exploration   Producing Southeast Inc.    

100  

Delaware  

Mobil Oil New Zealand Limited   

100  

New Zealand  

Mobil Producing Nigeria Unlimited    

100  

Nigeria  

Mobil Producing Texas   New Mexico Inc.  

100  

Delaware  

Mobil Services (Bahamas) Limited  

100  

Bahamas  

Mobil Yanbu Petrochemical Company Inc.  

100  

Delaware  

3   

Percentage of  
    Voting
  Securities  
    Owned Directly  
    or Indirectly by  
    Registrant  

State or  
    Country of
  Organization  

Mobil Yanbu Refining Company Inc.   

100  

Delaware  

Mountain Gathering, LLC   

100  

Delaware  

Mozambique Rovuma Venture, S.p.A.    (5)    

35.714   

Italy  

Nederlandse Aardolie Maatschappij B.V.    (4) (5)    

50  

Netherlands  

Palmetto Transoceanic LLC  

100  

Delaware  

Papua New Guinea Liquefied Natural Gas Global Company
  LDC    (5)    

33.2  

Bahamas  

Permian Express Partners LLC    (5)    

12.3  

Delaware  

Phillips Exploration, LLC  

100   

Delaware  

Qatar Liquefied Gas Company Limited    (5)    

10  

Qatar  

Qatar Liquefied Gas Company Limited (2)    (5)    

24.15  

Qatar  

Ras Laffan Liquefied Natural Gas Company Limited    (5)    

24.999  

Qatar  

Ras Laffan Liquefied Natural Gas Company Limited (II)    (5)     

30.517  

Qatar  

Ras Laffan Liquefied Natural Gas Company Limited (3)    (5)    

30  

Qatar  

Saudi Aramco Mobil Refinery Company Ltd.    (4) (5)    

50  

Saudi Arabia  

Saudi Yanbu Petrochemical Co.    (4) (5)   

50  

Saudi Arabia  

SeaRiver Maritime, Inc.  

100  

Delaware  

South Hook LNG Terminal Company Limited    (5)    

24.15  

United Kingdom  

SPI (208) Limited  

100  

Papua New Guinea  

Tengizchevroil, LLP    (5)    

25  

Kazakhstan  

Terminale GNL Adriatico S.r.l    (5)         

70.678   

Italy  

Thru Line O G NM, L.L.C.  

100  

Texas  

Trend Gathering   Treating, LLC  

100  

Texas  

Wolverine Pipe Line Company   

53.39  

Delaware  

XH, LLC   

100  

Delaware  

XTO Energy Canada  

84.80  

Canada  

XTO Energy Inc.    

100  

Delaware  

XTO Holdings, LLC  

100  

Delaware  

______________  

  NOTES:  

(1)   

For
  the purposes of this list, if the registrant owns directly or indirectly
  approximately 50 percent of the voting securities of any person and
  approximately 50 percent of the voting securities of such person is owned
  directly or indirectly by another interest, or if the registrant includes its
  share of net income of any other unconsolidated person in consolidated net
  income, such person is deemed to be a subsidiary.   

(2)   

With
  respect to certain companies, shares in names of nominees and qualifying
  shares in names of directors are included in the above percentages.   

(3)

The
  names of other subsidiaries have been omitted from the above list since
  considered in the aggregate, they would not constitute a significant
  subsidiary under Securities and Exchange Commission Regulation S-X, Rule
  1-02(w).   

(4)   

The
  registrant owns directly or indirectly approximately 50 percent of the
  securities of this person and approximately 50 percent of the voting
  securities of this person is owned directly or indirectly by another single
  interest.   

(5)   

The
  investment in this unconsolidated person is represented by the registrant's
  percentage interest in the underlying net assets of such person. The
  accounting for these unconsolidated persons is referred to as the equity
  method of accounting.   

4   

</EX-21>

<EX-23>
 9
 xomexhibit23.htm
 CONSENT OF PRICEWATERHOUSECOOPERS LLP, INDEPENDENT REGISTERED PUBLIC ACCOUNTING FIRM

EXHIBIT 23   

CONSENT OF INDEPENDENT REGISTERED PUBLIC
ACCOUNTING FIRM   

We
hereby consent to the incorporation by reference in the following   Exxon Mobil Corporation Registration Statements on:   

of
our report dated February 28, 2018, relating to the financial statements and
the effectiveness of internal control over financial reporting, which appears
in this Form 10-K.  

/s/
PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP  

Dallas,
Texas  

  February
28, 2018  

</EX-23>

<EX-31.1>
 10
 xomexhibit311.htm
 CERTIFICATION (PURSUANT TO SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT RULE 13A-14(A)) BY CHIEF EXECUTIVE OFFICER

EXHIBIT 31.1   

Certification by Darren W. Woods   

   Pursuant to Securities Exchange Act Rule
13a-    14(a)    

I,
Darren W. Woods, certify that:  

1.           I have reviewed
this annual report on Form 10-K of Exxon Mobil Corporation;  

2.           Based on my
knowledge, this report does not contain any untrue statement of a material fact
or omit to state a material fact necessary to make the statements made, in
light of the circumstances under which such statements were made, not
misleading with respect to the period covered by this report;  

3.           Based on my
knowledge, the financial statements, and other financial information included
in this report, fairly present in all material respects the financial
condition, results of operations and cash flows of the registrant as of, and
for, the periods presented in this report;  

4.           The registrant s
other certifying officers and I are responsible for establishing and
maintaining disclosure controls and procedures (as defined in Exchange Act
Rules 13a-15(e) and 15d-15(e)) and internal control over financial reporting
(as defined in Exchange Act Rules 13a-15(f) and 15d-15(f)) for the registrant
and have:  

(a)         Designed such
disclosure controls and procedures, or caused such disclosure controls and
procedures to be designed under our supervision, to ensure that material
information relating to the registrant, including its consolidated
subsidiaries, is made known to us by others within those entities, particularly
during the period in which this report is being prepared;  

(b)      
  Designed
such internal control over financial reporting, or caused such internal control
over financial reporting to be designed under our supervision, to provide
reasonable assurance regarding the reliability of financial reporting and the
preparation of financial statements for external purposes in accordance with
generally accepted accounting principles;  

(c)         Evaluated the
effectiveness of the registrant's disclosure controls and procedures and
presented in this report our conclusions about the effectiveness of the
disclosure controls and procedures, as of the end of the period covered by this
report based on such evaluation; and  

(d)         Disclosed in
this report any change in the registrant's internal control over financial
reporting that occurred during the registrant's most recent fiscal quarter (the
registrant's fourth fiscal quarter in the case of an annual report) that has
materially affected, or is reasonably likely to materially affect, the
registrant's internal control over financial reporting; and  

5.           The registrant's
other certifying officers and I have disclosed, based on our most recent
evaluation of internal control over financial reporting, to the registrant's
auditors and the audit committee of the registrant's board of directors (or
persons performing the equivalent functions):  

(a)         All significant
deficiencies and material weaknesses in the design or operation of internal
control over financial reporting which are reasonably likely to adversely
affect the registrant's ability to record, process, summarize and report
financial information; and  

(b)         Any fraud,
whether or not material, that involves management or other employees who have a
significant role in the registrant's internal control over financial reporting.  

Date: February 28,
  2018    

/s/  DARREN W. WOODS  

Darren W. Woods  

Chief Executive Officer  

</EX-31.1>

<EX-31.2>
 11
 xomexhibit312.htm
 CERTIFICATION (PURSUANT TO SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT RULE 13A-14(A)) BY PRINCIPAL FINANCIAL OFFICER

EXHIBIT 31.2   

Certification by Andrew P. Swiger   

   Pursuant to Securities Exchange Act Rule
13a-    14(a)    

I,
Andrew P. Swiger, certify that:  

1.           I have reviewed
this annual report on Form 10-K of Exxon Mobil Corporation;  

2.           Based on my
knowledge, this report does not contain any untrue statement of a material fact
or omit to state a material fact necessary to make the statements made, in
light of the circumstances under which such statements were made, not
misleading with respect to the period covered by this report;  

3.           Based on my
knowledge, the financial statements, and other financial information included
in this report, fairly present in all material respects the financial
condition, results of operations and cash flows of the registrant as of, and
for, the periods presented in this report;  

4.           The registrant s
other certifying officers and I are responsible for establishing and
maintaining disclosure controls and procedures (as defined in Exchange Act
Rules 13a-15(e) and 15d-15(e)) and internal control over financial reporting
(as defined in Exchange Act Rules 13a-15(f) and 15d-15(f)) for the registrant
and have:  

(a)         Designed such
disclosure controls and procedures, or caused such disclosure controls and
procedures to be designed under our supervision, to ensure that material
information relating to the registrant, including its consolidated
subsidiaries, is made known to us by others within those entities, particularly
during the period in which this report is being prepared;  

(b)      
  Designed
such internal control over financial reporting, or caused such internal control
over financial reporting to be designed under our supervision, to provide
reasonable assurance regarding the reliability of financial reporting and the
preparation of financial statements for external purposes in accordance with
generally accepted accounting principles;  

(c)         Evaluated the
effectiveness of the registrant's disclosure controls and procedures and
presented in this report our conclusions about the effectiveness of the
disclosure controls and procedures, as of the end of the period covered by this
report based on such evaluation; and  

(d)         Disclosed in
this report any change in the registrant's internal control over financial
reporting that occurred during the registrant's most recent fiscal quarter (the
registrant's fourth fiscal quarter in the case of an annual report) that has
materially affected, or is reasonably likely to materially affect, the
registrant's internal control over financial reporting; and  

5.           The registrant's
other certifying officers and I have disclosed, based on our most recent
evaluation of internal control over financial reporting, to the registrant's
auditors and the audit committee of the registrant's board of directors (or
persons performing the equivalent functions):  

(a)         All significant
deficiencies and material weaknesses in the design or operation of internal
control over financial reporting which are reasonably likely to adversely
affect the registrant's ability to record, process, summarize and report
financial information; and  

(b)         Any fraud,
whether or not material, that involves management or other employees who have a
significant role in the registrant's internal control over financial reporting.  

Date: February
  28, 2018    

/s/ 
  ANDREW P. SWIGER  

Andrew P. Swiger   

Senior Vice President  

(Principal Financial Officer)  

</EX-31.2>

<EX-31.3>
 12
 xomexhibit313.htm
 CERTIFICATION (PURSUANT TO SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT RULE 13A-14(A)) BY PRINCIPAL ACCOUNTING OFFICER

EXHIBIT 31.3   

Certification by David S. Rosenthal   

   Pursuant to Securities Exchange Act Rule
13a-    14(a)    

I,
David S. Rosenthal, certify that:  

1.           I have reviewed
this annual report on Form 10-K of Exxon Mobil Corporation;  

2.           Based on my
knowledge, this report does not contain any untrue statement of a material fact
or omit to state a material fact necessary to make the statements made, in
light of the circumstances under which such statements were made, not
misleading with respect to the period covered by this report;   

3.           Based on my
knowledge, the financial statements, and other financial information included
in this report, fairly present in all material respects the financial
condition, results of operations and cash flows of the registrant as of, and
for, the periods presented in this report;   

4.           The registrant s
other certifying officers and I are responsible for establishing and
maintaining disclosure controls and procedures (as defined in Exchange Act
Rules 13a-15(e) and 15d-15(e)) and internal control over financial reporting
(as defined in Exchange Act Rules 13a-15(f) and 15d-15(f)) for the registrant
and have:   

(a)         Designed such
disclosure controls and procedures, or caused such disclosure controls and
procedures to be designed under our supervision, to ensure that material
information relating to the registrant, including its consolidated
subsidiaries, is made known to us by others within those entities, particularly
during the period in which this report is being prepared;  

(b)      
  Designed
such internal control over financial reporting, or caused such internal control
over financial reporting to be designed under our supervision, to provide
reasonable assurance regarding the reliability of financial reporting and the
preparation of financial statements for external purposes in accordance with
generally accepted accounting principles;  

(c)         Evaluated the
effectiveness of the registrant's disclosure controls and procedures and
presented in this report our conclusions about the effectiveness of the
disclosure controls and procedures, as of the end of the period covered by this
report based on such evaluation; and  

(d)         Disclosed in
this report any change in the registrant's internal control over financial
reporting that occurred during the registrant's most recent fiscal quarter (the
registrant's fourth fiscal quarter in the case of an annual report) that has
materially affected, or is reasonably likely to materially affect, the
registrant's internal control over financial reporting; and   

5.           The registrant's
other certifying officers and I have disclosed, based on our most recent
evaluation of internal control over financial reporting, to the registrant's
auditors and the audit committee of the registrant's board of directors (or
persons performing the equivalent functions):  

(a)         All significant
deficiencies and material weaknesses in the design or operation of internal
control over financial reporting which are reasonably likely to adversely
affect the registrant's ability to record, process, summarize and report
financial information; and  

(b)         Any fraud,
whether or not material, that involves management or other employees who have a
significant role in the registrant's internal control over financial reporting.  

Date: February 28,
  2018   

/s/  DAVID S. ROSENTHAL  

David S. Rosenthal  

Vice President and Controller  

(Principal Accounting Officer)  

</EX-31.3>

<EX-32.1>
 13
 xomexhibit321.htm
 SECTION 1350 CERTIFICATION (PURSUANT TO SARBANES-OXLEY SECTION 906) BY CHIEF EXECUTIVE OFFICER

EXHIBIT 32.1   

Certification of Periodic
Financial Report   

   Pursuant to 18 U.S.C.
Section 1350   

For purposes of 18 U.S.C. Section 1350, as adopted pursuant to
Section 906 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, the undersigned, Darren W.
Woods, the chief executive officer of Exxon Mobil Corporation (the  Company ),
hereby certifies that, to his knowledge:  

(i)        
  the Annual Report on Form 10-K of the Company for the year ended
December 31, 2017, as filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission on the
date hereof (the  Report ) fully complies with the requirements of section
13(a) or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934; and   

(ii)         the
information contained in the Report fairly presents, in all material respects,
the financial condition and results of operations of the Company.   

Date: February
  28, 2018  

/s/  DARREN W. WOODS  

Darren W. Woods  

Chief Executive Officer  

A signed original of this written statement required by Section
906 has been provided to Exxon Mobil Corporation and will be retained by Exxon
Mobil Corporation and furnished to the Securities and Exchange Commission or
its staff upon request.  

</EX-32.1>

<EX-32.2>
 14
 xomexhibit322.htm
 SECTION 1350 CERTIFICATION (PURSUANT TO SARBANES-OXLEY SECTION 906) BY PRINCIPAL FINANCIAL OFFICER

EXHIBIT 32.2   

Certification of Periodic
Financial Report   

   Pursuant to 18 U.S.C.
Section 1350   

For purposes of 18 U.S.C. Section 1350, as adopted pursuant to
Section 906 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, the undersigned, Andrew P.
Swiger, the principal financial officer of Exxon Mobil Corporation (the
 Company ), hereby certifies that, to his knowledge:   

(i)        
  the Annual Report on Form 10-K of the Company for the year ended
December 31, 2017, as filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission on the
date hereof (the  Report ) fully complies with the requirements of section
13(a) or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934; and   

(ii)         the
information contained in the Report fairly presents, in all material respects,
the financial condition and results of operations of the Company.   

Date: February 28,
  2018    

/s/  ANDREW P. SWIGER  

Andrew P. Swiger  

Senior Vice President  

(Principal Financial Officer)  

A signed original of this written statement required by Section
906 has been provided to Exxon Mobil Corporation and will be retained by Exxon
Mobil Corporation and furnished to the Securities and Exchange Commission or
its staff upon request.  

</EX-32.2>

<EX-32.3>
 15
 xomexhibit323.htm
 SECTION 1350 CERTIFICATION (PURSUANT TO SARBANES-OXLEY SECTION 906) BY PRINCIPAL ACCOUNTING OFFICER

EXHIBIT 32.3   

Certification of Periodic
Financial Report   

   Pursuant to 18 U.S.C.
Section 1350   

For purposes of 18 U.S.C. Section 1350, as adopted pursuant to
Section 906 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, the undersigned, David S.
Rosenthal, the principal accounting officer of Exxon Mobil Corporation (the
 Company ), hereby certifies that, to his knowledge:   

(i)        
  the Annual Report on Form 10-K of the Company for the year ended
December 31, 2017, as filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission on the
date hereof (the  Report ) fully complies with the requirements of section
13(a) or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934; and   

(ii)         the
information contained in the Report fairly presents, in all material respects,
the financial condition and results of operations of the Company.   

Date: February 28,
  2018    

/s/ 
  DAVID S. ROSENTHAL  

David S. Rosenthal  

Vice President and Controller  

(Principal Accounting Officer)  

A signed original of this written statement required by Section
906 has been provided to Exxon Mobil Corporation and will be retained by Exxon
Mobil Corporation and furnished to the Securities and Exchange Commission or
its staff upon request.  

</EX-32.3>

<EX-101.INS>
 22
 xom-20171231.xml
 XBRL INSTANCE DOCUMENT

</EX-101.INS>

<EX-101.SCH>
 23
 xom-20171231.xsd
 XBRL TAXONOMY EXTENSION SCHEMA

</EX-101.SCH>

<EX-101.CAL>
 24
 xom-20171231_cal.xml
 XBRL TAXONOMY EXTENSION CALCULATION LINKBASE

</EX-101.CAL>

<EX-101.DEF>
 25
 xom-20171231_def.xml
 XBRL TAXONOMY EXTENSION DEFINITION LINKBASE

</EX-101.DEF>

<EX-101.LAB>
 26
 xom-20171231_lab.xml
 XBRL TAXONOMY EXTENSION LABEL LINKBASE

</EX-101.LAB>

<EX-101.PRE>
 27
 xom-20171231_pre.xml
 XBRL TAXONOMY EXTENSION PRESENTATION LINKBASE

</EX-101.PRE>

