<Header>
<FileStats>
    <FileName>20080220_10-K_edgar_data_50863_0000891618-08-000106_1.txt</FileName>
    <GrossFileSize>1776685</GrossFileSize>
    <NetFileSize>393156</NetFileSize>
    <NonText_DocumentType_Chars>16760</NonText_DocumentType_Chars>
    <HTML_Chars>976027</HTML_Chars>
    <XBRL_Chars>0</XBRL_Chars>
    <XML_Chars>0</XML_Chars>
    <N_Tables>87</N_Tables>
    <N_Exhibits>10</N_Exhibits>
</FileStats>
<SEC-Header>
0000891618-08-000106.hdr.sgml : 20080220
<ACCEPTANCE-DATETIME>20080219195019
ACCESSION NUMBER:		0000891618-08-000106
CONFORMED SUBMISSION TYPE:	10-K
PUBLIC DOCUMENT COUNT:		12
CONFORMED PERIOD OF REPORT:	20071229
FILED AS OF DATE:		20080220
DATE AS OF CHANGE:		20080219

FILER:

	COMPANY DATA:	
		COMPANY CONFORMED NAME:			INTEL CORP
		CENTRAL INDEX KEY:			0000050863
		STANDARD INDUSTRIAL CLASSIFICATION:	SEMICONDUCTORS & RELATED DEVICES [3674]
		IRS NUMBER:				941672743
		STATE OF INCORPORATION:			DE
		FISCAL YEAR END:			1231

	FILING VALUES:
		FORM TYPE:		10-K
		SEC ACT:		1934 Act
		SEC FILE NUMBER:	000-06217
		FILM NUMBER:		08628122

	BUSINESS ADDRESS:	
		STREET 1:		2200 MISSION COLLEGE BLVD
		STREET 2:		RNB-4-151
		CITY:			SANTA CLARA
		STATE:			CA
		ZIP:			95054
		BUSINESS PHONE:		4087658080

	MAIL ADDRESS:	
		STREET 1:		2200 MISSION COLLEGE BLVD
		STREET 2:		RNB-4-151
		CITY:			SANTA CLARA
		STATE:			CA
		ZIP:			95054

</SEC-Header>
</Header>

 
Proc-Type: 2001,MIC-CLEAR
Originator-Name: webmaster@www.sec.gov
Originator-Key-Asymmetric:
 MFgwCgYEVQgBAQICAf8DSgAwRwJAW2sNKK9AVtBzYZmr6aGjlWyK3XmZv3dTINen
 TWSM7vrzLADbmYQaionwg5sDW3P6oaM5D3tdezXMm7z1T+B+twIDAQAB
MIC-Info: RSA-MD5,RSA,
 F8yhGyLIKdZXpH1Jq4KQczyFkCK1z46OKLJ7wGOLEQnHUuKil361Wk3Z/Wt3+Aoq
 IPITj9PWZ40WPE+GjrDL/Q==

 0000891618-08-000106.txt : 20080220

10-K
 1
 f36442e10vk.htm
 FORM 10-K

e10vk 

Table of Contents   

UNITED STATES SECURITIES AND
    EXCHANGE COMMISSION 
      Washington, D.C.
    20549  

FORM 10-K   

(Mark One) 

For
    the fiscal year ended December 29, 2007. 

For
    the transition period from
                          
    to
                          . 

Commission File Number
     000-06217  

INTEL CORPORATION  

(Exact name of registrant as specified in its charter)

Registrant s telephone number, including area code
      (408) 765-8080  

Securities registered pursuant to Section 12(b) of the Act:

Title of each class 

Name of each exchange on which registered 

Common stock, $0.001 par value

The NASDAQ Global Select Market*

Securities registered pursuant to Section 12(g) of the Act:

None

Indicate by check mark if the registrant is a well-known
    seasoned issuer, as defined in Rule 405 of the Securities
    Act.  Yes       No     

Indicate by check mark if the registrant is not required to file
    reports pursuant to Section 13 or 15(d) of the
    Act.  Yes       No     

Indicate by check mark whether the registrant (1) has
    filed all reports required to be filed by Section 13 or
    15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 during the
    preceding 12 months (or for such shorter period that the
    registrant was required to file such reports), and (2) has
    been subject to such filing requirements for the past
    90 days.  Yes       No     

Indicate by check mark if disclosure of delinquent filers
    pursuant to Item 405 of
     Regulation S-K 
    ( 229.405 of this chapter) is not contained herein, and
    will not be contained, to the best of registrant s
    knowledge, in definitive proxy or information statements
    incorporated by reference in Part III of this
     Form 10-K 
    or any amendment to this
     Form 10-K.       

Indicate by check mark whether the registrant is a large
    accelerated filer, an accelerated filer, a non-accelerated
    filer, or a smaller reporting company. See the definitions of
     large accelerated filer,   accelerated
    filer  and  smaller reporting company  in
     Rule 12b-2 
    of the Exchange Act. (Check one):

Large accelerated filer

Accelerated
    filer     

Non-accelerated
    filer     

Smaller reporting
    company     

(Do not check if a smaller
    reporting company)

Indicate by check mark whether the registrant is a shell company
    (as defined in
     Rule 12b-2 
    of the
    Act).  Yes       No     

Aggregate market value of voting and non-voting common equity
    held by non-affiliates of the registrant as of June 29,
    2007, based upon the closing price of the common stock as
    reported by The NASDAQ Global Select Market* on such date, was
    approximately

$137.9 billion

5,788 million shares of common stock outstanding as of
    February 8, 2008

DOCUMENTS
    INCORPORATED BY REFERENCE  

(1)  
     
    Portions of the registrant s Proxy Statement relating to
    its 2008 Annual Stockholders  Meeting, to be filed
    subsequently Part III.

INTEL
    CORPORATION 

FORM 10-K  

FOR THE
    FISCAL YEAR ENDED DECEMBER 29, 2007 

INDEX  

Page 

PART I  

Item 1. 

Business 

1

Item 1A. 

Risk Factors 

15

Item 1B. 

Unresolved Staff Comments 

20

Item 2. 

Properties 

20

Item 3. 

Legal Proceedings 

20

Item 4. 

Submission of Matters to a Vote of Security
    Holders 

20

PART II  

Item 5. 

Market for Registrant s Common Equity,
    Related Stockholder Matters and Issuer Purchases of Equity
    Securities 

21

Item 6. 

Selected Financial Data 

23

Item 7. 

Management s Discussion and Analysis of
    Financial Condition and Results of Operation 

24

Item 7A. 

Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About
    Market Risk 

44

Item 8. 

Financial Statements and Supplementary Data 

46

Item 9. 

Changes in and Disagreements With Accountants on
    Accounting and Financial Disclosure 

95

Item 9A. 

Controls and Procedures 

95

Item 9B. 

Other Information 

95

PART III  

Item 10. 

Directors, Executive Officers and Corporate
    Governance 

96

Item 11. 

Executive Compensation 

96

Item 12. 

Security Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owners
    and Management and Related Stockholder Matters 

96

Item 13. 

Certain Relationships and Related Transactions,
    and Director Independence 

97

Item 14. 

Principal Accounting Fees and Services 

97

PART IV  

Item 15. 

Exhibits, Financial Statement Schedules 

98

Table of Contents   

PART I  

ITEM 1. BUSINESS  

Industry  

We are the world s largest semiconductor chip maker, based
    on revenue. We develop advanced integrated digital technology
    products, primarily integrated circuits, for industries such as
    computing and communications. Integrated circuits are
    semiconductor chips etched with interconnected electronic
    switches. We also develop platforms, which we define as
    integrated suites of digital computing technologies that are
    designed and configured to work together to provide an optimized
    user computing solution compared to ingredients that are used
    separately. Our goal is to be the preeminent provider of
    semiconductor chips and platforms for the worldwide digital
    economy. We offer products at various levels of integration,
    allowing our customers flexibility to create advanced computing
    and communications systems and products.

We were incorporated in California in 1968 and reincorporated in
    Delaware in 1989. Our Internet address is  www.intel.com .
    On this web site, we publish voluntary reports, which we update
    annually, outlining our performance with respect to corporate
    responsibility, including environmental, health, and safety
    compliance. On our Investor Relations web site, located at
     www.intc.com , we post the following filings as soon as
    reasonably practicable after they are electronically filed with,
    or furnished to, the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission
    (SEC): our annual, quarterly, and current reports on
     Forms 10-K, 
     10-Q,  and
     8-K;  our
    proxy statements; and any amendments to those reports or
    statements. All such filings are available on our Investor
    Relations web site free of charge. The SEC also maintains a web
    site ( www.sec.gov ) that contains reports, proxy and
    information statements, and other information regarding issuers
    that file electronically with the SEC. The content on any web
    site referred to in this
     Form 10-K 
    is not incorporated by reference into this
     Form 10-K 
    unless expressly noted.

Products  

We currently offer products in a broad range of categories.
    These products include:

microprocessors with one, two, or four processor cores, designed
    for desktops, workstations, servers, notebooks, embedded
    products, communications products, and consumer electronics;

chipsets designed for desktops, workstations, servers,
    notebooks, embedded products, communications products, and
    consumer electronics;

motherboard products designed for our desktop, workstation, and
    server platforms;

NAND flash memory products primarily used in digital audio
    players, memory cards, and system-level applications, such as
    solid-state drives;

NOR flash memory products (during the first quarter of 2008, we
    expect to complete the divestiture of our NOR flash memory
    assets to Numonyx; see  Note 13: Divestitures  in Part
    II, Item 8 of this Form 10-K);

wired and wireless Internet connectivity products, including
    network adapters and embedded wireless cards, based on
    industry-standard technologies used to translate and transmit
    data in packets across networks;

other communications infrastructure products including
    network processors, communications boards, and optical
    transponders that are basic building blocks for modular
    communications platforms;

networked storage products that allow storage resources to be
    added to either of the two most prevalent types of networking
    technology: Ethernet or Fibre Channel; and

software products and services that help enable and advance the
    computing ecosystem.

We offer features to improve microprocessor capabilities that
    can enhance system performance and user experience. For example,
    we offer
    Intel   
    Active Management Technology
    (Intel   
    AMT), which helps information technology managers diagnose, fix,
    and protect enabled systems that are plugged into a power source
    and connected to a network, even if a computer is turned off or
    has a failed hard drive or operating system. We also offer
    Intel   
    Virtualization Technology
    (Intel   
    VT), which can enable a single computer system to function as
    multiple virtual systems by running multiple operating systems
    and applications, thereby consolidating workloads and providing
    increased security and management capabilities. In addition, our
    Intel   
    Core  tm  
    microarchitecture includes other features that can increase
    performance and energy efficiency. To take advantage of these
    features, a computer system must have a microprocessor that
    supports a chipset and BIOS (basic input/output system) that
    use, and software that is optimized for, the technology.
    Performance will vary depending on the system hardware and
    software used.

1

Table of Contents   

We offer platforms that incorporate various components and
    technologies. A platform typically includes a microprocessor,
    chipset, and enabling software and may include additional
    hardware, services, and support. In developing our platforms, we
    may include components made by other companies. A component is
    one of any number of software or hardware features that may be
    incorporated into a computer, handheld device, or other
    computing system, including a microprocessor, chipset,
    motherboard, memory, wired or wireless connectivity device, or
    software. We refer to the platform brands within our product
    offerings as processor technologies.

We strive to design computing and communications systems and
    devices with improved overall performance and/or improved
     energy-efficient 
    performance. Improved overall performance can include faster
    processing performance and other improved capabilities such as
    multithreading and multitasking. Performance can also be
    improved through enhanced connectivity, security, manageability,
    utilization, reliability, ease of use, and interoperability
    among devices. Improved energy-efficient performance involves
    balancing the addition of improved performance factors with
    lower power consumption. Lower power consumption may reduce
    system heat output, thereby providing power savings and reducing
    the total cost of ownership for the user.

Following is detailed information on our major product
    categories:

A  microprocessor  is the central processing unit (CPU) of
    a computer system. It processes system data and controls other
    devices in the system, acting as the  brains  of the
    computer. The following characteristics of a microprocessor may
    affect overall performance:

Multi-core processors.  Multi-core processors contain
    two or more processor cores, which enable improved multitasking
    and energy-efficient performance because computing tasks can be
    distributed across multiple cores.

CPU design.  Microprocessor design can refer to the
    microarchitecture and/or the architecture. We use the term
     microarchitecture  when referring to the layout,
    density, and logical design of each product generation. The term
     architecture  generally refers to the largest size of
    numerical data that a microprocessor can handle, measured in
    bits (the smallest unit of information).
    Intel   
    Itanium   
    branded products are based on our 64-bit architecture (IA-64);
    our other microprocessor products are based on our 32-bit
    architecture (IA-32). Microprocessors with 64-bit processing
    capability can address significantly more memory than 32-bit
    microprocessors. One way to provide 64-bit processing capability
    is for processors based on 32-bit architecture to have 64-bit
    address extensions. The majority of our microprocessors are
    equipped with
    Intel   
    64 architecture, which provides 64-bit address extensions,
    supporting both 32-bit and 64-bit software applications.

Clock speed.  Clock speed is the rate at which a
    microprocessor s internal logic operates and is one measure
    of a microprocessor s performance.

Memory size and access speed.  Cache is a memory that
    can be located directly on the microprocessor, permitting
    quicker access to frequently used data and instructions. Some of
    our microprocessors have additional levels of cache to enable
    higher levels of performance. Memory storage is measured in
    bytes (8 bits per byte), with 1,024 bytes equaling a kilobyte
    (KB), 1.049 million bytes equaling a megabyte (MB), and
    1.074 billion bytes equaling a gigabyte (GB).

Speed of communication between the CPU and the
    chipset.  A bus carries data between parts of the
    system. A faster bus allows for faster data transfer into and
    out of the processor, enabling increased performance.

The  chipset  operates as the PC s  nervous
    system,  sending data between the microprocessor and input,
    display, and storage devices, such as the keyboard, mouse,
    monitor, hard drive, and CD or DVD drive. Chipsets perform
    essential logic functions, such as balancing the performance of
    the system and removing bottlenecks. Chipsets also extend the
    graphics, audio, video, and other capabilities of many systems
    based on our microprocessors. Finally, chipsets control the
    access between the CPU and main memory.

A  motherboard  is the principal board within a system. A
    motherboard has connectors for attaching devices to the bus, and
    typically contains the CPU, memory, and the chipset.

Flash memory  is a specialized type of memory component
    used to store user data and program code; it retains this
    information even when the power is off, and provides faster
    access to data than traditional hard drives. Flash memory has no
    moving parts, unlike devices such as rapidly spinning disk
    drives, allowing flash memory to be more tolerant of bumps and
    shocks. Flash memory is based on either NOR or NAND
    architecture. NOR flash memory, with its fast access or
     read  capabilities, has traditionally been used to
    store executable code. NAND flash memory, which is slower in
    reading data but faster in writing data, has become the
    preferred flash memory for storing large quantities of data.

2

Table of Contents   

Wired and wireless Internet connectivity products,  such
    as network adapters and embedded wireless cards, are based on
     industry-standard 
    technologies used to translate and transmit data in packets
    across networks. Our wireless connectivity products are based on
    either the 802.11 or 802.16 industry standard. The 802.11
    communication standard refers to a family of specifications
    commonly known as WiFi technology. We also have developed and
    are developing wireless connectivity products for both mobile
    and fixed networks based on the 802.16 industry standard,
    commonly known as WiMAX, which is short for Worldwide
    Interoperability for Microwave Access. WiMAX is a
    standards-based wireless technology providing high-speed
    broadband connectivity that makes it possible to connect users
    to networks wirelessly, as well as networks to other networks,
    up to several miles apart.

Communications infrastructure products  include advanced,
    programmable processors used in networking equipment that
    rapidly manage and direct data moving across the Internet and
    networks. Our modular communications platforms are based on
    telecommunications industry standards, such as carrier grade,
    allowing communications and media services to be managed
    independently from the network itself. Unlike proprietary
    systems platforms, carrier-grade, rack-mount servers based on
    our modular communications platforms are standards-based
    solutions that offer network infrastructure builders flexible,
    low-cost, low-power-consumption options for designing their
    networks.

Below, we discuss our key products and processor technologies,
    including some key introductions, for our major operating
    segments. For a discussion of our strategy, see
     Management s Discussion and Analysis of Financial
    Condition and Results of Operation  in Part II,
    Item 7 of this
     Form 10-K. 

Digital
    Enterprise Group   

The Digital Enterprise Group (DEG) s products are
    incorporated into desktop computers, enterprise computing
    servers, workstations, a broad range of embedded applications,
    and other products that help make up the infrastructure for the
    Internet. DEG s products include microprocessors and
    related chipsets and motherboards designed for the desktop and
    enterprise computing market segments; microprocessors, chipsets,
    and other components for communications infrastructure
    equipment, such as network processors, communications boards,
    and embedded processors; wired connectivity devices; and
    products for network and server storage.

Net revenue for the DEG operating segment constituted 53% of our
    consolidated net revenue in 2007 (56% in 2006 and 65% in 2005).
    Revenue from sales of microprocessors within the DEG operating
    segment represented 40% of consolidated net revenue in 2007 (41%
    in 2006 and 50% in 2005).

Desktop
    Market Segment  

Our current desktop microprocessor offerings include the:

Intel   
Core  tm  2
Quad processor

Intel   
    Celeron   
     Dual-Core 
    processor

Intel   
Core  tm  2
Duo processor

Intel   
    Celeron   
    processor

Intel   
    Pentium   
    Dual-Core processor

Most of these microprocessors are based on the Intel Core
    microarchitecture. Intel Core microarchitecture-based processors
    are designed for energy-efficient performance and are
    manufactured using either 65- or 45-nanometer (nm) process
    technology. We offer microprocessors at a variety of
    price/performance points: from the high-end Intel Core 2
    Quad processor with four processor cores, designed for
     processor-intensive 
    tasks in demanding multitasking environments, to the Intel
    Celeron processor designed to provide value, quality, and
    reliability for basic computing needs. The related chipsets for
    our desktop microprocessor offerings primarily include the
    Intel   
    945G Chipset, the
    Intel   
    Q965 Chipset, and
    Intel   
    3 Series Chipsets.

We also offer processor technologies based on our
    microprocessors, chipsets, and motherboard products that are
    optimized for the desktop market segment. For business desktop
    PCs, we offer the
    Intel   
    Core  tm  2
    processor with
    vPro  tm  
    technology, which is designed to provide increased security and
    manageability, energy-efficient performance, and lower cost of
    ownership.

3

Table of Contents   

Our new product offerings in 2007 and early 2008 include:

Intel Core 2 Quad processors designed for processor-intensive
    tasks in demanding multitasking environments.

Intel 3 Series Chipsets designed to be used with Intel Core
    microarchitecture-based processors, including 45nm products.
    These chipsets help improve system performance, energy
    efficiency, and video and sound quality.

A new generation of Intel Core 2 processors with vPro
    technology, which includes
    Intel   
    Trusted Execution Technology
    (Intel    TXT),
    designed to help protect business PCs and data within
    virtualized computing environments against hacking, viruses, and
    other threats. Intel Core 2 processors with vPro technology
    include the
    Intel   
    Q35 Chipset and feature Intel VT and Intel AMT.

Intel Core 2 Quad processors and Intel Core 2 Duo processors
    designed for mainstream desktop PCs and manufactured using our
    new 45nm Hi-k metal gate silicon technology (45nm process
    technology).

Enterprise
    Market Segment  

Our current server and workstation microprocessor offerings
    include the:

Quad-Core
    Intel   
    Xeon   
    processor

Dual-Core
    Intel   
    Xeon   
    processor

Dual-Core
    Intel   
    Itanium   
    processor

Our
    Intel   
    Xeon   
    processor family of products supports a range of entry-level to
    high-end technical and commercial computing applications, and is
    based on the Intel Core microarchitecture. Compared to our Intel
    Xeon processor family, our Intel Itanium processor family
    generally supports an even higher level of reliability and
    computing performance for data processing, the handling of high
    transaction volumes and other compute-intensive applications for
    enterprise-class servers, as well as supercomputing solutions.

We also offer platforms that are optimized for use in the
    enterprise market segment, which includes entry-level to
    high-end servers and workstations. Servers, which often have
    multiple microprocessors or cores working together, manage large
    amounts of data, direct data traffic, perform complex
    transactions, and control central functions in local and wide
    area networks and on the Internet. Workstations typically offer
    higher performance than standard desktop PCs, and are used for
    applications such as engineering design, digital content
    creation, and
     high-performance 
    computing.

Our new product offerings in 2007 and early 2008 include:

Quad-Core Intel Xeon processors designed for single-socket
    servers, dual-processor (DP) servers, and multi-processor (MP)
    servers. We also introduced low-voltage versions of the
    Quad-Core Intel Xeon processor designed for DP and MP servers.

An industry-standard, four-processor server platform based on
    our processors for MP servers. The platform includes a new
    chipset designed to enhance data traffic between the processors,
    memory, and I/O connections.

A new generation of Intel Itanium processors, including both
    dual- and single-core versions, designed for high-end
    applications. The new series includes extensive virtualization
    and other advanced features designed to improve reliability and
    reduce power consumption.

Quad-core and dual-core Intel Xeon processors manufactured using
    our new 45nm process technology. The new processors are designed
    to increase computer performance while lowering power
    consumption. We also introduced three platforms to support the
    new 45nm processors, including a platform designed for
    high-bandwidth, high-performance computing; a
     cost-optimized 
    platform designed to support either one or two processors and
    reduce power consumption by using DDR2 memory; and a platform
    designed for single-processor, entry-level servers.

Modular server building blocks based on
    Intel   
    Multi-Flex Technology, designed to enable system builders to
    easily integrate computing, networking, and storage capabilities
    into one system to meet the needs of a small- or mid-size
    business. The building blocks support up to six server compute
    nodes and 14 serial attached hard disk drives.

Communications
    Infrastructure Products  

In 2007, we introduced the Quad-Core Intel Xeon processor 5300
    series for the embedded computing segment. In addition, we
    announced the
    Intel   
    IP Network Server NSC2U, powered by two 5300 series processors.
    The server includes the
    Intel   
    5000P chipset and features a rugged chassis and compact form
    factor.

4

Table of Contents   

Networked
    Storage Products  

In 2007, we introduced the
    Intel   
    Storage Server SSR212MC2. Designed for small- and mid-size
    businesses, this storage server is powered by either the
    Quad-Core Intel Xeon processor 5300 series or the Dual-Core
    Intel Xeon processor 5100 series.

Mobility
    Group   

The Mobility Group s products include microprocessors and
    related chipsets designed for the notebook market segment,
    wireless connectivity products, and energy-efficient products
    designed for the ultra-mobile market segment. We also offer
    Intel   
    Centrino   
    processor technologies based on our microprocessors, chipsets,
    and wireless network connections.

Net revenue for the Mobility Group operating segment constituted
    38% of our consolidated net revenue in 2007 (35% in 2006 and 29%
    in 2005). Revenue from sales of microprocessors within the
    Mobility Group operating segment represented 28% of consolidated
    net revenue in 2007 (26% in 2006 and 22% in 2005).

Our current mobile microprocessor offerings include the:

Intel   
Core  tm  2
Extreme mobile processor

Intel   
Core  tm  2
Solo mobile processor

Intel   
Core  tm  2
Duo mobile processor

Intel   
    Celeron   
    M processor

Intel   
    Pentium   
    Dual-Core mobile processor

Intel   
    Celeron   
    processor

We offer mobile microprocessors at a variety of
    price/performance points: from the Intel Core 2 Extreme mobile
    processor designed for gaming to the Intel Celeron processor
    designed to provide value, quality, and reliability for basic
    computing needs. The related chipsets for our mobile
    microprocessor offerings primarily include the Mobile
    Intel   
    965 Express Chipset and the Mobile
    Intel   
    945 Express Chipset.

We offer our processors in various packaging options, giving our
    customers flexibility for a wide range of system designs for
    notebook PCs, tablet PCs, and other mobile computing devices. We
    also offer low-power microprocessors and chipsets designed for
    ultra-mobile devices, including products for ultra-mobile PCs
    and mobile Internet devices (MIDs).

In 2007, the majority of the revenue in the Mobility Group
    operating segment was from sales of our Intel Centrino processor
    technology and
    Intel   
    Centrino   
    with
    vPro  tm  
    technology products. Intel Centrino processor technologies are
    designed to provide high performance with improved multitasking,
    power-saving features to improve battery life, small form
    factor, wireless network connectivity, and improved boot times.
    Intel Centrino with vPro technology includes the features of
    Intel Centrino processor technology and is designed to provide
    mobile business PCs with increased security, manageability, and
    energy-efficient performance. These processor technologies
    enable users to take advantage of wireless capabilities at work,
    at home, and at thousands of wireless  hotspots 
    installed around the world.

Our new product offerings in 2007 and early 2008 include:

A new generation of Intel Centrino processor technology and
    Intel Centrino with vPro technology, based on the Intel Core 2
    Duo processor. Intel Centrino with vPro technology is designed
    specifically for business users and includes Intel AMT. Both of
    these processor technologies include the Mobile Intel 965
    Express Chipset and the option of
    Intel   
    Turbo Memory, a technology that can reduce the amount of time
    required for a system to turn on, boot up, or access software
    applications. Also included in these processor technologies is
    the
    Intel   
    Next-Gen Wireless-N Network Connection, which is based on the
    draft 802.11n WiFi specification. This network connection is
    designed to provide faster data transmission over a longer range
    than previous Intel WiFi products.

Intel Core 2 Extreme dual-core mobile processors, including a
    version manufactured using our new 45nm process technology.
    These processors are designed to bring advanced video, gaming,
    and computing performance to laptop systems.

The
    Intel   
    Ultra Mobile Platform 2007, which includes a low-power
    processor, a chipset, and a controller hub. This platform is
    designed for MIDs and ultra-mobile PCs.

Intel Core 2 Duo mobile processors manufactured using our new
    45nm process technology. These processors include new video and
    graphics capabilities, as well as a battery-saving Deep Power
    Down Technology, which reduces the power of the processor when
    it is not running data or instructions.

5

Table of Contents   

NAND
    Products Group   

We offer NAND flash memory products primarily used in digital
    audio players, memory cards, and system-level applications, such
    as
     solid-state 
    drives. These products are currently available in densities of
    up to 16 gigabits (Gb), and in stacked packaging in densities of
    up to 64 Gb. Additionally, we offer multi-level cell NAND flash
    memory products, which enable storage of multiple bits of data
    within a single cell. Our NAND flash memory products are
    manufactured by IM Flash Technologies, LLC (IMFT) using 50nm or
    72nm process technology. See  Note 19: Ventures 
    in Part II, Item 8 of this
     Form 10-K. 

Our new product offerings in 2007 and early 2008 include:

The
    Intel   
    Z-U130 Value Solid-State Drive, designed as an alternative to
    rotating magnetic disk drive technology for storage in computing
    systems and embedded applications. The product is based on NAND
    flash memory, has industry-standard USB interfaces, and is
    available in densities ranging from 1 GB to 8 GB.

The
    Intel   
    Z-P140 Solid-State Drive, designed for storage in MIDs and
    digital entertainment and embedded products. This ultra-small,
    low-power storage product is based on NAND flash memory, has an
    industry-standard parallel-ATA interface, and is available in
    densities of 2 GB and 4 GB (extendable up to 16 GB).

Flash
    Memory Group   

Currently, we offer NOR flash memory products. During the first
    quarter of 2008, we expect to complete the divestiture of our
    NOR flash memory assets to Numonyx. We expect to enter into
    supply and transition service agreements to provide products,
    services, and support to Numonyx following the close of the
    transaction.

Digital
    Home Group   

The Digital Home Group offers products for use in PCs and
    in-home consumer electronics devices designed to access and
    share Internet, broadcast, optical media, and personal content
    through a variety of linked digital devices within the home. In
    addition, we offer components for high-end enthusiast PCs,
    mainstream PCs with rich audio and video capabilities, and
    consumer electronics devices such as digital TVs,
     high-definition 
    media players, and set-top boxes.

We offer the
    Intel   
    Core  tm  2
    processor with
    Viiv  tm  
    technology, which is designed to make it easier for users to
    download, manage, and share the growing amount of digital
    programming available worldwide, and view that programming on a
    choice of TVs, PCs, or handheld products. Intel Core 2
    processors with Viiv technology include a microprocessor, a
    chipset, a network connectivity device, and enabling
    software all optimized to work together in the digital home
    environment. Certain desktop microprocessors offered by DEG may
    include
    Intel   
    Viiv  tm  
    technology.

Our current digital home microprocessor offerings also include
    the
    Intel   
    Core  tm  2
    Extreme dual-core processor and the
    Intel   
    Core  tm  2
    Extreme quad-core processor.

Our new product offerings in 2007 and early 2008 include:

Intel Core 2 Extreme quad-core processors designed for gamers,
    digital design professionals, and PC enthusiasts. Included is
    the first Intel Core 2 Extreme quad-core processor manufactured
    using our new 45nm process technology. This 45nm processor
    incorporates a larger cache than previous Intel Core 2 Extreme
    quad-core processors, and is designed to increase computing
    performance while using less power.

The
    Intel   
    CE 2110 Media Processor, which combines an Intel
    XScale   
    processor core, hardware video decoders, DDR memory interface,
    and 2D/3D graphics accelerators on a single chip. This
      system-on-a-chip  
    architecture is designed for consumer electronics devices such
    as digital set-top boxes and networked media players.

6

Table of Contents   

Manufacturing
    and Assembly and Test  

As of December 29, 2007, 73% of our wafer fabrication,
    including microprocessor, chipset, NOR flash memory,
    communications, and other silicon fabrication, was conducted
    within the U.S. at our facilities in Arizona, New Mexico,
    Oregon, Massachusetts, and California. The remaining 27% of our
    wafer fabrication was conducted outside the U.S. at our
    facilities in Ireland and Israel.

As of December 29, 2007, we primarily manufactured our
    products in wafer fabrication facilities at the following
    locations:

Products 

Wafer Size 

Process Technology 

Locations 

Microprocessors

300mm

45nm

Oregon, Arizona

Microprocessors and chipsets

300mm

65nm

Arizona, Ireland, Oregon

Chipsets and other products

300mm

90nm

New Mexico, Ireland

NOR flash memory

200mm

65nm 130nm

Israel, Ireland, California

Chipsets and other products

200mm

130nm and above

Oregon, Massachusetts, Arizona, Ireland

We expect to increase the capacity of certain facilities listed
    above through additional investments in capital equipment. In
    addition to our current facilities, we are building a facility
    in Israel that is expected to begin wafer fabrication for
    microprocessors on 300mm wafers using 45nm process technology in
    the second half of 2008. Also, we are building a 300mm wafer
    fabrication facility in China that is expected to begin
    production in 2010.

As of December 29, 2007, the majority of our
    microprocessors were manufactured on 300mm wafers using our 65nm
    process technology. In 2007, we started manufacturing
    microprocessors using our new 45nm process technology, which
    enables higher and more energy-efficient processor performance.
    The benefits of moving to each succeeding generation of
    manufacturing process technology can include using less space
    per transistor, reducing heat output from each transistor,
    and/or increasing the number of integrated features on each
    chip. These advancements can result in microprocessors that are
    higher performing, consume less power, and/or cost less to
    manufacture.

To augment capacity, we use third-party manufacturing companies
    (foundries) to manufacture wafers for certain components,
    including chipset, networking, and communications products. In
    addition, we primarily use subcontractors to manufacture
    board-level products and systems, and purchase certain
    communications networking products from external vendors,
    principally in the Asia-Pacific region.

Our NAND flash memory products are manufactured by IMFT, a NAND
    flash memory manufacturing company that we formed with Micron
    Technology, Inc. in 2006. We currently purchase 49% of the
    manufactured output of IMFT. See  Note 19:
    Ventures  in Part II, Item 8 of this
     Form 10-K. 

Following the manufacturing process, the majority of our
    components are subject to assembly and test. We perform our
    components assembly and test at facilities in Malaysia, China,
    the Philippines, and Costa Rica. We plan to continue investing
    in new assembly and test technologies as well as increasing the
    capacity of our existing facilities and building new facilities
    to keep pace with our microprocessor, chipset, and
    communications technology improvements. In line with these
    plans, we are building a new assembly and test facility in
    Vietnam, which is expected to begin production in 2009. This
    facility will have greater square footage than each of our
    current facilities, which will enable us to take advantage of
    greater economies of scale. To augment capacity, we use
    subcontractors to perform assembly of certain products,
    primarily flash memory, chipsets, and networking and
    communications products. Assembly and test of NAND flash memory
    products, manufactured by IMFT, is performed by Micron and other
    external subcontractors.

Our employment practices are consistent with, and we expect our
    suppliers and subcontractors to abide by, local country law. In
    addition, we impose a minimum employee age requirement as well
    as progressive environmental, health, and safety requirements
    regardless of local law.

We have thousands of suppliers, including subcontractors,
    providing our various materials and service needs. We set
    expectations for supplier performance and reinforce those
    expectations with periodic assessments. We communicate those
    expectations to our suppliers regularly and work with them to
    implement improvements when necessary. We seek, where possible,
    to have several sources of supply for all of these materials and
    resources, but we may rely on a single or limited number of
    suppliers, or upon suppliers in a single country. In those
    cases, we develop and implement plans and actions to reduce the
    exposure that would result from a disruption in supply. We have
    entered into long-term contracts with certain suppliers to
    ensure a portion of our silicon supply.

7

Table of Contents   

Our products typically are produced at multiple Intel facilities
    at various sites around the world, or by subcontractors who have
    multiple facilities. However, some products are produced in only
    one Intel or subcontractor facility, and we seek to implement
    actions and plans to reduce the exposure that would result from
    a disruption at any such facility. See  Risk Factors 
    in Part I, Item 1A of this
     Form 10-K. 

Research
    and Development  

We are committed to investing in world-class technology
    development, particularly in the area of the design and
    manufacture of integrated circuits. Research and development
    (R D) expenditures in 2007 were $5.8 billion
    ($5.9 billion in fiscal year 2006 and $5.1 billion in
    fiscal year 2005).

Our R D activities are directed toward developing the
    technology innovations that we believe will deliver our next
    generation of products and platforms, which will in turn enable
    new form factors and new usage models for businesses and
    consumers. Our R D activities range from design and
    development of products to developing and refining manufacturing
    processes, as well as researching future technologies and
    products.

We are focusing our R D efforts on advanced computing,
    communications, and wireless technologies as well as energy
    efficiency by developing new microarchitectures, advancing our
    silicon manufacturing process technology, delivering the next
    generation of microprocessors and chipsets, improving our
    platform initiatives, and developing software solutions and
    tools to support our technologies. Our R D efforts enable
    new levels of performance and address areas such as scalability
    for multi-core architectures, system manageability and security,
    energy efficiency, digital content protection, ease of use, and
    new communications capabilities. In the area of wireless
    communications, our initiatives focus on delivering the
    technologies that will enable improved wireless capabilities,
    including expanding and proliferating WiMAX technologies and
    products.

As part of our R D efforts, we plan to introduce a new
    microarchitecture for our mobile, desktop, and Intel Xeon
    processors approximately every two years and ramp the next
    generation of silicon process technology in the intervening
    years. We refer to this as our  tick-tock  technology
    development cadence. Our leadership in silicon technology has
    enabled us to make  Moore s Law  a reality.
    Moore s Law predicted that transistor density on integrated
    circuits would double about every two years. Our leadership in
    silicon technology has also helped to expand on the advances
    anticipated by Moore s Law by bringing new capabilities
    into silicon and producing new products and platforms optimized
    for a wider variety of applications. In 2007, we started
    manufacturing microprocessors on our new 45nm
     Hi-k  metal
    gate silicon technology, and we expect to introduce a new
    microarchitecture on 45nm process technology in 2008. We are
    currently developing 32nm process technology, our
    next-generation process technology, and expect to begin
    manufacturing products using that technology in 2009.

Our R D model is based on a global organization that
    emphasizes a collaborative approach in identifying and
    developing new technologies, leading standards initiatives, and
    influencing regulatory policy to accelerate the adoption of new
    technologies. Our R D initiatives are performed by various
    business groups within the company, and we centrally manage key
    cross-business group product initiatives to align and prioritize
    our R D activities across these groups. In addition, we may
    augment our R D initiatives by investing in companies or
    entering into agreements with companies that have similar
    R D focus areas. For example, we have an agreement with
    Micron for joint development of NAND flash memory technologies.

We also work with a worldwide network of academic, government,
    and industry researchers, scientists, and engineers in the
    computing and communications fields. Our network of technology
    professionals allows us, as well as others in our industry, to
    benefit from development initiatives in a variety of areas,
    eventually leading to innovative technologies for users. We
    believe that we are well positioned in the technology industry
    to help drive innovation, foster collaboration, and promote
    industry standards that will yield innovative and improved
    technologies for users.

Employees  

In September 2006, we announced a restructuring plan that has
    resulted in headcount reductions, primarily through workforce
    reductions, attrition, and targeted business divestitures. See
     Results of Operations  within  Management s
    Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of
    Operation  in Part II, Item 7 of this
     Form 10-K 
    for further details regarding our restructuring actions. As of
    December 29, 2007, we had approximately 86,300 employees
    worldwide, with more than 50% of these employees located in the
    U.S. Worldwide, we had approximately 94,100 employees as of
    December 30, 2006 and 99,900 as of December 31, 2005.

8

Table of Contents   

Sales and
    Marketing  

Customers   

We sell our products primarily to original equipment
    manufacturers (OEMs) and original design manufacturers (ODMs).
    ODMs provide design and/or manufacturing services to branded and
    unbranded private-label resellers. In addition, we sell our
    products to other manufacturers, including makers of a wide
    range of industrial and communications equipment. Our customers
    also include PC and network communications products users who
    buy PC components and our other products through distributor,
    reseller, retail, and OEM channels throughout the world. In
    certain instances, we have entered into supply agreements to
    continue to manufacture and sell products of divested business
    lines to acquiring companies during certain transition periods.

Our worldwide reseller sales channel consists of thousands of
    indirect customers who are systems builders that purchase Intel
    microprocessors and other products from our distributors. We
    have a  boxed processor program  that allows
    distributors to sell Intel microprocessors in small quantities
    to these systems-builder customers; boxed processors are also
    available in direct retail outlets.

In 2007, Dell Inc. accounted for 18% of our net revenue (19% in
    2006), and Hewlett-Packard Company accounted for 17% of our net
    revenue (16% in 2006). No other customer accounted for more than
    10% of our net revenue. For information about revenue and
    operating profit by operating segment, and revenue from
    unaffiliated customers by geographic region/country, see
     Management s Discussion and Analysis of Financial
    Condition and Results of Operation  in Part II,
    Item 7 and  Note 22: Operating Segment and
    Geographic Information  in Part II, Item 8 of
    this
     Form 10-K. 

Sales
    Arrangements   

Our products are sold or licensed through sales offices
    throughout the world. Sales of our products are typically made
    via purchase orders that contain standard terms and conditions
    covering matters such as pricing, payment terms, and warranties,
    as well as indemnities for issues specific to our products, such
    as patent and copyright indemnities. From time to time, we may
    enter into additional agreements with customers covering, for
    example, changes from our standard terms and conditions, new
    product development and marketing, private-label branding, and
    other matters. Most of our sales are made using electronic and
    web-based processes that allow the customer to review inventory
    availability and track the progress of specific goods ordered.
    Pricing on particular products may vary based on volumes ordered
    and other factors. We also offer discounts, rebates, and other
    incentives to customers to increase acceptance of our products
    and technology.

Our products are typically shipped under terms that transfer
    title to the customer, even in arrangements for which the
    recognition of revenue on the sale is deferred. Our standard
    terms and conditions of sale typically provide that payment is
    due at a later date, generally 30 days after shipment,
    delivery, or the customer s use of the product. Our credit
    department sets accounts receivable and shipping limits for
    individual customers to control credit risk to Intel arising
    from outstanding account balances. We assess credit risk through
    quantitative and qualitative analysis, and from this analysis,
    we establish credit limits and determine whether we will seek to
    use one or more credit support devices, such as obtaining some
    form of third-party guaranty or standby letter of credit, or
    obtaining credit insurance for all or a portion of the account
    balance if necessary. Credit losses may still be incurred due to
    bankruptcy, fraud, or other failure of the customer to pay. See
     Schedule II Valuation and Qualifying
    Accounts  in Part IV of this
     Form 10-K 
    for information about our allowance for doubtful receivables.

Distribution   

Typically, distributors handle a wide variety of products,
    including those that compete with our products, and fill orders
    for many customers. Most of our sales to distributors are made
    under agreements allowing for price protection on unsold
    merchandise and a right of return on stipulated quantities of
    unsold merchandise. We also utilize third-party sales
    representatives who generally do not offer directly competitive
    products but may carry complementary items manufactured by
    others. Sales representatives do not maintain a product
    inventory; instead, their customers place orders directly with
    us or through distributors.

Backlog   

We do not believe that backlog as of any particular date is
    meaningful, as our sales are made primarily pursuant to standard
    purchase orders for delivery of products. Only a small portion
    of our orders is non-cancelable, and the dollar amount
    associated with the non-cancelable portion is not significant.

9

Table of Contents   

Seasonal
    Trends   

Our microprocessor sales generally have followed a seasonal
    trend; however, there can be no assurance that this trend will
    continue. Historically, our sales of microprocessors have been
    higher in the second half of the year than in the first half of
    the year. Consumer purchases of PCs have been higher in the
    second half of the year, primarily due to back-to-school and
    holiday demand. In addition, purchases from businesses have
    tended to be higher in the second half of the year.

Marketing   

Our corporate marketing focus is on advanced multi-core
    microprocessors. Multi-core microprocessors are at the center of
    our most advanced processor technologies, which include Intel
    Centrino processor technologies, Intel Core 2 processors with
    vPro technology, and Intel Core 2 processors with Viiv
    technology. The Intel Core 2 Quad, Intel Core 2 Extreme, Intel
    Core 2 Duo, Itanium, Intel Xeon, Pentium, and Celeron trademarks
    make up our processor brands. We promote brand awareness and
    generate demand through our own direct marketing as well as
    co-marketing programs. Our direct marketing activities include
    television, print and web-based advertising, as well as press
    relations, consumer and trade events, and industry and consumer
    communications. We market to consumer and business audiences and
    focus on building awareness and generating demand for increased
    performance, power efficiency, and new capabilities.

Purchases by customers often allow them to participate in
    cooperative advertising and marketing programs such as the Intel
    Inside   
    program. This program broadens the reach of our brands beyond
    the scope of our own direct advertising. Through the Intel
    Inside program, certain customers are licensed to place Intel
    logos on computers containing our microprocessors and processor
    technologies, and to use our brands in marketing activities. The
    program includes a market development component that accrues
    funds based on purchases and partially reimburses the OEMs for
    marketing activities for products featuring Intel brands,
    subject to the OEMs meeting defined criteria. These marketing
    activities primarily include television, web-based marketing,
    and print, and in the beginning of 2008, we increased our focus
    on web-based marketing. We have also entered into joint
    marketing arrangements with certain customers.

Competition  

Our products compete primarily based on performance, features,
    price, quality, brand recognition, and availability. Our ability
    to compete depends on our ability to provide innovative products
    and worldwide support for our customers at competitive prices,
    including providing improved energy-efficient performance,
    enhanced security, manageability, and integrated solutions. In
    addition to our various computing, networking, and
    communications products, we offer platforms that incorporate
    various components designed and configured to work together to
    provide an optimized user computing solution compared to
    ingredients that are used separately.

The semiconductor industry is characterized by rapid advances in
    technology and new product introductions. As unit volumes of a
    particular product grow, production experience is accumulated
    and costs typically decrease, further competition develops, and
    as a result, prices decline. The life cycle of our products is
    very short, sometimes less than a year. Our ability to compete
    depends on our ability to improve our products and processes
    faster than our competitors, anticipate changing customer
    requirements, and develop and launch new products and platforms,
    while reducing our average
     per-unit 
    costs. See  Risk Factors  in Part I, Item 1A
    of this
     Form 10-K. 

Many companies compete with us in the various computing,
    networking, and communications market segments, and are engaged
    in the same basic business activities, including R D.
    Worldwide, these competitors range in size from large
    established multinational companies with multiple product lines
    to smaller companies and new entrants to the marketplace that
    compete in specialized market segments. Some of our competitors
    may have development agreements with other companies, and in
    some cases our competitors may also be our customers and/or
    suppliers. Product offerings may cross over into multiple
    product categories, offering us new opportunities but also
    resulting in more competition. It may be difficult for us to
    compete in market segments where our competitors have
    established products and brand recognition.

10

Table of Contents   

We believe that our network of manufacturing facilities and
    assembly and test facilities gives us a competitive advantage.
    This network enables us to have more direct control over our
    processes, quality control, product cost, volume, timing of
    production, and other factors. These facilities require
    significant up-front capital spending, and many of our
    competitors do not own such facilities because they may not be
    able to afford to do so or because their business models involve
    the use of third-party facilities for manufacturing and assembly
    and test. These  fabless semiconductor companies 
    include Broadcom Corporation, NVIDIA Corporation, QUALCOMM
    Incorporated, and VIA Technologies, Inc. (VIA). Some of our
    competitors own portions of such facilities through investment
    or joint-venture arrangements with other companies. A group of
    foundries and assembly and test subcontractors offer their
    services to companies that do not own facilities or to companies
    needing additional capacity. These foundries and subcontractors
    may also offer intellectual property, design services, and other
    goods and services to our competitors. Competitors who outsource
    their manufacturing and assembly and test operations can
    significantly reduce their capital expenditures.

We plan to continue to cultivate new businesses and work with
    the computing and communications industries through standards
    bodies, trade associations, OEMs, ODMs, and independent software
    and operating system vendors to help align the industry to offer
    products that take advantage of the latest market trends and
    usage models. We frequently participate in industry initiatives
    designed to discuss and agree upon technical specifications and
    other aspects of technologies that could be adopted as standards
    by standards-setting organizations. Our competitors may also
    participate in the same initiatives and specification
    development. Our participation does not ensure that any
    standards or specifications adopted by these organizations will
    be consistent with our product planning.

Microprocessors   

We continue to be largely dependent on the success of our
    microprocessor business. Our ability to compete depends on our
    ability to deliver new microprocessor products with improved
    overall performance and/or improved energy-efficient performance
    at competitive prices. Some of our microprocessor competitors,
    such as Advanced Micro Devices, Inc. (AMD), market
    software-compatible products that compete with our processors.
    We also face competition from companies offering rival
    architecture designs, such as Cell Broadband Engine Architecture
    developed jointly by International Business Machines Corporation
    (IBM), Sony Corporation, and Toshiba Corporation; Power
    Architecture* offered by IBM; ARM architecture (Advanced RISC
    Machine) developed by ARM Limited; and Scalable Processor
    Architecture (SPARC*) offered by Sun Microsystems, Inc.

The following is a list of our main microprocessor competitors
    by market segment:

Desktop:  AMD and VIA

Mobile:  AMD and VIA

Enterprise:  AMD, IBM, and Sun Microsystems

Embedded:  AMD, Freescale Semiconductor, Inc., and VIA

Chipsets   

Our chipsets compete in the various market segments against
    different types of chipsets that support either our
    microprocessor products or rival microprocessor products.
    Competing chipsets are produced by companies such as AMD
    (including chipsets marketed under the ATI Technologies, Inc.
    brand), NVIDIA, Silicon Integrated Systems Corporation (SIS),
    and VIA.

We also compete with companies offering graphics components and
    other special-purpose products used in the desktop, mobile, and
    enterprise market segments. One aspect of our business model is
    to incorporate improved performance and advanced properties into
    our microprocessors and chipsets, the demand for which may
    increasingly be affected by competition from companies, such as
    NVIDIA, whose business models are based on incorporating
    improved performance into dedicated chipsets and other
    components, such as graphics controllers.

Flash
    Memory   

Our NAND flash memory products currently compete with NOR and
    NAND products primarily manufactured by Hynix Semiconductor
    Inc., Samsung Electronics Co., Ltd., SanDisk Corporation,
    Spansion Inc., STMicroelectronics, and Toshiba.

Connectivity   

We offer products designed for wired and wireless connectivity;
    for the communications infrastructure, including network
    processors; and for networked storage. Our WiFi and WiMAX
    products currently compete with WiFi products manufactured by
    Atheros Communications, Inc. and Broadcom, and products
    manufactured by QUALCOMM.

11

Table of Contents   

Acquisitions
    and Strategic Investments  

During 2007, we completed one acquisition qualifying as a
    business combination. See  Note 12: Acquisitions 
    in Part II, Item 8 of this
     Form 10-K. 
    Also, we made two significant strategic investments that we
    discuss in Part II, Item 8 of this
     Form 10-K. 
    See  Note 19: Ventures  for information on our
    investment in IM Flash Singapore, LLP (IMFS), a venture formed
    with Micron to manufacture NAND flash memory products, and
     Note 7: Investments  for information on our
    investment in VMware, Inc.

During the first quarter of 2008, we expect to complete the
    divestiture of our NOR flash memory assets to Numonyx, and we
    expect to receive an ownership interest in the new company. See
     Note 13: Divestitures  in Part II,
    Item 8 of this
     Form 10-K. 

Intellectual
    Property and Licensing  

Intellectual property rights that apply to our various products
    and services include patents, copyrights, trade secrets,
    trademarks, and maskwork rights. We maintain a program to
    protect our investment in technology by attempting to ensure
    respect for our intellectual property rights. The extent of the
    legal protection given to different types of intellectual
    property rights varies under different countries  legal
    systems. We intend to license our intellectual property rights
    where we can obtain adequate consideration. See
     Competition  in Part I, Item 1 of this
     Form 10-K; 
     Legal Proceedings  in Part I, Item 3 of
    this
     Form 10-K; 
    and  Risk Factors  in Part I, Item 1A of
    this
     Form 10-K. 

We have filed and obtained a number of patents in the U.S. and
    other countries. While our patents are an important element of
    our success, our business as a whole is not significantly
    dependent on any one patent. We and other companies in the
    computing, telecommunications, and related high-technology
    fields typically apply for and receive, in the aggregate, tens
    of thousands of overlapping patents annually in the U.S. and
    other countries.

We believe that the duration of the applicable patents that we
    are granted is adequate relative to the expected lives of our
    products. Because of the fast pace of innovation and product
    development, our products are often obsolete before the patents
    related to them expire, and sometimes are obsolete before the
    patents related to them are even granted. As we expand our
    product offerings into new industries, we also seek to extend
    our patent development efforts to patent such product offerings.
    Established competitors in existing and new industries, as well
    as companies that purchase and enforce patents and other
    intellectual property, may already have patents covering similar
    products. There is no assurance that we will be able to obtain
    patents covering our own products, or that we will be able to
    obtain licenses from such companies on favorable terms or at all.

The majority of the software that we distribute, including
    software embedded in our component- and system-level products,
    is entitled to copyright protection.

To distinguish Intel products from our competitors 
    products, we have obtained certain trademarks and trade names
    for our products, and we maintain cooperative advertising
    programs with certain customers to promote our brands and to
    identify products containing genuine Intel components.

We also protect certain details about our processes, products,
    and strategies as trade secrets, keeping confidential the
    information that we believe provides us with a competitive
    advantage. We have ongoing programs designed to maintain the
    confidentiality of such information.

12

Table of Contents   

Compliance
    with Environmental, Health, and Safety Regulations  

We are committed to achieving high standards of environmental
    quality and product safety, and we strive to provide a safe and
    healthy workplace for our employees, contractors, and the
    communities in which we do business. We have environmental,
    health, and safety (EHS) policies and expectations that apply to
    our global operations. Each of our worldwide production
    facilities is in compliance with the International Organization
    for Standardization (ISO) 14001 environmental management system
    standard. Our internal EHS auditing program addresses not only
    compliance but also business risk and management systems. We
    focus on minimizing and properly managing the hazardous
    materials used in our facilities and products. We monitor
    regulatory and resource trends and set company-wide short- and
    long-term performance targets for key resources and emissions.
    These targets address several parameters, including energy and
    water use, climate change, waste recycling, and emissions. For
    example, we continue to take action to achieve our global
    greenhouse gas reduction goal by investing in energy
    conservation projects in our factories and working with
    suppliers of manufacturing tools to improve energy efficiency.
    We also focus on developing innovative solutions to improve the
    energy efficiency of our products and those of our customers. We
    take a holistic approach to power management, addressing the
    challenge at all levels, including the silicon, package,
    circuit,
     micro/macro 
    architecture, platform, and software levels.

The production of our products requires the use of hazardous
    materials that are subject to a broad array of EHS laws and
    regulations. We actively monitor the materials used in the
    production of our products. We have specific restrictions on the
    content of certain hazardous materials in our products, as well
    as those of our suppliers and outsourced manufacturers and
    subcontractors. We continue to make efforts to reduce hazardous
    materials in our products to position us to meet various
    environmental restrictions on product content throughout the
    world. For example, processors manufactured using our new 45nm
    Hi-k metal gate silicon technology are manufactured using a
    lead-free process. As we continue to advance process technology,
    the materials, technologies, and products themselves become
    increasingly complex. Our evaluations of materials for use in
    R D and production take into account EHS considerations.
    Compliance with these complex laws and regulations, as well as
    internal voluntary programs, is integrated into our  Design
    for EHS  programs.

We are committed to protecting the environment and human rights
    throughout our supply chain. We expect suppliers and
    subcontractors to understand and fully comply with all EHS and
    related laws and regulations and labor laws, including, at a
    minimum, those covering non-discrimination in the terms and
    conditions of employment, child labor, minimum wages, employee
    benefits, and work hours. In addition, we expect suppliers to
    abide by our policies, such as our Code of Conduct and the
    Electronic Industry Code of Conduct.

13

Table of Contents   

Executive
    Officers of the Registrant  

The following sets forth certain information with regard to our
    executive officers as of February 19, 2008 (ages are as of
    December 29, 2007):

14

Table of Contents   

ITEM 1A.  RISK
    FACTORS  

Fluctuations
    in demand for our products may harm our financial results and
    are difficult to forecast.   

If demand for our products fluctuates, our revenue and gross
    margin could be harmed. Important factors that could cause
    demand for our products to fluctuate include:

changes in business and economic conditions, including a
    downturn in the semiconductor industry and/or the overall
    economy;

changes in consumer confidence caused by changes in market
    conditions, including changes in the credit market;

competitive pressures, including pricing pressures, from
    companies that have competing products, chip architectures,
    manufacturing technologies, and marketing programs;

changes in customer product needs;

changes in the level of customers  components inventory;

strategic actions taken by our competitors; and

market acceptance of our products.

If product demand decreases, our manufacturing or assembly and
    test capacity could be underutilized, and we may be required to
    record an impairment on our long-lived assets including
    facilities and equipment, as well as intangible assets, which
    would increase our expenses. In addition, factory-planning
    decisions may shorten the useful lives of long-lived assets,
    including facilities and equipment, and cause us to accelerate
    depreciation. In the long term, if product demand increases, we
    may not be able to add manufacturing or assembly and test
    capacity fast enough to meet market demand. These changes in
    demand for our products, and changes in our customers 
    product needs, could have a variety of negative effects on our
    competitive position and our financial results, and, in certain
    cases, may reduce our revenue, increase our costs, lower our
    gross margin percentage, or require us to recognize impairments
    of our assets. In addition, if product demand decreases or we
    fail to forecast demand accurately, we could be required to
    write off inventory or record underutilization charges, which
    would have a negative impact on our gross margin.

The
    semiconductor industry and our operations are characterized by a
    high percentage of costs that are fixed or difficult to reduce
    in the short term, and by product demand that is highly variable
    and subject to significant downturns that may harm our business,
    results of operations, and financial condition.   

The semiconductor industry and our operations are characterized
    by high costs, such as those related to facility construction
    and equipment, R D, and employment and training of a highly
    skilled workforce, that are either fixed or difficult to reduce
    in the short term. At the same time, demand for our products is
    highly variable and there have been downturns, often in
    connection with maturing product cycles as well as downturns in
    general economic market conditions. These downturns have been
    characterized by reduced product demand, manufacturing
    overcapacity, high inventory levels, and lower average selling
    prices. The combination of these factors may cause our revenue,
    gross margin, cash flow, and profitability to vary significantly
    in both the short and long term.

We
    operate in intensely competitive industries, and our failure to
    respond quickly to technological developments and incorporate
    new features into our products could harm our ability to
    compete.   

We operate in intensely competitive industries that experience
    rapid technological developments, changes in industry standards,
    changes in customer requirements, and frequent new product
    introductions and improvements. If we are unable to respond
    quickly and successfully to these developments, we may lose our
    competitive position, and our products or technologies may
    become uncompetitive or obsolete. To compete successfully, we
    must maintain a successful R D effort, develop new products
    and production processes, and improve our existing products and
    processes at the same pace or ahead of our competitors. We may
    not be able to develop and market these new products
    successfully, the products we invest in and develop may not be
    well received by customers, and products developed and new
    technologies offered by others may affect demand for our
    products. These types of events could have a variety of negative
    effects on our competitive position and our financial results,
    such as reducing our revenue, increasing our costs, lowering our
    gross margin percentage, and requiring us to recognize
    impairments of our assets.

Fluctuations
    in the mix of products sold may harm our financial
    results.   

Because of the wide price differences among mobile, desktop, and
    server microprocessors, the mix and types of performance
    capabilities of microprocessors sold affect the average selling
    price of our products and have a substantial impact on our
    revenue and gross margin. Our financial results also depend in
    part on the mix of other products that we sell, such as
    chipsets, flash memory, and other semiconductor products. In
    addition, more recently introduced products tend to have higher
    associated costs because of initial overall development and
    production ramp. Fluctuations in the mix and types of our
    products may also affect the extent to which we are able to
    recover the fixed costs and investments associated with a
    particular product, and as a result can harm our financial
    results.

15

Table of Contents   

Our
    global operations subject us to risks that may harm our results
    of operations and financial condition.   

We have sales offices, R D, manufacturing, and assembly and
    test facilities in many countries, and as a result, we are
    subject to risks associated with doing business globally. Our
    global operations may be subject to risks that may limit our
    ability to manufacture, assemble and test, design, develop, or
    sell products in particular countries, which could, in turn,
    harm our results of operations and financial condition,
    including:

security concerns, such as armed conflict and civil or military
    unrest, crime, political instability, and terrorist activity;

health concerns;

natural disasters;

inefficient and limited infrastructure and disruptions, such as
    large-scale outages or interruptions of service from utilities
    or telecommunications providers and supply chain interruptions;

differing employment practices and labor issues;

local business and cultural factors that differ from our normal
    standards and practices;

regulatory requirements and prohibitions that differ between
    jurisdictions; and

restrictions on our operations by governments seeking to support
    local industries, nationalization of our operations, and
    restrictions on our ability to repatriate earnings.

In addition, although most of our products are priced and paid
    for in U.S. dollars, a significant amount of certain types of
    expenses, such as payroll, utilities, tax, and marketing
    expenses, are paid in local currencies. Our hedging programs
    reduce, but do not entirely eliminate, the impact of currency
    exchange rate movements, and therefore fluctuations in exchange
    rates could harm our business operating results and financial
    condition. In addition, changes in tariff and import regulations
    and to U.S. and
     non-U.S. 
    monetary policies may harm our operating results and financial
    condition by increasing our expenses and reducing our revenue.
    Varying tax rates in different jurisdictions could harm our
    operating results and financial condition by increasing our
    overall tax rate.

We also maintain a program of insurance coverage for various
    types of property, casualty, and other risks. We place our
    insurance coverage with various carriers in numerous
    jurisdictions. The types and amounts of insurance that we obtain
    vary from time to time and from location to location, depending
    on availability, cost, and our decisions with respect to risk
    retention. The policies are subject to deductibles and
    exclusions that result in our retention of a level of risk on a
    self-insurance basis. Losses not covered by insurance may be
    substantial and may increase our expenses, which could harm our
    results of operations.

Failure
    to meet our production targets, resulting in undersupply or
    oversupply of products, may harm our business and results of
    operations.   

Production of integrated circuits is a complex process.
    Disruptions in this process can result from interruptions in our
    processes, errors, and difficulties in our development and
    implementation of new processes; defects in materials;
    disruptions in our supply of materials or resources; and
    disruptions at our fabrication and assembly and test facilities
    due to, for example, accidents, maintenance issues, or unsafe
    working conditions all of which could affect the timing of
    production ramps and yields. We may not be successful or
    efficient in developing or implementing new production
    processes. The occurrence of any of the foregoing may result in
    our failure to meet or increase production as desired, resulting
    in higher costs or substantial decreases in yields, which could
    affect our ability to produce sufficient volume to meet specific
    product demand. The unavailability or reduced availability of
    certain products could make it more difficult to implement our
    platform strategy. We may also experience increases in yields. A
    substantial increase in yields could result in higher inventory
    levels and the possibility of resulting excess capacity charges
    as we slow production to reduce inventory levels. The occurrence
    of any of these events could harm our business and results of
    operations.

We may
    have difficulties obtaining the resources or products we need
    for manufacturing, assembling and testing our products, or
    operating other aspects of our business, which could harm our
    ability to meet demand for our products and may increase our
    costs.   

We have thousands of suppliers providing various materials that
    we use in the production of our products and other aspects of
    our business, and we seek, where possible, to have several
    sources of supply for all of those materials. However, we may
    rely on a single or a limited number of suppliers, or upon
    suppliers in a single country, for these materials. The
    inability of such suppliers to deliver adequate supplies of
    production materials or other supplies could disrupt our
    production processes or could make it more difficult for us to
    implement our business strategy. In addition, production could
    be disrupted by the unavailability of the resources used in
    production, such as water, silicon, electricity, and gases. The
    unavailability or reduced availability of the materials or
    resources that we use in our business may require us to reduce
    production of products or may require us to incur additional
    costs in order to obtain an adequate supply of those materials
    or resources. The occurrence of any of these events could harm
    our business and results of operations.

16

Table of Contents   

Costs
    related to product defects and errata may harm our results of
    operations and business.   

Costs associated with unexpected product defects and errata
    (deviations from published specifications) due to, for example,
    unanticipated problems in our manufacturing processes include,
    the costs of:

writing off the value of inventory of defective products;

disposing of defective products that cannot be fixed;

recalling defective products that have been shipped to customers;

providing product replacements for, or modifications to,
    defective products; and/or

defending against litigation related to defective products.

These costs could be substantial and may therefore increase our
    expenses and lower our gross margin. In addition, our reputation
    with our customers or users of our products could be damaged as
    a result of such product defects and errata, and the demand for
    our products could be reduced. These factors could harm our
    financial results and the prospects for our business.

We may
    be subject to claims of infringement of third-party intellectual
    property rights, which could harm our business.   

From time to time, third parties may assert against us or our
    customers alleged patent, copyright, trademark, or other
    intellectual property rights to technologies that are important
    to our business. We may be subject to intellectual property
    infringement claims from certain individuals and companies who
    have acquired patent portfolios for the sole purpose of
    asserting such claims against other companies. Any claims that
    our products or processes infringe the intellectual property
    rights of others, regardless of the merit or resolution of such
    claims, could cause us to incur significant costs in responding
    to, defending, and resolving such claims, and may divert the
    efforts and attention of our management and technical personnel
    away from our business. As a result of such intellectual
    property infringement claims, we could be required or otherwise
    decide it is appropriate to:

pay third-party infringement claims;

discontinue manufacturing, using, or selling particular products
    subject to infringement claims;

discontinue using the technology or processes subject to
    infringement claims;

develop other technology not subject to infringement claims,
    which could be time-consuming and costly or may not be possible;
    and/or

license technology from the third party claiming infringement,
    which license may not be available on commercially reasonable
    terms.

The occurrence of any of the foregoing could result in
    unexpected expenses or require us to recognize an impairment of
    our assets, which would reduce the value of our assets and
    increase expenses. In addition, if we alter or discontinue our
    production of affected items, our revenue could be negatively
    impacted.

We may
    be subject to litigation proceedings that could harm our
    business.   

In addition to the litigation risks mentioned above, we may be
    subject to legal claims or regulatory matters involving
    stockholder, consumer, antitrust, and other issues. As described
    in  Note 21: Contingencies  in Part II,
    Item 8 of this
     Form 10-K, 
    we are currently engaged in a number of litigation matters.
    Litigation is subject to inherent uncertainties, and unfavorable
    rulings could occur. An unfavorable ruling could include
    monetary damages or, in cases for which injunctive relief is
    sought, an injunction prohibiting us from manufacturing or
    selling one or more products. Were an unfavorable ruling to
    occur, our business and results of operations could be
    materially harmed.

We may
    not be able to enforce or protect our intellectual property
    rights, which may harm our ability to compete and harm our
    business.   

Our ability to enforce our patents, copyrights, software
    licenses, and other intellectual property rights is subject to
    general litigation risks, as well as uncertainty as to the
    enforceability of our intellectual property rights in various
    countries. When we seek to enforce our rights, we are often
    subject to claims that the intellectual property right is
    invalid, is otherwise not enforceable, or is licensed to the
    party against whom we are asserting a claim. In addition, our
    assertion of intellectual property rights often results in the
    other party seeking to assert alleged intellectual property
    rights of its own against us, which may harm our business. If we
    are not ultimately successful in defending ourselves against
    these claims in litigation, we may not be able to sell a
    particular product or family of products due to an injunction,
    or we may have to pay damages that could, in turn, harm our
    results of operations. In addition, governments may adopt
    regulations or courts may render decisions requiring compulsory
    licensing of intellectual property to others, or governments may
    require that products meet specified standards that serve to
    favor local companies. Our inability to enforce our intellectual
    property rights under these circumstances may harm our
    competitive position and our business.

17

Table of Contents   

Our
    licenses with other companies and our participation in industry
    initiatives may allow other companies, including our
    competitors, to use our patent rights.   

Companies in the semiconductor industry often rely on the
    ability to license patents from each other in order to compete.
    Many of our competitors have broad licenses or cross-licenses
    with us, and under current case law, some of these licenses may
    permit these competitors to pass our patent rights on to others.
    If one of these licensees becomes a foundry, our competitors
    might be able to avoid our patent rights in manufacturing
    competing products. In addition, our participation in industry
    initiatives may require us to license our patents to other
    companies that adopt certain industry standards or
    specifications, even when such organizations do not adopt
    standards or specifications proposed by us. As a result, our
    patents implicated by our participation in industry initiatives
    might not be available for us to enforce against others who
    might otherwise be deemed to be infringing those patents, our
    costs of enforcing our licenses or protecting our patents may
    increase, and the value of our intellectual property may be
    impaired.

Changes
    in our decisions with regard to our announced restructuring and
    efficiency efforts, and other factors, could affect our results
    of operations and financial condition.   

Factors that could cause actual results to differ materially
    from our expectations with regard to our announced restructuring
    include:

timing and execution of plans and programs that may be subject
    to local labor law requirements, including consultation with
    appropriate works councils;

changes in assumptions related to severance and postretirement
    costs;

future dispositions;

new business initiatives and changes in product roadmap,
    development, and manufacturing;

changes in employment levels and turnover rates;

changes in product demand and the business environment; and

changes in the fair value of certain long-lived assets.

In
    order to compete, we must attract, retain, and motivate key
    employees, and our failure to do so could harm our results of
    operations.   

In order to compete, we must attract, retain, and motivate
    executives and other key employees, including those in
    managerial, technical, sales, marketing, and support positions.
    Hiring and retaining qualified executives, scientists,
    engineers, technical staff, and sales representatives are
    critical to our business, and competition for experienced
    employees in the semiconductor industry can be intense. To help
    attract, retain, and motivate qualified employees, we use
    share-based incentive awards such as employee stock options and
    non-vested share units (restricted stock units). If the value of
    such stock awards does not appreciate as measured by the
    performance of the price of our common stock or if our
    share-based compensation otherwise ceases to be viewed as a
    valuable benefit, our ability to attract, retain, and motivate
    employees could be weakened, which could harm our results of
    operations.

Our
    results of operations could vary as a result of the methods,
    estimates, and judgments that we use in applying our accounting
    policies.   

The methods, estimates, and judgments that we use in applying
    our accounting policies have a significant impact on our results
    of operations (see  Critical Accounting Estimates  in
    Part II, Item 7 of this
     Form 10-K). 
    Such methods, estimates, and judgments are, by their nature,
    subject to substantial risks, uncertainties, and assumptions,
    and factors may arise over time that lead us to change our
    methods, estimates, and judgments. Changes in those methods,
    estimates, and judgments could significantly affect our results
    of operations.

Our
    failure to comply with applicable environmental laws and
    regulations worldwide could harm our business and results of
    operations.   

The manufacturing and assembling and testing of our products
    require the use of hazardous materials that are subject to a
    broad array of environmental, health, and safety laws and
    regulations. Our failure to comply with any of these applicable
    laws or regulations could result in:

regulatory penalties, fines, and legal liabilities;

suspension of production;

alteration of our fabrication and assembly and test processes;
    and

curtailment of our operations or sales.

In addition, our failure to manage the use, transportation,
    emission, discharge, storage, recycling, or disposal of
    hazardous materials could subject us to increased costs or
    future liabilities. Existing and future environmental laws and
    regulations could also require us to acquire pollution abatement
    or remediation equipment, modify our product designs, or incur
    other expenses associated with such laws and regulations. Many
    new materials that we are evaluating for use in our operations
    may be subject to regulation under existing or future
    environmental laws and regulations that may restrict our use of
    one or more of such materials in our manufacturing, assembly and
    test processes, or products. Any of these restrictions could
    harm our business and results of operations by increasing our
    expenses or requiring us to alter our manufacturing and assembly
    and test processes.

18

Table of Contents   

Changes
    in our effective tax rate may harm our results of
    operations.   

A number of factors may increase our future effective tax rates,
    including:

the jurisdictions in which profits are determined to be earned
    and taxed;

the resolution of issues arising from tax audits with various
    tax authorities;

changes in the valuation of our deferred tax assets and
    liabilities;

adjustments to estimated taxes upon finalization of various tax
    returns;

increases in expenses not deductible for tax purposes, including
    write-offs of acquired in-process R D and impairments of
    goodwill in connection with acquisitions;

changes in available tax credits;

changes in share-based compensation;

changes in tax laws or the interpretation of such tax laws, and
    changes in generally accepted accounting principles; and

the repatriation of
     non-U.S. 
    earnings for which we have not previously provided for U.S.
    taxes.

Any significant increase in our future effective tax rates could
    reduce net income for future periods.

We
    invest in companies for strategic reasons and may not realize a
    return on our investments.   

We make investments in companies around the world to further our
    strategic objectives and support our key business initiatives.
    Such investments include investments in equity securities of
    public companies and non-marketable equity investments in
    private companies, which range from early-stage companies that
    are often still defining their strategic direction to more
    mature companies with established revenue streams and business
    models. The success of these companies is dependent on product
    development, market acceptance, operational efficiency, and
    other key business factors. The private companies in which we
    invest may fail because they may not be able to secure
    additional funding, obtain favorable investment terms for future
    financings, or take advantage of liquidity events such as
    initial public offerings, mergers, and private sales. If any of
    these private companies fail, we could lose all or part of our
    investment in that company. If we determine that an
    other-than-temporary decline in the fair value exists for an
    equity investment in a public or private company in which we
    have invested, we write down the investment to its fair value
    and recognize the related write-down as an investment loss.
    Furthermore, when the strategic objectives of an investment have
    been achieved, or if the investment or business diverges from
    our strategic objectives, we may decide to dispose of the
    investment. Our non-marketable equity investments in private
    companies are not liquid, and we may not be able to dispose of
    these investments on favorable terms or at all. The occurrence
    of any of these events could harm our results of operations.
    Additionally, for cases in which we are required under equity
    method accounting to recognize a proportionate share of another
    company s income or loss, such income and loss may impact
    our earnings.

Interest
    and other, net could vary from expectations, which could harm
    our results of operations.   

Factors that could cause interest and other, net in our
    consolidated statements of income to fluctuate include:

fixed-income and credit market volatility;

fluctuations in interest rates;

changes in our cash and investment balances;

fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates;

other-than-temporary impairments in the fair value of
    fixed-income instruments;

changes in our hedge accounting treatment; and

gains or losses from divestitures.

Our
    acquisitions, divestitures, and other transactions could disrupt
    our ongoing business and harm our results of
    operations.   

In pursuing our business strategy, we routinely conduct
    discussions, evaluate opportunities, and enter into agreements
    regarding possible investments, acquisitions, divestitures, and
    other transactions, such as joint ventures. Acquisitions and
    other transactions involve significant challenges and risks,
    including risks that:

we may not be able to identify suitable opportunities at terms
    acceptable to us;

the transaction may not advance our business strategy;

we may not realize a satisfactory return on the investment we
    make;

we may not be able to retain key personnel of the acquired
    business; or

we may experience difficulty in integrating new employees,
    business systems, and technology.

When we decide to sell assets or a business, we may encounter
    difficulty in finding or completing divestiture opportunities or
    alternative exit strategies on acceptable terms in a timely
    manner, and the agreed terms and financing arrangements could be
    renegotiated due to changes in business or market conditions.
    These circumstances could delay the accomplishment of our
    strategic objectives or cause us to incur additional expenses
    with respect to businesses that we want to dispose of, or we may
    dispose of a business at a price or on terms that are less than
    we had anticipated, resulting in a loss on the transaction.

19

Table of Contents   

If we do enter into agreements with respect to acquisitions,
    divestitures, or other transactions, we may fail to complete
    them due to:

failure to obtain required regulatory or other approvals;

intellectual property or other litigation;

difficulties that we or other parties may encounter in obtaining
    financing for the transaction; or other factors.

Further, acquisition, divestiture, and other transactions
    require substantial management resources and have the potential
    to divert our attention from our existing business. These
    factors could harm our business and results of operations.

The
    proposed Numonyx transaction may be delayed or not
    consummated.   

In May 2007, we announced that we entered into an agreement to
    form a private, independent semiconductor company with
    STMicroelectronics N.V. and Francisco Partners L.P., later named
    Numonyx (see  Note 13: Divestitures  in
    Part II, Item 8 of this
     Form 10-K). 
    If the transaction is delayed or not consummated, we may record
    additional charges.

ITEM 1B.  UNRESOLVED
    STAFF COMMENTS  

Not applicable.

ITEM 2.  PROPERTIES  

At December 29, 2007, our major facilities consisted of:

1   

Leases on portions of the land used for these facilities
    expire at varying dates through 2062.  

2   

Leases expire at varying dates through 2021 and generally
    include renewals at our option.  

Our principal executive offices are located in the U.S. The
    majority of our wafer fabrication and R D activities are
    also located in the U.S. Outside the U.S., we have wafer
    fabrication at our facilities in Ireland and Israel. We are
    building a new wafer fabrication facility in Israel, which is
    expected to begin production in the second half of 2008. In
    addition, we are building a new wafer fabrication facility in
    China that is expected to begin production in 2010. Our assembly
    and test facilities are located overseas, specifically in
    Malaysia, China, the Philippines, and Costa Rica. We are
    building a new assembly and test facility in Vietnam, which is
    expected to begin production in 2009. This facility will have
    more square footage than each of our current assembly and test
    facilities, which will enable us to take advantage of greater
    economies of scale. In addition, we have sales and marketing
    offices located worldwide. These facilities are generally
    located near major concentrations of users.

With the exception of certain facilities that we have placed for
    sale (see  Note 16: Restructuring and Asset Impairment
    Charges  in Part II, Item 8 of this
     Form 10-K), 
    we believe that our existing facilities are suitable and
    adequate for our present purposes and that the productive
    capacity in such facilities is substantially being utilized or
    we have plans to utilize it.

We do not identify or allocate assets by operating segment. For
    information on net property, plant and equipment by country, see
     Note 22: Operating Segment and Geographic
    Information  in Part II, Item 8 of this
     Form 10-K. 

ITEM 3.  LEGAL
    PROCEEDINGS  

For a discussion of legal proceedings, see  Note 21:
    Contingencies  in Part II, Item 8 of this
     Form 10-K. 

ITEM 4.  SUBMISSION
    OF MATTERS TO A VOTE OF SECURITY HOLDERS  

None.

20

Table of Contents   

PART II  

ITEM 5.   

MARKET
    FOR REGISTRANT S COMMON EQUITY, RELATED STOCKHOLDER MATTERS
    AND ISSUER PURCHASES OF EQUITY SECURITIES  

Information regarding the market price range of Intel common
    stock and dividend information may be found in  Financial
    Information by Quarter (Unaudited)  in Part II,
    Item 8 of this
     Form 10-K. 

In each quarter during 2007, we paid a cash dividend of $0.1125
    per common share, for a total of $0.45 for the year ($0.10 each
    quarter during 2006 for a total of $0.40 for the year). We have
    paid a cash dividend in each of the past 61 quarters. In January
    2008, our Board of Directors declared a cash dividend of $0.1275
    per common share for the first quarter of 2008. The dividend is
    payable on March 1, 2008 to stockholders of record on
    February 7, 2008.

As of February 8, 2008, there were approximately 185,000
    registered holders of record of Intel s common stock. A
    substantially greater number of holders of Intel common stock
    are  street name  or beneficial holders, whose shares
    are held of record by banks, brokers, and other financial
    institutions.

Issuer
    Purchases of Equity Securities  

We have an ongoing authorization, amended in November 2005, from
    our Board of Directors to repurchase up to $25 billion in
    shares of our common stock in open market or negotiated
    transactions. As of December 29, 2007, $14.5 billion
    remained available for repurchase under the existing repurchase
    authorization. A portion of our purchases in the fourth quarter
    of 2007 were executed under a privately negotiated forward
    purchase agreement.

Common stock repurchases under our authorized plan in each
    quarter of 2007 were as follows (in millions, except per share
    amounts):

Common stock repurchases under our authorized plan during the
    fourth quarter of 2007 were as follows (in millions, except per
    share amounts):

21

Table of Contents   

For the majority of restricted stock units granted, the number
    of shares issued on the date the restricted stock units vest is
    net of the statutory withholding requirements that we pay on
    behalf of our employees. These withheld shares are not included
    within the common stock repurchase totals in the tables above.
    See  Note 5: Common Stock Repurchases  in
    Part II, Item 8 of this
     Form 10-K 
    for further discussion.

Stock
    Performance Graph  

The line graph below compares the cumulative total stockholder
    return on our common stock with the cumulative total return of
    the Dow Jones Technology Index and the Standard  
    Poor s (S P) 500 Index for the five fiscal years ended
    December 29, 2007. The graph and table assume that $100 was
    invested on December 27, 2002 (the last day of trading for
    the fiscal year ended December 28, 2002) in each of
    our common stock, the Dow Jones Technology Index, and the
    S P 500 Index, and that all dividends were reinvested. Dow
    Jones and Company, Inc. and Standard   Poor s
    Compustat Services, Inc. furnished the data. Cumulative total
    stockholder returns for our common stock, the Dow Jones
    Technology Index, and the S P 500 Index are based on our
    fiscal year.

Comparison
    of Five-Year Cumulative Return for Intel, the Dow Jones
    Technology Index, and the S P 500 Index   

22

Table of Contents   

ITEM 6. SELECTED
    FINANCIAL DATA  

1   

We began recognizing the provisions of
    SFAS No. 123(R) beginning in fiscal year 2006. See
     Note 2: Accounting Policies  and
     Note 3: Employee Equity Incentive Plans  in
    Part II, Item 8 of this
     Form 10-K.   

The ratio of earnings to fixed charges for each of the five
    years in the period ended December 29, 2007 was as follows:

Fixed charges consist of interest expense, the estimated
    interest component of rent expense, and capitalized interest.

23

Table of Contents   

ITEM 7.   

MANAGEMENT S
    DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF
    OPERATION  

Our Management s Discussion and Analysis of Financial
    Condition and Results of Operation (MD A) is provided in
    addition to the accompanying consolidated financial statements
    and notes to assist readers in understanding our results of
    operations, financial condition, and cash flows. MD A is
    organized as follows:

Overview.  Discussion of our business and overall
    analysis of financial and other highlights affecting the company
    in order to provide context for the remainder of MD A.

Strategy.  Overall strategy and the strategy for our
    operating segments.

Critical Accounting Estimates.  Accounting estimates
    that we believe are important to understanding the assumptions
    and judgments incorporated in our reported financial results and
    forecasts.

Results of Operations.  An analysis of our financial
    results comparing 2007 to 2006 and comparing 2006 to 2005.

Liquidity and Capital Resources.  An analysis of
    changes in our balance sheets and cash flows, and discussion of
    our financial condition.

Business Outlook.  Our forecasts for selected data
    points for the 2008 fiscal year.

The various sections of this MD A contain a number of
    forward-looking statements. Words such as  expects, 
     goals,   plans,   believes, 
     continues,   may,  and variations of such
    words and similar expressions are intended to identify such
    forward-looking statements. In addition, any statements that
    refer to projections of our future financial performance, our
    anticipated growth and trends in our businesses, and other
    characterizations of future events or circumstances are
    forward-looking statements. Such statements are based on our
    current expectations and could be affected by the uncertainties
    and risk factors described throughout this filing and
    particularly in the  Business Outlook  section (see
    also  Risk Factors  in Part I, Item 1A of
    this
     Form 10-K). 
    Our actual results may differ materially, and these
     forward-looking 
    statements do not reflect the potential impact of any
    divestitures, mergers, acquisitions, or other business
    combinations that had not been completed as of February 15,
    2008, with the exception of the Numonyx transaction. Our
    forward-looking statements for 2008 reflect the expectation that
    the Numonyx transaction will close during the first quarter.

Overview  

We make, market, and sell advanced integrated digital technology
    products, primarily integrated circuits, for industries such as
    computing and communications. Integrated circuits are
    semiconductor chips etched with interconnected electronic
    switches. Our goal is to be the preeminent provider of
    semiconductor chips and platforms for the worldwide digital
    economy. Our products include chips, boards, and other
    semiconductor products that are the building blocks integral to
    computers, servers, consumer electronics and handheld devices,
    and networking and communications products. Our primary
    component-level products include microprocessors, chipsets, and
    flash memory. We offer products at various levels of
    integration, allowing our customers the flexibility to create
    advanced computing and communications systems and products.

The life cycle of our products is very short, sometimes less
    than a year. Our ability to compete depends on our ability to
    improve our products and processes faster than our competitors,
    anticipate changing customer requirements, and develop and
    launch new products and platforms. Our failure to respond
    quickly to technological developments and incorporate new
    features into our products could harm our ability to compete.
    Maintaining scale is key to our strategy of ramping new
    manufacturing technologies and platforms quickly, delivering
     high-performance 
    products, and lowering unit costs.

As of December 29, 2007, our operating segments included
    the Digital Enterprise Group, Mobility Group, NAND Products
    Group, Flash Memory Group, Digital Home Group, Digital Health
    Group, and Software Solutions Group.

Net revenue, gross margin, and operating income for 2007 and
    2006 were as follows:

24

Table of Contents   

MANAGEMENT S
    DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF
    OPERATION (Continued)  

Overall microprocessor revenue continues to grow, and we
    continue to see a shift in our sales mix from desktop
    microprocessors to mobile microprocessors. Microprocessor
    revenue within the Mobility Group operating segment increased by
    16% in 2007 compared to 2006. The growth in mobile
    microprocessors has outpaced the growth in desktop
    microprocessors, and we believe this trend will continue, with a
    crossover occurring as early as 2009. As demand for mobile
    microprocessors continues to grow in the PC market segment,
    system price points have expanded to include new lower prices.
    We expect continuing erosion in average selling prices for
    mobile microprocessors due to this expansion in lower price
    points and a continued competitive market segment. However,
    mobile microprocessor average selling prices remain higher than
    desktop microprocessor average selling prices, and therefore the
    shift in our mix to mobile microprocessors has a positive effect
    on our results. Due to the price differences among mobile,
    desktop, and server microprocessors, the mix and types of
    performance capabilities of microprocessors sold affect the
    average selling price of our products and have a substantial
    impact on our revenue.

The gross margin percentage was relatively flat in 2007 compared
    to 2006. During 2007, gross margin benefited from lower
    microprocessor unit costs as well as a mix shift toward higher
    margin businesses. The decline in unit costs has been possible
    as we continued to gain production experience on our 65nm
    process technology. In addition, we are running our factories at
    high volumes. However, during 2007 our gross margin was
    negatively impacted by declining average selling prices as well
    as higher
     start-up 
    costs related to our 45nm process technology.

Our operating income grew faster than revenue during 2007 as we
    continued to implement our restructuring program and focused on
    our commitment to efficiency and on spending controls. As a
    result, R D and marketing, general and administrative
    expenses as a percentage of revenue decreased from 34% in 2006
    to 29% in 2007, and the number of employees decreased by 8%
    compared to the end of 2006. Results for 2007 included
    restructuring and asset impairment charges of $516 million,
    and to date we have incurred $1.1 billion in charges
    related to the program, which began in the third quarter of
    2006. We expect to continue the program in 2008, and expect
    charges to decline in the second half of the year. As part of
    the restructuring program, we divested some of our lower margin
    businesses, and we expect to divest our NOR flash memory assets
    in the first quarter of 2008. As a result of these divestitures,
    we expect a negative impact on revenue and a benefit to our
    gross margin percentage in 2008. Our efficiency efforts have
    also contributed to faster factory throughput, higher yields,
    and improved equipment utilization. Improvements in our
    equipment utilization helped enable us to reduce our capital
    spending from $5.9 billion in 2006 to $5.0 billion in
    2007.

The combination of our technological innovation and our renewed
    commitment to customer orientation has differentiated our
    products and technology from our competition and has contributed
    to our revenue growth, which occurred in nearly all product
    lines and across all geographies. We are setting the pace for
    innovation within the industry by executing on our plan to
    introduce a new microarchitecture approximately every two years
    and to ramp the next generation of silicon process technology in
    the intervening years. In 2007, we completed our transition to
    the Intel Core microarchitecture, initially launched in 2006, in
    all market segments. We also started manufacturing
    microprocessors using our industry-leading 45nm Hi-k metal gate
    silicon technology, which enables higher and more
     energy-efficient 
    processor performance. Our next-generation microarchitecture is
    scheduled for production in the second half of 2008; and we are
    also developing our next-generation 32nm process technology and
    expect to begin manufacturing products using that technology in
    2009.

From a financial condition perspective, we ended 2007 with an
    investment portfolio valued at $19.3 billion, consisting of
    cash and cash equivalents, fixed-income debt instruments
    included in trading assets, and short- and long-term
    investments. During 2007, we repurchased $2.75 billion of
    stock through our stock repurchase program and paid
    $2.6 billion to stockholders as dividends.

We exited 2007 with what we believe is the strongest combination
    of products, manufacturing, and silicon technology leadership in
    our history as we continue to ramp our 45nm process technology
    and plan to introduce our next-generation microarchitecture in
    2008. Also in 2008, we plan to introduce products geared to
    future growth markets. Specifically, we plan to introduce new
    microprocessors,
     code-named 
     Silverthorne,  that are designed for notebooks,
    low-power and low-cost products, MIDs, and consumer electronics
    devices. In addition to our microprocessor and chipset
    development, we expect to make significant investments in
    R D in 2008 in growth areas such as
     system-on-a-chip, 
    MIDs, embedded applications, consumer electronics, and graphics.
    Although there is uncertainty in the global economy, we are
    planning for another year of growth in which profits grow faster
    than revenue and our investments in products, manufacturing, and
    silicon technology continue to generate competitive advantages.

25

Table of Contents   

MANAGEMENT S
    DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF
    OPERATION (Continued)  

Strategy  

Our goal is to be the preeminent provider of semiconductor chips
    and platforms for the worldwide digital economy. As part of our
    overall strategy to compete in each relevant market segment, we
    use our core competencies in the design and manufacture of
    integrated circuits, as well as our financial resources, global
    presence, and brand recognition. We believe that we have the
    scale, capacity, and global reach to establish new technologies
    and respond to customers  needs quickly.

Some of our key focus areas are listed below:

Customer Orientation.  Our strategy focuses on
    developing our next generation of products based on the needs
    and expectations of our customers. In turn, our products help
    enable the design and development of new form factors and usage
    models for businesses and consumers. We offer platforms with
    ingredients designed and configured to work together to provide
    an optimized user computing solution compared to ingredients
    that are used separately.

Energy-Efficient Performance.  We believe that users
    of computing and communications systems and devices want
    improved overall and energy-efficient performance. Improved
    overall performance can include faster processing performance
    and other capabilities such as multithreading and multitasking.
    Performance can also be improved through enhanced connectivity,
    security, manageability, reliability, ease of use, and
    interoperability among devices. Improved energy-efficient
    performance involves balancing the addition of these and other
    types of improved performance factors with lower power
    consumption. Our microprocessors have one, two, or four
    processor cores, and we continue to develop processors with an
    increasing number of cores, which enable improved multitasking
    and energy efficiency.

Design and Manufacturing Technology Leadership.  Our
    strategy for developing microprocessors with improved
    performance is to synchronize the introduction of a new
    microarchitecture with improvements in silicon process
    technology. We plan to introduce a new microarchitecture
    approximately every two years and ramp the next generation of
    silicon process technology in the intervening years. This
    coordinated schedule allows us to develop and introduce new
    products based on a common microarchitecture quickly, without
    waiting for the next generation of silicon process technology.
    We refer to this as our  tick-tock  technology
    development cadence. For more information, see  Research
    and Development  in Part I, Item 1 of this Form
     10-K. 

Strategic Investments.  We make equity investments in
    companies around the world to further our strategic objectives
    and to support our key business initiatives, including
    investments through our Intel Capital program. We generally
    focus on investing in companies and initiatives to stimulate
    growth in the digital economy, create new business opportunities
    for Intel, and expand global markets for our products. Our
    current investment focus areas include those that we believe
    help to enable mobile wireless devices, advance the digital
    home, enhance the digital enterprise, advance high-performance
    communications infrastructures, and develop the next generation
    of silicon process technologies. Our focus areas tend to develop
    and change over time due to rapid advancements in technology.

Business Environment and Software.  We plan to
    continue to cultivate new businesses and work to encourage the
    industry to offer products that take advantage of the latest
    market trends and usage models. We also provide development
    tools and support to help software developers create software
    applications and operating systems that take advantage of our
    platforms. We frequently participate in industry initiatives
    designed to discuss and agree upon technical specifications and
    other aspects of technologies that could be adopted as standards
    by standards-setting organizations. In addition, we work
    collaboratively with other companies to protect digital content
    and the consumer. Lastly, through our Software and Solutions
    Group, we help enable and advance the computing ecosystem by
    developing value-added software products and services.

We believe that the proliferation of the Internet, including
    user demand for premium content and rich media, is the primary
    driver of the need for greater performance in PCs and servers. A
    growing number of older PCs are increasingly incapable of
    handling the tasks that users are demanding, such as streaming
    video, uploading photos, and online gaming. As these tasks
    become even more demanding and require more computing power, we
    believe that users will need and want to buy new PCs to perform
    everyday tasks on the Internet. We also believe that increased
    Internet traffic is creating a need for greater server
    infrastructure, including server products optimized for
    energy-efficient performance.

We have experienced an overall shift in sales mix from desktop
    microprocessors to mobile microprocessors. We believe that,
    based on customer demand and market trends, mobile
    microprocessor shipments will exceed desktop microprocessor
    shipments as early as 2009. Mobile microprocessors generally
    have higher average selling prices compared to desktop
    microprocessors, so the continued shift in sales mix to mobile
    microprocessors is expected to positively impact our revenue.
    Therefore, our strategy focuses on advancing mobile
    microprocessors to accelerate this shift in sales mix.

26

Table of Contents   

MANAGEMENT S
    DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF
    OPERATION (Continued)  

We are investing in areas in which we believe the application of
    highly integrated
    Intel   
    architecture provides growth opportunities, such as scalable,
    high-performance visual computing solutions that integrate vivid
    graphics and supercomputing performance for scientific,
    financial services, and other compute-intensive applications. In
    addition, our design and manufacturing technology leadership,
    including the recent introduction of our new 45nm process
    technology, allows us to develop low-cost, low-power
    microprocessors for new uses and form factors. We believe that
    these new microprocessors will give us the ability to extend
    Intel architecture and drive growth in new market segments,
    including MIDs, a new category of small, mobile consumer devices
    enabling a PC-like Internet experience; consumer electronics
    devices, which will deliver media and services to set-top boxes
    and TVs over broadband Internet connections; and ultra-low-cost
    PCs designed for emerging markets. We believe that the common
    elements for products in these new market segments are low
    power, low cost, and the ability to access the Internet.

Strategy
    by Operating Segment   

Our   Digital Enterprise Group   (DEG) offers
    computing and communications products for businesses, service
    providers, and consumers. DEG products are incorporated into
    desktop computers, enterprise computer servers, workstations,
    and products that make up the infrastructure for the Internet.
    We also offer products for embedded designs, such as industrial
    equipment, point-of-sale systems, panel PCs, automotive
    information/entertainment systems, and medical equipment. Within
    DEG, our largest market segments are in desktop and enterprise
    computing. Our strategy for the desktop computing market segment
    is to offer products that provide increased manageability,
    security, and energy-efficient performance while at the same
    time lowering total cost of ownership for businesses. Our
    strategy for the enterprise computing market segment is to offer
    products that provide energy-efficient performance, ease of use,
    manageability, reliability, and security for entry-level to
    high-end servers and workstations.

The strategy for our   Mobility Group   is to offer
    notebook PC products designed to improve performance, battery
    life, and wireless connectivity, as well as to allow for the
    design of smaller, lighter, and thinner form factors. We are
    also increasing our focus on notebooks designed for the business
    environment by offering products that provide increased
    manageability and security, and we continue to invest in the
    build-out of WiMAX. For the ultra-mobile market segment, we
    offer energy-efficient products that are designed primarily for
    mobile processing of digital content and Internet access, and we
    are developing new products to support this evolving market
    segment, including products for MIDs and ultra-mobile PCs.

The strategy for our   NAND Products Group   is to
    offer advanced NAND flash memory products, primarily used in
    digital audio players, memory cards, and system-level
    applications, such as solid-state drives. In support of our
    strategy to provide advanced flash memory products, we continue
    to focus on the development of innovative products designed to
    address the needs of customers for reliable,
     non-volatile, 
    low-cost, high-density memory.

For the   Flash Memory Group  , we expect to complete
    the divestiture of our NOR flash memory assets to Numonyx during
    the first quarter of 2008. We expect to enter into supply and
    transition service agreements to provide products, services, and
    support to Numonyx following the close of the transaction. See
     Note 13: Divestitures  in Part II,
    Item 8 of this
     Form 10-K. 

The strategy for our   Digital Home Group   is to
    offer products for use in PCs and in-home consumer electronics
    devices designed to access and share Internet, broadcast,
    optical media, and personal content through a variety of linked
    digital devices within the home. We are focusing on the design
    of components for high-end enthusiast PCs, mainstream PCs with
    rich audio and video capabilities, and consumer electronic
    devices such as digital TVs, high-definition media players, and
    set-top boxes.

The strategy for our   Digital Health Group   is to
    design and deliver technology-enabled products and explore
    global business opportunities in healthcare information
    technology, healthcare research, and productivity, as well as
    personal healthcare. In support of this strategy, we are
    focusing on the design of technology solutions and platforms for
    the digital hospital and consumer/home health products.

The strategy for our   Software and Solutions Group
      (SSG) is to promote Intel architecture as the platform
    of choice for software and services. SSG works with the
    worldwide software and services ecosystem by providing software
    products, engaging with developers, and driving strategic
    software investments.

27

Table of Contents   

MANAGEMENT S
    DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF
    OPERATION (Continued)  

Critical
    Accounting Estimates  

The methods, estimates, and judgments that we use in applying
    our accounting policies have a significant impact on the results
    that we report in our financial statements. Some of our
    accounting policies require us to make difficult and subjective
    judgments, often as a result of the need to make estimates
    regarding matters that are inherently uncertain. Our most
    critical accounting estimates include:

the valuation of non-marketable equity investments, which
    impacts net gains (losses) on equity investments when we record
    impairments;

the assessment of recoverability of long-lived assets, which
    primarily impacts gross margin or operating expenses when we
    record asset impairments or accelerate their depreciation;

the recognition and measurement of current and deferred income
    tax assets and liabilities (including the measurement of
    uncertain tax positions), which impact our tax provision;

the valuation of inventory, which impacts gross margin; and

the valuation and recognition of share-based compensation, which
    impact gross margin; R D expenses; and marketing, general
    and administrative expenses.

Below, we discuss these policies further, as well as the
    estimates and judgments involved. We also have other policies
    that we consider key accounting policies, such as those for
    revenue recognition, including the deferral of revenue on sales
    to distributors; however, these policies typically do not
    require us to make estimates or judgments that are difficult or
    subjective.

Non-Marketable
    Equity Investments   

We regularly invest in non-marketable equity investments of
    private companies, which range from early-stage companies that
    are often still defining their strategic direction to more
    mature companies with established revenue streams and business
    models. The carrying value of our non-marketable equity
    investment portfolio, excluding equity derivatives, totaled
    $3.4 billion at December 29, 2007 ($2.8 billion
    at December 30, 2006) and included our investment in
    IMFT of $2.2 billion ($1.3 billion at
    December 30, 2006). Our non-marketable equity investments
    are classified in other long-term assets on the consolidated
    balance sheets.

Non-marketable equity investments are inherently risky, and a
    number of these companies are likely to fail. Their success is
    dependent on product development, market acceptance, operational
    efficiency, and other factors. In addition, depending on their
    future prospects and market conditions, they may not be able to
    raise additional funds when needed or they may receive lower
    valuations, with less favorable investment terms than in
    previous financings, and our investments would likely become
    impaired.

We review our investments quarterly for indicators of
    impairment; however, for non-marketable equity investments, the
    impairment analysis requires significant judgment to identify
    events or circumstances that would significantly harm the fair
    value of the investment. The indicators that we use to identify
    those events or circumstances include:

the investee s revenue and earnings trends relative to
    predefined milestones and overall business prospects;

the technological feasibility of the investee s products
    and technologies;

the general market conditions in the investee s industry or
    geographic area, including adverse regulatory or economic
    changes;

factors related to the investee s ability to remain in
    business, such as the investee s liquidity, debt ratios,
    and the rate at which the investee is using its cash; and

the investee s receipt of additional funding at a lower
    valuation. If an investee obtains additional funding at a
    valuation lower than our carrying amount or a new round of
    equity funding is required for the investee to remain in
    business, and the new round of equity does not appear imminent,
    it is presumed that the investment is other than temporarily
    impaired, unless specific facts and circumstances indicate
    otherwise.

Investments that we identify as having an indicator of
    impairment are subject to further analysis to determine if the
    investment is other than temporarily impaired, in which case we
    write down the investment to its estimated fair value. For
    non-marketable equity investments that we do not consider viable
    from a financial or technological point of view, we write down
    the entire investment, since we consider the estimated fair
    value to be nominal. Over the past 12 quarters, including the
    fourth quarter of 2007, impairments of non-marketable equity
    investments have ranged between $10 million and
    $44 million per quarter.

28

Table of Contents   

MANAGEMENT S
    DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF
    OPERATION (Continued)  

Long-Lived
    Assets   

We assess the impairment of long-lived assets when events or
    changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying value of the
    assets or the asset grouping may not be recoverable. Factors
    that we consider in deciding when to perform an impairment
    review include significant under-performance of a business or
    product line in relation to expectations, significant negative
    industry or economic trends, and significant changes or planned
    changes in our use of the assets. Recoverability of assets that
    will continue to be used in our operations is measured by
    comparing the carrying amount of the asset grouping to our
    estimate of the related total future undiscounted net cash
    flows. If an asset grouping s carrying value is not
    recoverable through the related undiscounted cash flows, the
    asset grouping is considered to be impaired. The impairment is
    measured by comparing the difference between the asset
    grouping s carrying amount and its fair value, based on the
    best information available, including market prices or
    discounted cash flow analysis.

Impairments of long-lived assets are determined for groups of
    assets related to the lowest level of identifiable independent
    cash flows. Due to our asset usage model and the interchangeable
    nature of our semiconductor manufacturing capacity, we must make
    subjective judgments in determining the independent cash flows
    that can be related to specific asset groupings. In addition, as
    we make manufacturing process conversions and other factory
    planning decisions, we must make subjective judgments regarding
    the remaining useful lives of assets, primarily process-specific
    semiconductor manufacturing tools and building improvements.
    When we determine that the useful lives of assets are shorter
    than we had originally estimated, we accelerate the rate of
    depreciation over the assets  new, shorter useful lives.
    Over the past 12 quarters, including the fourth quarter of 2007,
    impairments and accelerated depreciation of long-lived assets
    have ranged between $1 million and $320 million per
    quarter. This range includes restructuring charges for asset
    impairments between zero and $317 million per quarter.

Income
    Taxes   

We must make certain estimates and judgments in determining
    income tax expense for financial statement purposes. These
    estimates and judgments occur in the calculation of tax credits,
    benefits, and deductions, and in the calculation of certain tax
    assets and liabilities, which arise from differences in the
    timing of recognition of revenue and expense for tax and
    financial statement purposes, as well as the interest and
    penalties related to these uncertain tax positions. Significant
    changes to these estimates may result in an increase or decrease
    to our tax provision in a subsequent period.

We must assess the likelihood that we will be able to recover
    our deferred tax assets. If recovery is not likely, we must
    increase our provision for taxes by recording a valuation
    allowance against the deferred tax assets that we estimate will
    not ultimately be recoverable. We believe that we will
    ultimately recover a substantial majority of the deferred tax
    assets recorded on our consolidated balance sheets. However,
    should there be a change in our ability to recover our deferred
    tax assets, our tax provision would increase in the period in
    which we determined that the recovery was not likely.

The calculation of our tax liabilities involves dealing with
    uncertainties in the application of complex tax regulations. In
    the first quarter of 2007, we adopted Financial Accounting
    Standards Board (FASB) Interpretation No. 48,
     Accounting for Uncertainty in Income Taxes an
    interpretation of SFAS No. 109  (FIN 48),
    and related guidance (see  Note 17: Taxes  in
    Part II, Item 8 of this
     Form 10-K). 
    As a result of the implementation of FIN 48, we recognize
    liabilities for uncertain tax positions based on the two-step
    process prescribed in the interpretation. The first step is to
    evaluate the tax position for recognition by determining if the
    weight of available evidence indicates that it is more likely
    than not that the position will be sustained on audit, including
    resolution of related appeals or litigation processes, if any.
    The second step requires us to estimate and measure the tax
    benefit as the largest amount that is more than 50% likely to be
    realized upon ultimate settlement. It is inherently difficult
    and subjective to estimate such amounts, as we have to determine
    the probability of various possible outcomes. We reevaluate
    these uncertain tax positions on a quarterly basis. This
    evaluation is based on factors including, but not limited to,
    changes in facts or circumstances, changes in tax law,
    effectively settled issues under audit, and new audit activity.
    Such a change in recognition or measurement would result in the
    recognition of a tax benefit or an additional charge to the tax
    provision.

29

Table of Contents   

MANAGEMENT S
    DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF
    OPERATION (Continued)  

Inventory   

The valuation of inventory requires us to estimate obsolete or
    excess inventory as well as inventory that is not of saleable
    quality. The determination of obsolete or excess inventory
    requires us to estimate the future demand for our products. The
    demand forecast is included in the development of our short-term
    manufacturing plans to enable consistency between inventory
    valuation and build decisions.
     Product-specific 
    facts and circumstances reviewed in the inventory valuation
    process include a review of the customer base, the stage of the
    product life cycle of our products, consumer confidence, and
    customer acceptance of our products, as well as an assessment of
    the selling price in relation to the product cost. If our demand
    forecast for specific products is greater than actual demand and
    we fail to reduce manufacturing output accordingly, or if we
    fail to forecast the demand accurately, we could be required to
    write off inventory, which would negatively impact our gross
    margin.

Share-Based
    Compensation   

Effective January 1, 2006, we adopted the provisions of
    Statement of Financial Accounting Standards (SFAS) No. 123
    (revised 2004),  Shared-Based Payment 
    (SFAS No. 123(R)). SFAS No. 123(R) requires
    employee equity awards to be accounted for under the fair value
    method. Total share-based compensation during 2007 was
    $952 million ($1.4 billion in 2006). Determining the
    appropriate fair-value model and calculating the fair value of
    employee stock options and rights to purchase shares under stock
    purchase plans at the date of grant require judgment. We use the
    Black-Scholes option pricing model to estimate the fair value of
    these share-based awards consistent with the provisions of
    SFAS No. 123(R). Option pricing models, including the
    Black-Scholes model, also require the use of input assumptions,
    including expected volatility, expected life, expected dividend
    rate, and expected risk-free rate of return. The assumptions for
    expected volatility and expected life are the two assumptions
    that significantly affect the grant date fair value. Changes in
    the expected dividend rate and expected risk-free rate of return
    do not significantly impact the calculation of fair value, and
    determining these inputs is not highly subjective.

We use implied volatility based on freely traded options in the
    open market, as we believe implied volatility is more reflective
    of market conditions and a better indicator of expected
    volatility than historical volatility. In determining the
    appropriateness of implied volatility, we considered the
    following:

the volume of market activity of freely traded options, and
    determined that there was sufficient market activity;

the ability to reasonably match the input variables of freely
    traded options to those of options granted by the company, such
    as the date of grant and the exercise price, and determined that
    the input assumptions were comparable; and

the term of freely traded options used to derive implied
    volatility, which is generally one to two years, and determined
    that the length of term was sufficient.

Due to significant differences in the vesting terms and
    contractual life of current option grants compared to the
    majority of our historical grants, management does not believe
    that our historical share option exercise data provides us with
    sufficient evidence to estimate expected term. Therefore, we use
    the simplified method of calculating expected life described in
    the SEC s Staff Accounting Bulletin 107
    (SAB 107). In December 2007, the SEC issued Staff
    Accounting Bulletin 110 (SAB 110) to amend the
    SEC s views discussed in SAB 107 regarding the use of
    the simplified method in developing an estimate of expected life
    of share options in accordance with SFAS No. 123(R).
    SAB 110 is effective for us beginning in the first quarter
    of fiscal year 2008. We will continue to use the simplified
    method until we have the historical data necessary to provide a
    reasonable estimate of expected life, in accordance with
    SAB 107, as amended by SAB 110.

30

Table of Contents   

MANAGEMENT S
    DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF
    OPERATION (Continued)  

Higher volatility and longer expected lives result in an
    increase to share-based compensation determined at the date of
    grant. The effect that changes in the volatility and the
    expected life would have on the weighted average fair value of
    option awards and the increase in total fair value during 2007
    and 2006 were as follows:

1   

Amounts represent the hypothetical increase in the total fair
    value determined at the date of grant, which would be amortized
    over the service period, net of estimated forfeitures.  

2   

For example, an increase from 26% reported volatility for
    2007 to a hypothetical 31% volatility.  

In addition, SFAS No. 123(R) requires us to develop an
    estimate of the number of share-based awards that will be
    forfeited due to employee turnover. Quarterly adjustments in the
    estimated forfeiture rates can have a significant effect on
    reported share-based compensation, as we recognize the
    cumulative effect of the rate adjustments for all expense
    amortization after January 1, 2006 in the period in which
    the estimated forfeiture rates are adjusted. We estimate and
    adjust forfeiture rates based on a quarterly review of recent
    forfeiture activity and expected future employee turnover. If a
    revised forfeiture rate is higher than our previously estimated
    forfeiture rate, we make an adjustment that will result in a
    decrease in the expense recognized in the financial statements.
    If a revised forfeiture rate is lower than the previously
    estimated forfeiture rate, we make an adjustment that will
    result in an increase in the expense recognized in the financial
    statements. These adjustments affect our gross margin; R D
    expenses; and marketing, general and administrative expenses.
    The effect of forfeiture adjustments in 2006 and 2007 was
    insignificant. We record cumulative adjustments to the extent
    that the related expense is recognized in the financial
    statements, beginning with implementation of
    SFAS No. 123(R) in the first quarter of 2006.
    Therefore, the potential impact from cumulative forfeiture
    adjustments will increase in future periods. The expense that we
    recognize in future periods could also differ significantly from
    the current period and from our forecasts due to adjustments in
    the assumed forfeiture rates.

Recent
    Accounting Pronouncements and Accounting Changes  

See  Note 2: Accounting Policies  in
    Part II, Item 8 of this
     Form 10-K 
    for a description of accounting changes and recent accounting
    pronouncements, including the expected dates of adoption and
    estimated effects, if any, on our consolidated financial
    statements.

31

Table of Contents   

MANAGEMENT S
    DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF
    OPERATION (Continued)  

Results
    of Operations  

The following table sets forth certain consolidated statements
    of income data as a percentage of net revenue for the periods
    indicated:

The following table sets forth revenue information of geographic
    regions for the periods indicated:

Our net revenue was $38.3 billion in 2007, an increase of
    8% compared to 2006. Higher microprocessor unit sales were
    partially offset by lower microprocessor average selling prices.
    Higher mobile chipset unit sales also contributed to the
    increase in net revenue.

Lower NOR flash memory revenue was mostly offset by the ramp of
    our NAND flash memory business. The decrease in NOR flash memory
    revenue was due to a significant decline in average selling
    prices. Lower royalty revenue was offset by higher unit sales.

Revenue in the Asia-Pacific region increased 11% and revenue in
    the Europe region increased 10% in 2007 compared to 2006, and
    revenue in both the Americas region and Japan increased 3% in
    2007 compared to 2006. Revenue from both mature and emerging
    markets increased in 2007 compared to 2006. While the revenue in
    mature markets increased in all four geographic regions, the
    majority of the growth in revenue occurred in the Asia-Pacific
    region. A substantial majority of the increase in emerging
    markets also occurred in the Asia-Pacific region.

32

Table of Contents   

MANAGEMENT S
    DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF
    OPERATION (Continued)  

Our overall gross margin dollars for 2007 were
    $19.9 billion, an increase of $1.7 billion, or 9%,
    compared to 2006. Our overall gross margin percentage was
    relatively flat at 51.9% in 2007 compared to 51.5% in 2006. The
    gross margin percentage increase in the Digital Enterprise Group
    operating segment was mostly offset by a decrease in the gross
    margin percentage in the Mobility Group operating segment and
    costs associated with the ramp of our NAND flash memory
    business. We derived most of our overall gross margin dollars
    and operating profit in 2007 and 2006 from the sale of
    microprocessors in the Digital Enterprise Group and Mobility
    Group operating segments. See  Business Outlook  for a
    discussion of gross margin expectations.

Our net revenue was $35.4 billion in 2006, a decrease of 9%
    compared to 2005. Substantially all of the decrease was due to
    significantly lower average selling prices of microprocessors.
    Fiscal year 2006 was a 52-week fiscal year in contrast to fiscal
    year 2005, which was a
     53-week 
    fiscal year.

Revenue from sales of NOR flash memory products decreased in
    2006 compared to 2005, primarily due to lower average selling
    prices, partially offset by higher royalty revenue. In 2006, we
    began shipping NAND flash memory products manufactured by IMFT.

Revenue in the Asia-Pacific region decreased 10% and revenue in
    the Europe region decreased 20% in 2006 compared to 2005. These
    decreases were slightly offset by revenue in Japan, which
    increased slightly in 2006 compared to 2005. Revenue in the
    Americas region was approximately flat in 2006 compared to 2005.
    Mature and emerging markets both declined in 2006 compared to
    2005. The decrease within mature markets occurred in the Europe
    and Asia-Pacific regions, and a substantial majority of the
    decrease within the emerging markets occurred in the Europe and
    Asia-Pacific regions.

Our overall gross margin dollars for 2006 were
    $18.2 billion, a decrease of $4.8 billion, or 21%,
    compared to 2005. Our overall gross margin percentage decreased
    to 51.5% in 2006 from 59.4% in 2005. The gross margin percentage
    for the Digital Enterprise Group and the Mobility Group were
    both lower in 2006 compared to 2005. A mix shift of our total
    revenue to the Mobility Group, which has a higher gross margin
    percentage, slightly offset these decreases to the overall gross
    margin. We derived most of our overall gross margin dollars in
    2006 and 2005 from the sale of microprocessors in the Digital
    Enterprise Group and Mobility Group operating segments. The
    2006 gross margin included the impact of share-based
    compensation, which we began recognizing in 2006. The
    2005 gross margin was affected by a litigation settlement
    agreement with MicroUnity, Inc. in which we recorded a
    $140 million charge to cost of sales, of which
    $110 million was allocated to the Digital Enterprise Group
    and $30 million was allocated to the Mobility Group.

Digital
    Enterprise Group   

The revenue and operating income for the Digital Enterprise
    Group (DEG) for the three years ended December 29, 2007
    were as follows:

Net revenue for the DEG operating segment increased by
    $464 million, or 2%, in 2007 compared to 2006.
    Microprocessors within DEG include microprocessors designed for
    the desktop and enterprise computing market segments as well as
    embedded microprocessors. The increase in microprocessor revenue
    was due to higher microprocessor unit sales and higher
    enterprise average selling prices. These increases were
    partially offset by lower desktop average selling prices in a
    competitive pricing environment. The decrease in chipset,
    motherboard, and other revenue was due to lower motherboard unit
    sales as well as a decrease in communications infrastructure
    revenue, which is primarily due to divestitures of certain
    communications infrastructure businesses that were completed in
    2006 and 2007. Partially offsetting these decreases was higher
    chipset revenue.

Operating income increased by $1.7 billion, or 47%, in 2007
    compared to 2006. The increase in operating income was primarily
    due to lower desktop microprocessor unit costs and lower
    operating expenses, and to a lesser extent, sales of desktop
    microprocessor inventory that had been previously written off.
    Partially offsetting these increases were higher chipset unit
    costs and approximately $425 million of higher
     start-up 
    costs, primarily related to our 45nm process technology. In
    2007, we began including shared-based compensation in the
    computation of operating income (loss) for each operating
    segment and adjusted the 2006 operating segment results to
    reflect this change.

33

Table of Contents   

MANAGEMENT S
    DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF
    OPERATION (Continued)  

For 2006, net revenue for the DEG operating segment decreased by
    $5.3 billion, or 21%, compared to 2005. The decline in net
    revenue was mostly due to a significant decline in
    microprocessor revenue, and to a lesser extent, a decline in
    chipset, motherboard, and other revenue. The decline in
    microprocessor revenue was due to lower average selling prices
    and unit sales of desktop microprocessors. Enterprise
    microprocessor revenue increased in 2006. The decline in
    chipset, motherboard, and other revenue was due equally to lower
    chipset revenue and motherboard revenue.

Operating income decreased by $5.5 billion, or 61%, in 2006
    compared to 2005. Substantially all of the decrease was due to
    the revenue decline. Higher microprocessor unit costs, along
    with $210 million of higher factory under-utilization
    charges, were offset by approximately $540 million of lower
     start-up 
    costs. Unit costs were higher in 2006 compared to 2005 due
    primarily to a mix shift to dual-core microprocessors. Results
    for 2006 included the recognition of share-based compensation.
    Results for 2005 did not include share-based compensation.
    Results for 2005 included a charge related to a settlement
    agreement with MicroUnity.

Mobility
    Group   

The revenue and operating income for the Mobility Group (MG) for
    the three years ended December 29, 2007 were as follows:

Net revenue for the MG operating segment increased by
    $2.4 billion, or 19%, in 2007 compared to 2006.
    Microprocessor revenue increased by $1.4 billion, or 16%,
    in 2007 compared to 2006, while chipsets and other revenue
    increased by $924 million, or 30%, in 2007 compared to
    2006. The increase in microprocessor revenue was due to a
    significant increase in unit sales, partially offset by
    significantly lower average selling prices. The increase in
    chipset and other revenue was due to higher unit sales of
    chipsets, and to a lesser extent, higher revenue from sales of
    cellular baseband products. In the fourth quarter of 2006, we
    sold certain assets of the business line that included
    application and cellular baseband processors used in handheld
    devices; however, in 2007 we continued to manufacture and sell
    these products as part of a manufacturing and transition
    services agreement.

Operating income increased by $1.0 billion, or 22%, in 2007
    compared to 2006. The increase in operating income was primarily
    due to higher revenue. Lower microprocessor unit costs were more
    than offset by approximately $330 million of higher
     start-up 
    costs, primarily related to our 45nm process technology. Lower
    unit costs on wireless connectivity and cellular baseband
    products were offset by higher chipset unit costs. Operating
    expenses were higher in 2007 compared to 2006; however,
    operating expenses as a percentage of revenue decreased in 2007
    compared to 2006.

For 2006, net revenue for the MG operating segment increased by
    $1.2 billion, or 11%, compared to 2005. Microprocessor
    revenue increased by $508 million, or 6%, in 2006 compared
    to 2005, while chipsets and other revenue increased by
    $670 million, or 28%, in 2006 compared to 2005. The
    increase in microprocessor revenue was due to higher unit sales,
    largely offset by lower average selling prices. The majority of
    the increase in chipset and other revenue was due to higher
    revenue from sales of chipsets, and to a lesser extent, higher
    revenue from sales of wireless connectivity products. Sales of
    these products increased primarily due to increased sales of our
    Intel Centrino processor technologies.

Operating income decreased by $740 million, or 14%, in 2006
    compared to 2005. The decline was primarily caused by higher
    operating expenses, due in part to the recognition of
    share-based compensation. Results for 2005 did not include
    share-based compensation. The effects of higher revenue were
    offset by higher unit costs for microprocessors.
     Start-up 
    costs were approximately $170 million lower in 2006
    compared to 2005.

34

Table of Contents   

MANAGEMENT S
    DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF
    OPERATION (Continued)  

Operating
    Expenses   

Operating expenses for the three years ended December 29,
    2007 were as follows:

Research and Development.  R D spending
    decreased $118 million, or 2%, in 2007 compared to 2006,
    and increased $728 million, or 14%, in 2006 compared to
    2005. The decrease in 2007 compared to 2006 was primarily due to
    lower process development costs as we transitioned from R D
    to manufacturing using our 45nm process technology, partially
    offset by higher profit-dependent compensation. The increase in
    2006 compared to 2005 was primarily due to share-based
    compensation resulting from the implementation of
    SFAS No. 123(R) in 2006, and to a lesser extent,
    higher development costs driven by our 45nm process technology.

Marketing, General and Administrative.  Marketing,
    general and administrative expenses decreased $695 million,
    or 11%, in 2007 compared to 2006, and increased
    $408 million, or 7%, in 2006 compared to 2005. The decrease
    in 2007 compared to 2006 was primarily due to lower headcount,
    lower share-based compensation, and lower cooperative
    advertising expenses, partially offset by higher
    profit-dependent compensation. The increase in 2006 compared to
    2005 was primarily due to share-based compensation resulting
    from the implementation of SFAS No. 123(R) in 2006,
    and to a lesser extent, higher headcount. Partially offsetting
    these increases were lower marketing program spending and lower
    profit-dependent compensation.

R D along with marketing, general and administrative
    expenses were 29% of net revenue in 2007, 34% of net revenue in
    2006, and 28% of net revenue in 2005. Fiscal year 2005 included
    53 weeks. The percentage decline in 2007 compared to 2006
    is an indication of our progress toward improving our cost
    structure and efficiency as we grew revenue at a faster rate
    than operating expenses.

Restructuring and Asset Impairment Charges.  In the
    third quarter of 2006, management approved several actions that
    were recommended by our structure and efficiency task force as
    part of a restructuring plan designed to improve operational
    efficiency and financial results. Some of these activities
    involve cost savings or other actions that do not result in
    restructuring charges, such as better utilization of assets,
    reduced spending, and organizational efficiencies. The
    efficiency program includes headcount targets for various groups
    within the company, and these targets are being met through
    ongoing employee attrition and terminations. In addition,
    business divestitures further reduce our headcount.

Restructuring and asset impairment charges for the three years
    ended December 29, 2007 were as follows:

During 2006, we completed the divestiture of three businesses
    concurrently with the ongoing execution of our efficiency
    program. See  Note 13: Divestitures  in
    Part II, Item 8 of this
     Form 10-K 
    for further discussion. In connection with the divestiture of
    certain assets of our communications and application processor
    business, we recorded impairment charges of $103 million
    related to the write-down of manufacturing tools to their fair
    value, less the cost to dispose of the assets. We determined the
    fair value using a market-based valuation technique. In
    addition, as a result of both this divestiture and a subsequent
    assessment of our worldwide manufacturing capacity operations,
    we placed for sale our fabrication facility in Colorado Springs,
    Colorado. This plan resulted in an impairment charge of
    $214 million to write down to fair value the land,
    building, and equipment asset grouping that has been principally
    used to support our communications and application processor
    business. We determined the fair market value of the asset
    grouping using an average of the results from using the cost
    approach and market approach valuation techniques.

35

Table of Contents   

MANAGEMENT S
    DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF
    OPERATION (Continued)  

During 2007, we incurred an additional $54 million in asset
    impairment charges as a result of softer than anticipated market
    conditions related to the Colorado Springs facility. Also, we
    recorded land and building write-downs related to certain
    facilities in Santa Clara, California. In addition, during
    the fourth quarter we incurred $85 million in asset
    impairment charges related to the anticipated divestiture of our
    NOR flash memory business. The impairment charges were
    determined using the revised fair value, less selling costs,
    that we expected to receive upon completion of the divestiture.
    See  Note 13: Divestitures  in Part II,
    Item 8 of this
     Form 10-K 
    for further information on this divestiture, which is expected
    to be completed during the first quarter of 2008.

The following table summarizes the restructuring and asset
    impairment activity for 2006 and 2007:

We recorded the additional accruals, net of adjustments, as
    restructuring and asset impairment charges on the consolidated
    statements of income. The remaining accrual as of
    December 29, 2007 was related to severance benefits that we
    recorded as a current liability within accrued compensation and
    benefits on the consolidated balance sheets.

From the third quarter of 2006 through the fourth quarter of
    2007, we incurred a total of $1.1 billion in restructuring
    and asset impairment charges related to this plan. These charges
    included a total of $527 million related to employee
    severance and benefit arrangements due to the termination of
    approximately 9,900 employees, of which
    7,700 employees had left the company as of
    December 29, 2007. A substantial majority of these employee
    terminations affected employees within manufacturing,
    information technology, and marketing. Of the employee severance
    and benefit charges incurred as of December 29, 2007, we
    had paid $400 million. The restructuring and asset
    impairment charges also included $544 million in asset
    impairment charges.

We estimate that employee severance and benefit charges to date
    will result in gross annual savings of approximately
    $1.0 billion, a portion of which we began to realize in the
    third quarter of 2006. We are realizing these savings within
    marketing, general and administrative expenses, cost of sales,
    and R D. Our outlook for the first quarter of 2008 is for
    additional restructuring and asset impairment charges of
    $100 million. We may incur additional restructuring charges
    in the future for employee severance and benefit arrangements,
    as well as facility-related or other exit activities.

Amortization of Acquisition-Related Intangibles and
    Costs.  Amortization of acquisition-related intangibles
    and costs was $16 million in 2007 ($42 million in 2006
    and $126 million in 2005). The decreased amortization each
    year compared to the previous year was primarily due to a
    portion of the intangibles related to prior acquisitions
    becoming fully amortized.

36

Table of Contents   

MANAGEMENT S
    DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF
    OPERATION (Continued)  

Gains
    (losses) on Equity Investments, Interest and Other, and
    Provision for Taxes   

Gains (losses) on equity investments, net; interest and other,
    net; and provision for taxes for the three years ended
    December 29, 2007 were as follows:

Net gains on equity investments were $157 million in 2007
    compared to $214 million in 2006. During 2007, we
    recognized higher losses from our equity method investments,
    primarily from our investment in Clearwire Corporation. In
    addition, we recognized higher impairment charges, partially
    offset by higher gains on sales of equity investments and other
    equity transactions. Impairment charges were $120 million
    in 2007.

Net gains on equity investments were $214 million in 2006
    compared to net losses of $45 million in 2005. During 2006,
    we recognized higher gains on sales of equity investments and
    lower impairment charges compared to 2005. Net gains on equity
    investments in 2006 included the gain of $103 million on
    the sale of a portion of our investment in Micron, which was
    sold for $275 million. Impairment charges were
    $79 million in 2006 compared to $208 million in 2005.
    During 2005, impairment charges included a $105 million
    impairment charge on our investment in Micron.

Interest and other, net decreased to $793 million in 2007
    compared to $1.2 billion in 2006, primarily due to lower
    divestiture gains, partially offset by higher interest income
    resulting primarily from higher average investment balances, and
    to a lesser extent higher interest rates. Interest and other,
    net increased to $1.2 billion in 2006 compared to
    $565 million in 2005, reflecting net gains of
    $612 million for three divestitures (see
     Note 13: Divestitures  in Part II,
    Item 8 of this
     Form 10-K) 
    and higher interest income as a result of higher interest rates,
    partially offset by lower average investment balances.

Our effective income tax rate was 23.9% in 2007 (28.6% in 2006
    and 31.3% in 2005). The rate decreased in 2007 compared to 2006,
    primarily due to the reversal of previously accrued taxes of
    $481 million (including $50 million of accrued
    interest) related to settlements with the U.S. Internal
    Revenue Service in the first and second quarters of 2007. Our
    effective income tax rate was lower in 2006 compared to 2005,
    primarily due to a higher percentage of our profits being
    derived from lower tax jurisdictions. In addition, the rate for
    2005 included an increase to the tax provision of approximately
    $265 million as a result of the decision to repatriate
     non-U.S. earnings 
    under the American Jobs Creation Act of 2004. Partially
    offsetting the decrease in the effective tax rate was the impact
    of share-based compensation. In 2006, the phasing out of the tax
    benefit for export sales only slightly increased the effective
    tax rate compared to 2005, given the decrease in income before
    taxes.

Share-Based
    Compensation   

Share-based compensation totaled $952 million in 2007,
    $1.4 billion in 2006, and zero in 2005. Share-based
    compensation was included in cost of sales and operating
    expenses. We adopted SFAS No. 123(R) under the
    modified prospective transition method, effective beginning in
    2006. Prior to the adoption of SFAS No. 123(R), we
    accounted for our equity incentive plans under the intrinsic
    value recognition and measurement principles of Accounting
    Principles Board (APB) Opinion No. 25,  Accounting for
    Stock Issued to Employees  and related interpretations.
    Accordingly, no share-based compensation was recognized in net
    income. The decrease in share-based compensation from 2006 to
    2007 was a result of fewer equity awards vesting in 2007
    compared to 2006.

37

Table of Contents   

MANAGEMENT S
    DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF
    OPERATION (Continued)  

As of December 29, 2007, unrecognized share-based
    compensation costs and the weighted average periods over which
    the costs are expected to be recognized were as follows:

Unrecognized 

Share-Based 

Weighted 

Compensation 

Average 

(Dollars in Millions) 

Costs 

Period 

Stock options

$

524

1.1 years 

Restricted stock units

$

707

1.6 years 

Stock purchase plan

$

16

1 month

Liquidity
    and Capital Resources  

Cash, short-term investments, fixed-income debt instruments
    included in trading assets, and debt at the end of each period
    were as follows:

In summary, our cash flows were as follows:

Operating
    Activities   

Cash provided by operating activities is net income adjusted for
    certain non-cash items and changes in assets and liabilities.
    For 2007 compared to 2006, the increase in cash provided by
    operating activities was primarily due to higher net income.
    Changes to working capital in 2007 from 2006 were approximately
    flat, with a decrease in inventory levels in 2007 compared to an
    increase in 2006, offset by higher purchases of trading assets
    exceeding maturities. Lower product costs and the
    reclassification of NOR inventory to held for sale in
    conjunction with our anticipated divestiture of the NOR flash
    memory business contributed to the lower inventory balance in
    2007. In comparison, our inventory increased in 2006 as a result
    of higher product costs. In 2007, we began designating
    floating-rate securitized financial instruments purchased after
    2006 as trading assets.

For 2007 and 2006, our two largest customers accounted for 35%
    of our net revenue. In 2007, one of these customers accounted
    for 18% of our net revenue (19% in 2006) and another
    customer accounted for 17% of our net revenue (16% in 2006).
    Additionally, these two largest customers accounted for 35% of
    our accounts receivable at December 29, 2007 and
    December 30, 2006.

For 2006 compared to 2005, the largest contributing factors to
    the decrease in cash provided by operating activities were lower
    net income, lower net maturities of trading assets, and changes
    in the amount of estimated tax payments, partially offset by a
    decrease in accounts receivable balances. Fiscal year 2006
    included share-based compensation charges of $1.4 billion
    (zero for 2005).

38

Table of Contents   

MANAGEMENT S
    DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF
    OPERATION (Continued)  

Investing
    Activities   

Investing cash flows consist primarily of capital expenditures
    and net investment purchases, maturities, and disposals. For
    2007 compared to 2006, the increase in cash used for investing
    activities was primarily due to higher purchases of
    available-for-sale investments. Lower capital spending was
    mostly offset by lower proceeds from divestitures.

During 2007, we purchased more available-for-sale investments,
    particularly short-term, highly liquid investments, as our level
    of cash available to invest increased. We received lower cash
    from divestitures: $32 million for one divestiture in 2007
    compared to $752 million for three divestitures in 2006
    (see  Note 13: Divestitures  in Part II,
    Item 8 of this
     Form 10-K). 
    Our capital expenditures were $5.0 billion in 2007 and were
    primarily for the ramping of our new fabrication facilities.
    Capital expenditures for fiscal 2008 are currently expected to
    be approximately $5.2 billion, plus or minus
    $200 million. Capital expenditures during fiscal 2008 are
    expected to be funded by cash flows from operating activities.
    Capital expenditures were $5.9 billion in 2006 and 2005.

The decrease in cash used in investing activities in 2006
    compared to 2005 was primarily due to higher net maturities and
    sales of available-for-sale investments, cash received from
    divestitures in 2006, and the sale of a portion of our
    investment in Micron for $275 million. Partially offsetting
    these impacts, in 2006 we paid $600 million in cash for our
    equity investment in Clearwire and $615 million in cash for
    our equity investment in IMFT. In addition to the
    $615 million paid in cash, our initial investment in IMFT
    of $1.2 billion included the issuance of $581 million
    in notes (reflected as a financing activity) and a capital
    contribution of $128 million.

Financing
    Activities   

Financing cash flows consist primarily of repurchases and
    retirement of common stock, payment of dividends to
    stockholders, and proceeds from sales of shares through employee
    equity incentive plans.

For 2007 compared to 2006, the lower cash used in financing
    activities was primarily due to an increase in proceeds from
    sales of shares through employee equity incentive plans and a
    decrease in repurchases and retirement of common stock. Proceeds
    from sales of shares through employee equity incentive plans
    totaled $3.1 billion in 2007 compared to $1.0 billion
    in 2006, due to a higher volume of exercises of stock options
    because of our stock price trading at higher levels in 2007
    compared to 2006, and a higher weighted average exercise price.
    During 2007, we repurchased 111 million shares of common
    stock as part of our common stock repurchase program at a cost
    of $2.75 billion (226 million shares at a cost of
    $4.6 billion during 2006). As of December 29, 2007,
    $14.5 billion remained available for repurchase under the
    existing repurchase authorization of $25 billion. We base
    our level of stock repurchases on internal cash management
    decisions, and this level may fluctuate. Our dividend payments
    for 2007 were $2.6 billion. On January 17, 2008, our
    Board of Directors declared a cash dividend of $0.1275 per
    common share for the first quarter of 2008, which represents a
    13% increase in our quarterly cash dividend amount.

The lower cash used in financing activities in 2006 compared to
    2005 was primarily due to a decrease in repurchases and
    retirement of common stock, partially offset by additions to
    long-term debt in 2005 of $1.7 billion.

39

Table of Contents   

MANAGEMENT S
    DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF
    OPERATION (Continued)  

Liquidity   

Cash generated by operations is used as our primary source of
    liquidity. As of December 29, 2007, we also had an
    investment portfolio valued at $19.3 billion, consisting of
    cash and cash equivalents, fixed-income debt instruments
    included in trading assets, and short- and long-term
    investments. Substantially all of our investments in debt
    instruments are with A/A2 or better rated issuers, and the
    substantial majority of the issuers are rated AA/Aa2 or better.
    In addition to requiring all investments with original
    maturities of up to six months to be rated at least
     A-1/P-1  by
    Standard   Poors/Moody s, our investment policy
    specifies a higher minimum rating for investments with longer
    maturities. For instance, investments with maturities beyond
    three years require a minimum rating of AA-/Aa3. Government
    regulations imposed on investment alternatives of our
    non-U.S. subsidiaries, or the absence of A rated
    counterparties in certain countries, result in some minor
    exceptions, which are reviewed annually by the Finance Committee
    of our Board of Directors. As of December 29, 2007,
    $9.5 billion of our portfolio had a remaining maturity of
    less than three months, and a substantial majority of our
    investments have remaining maturities of two years or less. In
    2007, we did not recognize any other-than-temporary impairments
    on our portfolio of available-for-sale investments. During 2007,
    $24 million of unrealized losses were recognized related to
    debt instruments classified as trading assets, and as of
    December 29, 2007, $62 million of losses were
    unrealized related to debt instruments classified as
    available-for-sale. Substantially all of our unrealized losses
    can be attributed to fair value fluctuations in an unstable
    credit environment. As of December, 29, 2007, only
    $125 million of our investments did not comply with our
    credit guidelines, due to rating downgrades after the initial
    investment. However, these investments continue to be rated as
    investment-grade securities.

Our portfolio includes $1.8 billion of asset-backed
    securities collateralized by first-lien mortgages, credit card
    debt, student loans, and auto loans. As of December 29,
    2007, approximately one-third of our asset-backed securities
    were collateralized by first-lien mortgages. The mortgage-backed
    securities have an 80% loan-to-value ratio on average, and they
    include only first-lien mortgages. The average subordination
    level of the securities that we held as of December 29,
    2007 was 27% (ranging from 18% to 40%), implying that the
    mortgage pool would have to suffer losses beyond those levels
    before our securities experience realized losses. In 2007, our
    asset-backed securities experienced unrealized fair value
    declines totaling $42 million of which $19 million was
    recognized in our income statement for those classified under
    trading assets. As of December 29, 2007, all of our
    investments in asset-backed securities were rated AAA/Aaa, and
    the weighted average remaining maturity was less than two years.

We have the intent and ability to hold our debt investments for
    a sufficient period of time to allow for recovery of the
    principal amounts invested.

We continually monitor the credit risk in our portfolio and
    mitigate our credit and interest rate exposures in accordance
    with the policies approved by our Board of Directors. We intend
    to continue to closely monitor future developments in the credit
    markets and make appropriate changes to our investment policy as
    deemed necessary. Based on our ability to liquidate our
    investment portfolio and our expected operating cash flows, we
    do not anticipate any liquidity constraints as a result of the
    current credit environment.

Another potential source of liquidity is authorized borrowings,
    including commercial paper, of up to $3.0 billion. There
    were no borrowings under our commercial paper program during
    2007. We also have an automatic shelf registration on file with
    the SEC pursuant to which we may offer an indeterminate amount
    of debt, equity, and other securities.

We believe that we have the financial resources needed to meet
    business requirements for the next 12 months, including
    capital expenditures for the expansion or upgrading of worldwide
    manufacturing and assembly and test capacity, working capital
    requirements, the dividend program, potential stock repurchases,
    and potential acquisitions or strategic investments.

40

Table of Contents   

MANAGEMENT S
    DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF
    OPERATION (Continued)  

Contractual
    Obligations  

The following table summarizes our significant contractual
    obligations at December 29, 2007:

1   

Capital purchase obligations represent commitments for the
    construction or purchase of property, plant and equipment. They
    were not recorded as liabilities on our consolidated balance
    sheet as of December 29, 2007, as we had not yet received
    the related goods or taken title to the property. Capital
    purchase obligations decreased from $3.3 billion at
    December 30, 2006 to $2.3 billion at December 29,
    2007, primarily due to the timing of the ramp of our latest
    silicon process technology.  

2   

Other purchase obligations and commitments include payments
    due under various types of licenses, agreements to purchase raw
    materials or other goods, as well as payments due under
    non-contingent funding obligations. Funding obligations include,
    for example, agreements to fund various projects with other
    companies.  

3   

Amounts represent total anticipated cash payments, including
    anticipated interest payments that are not recorded on the
    consolidated balance sheets and the short-term portion of the
    obligation. Any future settlement of convertible debt would
    reduce anticipated interest and/or principal payments. Amounts
    exclude fair value adjustments such as discounts or premiums
    that affect the amount recorded on the consolidated balance
    sheets.  

4   

Other long-term liabilities includes income taxes payable.
    Long-term income taxes payable include uncertain tax positions,
    reduced by the associated federal deduction for state taxes and
     non-U.S.  tax
    credits, and may also include other long-term tax liabilities
    that are not uncertain but have not yet been paid. We are unable
    to reliably estimate the timing of future payments related to
    uncertain tax positions; therefore, $785 million of income
    taxes payable has been excluded from the table above.  

5   

Total excludes contractual obligations already recorded on
    the consolidated balance sheet as current liabilities (except
    for the
     short-term 
    portion of the long-term debt and other long-term liabilities)
    and certain purchase obligations, which are discussed below.  

Contractual obligations for purchases of goods or services
    generally include agreements that are enforceable and legally
    binding on Intel and that specify all significant terms,
    including fixed or minimum quantities to be purchased; fixed,
    minimum, or variable price provisions; and the approximate
    timing of the transaction. The table above also includes
    agreements to purchase raw materials that have cancellation
    provisions requiring little or no payment. The amounts under
    such contracts are included in the table above because
    management believes that cancellation of these contracts is
    unlikely and expects to make future cash payments according to
    the contract terms or in similar amounts for similar materials.
    For other obligations with cancellation provisions, the amounts
    included in the table above were limited to the non-cancelable
    portion of the agreement terms,
     and/or  the
    minimum cancellation fee.

We have entered into certain agreements for the purchase of raw
    materials or other goods that specify minimum prices and
    quantities that are based on a percentage of the total available
    market or based on a percentage of our future purchasing
    requirements. Due to the uncertainty of the future market and
    our future purchasing requirements, obligations under these
    agreements are not included in the table above. We estimate our
    obligation under these agreements as of December 29, 2007
    to be approximately as follows: less than one
    year $331 million; one to three
    years $377 million; three to five
    years $2 million; more than five years zero. Our
    purchase orders for other products are based on our current
    manufacturing needs and are fulfilled by our vendors within
    short time horizons. In addition, some of our purchase orders
    represent authorizations to purchase rather than binding
    agreements.

41

Table of Contents   

MANAGEMENT S
    DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF
    OPERATION (Continued)  

Contractual obligations that are contingent upon the achievement
    of certain milestones are not included in the table above. These
    obligations include milestone-based co-marketing agreements,
    contingent funding/payment obligations, and milestone-based
    equity investment funding. These arrangements are not considered
    contractual obligations until the milestone is met by the third
    party. As of December 29, 2007, assuming that all future
    milestones are met, additional required payments would be
    approximately $254 million.

For the majority of restricted stock units granted, the number
    of shares issued on the date the restricted stock units vest is
    net of the statutory withholding requirements that are paid by
    Intel on behalf of our employees. The obligation to pay the
    relative taxing authority is not included in the table above, as
    the amount is contingent upon continued employment. In addition,
    the amount of the obligation is unknown, as it is based in part
    on the market price of our common stock when the awards vest.

The expected timing of payments of the obligations above are
    estimates based on current information. Timing of payments and
    actual amounts paid may be different, depending on the time of
    receipt of goods or services, or changes to
     agreed-upon 
    amounts for some obligations. Amounts disclosed as contingent or
    milestone-based obligations are dependent on the achievement of
    the milestones or the occurrence of the contingent events and
    can vary significantly.

We have a contractual obligation to purchase the output of IMFT
    and IMFS in proportion to our investments, currently 49% in each
    of these ventures. However, IMFS is in its construction phase
    and has had no production to date. See  Note 19:
    Ventures  in Part II, Item 8 of this
     Form 10-K. 
    Additionally, we have entered into various contractual
    commitments in relation to our investments in IMFT and IMFS.
    Some of these commitments are with Micron, and some are directly
    with IMFT or IMFS. The following are the significant contractual
    commitments:

Subject to certain conditions, Intel and Micron each agreed to
    contribute up to approximately $1.4 billion for IMFT and up
    to approximately $1.7 billion for IMFS in the three years
    following the initial capital contributions. Of these amounts,
    as of December 29, 2007, our remaining commitments were
    approximately $260 million for IMFT and approximately
    $1.5 billion for IMFS.

We also have several agreements with Micron related to
    intellectual property rights, and R D funding related to
    NAND flash manufacturing and IMFT. See  Note 19:
    Ventures  in Part II, Item 8 of this
     Form 10-K. 

Off-Balance-Sheet
    Arrangements  

As of December 29, 2007, we did not have any significant
    off-balance-sheet arrangements, as defined in
    Item 303(a)(4)(ii) of SEC
     Regulation S-K. 

42

Table of Contents   

MANAGEMENT S
    DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF
    OPERATION (Continued)  

Business
    Outlook  

Our future results of operations and the topics of other
    forward-looking statements contained in this
     Form 10-K, 
    including this MD A, involve a number of risks and
    uncertainties in particular, our goals and strategies; new
    product introductions; plans to cultivate new businesses;
    pending divestitures; future economic conditions; revenue;
    pricing; gross margin and costs; capital spending; depreciation;
    R D expenses; marketing, general and administrative
    expenses; potential impairment of investments; our effective tax
    rate; pending legal proceedings; net gains (losses) from equity
    investments; and interest and other, net. Our future results of
    operations may also be affected by the amount, type, and
    valuation of share-based awards granted as well as the amount of
    awards cancelled due to employee turnover and the timing of
    award exercises by employees. We are focusing on efforts to
    improve operational efficiency and reduce spending that may
    result in several actions that could have an impact on expense
    levels and gross margin. In addition to the various important
    factors discussed above, a number of other important factors
    could cause actual results to differ materially from our
    expectations. See the risks described in  Risk
    Factors  in Part I, Item 1A of this
     Form 10-K. 

Our expectations for 2008 are as follows:

Gross margin:  57% plus or minus a few points. The
    57% midpoint is higher than our 2007 gross margin of 51.9%,
    primarily due to expected lower unit costs and lower
     start-up 
    costs, and to a lesser extent, the divestiture of lower margin
    businesses.

Capital spending:  approximately $5.2 billion,
    plus or minus $200 million, compared to $5.0 billion
    in 2007.

Depreciation:  approximately $4.4 billion, plus
    or minus $100 million, compared to $4.5 billion in
    2007.

Total spending:  spending on R D, plus
    marketing, general and administrative expenses in 2008 is
    expected to be approximately $11.4 billion. The expectation
    for total spending in 2008 is higher than our 2007 spending of
    $11.2 billion, as process development engineers transition
    from 45nm
     start-up 
    activities to 32nm development, causing a movement of spending
    from cost of sales to R D.

Research and development spending:  approximately
    $5.9 billion.

Tax rate:  approximately 31%. The estimated effective
    tax rate is based on tax law in effect at December 29, 2007
    and current expected income.

Status of
    Business Outlook  

We expect that our corporate representatives will, from time to
    time, meet privately with investors, investment analysts, the
    media, and others, and may reiterate the forward-looking
    statements contained in the  Business Outlook  section
    and elsewhere in this
     Form 10-K, 
    including any such statements that are incorporated by reference
    in this
     Form 10-K. 
    At the same time, we will keep this
     Form 10-K 
    and our most current business outlook publicly available on our
    Investor Relations web site at  www.intc.com . The public
    can continue to rely on the business outlook published on the
    web site as representing our current expectations on matters
    covered, unless we publish a notice stating otherwise. The
    statements in the  Business Outlook  and other
    forward-looking statements in this
     Form 10-K 
    are subject to revision during the course of the year in our
    quarterly earnings releases and SEC filings and at other times.

From the close of business on March 7, 2008 until our
    quarterly earnings release is published, presently scheduled for
    April 15, 2008, we will observe a  quiet period. 
    During the quiet period, the  Business Outlook  and
    other forward-looking statements first published in our
     Form 8-K 
    filed on January 15, 2008, as reiterated or updated as
    applicable, in this
     Form 10-K, 
    should be considered historical, speaking as of prior to the
    quiet period only and not subject to update. During the quiet
    period, our representatives will not comment on our business
    outlook or our financial results or expectations. The exact
    timing and duration of the routine quiet period, and any others
    that we utilize from time to time, may vary at our discretion.

43

Table of Contents   

ITEM 7A.  QUANTITATIVE
    AND QUALITATIVE DISCLOSURES ABOUT MARKET RISK  

We are exposed to financial market risks, including changes in
    currency exchange rates, interest rates, and equity prices. We
    use derivative financial instruments primarily to mitigate these
    risks. All of the potential changes noted below are based on
    sensitivity analyses performed on our financial positions at
    December 29, 2007 and December 30, 2006. Actual
    results may differ materially.

Currency
    Exchange Rates  

We generally hedge currency risks of
     non-U.S.-dollar-denominated 
    investments in debt instruments with offsetting currency
    borrowings, currency forward contracts, or currency interest
    rate swaps. Gains and losses on these
     non-U.S.-currency 
    investments would generally be offset by corresponding losses
    and gains on the related hedging instruments, resulting in
    negligible net exposure.

A majority of our revenue, expense, and capital purchasing
    activities are transacted in U.S. dollars. However, certain
    operating expenditures and capital purchases are incurred in or
    exposed to other currencies, primarily the euro, the Israeli
    shekel, and the Chinese yuan. To protect against reductions in
    value and the volatility of future cash flows caused by changes
    in currency exchange rates, we have established balance sheet
    and anticipated transaction risk management programs. Currency
    forward contracts and currency options are generally utilized in
    these hedging programs. Our hedging programs reduce, but do not
    always entirely eliminate, the impact of currency exchange rate
    movements (see  Risk Factors  in Part II, Item 1A of
    this Form 10-K). We considered the historical trends in currency
    exchange rates and determined that it was reasonably possible
    that a weighted average adverse change of 15% in currency
    exchange rates could be experienced in the near term. Such an
    adverse change, after taking into account hedges and offsetting
    positions, would have resulted in an adverse impact on income
    before taxes of less than $35 million at the end of 2007
    and 2006.

Interest
    Rates  

We are exposed to interest rate risk related to our investment
    portfolio and debt issuances. The primary objective of our
    investments in debt instruments is to preserve principal while
    maximizing yields. To achieve this objective, the returns on all
    of our investments in debt instruments are generally based on
    three-month LIBOR, or, if the maturities are longer than three
    months, the returns are generally swapped into U.S. dollar
    three-month LIBOR-based returns. We considered the historical
    volatility of the interest rates experienced in prior years and
    the duration of our investment portfolio and debt issuances, and
    determined that it was reasonably possible that an adverse
    change of 80 basis points (0.80%), approximately 17% of the
    rate at December 29, 2007 (15% of the rate at
    December 30, 2006), could be experienced in the near term.
    A hypothetical 0.80% decrease in interest rates, after taking
    into account hedges and offsetting positions, would have
    resulted in a decrease in the fair value of our net investment
    position of approximately $65 million as of
    December 29, 2007 and $50 million as of
    December 30, 2006. The decline reflects only the direct
    impact of the change in interest rates. Other economic
    variables, such as equity market fluctuations and changes in
    relative credit risk, could result in a significantly higher
    decline in our net investment portfolio.

Equity
    Prices  

Our marketable investments include marketable equity securities,
    equity derivative instruments such as warrants and options, and
    marketable equity method investments. To the extent that our
    marketable equity securities have strategic value, we typically
    do not attempt to reduce or eliminate our market exposure;
    however, for our investments in strategic equity derivative
    instruments, including warrants, we may enter into transactions
    to reduce or eliminate the market risks. For securities that we
    no longer consider strategic, we evaluate legal, market, and
    economic factors in our decision on the timing of disposal and
    whether it is possible and appropriate to hedge the equity
    market risk.

The marketable equity securities included in trading assets are
    held to generate returns that offset changes in liabilities
    related to the equity market risk of certain deferred
    compensation arrangements. The gains and losses from changes in
    fair value of these equity securities are generally offset by
    the gains and losses on the related liabilities, resulting in a
    net exposure of less than $10 million as of
    December 29, 2007 and December 30, 2006, assuming a
    reasonably possible decline in market prices of approximately
    10% in the near term.

As of December 29, 2007, the fair value of our marketable
    equity securities and equity derivative instruments, including
    hedging positions, was $1.0 billion ($427 million as
    of December 30, 2006). Our investments in VMware and Micron
    constituted 92% of our marketable equity securities as of
    December 29, 2007, and were carried at a fair market value
    of $794 million and $123 million, respectively. Our
    marketable equity method investment had a carrying value of
    $508 million and a fair value of $522 million as of
    December 29, 2007.

44

Table of Contents   

To assess the market price sensitivity of our marketable equity
    investments, we analyzed the historical movements over the past
    several years of high-technology stock indices that we
    considered appropriate. For our investments in companies that
    have been publicly traded for only a limited time, we analyzed
    the implied volatility of the related company based on freely
    traded options. Our marketable equity method investment is
    excluded from our analysis, as the carrying value does not
    fluctuate based on market price changes. Therefore, the
    potential fair value decline would not be indicative of the
    impact on our financial statements, unless an
    other-than-temporary impairment was deemed necessary. Based on
    our sensitivity analysis, we estimated that it was reasonably
    possible that the prices of the stocks of our marketable equity
    securities could experience a loss of 55% in the near term (30%
    as of December 30, 2006). Assuming a loss of 55% in market
    prices, and after reflecting the impact of hedges and offsetting
    positions, the aggregate value of our marketable equity
    investments could decrease by approximately $565 million,
    based on the value as of December 29, 2007 (a decrease in
    value of $134 million, based on the value as of
    December 30, 2006 using an assumed loss of 30%). This
    estimate is not necessarily indicative of future performance,
    and actual results may differ materially. The increase in
    exposure from December 30, 2006 to December 29, 2007
    is due to our purchase of VMware during 2007, its stock price
    volatility, and the weight of our investment in VMware in
    relation to our total marketable equity securities.

Many of the same factors that could result in an adverse
    movement of equity market prices affect our non-marketable
    equity investments, although we cannot quantify the impact
    directly. Such a movement and the underlying economic conditions
    would negatively affect the prospects of the companies we invest
    in, their ability to raise additional capital, and the
    likelihood of our being able to realize value in our investments
    through liquidity events such as initial public offerings,
    mergers, and private sales. These types of investments involve a
    great deal of risk, and there can be no assurance that any
    specific company will grow or become successful; consequently,
    we could lose all or part of our investment. Our non-marketable
    equity investments, excluding investments accounted for under
    the equity method, had a carrying amount of $805 million as
    of December 29, 2007 ($733 million as of
    December 30, 2006). The carrying amount of these
    investments approximated fair value as of December 29, 2007
    and December 30, 2006. As of December 29, 2007, the
    carrying amount of our non-marketable equity method investments
    was $2.6 billion ($2.0 billion as of December 30,
    2006) and consisted primarily of our investment in IMFT of
    $2.2 billion ($1.3 billion as of December 30,
    2006).

45

Table of Contents   

ITEM 8.   

FINANCIAL
    STATEMENTS AND SUPPLEMENTARY DATA  

INDEX TO
    CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS  

Page 

Consolidated Statements of Income 

47

Consolidated Balance Sheets 

48

Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows 

49

Consolidated Statements of Stockholders 
    Equity 

50

Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements 

51

Reports of Ernst   Young LLP,
    Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm 

92

Supplemental Data: Financial Information by
    Quarter 

94

46

Table of Contents   

INTEL
    CORPORATION 
    CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF INCOME  

1   

Cost of sales and operating expenses for the years ended
    December 29, 2007 and December 30, 2006 include
    share-based compensation. See  Note 2: Accounting
    Policies  and  Note 3: Employee Equity Incentive
    Plans.   

See accompanying notes. 

47

Table of Contents   

INTEL
    CORPORATION 
    CONSOLIDATED BALANCE SHEETS  

See accompanying notes. 

48

Table of Contents   

INTEL
    CORPORATION 
    CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF CASH FLOWS  

See accompanying notes. 

49

Table of Contents   

INTEL
    CORPORATION 
    CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF STOCKHOLDERS  EQUITY  

1   

See  Accounting Changes  in  Note 2:
    Accounting Policies  for further discussion of the
    cumulative-effect adjustments recorded at the beginning of
    fiscal year 2007.  

See accompanying notes. 

50

Table of Contents   

INTEL
    CORPORATION 
    NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS  

Note 1:
    Basis of Presentation  

We have a
     52-  or
     53-week 
    fiscal year that ends on the last Saturday in December. Fiscal
    year 2007, a
     52-week 
    year, ended on December 29, 2007. Fiscal year 2006, a
     52-week 
    year, ended on December 30, 2006. Fiscal year 2005, a
    53-week year, ended on December 31, 2005. The next
     53-week  year
    will end on December 31, 2011.

Our consolidated financial statements include the accounts of
    Intel and our wholly owned subsidiaries. Intercompany accounts
    and transactions have been eliminated. We use the equity method
    to account for equity investments in instances in which we own
    common stock or similar interests (as described by the Emerging
    Issues Task Force (EITF) Issue
     No. 02-14, 
     Whether an Investor Should Apply the Equity Method of
    Accounting to Investments Other Than Common Stock ), and
    have the ability to exercise significant influence, but not
    control, over the investee.

The U.S. dollar is the functional currency for Intel and
    our subsidiaries; therefore, there is no translation adjustment
    recorded through accumulated other comprehensive income (loss).
    Monetary accounts denominated in
     non-U.S. currencies, 
    such as cash or payables to vendors, have been remeasured to the
    U.S. dollar.

Note 2:
    Accounting Policies  

Use of
    Estimates   

The preparation of financial statements in conformity with
    U.S. generally accepted accounting principles requires us
    to make estimates and judgments that affect the amounts reported
    in our consolidated financial statements and the accompanying
    notes. The accounting estimates that require our most
    significant, difficult, and subjective judgments include:

the valuation of non-marketable equity investments;

the assessment of recoverability of long-lived assets;

the recognition and measurement of current and deferred income
    tax assets and liabilities (including the measurement of
    uncertain tax positions);

the valuation of inventory; and

the valuation and recognition of share-based compensation.

The actual results that we experience may differ materially from
    our estimates.

Cash
    and Cash Equivalents   

We consider all highly liquid debt instruments with original
    maturities from the date of purchase of approximately three
    months or less as cash and cash equivalents.

51

Table of Contents   

INTEL
    CORPORATION 
    NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)  

Trading
    Assets   

Investments that we designate as trading assets are reported at
    fair value, with gains or losses resulting from changes in fair
    value recognized in earnings. Our trading asset investments
    include:

Marketable debt instruments  when the interest rate or
    foreign exchange rate risk is hedged at inception by a related
    derivative instrument. We record the gains or losses of these
    investments arising from changes in fair value due to interest
    rate and currency market fluctuations and credit market
    volatility, offset by losses or gains on the related derivative
    instruments, in interest and other, net. We designate
    floating-rate securitized financial instruments, such as
    asset-backed securities, purchased after December 30, 2006
    as trading assets.

Equity securities offsetting deferred compensation  when
    the investments seek to offset changes in liabilities related to
    equity and other market risks of certain deferred compensation
    arrangements. We offset the gains or losses from changes in fair
    value of these equity securities against losses or gains on the
    related liabilities and include them in interest and other, net.

Marketable equity securities  when we deem the investments
    not to be strategic in nature at the time of original
    classification, and have the ability and intent to mitigate
    equity market risk through the sale or the use of derivative
    instruments. For these marketable equity securities, we include
    gains or losses from changes in fair value, primarily offset by
    losses or gains on related derivative instruments, in gains
    (losses) on equity investments, net.

Debt
    Instrument Investments   

We classify debt instruments with original maturities at the
    date of purchase greater than approximately three months and
    remaining maturities less than one year as short-term
    investments. We classify debt instruments with remaining
    maturities greater than one year as other long-term investments.
    We account for cost basis loan participation notes at amortized
    cost and classify them as short-term investments and other
    long-term investments based on stated maturities.

Available-for-Sale
    Investments   

Investments that we designate as available-for-sale are reported
    at fair value, with unrealized gains and losses, net of tax,
    recorded in accumulated other comprehensive income (loss). We
    base the cost of the investment sold on the specific
    identification method. Our available-for-sale investments
    include:

Marketable debt instruments  when the interest rate and
    foreign currency risks are not generally hedged at inception of
    the investment or when our designation for trading assets is not
    met. We hold these debt instruments to generate a return
    commensurate with three-month LIBOR. We record the interest
    income and realized gains and losses on the sale of these
    instruments in interest and other, net.

Marketable equity securities  when the investments are
    considered strategic in nature at the time of original
    classification. We acquire these equity investments for the
    promotion of business and strategic objectives. To the extent
    that these investments continue to have strategic value, we
    typically do not attempt to reduce or eliminate the inherent
    equity market risks through hedging activities. We record the
    realized gains or losses on the sale or exchange of marketable
    equity securities in gains (losses) on equity investments, net.

Non-Marketable
    and Other Equity Investments   

We account for non-marketable and other equity investments under
    either the cost or equity method and include them in other
    long-term assets. Our non-marketable and other equity
    investments include:

Equity method investments  when we have the ability to
    exercise significant influence, but not control, over the
    investee. We record equity method adjustments in gains (losses)
    on equity investments, net and may do so with up to a
    one-quarter lag. Equity method adjustments include: our
    proportionate share of investee income or loss, gains or losses
    resulting from investee capital transactions, amortization of
    certain differences between our carrying value and our equity in
    the net assets of the investee at the date of investment, and
    other adjustments required by the equity method. Equity method
    investments include marketable and non-marketable investments.

Non-marketable cost method investments  when we do not
    have the ability to exercise significant influence over the
    investee.

52

Table of Contents   

INTEL
    CORPORATION 
    NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)  

Other-Than-Temporary
    Impairment   

All of our available-for-sale investments and non-marketable and
    other equity investments are subject to a periodic impairment
    review. Investments are considered to be impaired when a decline
    in fair value is judged to be other-than-temporary, for the
    following investments:

Marketable equity securities  when the resulting fair
    value is significantly below cost basis
     and/or  the
    significant decline has lasted for an extended period of time.
    The evaluation that we use to determine whether a marketable
    equity security is impaired is based on the specific facts and
    circumstances present at the time of assessment, which include
    the consideration of general market conditions, the duration and
    extent to which the fair value is below cost, and our intent and
    ability to hold the investment for a sufficient period of time
    to allow for recovery in value. We also consider specific
    adverse conditions related to the financial health of and
    business outlook for the investee, including industry and sector
    performance, changes in technology, operational and financing
    cash flow factors, and changes in the investee s credit
    rating.

Non-marketable equity investments  when events or
    circumstances are identified that would significantly harm the
    fair value of the investment. The indicators that we use to
    identify those events and circumstances include:

the investee s revenue and earning trends relative to
    predefined milestones and overall business prospects;

the technological feasibility of the investee s products
    and technologies;

the general market conditions in the investee s industry or
    geographic area, including regulatory or economic changes;

factors related to the investee s ability to remain in
    business, such as the investee s liquidity, debt ratios,
    and the rate at which the investee is using its cash; and

the investee s receipt of additional funding at a lower
    valuation. If an investee obtains additional funding at a
    valuation lower than our carrying amount or a new round of
    equity funding is required for the investee to remain in
    business, and the new round of equity does not appear imminent,
    it is presumed that the investment is other than temporarily
    impaired, unless specific facts and circumstances indicate
    otherwise.

Marketable debt instruments  when the fair value is
    significantly below amortized cost
     and/or  the
    significant decline has lasted for an extended period of time
    and we do not have the intent and ability to hold the investment
    for a sufficient period of time to allow for recovery. The
    evaluation that we use to determine whether a marketable debt
    instrument is impaired is based on the specific facts and
    circumstances present at the time of assessment, which include
    the consideration of the financial condition and near-term
    prospects of the issuer, and the duration and extent to which
    the fair value is below cost.

Investments that we identify as having an indicator of
    impairment are subject to further analysis to determine if the
    investment is other than temporarily impaired, in which case we
    write down the investment to its estimated fair value. For
    non-marketable equity investments that we do not consider viable
    from a financial or technological point of view, we write the
    entire investment down, since we consider the estimated fair
    value to be nominal. We record impairment charges in gains
    (losses) on equity investments, net for marketable and
    non-marketable equity investments or in interest and other, net
    for debt instrument investments.

Fair
    Values of Financial Instruments   

The carrying value of cash equivalents approximates fair value
    due to the short period of time to maturity. Fair values of
    short-term investments, trading assets, long-term investments,
    marketable equity investments, certain non-marketable
    investments, short-term debt, long-term debt, swaps, currency
    forward contracts, currency options, equity options, and
    warrants are based on quoted market prices or pricing models
    using current market data when available. Debt instruments are
    generally valued using a quoted market price of identical or
    similar instruments or discounted cash flows in a yield-curve
    model based on LIBOR. Equity options and warrants are priced
    using option pricing models. Our financial instruments are
    recorded at fair value, except for cost basis loan participation
    notes and debt. Estimated fair values are management s
    estimates; however, when there is no readily available market
    data, the estimated fair values may not necessarily represent
    the amounts that could be realized in a current transaction, and
    the fair values could change significantly. For a listing of
    fair values and carrying values of our trading assets and
    available-for-sale investments for 2007 and 2006, see
     Note 7: Investments. 

For our marketable equity method investment, the fair value
    exceeded the aggregate carrying value by $14 million as of
    December 29, 2007. We did not have any marketable equity
    method investments in 2006. For non-marketable equity
    investments, the fair value exceeded the carrying value by
    approximately $600 million as of December 29, 2007. We
    believe that the fair value of non-marketable equity investments
    approximated the carrying value at December 30, 2006. For
    our cost basis loan participation notes, the fair value exceeded
    the carrying value by approximately $50 million as of
    December 29, 2007 (approximately $55 million as of
    December 30, 2006). These fair value estimates take into
    account the movements of the equity and venture capital markets
    as well as changes in the interest rate environment, and other
    economic variables.

53

Table of Contents   

INTEL
    CORPORATION 
    NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)  

For our long-term debt, the fair value exceeded the carrying
    value by approximately $65 million as of December 29,
    2007. As of December 30, 2006, the fair value of our
    long-term debt was below its carrying value by approximately
    $100 million. These fair value estimates take into
    consideration credit rating changes, equity price movements,
    interest rate changes, and other economic variables.

Derivative
    Financial Instruments   

Our primary objective for holding derivative financial
    instruments is to manage currency, interest rate, and certain
    equity market risks. Our derivative financial instruments are
    recorded at fair value and are included in other current assets,
    other long-term assets, other accrued liabilities, or other
    long-term liabilities. Derivative instruments recorded as assets
    totaled $118 million at December 29, 2007
    ($117 million at December 30, 2006). Derivative
    instruments recorded as liabilities totaled $130 million at
    December 29, 2007 ($62 million at December 30,
    2006).

Our accounting policies for derivative financial instruments are
    based on whether they meet the criteria for designation as cash
    flow or fair value hedges. A designated hedge of the exposure to
    variability in the future cash flows of an asset or a liability,
    or of a forecasted transaction, is referred to as a cash flow
    hedge. A designated hedge of the exposure to changes in fair
    value of an asset or a liability, or of an unrecognized firm
    commitment, is referred to as a fair value hedge. The criteria
    for designating a derivative as a hedge include the assessment
    of the instrument s effectiveness in risk reduction,
    matching of the derivative instrument to its underlying
    transaction, and the probability that the underlying transaction
    will occur. We recognize gains and losses from changes in fair
    values of derivatives that are not designated as hedges for
    accounting purposes within the same income statement line item
    as the underlying item, and these gains and losses generally
    offset changes in fair values of related assets or liabilities.
    Derivatives that we designate as hedges are classified in the
    consolidated statements of cash flows in the same section as the
    underlying item, primarily within cash flows from operating
    activities. Derivatives not designated as hedges are classified
    in cash flows from operating activities.

As part of our strategic investment program, we also acquire
    equity derivative instruments, such as warrants and equity
    conversion rights associated with debt instruments, which are
    not designated as hedging instruments. We recognize the gains or
    losses from changes in fair values of these equity derivative
    instruments in gains (losses) on equity investments, net.

Through the use of derivative financial instruments, we manage
    the following risks:

Currency
    Risk  

We transact business in various currencies other than the
    U.S. dollar and have established balance sheet and
    forecasted transaction risk management programs to protect
    against fluctuations in fair value and the volatility of future
    cash flows caused by changes in exchange rates. The forecasted
    transaction risk management program includes anticipated
    transactions such as operating expenditures and capital
    purchases. These programs reduce, but do not always entirely
    eliminate, the impact of currency exchange movements.

54

Table of Contents   

INTEL
    CORPORATION 
    NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)  

Our currency risk management programs include:

Currency derivatives with cash flow hedge accounting
    designation  that utilize currency forward contracts and
    currency options to hedge exposures to the variability in the
     U.S.-dollar 
    equivalent of anticipated
     non-U.S.-dollar-denominated 
    cash flows. The maturity of these instruments generally occurs
    within 12 months. For these derivatives, we report the
    after-tax gain or loss from the effective portion of the hedge
    as a component of accumulated other comprehensive income (loss)
    in stockholders  equity and reclassify it into earnings in
    the same period or periods in which the hedged transaction
    affects earnings, and within the same line item on the
    consolidated statements of income as the impact of the hedged
    transaction.

Currency derivatives with fair value hedge accounting
    designation  that utilize currency forward contracts and
    currency options to hedge the fair value exposure of recognized
    foreign-currency-denominated assets or liabilities, or
    previously unrecognized firm commitments. For fair value hedges,
    we recognize gains or losses in earnings to offset fair value
    changes in the hedged transaction. As of December 29, 2007
    and December 30, 2006, we did not have any derivatives
    designated as foreign currency fair value hedges.

Currency derivatives without hedge accounting designation
     that utilize currency forward contracts or currency interest
    rate swaps to economically hedge the functional currency
    equivalent cash flows of recognized monetary assets and
    liabilities and
     non-U.S.-dollar-denominated 
    debt instruments classified as trading assets. The maturity of
    these instruments generally occurs within 12 months, except
    for derivatives associated with certain long-term equity-related
    investments that generally mature within five years. Changes in
    the
     U.S.-dollar-equivalent 
    cash flows of the underlying assets and liabilities are
    approximately offset by the changes in fair values of the
    related derivatives. We record net gains or losses in the income
    statement line item most closely associated with the economic
    underlying, primarily in interest and other, net, except for
    equity-related gains or losses, which we primarily record in
    gains (losses) on equity investments, net.

Interest
    Rate Risk  

Our primary objective for holding investments in debt
    instruments is to preserve principal while maximizing yields. We
    generally swap the returns on our investments in fixed-rate debt
    instruments with remaining maturities longer than six months
    into U.S. dollar three-month LIBOR-based returns unless
    management specifically approves otherwise. Our interest rate
    risk management programs include:

Interest rate derivatives with cash flow hedge accounting
    designation  that utilize interest rate swap agreements to
    modify the interest characteristics of some of our investments.
    For these derivatives, we report the after-tax gain or loss from
    the effective portion of the hedge as a component of accumulated
    other comprehensive income (loss) and reclassify it into
    earnings in the same period or periods in which the hedged
    transaction affects earnings, and within the same income
    statement line item as the impact of the hedged transaction.

Interest rate derivatives with fair value hedge accounting
    designation  that utilize interest rate swap agreements to
    hedge the fair values of debt instruments. We recognize the
    gains or losses from the changes in fair value of these
    instruments, as well as the offsetting change in the fair value
    of the hedged long-term debt, in interest expense. At
    December 29, 2007 and December 30, 2006, we did not
    have any interest rate derivatives designated as fair value
    hedges.

Interest rate derivatives without hedge accounting
    designation  that utilize interest rate swaps and currency
    interest rate swaps in economic hedging transactions, including
    hedges of
     non-U.S.-dollar-denominated 
    debt instruments classified as trading assets. We reset the
    floating interest rates on the swaps on a monthly, quarterly, or
    semiannual basis. Changes in fair value of the debt instruments
    classified as trading assets are generally offset by changes in
    fair value of the related derivatives, both of which are
    recorded in interest and other, net.

Equity
    Market Risk  

We may elect to mitigate equity risk using the following equity
    market risk management programs:

Equity derivatives with hedge accounting designation  that
    utilize equity options, swaps, or forward contracts to hedge the
    equity market risk of marketable equity securities, when these
    investments are not considered to have strategic value. These
    derivatives are generally designated as fair value hedges. We
    recognize the gains or losses from the change in fair value of
    these equity derivatives, as well as the offsetting change in
    the fair value of the underlying hedged equity securities, in
    gains (losses) on equity investments, net. At December 29,
    2007 and December 30, 2006, we did not have any equity
    derivatives designated as fair value hedges.

Equity derivatives without hedge accounting designation
     that utilize equity derivatives, such as warrants, equity
    options, or other equity derivatives. We recognize changes in
    the fair value of such derivatives in gains (losses) on equity
    investments, net.

55

Table of Contents   

INTEL
    CORPORATION 
    NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)  

Measurement
    of Effectiveness  

Effectiveness for forwards  is generally measured by
    comparing the cumulative change in the fair value of the hedge
    contract with the cumulative change in the present value of the
    forecasted cash flows of the hedged item. For currency forward
    contracts used in cash flow hedging strategies related to
    capital purchases, forward points are excluded, and
    effectiveness is measured using spot rates to value both the
    hedge contract and the hedged item. For currency forward
    contracts used in cash flow hedging strategies related to
    operating expenditures, forward points are included and
    effectiveness is measured using forward rates to value both the
    hedge contract and the hedged item.

Effectiveness for currency options and equity options with
    hedge accounting designation  is generally measured by
    comparing the cumulative change in the fair value of the hedge
    contract with the cumulative change in the fair value of an
    option instrument representing the hedged risks in the hedged
    item for cash flow hedges. For fair value hedges, time value is
    excluded and effectiveness is measured based on spot rates to
    value both the hedge contract and the hedged item.

Effectiveness for interest rate swaps  is generally
    measured by comparing the change in fair value of the hedged
    item with the change in fair value of the interest rate swap.

If a cash flow hedge were discontinued because it was no longer
    probable that the original hedged transaction would occur as
    anticipated, the unrealized gain or loss on the related
    derivative would be reclassified into earnings. Subsequent gains
    or losses on the related derivative instrument would be
    recognized in income in each period until the instrument
    matures, is terminated, is re-designated as a qualified hedge,
    or is sold. Any ineffective portion of both cash flow and fair
    value hedges, as well as amounts excluded from the assessment of
    effectiveness, are recognized in earnings in interest and other,
    net.

Securities
    Lending   

We may enter into securities lending agreements with financial
    institutions, generally to facilitate hedging and certain
    investment transactions. Selected securities may be loaned,
    secured by collateral in the form of cash or securities. The
    loaned securities continue to be carried as investment assets on
    our consolidated balance sheets. Cash collateral is recorded as
    an asset with a corresponding liability. For lending agreements
    collateralized by securities, we do not record the collateral as
    an asset or a liability, unless the collateral is repledged.

Inventories   

We compute inventory cost on a currently adjusted standard basis
    (which approximates actual cost on an average or
     first-in, 
    first-out basis). The valuation of inventory requires us to
    estimate obsolete or excess inventory as well as inventory that
    is not of saleable quality. The determination of obsolete or
    excess inventory requires us to estimate the future demand for
    our products. Inventory in excess of saleable amounts is not
    valued, and the remaining inventory is valued at the lower of
    cost or market. Inventories at fiscal year-ends were as follows:

56

Table of Contents   

INTEL
    CORPORATION 
    NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)  

Property,
    Plant and Equipment   

Property, plant and equipment, net at fiscal year-ends was as
    follows:

We state property, plant and equipment at cost, less accumulated
    depreciation. We compute depreciation for financial reporting
    purposes principally using the straight-line method over the
    following estimated useful lives: machinery and equipment, 2 to
    4 years; buildings, 4 to 40 years. Reviews are
    regularly performed if facts and circumstances indicate that the
    carrying amount of assets may not be recoverable or that the
    useful life is shorter than we had originally estimated. We
    assess the recoverability of our assets held for use by
    comparing the projected undiscounted net cash flows associated
    with the related asset or group of assets over their remaining
    estimated useful lives against their respective carrying
    amounts. Impairment, if any, is based on the excess of the
    carrying amount over the fair value of those assets. If we
    determine that the useful lives are shorter than we had
    originally estimated, we depreciate the net book value of the
    assets over the newly determined remaining useful lives. See
     Note 16: Restructuring and Asset Impairment
    Charges  for further discussion of restructuring-related
    asset impairment charges that we recorded during 2007 and 2006.

We identify property, plant and equipment as held for sale when
    it meets the criteria of Statement of Financial Accounting
    Standards (SFAS) No. 144,  Accounting for Impairment
    or Disposal of Long-Lived Assets.  We reclassify held for
    sale assets to other current assets and cease recording
    depreciation.

We capitalize interest on borrowings related to eligible capital
    expenditures. We add capitalized interest to the cost of
    qualified assets and amortize it over the estimated useful lives
    of the assets. Capital-related government grants earned are
    recorded as a reduction to property, plant and equipment.

Goodwill   

We record goodwill when the purchase price of an acquisition
    exceeds the estimated fair value of the net identified tangible
    and intangible assets acquired. We perform an annual impairment
    review for each reporting unit using a fair value approach.
    Reporting units may be operating segments as a whole or an
    operation one level below an operating segment, referred to as a
    component. In determining the carrying value of the reporting
    unit, we have to make an allocation of our manufacturing and
    assembly and test assets because of the interchangeable nature
    of our manufacturing and assembly and test capacity. We base
    this allocation on each reporting unit s relative
    percentage utilization of the manufacturing and assembly and
    test assets. In the event that an individual business within a
    reporting unit is divested, we allocate goodwill to that
    business based on its fair value relative to its reporting unit.
    For further discussion of goodwill, see  Note 15:
    Goodwill. 

Identified
    Intangible Assets   

Intellectual property assets primarily represent rights acquired
    under technology licenses and are generally amortized on a
    straight-line basis over the periods of benefit, ranging from
    2 to 17 years. We amortize acquisition-related
    developed technology on a straight-line basis over approximately
    4 years. Other intangible assets include
    acquisition-related customer lists and
     workforce-in-place, 
    which we amortize on a straight-line basis over periods ranging
    from 2 to 4 years. We classify all identified
    intangible assets within other long-term assets. In the quarter
    following the period in which identified intangible assets
    become fully amortized, the fully amortized balances are removed
    from the gross asset and accumulated amortization amounts. For
    further discussion of identified intangible assets, see
     Note 14: Identified Intangible Assets. 

57

Table of Contents   

INTEL
    CORPORATION 
    NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)  

We perform a quarterly review of identified intangible assets to
    determine if facts and circumstances indicate that the useful
    life is shorter than we had originally estimated or that the
    carrying amount of assets may not be recoverable. If such facts
    and circumstances do exist, we assess the recoverability of
    identified intangible assets by comparing the projected
    undiscounted net cash flows associated with the related asset or
    group of assets over their remaining lives against their
    respective carrying amounts. Impairments, if any, are based on
    the excess of the carrying amount over the fair value of those
    assets.

Product
    Warranty   

We generally sell products with a limited warranty on product
    quality and a limited indemnification for customers against
    intellectual property infringement claims related to our
    products. We accrue for known warranty and indemnification
    issues if a loss is probable and can be reasonably estimated,
    and accrue for estimated incurred but unidentified issues based
    on historical activity. The accrual and the related expense for
    known issues were not significant during the periods presented.
    Due to product testing and the short time typically between
    product shipment and the detection and correction of product
    failures, and considering the historical rate of payments on
    indemnification claims, the accrual and related expense for
    estimated incurred but unidentified issues were not significant
    during the periods presented.

Revenue
    Recognition   

We recognize net revenue when the earnings process is complete,
    as evidenced by an agreement with the customer, transfer of
    title, and acceptance, if applicable, as well as fixed pricing
    and probable collectibility. We record pricing allowances,
    including discounts based on contractual arrangements with
    customers, when revenue is recognized as a reduction to both
    accounts receivable and net revenue. Because of frequent sales
    price reductions and rapid technology obsolescence in the
    industry, we defer sales made to distributors under agreements
    allowing price protection
     and/or  right
    of return until the distributors sell the merchandise. We
    include shipping charges billed to customers in net revenue, and
    include the related shipping costs in cost of sales.

Advertising   

Cooperative advertising programs reimburse customers for
    marketing activities for certain of our products, subject to
    defined criteria. We accrue cooperative advertising obligations
    and record the costs at the same time the related revenue is
    recognized. We record cooperative advertising costs as
    marketing, general and administrative expenses to the extent
    that an advertising benefit separate from the revenue
    transaction can be identified and the fair value of that
    advertising benefit received is determinable. We record any
    excess in cash paid over the fair value of the advertising
    benefit received as a reduction in revenue. Advertising costs
    recorded within marketing, general and administrative expenses
    were $1.9 billion in 2007 ($2.3 billion in 2006 and
    $2.6 billion in 2005).

Employee
    Equity Incentive Plans   

We have employee equity incentive plans, which are described
    more fully in  Note 3: Employee Equity Incentive
    Plans.  Effective January 1, 2006, we adopted the
    provisions of SFAS No. 123 (revised 2004),
     Share-Based Payment  (SFAS No. 123(R)).
    SFAS No. 123(R) requires employee equity awards to be
    accounted for under the fair value method. Accordingly, we
    measure share-based compensation at the grant date, based on the
    fair value of the award. Prior to January 1, 2006, we
    accounted for awards granted under our equity incentive plans
    using the intrinsic value method prescribed by Accounting
    Principles Board (APB) Opinion No. 25,  Accounting for
    Stock Issued to Employees  (APB No. 25), and related
    interpretations, and provided the required pro forma disclosures
    prescribed by SFAS No. 123,  Accounting for
    Stock-Based Compensation  (SFAS No. 123), as
    amended. The exercise price of options is equal to the value of
    Intel common stock on the date of grant. Additionally, the stock
    purchase plan was deemed non-compensatory under APB No. 25.
    Accordingly, prior to 2006 we did not recognize any share-based
    compensation, other than insignificant amounts of
    acquisition-related compensation, on the consolidated financial
    statements.

58

Table of Contents   

INTEL
    CORPORATION 
    NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)  

Under the modified prospective method of adoption for
    SFAS No. 123(R), the compensation cost that we
    recognized beginning in 2006 includes (a) compensation cost
    for all equity incentive awards granted prior to but not yet
    vested as of January 1, 2006, based on the
     grant-date 
    fair value estimated in accordance with the original provisions
    of SFAS No. 123, and (b) compensation cost for
    all equity incentive awards granted subsequent to
    January 1, 2006, based on the grant-date fair value
    estimated in accordance with the provisions of
    SFAS No. 123(R). We use the straight-line attribution
    method to recognize share-based compensation over the service
    period of the award. Upon exercise, cancellation, forfeiture, or
    expiration of stock options, or upon vesting or forfeiture of
    restricted stock units, we eliminate deferred tax assets for
    options and restricted stock units with multiple vesting dates
    for each vesting period on a
     first-in, 
    first-out basis as if each vesting period were a separate award.
    To calculate the excess tax benefits available as of the date of
    adoption for use in offsetting future tax shortfalls, we
    followed the alternative transition method discussed in
    Financial Accounting Standards Board (FASB) Staff Position
    No. 123(R)-3.

Recent
    Accounting Pronouncements   

In September 2006, the FASB issued SFAS No. 157,
     Fair Value Measurements  (SFAS No. 157).
    SFAS No. 157 defines fair value, establishes a
    framework for measuring fair value, and enhances fair value
    measurement disclosure. In February 2008, the FASB issued FASB
    Staff Position (FSP) 157-1,  Application of FASB Statement
    No. 157 to FASB Statement No. 13 and Other Accounting
    Pronouncements That Address Fair Value Measurements for Purposes
    of Lease Classification or Measurement under Statement 13 
    (FSP 157-1) and FSP
     157-2, 
     Effective Date of FASB Statement No. 157 
     (FSP 157-2). 
    FSP 157-1 amends SFAS No. 157 to remove certain leasing
    transactions from its scope.
     FSP 157-2 
    delays the effective date of SFAS No. 157 for all
    non-financial assets and non-financial liabilities, except for
    items that are recognized or disclosed at fair value in the
    financial statements on a recurring basis (at least annually),
    until the beginning of the first quarter of fiscal 2009. The
    measurement and disclosure requirements related to financial
    assets and financial liabilities are effective for us beginning
    in the first quarter of fiscal 2008. The adoption of
    SFAS No. 157 for financial assets and financial
    liabilities will not have a significant impact on our
    consolidated financial statements. However, the resulting fair
    values calculated under SFAS No. 157 after adoption
    may be different from the fair values that would have been
    calculated under previous guidance. We are currently evaluating
    the impact that SFAS No. 157 will have on our
    consolidated financial statements when it is applied to
    non-financial assets and non-financial liabilities beginning in
    the first quarter of 2009.

In February 2007, the FASB issued SFAS No. 159,
     The Fair Value Option for Financial Assets and Financial
    Liabilities  (SFAS No. 159).
    SFAS No. 159 permits companies to choose to measure
    certain financial instruments and other items at fair value. The
    standard requires that unrealized gains and losses are reported
    in earnings for items measured using the fair value option.
    SFAS No. 159 is effective for us beginning in the
    first quarter of fiscal year 2008. The adoption of
    SFAS No. 159 is not expected to have a significant
    impact on our consolidated financial statements.

In June 2007, the FASB ratified EITF Issue
     No. 07-3, 
     Accounting for Nonrefundable Advance Payments for Goods or
    Services to Be Used in Future Research and Development
    Activities 
     (EITF 07-3). 
     EITF 07-3 
    requires non-refundable advance payments for goods and services
    to be used in future research and development (R D)
    activities to be recorded as assets and the payments to be
    expensed when the R D activities are performed.
     EITF 07-3 
    applies prospectively for new contractual arrangements entered
    into beginning in the first quarter of fiscal year 2008. Prior
    to adoption, we recognized these non-refundable advance payments
    as an expense upon payment. The adoption of
     EITF 07-3 
    is not expected to have a significant impact on our consolidated
    financial statements.

In December 2007, the FASB issued SFAS No. 141
    (revised 2007),  Business Combinations 
    (SFAS No. 141(R)). Under SFAS No. 141(R), an
    entity is required to recognize the assets acquired, liabilities
    assumed, contractual contingencies, and contingent consideration
    at their fair value on the acquisition date. It further requires
    that acquisition-related costs be recognized separately from the
    acquisition and expensed as incurred, restructuring costs
    generally be expensed in periods subsequent to the acquisition
    date, and changes in accounting for deferred tax asset valuation
    allowances and acquired income tax uncertainties after the
    measurement period impact income tax expense. In addition,
    acquired in-process research and development (IPR D) is
    capitalized as an intangible asset and amortized over its
    estimated useful life. The adoption of SFAS No. 141(R)
    will change our accounting treatment for business combinations
    on a prospective basis beginning in the first quarter of fiscal
    year 2009.

59

Table of Contents   

INTEL
    CORPORATION 
    NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)  

In December 2007, the FASB issued SFAS No. 160,
     Noncontrolling Interests in Consolidated Financial
    Statements an amendment of ARB No. 51 
    (SFAS No. 160). SFAS No. 160 changes the
    accounting and reporting for minority interests, which will be
    recharacterized as non-controlling interests and classified as a
    component of equity. SFAS No. 160 is effective for us
    on a prospective basis for business combinations with an
    acquisition date beginning in the first quarter of fiscal year
    2009. As of December 29, 2007, we did not have any minority
    interests. The adoption of SFAS No. 160 will not
    impact our consolidated financial statements.

In December 2007, the U.S. Securities and Exchange
    Commission (SEC) issued Staff Accounting Bulletin 110
    (SAB 110) to amend the SEC s views discussed in
    Staff Accounting Bulletin 107 (SAB 107) regarding
    the use of the simplified method in developing an estimate of
    expected life of share options in accordance with
    SFAS No. 123(R). SAB 110 is effective for us
    beginning in the first quarter of fiscal year 2008. We will
    continue to use the simplified method until we have the
    historical data necessary to provide a reasonable estimate of
    expected life in accordance with SAB 107, as amended by
    SAB 110.

Accounting
    Changes   

In fiscal year 2007, we adopted EITF Issue
     No. 06-2, 
     Accounting for Sabbatical Leave and Other Similar Benefits
    Pursuant to FASB Statement No. 43 
     (EITF 06-2). 
     EITF 06-2 
    requires companies to accrue the cost of these compensated
    absences over the service period. We adopted
     EITF 06-2 
    through a cumulative-effect adjustment, resulting in an
    additional liability of $280 million, additional deferred
    tax assets of $99 million, and a reduction to retained
    earnings of $181 million at the beginning of 2007.

We also adopted FASB Interpretation No. 48,
     Accounting for Uncertainty in Income Taxes an
    interpretation of FASB Statement No. 109 
    (FIN 48), and related guidance in fiscal year 2007. See
     Note 17: Taxes  for further discussion.

Note 3:
    Employee Equity Incentive Plans  

Our equity incentive plans are broad-based, long-term retention
    programs intended to attract and retain talented employees and
    align stockholder and employee interests.

In May 2007, stockholders approved an extension of the 2006
    Equity Incentive Plan (the 2006 Plan). Stockholders approved
    119 million additional shares for issuance, increasing the
    total shares of common stock available for issuance as equity
    awards to employees and
     non-employee 
    directors to 294 million shares. Of this amount, we
    increased the maximum number of shares to be awarded as
    non-vested shares (restricted stock) or non-vested share units
    (restricted stock units) to 168 million shares. The
    approval also extended the expiration date of the 2006 Plan to
    June 2010. The 2006 Plan allows for time-based,
    performance-based, and market-based vesting for equity incentive
    awards. As of December 29, 2007, we had not issued any
    performance-based or market-based equity incentive awards. As of
    December 29, 2007, 226 million shares remained
    available for future grant under the 2006 Plan. We may assume
    the equity incentive plans and the outstanding equity awards of
    certain acquired companies. Once they are assumed, we do not
    grant additional shares under these plans.

We began issuing restricted stock units in 2006. We issue shares
    on the date that the restricted stock units vest. The majority
    of shares issued are net of the statutory withholding
    requirements that we pay on behalf of our employees. As a
    result, the actual number of shares issued will be less than the
    number of restricted stock units granted. Prior to vesting,
    restricted stock units do not have dividend equivalent rights,
    do not have voting rights, and the shares underlying the
    restricted stock units are not considered issued and outstanding.

Equity awards granted to employees in 2007 under our equity
    incentive plans generally vest over 4 years from the date
    of grant, and options expire 7 years from the date of
    grant. Equity awards granted to key officers, senior-level
    employees, and key employees in 2007 may have delayed
    vesting beginning 2 to 5 years from the date of grant, and
    options expire 7 to 10 years from the date of grant.

The 2006 Stock Purchase Plan allows eligible employees to
    purchase shares of our common stock at 85% of the value of our
    common stock on specific dates. Under the 2006 Stock Purchase
    Plan, we made 240 million shares of common stock available
    for issuance through August 2011. As of December 29, 2007,
    214 million shares were available for issuance under the
    2006 Stock Purchase Plan.

60

Table of Contents   

INTEL
    CORPORATION 
    NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)  

Share-Based
    Compensation   

Effective January 1, 2006, we adopted the provisions of
    SFAS No. 123(R), as discussed in  Note 2:
    Accounting Policies.  Share-based compensation recognized
    in 2007 was $952 million ($1,375 million in 2006 and
    zero in 2005).

In accordance with SFAS No. 123(R), we adjust
    share-based compensation on a quarterly basis for changes to our
    estimate of expected equity award forfeitures based on our
    review of recent forfeiture activity and expected future
    employee turnover. We recognize the effect of adjusting the
    forfeiture rate for all expense amortization after
    January 1, 2006 in the period that we change the forfeiture
    estimate. The effect of forfeiture adjustments in 2007 and 2006
    was insignificant.

The total share-based compensation cost capitalized as part of
    inventory as of December 29, 2007 was $41 million
    ($72 million as of December 30, 2006). The amount that
    we would have capitalized to inventory as of December 31,
    2005, if we had applied the provisions of
    SFAS No. 123(R) retrospectively, was $66 million.
    Under the provisions of SFAS No. 123(R), we recorded
    $66 million as a credit to common stock and capital in
    excess of par value. During 2007, the tax benefit that we
    realized for the tax deduction from option exercises and other
    awards totaled $265 million ($139 million in 2006).

Pro forma information required under SFAS No. 123(R)
    for 2005, as if we had applied the fair value recognition
    provisions of SFAS No. 123 to options granted under
    our equity incentive plans and rights to acquire stock granted
    under our stock purchase plan, is as follows:

(In Millions, Except Per Share Amounts) 

2005 

Net income, as reported

$

8,664

Less:  total share-based compensation determined under the
    fair value method for all awards, net of tax

1,262

Pro forma net income

$

7,402

Reported basic earnings per common share

$

1.42

Pro forma basic earnings per common share

$

1.21

Reported diluted earnings per common share

$

1.40

Pro forma diluted earnings per common share

$

1.20

For share-based compensation recognized in 2007 and 2006 as a
    result of the adoption of SFAS No. 123(R), as well as
    pro forma disclosures according to the original provisions of
    SFAS No. 123 for periods prior to the adoption of
    SFAS No. 123(R), we use the
     Black-Scholes 
    option pricing model to estimate the fair value of options
    granted under our equity incentive plans and rights to acquire
    stock granted under our stock purchase plan. We based the
    weighted average estimated values of employee stock option
    grants and rights granted under the stock purchase plan, as well
    as the weighted average assumptions used in calculating these
    values, on estimates at the date of grant, as follows:

1   

Estimated values and assumptions used in calculating fair
    value prior to the adoption of SFAS No. 123(R).  

61

Table of Contents   

INTEL
    CORPORATION 
    NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)  

We base the expected volatility on implied volatility, because
    we have determined that implied volatility is more reflective of
    market conditions and a better indicator of expected volatility
    than historical volatility. We use the simplified method of
    calculating expected life described in SAB 107, due to
    significant differences in the vesting terms and contractual
    life of current option grants compared to our historical grants.

We estimate the fair value of restricted stock unit awards using
    the value of our common stock on the date of grant, reduced by
    the present value of dividends expected to be paid on our common
    stock prior to vesting. We based the weighted average estimated
    values of restricted stock unit grants, as well as the weighted
    average assumptions that we used in calculating the fair value,
    on estimates at the date of grant, as follows:

Stock
    Option Awards   

Options outstanding that have vested and are expected to vest as
    of December 29, 2007 are as follows:

1   

Amounts represent the difference between the exercise price
    and $26.76, the closing price of Intel stock on
    December 28, 2007, as reported on The NASDAQ Global Select
    Market*, for all in-the-money options outstanding.  

2   

Options outstanding that are expected to vest are net of
    estimated future option forfeitures in accordance with the
    provisions of SFAS No. 123(R).  

Options with a fair value of $1.4 billion completed vesting
    during 2007. As of December 29, 2007, there was
    $524 million in unrecognized compensation costs related to
    stock options granted under our equity incentive plans. We
    expect to recognize those costs over a weighted average period
    of 1.1 years.

62

Table of Contents   

INTEL
    CORPORATION 
    NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)  

Additional information with respect to stock option activity is
    as follows:

1   

Amounts represent the difference between the exercise price
    and the value of Intel stock at the time of exercise.  

The following table summarizes information about options
    outstanding at December 29, 2007:

These options will expire if they are not exercised by specific
    dates through January 2017. Option exercise prices for options
    exercised during the three-year period ended December 29,
    2007 ranged from $0.05 to $28.05.

63

Table of Contents   

INTEL
    CORPORATION 
    NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)  

Restricted
    Stock Unit Awards   

Information with respect to outstanding restricted stock unit
    activity is as follows:

1   

Represents the value of Intel stock on the date that the
    restricted stock units vest.  

2   

The number of restricted stock units vested includes shares
    that we withheld on behalf of employees to satisfy the statutory
    tax withholding requirements.  

3   

On the grant date, the fair value for these vested awards was
    $111 million.  

As of December 29, 2007, there was $707 million in
    unrecognized compensation costs related to restricted stock
    units granted under our equity incentive plans. We expect to
    recognize those costs over a weighted average period of
    1.6 years.

Stock
    Purchase Plan   

Approximately 75% of our employees were participating in our
    stock purchase plan as of December 29, 2007. Employees
    purchased 26.1 million shares in 2007 for $428 million
    under the 2006 Stock Purchase Plan. Employees purchased
    26.0 million shares in 2006 (19.6 million in
    2005) for $436 million ($387 million in
    2005) under the now expired 1976 Stock Participation Plan.
    As of December 29, 2007, there was $16 million in
    unrecognized compensation costs related to rights to acquire
    stock under our stock purchase plan. We expect to recognize
    those costs over a weighted average period of one month.

Note 4:
    Earnings Per Share  

We computed our basic and diluted earnings per common share as
    follows:

64

Table of Contents   

INTEL
    CORPORATION 
    NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)  

We computed our basic earnings per common share using net income
    and the weighted average number of common shares outstanding
    during the period. We computed diluted earnings per common share
    using net income and the weighted average number of common
    shares outstanding plus potentially dilutive common shares
    outstanding during the period. Potentially dilutive common
    shares include the assumed exercise of outstanding stock
    options, assumed vesting of outstanding restricted stock units,
    assumed issuance of stock under the stock purchase plan using
    the treasury stock method, and the assumed conversion of debt
    using the if-converted method.

For 2007, we excluded 417 million outstanding weighted
    average stock options (693 million in 2006 and
    372 million in 2005) from the calculation of diluted
    earnings per common share because the exercise prices of these
    stock options were greater than or equal to the average market
    value of the common shares. These options could be included in
    the calculation in the future if the average market value of the
    common shares increases and is greater than the exercise price
    of these options.

Note 5:
    Common Stock Repurchases  

Common
    Stock Repurchase Program   

We have an ongoing authorization, amended in November 2005, from
    our Board of Directors to repurchase up to $25 billion in
    shares of our common stock in open market or negotiated
    transactions. During 2007, we repurchased 111 million
    shares of common stock at a cost of $2.75 billion
    (226 million shares at a cost of $4.6 billion during
    2006 and 418 million shares at a cost of $10.6 billion
    during 2005). We have repurchased and retired 2.9 billion
    shares at a cost of approximately $60 billion since the
    program began in 1990. As of December 29, 2007,
    $14.5 billion remained available for repurchase under the
    existing repurchase authorization.

Restricted Stock Unit Withholdings  

We issue restricted stock units as part of our equity incentive
    plans, which are described more fully in  Note 3:
    Employee Equity Incentive Plans.  For the majority of
    restricted stock units granted, the number of shares issued on
    the date the restricted stock units vest is net of the statutory
    withholding requirements that we pay on behalf of our employees.
    During 2007, we withheld 1.7 million shares to satisfy
    $38 million of employees  tax obligations. We paid
    this amount in cash to the appropriate taxing authorities.
    Although shares withheld are not issued, they are treated as
    common stock repurchases for accounting and disclosure purposes,
    as they reduce the number of shares that would have been issued
    upon vesting.

Note 6:
    Borrowings  

Short-Term
    Debt   

Short-term debt included non-interest-bearing drafts payable of
    $140 million and the current portion of long-term debt of
    $2 million as of December 29, 2007 (drafts payable of
    $178 million and the current portion of long-term debt of
    $2 million as of December 30, 2006). We also have the
    ability to borrow under our commercial paper program, which has
    a pre-authorized limit of up to $3.0 billion. There were no
    borrowings under our commercial paper program during 2007 and
    2006. Our commercial paper was rated
     A-1+  by
    Standard   Poor s and
     P-1  by
    Moody s as of December 29, 2007.

65

Table of Contents   

INTEL
    CORPORATION 
    NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)  

Long-Term
    Debt   

Our long-term debt at fiscal year-ends was as follows:

In 2005, we issued $1.6 billion of 2.95% junior
    subordinated convertible debentures (the debentures) due 2035.
    The debentures are convertible, subject to certain conditions,
    into shares of our common stock at an initial conversion rate of
    31.7162 shares of common stock per $1,000 principal amount
    of debentures, representing an initial effective conversion
    price of approximately $31.53 per share of common stock. Holders
    can surrender the debentures for conversion at any time. The
    conversion rate will be subject to adjustment for certain events
    outlined in the indenture governing the debentures, but will not
    be adjusted for accrued interest. In addition, the conversion
    rate will increase for a holder who elects to convert the
    debentures in connection with certain share exchanges, mergers,
    or consolidations involving Intel, as described in the indenture
    governing the debentures. The debentures, which pay a fixed rate
    of interest semiannually, have a contingent interest component
    that will require us to pay interest based on certain thresholds
    and for certain events commencing on December 15, 2010, as
    outlined in the indenture. The maximum amount of contingent
    interest that will accrue is 0.40% per year. The fair value of
    the related embedded derivative was not significant as of
    December 29, 2007 or December 30, 2006.

We can settle any conversion or repurchase of the debentures in
    cash or stock at our option. On or after December 15, 2012,
    we can redeem, for cash, all or part of the debentures for the
    principal amount, plus any accrued and unpaid interest, if the
    closing price of Intel common stock has been at least 130% of
    the conversion price then in effect for at least 20 trading days
    during any 30 consecutive
     trading-day 
    period prior to the date on which we provide notice of
    redemption. If certain events occur in the future, the indenture
    provides that each holder of the debentures can, for a
    pre-defined period of time, require us to repurchase the
    holder s debentures for the principal amount plus any
    accrued and unpaid interest. The debentures are subordinated in
    right of payment to our existing and future senior debt and to
    the other liabilities of our subsidiaries. We concluded that the
    debentures are not conventional convertible debt instruments and
    that the embedded stock conversion option qualifies as a
    derivative under SFAS No. 133,  Accounting for
    Derivative Instruments and Hedging Activities 
    (SFAS No. 133). In addition, in accordance with
     EITF 00-19, 
     Accounting for Derivative Financial Instruments Indexed
    to, and Potentially Settled in, a Company s Own
    Stock,  we have concluded that the embedded conversion
    option would be classified in stockholders  equity if it
    were a freestanding instrument. As such, the embedded conversion
    option is not accounted for separately as a derivative.

In 2005, we guaranteed repayment of principal and interest on
    bonds issued by the Industrial Development Authority of the City
    of Chandler, Arizona, which constitutes an unsecured general
    obligation for Intel. The aggregate principal amount, including
    the premium, of the bonds issued in 2005 (2005 Arizona bonds)
    was $160 million. The bonds are due in 2035 and bear
    interest at a fixed rate of 4.375% until 2010. The 2005 Arizona
    bonds are subject to mandatory tender on November 30, 2010,
    at which time we can
     re-market 
    the bonds as either fixed-rate bonds for a specified period or
    as variable-rate bonds until their final maturity on
    December 1, 2035.

66

Table of Contents   

INTEL
    CORPORATION 
    NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)  

In 2007, we guaranteed repayment of principal and interest on
    bonds issued by the Industrial Development Authority of the City
    of Chandler, Arizona, which constitute an unsecured general
    obligation for Intel. The aggregate principal amount of the
    bonds issued in December 2007 (2007 Arizona bonds) is
    $125 million due in 2037, and the bonds bear interest at a
    fixed rate of 5.3%. The 2007 Arizona bonds are subject to
    mandatory tender, at our option, on any interest payment date
    beginning on or after December 1, 2012 until their final
    maturity on December 1, 2037. Upon such tender, we can
    re-market the bonds as either fixed-rate bonds for a specified
    period or as variable-rate bonds until their final maturity. We
    also entered into an interest rate swap agreement, from a fixed
    rate to a floating
     LIBOR-based 
    return. At the beginning of the first quarter of 2008, we
    elected the provisions of SFAS No. 159, and we will
    record the 2007 Arizona bonds at fair value at each
    reporting date. As a result, changes in the fair value of this
    debt will be primarily offset by changes in the fair value of
    the interest rate swap, without the need to apply the hedge
    accounting provisions of SFAS No. 133.

We have euro borrowings, which we made in connection with
    financing manufacturing facilities and equipment in Ireland. We
    have invested the proceeds in euro-denominated loan
    participation notes of similar maturity to reduce currency and
    interest rate exposures. During 2006, we retired approximately
    $300 million in euro borrowings prior to their maturity
    dates through the simultaneous settlement of an equivalent
    amount of investments in loan participation notes.

At December 29, 2007, our aggregate debt maturities were as
    follows (in millions):

Note 7:
    Investments  

Trading
    Assets   

Trading assets outstanding at fiscal year-ends were as follows:

We designate floating-rate securitized financial instruments,
    such as asset-backed securities, that we purchased after
    December 30, 2006 as trading assets. As of
    December 29, 2007, the estimated fair value of these
    securitized financial instruments was $926 million.

Net gains on marketable debt instruments that we classified as
    trading assets held at the reporting date were $19 million
    in 2007 (gains of $31 million in 2006 and losses of
    $47 million in 2005). Net losses on the related derivatives
    were $37 million in 2007 (losses of $22 million in
    2006 and gains of $52 million in 2005). Certain equity
    securities within the trading assets portfolio are maintained to
    generate returns that seek to offset changes in liabilities
    related to the equity market risk of certain deferred
    compensation arrangements. These deferred compensation
    liabilities were $483 million in 2007 ($416 million in
    2006), and are included in other accrued liabilities. Net gains
    on equity securities offsetting deferred compensation
    arrangements still held at the reporting date were
    $28 million in 2007 ($45 million in 2006 and
    $15 million in 2005).

67

Table of Contents   

INTEL
    CORPORATION 
    NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)  

Available-for-Sale
    Investments   

Available-for-sale investments at December 29, 2007 and
    December 30, 2006 were as follows:

In 2007, we invested $218.5 million in VMware, Inc., a
    publicly traded company, in exchange for 9.5 million shares
    of their common stock. Our investment is recorded in marketable
    equity securities at a fair value of $794 million as of
    December 29, 2007, based on the quoted closing stock price
    on December 28, 2007.

We sold available-for-sale investments for proceeds of
    approximately $1.7 billion in 2007. The gross realized
    gains on these sales totaled $138 million. The realized
    gains on third-party merger transactions were insignificant
    during 2007. The recognized impairment losses on
    available-for-sale investments as well as gross realized losses
    on sales were insignificant during 2007.

68

Table of Contents   

INTEL
    CORPORATION 
    NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)  

We sold available-for sale investments for proceeds of
    approximately $2.0 billion in 2006 and $1.7 billion in
    2005. The gross realized gains on these sales totaled
    $135 million in 2006 and $96 million in 2005. The gain
    in 2006 included a gain of $103 million from the sale of a
    portion of our investment in Micron Technology, Inc. We
    recognized insignificant impairment losses on available-for-sale
    investments in 2006 and $105 million in 2005. The
    impairment in 2005 represented a charge of $105 million on
    our investment in Micron reflecting the difference between the
    cost basis of the investment and the price of Micron s
    stock at the end of the second quarter of 2005. We realized
    gains on third-party merger transactions of $79 million
    during 2006 and an insignificant amount in 2005. Gross realized
    losses on sales were insignificant during 2006 and 2005.

The investments in an unrealized loss position as of
    December 29, 2007 were as follows:

As of December 29, 2007, the duration of the unrealized
    losses for the majority of the floating rate notes, asset-backed
    securities purchased prior to 2007, and corporate bonds was less
    than six months. These unrealized losses represented an
    insignificant amount in relation to our total available-for-sale
    portfolio. Substantially all of our unrealized losses can be
    attributed to fair value fluctuations in an unstable credit
    environment. As of December 29, 2007, all of our
    investments in asset-backed securities were rated AAA/Aaa, and
    the substantial majority of the investments in floating rate
    notes and corporate bonds in an unrealized loss position were
    rated AA/Aa2 or better. Our portfolio includes $1.8 billion
    of asset-backed securities collateralized by first-lien
    mortgages, credit card debt, student loans, and auto loans. We
    have the intent and ability to hold our debt investments for a
    sufficient period of time to allow for recovery of the principal
    amounts invested.

The $50 million of unrealized loss for marketable equity
    securities was attributed to the fair value decline in our
    investment in Micron. As of December 29, 2007, Micron had
    been trading at levels below our cost basis for less than two
    months, as its stock price has been impacted by weakened DRAM
    and NAND market segments. An oversupply within the DRAM and NAND
    market segments contributed to weakening average selling prices
    within these highly competitive market segments. We believe that
    the market segments will recover within a reasonable period
    given past cyclical patterns, and we have the intent and ability
    to hold our investment in Micron for a sufficient period of time
    to allow for recovery.

We believe that the unrealized losses in all of the above
    investments are temporary and that these losses do not represent
    a need for an
     other-than-temporary 
    impairment, based on our evaluation of available evidence as of
    December 29, 2007.

The investments that have been in an unrealized loss position
    for 12 months or more were not significant as of
    December 29, 2007. In 2006, investments in an unrealized
    loss position were not significant.

69

Table of Contents   

INTEL
    CORPORATION 
    NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)  

The amortized cost and estimated fair value of
    available-for-sale and loan participation investments in debt
    instruments at December 29, 2007, by contractual maturity,
    were as follows:

Instruments not due at a single maturity date include
    asset-backed securities that we purchased prior to fiscal 2007,
    and money market fund deposits.

Non-Marketable
    and Other Equity Investments   

Non-marketable and other equity investments are included in
    other long-term assets. Non-marketable and other equity
    investments at December 29, 2007 and December 30, 2006
    were as follows:

As of December 29, 2007, our non-marketable equity method
    investments primarily consisted of our investment in IM Flash
    Technologies, LLC (IMFT). See  Note 19: Ventures 
    for further discussion on IMFT. As of December 30, 2006,
    our non-marketable equity method investments primarily consisted
    of our investments in IMFT and Clearwire Corporation.

As of December 29, 2007, our marketable equity method
    investment consisted of our investment in Clearwire in which we
    hold an ownership interest of 22% (27% as of December 30,
    2006). In March 2007, Clearwire completed an initial public
    offering and is publicly traded on The NASDAQ Global Select
    Market*. Based on the quoted closing stock price as of
    December 28, 2007, the fair value of our ownership interest
    in Clearwire was $522 million; however, since we account
    for our investment under the equity method, we do not carry the
    investment at fair value. We record our proportionate share of
    Clearwire s net income (loss) on a one-quarter lag.

As of December 29, 2007, the carrying value of our
    investment in Clearwire exceeded our share of the book value of
    Clearwire s assets by $213 million. Of this amount,
    $108 million is considered equity method goodwill and is
    not amortized in accordance with SFAS No. 142,
     Goodwill and Other Intangible Assets,  and APB
    Opinion No. 18,  The Equity Method of Accounting for
    Investments in Common Stock.  The remaining
    $105 million represents our share of the difference between
    fair value and book value for Clearwire s net assets, of
    which $48 million is being amortized with a weighted
    average remaining life of approximately 18 years, and
    $57 million is not being amortized as these assets have an
    indefinite useful life. There were no impairment charges related
    to our investment in Clearwire in 2007 or 2006.

We recognized impairment losses on non-marketable equity
    investments of $120 million in 2007 ($79 million in
    2006 and $103 million in 2005).

70

Table of Contents   

INTEL
    CORPORATION 
    NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)  

Note 8:
    Concentrations of Credit Risk  

Financial instruments that potentially subject us to
    concentrations of credit risk consist principally of investments
    in debt instruments, derivative financial instruments, and trade
    receivables. We also enter into master netting arrangements with
    counterparties when possible to mitigate credit risk. A master
    netting arrangement allows amounts owed by each counterparty
    from separate transactions to be net settled.

We generally place investments with high-credit-quality
    counterparties and, by policy, limit the amount of credit
    exposure to any one counterparty based on our periodic analysis
    of that counterparty s relative credit standing.
    Substantially all of our investments in debt instruments are
    with A/A2 or better rated issuers, and the substantial majority
    are with AA/Aa2 or better. In addition to requiring all
    investments with original maturities of up to six months to be
    rated at least
     A-1/P-1  by
    Standard   Poors/Moody s, our investment policy
    specifies a higher minimum rating for investments with longer
    maturities. For instance, investments with maturities beyond
    three years require a minimum rating of AA-/Aa3. Government
    regulations imposed on investment alternatives of our
     non-U.S. subsidiaries, 
    or the absence of A rated counterparties in certain countries,
    result in some minor exceptions, which are reviewed annually by
    the Finance Committee of our Board of Directors. Credit rating
    criteria for derivative instruments are similar to those for
    investments. The amounts subject to credit risk related to
    derivative instruments are generally limited to the amounts, if
    any, by which a counterparty s obligations exceed our
    obligations with that counterparty. At December 29, 2007,
    the total credit exposure to any single counterparty did not
    exceed $500 million. We obtain and secure available
    collateral from counterparties against obligations, including
    securities lending transactions, when deemed appropriate.

A substantial majority of our trade receivables are derived from
    sales to original equipment manufacturers and original design
    manufacturers of computer systems, handheld devices, and
    networking and communications equipment. We also have accounts
    receivable derived from sales to industrial and retail
    distributors. Our two largest customers accounted for 35% of net
    revenue for 2007, 2006, and 2005. Additionally, these two
    largest customers accounted for 35% of our accounts receivable
    at December 29, 2007 and December 30, 2006. We believe
    that the receivable balances from these largest customers do not
    represent a significant credit risk based on cash flow
    forecasts, balance sheet analysis, and past collection
    experience.

We have adopted credit policies and standards intended to
    accommodate industry growth and inherent risk. We believe that
    credit risks are moderated by the financial stability of our
    customers and diverse geographic sales areas. We assess credit
    risk through quantitative and qualitative analysis, and from
    this analysis, we establish credit limits and determine whether
    we will seek to use one or more credit support devices, such as
    obtaining some form of third-party guaranty or standby letter of
    credit, or obtaining credit insurance for all or a portion of
    the account balance if necessary.

Note 9:
    Gains (Losses) on Equity Investments, Net  

Gains (losses) on equity investments, net for the three years
    ended December 29, 2007 were as follows:

During 2007, we received approximately $110 million of
    dividend income from one of our investments, included in the
    table above under  other, net.  Also included in this
    category are our equity method losses, primarily from our
    investment in Clearwire.

During 2006, the gains on sales of equity investments included
    the gain of $103 million on the sale of a portion of our
    investment in Micron, which was sold for $275 million.
    During 2005, the impairment charges of $208 million
    included a $105 million impairment charge on our investment
    in Micron.

71

Table of Contents   

INTEL
    CORPORATION 
    NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)  

Note 10:
    Interest and Other, Net  

The components of interest and other, net were as follows:

During 2006, we realized gains of $612 million for three
    completed divestitures, included within  other, net 
    in the table above. See  Note 13: Divestitures 
    for further discussion.

Note 11:
    Comprehensive Income  

The components of total comprehensive income were as follows:

The components of other comprehensive income (loss) and related
    tax effects were as follows:

72

Table of Contents   

INTEL
    CORPORATION 
    NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)  

The components of accumulated other comprehensive income (loss),
    net of tax, were as follows:

In the table above, accumulated net unrealized holding gain on
    available-for-sale investments included $364 million as of
    December 29, 2007 related to our investment in VMware, net
    of tax of $212 million.

For 2007, we reclassified $39 million of net deferred
    holding gains on derivatives from accumulated other
    comprehensive income (loss) to cost of sales and operating
    expenses related to our
     non-U.S.-currency 
    capital purchase and operating cost hedging programs (losses of
    $6 million in 2006 and gains of $38 million in 2005).
    We estimate that we will reclassify less than $45 million
    of net derivative gains included in other accumulated
    comprehensive income (loss) into earnings within the next
    12 months. For all periods presented, the portion of
    hedging instruments  gains or losses excluded from the
    assessment of effectiveness and the ineffective portions of
    hedges had an insignificant impact on earnings for cash flow
    hedges. Additionally, for all periods presented, there was no
    significant impact on results of operations from discontinued
    cash flow hedges as a result of forecasted transactions that did
    not occur.

The estimated net prior service cost, actuarial loss, and
    transition obligation for the defined benefit plan that will be
    amortized from accumulated other comprehensive income (loss)
    into net periodic benefit cost during fiscal year 2008 are
    $4 million, $9 million, and zero, respectively.

We recorded the adjustment for initially applying
    SFAS No. 158,  Employers  Accounting for
    Defined Benefit Pension and Other Postretirement Plans an
    amendment of FASB Statements No. 87, 88, 106, and
    132(R)  (SFAS No. 158) in 2006, net of tax,
    to accumulated other comprehensive income (loss) for
    $210 million as of December 30, 2006. See
     Note 18: Retirement Benefit Plans. 

Note 12:
    Acquisitions  

Consideration for acquisitions that qualify as business
    combinations includes the cash paid and the value of any options
    assumed, less any cash acquired, and excludes contingent
    employee compensation payable in cash and any debt assumed.
    During 2007, we completed one acquisition qualifying as a
    business combination in exchange for aggregate net cash
    consideration of $76 million, plus certain liabilities. We
    allocated a substantial majority of this consideration to
    goodwill. The acquired business and related goodwill was
    recorded within the all other category for segment reporting
    purposes. During 2006, we did not complete any acquisitions
    qualifying as business combinations. During 2005, we completed
    three acquisitions qualifying as business combinations in
    exchange for aggregate net cash consideration of
    $177 million, plus certain liabilities. We allocated most
    of this consideration to goodwill. The acquired businesses and
    related goodwill were recorded within the all other category for
    segment reporting purposes.

Note 13:
    Divestitures  

In September 2006, we completed the divestiture of our media and
    signaling business and associated assets that were included in
    the Digital Enterprise Group operating segment. We received
    $75 million in cash consideration. Approximately
    375 employees of our media and signaling business became
    employees of the acquiring company. As a result of this
    divestiture, we recorded a reduction of goodwill for
    $4 million. Additionally, we recorded a net gain of
    $52 million within interest and other, net.

73

Table of Contents   

INTEL
    CORPORATION 
    NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)  

In September 2006, we completed the divestiture of certain
    product lines and associated assets of our optical networking
    components business that were included in the Digital Enterprise
    Group operating segment. Consideration for the divestiture was
    $115 million, including $86 million in cash, and
    shares of the acquiring company with an estimated value of
    $29 million. Approximately 55 employees of our optical
    networking components business became employees of the acquiring
    company. As a result of this divestiture, we recorded a
    reduction of goodwill of $6 million. Additionally, we
    recorded a net gain of $77 million within interest and
    other, net.

In November 2006, we completed the divestiture of certain assets
    of our communications and application processor business to
    Marvell Technology Group, Ltd. for a cash purchase price of
    $600 million, plus the assumption of certain liabilities.
    We included the operating results associated with the divested
    assets of our communications and application processor business
    in the Mobility Group operating segment. Intel and Marvell also
    entered into an agreement whereby we provided certain
    manufacturing and transition services to Marvell. Approximately
    1,300 employees of our communications and application
    processor business, involved in a variety of functions including
    engineering, product testing and validation, operations, and
    marketing, became employees of Marvell. As a result of this
    divestiture, we recorded a reduction of goodwill of
    $2 million. Additionally, we recorded a net gain of
    $483 million within interest and other, net.

In May 2007, we announced that we entered into an agreement to
    form a private, independent semiconductor company with
    STMicroelectronics N.V. and Francisco Partners L.P. The new
    company, named Numonyx, is expected to supply flash memory
    solutions for wireless communications, consumer devices, and
    other applications. We expect to exchange certain NOR flash
    memory assets and certain assets associated with our phase
    change memory initiatives with Numonyx for a 45.1% ownership
    interest. STMicroelectronics is expected to sell certain assets
    and obtain a 48.6% ownership interest. Francisco Partners is
    expected to contribute $150 million for a 6.3% ownership
    interest. We expect to enter into supply and transition service
    agreements to provide products, services, and support to Numonyx
    following the close of the transaction.

As of December 29, 2007, approximately $690 million of
    NOR flash memory assets were classified as held for sale within
    other current assets. The disposal group consisted primarily of
    property, plant and equipment and inventory. We ceased recording
    depreciation on property, plant and equipment that we classified
    as held for sale beginning in the second quarter of 2007. In the
    fourth quarter of 2007, we recorded asset impairment charges of
    $85 million related to assets expected to be exchanged in
    this divestiture. See  Note 16: Restructuring and
    Asset Impairment Charges  for additional information.

Subject to satisfaction of the closing conditions, we expect the
    transaction to close by the end of the first quarter of 2008.
    Should the transaction not close, we could incur additional
    costs such as recapture of the suspended depreciation.

Note 14:
    Identified Intangible Assets  

We classify identified intangible assets within other long-term
    assets. Identified intangible assets consisted of the following
    as of December 29, 2007:

During 2007, we acquired intellectual property assets for
    $170 million with a weighted average life of 11 years.
    The majority of the intellectual property assets acquired
    represent the fair value of assets capitalized as a result of a
    settlement agreement with Transmeta Corporation. Pursuant to the
    agreement, we agreed to pay Transmeta a total of
    $250 million in exchange for a technology license and other
    consideration (see  Note 21: Contingencies ). The
    present value of the settlement was $236 million, of which
    $113 million was charged to cost of sales. The charge to
    cost of sales related to the portion of the license attributable
    to certain product sales through the third quarter of 2007. The
    remaining $123 million represented the value of the
    intellectual property assets capitalized and is being amortized
    to cost of sales over the assets  remaining useful lives.

74

Table of Contents   

INTEL
    CORPORATION 
    NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)  

During 2007, we acquired acquisition-related developed
    technology for $15 million with a weighted average life of
    four years, and recorded other intangible assets of
    $40 million with a weighted average life of four years.

Identified intangible assets consisted of the following as of
    December 30, 2006:

During 2006, we acquired intellectual property assets for
    $293 million with a weighted average life of seven years.
    Additionally, during 2006, there were $300 million in
    additions to other intangible assets with a weighted average
    life of four years.

All of our identified intangible assets are subject to
    amortization. We recorded the amortization of identified
    intangible assets on the consolidated statements of income as
    follows: intellectual property assets generally in cost of
    sales, acquisition-related developed technology in amortization
    of acquisition-related intangibles and costs, and other
    intangible assets as either a reduction of revenue or
    amortization of acquisition-related intangibles and costs. The
    amortization expense for the three years ended December 29,
    2007 were as follows:

Based on identified intangible assets recorded at
    December 29, 2007, and assuming that the underlying assets
    are not impaired in the future, we expect amortization expense
    for each period to be as follows:

Note 15:
    Goodwill  

Goodwill activity attributed to reportable operating segments
    for the years ended December 29, 2007 and December 30,
    2006 was as follows:

75

Table of Contents   

INTEL
    CORPORATION 
    NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)  

During 2007, we completed one acquisition that resulted in
    goodwill of $60 million. See  Note 12:
    Acquisitions  for further discussion. During 2006, we
    completed three divestitures that resulted in a reduction of
    $12 million in goodwill. See  Note 13:
    Divestitures  for further discussion.

We concluded that goodwill was not impaired during 2007, 2006,
    and 2005.

Note 16:
    Restructuring and Asset Impairment Charges  

In the third quarter of 2006, management approved several
    actions that were recommended by our structure and efficiency
    task force as part of a restructuring plan designed to improve
    operational efficiency and financial results. Some of these
    activities involve cost savings or other actions that do not
    result in restructuring charges, such as better utilization of
    assets, reduced spending, and organizational efficiencies. The
    efficiency program includes headcount targets for various groups
    within the company, and these targets are being met through
    ongoing employee attrition and terminations. In addition,
    business divestitures further reduce our headcount.

Restructuring and asset impairment charges for the three years
    ended December 29, 2007 were as follows:

During 2006, we completed the divestiture of three businesses
    concurrently with the ongoing execution of the efficiency
    program. See  Note 13: Divestitures  for further
    discussion. In connection with the divestiture of certain assets
    of our communications and application processor business, we
    recorded impairment charges of $103 million related to the
    write-down of manufacturing tools to their fair value, less the
    cost to dispose of the assets. We determined the fair value
    using a market-based valuation technique. In addition, as a
    result of both this divestiture and a subsequent assessment of
    our worldwide manufacturing capacity operations, we placed for
    sale the fabrication facility in Colorado Springs, Colorado.
    This plan resulted in an impairment charge of $214 million
    to write down to fair value the land, building, and equipment
    asset grouping that has been principally used to support our
    communications and application processor business. We determined
    the fair market value of the asset grouping using an average of
    the results from using the cost approach and market approach
    valuation techniques.

During 2007, we incurred an additional $54 million in asset
    impairment charges as a result of softer than anticipated market
    conditions related to the Colorado Springs facility. Also, we
    recorded land and building write-downs related to certain
    facilities in Santa Clara, California. In addition, during the
    fourth quarter we incurred $85 million in asset impairment
    charges related to the anticipated divestiture of our NOR flash
    memory business. The impairment charges were determined using
    the revised fair value, less selling costs, that we expected to
    receive upon completion of the divestiture. See
     Note 13: Divestitures  for further information
    on this divestiture, which is expected to be completed during
    the first quarter of 2008.

76

Table of Contents   

INTEL
    CORPORATION 
    NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)  

The following table summarizes the restructuring and asset
    impairment activity for 2006 and 2007:

We recorded the additional accruals, net of adjustments, as
    restructuring and asset impairment charges on the consolidated
    statements of income. The remaining accrual as of
    December 29, 2007 was related to severance benefits that we
    recorded as a current liability within accrued compensation and
    benefits.

From the third quarter of 2006 through the fourth quarter of
    2007, we incurred a total of $1.1 billion in restructuring
    and asset impairment charges related to this plan. These charges
    include a total of $527 million related to employee
    severance and benefit arrangements due to the termination of
    approximately 9,900 employees, and $544 million in asset
    impairment charges. We may incur additional restructuring
    charges in the future for employee severance and benefit
    arrangements, and facility-related or other exit activities.

Note 17:
    Taxes  

Income before taxes and the provision for taxes consisted of the
    following:

77

Table of Contents   

INTEL
    CORPORATION 
    NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)  

The difference between the tax provision at the statutory
    federal income tax rate and the tax provision as a percentage of
    income before income taxes was as follows:

During 2007, the tax benefit that we realized for the tax
    deduction from option exercises and other awards totaled
    $265 million ($139 million in 2006 and
    $351 million in 2005).

The American Jobs Creation Act of 2004 (the Jobs Act) created a
    temporary incentive for U.S. corporations to repatriate
    accumulated income earned abroad by providing an 85%
    dividends-received deduction for certain dividends from
    controlled
     non-U.S. 
    corporations. During 2005, our Chief Executive Officer and Board
    of Directors approved a domestic reinvestment plan under which
    we repatriated $6.2 billion in earnings outside the U.S.
    pursuant to the Jobs Act. We recorded additional tax expense in
    2005 of approximately $265 million related to this decision
    to repatriate
     non-U.S. 
    earnings.

78

Table of Contents   

INTEL
    CORPORATION 
    NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)  

Deferred income taxes reflect the net tax effects of temporary
    differences between the carrying amount of assets and
    liabilities for financial reporting purposes and the amounts for
    income tax purposes. Significant components of our deferred tax
    assets and liabilities at fiscal
     year-ends 
    were as follows:

1   

Included within other accrued liabilities on the consolidated
    balance sheets.  

2   

Included within other long-term assets on the consolidated
    balance sheets.  

We had state tax credits of $155 million at
    December 29, 2007 that will expire between 2009 and 2020.
    The net deferred tax asset valuation allowance was
    $133 million at December 29, 2007 compared to
    $87 million at December 30, 2006. The valuation
    allowance is based on our assessment that it is more likely than
    not that certain deferred tax assets will not be realized in the
    foreseeable future. The valuation allowance is composed of
    unrealized state capital loss carry forwards and unrealized
    state credit carry forwards of $91 million, and operating
    loss of
     non-U.S. 
    subsidiaries of $42 million.

As of December 29, 2007, U.S. income taxes were not
    provided for on a cumulative total of approximately
    $6.3 billion of undistributed earnings for certain
     non-U.S. 
    subsidiaries. Determination of the amount of unrecognized
    deferred tax liability for temporary differences related to
    investments in these
     non-U.S. 
    subsidiaries that are essentially permanent in duration is not
    practicable. We currently intend to reinvest those earnings in
    operations outside the U.S.

79

Table of Contents   

INTEL
    CORPORATION 
    NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)  

Effective at the beginning of the first quarter of 2007, we
    adopted the provisions of FIN 48. As a result of the
    implementation of FIN 48, we reduced the liability for net
    unrecognized tax benefits by $181 million, and accounted
    for the reduction as a cumulative effect of a change in
    accounting principle that resulted in an increase to retained
    earnings of $181 million.

We have historically classified unrecognized tax benefits in
    current taxes payable. As a result of adoption of FIN 48,
    we reclassified unrecognized tax benefits to long-term income
    taxes payable. Long-term income taxes payable include uncertain
    tax positions, reduced by the associated federal deduction for
    state taxes and
     non-U.S.  tax
    credits, and may also include other long-term tax liabilities
    that are not uncertain but have not yet been paid.

The aggregate changes in the balance of gross unrecognized tax
    benefits were as follows:

(In Millions) 

Beginning balance as of December 31, 2006 (date of
    adoption) 

$ 

1,896 

Settlements and effective settlements with tax authorities and
    related remeasurements

(1,243

)

Lapse of statute of limitations

Increases in balances related to tax positions taken during
    prior periods

106

Decreases in balances related to tax positions taken during
    prior periods

(26

)

Increases in balances related to tax positions taken during
    current period

61

December 29, 2007 

$ 

794 

During 2007, the U.S. Internal Revenue Service (IRS) closed its
    examination of our tax returns for the years 1999 through 2002,
    resolving the issues related to the tax benefits for export
    sales as well as a number of other issues. Additionally, we
    reached a settlement with the IRS for years 2003 through 2005
    with respect to the tax benefits for export sales. In connection
    with the $739 million settlement with the IRS, we reversed
    long-term income taxes payable, which resulted in a
    $276 million tax benefit in 2007.

Also during 2007, we effectively settled with the IRS on several
    other matters related to the audit for the 2003 and 2004 tax
    years, despite the fact that the IRS audit for these years
    remains open. The result of effectively settling these positions
    and the process of re-evaluating, based on all available
    information and certain required remeasurements, was a reduction
    of $389 million in the balance of our gross unrecognized
    tax benefits, $155 million of which resulted in a tax
    benefit in 2007.

If the remaining balance of $794 million of unrecognized
    tax benefits at December 29, 2007 were realized in a future
    period, it would result in a tax benefit of $754 million
    and a reduction of the effective tax rate.

During all years presented, we recognized interest and penalties
    related to unrecognized tax benefits within the provision for
    taxes on the consolidated statements of income. Therefore, no
    change was necessary upon adoption of FIN 48. In 2007, we
    recognized a net benefit of $142 million, primarily due to
    the reversal of accrued interest and penalties related to the
    settlement activity described above. As of December 29,
    2007, we had $115 million, and as of the date of adoption
    we had $257 million, of accrued interest and penalties
    related to unrecognized tax benefits.

Although the timing of the resolution and/or closure on audits
    is highly uncertain, it is reasonably possible that the balance
    of gross unrecognized tax benefits could significantly change in
    the next 12 months. However, given the number of years
    remaining subject to examination and the number of matters being
    examined, we are unable to estimate the range of possible
    adjustments to the balance of gross unrecognized tax benefits.

We file U.S. federal, U.S. state, and
     non-U.S.  tax
    returns. For U.S. state and
     non-U.S.  tax
    returns, we are generally no longer subject to tax examinations
    for years prior to 1996. For U.S. federal tax returns, we are no
    longer subject to tax examination for years prior to 2003.

80

Table of Contents   

INTEL
    CORPORATION 
    NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)  

Note 18:
    Retirement Benefit Plans  

Profit
    Sharing Plans   

We provide tax-qualified profit sharing retirement plans for the
    benefit of eligible employees, former employees, and retirees in
    the U.S. and certain other countries. The plans are designed to
    provide employees with an accumulation of funds for retirement
    on a tax-deferred basis and provide for annual discretionary
    employer contributions. Our Chief Executive Officer determines
    the amounts to be contributed to the U.S. Profit Sharing Plan
    under delegation of authority from our Board of Directors,
    pursuant to the terms of the Profit Sharing Plan. As of
    December 29, 2007, 80% of our U.S. Profit Sharing Fund was
    invested in equities and 20% was invested in fixed-income
    instruments. All assets are managed by external investment
    managers.

For the benefit of eligible U.S. employees, we also provide a
    non-tax-qualified supplemental deferred compensation plan for
    certain highly compensated employees. This plan is designed to
    permit certain discretionary employer contributions and to
    permit employee deferral of a portion of salaries in excess of
    certain tax limits and deferral of bonuses. This plan is
    unfunded.

We expensed $302 million for the qualified and
    non-qualified U.S. profit sharing retirement plans in 2007
    ($313 million in 2006 and $355 million in 2005). In
    the first quarter of 2008, we funded $296 million for the
    2007 contribution to the U.S. qualified Profit Sharing Plan and
    $9 million for the supplemental deferred compensation plan
    for certain highly compensated employees.

Contributions that we make to the U.S. Profit Sharing Plan on
    behalf of our employees vest based on the employee s years
    of service. As of December 29, 2007, employees vested after
    three years of service in 20% annual increments until the
    employee was 100% vested after seven years, or earlier if the
    employee reached age 60. We amended the U.S. Profit Sharing
    Plan vesting schedule to comply with the Pension Protection Act
    of 2006 (PPA), which requires employers to fully vest employees
    after six years of service. As a result, as of the beginning of
    2008, vesting occurs after two years of service in 20% annual
    increments until the employee is 100% vested after six years, or
    earlier if the employee reaches age 60. We also implemented
    this change in the U.S. defined-benefit plan.

Pension
    and Postretirement Benefit Plans   

Effective at the end of fiscal year 2006, we adopted the
    provisions of SFAS No. 158. SFAS No. 158
    requires that the funded status of defined-benefit
    postretirement plans be recognized on our consolidated balance
    sheets, and that changes in the funded status be reflected in
    other comprehensive income. SFAS No. 158 also requires
    that the measurement date of the plan s funded status be
    the same as our fiscal year-end. Prior to adopting the
    provisions of SFAS No. 158, the measurement date for
    all  non-U.S. 
    plans was our fiscal year-end, and the measurement date for the
    U.S. plan was November. Therefore, the change in measurement
    date had an insignificant impact on the projected benefit
    obligation and accumulated other comprehensive income (loss).
    Upon adoption of SFAS No. 158 in 2006, we recorded an
    adjustment, net of tax, of $210 million to accumulated
    other comprehensive income (loss).

U.S. Pension Benefits.  We provide a tax-qualified
    defined-benefit pension plan for the benefit of eligible
    employees and retirees in the U.S. The plan provides for a
    minimum pension benefit that is determined by a
    participant s years of service and final average
    compensation (taking into account the participant s social
    security wage base), reduced by the participant s balance
    in the U.S. Profit Sharing Plan. If the pension benefit exceeds
    the participant s balance in the U.S. Profit Sharing
    Plan, the participant will receive a combination of pension and
    profit sharing amounts equal to the pension benefit. However,
    the participant will receive only the benefit from the Profit
    Sharing Plan if that benefit is greater than the value of the
    pension benefit. If we do not continue to contribute to, or
    significantly reduce contributions to, the U.S. Profit
    Sharing Plan, the U.S. defined-benefit plan projected benefit
    obligation could increase significantly. In 2007, we amended the
    U.S. Defined Benefit Plan lump sum conversion rates, mortality
    tables, and minimum funding targets to comply with the PPA.

Non-U.S. 
    Pension Benefits.  We also provide defined-benefit
    pension plans in certain other countries. Consistent with the
    requirements of local law, we deposit funds for certain plans
    with insurance companies, third-party trustees, or into
    government-managed accounts, and/or accrue for the unfunded
    portion of the obligation. The assumptions used in calculating
    the obligation for the
     non-U.S. 
    plans depend on the local economic environment.

81

Table of Contents   

INTEL
    CORPORATION 
    NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)  

Postretirement Medical Benefits.  Upon retirement,
    eligible U.S. employees are credited with a defined dollar
    amount based on years of service. These credits can be used to
    pay all or a portion of the cost to purchase coverage in an
    Intel-sponsored medical plan. If the available credits are not
    sufficient to pay the entire cost of the coverage, the remaining
    cost is the responsibility of the retiree.

Funding Policy.  Our practice is to fund the various
    pension plans in amounts sufficient to meet the minimum
    requirements of U.S. federal laws and regulations or applicable
    local laws and regulations. Additional funding may be provided
    as deemed appropriate. The assets of the various plans are
    invested in corporate equities, corporate debt instruments,
    government securities, and other institutional arrangements. The
    portfolio of each plan depends on plan design and applicable
    local laws. Depending on the design of the plan, local customs,
    and market circumstances, the liabilities of a plan may exceed
    qualified plan assets. We accrue for all such liabilities.

Benefit
    Obligation and Plan Assets   

The changes in the benefit obligations and plan assets for the
    plans described above were as follows:

The following table summarizes the amounts recognized on the
    consolidated balance sheet as of December 29, 2007:

82

Table of Contents   

INTEL
    CORPORATION 
    NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)  

The following table summarizes the amounts recorded to
    accumulated other comprehensive income (loss) before taxes, as
    of December 29, 2007:

U.S. Pension 

Non-U.S. Pension 

Postretirement 

(In Millions) 

Benefits 

Benefits 

Medical Benefits 

Net prior service cost

$

$

$

(21

)

Net actuarial gain (loss)

(49

)

(144

)

6

Reclassification adjustment of transition obligation

(2

)

Defined benefit plans, net 

$ 

(49 

) 

$ 

(146 

) 

$ 

(15 

) 

The following table summarizes the amounts recognized on the
    consolidated balance sheet as of December 30, 2006:

Included in the aggregate data in the tables below are the
    amounts applicable to our pension plans with accumulated benefit
    obligations in excess of plan assets, as well as plans with
    projected benefit obligations in excess of plan assets. Amounts
    related to such plans were as follows:

Assumptions   

Weighted-average actuarial assumptions used to determine benefit
    obligations for the plans were as follows:

For the postretirement medical benefit plan, an increase in the
    assumed healthcare cost trend rate of one percentage point each
    year would not have a significant impact on the benefit
    obligation because the plan provides defined credits that the
    retiree can use to pay all or a portion of the cost to purchase
    medical coverage.

83

Table of Contents   

INTEL
    CORPORATION 
    NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)  

Weighted-average actuarial assumptions used to determine costs
    for the plans were as follows:

For the U.S. plan, we developed the discount rate by calculating
    the benefit payment streams by year to determine when benefit
    payments will be due. We then matched the benefit payment
    streams by year to U.S. Treasury zero coupon strips to match the
    timing and amount of the expected benefit payments. We adjusted
    the zero coupon rate by a historical credit risk spread, and
    discounted it back to the measurement date to determine the
    appropriate discount rate. For the
     non-U.S. 
    plans, we developed the discount rate by analyzing long-term
    bond rates and matching the bond maturity with the average
    duration of the pension liabilities. We consider several factors
    in developing the asset return assumptions for the U.S. and
     non-U.S. 
    plans. We analyzed rates of return relevant to the country where
    each plan is in effect and the investments applicable to the
    plan, expectations of future returns, local actuarial
    projections, and the projected rates of return from investment
    managers. The expected long-term rate of return shown for the
     non-U.S. 
    plan assets is weighted to reflect each country s relative
    portion of the
     non-U.S. 
    plan assets.

Net
    Periodic Benefit Cost   

The net periodic benefit cost for the plans included the
    following components:

U.S.
    Plan Assets   

In general, we design the investment strategy for U.S. plan
    assets to assure that the pension assets are available to pay
    benefits as they come due and to minimize market risk. When
    deemed appropriate, we may invest a portion of the fund in
    futures contracts for the purpose of acting as a temporary
    substitute for an investment in a particular equity security.
    The fund does not engage in speculative futures transactions.
    The expected long-term rate of return for the U.S. plan assets
    is 5.1%.

The asset allocation for our U.S. Pension Plan at the end of
    fiscal years 2007 and 2006, and the target allocation rate for
    2008, by asset category, are as follows:

84

Table of Contents   

INTEL
    CORPORATION 
    NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)  

Non-U.S. 
    Plan Assets   

The  non-U.S. 
    plans  investments are managed by insurance companies,
    third-party trustees, or pension funds consistent with
    regulations or market practice of the country where the assets
    are invested. The investment manager makes investment decisions
    within the guidelines set by us or local regulations.
    Performance is evaluated by comparing the actual rate of return
    to the return on other similar assets. Investments managed by
    qualified insurance companies or pension funds under standard
    contracts follow local regulations, and we are not actively
    involved in their investment strategies. In general, the
    investment strategy followed is designed to accumulate a
    diversified portfolio among markets, asset classes, or
    individual securities in order to reduce market risk and assure
    that the pension assets are available to pay benefits as they
    come due. The average expected long-term rate of return for the
     non-U.S. 
    plan assets is 6.7%.

The asset allocation for our
     non-U.S. 
    plans, excluding assets managed by qualified insurance
    companies, at the end of fiscal years 2007 and 2006, and the
    target allocation rate for 2008, by asset category, are as
    follows:

Investment assets managed by qualified insurance companies are
    invested as part of the insurance companies  general fund.
    We do not have control over the target allocation of those
    investments. Those investments made up 31% of total
     non-U.S. 
    plan assets in 2007 and 2006.

Funding
    Expectations   

Under applicable law for the U.S. Pension Plan, we are not
    required to make any contributions during 2008. We intend to
    make voluntary contributions if the plan assets are less than
    the accumulated benefit obligation at the end of the year. Our
    expected funding for the
     non-U.S. 
    plans during 2008 is approximately $64 million. We expect
    employer contributions to the postretirement medical benefits
    plan to be approximately $12 million during 2008.

Estimated
    Future Benefit Payments   

We expect the benefits to be paid through 2017 from the U.S. and
     non-U.S. 
    pension plans and other postretirement benefit plans to be
    approximately $100 million annually.

Note 19:
    Ventures  

In January 2006, Micron and Intel formed IM Flash Technologies,
    LLC (IMFT) and in February 2007 formed IM Flash Singapore, LLP
    (IMFS). We established these joint ventures to manufacture NAND
    flash memory products for Micron and Intel. We own a 49%
    interest in each of these ventures. Initial production from IMFT
    began in early 2006; IMFS is in its construction phase and has
    had no production to date. Our investments were
    $2.2 billion in IMFT and $146 million in IMFS as of
    December 29, 2007 ($1.3 billion in IMFT as of
    December 30, 2006), which represents our maximum exposure
    to loss. Our investments in these ventures are classified within
    other
     long-term 
    assets.

As part of the initial capital contribution to IMFT, we paid
    $615 million in cash and issued $581 million in
    non-interest-bearing notes. During 2006, we paid the entire
    balance of $581 million to settle the non-interest-bearing
    notes, which has been reflected as a financing activity on the
    consolidated statements of cash flows. At inception, in exchange
    for a 51% interest, Micron contributed assets valued at
    $995 million and $250 million in cash.

85

Table of Contents   

INTEL
    CORPORATION 
    NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)  

Concurrent with the formation of IMFT, we paid Micron
    $270 million for product designs that Micron developed as
    well as certain other intellectual property. We own the rights
    to all product designs and have licensed the designs to Micron.
    Micron paid Intel $40 million to license these initial
    product designs and will pay additional royalties on new product
    designs. We recorded our net investment in this technology of
    $230 million as an identified intangible asset, which we
    included in the intellectual property asset classification. The
    identified intangible asset is being amortized into cost of
    sales over its expected five-year life. Costs that Intel and
    Micron have incurred for product and process development related
    to IMFT are generally split evenly between Intel and Micron and
    are classified in R D.

Subject to certain conditions, we agreed to contribute up to
    approximately $1.4 billion for IMFT and up to approximately
    $1.7 billion for IMFS in the three years following the
    initial capital contributions. Of these amounts, as of
    December 29, 2007, our remaining commitment was
    approximately $260 million for IMFT and approximately
    $1.5 billion for IMFS. Additionally, our portion of IMFT
    costs, primarily related to product purchases and
     start-up, 
    was approximately $790 million during 2007 (approximately
    $300 million during 2006). The amount due to IMFT for
    product purchases and services provided was approximately
    $130 million as of December 29, 2007 and was not
    significant as of December 30, 2006.

IMFT and IMFS are each governed by a Board of Managers, with
    Micron and Intel initially appointing an equal number of
    managers to each of the boards. The number of managers appointed
    by each party adjusts depending on the parties  ownership
    interests. These ventures will operate until 2016, but are
    subject to prior termination under certain terms and conditions.

These joint ventures are variable interest entities as defined
    by FASB Interpretation No. 46(R),  Consolidation of
    Variable Interest Entities  (FIN 46(R)), because all
    positive and negative variances in cost structure will be passed
    on to Micron and Intel through our purchase agreements. However,
    we have determined that we are not the primary beneficiary of
    these joint ventures, and as such, we account for our interests
    using the equity method of accounting and do not consolidate
    these joint ventures. Micron and Intel are also considered
    related parties under the provisions of FIN 46(R).

We have entered into a long-term agreement with Apple, Inc. to
    supply a portion of the NAND flash memory output that we will
    purchase from IMFT through December 31, 2010. In January
    2006, Apple pre-paid Intel a refundable $250 million that
    will be applied to Apple s purchases of NAND flash memory
    beginning in 2008.

Note 20:
    Commitments  

A portion of our capital equipment and certain facilities are
    under operating leases that expire at various dates through
    2021. Additionally, portions of our land are under leases that
    expire at various dates through 2062. Rental expense was
    $154 million in 2007 ($160 million in 2006 and
    $150 million in 2005).

Minimum rental commitments under all non-cancelable leases with
    an initial term in excess of one year are payable as follows (in
    millions):

86

Table of Contents   

INTEL
    CORPORATION 
    NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)  

Commitments for construction or purchase of property, plant and
    equipment decreased from $3.3 billion at December 30,
    2006 to $2.3 billion at December 29, 2007. Other
    purchase obligations and commitments as of December 29,
    2007 totaled $1.7 billion. Other purchase obligations and
    commitments include payments due under various types of
    licenses, agreements to purchase raw material or other goods, as
    well as payments due under non-contingent funding obligations.
    Funding obligations include, for example, agreements to fund
    various projects with other companies. In addition, we have
    various contractual commitments with Micron, IMFT, and IMFS (see
     Note 19: Ventures ).

Note 21:
    Contingencies  

Tax
    Matters   

In connection with the regular examination of our tax returns
    for the years 1999 through 2005, the IRS had formally assessed
    adjustments to the amounts that we had recorded on those returns
    as a tax benefit for export sales. In 2007, we resolved these
    matters with the IRS. See  Note 17: Taxes  for
    further discussion.

Legal
    Proceedings   

We are currently a party to various legal proceedings, including
    those noted in this section. While management presently believes
    that the ultimate outcome of these proceedings, individually and
    in the aggregate, will not materially harm the company s
    financial position, cash flows, or overall trends in results of
    operations, litigation is subject to inherent uncertainties, and
    unfavorable rulings could occur. An unfavorable ruling could
    include money damages or, in cases for which injunctive relief
    is sought, an injunction prohibiting us from selling one or more
    products at all or in particular ways. Were an unfavorable
    ruling to occur, our business or results of operations could be
    materially harmed.

Advanced
    Micro Devices, Inc. (AMD) and AMD International
    Sales   Service, Ltd. v. Intel Corporation and Intel
    Kabushiki Kaisha, and Related Consumer Class Actions and
    Government Investigations  

In June 2005, AMD filed a complaint in the United States
    District Court for the District of Delaware alleging that we and
    our Japanese subsidiary engaged in various actions in violation
    of the Sherman Act and the California Business and Professions
    Code, including providing secret and discriminatory discounts
    and rebates and intentionally interfering with prospective
    business advantages of AMD. AMD s complaint seeks
    unspecified treble damages, punitive damages, an injunction, and
    attorneys  fees and costs. Subsequently, AMD s
    Japanese subsidiary also filed suits in the Tokyo High Court and
    the Tokyo District Court against our Japanese subsidiary,
    asserting violations of Japan s Antimonopoly Law and
    alleging damages in each suit of approximately $55 million,
    plus various other costs and fees. At least 83 separate class
    actions have been filed in the U.S. District Courts for the
    Northern District of California, Southern District of
    California, District of Idaho, District of Nebraska, District of
    New Mexico, District of Maine, and the District of Delaware, as
    well as in various California, Kansas, and Tennessee state
    courts. These actions generally repeat AMD s allegations
    and assert various consumer injuries, including that consumers
    in various states have been injured by paying higher prices for
    computers containing our microprocessors. All of the federal
    class actions and the Kansas and Tennessee state court class
    actions have been or will be consolidated by the Multidistrict
    Litigation Panel to the District of Delaware. All California
    class actions have been consolidated to the Superior Court of
    California in Santa Clara County. We dispute AMD s claims
    and the
     class-action 
    claims, and intend to defend the lawsuits vigorously.

We are also subject to certain antitrust regulatory inquiries.
    In 2001, the European Commission commenced an investigation
    regarding claims by AMD that we used unfair business practices
    to persuade clients to buy our microprocessors. The European
    Commission sent us a Statement of Objections in July 2007
    alleging that certain Intel marketing and pricing practices
    amounted to an abuse of a dominant position that infringed
    European law. The Statement recognized that such allegations
    were preliminary, not final, conclusions. We responded to those
    allegations in January 2008. We intend to contest this matter
    vigorously in the administrative procedure, which has now begun
    and, if necessary, in European courts. On February 12,
    2008, the European Commission initiated an inspection of
    documents at our Feldkirchen, Germany offices, and we are
    cooperating with the investigation.

87

Table of Contents   

INTEL
    CORPORATION 
    NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)  

In June 2005, we received an inquiry from the Korea Fair Trade
    Commission (KFTC) requesting documents from our Korean
    subsidiary related to marketing and rebate programs that we
    entered into with Korean PC manufacturers. In September 2007,
    the KFTC served us an Examination Report alleging that sales to
    two customers during parts of 2002 2005 violated
    Korea s Monopoly Regulation and Fair Trade Act. In December
    2007, we submitted our written response to the KFTC. We intend
    to contest this matter vigorously in the administrative
    procedure and, if necessary, in Korean courts.

In January 2008, we received a subpoena from the Attorney
    General of the State of New York requesting documents and
    information to assist in its investigation of whether there have
    been any agreements or arrangements establishing or maintaining
    a monopoly in the sale of microprocessors in violation of
    federal or New York antitrust laws.

We intend to cooperate with and respond to these investigations
    as appropriate and we expect that these matters will be
    acceptably resolved.

Barbara s
    Sales, et al. v. Intel Corporation, Gateway Inc.,
    Hewlett-Packard Company and HPDirect, Inc.  

In June 2002, various plaintiffs filed a lawsuit in the Third
    Judicial Circuit Court, Madison County, Illinois, against Intel,
    Gateway Inc., Hewlett-Packard Company, and HPDirect, Inc.
    alleging that the defendants  advertisements and statements
    misled the public by suppressing and concealing the alleged
    material fact that systems containing
    Intel   
    Pentium   
    4 processors are less powerful and slower than systems
    containing
    Intel   
    Pentium   
     III 
    processors and a competitor s microprocessors. In July
    2004, the court certified against us an Illinois-only class of
    certain end-use purchasers of certain Pentium 4 processors or
    computers containing these microprocessors. In January 2005, the
    court granted a motion filed jointly by the plaintiffs and Intel
    that stayed the proceedings in the trial court pending
    discretionary appellate review of the court s class
    certification order. In July 2006, the Illinois Appellate Court,
    Fifth District, vacated the trial court s class
    certification order. The Appellate Court instructed the trial
    court to reconsider whether California law should apply.
    However, in August 2006, the Illinois Supreme Court agreed to
    review the Appellate Court s decision. In November 2007,
    the Illinois Supreme Court issued its opinion finding in favor
    of Intel on two issues. First, on the issue of whether Illinois
    or California law applies to the claims of Illinois residents
    for goods purchased in Illinois, the Court found that Illinois
    law applies, rejecting the Appellate Court s finding of a
    nationwide class based on the application of California law.
    Second, on the issue of whether any class should be certified in
    this case at all, the Court held that no class should be
    certified, reversing the trial court s finding of an
    Illinois-only class based on Illinois law. The case has been
    remanded to the trial court.

Transmeta
    Corporation v. Intel Corporation  

In October 2006, Transmeta Corporation filed a patent
    infringement lawsuit against us in the United States District
    Court for the District of Delaware alleging that our P6, Pentium
    4,
    Pentium   
    M,
    Intel   
    Core  tm  ,
    and
    Intel   
    Core  tm  2
    processors infringed ten Transmeta patents, and subsequently
    filed an amended complaint alleging that our processors
    infringed an eleventh Transmeta patent, alleged to cover
    computer architecture and power-efficiency technologies. We
    filed counterclaims against Transmeta alleging that
    Transmeta s Crusoe*, Efficeon*, and Efficeon 2* families of
    microprocessors infringed seven of our patents. Both parties
    sought damages, treble damages, an injunction, and
    attorney s fees.

In October 2007, Intel and Transmeta agreed to settle the patent
    infringement cases between them. The agreement, which was
    finalized in January 2008, provides us and our customers with a
    broad license to all Transmeta patents and patent applications
    now existing or as may be filed during the next ten years,
    including any patent rights acquired by Transmeta. Transmeta
    also agreed to transfer certain technology to us and granted us
    a non-exclusive license to Transmeta s LongRun* and
    LongRun2* technologies and future improvements. In addition, we
    will receive a general release from all claims of any type. In
    exchange, we made an initial payment of $150 million to
    Transmeta in the first quarter of 2008 and will make five annual
    payments of $20 million beginning one year from the date of
    the settlement, for total payments of $250 million. The
    agreement also includes a covenant by us not to sue Transmeta
    for certain licensing to third parties. The court dismissed all
    litigation pending between us and Transmeta.

88

Table of Contents   

INTEL
    CORPORATION 
    NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)  

BIAX
    Corporation v. Intel Corporation and Analog Devices,
    Inc.  

In May 2005, BIAX Corporation filed a lawsuit against us and
    Analog Devices, Inc. in the United States District Court for the
    Eastern District of Texas. The complaint alleged that certain
    Hyper-Threading-enabled processors, including the
    Intel   
    Pentium   
    and
    Intel   
    Xeon   
    processors supporting Hyper-Threading Technology, and
    Itanium   
    and
    Itanium   
    2 processors, infringed four BIAX patents. The complaint sought
    unspecified damages, injunctive, and other relief, including
    enhanced damages for alleged willful infringement. In June 2007,
    the parties finalized a settlement agreement pursuant to which,
    among other terms, we made a payment to BIAX, and, in exchange,
    we received a license to BIAX s patent portfolio. In July
    2007, the lawsuit was dismissed with prejudice.

Martin
    Smilow v. Craig R. Barrett et al.   Intel
    Corporation  

On February 13, 2008, Martin Smilow, an Intel stockholder,
    filed a putative derivative action in the United States District
    Court for the District of Delaware against members of our Board
    of Directors. The complaint alleges generally that the Board
    allowed the company to violate antitrust and other laws, as
    described in AMD s antitrust lawsuits against us, and that
    those Board-sanctioned activities have harmed the company. The
    complaint repeats many of AMD s allegations and references
    various investigations by the European Community, Korean Fair
    Trade Commission, and others. We deny the allegations and intend
    to defend the lawsuit vigorously.

Note 22:
    Operating Segment and Geographic Information  

As of December 29, 2007, our operating segments included
    the Digital Enterprise Group, Mobility Group, NAND Products
    Group, Flash Memory Group, Digital Home Group, Digital Health
    Group, and Software and Solutions Group. In the fourth quarter
    of 2007, we made organizational changes that resulted in the
    formation of the NAND Products Group operating segment, which
    includes the NAND flash memory business that was previously
    included in the Flash Memory Group operating segment. The Flash
    Memory Group operating segment includes sales of NOR flash
    memory products. During the first quarter of 2008, we expect to
    complete the divestiture of our NOR flash memory assets to
    Numonyx. We expect to enter into supply and transition service
    agreements to provide products, services, and support to Numonyx
    following the close of the transaction. See  Note 13:
    Divestitures  for more information on Numonyx. Prior-period
    amounts have been adjusted retrospectively to reflect other
    minor reorganizations.

The Chief Operating Decision Maker (CODM), as defined by
    SFAS No. 131,  Disclosures about Segments of an
    Enterprise and Related Information 
    (SFAS No. 131), is our President and Chief Executive
    Officer (CEO). The CODM allocates resources to and assesses the
    performance of each operating segment using information about
    its revenue and operating income (loss) before interest and
    taxes.

We report the financial results of the following operating
    segments:

Digital Enterprise Group.  Includes microprocessors
    and related chipsets and motherboards designed for the desktop
    and enterprise computing market segments; communications
    infrastructure components such as network processors,
    communications boards, and embedded processors; wired
    connectivity devices; and products for network and server
    storage.

Mobility Group.  Includes microprocessors and related
    chipsets designed for the notebook market segment, wireless
    connectivity products, and products designed for the
    ultra-mobile market segment. In the fourth quarter of 2006, we
    completed the sale of certain assets of our communications and
    application processor business lines to Marvell. Related to the
    sale, we entered into a manufacturing and transition services
    agreement with Marvell. As a result, our sales of application
    and cellular baseband processors in 2007 were only to Marvell.

The NAND Products Group, Flash Memory Group, Digital Home Group,
    Digital Health Group, and Software and Solutions Group operating
    segments do not meet the quantitative thresholds for reportable
    segments as defined by SFAS No. 131 and are included
    within the all other category.

89

Table of Contents   

INTEL
    CORPORATION 
    NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)  

We have sales and marketing, manufacturing, finance, and
    administration groups. Expenses for these groups are generally
    allocated to the operating segments, and the expenses are
    included in the operating results reported below. Additionally,
    in the first quarter of 2007, we started including share-based
    compensation in the computation of operating income (loss) for
    each operating segment and adjusted prior results to reflect
    this change. Revenue for the all other category is primarily
    related to the sale of NOR flash memory products, NAND flash
    memory products, and microprocessors and related chipsets by the
    Digital Home Group. The all other category includes certain
     corporate-level 
    operating expenses and charges. These expenses and charges
    include:

a portion of profit-dependent bonuses and other expenses not
    allocated to the operating segments;

results of operations of seed businesses that support our
    initiatives;

acquisition-related costs, including amortization and any
    impairment of acquisition-related intangibles and goodwill;

charges for purchased IPR  and

amounts included within restructuring and asset impairment
    charges.

With the exception of goodwill, we do not identify or allocate
    assets by operating segment, nor does the CODM evaluate
    operating segments using discrete asset information. Operating
    segments do not record inter-segment revenue, and, accordingly,
    there is none to be reported. We do not allocate interest and
    other income, interest expense, or taxes to operating segments.
    Although the CODM uses operating income to evaluate the
    segments, operating costs included in one segment may benefit
    other segments. Except as discussed above, the accounting
    policies for segment reporting are the same as for Intel as a
    whole.

Operating segment net revenue and operating income (loss) for
    the three years ended December 29, 2007 were as follows:

In 2007, one customer accounted for 18% of our net revenue (19%
    in 2006 and 2005) while another customer accounted for 17%
    of our net revenue (16% in 2006 and 2005). The majority of the
    revenue from these customers was from the sale of
    microprocessors, chipsets, and other components by the Digital
    Enterprise Group and Mobility Group operating segments.

90

Table of Contents   

INTEL
    CORPORATION 
    NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)  

Geographic revenue information for the three years ended
    December 29, 2007 is based on the location of the customer.
    Revenue from unaffiliated customers by geographic region/country
    was as follows:

Revenue from unaffiliated customers outside the U.S. totaled
    $32,319 million in 2007 ($29,896 million in 2006 and
    $33,164 million in 2005).

Net property, plant and equipment by country was as follows:

Net property, plant and equipment outside the U.S. totaled
    $6,271 million in 2007 ($6,044 million in 2006 and
    $5,900 million in 2005).

91

Table of Contents   

REPORT OF
    ERNST   YOUNG LLP, INDEPENDENT REGISTERED PUBLIC
    ACCOUNTING FIRM  

The Board of Directors and Stockholders, Intel
    Corporation  

We have audited the accompanying consolidated balance sheets of
    Intel Corporation as of December 29, 2007 and
    December 30, 2006, and the related consolidated statements
    of income, stockholders  equity, and cash flows for each of
    the three years in the period ended December 29, 2007. Our
    audits also included the financial statement schedule listed in
    the Index at Part IV, Item 15. These financial
    statements and schedule are the responsibility of the
    company s management. Our responsibility is to express an
    opinion on these financial statements and schedule based on our
    audits.

We conducted our audits in accordance with the standards of the
    Public Company Accounting Oversight Board (United States). Those
    standards require that we plan and perform the audit to obtain
    reasonable assurance about whether the financial statements are
    free of material misstatement. An audit includes examining, on a
    test basis, evidence supporting the amounts and disclosures in
    the financial statements. An audit also includes assessing the
    accounting principles used and significant estimates made by
    management, as well as evaluating the overall financial
    statement presentation. We believe that our audits provide a
    reasonable basis for our opinion.

In our opinion, the financial statements referred to above
    present fairly, in all material respects, the consolidated
    financial position of Intel Corporation at December 29,
    2007 and December 30, 2006, and the consolidated results of
    its operations and its cash flows for each of the three years in
    the period ended December 29, 2007, in conformity with
    U.S. generally accepted accounting principles. Also, in our
    opinion, the related financial statement schedule, when
    considered in relation to the basic financial statements taken
    as a whole, presents fairly in all material respects the
    information set forth therein.

As discussed in Notes 2, 17 and 18 to the consolidated
    financial statements, Intel Corporation changed its method of
    accounting for sabbatical leave as of December 31, 2006,
    its method of accounting for uncertain tax positions as of
    December 31, 2006, its method of accounting for its defined
    benefit pension and other postretirement plans during 2006, and
    its method of accounting for stock-based compensation as of
    January 1, 2006.

We also have audited, in accordance with the standards of the
    Public Company Accounting Oversight Board (United States), the
    effectiveness of Intel Corporation s internal control over
    financial reporting as of December 29, 2007, based on
    criteria established in Internal Control Integrated
    Framework issued by the Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of
    the Treadway Commission and our report dated February 19,
    2008 expressed an unqualified opinion thereon.

/s/ Ernst   Young LLP

San Jose, California

February 19, 2008

92

Table of Contents   

REPORT OF
    ERNST   YOUNG LLP, INDEPENDENT REGISTERED PUBLIC
    ACCOUNTING FIRM  

The Board of Directors and Stockholders, Intel
    Corporation  

We have audited Intel Corporation s internal control over
    financial reporting as of December 29, 2007, based on
    criteria established in Internal Control Integrated
    Framework issued by the Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of
    the Treadway Commission (the COSO criteria). Intel
    Corporation s management is responsible for maintaining
    effective internal control over financial reporting, and for its
    assessment of the effectiveness of internal control over
    financial reporting included in the accompanying Management
    Report on Internal Control Over Financial Reporting. Our
    responsibility is to express an opinion on the company s
    internal control over financial reporting based on our audit.

We conducted our audit in accordance with the standards of the
    Public Company Accounting Oversight Board (United States). Those
    standards require that we plan and perform the audit to obtain
    reasonable assurance about whether effective internal control
    over financial reporting was maintained in all material
    respects. Our audit included obtaining an understanding of
    internal control over financial reporting, assessing the risk
    that a material weakness exists, testing and evaluating the
    design and operating effectiveness of internal control based on
    the assessed risk, and performing such other procedures as we
    considered necessary in the circumstances. We believe that our
    audit provides a reasonable basis for our opinion.

A company s internal control over financial reporting is a
    process designed to provide reasonable assurance regarding the
    reliability of financial reporting and the preparation of
    financial statements for external purposes in accordance with
    generally accepted accounting principles. A company s
    internal control over financial reporting includes those
    policies and procedures that (1) pertain to the maintenance
    of records that, in reasonable detail, accurately and fairly
    reflect the transactions and dispositions of the assets of the
    company; (2) provide reasonable assurance that transactions
    are recorded as necessary to permit preparation of financial
    statements in accordance with generally accepted accounting
    principles, and that receipts and expenditures of the company
    are being made only in accordance with authorizations of
    management and directors of the company; and (3) provide
    reasonable assurance regarding prevention or timely detection of
    unauthorized acquisition, use, or disposition of the
    company s assets that could have a material effect on the
    financial statements.

Because of its inherent limitations, internal control over
    financial reporting may not prevent or detect misstatements.
    Also, projections of any evaluation of effectiveness to future
    periods are subject to the risk that controls may become
    inadequate because of changes in conditions, or that the degree
    of compliance with the policies or procedures may deteriorate.

In our opinion, Intel Corporation maintained, in all material
    respects, effective internal control over financial reporting as
    of December 29, 2007, based on the COSO criteria.

We also have audited, in accordance with the standards of the
    Public Company Accounting Oversight Board (United States), the
    2007 consolidated financial statements of Intel Corporation and
    our report dated February 19, 2008 expressed an unqualified
    opinion thereon.

/s/ Ernst   Young LLP

San Jose, California

February 19, 2008

93

Table of Contents   

INTEL
    CORPORATION 
    FINANCIAL INFORMATION BY QUARTER (UNAUDITED)  

1   

In connection with IRS settlements reached in 2007, we
    recorded a $326 million tax benefit (including
    $50 million of accrued interest) in the first quarter of
    2007 and a $155 million tax benefit in the second quarter
    of 2007. For further information, see  Note 17:
    Taxes  in the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements.
    We did not have any significant settlements and related tax
    benefits in the third and fourth quarters of 2007.  

2   

Intel s common stock (symbol INTC) trades on The NASDAQ
    Global Select Market* and is quoted in the  Wall Street
    Journal  and other newspapers. Intel s common stock also
    trades on The Swiss Exchange. At December 29, 2007, there
    were approximately 185,000 registered holders of common stock.
    All stock prices are closing prices per The NASDAQ Global Select
    Market.  

94

Table of Contents   

ITEM 9.   

CHANGES
    IN AND DISAGREEMENTS WITH ACCOUNTANTS ON ACCOUNTING AND
    FINANCIAL DISCLOSURE  

Not applicable.

ITEM 9A.   

CONTROLS
    AND PROCEDURES  

Evaluation
    of Disclosure Controls and Procedures  

Based on management s evaluation (with the participation of
    our CEO and Chief Financial Officer (CFO)), as of the end of the
    period covered by this report, our CEO and CFO have concluded
    that our disclosure controls and procedures (as defined in
     Rules 13a-15(e) 
    and
     15d-15(e) 
    under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (the
    Exchange Act)), are effective to provide reasonable assurance
    that information required to be disclosed by us in reports that
    we file or submit under the Exchange Act is recorded, processed,
    summarized, and reported within the time periods specified in
    SEC rules and forms, and is accumulated and communicated to
    management, including our principal executive officer and
    principal financial officer, as appropriate to allow timely
    decisions regarding required disclosure.

Changes
    in Internal Control Over Financial Reporting  

There were no changes to our internal control over financial
    reporting (as defined in
     Rules 13a-15(f) 
    and
     15d-15(f) 
    under the Exchange Act) that occurred during the period covered
    by this report that have materially affected, or are reasonably
    likely to materially affect, our internal control over financial
    reporting.

Management
    Report on Internal Control Over Financial Reporting  

Our management is responsible for establishing and maintaining
    adequate internal control over financial reporting (as defined
    in
     Rules 13a-15(f) 
    and
     15d-15(f) 
    under the Exchange Act) to provide reasonable assurance
    regarding the reliability of our financial reporting and the
    preparation of financial statements for external purposes in
    accordance with U.S. generally accepted accounting
    principles.

Management assessed our internal control over financial
    reporting as of December 29, 2007, the end of our fiscal
    year. Management based its assessment on criteria established in
    Internal Control Integrated Framework issued by the
    Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of the Treadway
    Commission. Management s assessment included evaluation of
    elements such as the design and operating effectiveness of key
    financial reporting controls, process documentation, accounting
    policies, and our overall control environment.

Based on our assessment, management has concluded that our
    internal control over financial reporting was effective as of
    the end of the fiscal year to provide reasonable assurance
    regarding the reliability of financial reporting and the
    preparation of financial statements for external reporting
    purposes in accordance with U.S. generally accepted
    accounting principles. We reviewed the results of
    management s assessment with the Audit Committee of our
    Board of Directors.

Our independent registered public accounting firm,
    Ernst   Young LLP, independently assessed the
    effectiveness of the company s internal control over
    financial reporting. Ernst   Young has issued an
    attestation report concurring with management s assessment,
    which is included at the end of Part II, Item 8 of
    this
     Form 10-K. 

Inherent
    Limitations on Effectiveness of Controls  

Our management, including the CEO and CFO, does not expect that
    our disclosure controls or our internal control over financial
    reporting will prevent or detect all error and all fraud. A
    control system, no matter how well designed and operated, can
    provide only reasonable, not absolute, assurance that the
    control system s objectives will be met. The design of a
    control system must reflect the fact that there are resource
    constraints, and the benefits of controls must be considered
    relative to their costs. Further, because of the inherent
    limitations in all control systems, no evaluation of controls
    can provide absolute assurance that misstatements due to error
    or fraud will not occur or that all control issues and instances
    of fraud, if any, have been detected. These inherent limitations
    include the realities that judgments in
     decision-making 
    can be faulty and that breakdowns can occur because of simple
    error or mistake. Controls can also be circumvented by the
    individual acts of some persons, by collusion of two or more
    people, or by management override of the controls. The design of
    any system of controls is based in part on certain assumptions
    about the likelihood of future events, and there can be no
    assurance that any design will succeed in achieving its stated
    goals under all potential future conditions. Projections of any
    evaluation of controls effectiveness to future periods are
    subject to risks. Over time, controls may become inadequate
    because of changes in conditions or deterioration in the degree
    of compliance with policies or procedures.

ITEM 9B.   

OTHER
    INFORMATION  

None.

95

Table of Contents   

PART III  

ITEM 10.   

DIRECTORS,
    EXECUTIVE OFFICERS AND CORPORATE GOVERNANCE  

The information in our 2008 Proxy Statement regarding Directors
    and Executive Officers appearing under the headings
     Proposal 1: Election of Directors  and
     Other Matters Section 16(a) Beneficial Ownership
    Reporting Compliance  is incorporated by reference in this
    section. The information under the heading  Executive
    Officers of the Registrant  in Part I, Item 1 of
    this
     Form 10-K 
    is also incorporated by reference in this section. In addition,
    the information under the heading  Corporate
    Governance  in our 2008 Proxy Statement is incorporated by
    reference in this section.

The Intel Code of Conduct (Code) is our code of ethics document
    applicable to all employees, including all officers, and
    including our independent directors, who are not employees of
    the company, with regard to their Intel-related activities. The
    Code incorporates our guidelines designed to deter wrongdoing
    and to promote honest and ethical conduct and compliance with
    applicable laws and regulations. The Code also incorporates our
    expectations of our employees that enable us to provide accurate
    and timely disclosure in our filings with the SEC and other
    public communications. In addition, the Code incorporates
    guidelines pertaining to topics such as complying with
    applicable laws, rules, and regulations; reporting Code
    violations; and maintaining accountability for adherence to the
    Code.

The full text of our Code is published on our Investor Relations
    web site at  www.intc.com . We intend to disclose future
    amendments to certain provisions of our Code, or waivers of such
    provisions granted to executive officers and directors, on this
    web site within four business days following the date of such
    amendment or waiver.

ITEM 11.   

EXECUTIVE
    COMPENSATION  

The information appearing in our 2008 Proxy Statement under the
    headings  Director Compensation,   Report of the
    Compensation Committee,   Compensation Discussion and
    Analysis,  and  Executive Compensation  is
    incorporated by reference in this section.

ITEM 12.   

SECURITY
    OWNERSHIP OF CERTAIN BENEFICIAL OWNERS AND MANAGEMENT AND
    RELATED STOCKHOLDER MATTERS  

The information appearing in our 2008 Proxy Statement under the
    heading  Security Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owners
    and Management  is incorporated by reference in this
    section.

96

Table of Contents   

Equity
    Compensation Plan Information  

Information as of December 29, 2007 regarding equity
    compensation plans approved and not approved by stockholders is
    summarized in the following table (shares in millions):

1   

Includes 51.1 million shares issuable upon vesting of
    restricted stock units (RSUs) that we granted under the 2006
    Equity Incentive Plan. The remaining balance consists of
    outstanding stock option grants.  

2   

The weighted average exercise price does not take into
    account the shares issuable upon vesting of outstanding RSUs,
    which have no exercise price.  

3   

Amount includes a maximum of 168 million shares that can
    be awarded as restricted stock or RSUs under the 2006 Equity
    Incentive Plan. Amount also includes 214 million shares
    available under our 2006 Stock Purchase Plan.  

4   

Consists of shares available upon exercise of options granted
    under our 1997 Stock Option Plan, which was not required to be
    approved by stockholders. The 1997 Stock Option Plan was
    terminated as to future grants in May 2004.  

5   

Total excludes 1.4 million shares issuable under
    outstanding options, with a weighted average exercise price of
    $15.98, originally granted under plans that we assumed in
    connection with acquisitions.  

The 1997 Stock Option Plan (1997 Plan) provided for the granting
    of stock options to employees other than officers and directors.
    The 1997 Plan, which was not approved by stockholders, was
    terminated as to future grants when the 2004 Equity Incentive
    Plan was approved by stockholders in May 2004. The 1997 Plan is
    administered by the Compensation Committee, which has the power
    to determine matters related to outstanding option awards under
    the 1997 Plan, including conditions of vesting and
    exercisability. Options granted under the 1997 Plan expire no
    later than 10 years from the grant date. Options granted
    before 2003 under the 1997 Plan generally vest in 5 years,
    and options granted under the 1997 Plan in 2003 and 2004
    generally vest in increments over 4 or 5 years from the
    date of grant. Grants to key employees may have delayed vesting,
    generally beginning 6 years from the date of grant.

ITEM 13.   

CERTAIN
    RELATIONSHIPS AND RELATED TRANSACTIONS, AND DIRECTOR
    INDEPENDENCE  

The information appearing in our 2008 Proxy Statement under the
    heading  Certain Relationships and Related
    Transactions  and  Corporate Governance  is
    incorporated by reference in this section.

ITEM 14.   

PRINCIPAL
    ACCOUNTING FEES AND SERVICES  

The information appearing in our 2008 Proxy Statement under the
    headings  Report of the Audit Committee  and
     Proposal 2: Ratification of Selection of Independent
    Registered Public Accounting Firm  is incorporated by
    reference in this section.

97

Table of Contents   

PART IV  

ITEM 15.   

EXHIBITS,
    FINANCIAL STATEMENT SCHEDULES  

1. Financial Statements: See  Index to Consolidated
    Financial Statements  in Part II, Item 8 of this
     Form 10-K. 

2. Financial Statement Schedule: See
     Schedule II Valuation and Qualifying
    Accounts  in this section of this
     Form 10-K. 

3. Exhibits: The exhibits listed in the accompanying index
    to exhibits are filed or incorporated by reference as part of
    this
     Form 10-K. 

Intel, the Intel logo, Intel Inside, Celeron, Intel Centrino,
    Intel Core, Intel Core Duo, Intel Core 2 Duo, Intel Core 2 Quad,
    Intel Viiv, Intel vPro, Intel Xeon, Intel XScale, Itanium,
    and Pentium are trademarks of Intel Corporation in the U.S. and
    other countries. 

*   

Other names and brands may be claimed as the property of
    others.  

98

Table of Contents   

INTEL
    CORPORATION 
    SCHEDULE II VALUATION AND QUALIFYING
    ACCOUNTS  

December 29, 2007, December 30, 2006, and
    December 31, 2005

(In Millions)

1   

Deductions represent uncollectible accounts written off, net
    of recoveries.  

99

Table of Contents   

INDEX TO
    EXHIBITS  

100

Table of Contents   

101

Table of Contents   

102

Table of Contents   

Incorporated by Reference 

Exhibit 

Filing 

Filed 

Number 

Exhibit Description 

Form 

File Number 

Exhibit 

Date 

Herewith 

23

.1

Consent of Ernst   Young LLP, Independent Registered
    Public Accounting Firm

X

31

.1

Certification of Chief Executive Officer pursuant to
     Rule 13a-14(a) 
    of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (the Exchange
    Act)

X

31

.2

Certification of Chief Financial Officer and Principal
    Accounting Officer pursuant to
     Rule 13a-14(a) 
    of the Exchange Act

X

32

.1

Certification of the Chief Executive Officer and the Chief
    Financial Officer and Principal Accounting Officer pursuant to
     Rule 13a-14(b) 
    of the Exchange Act and 18 U.S.C. Section 1350, as
    adopted pursuant to Section 906 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act
    of 2002

X

**   

Management contracts or compensation plans or arrangements in
    which directors or executive officers are eligible to
    participate.  

103

Table of Contents   

SIGNATURES  

Pursuant to the requirements of Section 13 or 15(d) of the
    Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused
    this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned,
    thereunto duly authorized.

INTEL CORPORATION

Registrant

By: 

/s/   Stacy
    J. Smith 

Stacy J. Smith

Vice President, Chief Financial Officer and

Principal Accounting Officer

February 19, 2008

Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of
    1934, this report has been signed below by the following persons
    on behalf of the Registrant and in the capacities and on the
    dates indicated.

104

<EX-4.2.3>
 2
 f36442exv4w2w3.htm
 FIRST SUPPLEMENTAL INDENTURE TO CONVERTIBLE DEBENTURES DUE 2035, DATED AS OF JULY 25, 2007

exv4w2w3 

Exhibit 4.2.3

INTEL CORPORATION, 
as Issuer,

AND

WELLS FARGO BANK, National Association, 
as Successor Trustee

FIRST SUPPLEMENTAL INDENTURE 
Dated as of July 25, 2007

2.95% Junior Subordinated Convertible Debentures due 2035

THIS FIRST SUPPLEMENTAL INDENTURE is dated as of July 25, 2007 among Intel Corporation, a
Delaware corporation, as Issuer (the   Company  ), and Wells Fargo Bank, N.A., a national banking
association, as Successor Trustee (the   Trustee  ).

RECITALS

A. Company has executed and delivered to Citibank, N.A., a national banking association (the
  Original Trustee  ) an Indenture, dated as of December 16, 2005 (the   Indenture  ), to provide for
the creation of an issue of 2.95% Junior Subordinated Convertible Debentures due 2035 (the
  Securities  ).

B. The Original Trustee has resigned and, upon the effectiveness of such resignation, the
Trustee has become its successor, as of July 25, 2007.

C. Upon the substitution of the Trustee for the Original Trustee, the Company and the Trustee
are entering into this First Supplemental Indenture.

D. The Company and the Trustee are authorized to enter into this First Supplemental Indenture
without the consent of any Holders, pursuant to Section 15.01(vii) of the Indenture.

E. The Trustee has received an Opinion of Counsel and an Officers  Certificate stating that
the execution of this First Supplemental Indenture is permitted by the Indenture and all conditions
precedent under the Indenture have been satisfied.

NOW, THEREFORE, for and in consideration of the foregoing premises, the Company, and the
Trustee mutually covenant and agree for the equal and proportionate benefit of the respective
holders from time to time of the Securities as follows:

ARTICLE 1

Section 1.01.  Amendment to Section 6.02 of the Indenture. 

Section 6.02 of the Indenture shall be amended to read in its entirety as follows:

Section 6.02.  Maintenance of Office or Agency . The Company shall maintain in the United States
of America an office or agency where Securities may be presented or surrendered for payment, where
Securities may be surrendered for registration of transfer or exchange and where notices and
demands to or upon the Company in respect of the Securities and this Indenture may be served, which
shall initially be the applicable Corporate Trust Office of the Trustee. The Company shall give
prompt written notice to the Trustee of the location, and any change in the location, of such
office or agency. If at any time the Company shall fail to maintain any such required office or
agency or shall fail to furnish the Trustee with the address thereof, such presentations,
surrenders, notices and demands may be made or served at the Corporate Trust Office of the Trustee,
and the

1 

Company hereby appoints the Trustee as its agent to receive all such presentations,
surrenders, notices and demands.

The Company may also from time to time designate one or more other offices or agencies (in or
outside the United States of America) where the Securities may be presented or surrendered for any
or all such purposes and may from time to time rescind such designations;  provided , however, that
no such designation or rescission shall in any manner relieve the Company of its obligation to
maintain an office or agency in the United States of America for such purposes. The Company shall
give prompt written notice to the Trustee of any such designation or rescission and of any change
in the location of any such other office or agency.

ARTICLE 2

Section 2.01.  Definitions. 

Capitalized terms used but not defined in this First Supplemental Indenture shall have the
meanings ascribed thereto in the Indenture.

Section 2.02.  Confirmation of Indenture .

The Indenture, as supplemented and amended by this First Supplemental Indenture, is in all
respects ratified and confirmed, and the Indenture, this First Supplemental Indenture and all
indentures supplemental thereto shall be read, taken and construed as one and the same instrument.

Section 2.03.  Concerning the Trustee. 

In carrying out the Trustee s responsibilities hereunder, the Trustee shall have all of the
rights, protections and immunities which the Trustee possesses under the Indenture. The recitals
contained herein shall be taken as the statements of the Company, and the Trustee assumes no
responsibility for their correctness. The Trustee makes no representations as to the validity or
sufficiency of this First Supplemental Indenture.

Section 2.04.  Governing Law. 

This First Supplemental Indenture shall be deemed to be a contract made under the internal
laws of the State of New York, and for all purposes shall be construed in accordance with the laws
of said State without regard to conflicts of law principles that would require the application of
any other law.

Section 2.05.  Separability. 

In case any provision of this First Supplemental Indenture shall for any reason be held to be
invalid, illegal or unenforceable, the validity, legality and enforceability of the remaining
provisions shall not in any way be affected or impaired thereby.

Section 2.06.  Counterparts. 

This First Supplemental Indenture may be executed in any number of counterparts each of which
shall be an original, but such counterparts shall together constitute but one and the same
instrument.

Section 2.07.  No Benefit. 

Nothing in this First Supplemental Indenture, express or implied, shall give to any Person
other than the parties hereto and their successors or assigns, and the holders of the Securities,
any benefit or legal or equitable rights, remedy or claim under this First Supplemental Indenture
or the Indenture.

2 

IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto have caused this First Supplemental Indenture to be
duly executed all as of the day and year first above written.

INTEL CORPORATION,  a Delaware corporation 

/s/ Ravi Jacob

Name:   
     Ravi Jacob  

Title:   
     Vice President, Finance and Enterprises
Services Group and Treasurer  

WELLS FARGO BANK, National Association  

/s/ Maddy Hall

Name:   
     Maddy Hall  

Title:   
     Assistant Vice President  

3 

</EX-4.2.3>

<EX-4.2.4>
 3
 f36442exv4w2w4.htm
 FIRST SUPPLEMENTAL INDENTURE TO OPEN-ENDED INDENTURE, DATED AS OF DECEMBER 3, 2007

exv4w2w4 

Exhibit 4.2.4 
Execution Copy

INTEL CORPORATION, 
as Issuer,

AND

WELLS FARGO BANK, National Association, 
as Successor Trustee

FIRST SUPPLEMENTAL INDENTURE 
Dated as of December 3, 2007

Debt Securities

THIS FIRST SUPPLEMENTAL INDENTURE is dated as of December 3, 2007 among Intel Corporation, a
Delaware corporation, as Issuer (the   Company  ), and Wells Fargo Bank, N.A., a national banking
association, as Successor Trustee (the   Trustee  ).

RECITALS

A. Company has executed and delivered to Citibank, N.A., a national banking association (the
  Original Trustee  ) an Indenture, dated as of March 29, 2006 (the   Indenture  ), to provide for the
issuance from time to time of its debentures, notes or other evidences of Indebtedness (the
  Securities  ), unlimited as to principal amount, to bear such rates of interest, to mature at such
time or times, to be issued in one or more series and to have such other provisions as shall be
fixed in the Indenture.

B. The Original Trustee has resigned and, upon the effectiveness of such resignation, the
Trustee has become its successor, as of December 3, 2007.

C. Upon the substitution of the Trustee for the Original Trustee, the Company and the Trustee
are entering into this First Supplemental Indenture.

D. There are no Holders of the Securities, and, accordingly, the Company and the Trustee are
authorized to enter into this First Supplemental Indenture without the consent of any Holders,
pursuant to Section 901(5) of the Indenture.

E. Pursuant to Sections 102 and 903 of the Indenture, the Trustee has received an Opinion of
Counsel and an Officers  Certificate stating that the execution of this First Supplemental
Indenture is authorized or permitted by the Indenture and all conditions precedent under the
Indenture have been satisfied.

NOW, THEREFORE, for and in consideration of the foregoing premises, the Company and the
Trustee mutually covenant and agree for the equal and proportionate benefit of the respective
holders from time to time of the Securities as follows:

ARTICLE ONE

Section 101. Amendment to Section 902(1) of the Indenture.

Section 902(1) of the Indenture shall be amended to delete the reference to  Place of Payment 
so that Section 902(1) reads in its entirety as follows:

(1) change the Stated Maturity of the principal of, or any premium or installment of interest
on or any Additional Amounts with respect to, any Security, or reduce the principal amount thereof
or the rate (or modify the calculation of such rate) of interest thereon or any Additional Amounts
with respect thereto, or any premium payable upon the redemption thereof or otherwise, or change
the obligation of the Company to pay Additional Amounts pursuant to Section 1004 (except as
contemplated by Section 801(1) and permitted by Section 901(1)), or reduce the amount of the
principal of an

1 

Original Issue Discount Security that would be due and payable upon a declaration of
acceleration of the Maturity thereof pursuant to Section 502 or the amount thereof provable in
bankruptcy pursuant to Section 504, change the redemption provisions or adversely affect the right
of repayment at the option of any Holder as contemplated by Article Thirteen, or change the
Currency in which the principal of, any premium or interest on, or any Additional Amounts with
respect to any Security is payable, or impair the right to institute suit for the enforcement of
any such payment on or after the Stated Maturity thereof (or, in the case of redemption, on or
after the Redemption Date or, in the case of repayment at the option of the Holder, on or after the
date for repayment), or 

Section 102 .  Amendment to Section 1002 of the Indenture.

Section 1002 of the Indenture shall be amended to revise the third paragraph thereof so that
Section 1002 reads in its entirety as follows:

Section 1002. Maintenance of Office or Agency.

The Company shall maintain in each Place of Payment for any series of Securities an office or
Agency where Securities of such series may be presented or surrendered for payment, where
Securities of such series may be surrendered for registration of transfer or exchange, where
Securities of such series that are convertible or exchangeable may be surrendered for conversion or
exchange, and where notices and demands to or upon the Company in respect of the Securities of such
series relating thereto and this Indenture may be served. The Company will give prompt written
notice to the Trustee of the location, and any change in the location, of such Office or Agency.
If at any time the Company shall fail to maintain any such required Office or Agency or shall fail
to furnish the Trustee with the address thereof, such presentations, surrenders, notices and
demands may be made or served at the Corporate Trust Office of the Trustee, and the Company hereby
appoints the Trustee as its agent to receive all such presentations, surrenders, notices and
demands.

The Company may also from time to time designate one or more other Offices or Agencies where
the Securities of one or more series may be presented or surrendered for any or all such purposes
and may from time to time rescind such designations; provided, however, that no such designation or
rescission shall in any manner relieve the Company of its obligation to maintain an Office or
Agency in each Place of Payment for the Securities of any series for such purposes. The Company
shall give prompt written notice to the Trustee of any such designation or rescission and any
change in the location of any such other Office or Agency.

Unless otherwise provided in or pursuant to this Indenture, the Place of Payment for each
series of Securities shall be a location in the United States of America designated by the Company,
and initially designates and appoints the Corporate Trust Office of the Trustee located at
6 th  and Marquette Avenue, Minneapolis, Minnesota, 55479, as the Office or Agency of the
Company in the United States of America for such purpose. The Company may subsequently appoint a
different Office or Agency in the United States of America for the Securities of any series.

2 

Unless otherwise specified with respect to any Securities pursuant to Section 301, if and so
long as the Securities of any series (i) are denominated in a Foreign Currency or (ii) may be
payable in a Foreign Currency, or so long as it is required under any other provision of this
Indenture, then the Company will maintain with respect to each such series of Securities, or as so
required, at least one exchange rate agent. 

ARTICLE TWO

Section 201. Definitions.

Capitalized terms used but not defined in this First Supplemental Indenture shall have the
meanings ascribed thereto in the Indenture.

Section 202. Confirmation of Indenture.

The Indenture, as supplemented and amended by this First Supplemental Indenture, is in all
respects ratified and confirmed, and the Indenture, this First Supplemental Indenture and all
indentures supplemental thereto shall be read, taken and construed as one and the same instrument.

Section 203. Concerning the Trustee.

In carrying out the Trustee s responsibilities hereunder, the Trustee shall have all of the
rights, protections and immunities which the Trustee possesses under the Indenture. The recitals
contained herein shall be taken as the statements of the Company, and the Trustee assumes no
responsibility for their correctness. The Trustee makes no representations as to the validity or
sufficiency of this First Supplemental Indenture.

Section 204. Governing Law.

This First Supplemental Indenture shall be deemed to be a contract made under the internal
laws of the State of New York, and for all purposes shall be construed in accordance with the laws
of said State without regard to conflicts of law principles that would require the application of
any other law.

Section 205. Separability.

In case any provision of this First Supplemental Indenture shall for any reason be held to be
invalid, illegal or unenforceable, the validity, legality and enforceability of the remaining
provisions shall not in any way be affected or impaired thereby.

Section 206. Counterparts.

This First Supplemental Indenture may be executed in any number of counterparts each of which
shall be an original, but such counterparts shall together constitute but one and the same
instrument.

Section 207. No Benefit.

Nothing in this First Supplemental Indenture, express or implied, shall give to any Person
other than the parties hereto and their successors or assigns, and the holders of the Securities,
any benefit or legal or equitable rights, remedy or claim under this First Supplemental Indenture
or the Indenture.

3 

IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto have caused this First Supplemental Indenture to be
duly executed all as of the day and year first above written.

INTEL CORPORATION,  a Delaware corporation 

/s/ Ravi Jacob

Name:   
     Ravi Jacob  

Title:   
     Vice President  

WELLS FARGO BANK, National Association  

/s/ Maddy Hall

Name:   
     Maddy Hall  

Title:   
     Assistant Vice President  

4 

</EX-4.2.4>

<EX-10.37>
 4
 f36442exv10w37.htm
 FIRST AMENDMENT TO THE INTEL CORPORATION SHELTERED EMPLOYEE RETIREMENT PLAN PLUS, EXECUTED NOVEMBER 6, 2007

exv10w37 

Exhibit 10.37 

FIRST AMENDMENT  
TO THE INTEL CORPORATION 
SHELTERED EMPLOYEE RETIREMENT PLAN PLUS 
The document, as amended and restated effective January 1, 2006

1. Effective January 1, 2008, the last sentence of the first paragraph of Section 1 of the Intel
Corporation Sheltered Employee Retirement Plan Plus is amended by replacing the term  Section 12 
with  Section 13 .

2. Effective January 1, 2008, the last sentence of the fourth paragraph of Section 1 of the Intel
Corporation Sheltered Employee Retirement Plan Plus is amended by deleting the term  Internal
Revenue .

3. Effective January 1, 2008, Section 2(a) of the Intel Corporation Sheltered Employee Retirement
Plan Plus is amended by replacing the term  Company Contribution  with  Discretionary Intel
Contribution .

4. Effective January 1, 2008, Section 3(a) of the Intel Corporation Sheltered Employee Retirement
Plan Plus is amended by replacing the term  Section 3(a)(i)  with  Section 3(a)(1)  and the term
 Section 3(a)(ii) with  Section 3(a)(2) .

5. Effective January 1, 2008, Section 3(b)(2) of the Intel Corporation Sheltered Employee
Retirement Plan Plus is amended by replacing the phrase  A Participant may elect to have his
taxable compensation reduced  at the beginning of the paragraph with the phrase  Other than for
amounts eligible for deferral under (1) above, a Participant may elect to have his Earnings
reduced .

6. Effective January 1, 2008, Section 4(b) of the Intel Corporation Sheltered Employee Retirement
Plan Plus is amended by adding the term  Code  immediately before the term  Section 415(c)(1)(A) .

7. Effective January 1, 2008, the last sentence of Section 4(b) of the Intel Corporation Sheltered
Employee Retirement Plan Plus is amended by replacing the term  (as defined in the Intel
Corporation Profit Sharing Plan)  with the term  (as defined in the Intel Corporation Profit
Sharing Retirement Plan) .

8. Effective January 1, 2007, Section 6(c) of the Intel Corporation Sheltered Employee Retirement
Plan Plus is amended in its entirety to read as follows:

(c) The percentage of a Participant s Profit Sharing Account vested under this subparagraph
shall be determined under the applicable vesting schedule set forth in (1) or (2) below, as
applicable.

(1) The vesting schedule for each Participant who is an Employee on or after December
31, 2007 shall be as follows:

(ii) The vesting schedule for each Participant who is not described in (1) above shall
be as follows:

9. Effective January 1, 2008, Section 6(d)(2) will be amended by adding the following to the end of
the paragraph:

If a Participant is reemployed by the Company after beginning to receive Plan Benefits, the Company
will continue to pay out those Plan Benefits under the Participant s original Distribution
election.

10. Effective January 1, 2008, Section 7(a) of the Intel Corporation Sheltered Employee Retirement
Plan Plus is amended by replacing the term  Section 12  with the term  Section 13 .

11. Effective January 1, 2007, Section 7(b) of the Intel Corporation Sheltered Employee Retirement
Plan Plus is amended by removing the term  (affecting Participants who have attained age 55)  from
the last sentence of the subsection.

12. Effective January 1, 2008, Section 8(b) of the Intel Corporation Sheltered Employee Retirement
Plan Plus is amended by replacing the term  Section 409(a)(2)(B)(i)  with the term  Section
409A(a)(2)(B)(i) .

2 

13. Effective January 1, 2007, Section 8(c) of the Intel Corporation Sheltered Employee Retirement
Plan Plus is amended by adding the following paragraph between the second and third paragraph of
said section:

Participants who were active employees as of August 31, 2007 have the option to make a new one-time
distribution election from among the available options with respect to all Plan accounts by
submitting a new election form to the Company no later than August 31, 2007. Any such new election
supersedes prior elections, is irrevocable as to pre-2008 accounts and will take effect as of
August 31, 2007 for amounts to be distributed on or after January 1, 2008. In the event a
Participant makes such election and terminates employment prior to January 1, 2008, the new
election will be effective provided that it does not violate Section 409A of the Code, as
determined in the Company s sole discretion.

14. Effective January 1, 2007, Section 8(c)(1) of the Intel Corporation Sheltered Employee
Retirement Plan Plus is replaced in its entirety as follows:

(1)  Lump Sum . A Participant may elect to receive his or her Plan Benefit as a cash
lump sum either:

(A) by electing to receive the cash lump sum as soon as reasonably practicable after the
Participant s Termination Date; or,

(B) by electing to receive the cash lump in the year following the year of the Participant s
Termination Date.

15. Effective January 1, 2008, Section 8(c) of the Intel Corporation Sheltered Employee Retirement
Plan Plus is amended by adding the following:

(3)  Alternative Distribution Options Available for Deferrals Made on or after January 1,
2008 . The following additional distribution options are available to Participants for
deferrals made on or after January 1, 2008. None of these options is available for pre-2008
deferrals which are limited to the alternatives in (1) and (2) above. Additionally, In-Service
Distribution elections in (ii) below are not available for benefits in the Profit Sharing Account.

(i)  Yearly Deferral Election Option : Participants may annually elect a new
distribution election for each future year s deferrals.

(ii)  In-Service Distribution Election Option : Participants may choose to receive
an In-Service Distribution of the benefits in their Earnings Deferral Account by electing
among the alternatives described in Section 8(c)(1)(A) and c(2). However the elections
under 8(c)(2) will begin in the third month of the Plan Year in which the Participant
elects to begin the installment payments (instead of in the Plan Year following their
Termination Date). The distribution date must be at least three calendar years after the
beginning of the Plan Year in which the

3 

services that generated the Earnings were performed. If a Participant s Termination Date
precedes the In-Service Distribution Date and the Participant elected one of the
distribution options in Section 8(c)(2), the distribution will begin in the third month of
the Plan Year following the Participant s Termination Date and not on the later In-Service
Distribution date elected. If a Participant s Termination Date precedes the In-Service
Distribution Date and the Participant elected the cash lump sum option in Section
8(c)(1)(A), the lump sum will be paid out as soon as reasonably practicable after the
Participant s Termination Date and not on the later In-Service Distribution date elected.

(iii)  Re-deferral of Distribution Election : While still Employees, Participants
may elect to further defer the date ( but not change the method) of distributions provided
that the new election is made at least twelve (12) months before the first distribution was
originally due and the distribution is re-deferred for at least five (5) years beyond the
original distribution date. If a Participant s Termination Date precedes the re-deferral
date, the distribution method elected will begin on the Termination Date and not on the
later re-deferral date elected.

(4)  QDRO : Amounts due to an Alternative Payee pursuant to a QDRO (as described in
Section 9(j) of this Plan) will be distributed as a cash lump sum as soon as administratively
feasible following the qualification of the QDRO and segregation of the Alternate Payee s award,
pursuant to the administrative procedures established for the Plan. No alternative distribution
elections are available.

(5)  Small Benefits Rule : In the event that the Participant s Plan Benefit is $5,000
or less, then the distribution of the Participant s Plan Benefit shall be made in a cash lump sum
as soon as reasonably practicable after the Participant s Termination date, regardless of
outstanding elections.

16. Effective January 1, 2008, the last sentence of Section 13(j) of the Intel Corporation
Sheltered Employee Retirement Plan Plus is amended by replacing the term  such items include  with
the term  such excluded items include  and by adding the following sentence to the end of the
subsection:

Earnings will not include Employee Cash Bonus Plan payments awarded for services performed on or
after January 1, 2008.

17. Effective January 1, 2008, Section 13(m) of the Intel Corporation Sheltered Employee
Retirement Plan Plus is amended by adding the following sentence immediately after the first
sentence in the paragraph.

In any case, the Employee must be Grade 10-20 or 86-89 to be considered an Eligible Employee.

4 

18. Effective January 1, 2008, Section 13(q) of the Intel Corporation Sheltered Employee
Retirement Plan Plus is amended by adding the following sentence to the end of said subsection:

Employee Bonus will  not  include Employee Cash Bonus Plan bonuses but will include
Commissions and Intel Capital Bonus Plan bonuses awarded for services performed on or after January
1, 2008.

19. Effective January 1, 2008, Section 13 of the Intel Corporation Sheltered Employee Retirement
Plan Plus is amended by adding the following sentence at the end of the section:

(cc)   In-Service Distribution   means the distribution of a Participant s benefits in
his or her Earnings Deferral Account for a Plan Year will begin while the Participant is still an
Employee.

20. Effective January 1, 2008, Section 13 of the Intel Corporation Sheltered Employee Retirement
Plan Plus is amended by adding the following sentence at the end of the section:

(dd)  Commission  means compensation paid to an Employee under the ASMO Commissions Pay Plan
in effect for the applicable Plan Year.

IN WITNESS WHEREOF, this First Amendment was adopted by the Management SERP Administrative
Committee at its meeting October 19, 2007.

By: 

Date:  

/s/ Terra Castaldi

Terra Castaldi

November 6, 2007

Secretary of the

Management SERP Administrative Committee

5 

</EX-10.37>

<EX-10.38>
 5
 f36442exv10w38.htm
 SECOND AMENDMENT TO THE INTEL CORPORATION SHELTERED EMPLOYEE RETIREMENT PLAN PLUS, EXECUTED NOVEMBER 6, 2007

exv10w38 

Exhibit 10.38 

SECOND AMENDMENT  
TO THE INTEL CORPORATION 
SHELTERED EMPLOYEE RETIREMENT PLAN PLUS 
The document, as amended and restated effective January 1, 2006

1. Effective January 1, 2008, Section 13(m) of the Intel Corporation Sheltered Employee Retirement
Plan Plus is amended by deleting  In any case, the Employee must be Grade 10-20 or 86-89 to be
considered an Eligible Employee.  from the first paragraph and replacing it with the following:

In any case, the Employee must be Grade 10-20 or 86-89 (or the equivalent grade as classified by
the Company) to be considered an Eligible Employee.

IN WITNESS WHEREOF, this Second Amendment was adopted by the Management SERP Administrative
Committee by unanimous written consent.

By: 

Date:  

/s/ Terra Castaldi

Terra Castaldi

November 6, 2007

Secretary of the

Management SERP Administrative Committee

</EX-10.38>

<EX-12.1>
 6
 f36442exv12w1.htm
 STATEMENT SETTING FORTH THE COMPUTATION OF RATIOS OF EARNINGS TO FIXED CHARGES

exv12w1 

Exhibit 12.1 

INTEL CORPORATION 2007 FORM 10-K 

STATEMENT SETTING FORTH THE COMPUTATION 
OF RATIOS OF EARNINGS TO FIXED CHARGES FOR INTEL CORPORATION 

(In Millions, Except Ratios) 

</EX-12.1>

<EX-21.1>
 7
 f36442exv21w1.htm
 INTEL CORPORATION SUBSIDIARIES

exv21w1 

Exhibit 21.1 

INTEL CORPORATION 
SUBSIDIARIES (All 100% Owned) 

Subsidiaries of the Registrant  
       
      State or Other Jurisdiction of Incorporation  

Componentes Intel de Costa Rica, S.A.

Costa Rica 

Intel Americas, Inc.

Delaware, US 

Intel Capital (Cayman) Corporation

Cayman Islands 

Intel Copenhagen ApS

Denmark 

Intel Corporation (UK) Ltd.

England and Wales 

Intel Electronics Finance Limited

Cayman Islands 

Intel Electronics Ltd.

Israel 

Intel Europe, Inc.

California, US 

Intel International

California, US 

Intel Ireland Limited

Cayman Islands 

Intel Israel (74) Limited

Israel 

Intel Kabushiki Kaisha

Japan 

Intel Malaysia Sdn. Berhad

Malaysia 

Intel Massachusetts, Inc.

Delaware, US 

Intel Overseas Funding Corporation

Cayman Islands 

Intel Phils. Holding Corporation

California, US 

Intel Products (M) Sdn. Bhd.

Malaysia 

Intel Semiconductor Limited

Delaware, US 

Intel Technology (US), LLC

California 

Intel Technology Phils., Inc.

Philippines 

Intel Technology Sdn. Berhad

Malaysia 

Mission College Investments Ltd.

Cayman Islands 

</EX-21.1>

<EX-23.1>
 8
 f36442exv23w1.htm
 CONSENT OF ERNST & YOUNG LLP, INDEPENDENT REGISTERED PUBLIC ACCOUNTING FIRM

exv23w1 

Exhibit 23.1 

CONSENT OF ERNST   YOUNG, INDEPENDENT REGISTERED PUBLIC ACCOUNTING FIRM

We consent to the incorporation by reference in the Registration Statements (Form S-8 Nos.
333-84247, 33-33983, 33-29672, 33-63489, 333-24229, 333-45391, 333-45395, 333-67537, 333-90807,
333-77279, 333-75163, 333-82387, 333-96255, 333-33188, 333-34154, 333-36526, 333-38134,
333-39422, 333-42408, 333-46220, 333-49696, 333-57366, 333-58238, 333-58288, 333-59518, 333-59522,
333-59530, 333-63330, 333-115625, 333-124805, 333-135178, 333-135177, 333-143932, 333-125914, and
333-141905; and Form S-3 Nos. 333-132865, 33-20117, 33-54220, 33-58964, and 33-56107) of Intel
Corporation of our reports dated February 19, 2008, with respect to the consolidated financial
statements and schedule of Intel Corporation, and the effectiveness of internal control over
financial reporting of Intel Corporation, included in this Annual Report (Form 10-K) for the year
ended December 29, 2007.

/s/ Ernst   Young LLP

San Jose, California 
February 19, 2008

</EX-23.1>

<EX-31.1>
 9
 f36442exv31w1.htm
 CERTICATION OF CEO PURSUANT TO RULE 13A-14(A) OF THE EXCHANGE ACT

exv31w1 

Exhibit 31.1 

The following certification includes references to an evaluation of the effectiveness of the design
and operation of the company s  disclosure controls and procedures  and to certain matters related
to the company s  internal control over financial reporting.  Item 9A of Part II of this Form 10-K
presents the conclusions of the CEO and the CFO about the effectiveness of our disclosure controls
and procedures and internal control over financial reporting based on and as of the date of such
evaluations (related to Item 4 of the certification), and contains additional information
concerning disclosures to our Audit Committee and independent auditors with regard to deficiencies
in internal control over financial reporting and fraud and related matters (Item 5 of the
certification).

CERTIFICATION 

I, Paul S. Otellini, certify that:

1. 
       
     I have reviewed this annual report on Form 10-K of Intel Corporation; 

2. 
       
     Based on my knowledge, this report does not contain any untrue statement of a material fact
or omit to state a material fact necessary to make the statements made, in light of the
circumstances under which such statements were made, not misleading with respect to the period
covered by this report; 

3. 
       
     Based on my knowledge, the financial statements, and other financial information included in
this report, fairly present in all material respects the financial condition, results of
operations and cash flows of the registrant as of, and for, the periods presented in this
report; 

4. 
       
     The registrant s other certifying officer(s) and I are responsible for establishing and
maintaining disclosure controls and procedures (as defined in Exchange Act Rules 13a-15(e) and
15d-15(e)) and internal control over financial reporting (as defined in Exchange Act Rules
13a-15(f) and 15d-15(f)) for the registrant and have: 

a) 
       
     Designed such disclosure controls and procedures, or caused such disclosure controls and
procedures to be designed under our supervision, to ensure that material information
relating to the registrant, including its consolidated subsidiaries, is made known to us by
others within those entities, particularly during the period in which this report is being
prepared; 

b) 
       
     Designed such internal control over financial reporting, or caused such internal control
over financial reporting to be designed under our supervision, to provide reasonable
assurance regarding the reliability of financial reporting and the preparation of financial
statements for external purposes in accordance with generally accepted accounting
principles; 

c) 
       
     Evaluated the effectiveness of the registrant s disclosure controls and procedures and
presented in this report our conclusions about the effectiveness of the disclosure controls
and procedures, as of the end of the period covered by this report based on such evaluation;
and 

d) 
       
     Disclosed in this report any change in the registrant s internal control over financial
reporting that occurred during the registrant s most recent fiscal quarter (the registrant s
fourth fiscal quarter in the case of an annual report) that has materially affected, or is
reasonably likely to materially affect, the registrant s internal control over financial
reporting; and 

5. 
       
     The registrant s other certifying officer(s) and I have disclosed, based on our most recent
evaluation of internal control over financial reporting, to the registrant s auditors and the
audit committee of the registrant s board of directors (or persons performing the equivalent
functions): 

a) 
       
     All significant deficiencies and material weaknesses in the design or operation of
internal control over financial reporting which are reasonably likely to adversely affect
the registrant s ability to record, process, summarize and report financial information; and 

b) 
       
     Any fraud, whether or not material, that involves management or other employees who have
a significant role in the registrant s internal control over financial reporting. 

Date: February 19, 2008  
     By:   
     /s/  Paul S. Otellini 

Paul S. Otellini  

President and Chief Executive Officer  

</EX-31.1>

<EX-31.2>
 10
 f36442exv31w2.htm
 CERTIFICATION OF CFO AND PAO PURSUANT TO RULE 13A-14(A) OF THE EXCHANGE ACT

exv31w2 

Exhibit 31.2 

The following certification includes references to an evaluation of the effectiveness of the design
and operation of the company s  disclosure controls and procedures  and to certain matters related
to the company s  internal control over financial reporting.  Item 9A of Part II of this Form 10-K
presents the conclusions of the CEO and the CFO about the effectiveness of our disclosure controls
and procedures and internal control over financial reporting based on and as of the date of such
evaluations (related to Item 4 of the certification), and contains additional information
concerning disclosures to our Audit Committee and independent auditors with regard to deficiencies
in internal control over financial reporting and fraud and related matters (Item 5 of the
certification).

CERTIFICATION 

I, Stacy J. Smith, certify that:

1. 
       
     I have reviewed this annual report on Form 10-K of Intel Corporation; 

2. 
       
     Based on my knowledge, this report does not contain any untrue statement of a material fact
or omit to state a material fact necessary to make the statements made, in light of the
circumstances under which such statements were made, not misleading with respect to the period
covered by this report; 

3. 
       
     Based on my knowledge, the financial statements, and other financial information included in
this report, fairly present in all material respects the financial condition, results of
operations and cash flows of the registrant as of, and for, the periods presented in this
report; 

4. 
       
     The registrant s other certifying officer(s) and I are responsible for establishing and
maintaining disclosure controls and procedures (as defined in Exchange Act Rules 13a-15(e) and
15d-15(e)) and internal control over financial reporting (as defined in Exchange Act Rules
13a-15(f) and 15d-15(f)) for the registrant and have: 

a) 
       
     Designed such disclosure controls and procedures, or caused such disclosure controls and
procedures to be designed under our supervision, to ensure that material information
relating to the registrant, including its consolidated subsidiaries, is made known to us by
others within those entities, particularly during the period in which this report is being
prepared; 

b) 
       
     Designed such internal control over financial reporting, or caused such internal control
over financial reporting to be designed under our supervision, to provide reasonable
assurance regarding the reliability of financial reporting and the preparation of financial
statements for external purposes in accordance with generally accepted accounting
principles; 

c) 
       
     Evaluated the effectiveness of the registrant s disclosure controls and procedures and
presented in this report our conclusions about the effectiveness of the disclosure controls
and procedures, as of the end of the period covered by this report based on such evaluation;
and 

d) 
       
     Disclosed in this report any change in the registrant s internal control over financial
reporting that occurred during the registrant s most recent fiscal quarter (the registrant s
fourth fiscal quarter in the case of an annual report) that has materially affected, or is
reasonably likely to materially affect, the registrant s internal control over financial
reporting; and 

5. 
       
     The registrant s other certifying officer(s) and I have disclosed, based on our most recent
evaluation of internal control over financial reporting, to the registrant s auditors and the
audit committee of the registrant s board of directors (or persons performing the equivalent
functions): 

a) 
       
     All significant deficiencies and material weaknesses in the design or operation of
internal control over financial reporting which are reasonably likely to adversely affect
the registrant s ability to record, process, summarize and report financial information; and 

b) 
       
     Any fraud, whether or not material, that involves management or other employees who have
a significant role in the registrant s internal control over financial reporting. 

Date: February 19, 2008  
     By:   
     /s/  Stacy J. Smith 

Stacy J. Smith  

Vice President, Chief Financial Officer and 
Principal Accounting Officer  

</EX-31.2>

<EX-32.1>
 11
 f36442exv32w1.htm
 CERTIFICATION OF CEO AND CFO/PAO PURSUANT TO RULE 13A-14(B) OF THE EXCHANGE ACT AND U.S.C. SECTION 1350, AS ADOPTED PURSUANT TO SECTION 906 OF THE SARBANES-OXLEY ACT OF 2002

exv32w1 

Exhibit 32.1 

CERTIFICATION 

Each of the undersigned hereby certifies, for the purposes of section 1350 of chapter 63 of title
18 of the United States Code, as adopted pursuant to Section 906 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002,
in his capacity as an officer of Intel Corporation (Intel), that, to his knowledge, the Annual
Report of Intel on Form 10-K for the period ended December 29, 2007, fully complies with the
requirements of Section 13(a) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 and that the information
contained in such report fairly presents, in all material respects, the financial condition and
results of operation of Intel. This written statement is being furnished to the Securities and
Exchange Commission as an exhibit to such Form 10-K. A signed original of this statement has been
provided to Intel and will be retained by Intel and furnished to the Securities and Exchange
Commission or its staff upon request.

Date: February 19, 2008  
     By:   
     /s/  Paul S. Otellini 

Paul S. Otellini  

President and Chief Executive Officer  

Date: February 19, 2008  
     By:   
     /s/  Stacy J. Smith 

Stacy J. Smith  

Vice President, Chief Financial Officer and
Principal Accounting Officer  

</EX-32.1>

