<Header>
<FileStats>
    <FileName>20100222_10-K_edgar_data_50863_0000950123-10-015237_1.txt</FileName>
    <GrossFileSize>7415180</GrossFileSize>
    <NetFileSize>496002</NetFileSize>
    <NonText_DocumentType_Chars>367327</NonText_DocumentType_Chars>
    <HTML_Chars>1388763</HTML_Chars>
    <XBRL_Chars>2181231</XBRL_Chars>
    <XML_Chars>2439119</XML_Chars>
    <N_Tables>134</N_Tables>
    <N_Exhibits>15</N_Exhibits>
</FileStats>
<SEC-Header>
0000950123-10-015237.hdr.sgml : 20100222
<ACCEPTANCE-DATETIME>20100222171400
ACCESSION NUMBER:		0000950123-10-015237
CONFORMED SUBMISSION TYPE:	10-K
PUBLIC DOCUMENT COUNT:		21
CONFORMED PERIOD OF REPORT:	20091226
FILED AS OF DATE:		20100222
DATE AS OF CHANGE:		20100222

FILER:

	COMPANY DATA:	
		COMPANY CONFORMED NAME:			INTEL CORP
		CENTRAL INDEX KEY:			0000050863
		STANDARD INDUSTRIAL CLASSIFICATION:	SEMICONDUCTORS & RELATED DEVICES [3674]
		IRS NUMBER:				941672743
		STATE OF INCORPORATION:			DE
		FISCAL YEAR END:			1231

	FILING VALUES:
		FORM TYPE:		10-K
		SEC ACT:		1934 Act
		SEC FILE NUMBER:	000-06217
		FILM NUMBER:		10623521

	BUSINESS ADDRESS:	
		STREET 1:		2200 MISSION COLLEGE BLVD
		STREET 2:		RNB-4-151
		CITY:			SANTA CLARA
		STATE:			CA
		ZIP:			95054
		BUSINESS PHONE:		4087658080

	MAIL ADDRESS:	
		STREET 1:		2200 MISSION COLLEGE BLVD
		STREET 2:		RNB-4-151
		CITY:			SANTA CLARA
		STATE:			CA
		ZIP:			95054

</SEC-Header>
</Header>

 
Proc-Type: 2001,MIC-CLEAR
Originator-Name: webmaster@www.sec.gov
Originator-Key-Asymmetric:
 MFgwCgYEVQgBAQICAf8DSgAwRwJAW2sNKK9AVtBzYZmr6aGjlWyK3XmZv3dTINen
 TWSM7vrzLADbmYQaionwg5sDW3P6oaM5D3tdezXMm7z1T+B+twIDAQAB
MIC-Info: RSA-MD5,RSA,
 OiGDfS49tQFLj0oGJTf/de9+YXbp138o6Ibg4772kmIiCXUiUT12pT4wV4BSHpQE
 ki3s/5O31H98666xrBorog==

 0000950123-10-015237.txt : 20100222

10-K
 1
 f54119e10vk.htm
 FORM 10-K

e10vk 

Table of Contents   

UNITED STATES SECURITIES AND
    EXCHANGE COMMISSION  

Washington, D.C.
    20549  

FORM
     10-K   

(Mark One) 

For
    the fiscal year ended December 26, 2009. 

or 

For
    the transition period from
                          
    to
                          . 

Commission File Number
     000-06217  

INTEL CORPORATION  

(Exact name of registrant as specified in its charter)

Registrant s telephone number, including area code  (408)
     765-8080  

Securities registered pursuant to Section 12(b) of the Act:

Title of each class 

Name of each exchange on which registered 

Common stock, $0.001 par value

The NASDAQ Global Select Market*

Securities registered pursuant to Section 12(g) of the Act:

None

Indicate by check mark if the
    registrant is a well-known seasoned issuer, as defined in Rule
    405 of the Securities
    Act.  Yes         No      

Indicate by check mark if the
    registrant is not required to file reports pursuant to Section
    13 or Section 15(d) of the
    Act.  Yes         No      

Indicate by check mark whether the
    registrant (1) has filed all reports required to be filed by
    Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934
    during the preceding 12 months (or for such shorter period that
    the registrant was required to file such reports), and (2) has
    been subject to such filing requirements for the past 90
    days.  Yes         No      

Indicate by check mark whether the
    registrant has submitted electronically and posted on its
    corporate Web site, if any, every Interactive Data File required
    to be submitted and posted pursuant to Rule 405 of Regulation
     S-T 
    ( 232.405 of this chapter) during the preceding
    12 months (or for such shorter period that the registrant
    was required to submit and post such
    files).  Yes         No      

Indicate by check mark if
    disclosure of delinquent filers pursuant to Item 405 of
    Regulation
     S-K 
    ( 229.405 of this chapter) is not contained herein, and
    will not be contained, to the best of registrant s
    knowledge, in definitive proxy or information statements
    incorporated by reference in Part III of this Form
     10-K  or any
    amendment to this Form
     10-K.        

Indicate by check mark whether the
    registrant is a large accelerated filer, an accelerated filer, a
    non-accelerated filer, or a smaller reporting company. See the
    definitions of  large accelerated filer, 
     accelerated filer  and  smaller reporting
    company  in Rule
     12b-2  of the
    Exchange Act.

Large accelerated
    filer     

Accelerated
    filer     

Non-accelerated
    filer      
      (Do not check if a smaller
    reporting company)

Smaller reporting
    company     

Indicate by check mark whether the
    registrant is a shell company (as defined in Rule
     12b-2  of the
    Act).  Yes         No      

Aggregate market value of voting
    and non-voting common equity held by non-affiliates of the
    registrant as of June 26, 2009, based upon the closing price of
    the common stock as reported by The NASDAQ Global Select Market*
    on such date, was

$91.1 billion

5,524 million shares of common stock outstanding as of February
    5, 2010

DOCUMENTS
    INCORPORATED BY REFERENCE  

Portions of the registrant s
    Proxy Statement related to its 2010 Annual Stockholders 
    Meeting to be filed subsequently Part III of this
     Form 10-K. 

INTEL
    CORPORATION 

FORM
     10-K  

FOR THE
    FISCAL YEAR ENDED DECEMBER 26, 2009 

INDEX  

Page 

PART I  

Item 1. 

Business 

1

Item 1A. 

Risk Factors 

15

Item 1B. 

Unresolved Staff Comments 

21

Item 2. 

Properties 

21

Item 3. 

Legal Proceedings 

22

Item 4. 

Submission of Matters to a Vote of Security
    Holders 

22

PART II  

Item 5. 

Market for Registrant s Common Equity,
    Related Stockholder Matters and Issuer Purchases of Equity
    Securities 

22

Item 6. 

Selected Financial Data 

24

Item 7. 

Management s Discussion and Analysis of
    Financial Condition and Results of Operations 

25

Item 7A. 

Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About
    Market Risk 

47

Item 8. 

Financial Statements and Supplementary Data 

49

Item 9. 

Changes in and Disagreements With Accountants on
    Accounting and Financial Disclosure 

114

Item 9A. 

Controls and Procedures 

114

Item 9B. 

Other Information 

115

PART III  

Item 10. 

Directors, Executive Officers and Corporate
    Governance 

116

Item 11. 

Executive Compensation 

116

Item 12. 

Security Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owners
    and Management and Related Stockholder Matters 

116

Item 13. 

Certain Relationships and Related Transactions,
    and Director Independence 

117

Item 14. 

Principal Accounting Fees and Services 

117

PART IV  

Item 15. 

Exhibits, Financial Statement Schedules 

118

Table of Contents   

PART
    I  

ITEM
    1.        

BUSINESS  

Industry  

We are the world s largest
    semiconductor chip maker, based on revenue. We develop advanced
    integrated digital technology products, primarily integrated
    circuits, for industries such as computing and communications.
    Integrated circuits are semiconductor chips etched with
    interconnected electronic switches. We also develop platforms,
    which we define as integrated suites of digital computing
    technologies that are designed and configured to work together
    to provide an optimized user computing solution compared to
    components that are used separately. Our goal is to be the
    preeminent provider of semiconductor chips and platforms for the
    worldwide digital economy.

We were incorporated in California
    in 1968 and reincorporated in Delaware in 1989. Our Internet
    address is  www.intel.com . On this web site, we publish
    voluntary reports, which we update annually, outlining our
    performance with respect to corporate responsibility, including
    environmental, health, and safety (EHS) compliance.

We use our Investor Relations web
    site,  www.intc.com , as a routine channel for distribution
    of important information, including news releases, analyst
    presentations, and financial information. We post filings as
    soon as reasonably practicable after they are electronically
    filed with, or furnished to, the U.S. Securities and Exchange
    Commission (SEC), including our annual and quarterly reports on
    Forms  10-K 
    and  10-Q 
    (including related filings in XBRL format) and current reports
    on Form  8-K; 
    our proxy statements; and any amendments to those reports or
    statements. All such postings and filings are available on our
    Investor Relations web site free of charge. In addition, our web
    site allows investors and other interested persons to sign up to
    automatically receive
     e-mail 
    alerts when we post news releases and financial information. The
    SEC also maintains a web site,  www.sec.gov , that contains
    reports, proxy and information statements, and other information
    regarding issuers that file electronically with the SEC. The
    content on any web site referred to in this Form
     10-K  is not
    incorporated by reference into this Form
     10-K  unless
    expressly noted.

Company
    Organization  

At the end of 2009, we reorganized
    our business to better align our major product groups around the
    core competencies of
    Intel   

    architecture and our manufacturing operations. After the
    reorganization, we have nine operating segments:

PC Client
    Group.     Delivering
    a high-quality computing and Internet experience through Intel
    architecture-based products and platforms, primarily for
    notebooks, netbooks, and desktops.

Data Center
    Group.     Delivering
    server, storage, and workstation platforms for small, medium,
    and large enterprises.

Embedded and Communications
    Group.     Delivering
    Intel architecture-based products as solutions for embedded
    applications through long life-cycle support, software and
    architectural scalability, and platform integration.

Digital Home
    Group.     Delivering
    Intel architecture-based products for next-generation consumer
    electronics devices with interactive Internet content and
    traditional broadcast programming.

Ultra-Mobility
    Group.     Building
    a business in the next-generation handheld market segment with
    low-power Intel
     architecture-based 
    products.

NAND Solutions
    Group.     Delivering
    advanced NAND flash memory products for use in a variety of
    devices.

Wind River Software
    Group.     A
    wholly owned subsidiary delivering device software optimization
    products to the embedded and handheld market segments, serving a
    variety of hardware architectures.

Software and Services
    Group.     Delivering
    software products and services, in addition to promoting Intel
    architecture as the platform of choice for software development.

Digital Health
    Group.     Delivering
    technology-enabled products that are designed to reduce
    healthcare costs and connect people and information to improve
    patient care and safety.

1

Table of Contents   

Products  

We design and manufacture
    computing and communications components, such as
    microprocessors, chipsets, motherboards, and wireless and wired
    connectivity products, as well as platforms that incorporate
    these components. We strive to optimize the overall performance
    improvements of our products by balancing increased performance
    capabilities with improved energy efficiency. Increased
    performance can include faster processing performance and other
    improved capabilities, such as multithreading and multitasking.
    Performance can also be improved through enhanced connectivity,
    storage, security, manageability, utilization, reliability, ease
    of use, and interoperability among devices. Improved energy
    efficiency is achieved by lowering power consumption in relation
    to performance capabilities, which may extend utilization time
    for battery-powered form factors and reduce system heat output,
    thereby providing power savings and reducing the total cost of
    ownership.

We offer products at various
    levels of integration, to allow our customers flexibility in
    creating computing and communications systems. The substantial
    majority of our revenue is from the sale of microprocessors and
    chipsets.

Components  

Microprocessors  

A microprocessor the central
    processing unit (CPU) of a computer system processes system
    data and controls other devices in the system, acting as the
     brains  of the computer. We offer microprocessors
    with one or multiple processor cores designed for notebooks,
    netbooks, desktops, servers, workstations, storage products,
    embedded applications, communications products, consumer
    electronics devices, and handhelds. The following are
    characteristics of our microprocessors:

Multi-core microprocessors contain
    two or more processor cores, which can enable improved
    multitasking and energy-efficient performance by distributing
    computing tasks across multiple cores.

Cache is memory that can be
    located directly on the microprocessor. Incorporating additional
    amounts
     and/or 
    levels of cache can enable higher performance by permitting
    quicker access to frequently used data and instructions.

Some of our microprocessors also
    include an integrated memory controller or an integrated memory
    controller and integrated graphics functionality. Both an
    integrated memory controller and integrated graphics
    functionality can increase the speed at which data is
    transferred between system components.

Most of our microprocessors are
    based on the latest generation
    Intel   

    Core  tm    

    microarchitecture and are manufactured using our
     45-nanometer 
    (nm) Hi-k metal gate silicon process technology (45nm process
    technology) or our 32nm second-generation Hi-k metal gate
    silicon process technology (32nm process technology). These
    technologies are the first to use Hi-k metal gate transistors,
    which increase performance while simultaneously reducing the
    leakage of currents. Microarchitecture refers to the layout,
    density, and logical design of a microprocessor. The latest
    generation Intel Core microarchitecture incorporates features
    designed to increase performance and energy efficiency, such as:

Intel      

     Turbo Boost Technology , which increases processor
    frequency when applications demand more performance; and

Intel      

     Hyper-Threading Technology , which allows each processor
    core to process two software tasks or threads simultaneously.

We also offer, and are continuing
    to develop, System on Chip (SoC) products that integrate our
    core processing functionalities with other system components,
    such as graphics, audio, and video, onto a single chip to form a
    purpose-built solution. SoC products are designed to provide
    improved performance due to higher integration, lower power
    consumption, and smaller form factors.

Chipsets  

The chipset operates as the
     nervous system  in a PC or other computing device,
    sending data between the microprocessor and input, display, and
    storage devices, such as the keyboard, mouse, monitor, hard
    drive or solid-state drive, and CD, DVD, or Blu-ray* drive. We
    offer chipsets designed for notebooks, netbooks, desktops,
    servers, workstations, storage products, embedded applications,
    communications products, consumer electronics devices, and
    handhelds. Chipsets extend the audio, video, and other
    capabilities of many systems and perform essential logic
    functions, such as balancing the performance of the system and
    removing bottlenecks. Some chipsets may also include graphics
    functionality or graphics functionality and a memory controller,
    for use with our microprocessors that do not integrate those
    system components.

2

Table of Contents   

Motherboards  

We offer motherboard products
    designed for our desktop, server, and workstation platforms. A
    motherboard is the principal board within a system, and
    typically contains the microprocessor, chipset, memory, and
    other components. The motherboard also has connectors for
    attaching devices to the bus, which is the subsystem that
    transfers data between various components of a computer.

Wireless
    and Wired Connectivity  

We offer wireless and wired
    connectivity products, including network adapters and embedded
    wireless cards, based on industry-standard protocols used to
    translate and transmit data across networks. Wireless
    connectivity products based on WiFi technology allow users to
    wirelessly connect to high-speed local area networks, typically
    within a close range. We have also developed wireless
    connectivity products for both mobile and fixed networks based
    on WiMAX, a standards-based wireless technology providing
    high-speed broadband connectivity that can link users and
    networks up to several miles apart.

Platforms   

A platform typically includes a
    microprocessor, chipset, and enabling software, and may include
    additional hardware, services, and support. In developing our
    platforms, we may include components made by other companies.
    Platforms based on our latest generation Intel Core
    microarchitecture using our 32nm process technology integrate a
    memory controller and graphics functionality into each
    microprocessor, and connect the microprocessor and other
    components with a high-speed interconnect. We refer to certain
    platform brands within our product offerings as processor
    technologies.

Microprocessor
    and Platform Technologies   

We offer features to improve
    microprocessor and platform capabilities that can enhance system
    performance and user experience. For example, we offer
    technologies that can help information technology managers
    maintain, manage, and protect enabled systems that are plugged
    into a power source and connected to a network, even if a
    computer is turned off or has a failed hard drive or operating
    system. Additional features can enable virtualization, in which
    a single computer system can function as multiple virtual
    systems by running multiple operating systems and applications.
    Virtualization can consolidate workloads and provide increased
    security and management capabilities. To take advantage of these
    and other features that we offer, a computer system must have a
    microprocessor that supports a chipset and BIOS (basic
    input/output system) that use the technology, and software that
    is optimized for the technology. Performance will vary depending
    on the system hardware and software used.

Additional
    Product Offerings   

NAND flash
    memory     is a
    specialized type of memory component primarily used in portable
    memory storage devices, digital camera memory cards, solid-state
    drives, and other devices. NAND flash memory retains information
    even when the power is off, and provides faster access to data
    than traditional hard drives. Because flash memory does not have
    any moving parts, it tolerates bumps and shocks better than
    devices such as rapidly spinning disk drives.

Network
    processors     are
    advanced, fully programmable processors used in networking
    equipment to rapidly manage and direct data moving across
    networks and the Internet.

Software
    products     include
    operating systems, middleware, and tools used to develop, run,
    and manage a wide variety of enterprise, consumer, embedded, and
    handheld devices. In addition, we offer software development
    tools, designed to complement our latest hardware technologies,
    that help enable the creation of applications.

Healthcare
    products     are
    technology-enabled devices for healthcare providers and personal
    healthcare that are designed to connect people and information
    to improve patient care and safety.

3

Table of Contents   

Revenue
    by Major Operating Segment   

Net revenue for the PC Client
    Group (PCCG) operating segment, the Data Center Group (DCG)
    operating segment, and the other Intel architecture operating
    segments (Other IA) is presented as a percentage of our
    consolidated net revenue. Other IA includes the Embedded and
    Communications Group, the Digital Home Group, and the
    Ultra-Mobility Group operating segments.

Percentage
    of Revenue 
       (Dollars
    in Millions)

Revenue from sales of
    microprocessors within the PCCG operating segment represented
    57% of our consolidated net revenue in 2009 (57% in 2008 and 55%
    in 2007), and revenue from sales of microprocessors within the
    DCG operating segment represented 15% of our consolidated net
    revenue in 2009 (14% in 2008 and 13% in 2007).

Below, we discuss the key products
    and processor technologies, including some key introductions, of
    our operating segments. For a discussion of our strategy, see
     Strategy  in Part II, Item 7 of this Form
     10-K. 

PC
    Client Group   

The PC Client Group (PCCG) offers
    microprocessors and related chipsets designed for the notebook,
    netbook, and desktop market segments. In addition, PCCG offers
    motherboards designed for the desktop market segment, and
    wireless connectivity products.

Notebooks
    and Netbooks  

Our current notebook and netbook
    microprocessor offerings include the:

Intel   

Core  tm  

i7 processor Extreme Edition

Intel   

Core  tm  2

Duo mobile processor

Intel   

Core  tm  

i7 mobile processor

Intel   

Core  tm  2

Solo processor

Intel   

Core  tm  

i5 mobile processor

Intel   

    Celeron   

    D processor

Intel   

Core  tm  

i3 mobile processor

Intel   

    Celeron   

    M processor

Intel   

Core  tm  2

Extreme mobile processor

Intel   

    Celeron   

    processor

Intel   

Core  tm  2

Quad mobile processor

Intel   

Atom  tm  

processor

We offer microprocessors for
    notebooks at a variety of price and performance points, from the
    Intel Core i7 processor Extreme Edition a quad-core
    processor based on our latest generation Intel Core
    microarchitecture designed for
     processor-intensive 
    tasks in demanding multitasking environments to the Intel
    Celeron processor, designed to provide value, quality, and
    reliability for basic computing needs. In addition, we offer the
    Intel Atom processor, designed for netbooks. We offer these
    processors in various packaging options, including
     ultra-low-voltage 
    processors designed for ultra-thin laptop computers, giving our
    customers flexibility for a wide range of system designs for
    notebook PCs. The related chipsets for our notebook and netbook
    microprocessor offerings primarily include Mobile
    Intel   

    5 Series Express Chipsets, Mobile
    Intel   

    4 Series Express Chipsets, Mobile
    Intel   

    900 Series Express Chipsets, and the
    Intel   

    NM10 Express Chipset. In addition, we offer wireless
    connectivity products based on WiFi and WiMAX technologies.

4

Table of Contents   

We also offer processor
    technologies designed to provide high performance with improved
    multitasking; and power-saving features to improve battery life,
    wireless network connectivity, and boot times, and to enable
    smaller form factors. The
    Intel   

    Core  tm    

    i5
    vPro  tm    

    processor and the
    Intel   

    Core  tm    

    i7
    vPro  tm    

    processor are designed to provide business notebook PCs with
    increased security, manageability, upgradeability, and
    energy-efficient performance.

Our new product offerings in 2009
    and early 2010 include:

Intel Core i7 mobile processors,
    Intel Core i5 mobile processors, and Intel Core i3 mobile
    processors, the latest of which are manufactured using our 32nm
    process technology and include integrated high-definition
    graphics functionality. These processors are supported by the
    new Mobile Intel 5 Series Express Chipset family.

Intel   

    Centrino   

    Wireless adapters, designed to offer high-speed and reliable
    connectivity, and consistent coverage, while consuming minimal
    power.

An Intel Atom processor with
    integrated graphics functionality designed to enable improved
    performance and smaller, more energy-efficient netbooks. This
    processor is supported by the new, low-power Intel NM10 Express
    Chipset.

The Intel Core i7 processor
    Extreme Edition, based on our latest generation Intel Core
    microarchitecture, and designed for demanding applications such
    as high-performance gaming, high-definition content creation,
    and video encoding and editing.

Ultra-low-voltage processors and a
    chipset designed for ultra-thin laptop computers.

Desktops  

Our current desktop microprocessor
    offerings include the:

Intel   

Core  tm  

i7 processor Extreme Edition

Intel   

Core  tm  2

Quad processor

Intel   

Core  tm  

i7 processor

Intel   

Core  tm  2

Duo processor

Intel   

Core  tm  

i5 processor

Intel   

    Pentium   

    processor

Intel   

Core  tm  

i3 processor

Intel   

    Celeron   

    processor

Intel   

Core  tm  2

Extreme processor

Intel   

Atom  tm  

processor

We offer desktop microprocessors
    at a variety of price/performance points, from the high-end
    Intel Core i7 processor Extreme Edition a quad-core
    processor based on our latest generation Intel Core
    microarchitecture, designed for processor-intensive tasks in
    demanding multitasking environments to the Intel Celeron
    processor, designed to provide value, quality, and reliability
    for basic computing needs. In addition, we offer the Intel Atom
    processor, designed for low-power and affordable
    Internet-focused devices. The related chipsets for our desktop
    microprocessor offerings primarily include
    Intel   

    5 Series Express Chipsets,
    Intel   

    4 Series Express Chipsets,
    Intel   

    3 Series Express Chipsets, and the
    Intel   

    NM10 Express Chipset.

We also offer processor
    technologies based on our microprocessors, chipsets, and
    motherboard products that are optimized for the desktop market
    segment. For business desktop PCs, we offer the
    Intel   

    Core  tm    2

    Duo processor with
    vPro  tm    

    technology, the
    Intel   

    Core  tm    2

    Quad processor with
    vPro  tm    

    technology, the
    Intel   

    Core  tm    

    i5
    vPro  tm    

    processor, and the
    Intel   

    Core  tm    

    i7
    vPro  tm    

    processor, which are designed to provide manageability,
    upgradeability, energy-efficient performance, increased
    security, and lower cost of ownership.

Our new product offerings in 2009
    and early 2010 include:

Intel Core i7 processors, Intel
    Core i5 processors, and Intel Core i3 processors, the latest of
    which are manufactured using our 32nm process technology and
    include integrated high-definition graphics functionality. These
    processors are supported by the new Intel 5 Series Express
    Chipset family.

An Intel Atom processor with
    integrated graphics functionality designed to enable improved
    performance and smaller, more energy-efficient entry-level
    desktops. This processor is supported by the new, low-power
    Intel NM10 Express Chipset.

Data
    Center Group   

The Data Center Group (DCG) offers
    products that are incorporated into servers, storage,
    workstations, and other products that help make up the
    infrastructure for data center and cloud computing environments.
    DCG s products include microprocessors and related
    chipsets, and motherboards and wired connectivity devices.

5

Table of Contents   

Our current server, workstation,
    and storage microprocessor offerings include the
    Intel   

    Xeon   

    processor and the
    Intel   

    Itanium   

    processor. Our Intel Xeon processor family of products supports
    a range of entry-level to high-end technical and commercial
    computing applications such as Internet Protocol data centers.
    Compared to our Intel Xeon processor family, our Intel Itanium
    processor family generally supports an even higher level of
    reliability and computing performance for data processing,
    handling high transaction volumes, and other
     compute-intensive 
    applications for enterprise-class servers, as well as
    supercomputing solutions. Servers, which usually have multiple
    microprocessors or cores working together, manage large amounts
    of data, direct data traffic, perform complex transactions, and
    control central functions in local and wide area networks and on
    the Internet. Workstations typically offer higher performance
    than standard desktop PCs and are used for applications such as
    engineering design, digital content creation, and
    high-performance computing. With the large growth in digital
    content, external storage systems, such as storage area network
    (SAN) and network-attached storage (NAS), require higher
    bandwidth and improved processing performance.

Our new product offerings in 2009
    and early 2010 include:

Quad-core Intel Itanium processors
    with enhanced scalability and reliability features, designed for
    mission-critical computing.

Dual- and quad-core Intel Xeon
    processors based on our latest generation Intel Core
    microarchitecture, including multiple
     quad-core 
    Intel Xeon processors designed for use in entry-level servers
    for small businesses and educational settings.

Server motherboards that offer a
    higher degree of integrated components.

Other
    Intel Architecture Operating Segments   

Embedded
    and Communications Group  

The Embedded and Communications
    Group (ECG) offers highly scalable microprocessors, including
    Intel Atom processors, and chipsets for a growing number of
    embedded applications across numerous market segments, including
    industrial, medical, and in-vehicle infotainment. In addition,
    ECG offers network processors.

Our new product offerings in 2009
    and early 2010 include:

Embedded Intel Core i7 processors,
    Intel Core i5 processors, and Intel Core i3 processors, all
    using our 32nm process technology and with integrated
    high-definition graphics functionality. These processors are
    supported by the new Mobile Intel 5 Series Express Chipset
    family.

Low-power Intel Xeon processors
    based on our latest generation Intel Core microarchitecture,
    designed for use in thermally constrained environments common to
    communications infrastructure products such as wireline phones
    and fax machines.

Intel Atom processors designed for
    in-vehicle infotainment systems, media phones, and other
    industrial applications.

Ultra-Mobility
    Group  

The Ultra-Mobility Group offers
    energy-efficient Intel Atom processors and related chipsets
    designed for mobile Internet devices (MIDs) within the handheld
    market segment.

Digital
    Home Group  

The Digital Home Group offers
    products for use in consumer electronics devices designed to
    access and share Internet, broadcast, optical media (CD, DVD, or
    Blu-ray), and personal content through a variety of linked
    digital devices within the home. In addition, we offer
    components for consumer electronics devices such as digital TVs,
    high-definition media players, and set-top boxes, which receive,
    decode, and convert incoming data signals. In 2009, we
    introduced the
    Intel   

    Atom  tm    

    processor CE4100, a SoC media processor designed to bring
    Internet content and services to digital televisions, DVD
    players, and advanced set-top boxes.

6

Table of Contents   

Other
    Operating Segments   

NAND
    Solutions Group  

The NAND Solutions Group offers
    NAND flash memory products primarily used in portable memory
    storage devices, digital camera memory cards, solid-state
    drives, and other devices. Our solid-state drives, available in
    densities ranging from 2 gigabytes (GB) to 160 GB, weigh less
    than standard hard disk drives and are designed to enable faster
    boot times, lower power consumption, increased reliability, and
    improved performance. Our NAND flash memory products are
    manufactured by IM Flash Technologies, LLC (IMFT). See
     Note 11:
     Non-Marketable 
    Equity Investments  in Part II, Item 8 of this Form
     10-K.  In
    2009, we introduced 80-GB and 160-GB solid-state drives based on
    34nm NAND flash technology, designed for laptop and desktop
    computers.

Wind
    River Software Group  

The Wind River Software Group
    develops and licenses device software optimization products,
    including operating systems, for the needs of customers in the
    embedded and handheld market segments.

Manufacturing
    and Assembly and Test  

As of December 26, 2009, 64% of
    our wafer fabrication, including microprocessors and chipsets,
    was conducted within the U.S. at our facilities in Arizona,
    Oregon, New Mexico, and Massachusetts. The remaining 36% of our
    wafer fabrication was conducted outside the U.S. at our
    facilities in Ireland and Israel.

As of December 26, 2009, we
    primarily manufactured our products in wafer fabrication
    facilities at the following locations:

Products 

Wafer Size 

Process Technology 

Locations 

Microprocessors

300mm

32nm

Oregon

Microprocessors

300mm

45nm

Israel, New Mexico, Arizona

Chipsets and microprocessors

300mm

65nm

Arizona, Ireland

Chipsets and other products

300mm

90nm

Ireland

Chipsets and other products

200mm

130nm and above

Massachusetts, Oregon, Ireland

In addition to our current
    facilities, we are building a 300mm wafer fabrication facility
    in China that is expected to begin production on chipsets using
    our 65nm process technology in late 2010 or early 2011.

As of December 26, 2009, the
    substantial majority of our microprocessors were manufactured on
    300mm wafers using our 45nm process technology. In the second
    half of 2009, we began manufacturing microprocessors using our
    32nm process technology. As we move to each succeeding
    generation of manufacturing process technology, we incur
    significant
     start-up 
    costs to prepare each factory for manufacturing. However,
    continuing to advance our process technology provides benefits
    that we believe justify these costs. The benefits of moving to
    each succeeding generation of manufacturing process technology
    can include using less space per transistor, reducing heat
    output from each transistor,
     and/or 
    increasing the number of integrated features on each chip. These
    advancements can result in microprocessors that are higher
    performing, consume less power,
     and/or  cost
    less to manufacture.

We use third-party manufacturing
    companies (foundries) to manufacture wafers for certain
    components, including networking and communications products. In
    addition, we primarily use subcontractors to manufacture
    board-level products and systems, and purchase certain
    communications networking products from external vendors in the
    Asia-Pacific region.

Our NAND flash memory products are
    manufactured by IMFT, a NAND flash memory manufacturing company
    that we formed with Micron Technology, Inc. Our NAND flash
    memory products are manufactured by IMFT using 34nm or 50nm
    process technology, and we expect to offer NAND flash memory
    products using 25nm process technology during the second quarter
    of 2010. We purchase 49% of the manufactured output of IMFT as
    of December 26, 2009. Assembly and test of NAND flash memory
    products is performed by Micron and other external
    subcontractors. See  Note 11: Non-Marketable Equity
    Investments  in Part II, Item 8 of this Form
     10-K. 

During 2008, we completed the
    divestiture of our NOR flash memory business in exchange for an
    ownership interest in Numonyx B.V. We are leasing a wafer
    fabrication facility located in Israel to Numonyx. That facility
    is not shown in our above listing of wafer fabrication
    facilities.

7

Table of Contents   

Following the manufacturing
    process, the majority of our components are subject to assembly
    and test. We perform our components assembly and test at
    facilities in Malaysia, China, and Costa Rica. We are building a
    new assembly and test facility in Vietnam that is expected to
    begin production in the second half of 2010. To augment
    capacity, we use subcontractors to perform assembly of certain
    products, primarily chipsets and networking and communications
    products.

Our employment practices are
    consistent with, and we expect our suppliers and subcontractors
    to abide by, local country law. In addition, we impose a minimum
    employee age requirement as well as progressive EHS
    requirements, regardless of local law.

We have thousands of suppliers,
    including subcontractors, providing our various materials and
    service needs. We set expectations for supplier performance and
    reinforce those expectations with periodic assessments. We
    communicate those expectations to our suppliers regularly and
    work with them to implement improvements when necessary. We
    seek, where possible, to have several sources of supply for all
    of these materials and resources, but we may rely on a single or
    limited number of suppliers, or upon suppliers in a single
    country. In those cases, we develop and implement plans and
    actions to reduce the exposure that would result from a
    disruption in supply. We have entered into long-term contracts
    with certain suppliers to ensure a portion of our silicon supply.

Our products are typically
    produced at multiple Intel facilities at various sites around
    the world, or by subcontractors who have multiple facilities.
    However, some products are produced in only one Intel or
    subcontractor facility, and we seek to implement actions and
    plans to reduce the exposure that would result from a disruption
    at any such facility. See  Risk Factors  in Part I,
    Item 1A of this Form
     10-K. 

Research
    and Development  

We are committed to investing in
    world-class technology development, particularly in the design
    and manufacture of integrated circuits. Research and development
    (R D) expenditures in 2009 were $5.7 billion ($5.7 billion
    in 2008 and $5.8 billion in 2007).

Our R D activities are
    directed toward developing the technology innovations that we
    believe will deliver our next generation of products and
    platforms, which will in turn enable new form factors and new
    usage models for businesses and consumers. Our R D
    activities range from designing and developing products, to
    developing and refining manufacturing processes, to researching
    future technologies and products.

We are focusing our R D
    efforts on advanced computing technologies, developing new
    microarchitectures, advancing our silicon manufacturing process
    technology, delivering the next generation of microprocessors
    and chipsets, improving our platform initiatives, and developing
    software solutions and tools to support our technologies. Our
    R D efforts enable new levels of performance and address
    areas such as energy efficiency, scalability for multi-core
    architectures, system manageability and security, and ease of
    use. We continue to make significant R D investments in the
    development of SoCs to enable growth in areas such as handhelds
    (including MIDs and smartphones), embedded applications, and
    consumer electronics. In addition, we continue to make
    significant investments in graphics and wireless technologies.

As part of our R D efforts,
    we plan to introduce a new microarchitecture for our notebook,
    desktop, and Intel Xeon processors approximately every two years
    and ramp the next generation of silicon process technology in
    the intervening years. We refer to this as our
     tick-tock  technology development cadence. In 2009,
    we started manufacturing microprocessors using our new 32nm
    second-generation Hi-k metal gate silicon process technology,
    and we expect to introduce a new microarchitecture using our
    32nm process technology in 2010. We are currently developing
    22nm process technology, our next-generation process technology,
    and expect to begin manufacturing products using that technology
    in 2011. Our leadership in silicon technology has enabled us to
    make  Moore s Law  a reality. Moore s Law
    predicted that transistor density on integrated circuits would
    double about every two years. Our leadership in silicon
    technology has also helped expand on the advances anticipated by
    Moore s Law by bringing new capabilities into silicon and
    producing new products and platforms optimized for a wider
    variety of applications.

Our R D model is based on a
    global organization that emphasizes a collaborative approach to
    identifying and developing new technologies, leading standards
    initiatives, and influencing regulatory policies to accelerate
    the adoption of new technologies. Our R D initiatives are
    performed by various business groups within the company, and we
    centrally manage key cross-business group product initiatives to
    align and prioritize our R D activities across these
    groups. In addition, we may augment our R D initiatives by
    investing in companies or entering into agreements with
    companies that have similar R D focus areas. For example,
    we have an agreement with Micron for joint development of NAND
    flash memory technologies.

8

Table of Contents   

Employees  

As of December 26, 2009, we had
    79,800 employees worldwide, with 55% of those employees located
    in the U.S.

Sales and
    Marketing  

Customers   

We sell our products primarily to
    original equipment manufacturers (OEMs) and original design
    manufacturers (ODMs). ODMs provide design
     and/or 
    manufacturing services to branded and unbranded private-label
    resellers. In addition, we sell our products to other
    manufacturers, including makers of a wide range of industrial
    and communications equipment. Our customers also include PC and
    network communications products users who buy PC components and
    our other products through distributor, reseller, retail, and
    OEM channels throughout the world. In certain instances, we have
    entered into supply agreements to continue to manufacture and
    sell products of divested business lines to acquiring companies
    during certain transition periods.

Our worldwide reseller sales
    channel consists of thousands of indirect customers, systems
    builders that purchase Intel microprocessors and other products
    from our distributors. We have a boxed processor program that
    allows distributors to sell Intel microprocessors in small
    quantities to these systems-builder customers; boxed processors
    are also available in direct retail outlets.

In 2009, Hewlett-Packard Company
    accounted for 21% of our net revenue (20% in 2008 and 17% in
    2007) and Dell Inc. accounted for 17% of our net revenue (18% in
    2008 and 2007). No other customer accounted for more than 10% of
    our net revenue. For information about revenue and operating
    income by operating segment, and revenue from unaffiliated
    customers by geographic region/country, see  Results of
    Operations  in Part II, Item 7 and  Note 29: Operating
    Segment and Geographic Information  in Part II, Item 8 of
    this Form
     10-K. 

Sales
    Arrangements   

Our products are sold or licensed
    through sales offices throughout the world. Sales of our
    products are typically made via purchase orders that contain
    standard terms and conditions covering matters such as pricing,
    payment terms, and warranties, as well as indemnities for issues
    specific to our products, such as patent and copyright
    indemnities. From time to time, we may enter into additional
    agreements with customers covering, for example, changes from
    our standard terms and conditions, new product development and
    marketing, private-label branding, and other matters. Most of
    our sales are made using electronic and web-based processes that
    allow the customer to review inventory availability and track
    the progress of specific goods ordered. Pricing on particular
    products may vary based on volumes ordered and other factors. We
    also offer discounts, rebates, and other incentives to customers
    to increase acceptance of our products and technology.

Our products are typically shipped
    under terms that transfer title to the customer, even in
    arrangements for which the recognition of revenue and related
    costs of sales is deferred. Our standard terms and conditions of
    sale typically provide that payment is due at a later date,
    generally 30 days after shipment or delivery. Our credit
    department sets accounts receivable and shipping limits for
    individual customers to control credit risk to Intel arising
    from outstanding account balances. We assess credit risk through
    quantitative and qualitative analysis, and from this analysis,
    we establish credit limits and determine whether we will seek to
    use one or more credit support devices, such as obtaining some
    form of third-party guaranty or standby letter of credit, or
    obtaining credit insurance for all or a portion of the account
    balance if necessary. Credit losses may still be incurred due to
    bankruptcy, fraud, or other failure of the customer to pay. For
    information about our allowance for doubtful receivables, see
     Schedule II Valuation and Qualifying Accounts 
    in Part IV of this Form
     10-K. 

Most of our sales to distributors
    are made under agreements allowing for price protection on
    unsold merchandise and a right of return on stipulated
    quantities of unsold merchandise. Under the price protection
    program, we give distributors credits for the difference between
    the original price paid and the current price that we offer. On
    most products, there is no contractual limit on the amount of
    price protection, nor is there a limit on the time horizon under
    which price protection is granted. The right of return granted
    generally consists of a stock rotation program in which
    distributors are able to exchange certain products based on the
    number of qualified purchases made by the distributor. Although
    we have the option to grant credit for, repair, or replace
    defective products, there is no contractual limit on the amount
    of credit granted to a distributor.

9

Table of Contents   

Distribution   

Typically, distributors handle a
    wide variety of products, including those that compete with our
    products, and fill orders for many customers. We also utilize
    third-party sales representatives who generally do not offer
    directly competitive products but may carry complementary items
    manufactured by others. Sales representatives do not maintain a
    product inventory; instead, their customers place orders
    directly with us or through distributors. Several distribution
    warehouses are located in close proximity to key customers.

Backlog   

We do not believe that backlog as
    of any particular date is meaningful, as our sales are made
    primarily pursuant to standard purchase orders for delivery of
    products. Only a small portion of our orders is non-cancelable,
    and the dollar amount associated with the non-cancelable portion
    is not significant.

Seasonal
    Trends   

Our microprocessor sales generally
    have followed a seasonal trend. Historically, our sales have
    been higher in the second half of the year than in the first
    half of the year. Consumer purchases of PCs have historically
    been higher in the second half of the year, primarily due to
     back-to-school 
    and holiday demand. In addition, purchases from businesses have
    also historically tended to be higher in the second half of the
    year.

Marketing   

Our corporate marketing objectives
    are to build a strong Intel corporate brand that connects with
    consumers, and have a limited number of meaningful and valuable
    brands in our portfolio to aid businesses and consumers in
    making informed choices and to make technology purchase
    decisions easier for them. The Intel Core processor family and
    the Intel Atom, Intel Pentium, Intel Celeron, Intel Xeon, and
    Intel Itanium trademarks make up our processor brands.

We promote brand awareness and
    generate demand through our own direct marketing as well as
    co-marketing programs. Our direct marketing activities include
    television, print, and web-based advertising, as well as press
    relations, consumer and trade events, and industry and consumer
    communications. We market to consumer and business audiences,
    and focus on building awareness and generating demand for
    increased performance, power efficiency, and new capabilities.

Purchases by customers often allow
    them to participate in cooperative advertising and marketing
    programs such as the Intel
    Inside   

    Program. This program broadens the reach of our brands beyond
    the scope of our own direct advertising. Through the Intel
    Inside Program, certain customers are licensed to place Intel
    logos on computers containing our microprocessors and processor
    technologies, and to use our brands in marketing activities. The
    program includes a market development component that accrues
    funds based on purchases and partially reimburses the OEMs for
    marketing activities for products featuring Intel brands,
    subject to the OEMs meeting defined criteria. These marketing
    activities primarily include television, print, and an increased
    focus on web-based marketing. We have also entered into joint
    marketing arrangements with certain customers.

Competition  

The semiconductor industry is
    dynamic, characterized by rapid advances in technology and
    frequent product introductions. As unit volumes of a product
    grow, production experience is accumulated and costs typically
    decrease, further competition develops, and prices decline. The
    life cycle of our products is very short, sometimes less than a
    year. These short product life cycles and other factors lead to
    frequent negotiations with our OEM customers, which typically
    are large, sophisticated buyers who are also operating in very
    competitive environments. Our ability to compete depends on our
    ability to navigate this environment, by improving our products
    and processes faster than our competitors, anticipating changing
    customer requirements, developing and launching new products and
    platforms, pricing our products competitively, and reducing
    average unit costs. See  Risk Factors  in Part I, Item
    1A of this Form
     10-K. 

Our products compete primarily
    based on performance, features, price, quality, reliability,
    brand recognition, and availability. We are focused on offering
    innovative products and worldwide support for our customers at
    competitive prices, including providing improved
    energy-efficient performance, enhanced security, manageability,
    and integrated solutions. We believe that our platform strategy
    provides us with a competitive advantage. We offer platforms
    that incorporate various components designed and configured to
    work together to provide an optimized user computing solution
    compared to components that are used separately.

10

Table of Contents   

We believe that our network of
    manufacturing facilities and assembly and test facilities gives
    us a competitive advantage. This network enables us to have more
    direct control over our processes, quality control, product
    cost, volume, timing of production, and other factors. These
    facilities require significant up-front capital spending and
    therefore make it difficult for us to reduce our costs in the
    short-term. Many of our competitors do not own such facilities
    because they may not be able to afford to do so or because their
    business models involve the use of third-party foundries and
    assembly and test subcontractors for manufacturing and assembly
    and test. The third-party foundries and subcontractors may also
    offer intellectual property, design services, and other goods
    and services to our competitors. These  fabless
    semiconductor companies  include Broadcom Corporation,
    NVIDIA Corporation, QUALCOMM Incorporated, and VIA Technologies,
    Inc. (VIA). Some of our competitors own portions of such
    facilities through investment or joint-venture arrangements with
    other companies.

We plan to continue to cultivate
    new businesses and work with the computing and communications
    industries through standards bodies, trade associations, OEMs,
    ODMs, and independent software and operating system vendors to
    help align the industry to offer products that take advantage of
    the latest market trends and usage models. We frequently
    participate in industry initiatives designed to discuss and
    agree upon technical specifications and other aspects of
    technologies that could be adopted as standards by
    standards-setting organizations. Our competitors may also
    participate in the same initiatives and specification
    development. Our participation does not ensure that any
    standards or specifications adopted by these organizations will
    be consistent with our product planning.

Microprocessors   

We continue to be largely
    dependent on the success of our microprocessor business. Our
    ability to compete depends on our ability to deliver new
    microprocessor products with increased performance capabilities
    and improved energy-efficient performance at competitive prices.
    Some of our microprocessor competitors, such as Advanced Micro
    Devices, Inc. (AMD), market software-compatible products that
    compete with our processors. We also face competition from
    companies offering rival architecture designs, such as Cell
    Broadband Engine Architecture developed jointly by International
    Business Machines Corporation (IBM), Sony Corporation, and
    Toshiba Corporation; Power Architecture* offered by IBM; ARM*
    architecture developed by ARM Limited; and Scalable Processor
    Architecture (SPARC*) offered by Sun Microsystems, Inc. (a
    subsidiary of Oracle Corporation). In addition, NVIDIA is
    seeking to position its graphics processors to compete with
    microprocessors, by shifting some of a microprocessor s
    workload to its graphics processor.

While AMD has been our primary
    competitor in the market segments for microprocessors used in
    notebooks, desktops, and servers, QUALCOMM and other companies
    using ARM-based designs are our primary competitors in the
    growing market segment for microprocessors used in handhelds,
    including smartphones and MIDs. Our ability to compete with
    QUALCOMM and other competitors in this market segment depends on
    our ability to design and produce high-performance,
    energy-efficient microprocessors at competitive prices. It also
    requires us to develop a software ecosystem that appeals to end
    users and software developers. We have taken a number of steps
    to build this software ecosystem, including developing the
    Moblin  tm    -based

    operating system and subsequently combining it with Nokia
    Corporation s Maemo* software platform to create MeeGo*, a
    Linux-based software platform that will run on multiple hardware
    platforms; acquiring Wind River Systems, Inc.; and creating the
    Intel   

    Atom  tm    

    Developer Program. In addition, in 2009 we entered into product
    development collaborations with LG Electronics, Inc. and Nokia.

The following is a list of our
    main microprocessor competitors by market segment:

Notebook: AMD and VIA

Netbook: AMD, NVIDIA, QUALCOMM,
    and VIA

Desktop: AMD and VIA

Server/Workstation: AMD, IBM, and
    Sun Microsystems

Embedded: AMD, Freescale
    Semiconductor, Inc., and Texas Instruments Incorporated

Handheld: QUALCOMM

Chipsets   

Our chipsets compete with chipsets
    produced by companies such as AMD (including chipsets marketed
    under the ATI Technologies, Inc. brand), Broadcom, NVIDIA,
    Silicon Integrated Systems Corporation, and VIA. We also compete
    with companies offering graphics components and other
    special-purpose products used in the notebook, netbook, desktop,
    and server market segments. One aspect of our business model is
    to incorporate improved performance and advanced properties into
    our microprocessors and chipsets, for which demand may
    increasingly be affected by competition from companies whose
    business models are based on dedicated chipsets and other
    components, such as graphics controllers.

11

Table of Contents   

Flash
    Memory   

Our NAND flash memory products
    currently compete with NAND products primarily manufactured by
    Hynix Semiconductor Inc., Micron, Samsung Electronics Co., Ltd.,
    SanDisk Corporation, and Toshiba.

Connectivity   

We offer products designed for
    wireless and wired connectivity; the communications
    infrastructure, including network processors; and networked
    storage. Our WiFi and WiMAX products currently compete with
    products manufactured by Atheros Communications, Inc., Broadcom,
    QUALCOMM, and other smaller companies.

Competition
    Lawsuits and Government Matters   

We are currently a party to a
    variety of lawsuits and government matters involving our
    competitive practices. See  Note 28: Contingencies  in
    Part II, Item 8 of this Form
     10-K. 

Acquisitions
    and Strategic Investments  

During 2009, we completed the
    acquisition of Wind River Systems, Inc., a vendor of software
    for embedded devices. The objective of the acquisition of Wind
    River Systems was to enable the introduction of products for the
    embedded and handheld market segments, resulting in benefits for
    our existing operations. See  Note 15: Acquisitions 
    in Part II, Item 8 of this Form
     10-K. 

Intellectual
    Property and Licensing  

Intellectual property rights that
    apply to our various products and services include patents,
    copyrights, trade secrets, trademarks, and maskwork rights. We
    maintain a program to protect our investment in technology by
    attempting to ensure respect for our intellectual property
    rights. The extent of the legal protection given to different
    types of intellectual property rights varies under different
    countries  legal systems. We intend to license our
    intellectual property rights where we can obtain adequate
    consideration. See  Competition  earlier in this
    section,  Risk Factors  in Part I, Item 1A, and
     Note 28: Contingencies  in Part II, Item 8 of this
    Form  10-K. 

We have filed and obtained a
    number of patents in the U.S. and other countries. While our
    patents are an important element of our success, our business as
    a whole is not significantly dependent on any one patent. We and
    other companies in the computing, telecommunications, and
    related high-technology fields typically apply for and receive,
    in the aggregate, tens of thousands of overlapping patents
    annually in the U.S. and other countries. We believe that the
    duration of the applicable patents that we are granted is
    adequate relative to the expected lives of our products. Because
    of the fast pace of innovation and product development, our
    products are often obsolete before the patents related to them
    expire, and sometimes are obsolete before the patents related to
    them are even granted. As we expand our product offerings into
    new industries, we also seek to extend our patent development
    efforts to patent such product offerings. Established
    competitors in existing and new industries, as well as companies
    that purchase and enforce patents and other intellectual
    property, may already have patents covering similar products.
    There is no assurance that we will be able to obtain patents
    covering our own products, or that we will be able to obtain
    licenses from such companies on favorable terms or at all.

The majority of the software that
    we distribute, including software embedded in our component- and
    system-level products, is entitled to copyright protection. To
    distinguish Intel products from our competitors  products,
    we have obtained certain trademarks and trade names for our
    products, and we maintain cooperative advertising programs with
    certain customers to promote our brands and to identify products
    containing genuine Intel components. We also protect certain
    details about our processes, products, and strategies as trade
    secrets, keeping confidential the information that we believe
    provides us with a competitive advantage. We have ongoing
    programs designed to maintain the confidentiality of such
    information.

Compliance
    with Environmental, Health, and Safety Regulations  

Our compliance efforts focus on
    monitoring regulatory and resource trends and setting
    company-wide performance targets for key resources and
    emissions. These targets address several parameters, including
    product design; chemical, energy, and water use; climate change;
    waste recycling; and emissions.

12

Table of Contents   

Intel focuses on reducing natural
    resource use, the solid and chemical waste by-products of our
    manufacturing processes, and the environmental impact of our
    products. We currently use a variety of materials in our
    manufacturing process that have the potential to adversely
    impact the environment and are subject to a variety of EHS laws
    and regulations. For example, lead and halogenated materials
    (such as certain flame retardants and plastics) have been used
    by the electronics industry for decades. Finding suitable
    replacements has been a technical challenge for the industry,
    and we have worked for years with our suppliers and others in
    the industry to develop lead-free and halogen-free solutions.

We work with the U.S.
    Environmental Protection Agency (EPA), non-governmental
    organizations, OEMs, and retailers to help manage
     e-waste 
    (which includes electronic products nearing the end of their
    useful lives) and promote recycling. The European Union (EU)
    requires producers of certain electrical and electronic
    equipment to develop programs that allow consumers to return
    products for recycling. Many states in the U.S. have similar
     e-waste 
    take-back laws. The inconsistency of many
     e-waste 
    take-back laws and the lack of local
     e-waste 
    management options in many areas pose a challenge for our
    compliance efforts. To mitigate these problems, we communicate
    with our distributors to determine available options for
    complying with
     e-waste  laws.

Intel seeks to reduce our global
    greenhouse gas emissions by investing in energy conservation
    projects in our factories and working with suppliers to improve
    energy efficiency. We take a holistic approach to power
    management, addressing the challenge at the silicon, package,
    circuit, micro/macro architecture, platform, and software
    levels. We recognize that climate change may cause general
    economic risk. For further information on the risks of climate
    change, see  Risk Factors  in Part I, Item 1A of this
    Form  10-K. 
    We routinely monitor energy costs to understand the long-range
    impacts that rising costs may have on our business. We see the
    potential for higher energy costs driven by climate change
    regulations. This could include items applied to utilities that
    are passed along to customers, such as carbon taxes or costs
    associated with emission cap and trade programs or renewable
    portfolio standards. In particular, regulations associated with
    the Western Climate Initiative could have an impact on our
    company, because a number of our large manufacturing facilities
    are located in the western U.S. Proposed regulations by the EPA
    could impact our ability to obtain modifications in a timely
    manner for existing air permits at our manufacturing facilities
    in the U.S. Similarly, our operations in Ireland are already
    subject to the EU s mandatory cap and trade scheme for
    global-warming emissions. All of our sites also may be impacted
    by utility programs directed by legislation or regulatory or
    other pressures that are targeted to pass costs through to users.

We maintain business recovery
    plans that are intended to ensure our ability to recover from
    natural disasters or other events that can be disruptive to our
    business. Many of our operations are located in semi-arid
    regions, such as Israel and the southwestern U.S. Some climate
    change scenarios predict that such regions can become even more
    vulnerable to prolonged droughts. We have had an aggressive
    water conservation program in place for many years. We believe
    that our water conservation and recovery programs will help
    reduce our risk if water availability becomes more constrained
    in the future. We further maintain long-range plans to identify
    potential future water conservation actions that we can take.

We are committed to sustainability
    and take a leadership position in promoting voluntary
    environmental initiatives and working proactively with
    governments, environmental groups, and industry to promote
    global environmental sustainability. We believe that technology
    will be fundamental to finding solutions to the world s
    environmental challenges, and we are joining forces with
    industry, business, and governments to find and promote ways
    that technology can be used as a tool to combat climate change.

For several years, we have been
    evaluating  green  design standards and incorporating
    green building concepts and practices into the construction of
    our buildings. We are in the process of obtaining Leadership in
    Energy and Environmental Design (LEED) certification for an
    office building under construction in Israel and a newly
    constructed fabrication building in Arizona. We have been
    purchasing wind power and other forms of renewable energy at
    some of our major sites for several years. At the beginning of
    2008, we announced plans to purchase renewable energy
    certificates under a multi-year contract. The purchase placed
    Intel at the top of the EPA s Green Power Partnership for
    2008 and 2009. The purchase was intended to help stimulate the
    market for green power, leading to additional generating
    capacity and, ultimately, lower costs.

13

Table of Contents   

Executive
    Officers of the Registrant  

The following sets forth certain
    information with regard to our executive officers as of February
    22, 2010 (ages are as of December 26, 2009):

14

Table of Contents   

ITEM
    1A.        

RISK
    FACTORS  

Fluctuations
    in demand for our products may harm our financial results and
    are difficult to forecast.   

If demand for our products
    fluctuates as a result of economic conditions or for other
    reasons, our revenue and profitability could be harmed.
    Important factors that could cause demand for our products to
    fluctuate include:

changes in business and economic
    conditions, including downturns in the semiconductor industry
     and/or  the
    overall economy;

changes in consumer confidence
    caused by changes in market conditions, including changes in the
    credit market, expectations for inflation, and energy prices;

changes in the level of
    customers  components inventories;

competitive pressures, including
    pricing pressures, from companies that have competing products,
    chip architectures, manufacturing technologies, and marketing
    programs;

changes in customer product needs;

strategic actions taken by our
    competitors; and

market acceptance of our products.

If product demand decreases, our
    manufacturing or assembly and test capacity could be
    underutilized, and we may be required to record an impairment on
    our long-lived assets, including facilities and equipment as
    well as intangible assets, which would increase our expenses. In
    addition, if product demand decreases or we fail to forecast
    demand accurately, we could be required to write off inventory
    or record underutilization charges, which would have a negative
    impact on our gross margin. Factory-planning decisions may
    shorten the useful lives of long-lived assets, including
    facilities and equipment, and cause us to accelerate
    depreciation. In the long term, if product demand increases, we
    may not be able to add manufacturing or assembly and test
    capacity fast enough to meet market demand. These changes in
    demand for our products, and changes in our customers 
    product needs, could have a variety of negative effects on our
    competitive position and our financial results, and, in certain
    cases, may reduce our revenue, increase our costs, lower our
    gross margin percentage, or require us to recognize impairments
    of our assets.

Litigation
    or regulatory proceedings could harm our business.   

We may be subject to legal claims
    or regulatory matters involving stockholder, consumer,
    competition, and other issues on a global basis. As described in
     Note 28: Contingencies  in Part II, Item 8 of this
    Form  10-K, 
    we are currently engaged in a number of litigation and
    regulatory matters, particularly with respect to competition.
    Litigation and regulatory proceedings are subject to inherent
    uncertainties, and unfavorable rulings could occur. An
    unfavorable ruling could include monetary damages or, in cases
    for which injunctive relief is sought, an injunction prohibiting
    us from manufacturing or selling one or more products,
    precluding particular business practices, or requiring other
    remedies, such as compulsory licensing of intellectual property.
    If we were to receive an unfavorable ruling in a matter, our
    business and results of operations could be materially harmed.

The
    semiconductor industry and our operations are characterized by a
    high percentage of costs that are fixed or difficult to reduce
    in the short term, and by product demand that is highly variable
    and subject to significant downturns that may harm our business,
    results of operations, and financial condition.   

The semiconductor industry and our
    operations are characterized by high costs, such as those
    related to facility construction and equipment, R D, and
    employment and training of a highly skilled workforce, that are
    either fixed or difficult to reduce in the short term. At the
    same time, demand for our products is highly variable and there
    have been downturns, often in connection with maturing product
    cycles as well as downturns in general economic market
    conditions. These downturns have been characterized by reduced
    product demand, manufacturing overcapacity and resulting
    underutilization charges, high inventory levels, and lower
    average selling prices. The combination of these factors may
    cause our revenue, gross margin, cash flow, and profitability to
    vary significantly in both the short and long term.

15

Table of Contents   

We
    operate in intensely competitive industries, and our failure to
    respond quickly to technological developments and incorporate
    new features into our products could harm our ability to
    compete.   

We operate in intensely
    competitive industries that experience rapid technological
    developments, changes in industry standards, changes in customer
    requirements, and frequent new product introductions and
    improvements. If we are unable to respond quickly and
    successfully to these developments, we may lose our competitive
    position, and our products or technologies may become
    uncompetitive or obsolete. To compete successfully, we must
    maintain a successful R D effort, develop new products and
    production processes, and improve our existing products and
    processes at the same pace or ahead of our competitors. Our
    R D efforts are aimed at solving increasingly complex
    problems, and we do not expect that all of our projects will be
    successful. If our R D efforts are unsuccessful, our future
    results of operations could be materially harmed. We may not be
    able to develop and market these new products successfully, the
    products we invest in and develop may not be well received by
    customers, and products developed and new technologies offered
    by others may affect demand for our products. These types of
    events could have a variety of negative effects on our
    competitive position and our financial results, such as reducing
    our revenue, increasing our costs, lowering our gross margin
    percentage, and requiring us to recognize impairments on our
    assets.

We
    invest in companies for strategic reasons and may not realize a
    return on our investments.   

We make investments in companies
    around the world to further our strategic objectives and support
    our key business initiatives. Such investments include equity or
    debt instruments of public or private companies, and many of
    these instruments are non-marketable at the time of our initial
    investment. These companies range from early-stage companies
    that are often still defining their strategic direction to more
    mature companies with established revenue streams and business
    models. The success of these companies is dependent on product
    development, market acceptance, operational efficiency, and
    other key business factors. The companies in which we invest may
    fail because they may not be able to secure additional funding,
    obtain favorable investment terms for future financings, or take
    advantage of liquidity events such as public offerings, mergers,
    and private sales. If any of these private companies fail, we
    could lose all or part of our investment in that company. If we
    determine that an
     other-than-temporary 
    decline in the fair value exists for an equity or debt
    investment in a public or private company in which we have
    invested, we write down the investment to its fair value and
    recognize the related
     write-down 
    as an investment loss. We have significant investments in
    companies in the flash memory market segment, and declines in
    this market segment or changes in management s plans with
    respect to our investments in this market segment could result
    in significant impairment charges, impacting gains (losses) on
    equity method investments and gains (losses) on other equity
    investments.

Furthermore, when the strategic
    objectives of an investment have been achieved, or if the
    investment or business diverges from our strategic objectives,
    we may decide to dispose of the investment. Our non-marketable
    equity investments in private companies are not liquid, and we
    may not be able to dispose of these investments on favorable
    terms or at all. The occurrence of any of these events could
    harm our results. Additionally, for cases in which we are
    required under equity method accounting to recognize a
    proportionate share of another company s income or loss,
    such income or loss may impact our earnings. Gains or losses
    from equity securities could vary from expectations depending on
    gains or losses realized on the sale or exchange of securities,
    gains or losses from equity method investments, and impairment
    charges related to debt instruments as well as equity and other
    investments.

Our
    results of operations could vary as a result of the methods,
    estimates, and judgments that we use in applying our accounting
    policies.   

The methods, estimates, and
    judgments that we use in applying our accounting policies have a
    significant impact on our results of operations (see
     Critical Accounting Estimates  in Part II, Item 7 of
    this Form
     10-K).  Such
    methods, estimates, and judgments are, by their nature, subject
    to substantial risks, uncertainties, and assumptions, and
    factors may arise over time that lead us to change our methods,
    estimates, and judgments. Changes in those methods, estimates,
    and judgments could significantly affect our results of
    operations.

Fluctuations
    in the mix of products sold may harm our financial
    results.   

Because of the wide price
    differences among and within notebook, netbook, desktop, and
    server microprocessors, the mix and types of performance
    capabilities of microprocessors sold affect the average selling
    price of our products and have a substantial impact on our
    revenue and gross margin. Our financial results also depend in
    part on the mix of other products that we sell, such as
    chipsets, flash memory, and other semiconductor products. In
    addition, more recently introduced products tend to have higher
    associated costs because of initial overall development and
    production ramp. Fluctuations in the mix and types of our
    products may also affect the extent to which we are able to
    recover the fixed costs and investments associated with a
    particular product, and as a result can harm our financial
    results.

16

Table of Contents   

Our
    global operations subject us to risks that may harm our results
    of operations and financial condition.   

We have sales offices, R D,
    manufacturing, and assembly and test facilities in many
    countries, and as a result, we are subject to risks that may
    limit our ability to manufacture, assemble and test, design,
    develop, or sell products in particular countries, which could,
    in turn, harm our results of operations and financial condition,
    including:

security concerns, such as armed
    conflict and civil or military unrest, crime, political
    instability, and terrorist activity;

health concerns;

natural disasters;

inefficient and limited
    infrastructure and disruptions, such as large-scale outages or
    interruptions of service from utilities or telecommunications
    providers and supply chain interruptions;

differing employment practices and
    labor issues;

local business and cultural
    factors that differ from our normal standards and practices;

regulatory requirements and
    prohibitions that differ between jurisdictions; and

restrictions on our operations by
    governments seeking to support local industries, nationalization
    of our operations, and restrictions on our ability to repatriate
    earnings.

In addition, although
    substantially all of our products are sold in U.S. dollars, we
    incur a significant amount of certain types of expenses, such as
    payroll, utilities, tax, and marketing expenses, as well as
    conduct certain investing and financing activities, in local
    currencies. Our hedging programs reduce, but do not entirely
    eliminate, the impact of currency exchange rate movements, and
    therefore fluctuations in exchange rates could harm our results
    of operations and financial condition. In addition, changes in
    tariff and import regulations and in U.S. and
     non-U.S. 
    monetary policies may harm our results of operations and
    financial condition by increasing our expenses and reducing our
    revenue. Varying tax rates in different jurisdictions could harm
    our results of operations and financial condition by increasing
    our overall tax rate.

We maintain a program of insurance
    coverage for various types of property, casualty, and other
    risks. We place our insurance coverage with various carriers in
    numerous jurisdictions. However, there is a risk that one or
    more of our insurance providers may be unable to pay a claim.
    The types and amounts of insurance that we obtain vary from time
    to time and from location to location, depending on
    availability, cost, and our decisions with respect to risk
    retention. The policies are subject to deductibles and
    exclusions that result in our retention of a level of risk on a
    self-insurance basis. Losses not covered by insurance may be
    substantial and may increase our expenses, which could harm our
    results of operations and financial condition.

Failure
    to meet our production targets, resulting in undersupply or
    oversupply of products, may harm our business and results of
    operations.   

Production of integrated circuits
    is a complex process. Disruptions in this process can result
    from interruptions in our processes, errors, and difficulties in
    our development and implementation of new processes; defects in
    materials; disruptions in our supply of materials or resources;
    and disruptions at our fabrication and assembly and test
    facilities due to, for example, accidents, maintenance issues,
    or unsafe working conditions all of which could affect the
    timing of production ramps and yields. We may not be successful
    or efficient in developing or implementing new production
    processes. The occurrence of any of the foregoing may result in
    our failure to meet or increase production as desired, resulting
    in higher costs or substantial decreases in yields, which could
    affect our ability to produce sufficient volume to meet specific
    product demand. The unavailability or reduced availability of
    certain products could make it more difficult to implement our
    platform strategy. We may also experience increases in yields. A
    substantial increase in yields could result in higher inventory
    levels and the possibility of resulting underutilization charges
    as we slow production to reduce inventory levels. The occurrence
    of any of these events could harm our business and results of
    operations.

We may
    have difficulties obtaining the resources or products we need
    for manufacturing, assembling and testing our products, or
    operating other aspects of our business, which could harm our
    ability to meet demand for our products and may increase our
    costs.   

We have thousands of suppliers
    providing various materials that we use in the production of our
    products and other aspects of our business, and we seek, where
    possible, to have several sources of supply for all of those
    materials. However, we may rely on a single or a limited number
    of suppliers, or upon suppliers in a single country, for these
    materials. The inability of such suppliers to deliver adequate
    supplies of production materials or other supplies could disrupt
    our production processes or could make it more difficult for us
    to implement our business strategy. In addition, production
    could be disrupted by the unavailability of the resources used
    in production, such as water, silicon, electricity, and gases.
    Future environmental regulations could restrict the supply or
    increase the cost of certain of the materials that we currently
    use in our business. The unavailability or reduced availability
    of the materials or resources that we use in our business may
    require us to reduce production of products or may require us to
    incur additional costs in order to obtain an adequate supply of
    those materials or resources. The occurrence of any of these
    events could harm our business and results of operations.

17

Table of Contents   

Costs
    related to product defects and errata may harm our results of
    operations and business.   

Costs associated with unexpected
    product defects and errata (deviations from published
    specifications) due to, for example, unanticipated problems in
    our manufacturing processes, include:

writing off the value of inventory
    of defective products;

disposing of defective products
    that cannot be fixed;

recalling defective products that
    have been shipped to customers;

providing product replacements
    for, or modifications to, defective products; and/or

defending against litigation
    related to defective products.

These costs could be substantial
    and may therefore increase our expenses and lower our gross
    margin. In addition, our reputation with our customers or users
    of our products could be damaged as a result of such product
    defects and errata, and the demand for our products could be
    reduced. These factors could harm our financial results and the
    prospects for our business.

We may
    be subject to claims of infringement of third-party intellectual
    property rights, which could harm our business.   

Third parties may assert against
    us or our customers alleged patent, copyright, trademark, or
    other intellectual property rights to technologies that are
    important to our business. As described in  Note 28:
    Contingencies  in Part II, Item 8 of this Form
     10-K,  we are
    currently engaged in a number of litigation matters involving
    intellectual property rights. We may be subject to intellectual
    property infringement claims from certain individuals and
    companies who have acquired patent portfolios for the sole
    purpose of asserting such claims against other companies. Any
    claims that our products or processes infringe the intellectual
    property rights of others, regardless of the merit or resolution
    of such claims, could cause us to incur significant costs in
    responding to, defending, and resolving such claims, and may
    divert the efforts and attention of our management and technical
    personnel from our business. As a result of such intellectual
    property infringement claims, we could be required or otherwise
    decide that it is appropriate to:

pay third-party infringement
    claims;

discontinue manufacturing, using,
    or selling particular products subject to infringement claims;

discontinue using the technology
    or processes subject to infringement claims;

develop other technology not
    subject to infringement claims, which could be time-consuming
    and costly or may not be possible; and/or

license technology from the third
    party claiming infringement, which license may not be available
    on commercially reasonable terms.

The occurrence of any of the
    foregoing could result in unexpected expenses or require us to
    recognize an impairment of our assets, which would reduce the
    value of our assets and increase expenses. In addition, if we
    alter or discontinue our production of affected items, our
    revenue could be harmed.

We may
    not be able to enforce or protect our intellectual property
    rights, which may harm our ability to compete and harm our
    business.   

Our ability to enforce our
    patents, copyrights, software licenses, and other intellectual
    property rights is subject to general litigation risks, as well
    as uncertainty as to the enforceability of our intellectual
    property rights in various countries. When we seek to enforce
    our rights, we are often subject to claims that the intellectual
    property right is invalid, is otherwise not enforceable, or is
    licensed to the party against whom we are asserting a claim. In
    addition, our assertion of intellectual property rights often
    results in the other party seeking to assert alleged
    intellectual property rights of its own or assert other claims
    against us, which could harm our business. If we are not
    ultimately successful in defending ourselves against these
    claims in litigation, we may not be able to sell a particular
    product or family of products due to an injunction, or we may
    have to pay damages that could, in turn, harm our results of
    operations. In addition, governments may adopt regulations, and
    governments or courts may render decisions, requiring compulsory
    licensing of intellectual property to others, or governments may
    require that products meet specified standards that serve to
    favor local companies. Our inability to enforce our intellectual
    property rights under these circumstances may harm our
    competitive position and our business.

18

Table of Contents   

We may
    be subject to intellectual property theft or misuse, which could
    result in third-party claims and harm our business and results
    of operations.   

We regularly face attempts by
    others to gain unauthorized access through the Internet to our
    information technology systems by, for example, masquerading as
    authorized users or surreptitious introduction of software.
    These attempts, which might be the result of industrial or other
    espionage, or actions by hackers seeking to harm the company,
    its products, or end users, are sometimes successful. One recent
    and sophisticated incident occurred in January 2010 around the
    same time as the recently publicized security incident reported
    by Google. We seek to detect and investigate these security
    incidents and to prevent their recurrence, but in some cases we
    might be unaware of an incident or its magnitude and effects.
    The theft and/or unauthorized use or publication of our trade
    secrets and other confidential business information as a result
    of such an incident could adversely affect our competitive
    position and reduce marketplace acceptance of our products; the
    value of our investment in R D, product development, and
    marketing could be reduced; and third parties might assert
    against us or our customers claims related to resulting losses
    of confidential or proprietary information or end-user data
    and/or system reliability. Our business could be subject to
    significant disruption, and we could suffer monetary and other
    losses, including the cost of product recalls and returns and
    reputational harm, in the event of such incidents and claims.

Our
    licenses with other companies and our participation in industry
    initiatives may allow other companies, including our
    competitors, to use our patent rights.   

Companies in the semiconductor
    industry often rely on the ability to license patents from each
    other in order to compete. Many of our competitors have broad
    licenses or cross-licenses with us, and under current case law,
    some of the licenses may permit these competitors to pass our
    patent rights on to others. If one of these licensees becomes a
    foundry, our competitors might be able to avoid our patent
    rights in manufacturing competing products. In addition, our
    participation in industry initiatives may require us to license
    our patents to other companies that adopt certain industry
    standards or specifications, even when such organizations do not
    adopt standards or specifications proposed by us. As a result,
    our patents implicated by our participation in industry
    initiatives might not be available for us to enforce against
    others who might otherwise be deemed to be infringing those
    patents, our costs of enforcing our licenses or protecting our
    patents may increase, and the value of our intellectual property
    may be impaired.

Decisions
    about the scope of operations of our business could affect our
    results of operations and financial condition.   

Changes in the business
    environment could lead to changes in our decisions about the
    scope of operations of our business, and these changes could
    result in restructuring and asset impairment charges. Factors
    that could cause actual results to differ materially from our
    expectations with regard to changing the scope of our operations
    include:

timing and execution of plans and
    programs that may be subject to local labor law requirements,
    including consultation with appropriate work councils;

changes in assumptions related to
    severance and postretirement costs;

future divestitures;

new business initiatives and
    changes in product roadmap, development, and manufacturing;

changes in employment levels and
    turnover rates;

changes in product demand and the
    business environment; and

changes in the fair value of
    certain long-lived assets.

Our
    acquisitions, divestitures, and other transactions could disrupt
    our ongoing business and harm our results of
    operations.   

In pursuing our business strategy,
    we routinely conduct discussions, evaluate opportunities, and
    enter into agreements regarding possible investments,
    acquisitions, divestitures, and other transactions, such as
    joint ventures. Acquisitions and other transactions involve
    significant challenges and risks, including risks that:

we may not be able to identify
    suitable opportunities at terms acceptable to us;

the transaction may not advance
    our business strategy;

we may not realize a satisfactory
    return on the investment we make;

we may not be able to retain key
    personnel of the acquired business; or

we may experience difficulty in
    integrating new employees, business systems, and technology.

When we decide to sell assets or a
    business, we may encounter difficulty in finding or completing
    divestiture opportunities or alternative exit strategies on
    acceptable terms in a timely manner, and the agreed terms and
    financing arrangements could be renegotiated due to changes in
    business or market conditions. These circumstances could delay
    the accomplishment of our strategic objectives or cause us to
    incur additional expenses with respect to businesses that we
    want to dispose of, or we may dispose of a business at a price
    or on terms that are less favorable than we had anticipated,
    resulting in a loss on the transaction.

19

Table of Contents   

If we do enter into agreements
    with respect to acquisitions, divestitures, or other
    transactions, we may fail to complete them due to:

failure to obtain required
    regulatory or other approvals;

intellectual property or other
    litigation;

difficulties that we or other
    parties may encounter in obtaining financing for the
    transaction; or

other factors.

Further, acquisitions,
    divestitures, and other transactions require substantial
    management resources and have the potential to divert our
    attention from our existing business. These factors could harm
    our business and results of operations.

In
    order to compete, we must attract, retain, and motivate key
    employees, and our failure to do so could harm our results of
    operations.   

In order to compete, we must
    attract, retain, and motivate executives and other key
    employees. Hiring and retaining qualified executives,
    scientists, engineers, technical staff, and sales
    representatives are critical to our business, and competition
    for experienced employees in the semiconductor industry can be
    intense. To help attract, retain, and motivate qualified
    employees, we use share-based incentive awards such as employee
    stock options and non-vested share units (restricted stock
    units). If the value of such stock awards does not appreciate as
    measured by the performance of the price of our common stock, or
    if our share-based compensation otherwise ceases to be viewed as
    a valuable benefit, our ability to attract, retain, and motivate
    employees could be weakened, which could harm our results of
    operations.

Our
    failure to comply with applicable environmental laws and
    regulations worldwide could harm our business and results of
    operations.   

The manufacturing and assembling
    and testing of our products require the use of hazardous
    materials that are subject to a broad array of EHS laws and
    regulations. Our failure to comply with any of those applicable
    laws or regulations could result in:

regulatory penalties, fines, and
    legal liabilities;

suspension of production;

alteration of our fabrication and
    assembly and test processes; and

curtailment of our operations or
    sales.

In addition, our failure to manage
    the use, transportation, emissions, discharge, storage,
    recycling, or disposal of hazardous materials could subject us
    to increased costs or future liabilities. Existing and future
    environmental laws and regulations could also require us to
    acquire pollution abatement or remediation equipment, modify our
    product designs, or incur other expenses associated with such
    laws and regulations. Many new materials that we are evaluating
    for use in our operations may be subject to regulation under
    existing or future environmental laws and regulations that may
    restrict our use of one or more of such materials in our
    manufacturing, assembly and test processes, or products. Any of
    these restrictions could harm our business and results of
    operations by increasing our expenses or requiring us to alter
    our manufacturing and assembly and test processes.

Climate
    change poses both regulatory and physical risks that could harm
    our results of operations or affect the way we conduct our
    business.   

In addition to the possible direct
    economic impact that climate change could have on us, climate
    change mitigation programs and regulations can increase our
    costs. For example, the cost of perfluorocompounds (PFCs), a gas
    that we use in our manufacturing, could increase over time under
    some climate-change-focused emissions trading programs that may
    be imposed by government regulation. If the use of PFCs is
    prohibited, we would need to obtain substitute materials that
    may cost more or be less available for our manufacturing
    operations. In addition, air quality permit requirements for our
    manufacturing operations could become more burdensome and cause
    delays in our ability to modify our facilities. We also see the
    potential for higher energy costs driven by climate change
    regulations. Our costs could increase if utility companies pass
    on their costs, such as those associated with carbon taxes,
    emission cap and trade programs, or renewable portfolio
    standards. While we maintain business recovery plans that are
    intended to allow us to recover from natural disasters or other
    events that can be disruptive to our business, we cannot be sure
    that our plans will fully protect us from all such disasters or
    events. Many of our operations are located in semi-arid regions,
    such as Israel and the southwestern U.S. Some scenarios predict
    that these regions may become even more vulnerable to prolonged
    droughts due to climate change.

20

Table of Contents   

Changes
    in our effective tax rate may harm our results of
    operations.   

A number of factors may increase
    our future effective tax rates, including:

the jurisdictions in which profits
    are determined to be earned and taxed;

the resolution of issues arising
    from tax audits with various tax authorities;

changes in the valuation of our
    deferred tax assets and liabilities, and changes in deferred tax
    valuation allowances;

adjustments to income taxes upon
    finalization of various tax returns;

increases in expenses not
    deductible for tax purposes, including write-offs of acquired
    in-process research and development and impairments of goodwill
    in connection with acquisitions;

changes in available tax credits;

changes in tax laws or the
    interpretation of such tax laws, and changes in U.S. generally
    accepted accounting principles; and

our decision to repatriate
     non-U.S. 
    earnings for which we have not previously provided for U.S.
    taxes.

Any significant increase in our
    future effective tax rates could reduce net income for future
    periods.

Interest
    and other, net could be harmed by macroeconomic and other
    factors.   

Factors that could cause interest
    and other, net in our consolidated statements of operations to
    fluctuate include:

fixed-income, equity, and credit
    market volatility;

fluctuations in foreign currency
    exchange rates;

fluctuations in interest rates;

changes in our cash and investment
    balances; and

changes in our hedge accounting
    treatment.

ITEM
    1B.        

UNRESOLVED
    STAFF COMMENTS  

Not applicable.

ITEM
    2.        

PROPERTIES  

As of December 26, 2009, our major
    facilities consisted of:

1   

Leases on portions of the land used for these facilities
    expire at varying dates through 2062.  

2   

Leases expire at varying dates through 2028 and generally
    include renewals at our option.  

Our principal executive offices
    are located in the U.S. The majority of our wafer fabrication
    activities are also located in the U.S. Outside the U.S., we
    have wafer fabrication at our facilities in Ireland and Israel.
    In addition, we are building a new wafer fabrication facility in
    China that is expected to begin production in late 2010 or early
    2011. Our assembly and test facilities are located in Malaysia,
    China, and Costa Rica. We are building a new assembly and test
    facility in Vietnam that is expected to begin production in the
    second half of 2010. In addition, we have sales and marketing
    offices worldwide. These facilities are generally located near
    major concentrations of users.

With the exception of certain
    facilities placed for sale
     and/or 
    facilities included in our restructuring actions, we believe
    that our facilities detailed above are suitable and adequate for
    our present purposes (see  Note 19: Restructuring and Asset
    Impairment Charges  in Part II, Item 8 of this Form
     10-K). 
    Additionally, the productive capacity in our facilities is
    substantially being utilized or we have plans to utilize it.

We do not identify or allocate
    assets by operating segment. For information on net property,
    plant and equipment by country, see  Note 29: Operating
    Segment and Geographic Information  in Part II, Item 8 of
    this Form
     10-K. 

21

Table of Contents   

ITEM
    3.        

LEGAL
    PROCEEDINGS  

For a discussion of legal
    proceedings, see  Note 28: Contingencies  in Part II,
    Item 8 of this Form
     10-K. 

ITEM
    4.        

SUBMISSION
    OF MATTERS TO A VOTE OF SECURITY HOLDERS  

None.

PART
    II  

ITEM
    5.        

MARKET
    FOR REGISTRANT S COMMON EQUITY, RELATED STOCKHOLDER MATTERS
    AND ISSUER PURCHASES OF EQUITY SECURITIES  

Information regarding the market
    price range of Intel common stock and dividend information may
    be found in  Financial Information by Quarter
    (Unaudited)  in Part II, Item 8 of this Form
     10-K. 

As of February 5, 2010, there were
    175,000 registered holders of record of Intel s common
    stock. A substantially greater number of holders of Intel common
    stock are  street name  or beneficial holders, whose
    shares are held of record by banks, brokers, and other financial
    institutions.

Issuer
    Purchases of Equity Securities  

We have an ongoing authorization,
    amended in November 2005, from our Board of Directors to
    repurchase up to $25 billion in shares of our common stock in
    open market or negotiated transactions. As of December 26, 2009,
    $5.7 billion remained available for repurchase under the
    existing repurchase authorization.

Common stock repurchases under our
    authorized plan in each quarter of 2009 were as follows (in
    millions, except per share amounts):

Our purchases in 2009 were
    executed in privately negotiated transactions.

For the majority of restricted
    stock units granted, the number of shares issued on the date the
    restricted stock units vest is net of the minimum statutory
    withholding requirements that we pay in cash to the appropriate
    taxing authorities on behalf of our employees. These withheld
    shares are not included in the common stock repurchase totals in
    the table above. For further discussion, see  Note 24:
    Common Stock Repurchases  in Part II, Item 8 of this Form
     10-K. 

22

Table of Contents   

Stock Performance
    Graph  

The line graph below compares the
    cumulative total stockholder return on our common stock with the
    cumulative total return of the Dow Jones U.S. Technology Index*
    and the Standard   Poor s S P 500* Index for
    the five years ended December 26, 2009. The graph and table
    assume that $100 was invested on December 23, 2004 (the last day
    of trading for the year ended December 25, 2004) in each of our
    common stock, the Dow Jones U.S. Technology Index, and the
    S P 500 Index, and that all dividends were reinvested.
    Cumulative total stockholder returns for our common stock, the
    Dow Jones U.S. Technology Index, and the S P 500 Index are
    based on our fiscal year.

Comparison
    of Five-Year Cumulative Return for Intel, 
    the Dow Jones U.S. Technology Index*, and the S P 500*
    Index  

23

Table of Contents   

ITEM
    6.        

SELECTED
    FINANCIAL DATA  

1   

Beginning in 2006, we adopted new standards that changed the
    accounting for employee equity incentive plans requiring the
    recognition of share-based compensation.  

2   

As adjusted due to changes to the accounting for convertible
    debt instruments. See  Note 3: Accounting Changes  in
    Part II, Item 8 of this Form
     10-K.   

The ratio of earnings to fixed
    charges for each of the five years in the period ended December
    26, 2009 was as follows:

Fixed charges consist of interest
    expense, capitalized interest, and the estimated interest
    component of rental expense.

24

Table of Contents   

ITEM
    7.        

MANAGEMENT S
    DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF
    OPERATIONS  

Our Management s Discussion
    and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations
    (MD A) is provided in addition to the accompanying
    consolidated financial statements and notes to assist readers in
    understanding our results of operations, financial condition,
    and cash flows. MD A is organized as follows:

Overview.     Discussion
    of our business and overall analysis of financial and other
    highlights affecting the company in order to provide context for
    the remainder of MD A.

Strategy.     Overall
    strategy and the strategy for our major market segments.

Critical Accounting
    Estimates.     Accounting
    estimates that we believe are most important to understanding
    the assumptions and judgments incorporated in our reported
    financial results and forecasts.

Results of
    Operations.     Analysis
    of our financial results comparing 2009 to 2008 and comparing
    2008 to 2007. At the end of 2009, we reorganized our business to
    better align our major product groups around the core
    competencies of Intel architecture and our manufacturing
    operations. The analysis of our major operating segments 
    financial results reflects this reorganization and
     prior-period 
    analysis, and amounts have been adjusted retrospectively.

Business
    Outlook.     Our
    expectations for selected financial items for 2010.

Liquidity and Capital
    Resources.     An
    analysis of changes in our balance sheets and cash flows, and
    discussion of our financial condition and potential sources of
    liquidity.

Fair Value of Financial
    Instruments.     Discussion
    of the methodologies used in the valuation of our financial
    instruments.

Contractual Obligations and
    Off-Balance-Sheet
    Arrangements.     Overview
    of contractual obligations and contingent liabilities and
    commitments outstanding as of December 26, 2009, including
    expected payment schedule, and explanation of off-balance-sheet
    arrangements.

The various sections of this
    MD A contain a number of forward-looking statements. Words
    such as  expects,   goals, 
     plans,   believes,   continues, 
     may,   will,  and variations of such words
    and similar expressions are intended to identify such
    forward-looking statements. In addition, any statements that
    refer to projections of our future financial performance, our
    anticipated growth and trends in our businesses, and other
    characterizations of future events or circumstances are
    forward-looking statements. Such statements are based on our
    current expectations and could be affected by the uncertainties
    and risk factors described throughout this filing and
    particularly in the  Business Outlook  section (see
    also  Risk Factors  in Part I, Item 1A of this Form
     10-K).  Our
    actual results may differ materially, and these
     forward-looking 
    statements do not reflect the potential impact of any
    divestitures, mergers, acquisitions, or other business
    combinations that had not been completed as of February 22, 2010.

Overview  

Our goal is to be the preeminent
    provider of semiconductor chips and platforms for the worldwide
    digital economy. Our primary component-level products include
    microprocessors, chipsets, and flash memory. To better align our
    major product groups around the core competencies of Intel
    architecture and our manufacturing operations, we completed the
    reorganization of our business in the fourth quarter of 2009.
    Net revenue, gross margin, operating income, and net income for
    the fourth and third quarters of 2009, and fiscal year 2009 and
    2008 were as follows:

We started the year in one of the
    deepest recessions in our history and emerged from it with
    better products and technology in a strengthening market.
    Compared to the first quarter of 2008, revenue was down 26% in
    the first quarter of 2009, with the second and third quarters
    down 15% and 8%, respectively, compared to the second and third
    quarters of 2008. However, our fourth quarter results reflected
    a strengthening demand across all regions and all product
    categories, driven primarily by the notebook market segment.
    Fourth quarter revenue of $10.6 billion was up 13% compared to
    the third quarter, nearly twice the seasonal average, and up 28%
    compared to the fourth quarter of 2008.

25

Table of Contents   

MANAGEMENT S
    DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF
    OPERATIONS (Continued)  

The launch of our microprocessor
    products using 32nm process technology was strong in the fourth
    quarter and was one of the contributors to the increase in our
    overall microprocessor average selling prices compared to the
    third quarter. Our server products also had a strong quarter,
    and we saw a demand shift toward higher end products, which also
    contributed to the increase in our average selling prices.
    Despite these fourth quarter increases, our microprocessor
    average selling prices in 2009 were lower than in 2008, driven
    primarily by decreases in average selling prices in the notebook
    and desktop market segments.

With the launch of our 32nm
    products and fourth quarter record shipments of microprocessor
    units, we are entering 2010 in a strong competitive position as
    we continue delivering improvements in our product offerings
    through the  tick-tock  manufacturing process
    technology and product development cadence. Additionally, our
    Intel Atom processors and related chipsets continue their strong
    ramp, with revenue having increased nearly $900 million in 2009
    compared to 2008.

We believe our total inventory
    levels of $2.9 billion, though up compared to the third quarter
    of 2009, are appropriate based on our forecasts. We believe that
    OEM component inventories are roughly flat compared to the third
    quarter and below levels at the end of 2008. Additionally, our
    distributors  inventories are down compared to the third
    quarter.

Our fourth quarter gross margin
    percentage of 64.7% set a new quarterly record. The fourth
    quarter gross margin percentage compared to the third quarter
    was positively impacted by lower inventory write-offs, higher
    microprocessor average selling prices and unit sales, the lack
    of excess capacity charges, and improving unit costs. In the
    first quarter of 2010, we expect our gross margin percentage to
    decrease due to higher unit costs as we continue to ramp our
    32nm products, as well as seasonally lower microprocessor unit
    sales and lower microprocessor average selling prices.

In the fourth quarter of 2009, we
    made a $1.25 billion payment to AMD as part of a settlement to
    end all outstanding litigation between the companies, including
    antitrust litigation and cross-license patent disputes. Also in
    the fourth quarter of 2009, the New York Attorney General and
    the U.S. Federal Trade Commission filed antitrust suits against
    Intel. For further information on our litigation matters, see
     Note 28: Contingencies  in Part II, Item 8 of this
    Form  10-K. 

From a financial condition
    perspective, we ended 2009 with an investment portfolio of $13.9
    billion, consisting of cash and cash equivalents, debt
    instruments included in trading assets, and short-term
    investments. During 2009, we generated $11.2 billion in cash
    from operations despite paying the  1.06 billion ($1.447
    billion) European Commission fine recorded in the second quarter
    of 2009, and the AMD settlement recorded in the fourth quarter
    of 2009. During 2009, we issued $2.0 billion of convertible debt
    and utilized the proceeds from the convertible debt to
    repurchase $1.7 billion of common stock through our common stock
    repurchase program. In addition, during 2009 we returned $3.1
    billion to stockholders through dividends. In January 2010, our
    Board of Directors declared a dividend of $0.1575 per common
    share for the first quarter of 2010, an increase of 12.5%
    compared to our fourth quarter dividend.

In February 2010, we signed a
    definitive agreement with Micron and Numonyx under which Micron
    agreed to acquire Numonyx in an
     all-stock 
    transaction. For further information, see  Note 11:
    Non-Marketable Equity Investments  in Part II,
    Item 8 of this
     Form 10-K. 

26

Table of Contents   

MANAGEMENT S
    DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF
    OPERATIONS (Continued)  

Strategy  

Our goal is to be the preeminent
    provider of semiconductor chips and platforms for the worldwide
    digital economy. As part of our overall strategy to compete in
    each relevant market segment, we use our core competencies in
    the design and manufacture of integrated circuits, as well as
    our financial resources, global presence, brand recognition, and
    software development. We believe that we have the scale,
    capacity, and global reach to establish new technologies and
    respond to customers  needs quickly.

Some of our key focus areas are
    listed below:

Customer
    Orientation.     Our
    strategy focuses on developing our next generation of products
    based on the needs and expectations of our customers. In turn,
    our products help enable the design and development of new form
    factors and usage models for businesses and consumers. We offer
    platforms that incorporate various components designed and
    configured to work together to provide an optimized computing
    solution compared to components that are used separately.

Architecture and
    Platforms.     We
    are focusing on improved energy-efficient performance for
    computing and communications systems and devices. Improved
    energy-efficient performance involves balancing improved
    performance with lower power consumption. We continue to develop
    multi-core microprocessors with an increasing number of cores,
    which enable improved multitasking and energy efficiency. In
    addition, to meet the demands of new and evolving netbook,
    consumer electronics, and various embedded market segments, we
    offer and are continuing to develop SoC products that are
    designed to provide improved performance due to higher
    integration, lower power consumption, and smaller form factors.

Silicon and Manufacturing
    Technology
    Leadership.     Our
    strategy for developing microprocessors with improved
    performance is to synchronize the introduction of a new
    microarchitecture with improvements in silicon process
    technology. We plan to introduce a new microarchitecture
    approximately every two years and ramp the next generation of
    silicon process technology in the intervening years. This
    coordinated schedule allows us to develop and introduce new
    products based on a common microarchitecture quickly, without
    waiting for the next generation of silicon process technology.
    We refer to this as our  tick-tock  technology
    development cadence. In keeping with this cadence, we expect to
    introduce a new microarchitecture using our 32nm process
    technology in 2010.

Strategic
    Investments.     We
    make investments in companies around the world that we believe
    will generate financial returns, further our strategic
    objectives, and support our key business initiatives. Our
    investments, including those made through our Intel Capital
    program, generally focus on investing in companies and
    initiatives to stimulate growth in the digital economy, create
    new business opportunities for Intel, and expand global markets
    for our products. Our current investments primarily focus on the
    following areas: advancing flash memory products, enabling
    mobile wireless devices, advancing the digital home, enhancing
    the digital enterprise, advancing high-performance
    communications infrastructures, and developing the next
    generation of silicon process technologies.

Business Environment and
    Software.     We
    believe that we are well positioned in the technology industry
    to help drive innovation, foster collaboration, and promote
    industry standards that will yield innovation and improved
    technologies for users. We plan to continue to cultivate new
    businesses and work to encourage the industry to offer products
    that take advantage of the latest market trends and usage
    models. We frequently participate in industry initiatives
    designed to discuss and agree upon technical specifications and
    other aspects of technologies that could be adopted as standards
    by standards-setting organizations. Through our Software and
    Services Group, we help enable and advance the computing
    ecosystem by providing development tools and support to help
    software developers create software applications and operating
    systems that take advantage of our platforms. Lastly, we believe
    that the software expertise of our Wind River Software Group in
    the embedded and handheld market segments will expedite our
    growth strategy in these market segments.

We believe that the proliferation
    of the Internet, including user demand for premium content and
    rich media, drives the need for greater performance in PCs and
    servers. Older PCs are increasingly incapable of handling the
    tasks that businesses and individual consumers demand, such as
    streaming video, web conferencing, online gaming, and other
    memory-intensive applications. As these tasks become even more
    demanding and require more computing power, we believe that
    businesses and individual consumers will need and want to buy
    new PCs. We also believe that increased Internet traffic and the
    increasing use of cloud computing, in which a group of linked
    servers provide a variety of applications and data to users over
    the Internet, create a need for greater server infrastructure,
    including server products optimized for energy-efficient
    performance and virtualization.

27

Table of Contents   

MANAGEMENT S
    DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF
    OPERATIONS (Continued)  

We believe that the trend of
    mobile microprocessor unit growth outpacing the growth in
    desktop microprocessor units will continue and that the demand
    for mobile microprocessors will result in the increased
    development of products with form factors and uses that require
     low-power 
    microprocessors. We also believe that these products will result
    in demand that is incremental to that of microprocessors
    designed for notebook and desktop computers, as a growing number
    of households have multiple devices for different computing
    functions. Our silicon and manufacturing technology leadership
    allows us to develop low-power microprocessors for these and
    other new uses and form factors. We believe that Intel Atom
    processors give us the ability to extend Intel architecture and
    drive growth in new market segments, including a growing number
    of products that require processors specifically designed for
    embedded applications, handhelds, consumer electronics devices,
    and netbooks. We expect that our Intel Atom Developer Program
    will spur new applications that run on products using Intel Atom
    processors, which will expedite our growth strategy in these new
    market segments. The common elements for products in these new
    market segments are low power consumption and the ability to
    access the Internet.

We are also focusing on the
    development of a new highly scalable, many-core architecture
    aimed at parallel processing, the simultaneous use of multiple
    cores to execute a computing task. This architecture will
    initially be used as a software development platform for
    graphics and throughput computing (the need for large amounts of
    computing performance consistently over a long period of time).
    Over time, this architecture may be utilized in the development
    of products for scientific and professional workstations as well
    as high-performance computing applications.

In addition, we offer, and are
    continuing to develop, advanced NAND flash memory products,
    focusing on system-level solutions for Intel architecture
    platforms such as solid-state drives. In support of our strategy
    to provide advanced flash memory products, we continue to focus
    on the development of innovative products designed to address
    the needs of customers for reliable, non-volatile, low-cost,
     high-density 
    memory.

Strategy
    by Major Market Segment   

The strategy for our   PC
    Client Group   operating segment is to offer products that
    are incorporated into notebook, netbook, and desktop computers
    for consumers and businesses. Our strategy for the notebook
    computing market segment is to offer notebook PC products
    designed to improve performance, battery life, and wireless
    connectivity, as well as to allow for the design of smaller,
    lighter, and thinner form factors. We are also increasing our
    focus on notebook products designed to offer technologies that
    provide increased manageability and security, and we continue to
    invest in the build-out of WiMAX. Our strategy for the netbook
    computing market segment is to offer products that enable
    affordable, Internet-focused devices with small form factors.
    Our strategy for the desktop computing market segment is to
    offer products that provide increased manageability, security,
    and energy-efficient performance while lowering total cost of
    ownership for businesses. For consumers in the desktop computing
    market segment, we also focus on the design of components for
    high-end enthusiast PCs and mainstream PCs with rich audio and
    video capabilities.

The strategy for our   Data
    Center Group   operating segment is to offer products that
    provide leading performance, energy-efficiency, and
    virtualization technology for server, workstation, and storage
    platforms. We are also increasing our focus on products designed
    for
     high-performance 
    and mission-critical computing, cloud computing services, and
    emerging markets. In addition, we offer wired connectivity
    devices that are incorporated into products that make up the
    infrastructure for the Internet.

The strategies for our   other
    Intel architecture operating segments   include:

driving Intel architecture as a
    solution for embedded applications by delivering long life-cycle
    support, software and architectural scalability, and platform
    integration;

continuing to develop and offer
    products that enable handhelds to deliver digital content and
    the Internet to users in new ways; and

offering products and solutions
    for use in consumer electronics devices designed to access and
    share Internet, broadcast, optical media, and personal content
    through a variety of linked digital devices within the home.

28

Table of Contents   

MANAGEMENT S
    DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF
    OPERATIONS (Continued)  

Critical
    Accounting Estimates  

The methods, estimates, and
    judgments that we use in applying our accounting policies have a
    significant impact on the results that we report in our
    consolidated financial statements. Some of our accounting
    policies require us to make difficult and subjective judgments,
    often as a result of the need to make estimates regarding
    matters that are inherently uncertain. Our most critical
    accounting estimates include:

the valuation of non-marketable
    equity investments and the determination of
     other-than-temporary 
    impairments, which impact gains (losses) on equity method
    investments, net, or gains (losses) on other equity investments,
    net when we record impairments;

the assessment of recoverability
    of long-lived assets, which primarily impacts gross margin or
    operating expenses when we record asset impairments or
    accelerate their depreciation;

the recognition and measurement of
    current and deferred income taxes (including the measurement of
    uncertain tax positions), which impact our provision for taxes;
    and

the valuation of inventory, which
    impacts gross margin.

Below, we discuss these policies
    further, as well as the estimates and judgments involved.

Non-Marketable
    Equity Investments   

We regularly invest in
    non-marketable equity instruments of private companies, which
    range from early-stage companies that are often still defining
    their strategic direction to more mature companies with
    established revenue streams and business models. The carrying
    value of our non-marketable equity investment portfolio,
    excluding equity derivatives, totaled $3.4 billion as of
    December 26, 2009 ($4.1 billion as of December 27, 2008). The
    majority of this balance as of December 26, 2009 was
    concentrated in companies in the flash memory market segment.
    Our flash memory market segment investments include our
    investment in IMFT and IM Flash Singapore, LLP (IMFS) of $1.6
    billion ($2.1 billion as of December 27, 2008). For further
    information, see  Note 11: Non-Marketable Equity
    Investments  in Part II, Item 8 of this Form
     10-K. 

Our non-marketable equity
    investments are recorded using adjusted cost basis or the equity
    method of accounting, depending on the facts and circumstances
    of each investment (see  Note 2: Accounting Policies 
    in Part II, Item 8 of this Form
     10-K).  Our
    non-marketable equity investments are classified in other
    long-term assets on the consolidated balance sheets.

Non-marketable equity investments
    are inherently risky, and a number of the companies in which we
    invest could fail. Their success is dependent on product
    development, market acceptance, operational efficiency, and
    other key business factors. Depending on their future prospects,
    the companies may not be able to raise additional funds when the
    funds are needed or they may receive lower valuations, with less
    favorable investment terms than in previous financings, and our
    investments would likely become impaired. Additionally,
    financial markets and credit markets are volatile, which could
    negatively affect the prospects of the companies we invest in,
    their ability to raise additional capital, and the likelihood of
    our being able to realize value in our investments through
    liquidity events such as initial public offerings, mergers, and
    private sales. For further information about our investment
    portfolio risks, see  Risk Factors  in Part I, Item 1A
    of this Form
     10-K. 

We determine the fair value of our
    non-marketable equity investments quarterly for disclosure
    purposes; however, the investments are recorded at fair value
    only when an impairment charge is recognized. We determine the
    fair value of our non-marketable equity investments using the
    market and income approaches. The market approach includes the
    use of financial metrics and ratios of comparable public
    companies, such as projected revenues, earnings, and comparable
    performance multiples. The selection of comparable companies
    requires management judgment and is based on a number of
    factors, including comparable companies  sizes, growth
    rates, industries, development stages, and other relevant
    factors. The income approach includes the use of a discounted
    cash flow model, which may include one or multiple discounted
    cash flow scenarios and requires the following significant
    estimates for the investee: revenue, based on assumed market
    segment size and assumed market segment share; expenses, capital
    spending, and other costs; and discount rates based on the risk
    profile of comparable companies. Estimates of market segment
    size, market segment share, expenses, capital spending, and
    other costs are developed by the investee
     and/or  Intel
    using historical data and available market data. The valuation
    of our non-marketable investments also takes into account
    variables such as conditions reflected in the capital markets,
    recent financing activities by the investees, the
    investees  capital structure, and differences in seniority
    and rights associated with the investees  capital.

29

Table of Contents   

MANAGEMENT S
    DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF
    OPERATIONS (Continued)  

For non-marketable equity
    investments, the measurement of fair value requires significant
    judgment and includes quantitative and qualitative analysis of
    identified events or circumstances that impact the fair value of
    the investment, such as:

the investee s revenue and
    earnings trends relative to pre-defined milestones and overall
    business prospects;

the technological feasibility of
    the investee s products and technologies;

the general market conditions in
    the investee s industry or geographic area, including
    adverse regulatory or economic changes;

factors related to the
    investee s ability to remain in business, such as the
    investee s liquidity, debt ratios, and the rate at which
    the investee is using its cash; and

the investee s receipt of
    additional funding at a lower valuation.

If the fair value of an investment
    is below our carrying value, we determine if the investment is
    other than temporarily impaired based on our quantitative and
    qualitative analysis, which includes assessing the severity and
    duration of the impairment and the likelihood of recovery before
    disposal. If the investment is considered to be other than
    temporarily impaired, we write down the investment to its fair
    value. Impairments of non-marketable equity investments were
    $221 million in 2009. Over the past 12 quarters, including the
    fourth quarter of 2009, impairments of non-marketable equity
    investments ranged from $11 million to $896 million per quarter.
    This range included impairments of $896 million during the
    fourth quarter of 2008, primarily related to a $762 million
    impairment charge on our investment in Clearwire Communications,
    LLC (Clearwire LLC).

IMFT/IMFS  

IMFT and IMFS are variable
    interest entities that are designed to manufacture and sell NAND
    products to Intel and Micron at manufacturing cost. We determine
    the fair value of our investment in IMFT/IMFS using the income
    approach based on a weighted average of multiple discounted cash
    flow scenarios of our NAND Solutions Group business, which
    requires the use of unobservable inputs. Unobservable inputs
    that require us to make our most difficult and subjective
    judgments are the estimates for projected revenue and discount
    rate. Changes in management estimates for these unobservable
    inputs have the most significant effect on the fair value
    determination. We did not have an
     other-than-temporary 
    impairment on our investment in IMFT/IMFS in 2009, 2008, or
    2007. It is reasonably possible that the estimates used in the
    fair value determination could change in the near term, which
    could result in an impairment of our investment.

Long-Lived
    Assets   

We assess the impairment of
    long-lived assets when events or changes in circumstances
    indicate that the carrying value of the assets or the asset
    grouping may not be recoverable. Factors that we consider in
    deciding when to perform an impairment review include
    significant under-performance of a business or product line in
    relation to expectations, significant negative industry or
    economic trends, and significant changes or planned changes in
    our use of the assets. We measure the recoverability of assets
    that will continue to be used in our operations by comparing the
    carrying value of the asset grouping to our estimate of the
    related total future undiscounted net cash flows. If an asset
    grouping s carrying value is not recoverable through the
    related undiscounted cash flows, the asset grouping is
    considered to be impaired. The impairment is measured by
    comparing the difference between the asset grouping s
    carrying value and its fair value. Fair value is the price that
    would be received from selling an asset in an orderly
    transaction between market participants at the measurement date.
     Long-lived 
    assets such as goodwill; intangible assets; and property, plant
    and equipment are considered non-financial assets, and are
    recorded at fair value only when an impairment charge is
    recognized.

Impairments of long-lived assets
    are determined for groups of assets related to the lowest level
    of identifiable independent cash flows. Due to our asset usage
    model and the interchangeable nature of our semiconductor
    manufacturing capacity, we must make subjective judgments in
    determining the independent cash flows that can be related to
    specific asset groupings. In addition, as we make manufacturing
    process conversions and other factory planning decisions, we
    must make subjective judgments regarding the remaining useful
    lives of assets, primarily process-specific semiconductor
    manufacturing tools and building improvements. When we determine
    that the useful lives of assets are shorter than we had
    originally estimated, we accelerate the rate of depreciation
    over the assets  new, shorter useful lives. Over the past
    12 quarters, including the fourth quarter of 2009, impairments
    and accelerated depreciation of long-lived assets ranged from
    $40 million to $300 million per quarter. For further discussion
    on these asset impairment charges, see  Note 19:
    Restructuring and Asset Impairment Charges  in Part II,
    Item 8 of this Form
     10-K. 

30

Table of Contents   

MANAGEMENT S
    DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF
    OPERATIONS (Continued)  

Income
    Taxes   

We must make estimates and
    judgments in determining income tax expense for financial
    statement purposes. These estimates and judgments occur in the
    calculation of tax credits, benefits, and deductions, and in the
    calculation of certain tax assets and liabilities that arise
    from differences in the timing of recognition of revenue and
    expense for tax and financial statement purposes, as well as the
    interest and penalties related to uncertain tax positions.
    Significant changes in these estimates may result in an increase
    or decrease to our tax provision in a subsequent period.

We must assess the likelihood that
    we will be able to recover our deferred tax assets. If recovery
    is not likely, we must increase our provision for taxes by
    recording a valuation allowance against the deferred tax assets
    that we estimate will not ultimately be recoverable. We believe
    that we will ultimately recover a majority of the deferred tax
    assets recorded on our consolidated balance sheets. However,
    should there be a change in our ability to recover our deferred
    tax assets, our tax provision would increase in the period in
    which we determined that the recovery was not likely. Recovery
    of a portion of our deferred tax assets is impacted by
    management s plans with respect to holding or disposing of
    certain investments; therefore, changes in management s
    plans with respect to holding or disposing of investments could
    affect our future provision for taxes.

The calculation of our tax
    liabilities involves dealing with uncertainties in the
    application of complex tax regulations. We recognize liabilities
    for uncertain tax positions based on a two-step process. The
    first step is to evaluate the tax position for recognition by
    determining if the weight of available evidence indicates that
    it is more likely than not that the position will be sustained
    on audit, including resolution of related appeals or litigation
    processes, if any. If we determine that a tax position will more
    likely than not be sustained on audit, the second step requires
    us to estimate and measure the tax benefit as the largest amount
    that is more than 50% likely to be realized upon ultimate
    settlement. It is inherently difficult and subjective to
    estimate such amounts, as we have to determine the probability
    of various possible outcomes. We
     re-evaluate 
    these uncertain tax positions on a quarterly basis. This
    evaluation is based on factors such as changes in facts or
    circumstances, changes in tax law, new audit activity, and
    effectively settled issues. Determining whether an uncertain tax
    position is effectively settled requires judgment. Such a change
    in recognition or measurement would result in the recognition of
    a tax benefit or an additional charge to the tax provision.

Inventory   

The valuation of inventory
    requires us to estimate obsolete or excess inventory as well as
    inventory that is not of saleable quality. The determination of
    obsolete or excess inventory requires us to estimate the future
    demand for our products. The estimate of future demand is
    compared to
     work-in-process 
    and finished goods inventory levels to determine the amount, if
    any, of obsolete or excess inventory. As of December 26, 2009,
    we had total
     work-in-process 
    inventory of $1,469 million and total finished goods inventory
    of $1,029 million. The demand forecast is included in the
    development of our short-term manufacturing plans to enable
    consistency between inventory valuation and build decisions.
    Product-specific facts and circumstances reviewed in the
    inventory valuation process include a review of the customer
    base, the stage of the product life cycle of our products,
    consumer confidence, and customer acceptance of our products, as
    well as an assessment of the selling price in relation to the
    product cost. If our demand forecast for specific products is
    greater than actual demand and we fail to reduce manufacturing
    output accordingly, we could be required to write off inventory,
    which would negatively impact our gross margin.

In order to determine what costs
    can be included in the valuation of inventory, we must determine
    normal capacity at our manufacturing and assembly and test
    facilities, based on historical loadings of wafers compared to
    total available capacity. If the factory loadings are below the
    established normal capacity level, a portion of our
    manufacturing overhead costs would not be included in the cost
    of inventory, and therefore would be recognized as cost of sales
    in that period, which would negatively impact our gross margin.
    We refer to these costs as excess capacity charges. Over the
    past 12 quarters, excess capacity charges ranged from zero to
    $680 million per quarter.

Accounting
    Changes and Recent Accounting Standards  

For a description of accounting
    changes and recent accounting standards, including the expected
    dates of adoption and estimated effects, if any, on our
    consolidated financial statements, see  Note 3: Accounting
    Changes  and  Note 4: Recent Accounting
    Standards  in Part II, Item 8 of this Form
     10-K. 

31

Table of Contents   

MANAGEMENT S
    DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF
    OPERATIONS (Continued)  

Results
    of Operations  

The following table sets forth
    certain consolidated statements of operations data as a
    percentage of net revenue for the periods indicated:

The following graphs set forth
    revenue information of geographic regions for the periods
    indicated:

Geographic
    Breakdown of Revenue  

Our net revenue for 2009 decreased
    7% compared to 2008. Average selling prices for microprocessors
    and chipsets decreased and microprocessor and chipset unit sales
    increased, compared to 2008, primarily due to the ramp of Intel
    Atom processors and chipsets, which generally have lower average
    selling prices than our other microprocessor and chipset
    products. Revenue from the sale of NOR flash memory products and
    communications products declined $740 million, primarily as a
    result of business divestitures. Additionally, an increase in
    revenue from the sale of NAND flash memory products was mostly
    offset by a decrease in revenue from the sale of wireless
    connectivity products.

32

Table of Contents   

MANAGEMENT S
    DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF
    OPERATIONS (Continued)  

Revenue in the Asia-Pacific region
    increased 2% compared to 2008, while revenue in the Europe,
    Japan, and Americas regions decreased by 26%, 15%, and 4%,
    respectively, compared to 2008.

Our overall gross margin dollars
    for 2009 decreased $1.3 billion, or 6%, compared to 2008. Our
    overall gross margin percentage increased slightly to 55.7% in
    2009 from 55.5% in 2008. The slight increase in gross margin
    percentage was primarily attributable to the gross margin
    percentage increases in the NAND Solutions Group and Data Center
    Group operating segments offset by the gross margin percentage
    decrease in the PC Client Group operating segment. We derived a
    substantial majority of our overall gross margin dollars in
    2009, and most of our overall gross margin dollars in 2008, from
    the sales of microprocessors in the PC Client Group and Data
    Center Group operating segments. See  Business
    Outlook  for a discussion of gross margin expectations.

Our net revenue for 2008 decreased
    2% compared to 2007. Higher revenue from the sale of
    microprocessors and chipsets was more than offset by the impacts
    of divestitures and lower revenue from the sale of motherboards.
    Revenue from the sale of NOR flash memory and cellular baseband
    products declined $1.7 billion, primarily as a result of
    divestiture of these businesses. Revenue in the Americas region
    decreased 4% in 2008 compared to 2007. Revenue in the
    Asia-Pacific, Europe, and Japan regions remained approximately
    flat in 2008 compared to 2007.

Our overall gross margin dollars
    for 2008 were $20.8 billion, an increase of $940 million, or 5%,
    compared to 2007. Our overall gross margin percentage increased
    to 55.5% in 2008 from 51.9% in 2007. The increase in gross
    margin percentage was primarily attributable to the gross margin
    percentage increase in the PC Client Group operating segment
    and, to a lesser extent, the gross margin percentage increase in
    the Data Center Group operating segment. In addition, our gross
    margin percentage increased due to the divestiture of our NOR
    flash memory business. We derived most of our overall gross
    margin dollars in 2008 and 2007 from the sale of microprocessors
    in the PC Client Group and Data Center Group operating segments.

PC
    Client Group   

The revenue and operating income
    for the PC Client Group (PCCG) for the three years ended
    December 26, 2009 were as follows:

Net revenue for the PCCG operating
    segment decreased by $1.8 billion, or 6%, in 2009 compared to
    2008. Microprocessors and chipsets within PCCG include those
    designed for the notebook, netbook, and desktop computing market
    segments. The decrease in microprocessor revenue was primarily
    due to lower notebook microprocessor average selling prices, and
    lower desktop microprocessor unit sales and average selling
    prices. These decreases were partially offset by a significant
    increase in netbook microprocessor unit sales due to the ramp of
    Intel Atom processors. The decrease in chipset, motherboard, and
    other revenue was primarily due to lower chipset average selling
    prices and lower unit sales of wireless connectivity products,
    partially offset by higher chipset unit sales.

Operating income decreased by $1.8
    billion, or 19%, in 2009 compared to 2008. The decrease was
    primarily due to lower revenue and approximately $810 million of
    higher factory underutilization charges, partially offset by
    lower chipset and microprocessor unit costs.

For 2008, net revenue for the PCCG
    operating segment increased slightly by $836 million, or 3%,
    compared to 2007. The increase in microprocessor revenue was
    primarily due to significantly higher notebook microprocessor
    unit sales, partially offset by significantly lower notebook
    microprocessor average selling prices. In addition, lower
    desktop microprocessor unit sales were partially offset by the
    ramp of Intel Atom processors. The increase in chipset,
    motherboard, and other revenue was primarily due to higher
    chipset unit sales, partially offset by lower desktop
    motherboard unit sales.

Operating income increased by $884
    million, or 10%, in 2008 compared to 2007. The increase in
    operating income was primarily due to lower microprocessor and
    chipset unit costs, partially offset by lower desktop
    microprocessor and chipset revenue and higher operating
    expenses. In addition, approximately $230 million of lower
     start-up 
    costs were offset by sales in 2007 of desktop microprocessors
    that had previously been written off, and higher write-offs of
    desktop microprocessor inventory in 2008.

33

Table of Contents   

MANAGEMENT S
    DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF
    OPERATIONS (Continued)  

Data
    Center Group   

The revenue and operating income
    for the Data Center Group (DCG) for the three years ended
    December 26, 2009 were as follows:

Net revenue for the DCG operating
    segment decreased slightly by $140 million, or 2%, in 2009
    compared to 2008. The increase in microprocessor revenue was due
    to higher microprocessor average selling prices, partially
    offset by lower microprocessor unit sales. The decrease in
    chipset, motherboard, and other revenue was primarily due to
    lower chipset average selling prices.

Operating income increased by $164
    million, or 8%, in 2009 compared to 2008. The increase in
    operating income was primarily due to higher microprocessor
    revenue and lower operating expenses, partially offset by
    approximately $150 million of higher
     start-up 
    costs as well as lower chipset revenue.

For 2008, net revenue for the DCG
    operating segment increased slightly by $135 million, or 2%,
    compared to 2007. The increase in microprocessor revenue was due
    to higher microprocessor average selling prices. The decrease in
    chipset, motherboard, and other revenue was primarily due to
    lower motherboard unit sales.

Operating income was flat in 2008
    compared to 2007. Higher revenue was mostly offset by higher
    operating expenses.

Other
    Intel Architecture Operating Segments   

The revenue and operating income
    for the other Intel architecture operating segments (Other IA)
    for the three years ended December 26, 2009 were as follows:

Net revenue for the Other IA
    operating segments decreased by $361 million, or 20%, in 2009
    compared to 2008, and operating loss for the Other IA operating
    segments increased by $116 million in 2009 compared to 2008. The
    changes were primarily due to lower revenue from the sale of
    communications products within the Embedded and Communications
    Group (ECG), primarily as a result of business divestitures.

For 2008, net revenue for the
    Other IA operating segments decreased by $145 million, or 8%,
    compared to 2007. The decrease was primarily due to lower
    revenue from the sale of communications products within ECG,
    primarily as a result of business divestitures, partially offset
    by higher ECG microprocessor unit sales. Operating income (loss)
    decreased by $110 million in 2008 compared to 2007. The decrease
    was primarily due to higher operating expenses within the
    Ultra-Mobility Group and, to a lesser extent, within the Digital
    Home Group.

34

Table of Contents   

MANAGEMENT S
    DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF
    OPERATIONS (Continued)  

Operating
    Expenses   

Operating expenses for the three
    years ended December 26, 2009 were as follows:

Research and
    Development.     R D
    spending was flat in 2009 compared to 2008, and was flat in 2008
    compared to 2007. In 2009 compared to 2008, we had lower process
    development costs as we transitioned from R D to
    manufacturing using our 32nm process technology. This decrease
    was offset by higher profit-dependent compensation expenses. In
    2008 compared to 2007, we had lower product development expenses
    resulting from our divested businesses and slightly lower
    profit-dependent compensation. These decreases were offset by
    higher process development costs as we transitioned from
    manufacturing
     start-up 
    costs related to our 45nm process technology to R D of our
    32nm process technology.

Marketing, General and
    Administrative.     Marketing,
    general and administrative expenses increased $2.5 billion, or
    45%, in 2009 compared to 2008, and were flat in 2008 compared to
    2007. The increase in 2009 compared to 2008 was due to the
    charge of $1.447 billion incurred as a result of the fine
    imposed by the European Commission (EC) and the $1.25 billion
    payment to AMD as part of a settlement agreement (see  Note
    28: Contingencies  in Part II, Item 8 of this Form
     10-K).  To a
    lesser extent, we had higher profit-dependent compensation
    expenses that were partially offset by lower advertising
    expenses, including cooperative advertising expenses. In 2008
    compared to 2007, we had higher legal expenses that were offset
    by lower profit-dependent compensation and lower advertising
    expenses.

R D, combined with marketing,
    general and administrative expenses, were 39% of net revenue in
    2009, 30% of net revenue in 2008, and 29% of net revenue in 2007.

Restructuring and Asset
    Impairment
    Charges.     The
    following table summarizes restructuring and asset impairment
    charges by plan for the three years ended December 26, 2009:

2009
    Restructuring Program  

In the first quarter of 2009,
    management approved plans to restructure some of our
    manufacturing and assembly and test operations. These plans
    included closing two assembly and test facilities in Malaysia,
    one facility in the Philippines, and one facility in China;
    stopping production at a 200mm wafer fabrication facility in
    Oregon; and ending production at our 200mm wafer fabrication
    facility in California. We do not expect significant future
    charges related to the 2009 plan. The following table summarizes
    charges for the 2009 restructuring plan during 2009:

(In Millions) 

2009 

Employee severance and benefit arrangements

$

208

Asset impairments

7

Total restructuring and asset impairment charges 

$ 

215 

35

Table of Contents   

MANAGEMENT S
    DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF
    OPERATIONS (Continued)  

The following table summarizes the
    restructuring and asset impairment activity for the 2009
    restructuring plan during 2009:

The net charges above include $208
    million that relate to employee severance and benefit
    arrangements for 6,500 employees, of which 5,400 employees had
    left the company as of December 26, 2009. Most of these employee
    actions occurred within manufacturing.

We estimate that these employee
    severance and benefit charges will result in gross annual
    savings of approximately $290 million. The substantial majority
    of the savings will be realized within cost of sales.

2008 NAND
    Plan  

In the fourth quarter of 2008,
    management approved a plan with Micron to discontinue the supply
    of NAND flash memory from the 200mm facility within the IMFT
    manufacturing network. The agreement resulted in a $215 million
    restructuring charge, primarily related to the IMFT 200mm supply
    agreement. The restructuring charge resulted in a reduction of
    our investment in IMFT/IMFS of $184 million, a cash payment to
    Micron of $24 million, and other cash payments of $7 million.
    The 2008 NAND plan was completed at the end of 2008.

2006
    Efficiency Program  

In the third quarter of 2006,
    management approved several actions as part of a restructuring
    plan designed to improve operational efficiency and financial
    results. The following table summarizes charges for the 2006
    efficiency program for the three years ended December 26, 2009:

During 2006, as part of our
    assessment of our worldwide manufacturing capacity operations,
    we placed for sale our fabrication facility in Colorado Springs,
    Colorado. As a result of placing the facility for sale, in 2006
    we recorded a $214 million impairment charge to write down to
    fair value the land, building, and equipment. We incurred $54
    million in additional asset impairment charges as a result of
    market conditions related to the Colorado Springs facility
    during 2007 and additional charges in 2008. We sold the Colorado
    Springs facility in 2009.

In addition, during 2007 we
    recorded land and building write-downs related to certain
    facilities in Santa Clara, California. We also incurred $85
    million in asset impairment charges related to assets that we
    sold in conjunction with the divestiture of our NOR flash memory
    business in 2007 and an additional $275 million in 2008. We
    determined the impairment charges based on the fair value, less
    selling costs, that we expected to receive upon completion of
    the divestiture in 2007, and determined the impairment charges
    using the revised fair value of the equity and note receivable
    that we received upon completion of the divestiture, less
    selling costs, in 2008. For further information on this
    divestiture, see  Note 16: Divestitures  in Part II,
    Item 8 of this Form
     10-K. 

36

Table of Contents   

MANAGEMENT S
    DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF
    OPERATIONS (Continued)  

The following table summarizes the
    restructuring and asset impairment activity for the 2006
    efficiency program during 2008 and 2009:

We recorded the additional
    accruals, net of adjustments, as restructuring and asset
    impairment charges. The 2006 efficiency plan is complete.

From the third quarter of 2006
    through 2009, we incurred a total of $1.6 billion in
    restructuring and asset impairment charges related to this
    program. These charges included a total of $686 million related
    to employee severance and benefit arrangements for 11,300
    employees. A substantial majority of these employee actions
    affected employees within manufacturing, information technology,
    and marketing. The restructuring and asset impairment charges
    also included $896 million in asset impairment charges.

We estimate that the total
    employee severance and benefit charges incurred as part of the
    2006 efficiency program result in gross annual savings of
    approximately $1.1 billion. We are realizing these savings
    within marketing, general and administrative; cost of sales; and
    R D.

Amortization of
    acquisition-related
    intangibles.     The
    increase of $29 million was due to amortization of intangibles
    primarily related to the acquisition of Wind River Systems
    completed in the third quarter of 2009. See  Note 15:
    Acquisitions  in Part II, Item 8 of this Form
     10-K. 

Share-Based
    Compensation   

Share-based compensation totaled
    $889 million in 2009, $851 million in 2008, and $952 million in
    2007. Share-based compensation was included in cost of sales and
    operating expenses.

As of December 26, 2009,
    unrecognized share-based compensation costs and the weighted
    average periods over which the costs are expected to be
    recognized were as follows:

Unrecognized 

Share-Based 

Weighted 

Compensation 

Average 

(Dollars in Millions) 

Costs 

Period 

Stock options

$

282

1.3 years

Restricted stock units

$

1,196

1.4 years

Stock purchase plan

$

9

1 month

37

Table of Contents   

MANAGEMENT S
    DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF
    OPERATIONS (Continued)  

Gains
    (Losses) on Equity Method Investments, Net   

Gains (losses) on equity method
    investments, net were as follows:

Impairment charges in 2008
    included a $762 million impairment charge recognized on our
    investment in Clearwire LLC and a $250 million impairment charge
    recognized on our investment in Numonyx. We recognized the
    impairment charge on our investment in Clearwire LLC to write
    down our investment to its fair value, primarily due to the fair
    value being significantly lower than the cost basis of our
    investment in the fourth quarter of 2008. The impairment charge
    on our investment in Numonyx was due to a general decline in
    2008 in the NOR flash memory market segment. Our equity method
    losses were primarily related to Numonyx ($31 million in 2009
    and $87 million in 2008), Clearwire LLC ($27 million in 2009),
    and Clearwire Corporation ($184 million in 2008 and $104 million
    in 2007). See  Note 11:
     Non-Marketable 
    Equity Investments  in Part II, Item 8 of this Form
     10-K.  During
    2007, we recognized $110 million of income due to the
    reorganization of one of our investments, included within
     Other, net  in the table above.

Gains
    (Losses) on Other Equity Investments, Net   

Gains (losses) on other equity
    investments, net were as follows:

Impairment charges in 2008
    included a $176 million impairment charge recognized on our
    investment in Clearwire Corporation and $97 million of
    impairment charges on our investment in Micron. The impairment
    charge on our investment in Clearwire Corporation was due to the
    fair value being significantly lower than the cost basis of our
    investment at the end of the fourth quarter of 2008. The
    impairment charges on our investment in Micron reflected the
    difference between our cost basis and the fair value of our
    investment in Micron at the end of the second and third quarters
    of 2008. In addition, we recognized higher gains on equity
    derivatives in 2009 compared to 2008.

Interest
    and Other, Net   

The components of interest and
    other, net were as follows:

We recognized lower interest
    income in 2009 compared to 2008 as a result of lower interest
    rates. The average interest rate earned during 2009 decreased by
    2.4 percentage points compared to 2008. In addition, lower gains
    on divestitures (zero in 2009 and $59 million in 2008) were more
    than offset by $70 million of fair value gains in 2009 on our
    trading assets, compared to $130 million of fair value losses in
    2008.

38

Table of Contents   

MANAGEMENT S
    DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF
    OPERATIONS (Continued)  

Interest and other, net decreased
    in 2008 compared to 2007 due to lower interest income and fair
    value losses that we experienced in 2008 on our trading assets.
    Interest income was lower in 2008 compared to 2007 as a result
    of lower interest rates, partially offset by higher average
    investment balances. The average interest rate earned during
    2008 decreased by 1.9 percentage points compared to 2007.

Provision
    for Taxes   

Our provision for taxes and
    effective tax rate were as follows:

We generated a higher percentage
    of our profits from lower tax jurisdictions in 2009 compared to
    2008. In addition, the 2009 tax rate was positively impacted by
    the reversal of previously accrued taxes of $366 million on
    settlements, effective settlements, and related remeasurements
    of various uncertain tax positions compared to a reversal of
    $103 million for such matters in 2008. These impacts were
    partially offset by the recognition of the EC fine of $1.447
    billion with no associated tax benefit. In addition, our 2008
    effective tax rate was negatively impacted by the recognition of
    a valuation allowance on our deferred tax assets due to the
    uncertainty of realizing tax benefits related to impairments of
    our equity investments.

Our effective income tax rate
    increased in 2008 compared to 2007, primarily due to the
    recognition of a valuation allowance on our deferred tax assets
    due to the uncertainty of realizing tax benefits related to
    impairments of our equity investments. In addition, the rate
    increased in 2008 compared to 2007, due to the reversal of
    previously accrued taxes of $481 million (including $50 million
    of accrued interest) related to settlements with the U.S.
    Internal Revenue Service (IRS) in the first and second quarters
    of 2007.

Business
    Outlook  

Our future results of operations
    and the topics of other forward-looking statements contained in
    this Form
     10-K, 
    including this MD A, involve a number of risks and
    uncertainties in particular:

changes in business and economic
    conditions;

revenue and pricing;

gross margin and costs;

pending legal proceedings;

our effective tax rate (including
    changes in unrecognized tax positions);

marketing, general and
    administrative expenses;

our goals and strategies;

new product introductions;

plans to cultivate new businesses;

R D expenses;

divestitures or investments;

net gains (losses) from equity
    investments;

interest and other, net;

capital spending;

depreciation; and

impairment of investments.

In addition to the various
    important factors discussed above, a number of other important
    factors could cause actual results to differ materially from our
    expectations. See the risks described in  Risk
    Factors  in Part I, Item 1A of this Form
     10-K. 

Our expectations for 2010 are as
    follows:

Gross Margin
    Percentage.     61%,
    plus or minus three points. The 61% midpoint is higher than our
    2009 gross margin of 55.7%, primarily due to lower manufacturing
    period costs, mostly factory underutilization charges. In
    addition, we expect lower unit costs and higher unit sales,
    partially offset by lower average selling prices.

Total
    Spending.     We
    expect spending on R D, plus marketing, general and
    administrative expenses, in 2010 to be approximately $11.8
    billion, plus or minus $100 million, compared to $13.6 billion
    in 2009. Total spending in 2009 included charges of $1.447
    billion incurred as a result of the fine imposed by the EC and
    $1.25 billion as a result of our legal settlement with AMD.

Research and Development
    Spending.     Approximately
    $6.2 billion compared to $5.7 billion in 2009.

Capital
    Spending.     Approximately
    $4.8 billion, plus or minus $100 million, compared to $4.5
    billion in 2009.

Depreciation.     Approximately
    $4.4 billion, plus or minus $100 million, compared to $4.7
    billion in 2009.

Tax
    Rate.     Approximately
    30%, compared to 23% in 2009. The estimated effective tax rate
    is based on tax law in effect as of December 26, 2009 and
    expected income.

39

Table of Contents   

MANAGEMENT S
    DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF
    OPERATIONS (Continued)  

Status of
    Business Outlook  

We expect that our corporate
    representatives will, from time to time, meet privately with
    investors, investment analysts, the media, and others, and may
    reiterate the forward-looking statements contained in the
     Business Outlook  section and elsewhere in this Form
     10-K, 
    including any such statements that are incorporated by reference
    in this Form
     10-K.  At the
    same time, we will keep this Form
     10-K  and our
    most current business outlook publicly available on our Investor
    Relations web site at  www.intc.com . The public can
    continue to rely on the business outlook published on the web
    site as representing our current expectations on matters
    covered, unless we publish a notice stating otherwise. The
    statements in the  Business Outlook  section and other
    forward-looking statements in this Form
     10-K  are
    subject to revision during the course of the year in our
    quarterly earnings releases and SEC filings and at other times.

From the close of business on
    February 26, 2010 until our quarterly earnings release is
    published, presently scheduled for April 13, 2010, we will
    observe a  quiet period.  During the quiet period, the
     Business Outlook  section and other forward-looking
    statements first published in our Form
     8-K  filed on
    January 14, 2010, as reiterated or updated as applicable in this
    Form  10-K, 
    should be considered historical, speaking as of prior to the
    quiet period only and not subject to update. During the quiet
    period, our representatives will not comment on our business
    outlook or our financial results or expectations. The exact
    timing and duration of the routine quiet period, and any others
    that we utilize from time to time, may vary at our discretion.

40

Table of Contents   

MANAGEMENT S
    DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF
    OPERATIONS (Continued)  

Liquidity
    and Capital Resources  

Sources
    and Uses of Cash 
       (In
    Millions)

In summary, our cash flows were as
    follows:

41

Table of Contents   

MANAGEMENT S
    DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF
    OPERATIONS (Continued)  

Operating
    Activities   

Cash provided by operating
    activities is net income adjusted for certain non-cash items and
    changes in certain assets and liabilities. For 2009 compared to
    2008, the $244 million increase in cash provided by operating
    activities was primarily due to changes in assets and
    liabilities, partially offset by lower net income. Income taxes
    paid, net of refunds in 2009 compared to 2008 were
    $3.1 billion lower on lower income before taxes and timing
    of payments.

Changes in assets and liabilities
    for 2009 compared to 2008 included the following:

Inventories
       decreased due to lower
    chipset and raw materials inventory.

Accounts payable
       decreased due to timing
    of payments, despite higher production spending.

Accounts receivable
       increased due to higher
    revenue and a higher proportion of sales at the end of the
    fourth quarter of 2009.

Accrued compensation and
    benefits    increased due
    to higher accrued profit-dependent compensation.

For 2009 and 2008, our two largest
    customers accounted for 38% of our net revenue, with one of
    these customers accounting for 21% of our net revenue in 2009
    (20% in 2008), and another customer accounting for 17% of our
    net revenue in 2009 (18% in 2008). These two largest customers
    accounted for 41% of our accounts receivable as of December 26,
    2009 and December 27, 2008.

For 2008 compared to 2007, the
    $1.7 billion decrease in cash provided by operating activities
    was primarily due to the $1.7 billion decrease in net income,
    while total adjustments to reconcile net income to cash provided
    by operating activities, including net changes in assets and
    liabilities, were approximately flat. Effective 2008, cash flows
    related to marketable debt instruments classified as trading
    assets are included in investing activities.

Investing
    Activities   

Investing cash flows consist
    primarily of capital expenditures, net investment purchases,
    maturities, disposals, and cash used for acquisitions.

The increase in cash used for
    investing activities in 2009 compared to 2008 was primarily due
    to an increase in net purchases of
     available-for-sale 
    investments and trading assets, and higher cash paid for
    acquisitions. These increases were partially offset by a
    decrease in investments in non-marketable equity investments.
    Our investments in non-marketable equity investments in 2008
    included $1.0 billion for an ownership interest in Clearwire LLC.

Our capital expenditures were $4.5
    billion in 2009 ($5.2 billion in 2008 and $5.0 billion in 2007).
    Capital expenditures for 2010 are currently expected to be
    higher than our 2009 expenditures and are expected to be funded
    by cash flows from operating activities.

The decrease in cash used in
    investing activities in 2008 compared to 2007 was primarily due
    to a decrease in purchases of
     available-for-sale 
    debt investments. In addition, the related cash flows for
    marketable debt instruments classified as trading assets were
    included in investing activities for 2008, and previously they
    had been included in operating activities.

Financing
    Activities   

Financing cash flows consist
    primarily of repurchases and retirement of common stock, payment
    of dividends to stockholders, issuance of long-term debt, and
    proceeds from the sale of shares through employee equity
    incentive plans.

42

Table of Contents   

MANAGEMENT S
    DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF
    OPERATIONS (Continued)  

The decrease in cash used in
    financing activities in 2009 compared to 2008 was primarily due
    to a decrease in repurchases and retirement of common stock and
    the issuance of long-term debt, partially offset by lower
    proceeds from sales of shares through employee equity incentive
    plans. We used the majority of the proceeds from the 2009
    issuance of long-term debt to repurchase and retire common
    stock. During 2009, we repurchased $1.8 billion of common stock
    compared to $7.2 billion in 2008. As of December 26, 2009, $5.7
    billion remained available for repurchase under the existing
    repurchase authorization of $25 billion. We base our level of
    common stock repurchases on internal cash management decisions,
    and this level may fluctuate. Proceeds from the sale of shares
    through employee equity incentive plans totaled $400 million in
    2009 compared to $1.1 billion in 2008 as a result of a lower
    volume of employee exercises of stock options. Our total
    dividend payments in 2009 remained flat from 2008 at $3.1
    billion. We have paid a cash dividend in each of the past 69
    quarters. In January 2010, our Board of Directors declared a
    cash dividend of $0.1575 per common share for the first quarter
    of 2010. The dividend is payable on March 1, 2010 to
    stockholders of record on February 7, 2010.

The higher cash used in financing
    activities in 2008 compared to 2007 was primarily due to an
    increase in repurchases and retirement of common stock, and
    lower proceeds from the sale of shares pursuant to employee
    equity incentive plans.

Liquidity   

Cash generated by operations is
    used as our primary source of liquidity. As of December 26,
    2009, cash and cash equivalents, debt instruments included in
    trading assets, and short-term investments totaled $13.9
    billion. In addition to the $13.9 billion, we have $4.5 billion
    in loans receivable and other long-term investments that we
    include when assessing our investment portfolio.

The credit quality of our
    investment portfolio remains high, with credit-related
     other-than-temporary 
    impairment losses on our
     available-for-sale 
    debt instruments limited to less than $55 million cumulatively
    since the beginning of 2008. In addition, we continue to be able
    to invest in high-credit-quality investments. Substantially all
    of our investments in debt instruments are with A/A2 or better
    rated issuers, and a substantial majority of the issuers are
    rated AA-/Aa3 or better.

As of December 26, 2009,
    cumulative unrealized gains, net of corresponding hedging
    activities, related to debt instruments classified as trading
    assets, and cumulative unrealized gains related to debt
    instruments classified as available-for-sale, were
    insignificant. As of December 27, 2008, our cumulative
    unrealized losses, net of corresponding hedging activities,
    related to debt instruments classified as trading assets were
    $145 million. As of December 27, 2008, our cumulative unrealized
    losses related to debt instruments classified as
     available-for-sale 
    were $215 million.

Our commercial paper program
    provides another potential source of liquidity. We have an
    ongoing authorization from our Board of Directors to borrow up
    to $3.0 billion, including through the issuance of commercial
    paper. Maximum borrowings under our commercial paper program
    during 2009 were $610 million, although no commercial paper
    remained outstanding as of December 26, 2009. Our commercial
    paper was rated
     A-1+  by
    Standard   Poor s and
     P-1  by
    Moody s as of December 26, 2009. We also have an automatic
    shelf registration statement on file with the SEC pursuant to
    which we may offer an unspecified amount of debt, equity, and
    other securities.

We believe that we have the
    financial resources needed to meet business requirements for the
    next 12 months, including capital expenditures for worldwide
    manufacturing and assembly and test, working capital
    requirements, and potential dividends, common stock repurchases,
    and acquisitions or strategic investments.

Fair
    Value of Financial Instruments  

Fair value is the price that would
    be received from selling an asset or paid to transfer a
    liability in an orderly transaction between market participants
    at the measurement date. When determining fair value, we
    consider the principal or most advantageous market in which we
    would transact, and we consider assumptions that market
    participants would use when pricing the asset or liability. See
     Note 5: Fair Value  in Part II, Item 8 of this Form
     10-K. 

Credit risk is factored into the
    valuation of financial instruments that we measure and record at
    fair value on a recurring basis. When fair value is determined
    using observable market prices, the credit risk is incorporated
    into the market price of the financial instrument. When fair
    value is determined using pricing models, such as a discounted
    cash flow model, the issuer s credit risk
     and/or 
    Intel s credit risk is factored into the calculation of the
    fair value, as appropriate.

43

Table of Contents   

MANAGEMENT S
    DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF
    OPERATIONS (Continued)  

Marketable
    Debt Instruments   

As of December 26, 2009, our
    assets measured and recorded at fair value on a recurring basis
    included $17.5 billion of marketable debt instruments. Of these
    instruments, $657 million was classified as Level 1, $15.8
    billion as Level 2, and $1.1 billion as Level 3.

When available, we use observable
    market prices for identical securities to value our marketable
    debt instruments. If observable market prices are not available,
    we use non-binding market consensus prices that we seek to
    corroborate with observable market data, if available, or
    unobservable market data. When prices from multiple sources are
    available for a given instrument, we use observable market
    quotes to price our instruments, in lieu of prices from other
    sources.

Our balance of marketable debt
    instruments that are measured and recorded at fair value on a
    recurring basis and classified as Level 1 was classified as such
    due to the usage of observable market prices for identical
    securities that are traded in active markets. Marketable debt
    instruments in this category generally include certain of our
    corporate bonds, government bonds, and money market fund
    deposits. Management judgment was required to determine the
    levels at which sufficient volume and frequency of transactions
    are met for a market to be considered active. Our assessment of
    an active market for our marketable debt instruments generally
    takes into consideration activity during each week of the
    one-month period prior to the valuation date of each individual
    instrument, including the number of days each individual
    instrument trades and the average weekly trading volume in
    relation to the total outstanding amount of the issued
    instrument.

Approximately 10% of our balance
    of marketable debt instruments that are measured and recorded at
    fair value on a recurring basis and classified as Level 2 was
    classified as such due to the usage of observable market prices
    for identical securities that are traded in less active markets.
    When observable market prices for identical securities are not
    available, we price our marketable debt instruments using
     non-binding 
    market consensus prices that are corroborated with observable
    market data; quoted market prices for similar instruments; or
    pricing models, such as a discounted cash flow model, with all
    significant inputs derived from or corroborated with observable
    market data.
     Non-binding 
    market consensus prices are based on the proprietary valuation
    models of pricing providers or brokers. These valuation models
    incorporate a number of inputs, including non-binding and
    binding broker quotes; observable market prices for identical
     and/or 
    similar securities; and the internal assumptions of pricing
    providers or brokers that use observable market inputs and, to a
    lesser degree, unobservable market inputs. We corroborate the
    non-binding market consensus prices with observable market data
    using statistical models when observable market data exists. The
    discounted cash flow model uses observable market inputs, such
    as LIBOR-based yield curves, currency spot and forward rates,
    and credit ratings. Approximately 40% of our balance of
    marketable debt instruments that are measured and recorded at
    fair value on a recurring basis and classified as Level 2 was
    classified as such due to the usage of non-binding market
    consensus prices that are corroborated with observable market
    data, and approximately 50% due to the usage of a discounted
    cash flow model. Marketable debt instruments classified as Level
    2 generally include commercial paper, bank time deposits,
    municipal bonds, certain of our money market fund deposits, and
    a majority of corporate bonds and government bonds.

Our marketable debt instruments
    that are measured and recorded at fair value on a recurring
    basis and classified as Level 3 were classified as such due to
    the lack of observable market data to corroborate either the
    non-binding market consensus prices or the non-binding broker
    quotes. When observable market data is not available, we
    corroborate the non-binding market consensus prices and
    non-binding broker quotes using unobservable data, if available.
    Marketable debt instruments in this category generally include
    asset-backed securities and certain of our corporate bonds. All
    of our investments in asset-backed securities were classified as
    Level 3, and substantially all of them were valued using
    non-binding market consensus prices that we were not able to
    corroborate with observable market data due to the lack of
    transparency in the market for asset-backed securities.

Equity
    Securities   

As of December 26, 2009, our
    portfolio of assets measured and recorded at fair value on a
    recurring basis included $773 million of marketable equity
    securities. Of these securities, $676 million was classified as
    Level 1 because the valuations were based on quoted prices for
    identical securities in active markets. Our assessment of an
    active market for our marketable equity securities generally
    takes into consideration activity during each week of the
    one-month period prior to the valuation date for each individual
    security, including the number of days each individual equity
    security trades and the average weekly trading volume in
    relation to the total outstanding shares of that security. The
    remaining marketable equity securities of $97 million were
    classified as Level 2 because their valuations were either based
    on quoted prices for identical securities in less active markets
    or adjusted for security-specific restrictions.

44

Table of Contents   

MANAGEMENT S
    DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF
    OPERATIONS (Continued)  

Contractual
    Obligations  

The following table summarizes our
    significant contractual obligations as of December 26, 2009:

1   

Capital purchase obligations represent commitments for the
    construction or purchase of property, plant and equipment. They
    were not recorded as liabilities on our consolidated balance
    sheets as of December 26, 2009, as we had not yet received the
    related goods or taken title to the property. Capital purchase
    obligations decreased from $2.9 billion as of December 27, 2008
    to $1.8 billion as of December 26, 2009, primarily due to the
    timing of the ramp of our latest silicon process technology.  

2   

Other purchase obligations and commitments include payments
    due under various types of licenses and agreements to purchase
    raw materials or other goods, as well as payments due under
    non-contingent funding obligations. Funding obligations include,
    for example, agreements to fund various projects with other
    companies.  

3   

Amounts represent principal and interest cash payments over
    the life of the debt obligations, including anticipated interest
    payments that are not recorded on our consolidated balance
    sheets. Any future settlement of convertible debt would impact
    our cash payments.  

4   

We are unable to reliably estimate the timing of future
    payments related to uncertain tax positions; therefore, $193
    million of long-term income taxes payable has been excluded from
    the table above. However, long-term income taxes payable,
    included on our consolidated balance sheets, included these
    uncertain tax positions, reduced by the associated federal
    deduction for state taxes and U.S. tax credits arising from
     non-U.S. 
    income.  

5   

Amounts represent future cash payments to satisfy other
    long-term liabilities recorded on our consolidated balance
    sheets, including the short-term portion of these long-term
    liabilities. Expected contributions to our U.S. and
     non-U.S. 
    pension plans and other postretirement benefit plans of $60
    million to be made during 2010 are also included; however,
    funding projections beyond 2010 are not practical to
    estimate.  

6   

Total generally excludes contractual obligations already
    recorded on our consolidated balance sheets as current
    liabilities.  

Contractual obligations for
    purchases of goods or services generally include agreements that
    are enforceable and legally binding on Intel and that specify
    all significant terms, including fixed or minimum quantities to
    be purchased; fixed, minimum, or variable price provisions; and
    the approximate timing of the transaction. The table above also
    includes agreements to purchase raw materials that have
    cancellation provisions requiring little or no payment. The
    amounts under such contracts are included in the table above
    because management believes that cancellation of these contracts
    is unlikely and expects to make future cash payments according
    to the contract terms or in similar amounts for similar
    materials. For other obligations with cancellation provisions,
    the amounts included in the table above were limited to the
    non-cancelable portion of the agreement terms
     and/or  the
    minimum cancellation fee.

We have entered into certain
    agreements for the purchase of raw materials or other goods that
    specify minimum prices and quantities based on a percentage of
    the total available market or based on a percentage of our
    future purchasing requirements. Due to the uncertainty of the
    future market and our future purchasing requirements,
    obligations under these agreements are not included in the table
    above. We estimate our obligation under these agreements as of
    December 26, 2009 to be approximately as follows: less than one
    year $364 million; one to three years $3 million; more
    than three years zero. Our purchase orders for other
    products are based on our current manufacturing needs and are
    fulfilled by our vendors within short time horizons. In
    addition, some of our purchase orders represent authorizations
    to purchase rather than binding agreements.

45

Table of Contents   

MANAGEMENT S
    DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF
    OPERATIONS (Continued)  

Contractual obligations that are
    contingent upon the achievement of certain milestones are not
    included in the table above. These obligations include
    contingent funding/payment obligations and milestone-based
    equity investment funding. These arrangements are not considered
    contractual obligations until the milestone is met by the third
    party. Assuming that all future milestones are met, additional
    required payments related to these obligations were not
    significant as of December 26, 2009.

For the majority of restricted
    stock units granted, the number of shares issued on the date the
    restricted stock units vest is net of the minimum statutory
    withholding requirements that we pay in cash to the appropriate
    taxing authorities on behalf of our employees. The obligation to
    pay the relative taxing authority is not included in the table
    above, as the amount is contingent upon continued employment. In
    addition, the amount of the obligation is unknown, as it is
    based in part on the market price of our common stock when the
    awards vest.

We have a contractual obligation
    to purchase the output of IMFT in proportion to our investments,
    49% as of December 26, 2009. We also have several agreements
    with Micron related to intellectual property rights, and
    R D funding related to NAND flash manufacturing and IMFT.
    The obligation to purchase our proportion of IMFT s
    inventory was $100 million as of December 26, 2009. See
     Note 11: Non-Marketable Equity Investments  in Part
    II, Item 8 of this Form
     10-K. 

The expected timing of payments of
    the obligations above are estimates based on current
    information. Timing of payments and actual amounts paid may be
    different, depending on the time of receipt of goods or
    services, or changes to
     agreed-upon 
    amounts for some obligations.

Off-Balance-Sheet
    Arrangements  

As of December 26, 2009, with the
    exception of a guarantee for the repayment of $275 million in
    principal of the payment obligations of Numonyx under its senior
    credit facility, as well as accrued unpaid interest, expenses of
    the lenders, and penalties, we did not have any significant
    off-balance-sheet arrangements, as defined in Item 303(a)(4)(ii)
    of SEC Regulation
     S-K.  In
    February 2010, we signed a definitive agreement with Micron and
    Numonyx under which Micron agreed to acquire Numonyx in an
    all-stock transaction. The senior credit facility that is
    supported by Intel s guarantee is expected to be repaid in
    full following the closing of this transaction. See  Note
    11: Non-Marketable Equity Investments  in Part II, Item 8
    of this Form
     10-K. 

46

Table of Contents   

ITEM
    7A.        

QUANTITATIVE
    AND QUALITATIVE DISCLOSURES ABOUT MARKET RISK  

We use derivative financial
    instruments primarily to manage currency exchange rate and
    interest rate risk, and to a lesser extent, equity market and
    commodity price risk. All of the potential changes noted below
    are based on sensitivity analyses performed on our financial
    positions as of December 26, 2009 and December 27, 2008. Actual
    results may differ materially.

Currency
    Exchange Rates  

We generally hedge currency risks
    of
     non-U.S.-dollar-denominated 
    investments in debt instruments and loans receivable with
    offsetting currency forward contracts, currency options, or
    currency interest rate swaps. Gains and losses on these
     non-U.S.-currency 
    investments would generally be offset by corresponding losses
    and gains on the related hedging instruments, resulting in a
    negligible net exposure to loss.

Substantially all of our revenue
    and a majority of our expense and capital purchasing activities
    are transacted in U.S. dollars. However, certain operating
    expenditures and capital purchases are incurred in or exposed to
    other currencies, primarily the Japanese yen, the euro, and the
    Israeli shekel. We have established balance sheet and forecasted
    transaction currency risk management programs to protect against
    fluctuations in fair value and the volatility of future cash
    flows caused by changes in exchange rates. We generally utilize
    currency forward contracts and, to a lesser extent, currency
    options in these hedging programs. Our hedging programs reduce,
    but do not always entirely eliminate, the impact of currency
    exchange rate movements (see  Risk Factors  in Part I,
    Item 1A of this Form
     10-K).  We
    considered the historical trends in currency exchange rates and
    determined that it was reasonably possible that a weighted
    average adverse change of 20% in currency exchange rates could
    be experienced in the near term. Such an adverse change, after
    taking into account hedges and offsetting positions, would have
    resulted in an adverse impact on income before taxes of less
    than $40 million as of December 26, 2009 (less than $55 million
    as of December 27, 2008).

Interest
    Rates  

We are exposed to interest rate
    risk related to our investment portfolio and debt issuances. The
    primary objective of our investments in debt instruments is to
    preserve principal while maximizing yields. To achieve this
    objective, the returns on our investments in debt instruments
    are generally based on the
     U.S.-dollar 
    three-month LIBOR. A hypothetical decrease in interest rates of
    1.0% would have resulted in an increase in the fair value of our
    debt issuances of approximately $205 million as of December 26,
    2009 (an increase of approximately $150 million as of December
    27, 2008). A hypothetical decrease in interest rates of up to
    1.0% would have resulted in an increase in the fair value of our
    investment portfolio of approximately $10 million as of December
    26, 2009 (an increase of approximately $15 million as of
    December 27, 2008). These hypothetical decreases in interest
    rates, after taking into account hedges and offsetting
    positions, would have resulted in a decrease in the fair value
    of our net investment position of approximately $195 million as
    of December 26, 2009 and $135 million as of December 27, 2008.
    The fluctuations in fair value of our debt issuances and
    investment portfolio reflect only the direct impact of the
    change in interest rates. Other economic variables, such as
    equity market fluctuations and changes in relative credit risk,
    could result in a significantly higher decline in our net
    investment portfolio. For further information on how credit risk
    is factored into the valuation of our investment portfolio and
    debt issuances, see  Fair Value of Financial
    Instruments  in Part II, Item 7 of this Form
     10-K. 

Equity
    Prices  

Our marketable equity investments
    include marketable equity securities and equity derivative
    instruments such as warrants and options. To the extent that our
    marketable equity securities have strategic value, we typically
    do not attempt to reduce or eliminate our equity market exposure
    through hedging activities; however, for our investments in
    strategic equity derivative instruments, including warrants, we
    may enter into transactions to reduce or eliminate the equity
    market risks. For securities that we no longer consider
    strategic, we evaluate legal, market, and economic factors in
    our decision on the timing of disposal and whether it is
    possible and appropriate to hedge the equity market risk.

We hold derivative instruments
    that seek to offset changes in liabilities related to the equity
    market risks of certain deferred compensation arrangements. The
    gains and losses from changes in fair value of these derivatives
    are designed to offset the gains and losses on the related
    liabilities, resulting in an insignificant net exposure to loss.

47

Table of Contents   

As of December 26, 2009, the fair
    value of our marketable equity securities and our equity
    derivative instruments, including hedging positions, was $805
    million ($362 million as of December 27, 2008). Our marketable
    equity securities include our investments in Clearwire
    Corporation and Micron, carried at a fair market value of $250
    million and $148 million, respectively, as of December 26, 2009.
    To determine reasonably possible decreases in the market value
    of our marketable equity investments, we analyzed the expected
    market price sensitivity of our marketable equity investment
    portfolio. Assuming a loss of 50% in market prices, and after
    reflecting the impact of hedges and offsetting positions, the
    aggregate value of our marketable equity investments could
    decrease by approximately $405 million, based on the value as of
    December 26, 2009 (a decrease in value of approximately $220
    million, based on the value as of December 27, 2008 using an
    assumed loss of 60%). The decrease in the assumed loss
    percentage from December 27, 2008 to December 26, 2009 is due to
    lower expected overall equity market volatility.

Many of the same factors that
    could result in an adverse movement of equity market prices
    affect our non-marketable equity investments, although we cannot
    always quantify the impact directly. Financial markets and
    credit markets are volatile, which could negatively affect the
    prospects of the companies we invest in, their ability to raise
    additional capital, and the likelihood of our being able to
    realize value in our investments through liquidity events such
    as initial public offerings, mergers, and private sales. These
    types of investments involve a great deal of risk, and there can
    be no assurance that any specific company will grow or become
    successful; consequently, we could lose all or part of our
    investment. Our non-marketable equity investments, excluding
    investments accounted for under the equity method, had a
    carrying amount of $939 million as of December 26, 2009 ($1.0
    billion as of December 27, 2008). As of December 26, 2009, the
    carrying amount of our non-marketable equity method investments
    was $2.5 billion ($3.0 billion as of December 27, 2008). A
    substantial majority of this balance as of December 26, 2009 was
    concentrated in companies in the flash memory market segment.
    Our flash memory market segment investments include our
    investment of $1.6 billion in IMFT/IMFS ($2.1 billion as of
    December 27, 2008) and $453 million in Numonyx ($484 million as
    of December 27, 2008).

In February 2010, we signed a
    definitive agreement with Micron and Numonyx under which Micron
    agreed to acquire Numonyx in an all-stock transaction. The value
    of the Micron common stock that we would receive upon the
    closing of the transaction is subject to equity market risk. For
    further information, see  Note 11: Non-Marketable
    Equity Investments  in Part II, Item 8 of this
     Form 10-K. 

48

Table of Contents   

ITEM
    8.   

FINANCIAL
    STATEMENTS AND SUPPLEMENTARY DATA  

INDEX TO
    CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS  

Page 

Consolidated Statements of Operations 

50

Consolidated Balance Sheets 

51

Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows 

52

Consolidated Statements of Stockholders 
    Equity 

53

Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements 

54

Reports of Ernst   Young LLP, Independent
    Registered Public Accounting Firm 

111

Supplemental Data: Financial Information by
    Quarter 

113

49

Table of Contents   

INTEL
    CORPORATION 
       CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF
    OPERATIONS  

See accompanying notes. 

50

Table of Contents   

INTEL
    CORPORATION 
       CONSOLIDATED BALANCE
    SHEETS  

1   

As adjusted due to changes to the accounting for convertible
    debt instruments. See  Note 3: Accounting Changes.   

See accompanying
    notes.  

51

Table of Contents   

INTEL
    CORPORATION 
       CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF CASH
    FLOWS  

See accompanying notes. 

52

Table of Contents   

INTEL
    CORPORATION 
       CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF
    STOCKHOLDERS  EQUITY  

1   

For further discussion of the cumulative-effect adjustments,
    see  Note 3: Accounting Changes.   

See accompanying notes. 

53

Table of Contents   

INTEL
    CORPORATION 
    NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS  

Note 1:
    Basis of Presentation  

We have a 52- or 53-week fiscal
    year that ends on the last Saturday in December. Fiscal years
    2009, 2008, and 2007 were all 52-week years. Our consolidated
    financial statements include the accounts of Intel Corporation
    and our wholly owned subsidiaries. Intercompany accounts and
    transactions have been eliminated. We use the equity method to
    account for equity investments in instances in which we own
    common stock or similar interests, and have the ability to
    exercise significant influence, but not control, over the
    investee. The U.S. dollar is the functional currency for Intel
    and our subsidiaries; therefore, we do not have a translation
    adjustment recorded through accumulated other comprehensive
    income (loss).

Customer credit balances are
    included in other accrued liabilities and were $293 million as
    of December 26, 2009 ($447 million as of December 27, 2008).

We have evaluated subsequent
    events through the date that the financial statements were
    issued on February 22, 2010.

Note 2:
    Accounting Policies  

Use of
    Estimates   

The preparation of consolidated
    financial statements in conformity with U.S. generally accepted
    accounting principles requires us to make estimates and
    judgments that affect the amounts reported in our consolidated
    financial statements and the accompanying notes. The accounting
    estimates that require our most significant, difficult, and
    subjective judgments include:

the valuation of non-marketable
    equity investments and the determination of
     other-than-temporary 
    impairments;

the assessment of recoverability
    of long-lived assets;

the recognition and measurement of
    current and deferred income taxes (including the measurement of
    uncertain tax positions); and

the valuation of inventory.

The actual results that we
    experience may differ materially from our estimates.

Trading
    Assets   

Marketable debt instruments are
    designated as trading assets when the interest rate or foreign
    exchange rate risk is hedged at inception with a related
    derivative instrument. Investments designated as trading assets
    are reported at fair value. The gains or losses of these
    investments arising from changes in fair value due to interest
    rate and currency market fluctuations and credit market
    volatility, offset by losses or gains on the related derivative
    instruments, are recorded in interest and other, net. We also
    designate certain floating-rate securitized financial
    instruments, primarily asset-backed securities purchased after
    December 30, 2006, as trading assets.

During 2009, we sold our equity
    securities offsetting deferred compensation and entered into
    derivative instruments that seek to offset changes in
    liabilities related to these deferred compensation arrangements.
    Gains or losses from changes in fair value of these equity
    securities were offset against losses or gains on the related
    liabilities and included in interest and other, net. See
     Note 8: Derivative Financial Instruments  for further
    information on our equity market risk management programs.

Available-for-Sale 
    Investments   

We consider all liquid
     available-for-sale 
    debt instruments with original maturities from the date of
    purchase of approximately three months or less to be cash and
    cash equivalents.
     Available-for-sale 
    debt instruments with original maturities at the date of
    purchase greater than approximately three months and remaining
    maturities of less than one year are classified as short-term
    investments.
     Available-for-sale 
    debt instruments with remaining maturities beyond one year are
    classified as other long-term investments.

54

Table of Contents   

INTEL
    CORPORATION 
    NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
    (Continued)  

Investments that we designate as
     available-for-sale 
    are reported at fair value, with unrealized gains and losses,
    net of tax, recorded in accumulated other comprehensive income
    (loss), except as noted in the
      Other-Than-Temporary 
    Impairment  section below. We determine the cost of the
    investment sold based on the specific identification method. Our
     available-for-sale 
    investments include:

Marketable debt instruments
       when the interest rate
    and foreign currency risks are not hedged at inception of the
    investment or when our designation for trading assets is not
    met. We hold these debt instruments to generate a return
    commensurate with the
     U.S.-dollar 
    three-month LIBOR. We record the interest income and realized
    gains and losses on the sale of these instruments in interest
    and other, net.

Marketable equity securities
       when the investments
    are considered strategic in nature at the time of original
    classification or there are barriers to mitigating equity market
    risk through the sale or use of derivative instruments at the
    time of original classification. We acquire these equity
    investments for the promotion of business and strategic
    objectives. To the extent that these investments continue to
    have strategic value, we typically do not attempt to reduce or
    eliminate the equity market risks through hedging activities. We
    record the realized gains or losses on the sale or exchange of
    marketable equity securities in gains (losses) on other equity
    investments, net.

Non-Marketable
    Equity Investments   

Our non-marketable equity
    investments are included in other long-term assets. We account
    for non-marketable equity investments for which we do not have
    control over the investee as:

Equity method investments
       when we have the
    ability to exercise significant influence, but not control, over
    the investee. Gains (losses) on equity method investments, net
    may be recorded with up to a one-quarter lag.

Cost method investments
       when the equity method
    does not apply. We record the realized gains or losses on the
    sale of
     non-marketable 
    cost method investments in gains (losses) on other equity
    investments, net.

Other-Than-Temporary 
    Impairment   

All of our
     available-for-sale 
    investments and non-marketable equity investments are subject to
    a periodic impairment review. Investments are considered
    impaired when the fair value is below the investment s cost
    basis/amortized cost. Impairments affect earnings as follows:

Marketable debt instruments
       when the fair value is
    below amortized cost and (1) we intend to sell the instrument,
    (2) it is more likely than not that we will be required to sell
    the instrument before recovery of its amortized cost basis, or
    (3) we do not expect to recover the entire amortized cost basis
    of the instrument (that is, a credit loss exists).
     Other-than-temporary 
    impairments are separated into amounts representing credit
    losses, which are recognized in earnings, and amounts related to
    all other factors, which are recognized in other comprehensive
    income (loss).

Marketable equity securities
       based on the specific
    facts and circumstances present at the time of assessment, which
    include the consideration of general market conditions, the
    duration and extent to which the fair value is below cost, and
    our intent and ability to hold the investment for a sufficient
    period of time to allow for recovery in value in the foreseeable
    future. We also consider specific adverse conditions related to
    the financial health of, and business outlook for, the investee,
    which may include industry and sector performance, changes in
    technology, operational and financing cash flow factors, and
    changes in the investee s credit rating. We record
     other-than-temporary 
    impairment charges on marketable equity securities in gains
    (losses) on other equity investments, net.

Non-marketable equity
    investments    based on
    our assessment of the severity and duration of the impairment,
    and qualitative and quantitative analysis, including:

the investee s revenue and
    earning trends relative to pre-defined milestones and overall
    business prospects;

the technological feasibility of
    the investee s products and technologies;

the general market conditions in
    the investee s industry or geographic area, including
    adverse regulatory or economic changes;

factors related to the
    investee s ability to remain in business, such as the
    investee s liquidity, debt ratios, and the rate at which
    the investee is using its cash; and

the investee s receipt of
    additional funding at a lower valuation.

We record
     other-than-temporary 
    impairment charges in gains (losses) on equity method
    investments, net for non-marketable equity method investments
    and in gains (losses) on other equity investments, net for
    non-marketable cost method investments.

55

Table of Contents   

INTEL
    CORPORATION 
    NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
    (Continued)  

Derivative
    Financial Instruments   

Our primary objective for holding
    derivative financial instruments is to manage currency exchange
    rate and interest rate risk, and to a lesser extent, equity
    market and commodity price risk. Our derivative financial
    instruments are recorded at fair value and are included in other
    current assets, other long-term assets, other accrued
    liabilities, or other long-term liabilities.

Our accounting policies for
    derivative financial instruments are based on whether they meet
    the criteria for designation as cash flow or fair value hedges.
    A designated hedge of the exposure to variability in the future
    cash flows of an asset or a liability, or of a forecasted
    transaction, is referred to as a cash flow hedge. A designated
    hedge of the exposure to changes in fair value of an asset or a
    liability, or of an unrecognized firm commitment, is referred to
    as a fair value hedge. The criteria for designating a derivative
    as a hedge include the assessment of the instrument s
    effectiveness in risk reduction, matching of the derivative
    instrument to its underlying transaction, and the assessment of
    the probability that the underlying transaction will occur. For
    derivatives with cash flow hedge accounting designation, we
    report the after-tax gain or loss from the effective portion of
    the hedge as a component of accumulated other comprehensive
    income (loss) and reclassify it into earnings in the same period
    or periods in which the hedged transaction affects earnings, and
    within the same line item on the consolidated statements of
    operations as the impact of the hedged transaction. For
    derivatives with fair value hedge accounting designation, we
    recognize gains or losses from the change in fair value of these
    derivatives, as well as the offsetting change in the fair value
    of the underlying hedged item, in earnings. Derivatives that we
    designate as hedges are classified in the consolidated
    statements of cash flows in the same section as the underlying
    item, primarily within cash flows from operating activities.

We recognize gains and losses from
    changes in fair values of derivatives that are not designated as
    hedges for accounting purposes within the line item on the
    consolidated statements of operations most closely associated
    with the economic underlying, primarily in interest and other,
    net. As part of our strategic investment program, we also
    acquire equity derivative instruments, such as warrants and
    equity conversion rights associated with debt instruments, that
    we do not designate as hedging instruments. We recognize the
    gains or losses from changes in fair values of these equity
    derivative instruments in gains (losses) on other equity
    investments, net. Gains and losses from derivatives not
    designated as hedges are classified in cash flows from operating
    activities.

Measurement
    of Effectiveness  

Effectiveness for forwards
       is generally measured
    by comparing the cumulative change in the fair value of the
    hedge contract with the cumulative change in the present value
    of the forecasted cash flows of the hedged item. For currency
    forward contracts used in cash flow hedging strategies related
    to capital purchases, forward points are excluded, and
    effectiveness is measured using spot rates to value both the
    hedge contract and the hedged item. For currency forward
    contracts used in cash flow hedging strategies related to
    operating expenditures, forward points are included and
    effectiveness is measured using forward rates to value both the
    hedge contract and the hedged item.

Effectiveness for currency
    options and equity options with hedge accounting designation
       is generally measured
    by comparing the cumulative change in the intrinsic value of the
    hedge contract with the cumulative change in the intrinsic value
    of an option instrument representing the hedged risks in the
    hedged item for cash flow hedges. For cash flow and fair value
    hedges, time value is excluded and effectiveness is measured
    based on spot rates to value both the hedge contract and the
    hedged item.

Effectiveness for interest rate
    swaps and commodity swaps
       is generally measured
    by comparing the change in fair value of the hedged item with
    the change in fair value of the swap.

If a cash flow hedge is
    discontinued because it is no longer probable that the original
    hedged transaction will occur as anticipated, the unrealized
    gain or loss on the related derivative is reclassified into
    earnings. Subsequent gains or losses on the related derivative
    instrument are recognized in interest and other, net in each
    period until the instrument matures, is terminated, is
    re-designated as a qualified hedge, or is sold. Ineffective
    portions of cash flow hedges and fair value hedges, as well as
    amounts excluded from the assessment of effectiveness, are
    recognized in earnings in interest and other, net. For further
    discussion of our derivative instruments, see  Note 8:
    Derivative Financial Instruments. 

56

Table of Contents   

INTEL
    CORPORATION 
    NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
    (Continued)  

Loans
    Receivable   

We make loans to third parties
    that are classified within other current assets or other
    long-term assets. We may elect the fair value option for loans
    when the interest rate or foreign exchange rate risk is hedged
    at inception with a related derivative instrument. We record the
    gains or losses on these loans arising from changes in fair
    value due to interest rate, currency market fluctuations, and
    credit market volatility, offset by losses or gains on the
    related derivative instruments, in interest and other, net.
    Loans that are denominated in U.S. dollars and have a
    floating-rate coupon are carried at amortized cost. We measure
    interest income for all loans receivable using the interest
    method, which is based on the effective yield of the loans
    rather than the stated coupon rate.

Inventories   

We compute inventory cost on a
    currently adjusted standard basis (which approximates actual
    cost on an average or
     first-in, 
    first-out basis). Inventories at year-ends were as follows:

Property,
    Plant and Equipment   

Property, plant and equipment, net
    at year-ends was as follows:

1   

As adjusted due to changes to the accounting for convertible
    debt instruments. See  Note 3: Accounting Changes.   

We compute depreciation for
    financial reporting purposes using the straight-line method over
    the following estimated useful lives: machinery and equipment, 2
    to 4 years; buildings, 4 to 40 years.

We capitalize interest on
    borrowings related to eligible capital expenditures. Capitalized
    interest is added to the cost of qualified assets and amortized
    over the estimated useful lives of the assets. We record
    capital-related government grants earned as a reduction to
    property, plant and equipment.

57

Table of Contents   

INTEL
    CORPORATION 
    NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
    (Continued)  

Goodwill   

We record goodwill when the
    purchase price of an acquisition exceeds the fair value of the
    net tangible and intangible assets as of the date of
    acquisition. We perform a quarterly review of goodwill for
    indicators of impairment. During the fourth quarter of each
    year, we perform an impairment review for each reporting unit
    using a fair value approach. We do not identify manufacturing
    and assembly and test assets with individual reporting units
    because of the interchangeable nature of our manufacturing and
    assembly and test assets. In determining the carrying value of
    the reporting unit, we make an allocation of our manufacturing
    and assembly and test assets based on each reporting unit s
    relative percentage utilization of the manufacturing and
    assembly and test assets. For further discussion of goodwill,
    see  Note 17: Goodwill. 

Identified
    Intangible Assets   

Intellectual property assets
    primarily represent rights acquired under technology licenses
    and are generally amortized on a straight-line basis over the
    periods of benefit, ranging from 3 to 17 years. We amortize
    acquisition-related developed technology based on economic
    benefit over the estimated useful life, ranging from 4 to 7
    years. We amortize other intangible assets over periods ranging
    from 4 to 7 years. We amortize acquisition-related in-process
    research and development over the estimated useful life once the
    research and development efforts are completed. In the quarter
    following the period in which identified intangible assets
    become fully amortized, the fully amortized balances are removed
    from the gross asset and accumulated amortization amounts.

We perform a quarterly review of
    identified intangible assets to determine if facts and
    circumstances indicate that the useful life is shorter than we
    had originally estimated or that the carrying amount of assets
    may not be recoverable. If such facts and circumstances exist,
    we assess the recoverability of identified intangible assets by
    comparing the projected undiscounted net cash flows associated
    with the related asset or group of assets over their remaining
    lives against their respective carrying amounts. Impairments, if
    any, are based on the excess of the carrying amount over the
    fair value of those assets. If the useful life is shorter than
    originally estimated, we accelerate the rate of amortization and
    amortize the remaining carrying value over the new shorter
    useful life.

For further discussion of
    identified intangible assets, see  Note 18: Identified
    Intangible Assets. 

Product
    Warranty   

The vast majority of our products
    are sold with a limited warranty on product quality and a
    limited indemnification for customers against intellectual
    property infringement claims related to our products. The
    accrual and the related expense for known issues were not
    significant during the periods presented. Due to product
    testing, the short time typically between product shipment and
    the detection and correction of product failures, and the
    historical rate of payments on indemnification claims, the
    accrual and related expense for estimated incurred but
    unidentified issues were not significant during the periods
    presented.

Revenue
    Recognition   

We recognize net product revenue
    when the earnings process is complete, as evidenced by an
    agreement with the customer, transfer of title, and acceptance,
    if applicable, as well as fixed pricing and probable
    collectability. We record pricing allowances, including
    discounts based on contractual arrangements with customers, when
    we recognize revenue as a reduction to both accounts receivable
    and net revenue. Because of frequent sales price reductions and
    rapid technology obsolescence in the industry, we defer product
    revenue and related costs of sales from sales made to
    distributors under agreements allowing price protection
     and/or  right
    of return until the distributors sell the merchandise. The right
    of return granted generally consists of a stock rotation program
    in which distributors are able to exchange certain products
    based on the number of qualified purchases made by the
    distributor. Under the price protection program, we give
    distributors credits for the difference between the original
    price paid and the current price that we offer. We record the
    net deferred income from product sales to distributors on our
    balance sheet as deferred income on shipments to distributors.
    We include shipping charges billed to customers in net revenue,
    and include the related shipping costs in cost of sales.

Sales of software, primarily
    through our Wind River Software Group, are made through term
    licenses that are generally 12 months in length, or perpetual
    licenses. Revenue is generally recognized ratably over the
    course of the license.

58

Table of Contents   

INTEL
    CORPORATION 
    NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
    (Continued)  

Advertising   

Cooperative advertising programs
    reimburse customers for marketing activities for certain of our
    products, subject to defined criteria. We accrue cooperative
    advertising obligations and record the costs at the same time
    that the related revenue is recognized. We record cooperative
    advertising costs as marketing, general and administrative
    expenses to the extent that an advertising benefit separate from
    the revenue transaction can be identified and the fair value of
    that advertising benefit received is determinable. We record any
    excess in cash paid over the fair value of the advertising
    benefit received as a reduction in revenue. Advertising costs,
    including direct marketing costs, recorded within marketing,
    general and administrative expenses were $1.39 billion in 2009
    ($1.86 billion in 2008 and $1.90 billion in 2007).

Employee
    Equity Incentive Plans   

We have employee equity incentive
    plans, which are described more fully in  Note 23: Employee
    Equity Incentive Plans.  We use the straight-line
    attribution method to recognize share-based compensation over
    the service period of the award. Upon exercise, cancellation,
    forfeiture, or expiration of stock options, or upon vesting or
    forfeiture of restricted stock units, we eliminate deferred tax
    assets for options and restricted stock units with multiple
    vesting dates for each vesting period on a
     first-in, 
    first-out basis as if each vesting period were a separate award.

Note 3:
    Accounting Changes  

2007  

In 2007, we adopted standards that
    required companies to accrue the cost of compensated absences
    for sabbatical leave over the service period. We adopted these
    standards through a cumulative-effect adjustment at the
    beginning of 2007, resulting in an additional liability of $280
    million, additional deferred tax assets of $99 million, and a
    reduction to retained earnings of $181 million. We also adopted
    standards that changed the accounting for uncertain tax
    positions. For further discussion, see  Note 27:
    Taxes. 

2008  

In the first quarter of 2008, we
    adopted new standards for fair value measurements for all
    financial assets and liabilities recognized or disclosed at fair
    value in the consolidated financial statements on a recurring
    basis (at least annually). The standards defined fair value,
    established a framework for measuring fair value, and enhanced
    fair value measurement disclosures. The adoption of these new
    standards did not have a significant impact on our consolidated
    financial statements, and the resulting fair values calculated
    after adoption were not significantly different from the fair
    values that would have been calculated under previous guidance.
    As discussed below, we adopted the fair value measurement
    standards for our non-financial assets and liabilities in the
    first quarter of 2009. For further discussion of our fair value
    measurements, see  Note 5: Fair Value. 

In the fourth quarter of 2008, we
    adopted new standards that clarified the application of fair
    value in a market that is not active, and addressed application
    issues such as the use of internal assumptions when relevant
    observable data does not exist, the use of observable market
    information when the market is not active, and the use of market
    quotes when assessing the relevance of observable and
    unobservable data. The adoption of these new standards did not
    have a significant impact on our consolidated financial
    statements or the fair values of our financial assets and
    liabilities.

59

Table of Contents   

INTEL
    CORPORATION 
    NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
    (Continued)  

In the first quarter of 2008, we
    adopted new standards that permitted companies to choose to
    measure certain financial instruments and other items at fair
    value using an
     instrument-by-instrument 
    election. The new standards required unrealized gains and losses
    to be reported in earnings for items measured using the fair
    value option. For further discussion, see  Note 5: Fair
    Value.  These new standards also required cash flows from
    purchases, sales, and maturities of trading securities to be
    classified based on the nature and purpose for which the
    securities were acquired. We assessed the nature and purpose of
    our trading assets and determined that our marketable debt
    instruments will be classified on the statement of cash flows as
    investing activities, as they are held with the purpose of
    generating returns. Activity related to equity securities
    offsetting deferred compensation remained classified as
    operating activities, as they were maintained to offset changes
    in liabilities related to the equity market risk of certain
    deferred compensation arrangements. These standards did not
    allow for retrospective application to periods prior to 2008;
    therefore, all trading asset activity for prior periods will
    continue to be presented as operating activities on the
    statement of cash flows.

In the first quarter of 2008,
    amended views of the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission
    (SEC) on the use of the simplified method in developing
    estimates of the expected lives of share options became
    effective for us. The amendment, in part, allowed the continued
    use, subject to specific criteria, of the simplified method in
    estimating the expected lives of share options granted after
    December 31, 2007. We will continue to use the simplified method
    until we have the historical data necessary to provide
    reasonable estimates of expected lives.

2009  

In the first quarter of 2009, we
    adopted new standards that changed the accounting for
    convertible debt instruments with cash settlement features. As
    of adoption, these new standards applied to our junior
    subordinated convertible debentures issued in 2005 (the 2005
    debentures). Under the previous standards, our 2005 debentures
    were recognized entirely as a liability at historical value. In
    accordance with adopting these new standards, we retrospectively
    recognized both a liability and an equity component of the 2005
    debentures at fair value. The liability component is recognized
    as the fair value of a similar instrument that does not have a
    conversion feature at issuance. The equity component, which is
    the value of the conversion feature at issuance, is recognized
    as the difference between the proceeds from the issuance of the
    2005 debentures and the fair value of the liability component,
    after adjusting for the deferred tax impact. The 2005 debentures
    were issued at a coupon rate of 2.95%, which was below that of a
    similar instrument that did not have a conversion feature
    (6.45%). Therefore, the valuation of the debt component, using
    the income approach, resulted in a debt discount. The debt
    discount is reduced over the expected life of the debt, which is
    also the stated life of the debt. These new standards are also
    applicable in accounting for our convertible debt issued during
    2009. See  Note 20: Borrowings  for further discussion.

As a result of applying these new
    standards retrospectively to all periods presented, we
    recognized the following incremental effects on individual line
    items on the consolidated balance sheets:

1   

Primarily related to the adjustment made to the net deferred
    tax asset.  

The adoption of these new
    standards did not result in a change to our prior-period
    consolidated statements of operations, as the interest
    associated with our debt issuances is capitalized and added to
    the cost of qualified assets. The adoption of these new
    standards did not result in a significant change to depreciation
    expense or earnings per common share for 2009.

60

Table of Contents   

INTEL
    CORPORATION 
    NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
    (Continued)  

In the first quarter of 2009, we
    adopted revised standards for business combinations. These
    revised standards generally require an entity to recognize the
    assets, liabilities, contingencies, and contingent consideration
    at their fair value on the acquisition date. For circumstances
    in which the acquisition-date fair value for a contingency
    cannot be determined during the measurement period and it is
    concluded that it is probable that an asset or liability exists
    as of the acquisition date and the amount can be reasonably
    estimated, a contingency is recognized as of the acquisition
    date based on the estimated amount. It further requires that
    acquisition-related costs be recognized separately from the
    acquisition and expensed as incurred, restructuring costs
    generally be expensed in periods subsequent to the acquisition
    date, and changes in estimates for accounting of deferred tax
    asset valuation allowances and acquired income tax uncertainties
    that occur subsequent to the measurement period be reflected in
    income tax expense (benefit). In addition, acquired in-process
    research and development is capitalized as an intangible asset.
    These new standards became applicable to business combinations
    on a prospective basis beginning in the first quarter of 2009.
    Our acquisitions completed during 2009 have been accounted for
    using these revised standards. See  Note 15:
    Acquisitions. 

In the first quarter of 2009, we
    adopted new standards that specify the way in which fair value
    measurements should be made for
     non-financial 
    assets and non-financial liabilities that are not measured and
    recorded at fair value on a recurring basis, and specify
    additional disclosures related to these fair value measurements.
    The adoption of these new standards did not have a significant
    impact on our consolidated financial statements.

In the second quarter of 2009, we
    adopted new standards that provide guidance on how to determine
    the fair value of assets and liabilities when the volume and
    level of activity for the asset/liability have significantly
    decreased. These new standards also provide guidance on
    identifying circumstances that indicate a transaction is not
    orderly. In addition, we are required to disclose in interim and
    annual periods the inputs and valuation techniques used to
    measure fair value and a discussion of changes in valuation
    techniques. The adoption of these new standards did not have a
    significant impact on our consolidated financial statements.

In the second quarter of 2009, we
    adopted new standards for the recognition and measurement of
     other-than-temporary 
    impairments for debt securities that replaced the pre-existing
     intent and ability  indicator. These new standards
    specify that if the fair value of a debt security is less than
    its amortized cost basis, an
     other-than-temporary 
    impairment is triggered in circumstances in which (1) an entity
    has an intent to sell the security, (2) it is more likely than
    not that the entity will be required to sell the security before
    recovery of its amortized cost basis, or (3) the entity does not
    expect to recover the entire amortized cost basis of the
    security (that is, a credit loss exists).
     Other-than-temporary 
    impairments are separated into amounts representing credit
    losses, which are recognized in earnings, and amounts related to
    all other factors, which are recognized in other comprehensive
    income (loss). The adoption of these new standards did not have
    a significant impact on our consolidated financial statements.
    See  Note 7:
     Available-for-Sale 
    Investments  for further discussion.

In the third quarter of 2009, we
    adopted amended standards for the fair value measurement of
    liabilities. These amended standards clarify that in
    circumstances in which a quoted price in an active market for
    the identical liability is not available, we are required to use
    the quoted price of the identical liability when traded as an
    asset, quoted prices for similar liabilities, or quoted prices
    for similar liabilities when traded as assets. If these quoted
    prices are not available, we are required to use another
    valuation technique, such as an income approach or a market
    approach. These amended standards became effective for us
    beginning in the fourth quarter of 2009 and did not have a
    significant impact on our consolidated financial statements.

Note 4:
    Recent Accounting Standards  

In June 2009, the Financial
    Accounting Standards Board (FASB) issued new standards for the
    accounting for transfers of financial assets. These new
    standards eliminate the concept of a qualifying special-purpose
    entity; remove the scope exception from applying the accounting
    standards that address the consolidation of variable interest
    entities to qualifying
     special-purpose 
    entities; change the standards for
     de-recognizing 
    financial assets; and require enhanced disclosure. These new
    standards are effective for us beginning in the first quarter of
    2010, and are not expected to have a significant impact on our
    consolidated financial statements.

In June 2009, the FASB issued
    amended standards for determining whether to consolidate a
    variable interest entity. These amended standards eliminate a
    mandatory quantitative approach to determine whether a variable
    interest gives the entity a controlling financial interest in a
    variable interest entity in favor of a qualitatively focused
    analysis, and require an ongoing reassessment of whether an
    entity is the primary beneficiary. These amended standards are
    effective for us beginning in the first quarter of 2010 and are
    not expected to have a significant impact on our consolidated
    financial statements.

61

Table of Contents   

INTEL
    CORPORATION 
    NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
    (Continued)  

In October 2009, the FASB issued
    new standards for revenue recognition with multiple
    deliverables. These new standards impact the determination of
    when the individual deliverables included in a multiple-element
    arrangement may be treated as separate units of accounting.
    Additionally, these new standards modify the manner in which the
    transaction consideration is allocated across the separately
    identified deliverables by no longer permitting the residual
    method of allocating arrangement consideration. These new
    standards are required to be adopted in the first quarter of
    2011; however, early adoption is permitted. We do not expect
    these new standards to significantly impact our consolidated
    financial statements.

In October 2009, the FASB issued
    new standards for the accounting for certain revenue
    arrangements that include software elements. These new standards
    amend the scope of pre-existing software revenue guidance by
    removing from the guidance non-software components of tangible
    products and certain software components of tangible products.
    These new standards are required to be adopted in the first
    quarter of 2011; however, early adoption is permitted. We do not
    expect these new standards to significantly impact our
    consolidated financial statements.

In January 2010, the FASB issued
    amended standards that require additional fair value
    disclosures. These amended standards require disclosures about
    inputs and valuation techniques used to measure fair value as
    well as disclosures about significant transfers, beginning in
    the first quarter of 2010. Additionally, these amended standards
    require presentation of disaggregated activity within the
    reconciliation for fair value measurements using significant
    unobservable inputs (Level 3), beginning in the first quarter of
    2011. We do not expect these new standards to significantly
    impact our consolidated financial statements.

Note 5:
    Fair Value  

Fair value is the price that would
    be received from selling an asset or paid to transfer a
    liability in an orderly transaction between market participants
    at the measurement date. When determining fair value, we
    consider the principal or most advantageous market in which we
    would transact, and we consider assumptions that market
    participants would use when pricing the asset or liability. Our
    financial instruments are measured and recorded at fair value,
    except for equity method investments, cost method investments,
    cost method loans receivable, and most of our liabilities.

Fair
    Value Hierarchy   

The three levels of inputs that
    may be used to measure fair value are as follows:

Level
    1.    Quoted prices
    in active markets for identical assets or liabilities.

Level
    2.    Observable
    inputs other than Level 1 prices, such as quoted prices for
    similar assets or liabilities, quoted prices in markets with
    insufficient volume or infrequent transactions (less active
    markets), or model-derived valuations in which all significant
    inputs are observable or can be derived principally from or
    corroborated with observable market data for substantially the
    full term of the assets or liabilities. Level 2 inputs also
    include non-binding market consensus prices that can be
    corroborated with observable market data, as well as quoted
    prices that were adjusted for security-specific restrictions.

Level
    3.    Unobservable
    inputs to the valuation methodology that are significant to the
    measurement of the fair value of assets or liabilities. Level 3
    inputs also include non-binding market consensus prices or
    non-binding broker quotes that we were unable to corroborate
    with observable market data.

62

Table of Contents   

INTEL
    CORPORATION 
    NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
    (Continued)  

Assets/Liabilities
    Measured and Recorded at Fair Value on a Recurring
    Basis   

Assets and liabilities measured
    and recorded at fair value on a recurring basis, excluding
    accrued interest components, consisted of the following types of
    instruments as of December 26, 2009 and December 27, 2008:

1   

Includes bonds issued or deemed to be guaranteed by
     non-U.S. 
    governments, Federal Deposit Insurance Company
     (FDIC)-insured 
    corporate bonds, U.S. agency securities, and U.S. Treasury
    securities.  

63

Table of Contents   

INTEL
    CORPORATION 
    NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
    (Continued)  

The tables below present
    reconciliations for all assets and liabilities measured and
    recorded at fair value on a recurring basis, excluding accrued
    interest components, using significant unobservable inputs
    (Level 3) for 2009 and 2008:

1   

Gains and losses (realized and unrealized) included in
    earnings are primarily reported in interest and other, net on
    the consolidated statements of operations.  

2   

Transferred from Level 3 to Level 2 due to a greater
    availability of observable market data and/or non-binding market
    consensus prices to value or corroborate the value of these
    instruments.  

1   

Gains and losses (realized and unrealized) included in
    earnings are primarily reported in interest and other, net on
    the consolidated statements of operations.  

2   

Transferred from Level 3 to Level 2 due to a greater
    availability of observable market data and/or non-binding market
    consensus prices to value or corroborate the value of these
    instruments.  

64

Table of Contents   

INTEL
    CORPORATION 
    NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
    (Continued)  

Fair
    Value Option for Financial Assets/Liabilities   

Under accounting standards issued
    in 2008, all of our non-convertible long-term debt was eligible
    to be accounted for at fair value. However, we elected this fair
    value option only for the bonds issued in 2007 by the Industrial
    Development Authority of the City of Chandler, Arizona (2007
    Arizona bonds). In connection with the 2007 Arizona bonds, we
    entered into a total return swap agreement that effectively
    converts the fixed rate obligation on the bonds to a floating
     U.S.-dollar 
    LIBOR-based rate. As a result, changes in the fair value of this
    debt are largely offset by changes in the fair value of the
    total return swap agreement, without the need to apply hedge
    accounting provisions. We did not elect this fair value option
    for our Arizona bonds issued in 2005, since the bonds were
    carried at amortized cost and were not eligible to apply hedge
    accounting provisions due to the use of non-derivative hedging
    instruments. The 2007 Arizona bonds are included within the
    long-term debt balance on our consolidated balance sheets. As of
    December 26, 2009 and December 27, 2008, no other instruments
    were similar to the long-term debt instrument for which we
    elected fair value treatment.

The fair value of the 2007 Arizona
    bonds approximated carrying value at the time that we elected
    the fair value option; therefore, we did not record a
    cumulative-effect adjustment to the beginning balance of
    retained earnings or to the deferred tax liability. As of
    December 26, 2009, the fair value of the 2007 Arizona bonds did
    not significantly differ from the contractual principal balance.
    The fair value of the 2007 Arizona bonds was determined using
    inputs that are observable in the market or that can be derived
    from or corroborated with observable market data, as well as
    unobservable inputs that were significant to the fair value.
    Gains and losses on the 2007 Arizona bonds are recorded in
    interest and other, net on the consolidated statements of
    operations. We capitalize interest associated with the 2007
    Arizona bonds. We add capitalized interest to the cost of
    qualified assets and amortize it over the estimated useful lives
    of the assets.

We elected the fair value option
    for loans made in the second quarter of 2009. These loans
    receivable are denominated in euros and mature in 2012 and 2013.
    In connection with these loans receivable, we entered into a
    currency interest rate swap agreement that effectively converts
    the euro-denominated fixed-rate loans receivable to a floating
     U.S.-dollar 
    LIBOR-based rate. As a result, changes in the fair value are
    largely offset by changes in the fair value of the currency
    interest rate swap agreement, without the need to apply hedge
    accounting provisions. We made a loan in the fourth quarter of
    2009 that is denominated in U.S. dollars and has a floating-rate
    coupon. Since the loan matched our investment objectives, we did
    not enter into any derivative instruments and did not elect the
    fair value option for the loan.

As of December 26, 2009, the fair
    value of our loans receivable for which we elected the fair
    value option did not significantly differ from the contractual
    principal balance. These loans receivable are classified within
    other long-term assets. Fair value is determined using a
    discounted cash flow model with all significant inputs derived
    from or corroborated with observable market data. Gains and
    losses from changes in fair value, as well as interest income,
    are recorded in interest and other, net on the consolidated
    statements of operations. During 2009, gains from fair value
    changes of our loans receivable were largely offset by losses
    from fair value changes of the currency interest rate swap,
    resulting in a negligible net impact on our consolidated
    statements of operations. Gains and losses attributable to
    changes in credit risk are determined using observable credit
    default spreads for comparable companies and were insignificant
    during 2009.

65

Table of Contents   

INTEL
    CORPORATION 
    NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
    (Continued)  

Assets
    Measured and Recorded at Fair Value on a Non-Recurring
    Basis   

The following table presents the
    financial instruments and non-financial assets that were
    measured and recorded at fair value on a
     non-recurring 
    basis during 2009, and the gains (losses) recorded during 2009
    on those assets:

The following table presents the
    financial instruments that were measured and recorded at fair
    value on a non-recurring basis during 2008, and the gains
    (losses) recorded during 2008 on those assets:

The carrying value of our impaired
    non-marketable equity investments may not equal our fair value
    measurement at the time of impairment due to the subsequent
    recognition of equity method adjustments.

A portion of our non-marketable
    equity investments were measured and recorded at fair value in
    2009 and 2008 due to events or circumstances that significantly
    impacted the fair value of those investments, resulting in
     other-than-temporary 
    impairment charges.

During 2008, we recorded a $762
    million impairment charge on our investment in Clearwire
    Communications, LLC (Clearwire LLC) to write down our investment
    to its fair value, primarily due to the fair value being
    significantly lower than the cost basis of our investment. The
    impairment charge was included in gains (losses) on equity
    method investments, net. We determine the fair value of our
    investment in Clearwire LLC primarily using the quoted prices
    for its parent company, Clearwire Corporation. The effects of
    adjusting the quoted price for premiums that we believe market
    participants would consider for Clearwire LLC, such as tax
    benefits and voting rights associated with our investments, were
    mostly offset by the effects of discounts to the fair value,
    such as those due to transfer restrictions, lack of liquidity,
    and differences in dividend rights that are included in the
    value of Clearwire Corporation stock. We classified our
    investment in Clearwire LLC as Level 2, as the unobservable
    inputs to the valuation methodology were not significant to the
    measurement of fair value. For further information about
    Clearwire LLC and Clearwire Corporation, see  Note 11:
     Non-Marketable 
    Equity Investments. 

66

Table of Contents   

INTEL
    CORPORATION 
    NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
    (Continued)  

We recorded a $250 million
    impairment charge on our investment in Numonyx B.V. during 2008
    to write down our investment to its fair value. Estimates for
    revenue, earnings, and future cash flows were revised lower due
    to a general decline in the NOR flash memory market segment in
    2008. We measured the fair value of our investment in Numonyx
    using a combination of the income approach and the market
    approach. The income approach included the use of a weighted
    average of multiple discounted cash flow scenarios of Numonyx,
    which required the use of unobservable inputs, including
    assumptions of projected revenue, expenses, capital spending,
    and other costs, as well as a discount rate calculated based on
    the risk profile of the flash memory market segment comparable
    to our investment in Numonyx. The market approach included the
    use of financial metrics and ratios, such as multiples of
    revenue and earnings of comparable public companies. The
    impairment charge was included in gains (losses) on equity
    method investments, net on the consolidated statements of
    operations.

We also measured and recorded
    other non-marketable equity investments at fair value during
    2009 and 2008 when we recognized
     other-than-temporary 
    impairment charges. We classified these measurements as Level 3,
    as we used unobservable inputs to the valuation methodologies
    that were significant to the fair value measurements, and the
    valuations required management judgment due to the absence of
    quoted market prices. We calculated these fair value
    measurements using the market and income approaches. The market
    approach includes the use of financial metrics and ratios of
    comparable public companies. The selection of comparable
    companies requires management judgment and is based on a number
    of factors, including comparable companies  sizes, growth
    rates, industries, development stages, and other relevant
    factors. The income approach includes the use of a discounted
    cash flow model, which requires the following significant
    estimates for the investee: revenue, based on assumed market
    segment size and assumed market segment share; costs; and
    discount rates based on the risk profile of comparable
    companies. Estimates of market segment size, market segment
    share, and costs are developed by the investee
     and/or  Intel
    using historical data and available market data. The valuation
    of these non-marketable equity investments also takes into
    account variables such as conditions reflected in the capital
    markets, recent financing activities by the investees, the
    investees  capital structure, and differences in seniority
    and rights associated with the investees  capital.

Additionally, certain of our
    property, plant and equipment were measured and recorded at fair
    value during 2009 due to events or circumstances we identified
    that indicated that the carrying value of the assets or the
    asset grouping was not recoverable, resulting in
     other-than-temporary 
    impairment charges. Most of these asset impairments related to
    manufacturing assets.

Financial
    Instruments Not Recorded at Fair Value on a Recurring
    Basis   

We measure our equity method
    investments, cost method investments, and cost method loans
    receivable at fair value quarterly; however, they are recorded
    at fair value only when an impairment charge is recognized. Our
    non-financial assets, such as intangible assets and property,
    plant and equipment, are measured at fair value when the
    carrying amount exceeds the undiscounted cash flows, and are
    recorded at fair value only when an impairment charge is
    recognized.

Financial instruments that are not
    recorded at fair value are measured at fair value quarterly for
    disclosure purposes. The carrying amounts and fair values of
    financial instruments not recorded at fair value as of December
    26, 2009 and December 27, 2008 were as follows:

The carrying amount and fair value
    of loans receivable exclude $249 million of loans measured and
    recorded at fair value as of December 26, 2009. The carrying
    amount and fair value of long-term debt exclude $123 million of
    long-term debt measured and recorded at fair value as of
    December 26, 2009 ($122 million as of December 27, 2008). In
    addition, the carrying amount and fair value of the current
    portion of long-term debt are included in long-term debt in the
    table above.

67

Table of Contents   

INTEL
    CORPORATION 
    NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
    (Continued)  

Our non-marketable equity
    investments include our investment in Numonyx. In February 2010,
    we signed a definitive agreement with Micron Technology, Inc.
    and Numonyx under which Micron agreed to acquire Numonyx in an
    all-stock transaction. The fair value of our investment in
    Numonyx was based on management s assessment as of
    December 26, 2009, and therefore the value implied by the
    pending sale was not included in that assessment. For further
    information, see  Note 11: Non-Marketable Equity
    Investments.  As of December 26, 2009, we had
    non-marketable equity investments in an unrealized loss position
    of $30 million that had a fair value of $205 million (unrealized
    loss position of $100 million on non-marketable equity
    investments with a fair value of $270 million as of December 27,
    2008).

The fair value of our loans
    receivable is determined using a discounted cash flow model with
    all significant inputs derived from or corroborated with
    observable market data. The fair value of our long-term debt
    takes into consideration variables such as credit-rating changes
    and interest rate changes.

Note 6:
    Trading Assets  

Trading assets outstanding as of
    December 26, 2009 and December 27, 2008 were as follows:

During 2009, we sold our equity
    securities offsetting deferred compensation and entered into
    derivative instruments that seek to offset changes in
    liabilities related to these deferred compensation arrangements.
    These deferred compensation liabilities were $511 million as of
    December 26, 2009 ($332 million as of December 27, 2008) and are
    included in other accrued liabilities. See  Note 8:
    Derivative Financial Instruments  for further information
    on our equity market risk management programs. Net losses on
    equity securities offsetting deferred compensation arrangements
    still held at the reporting date were $209 million in 2008
    (gains of $28 million in 2007).

Net gains on marketable debt
    instruments that we classified as trading assets held at the
    reporting date were $91 million in 2009 (losses of $132 million
    in 2008 and gains of $19 million in 2007). Net gains on the
    related derivatives were $18 million in 2009 (losses of $5
    million in 2008 and $37 million in 2007).

68

Table of Contents   

INTEL
    CORPORATION 
    NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
    (Continued)  

Note 7:
     Available-for-Sale 
    Investments  

Available-for-sale 
    investments as of December 26, 2009 and December 27, 2008 were
    as follows:

1   

As of December 26, 2009, unrealized non-credit components of
     other-than-temporary 
    impairments recognized on
     available-for-sale 
    investments were insignificant.  

2   

Includes bonds issued or deemed to be guaranteed by
     non-U.S. 
    governments, FDIC-insured corporate bonds, U.S. agency
    securities, and U.S. Treasury securities.  

3   

Bank time deposits were primarily issued by institutions
    outside the U.S. as of December 26, 2009 and December 27,
    2008.  

As of December 26, 2009, we had
    $33 million of gross unrealized losses on
     available-for-sale 
    investments, which included $26 million of gross unrealized
    losses related to individual securities that had been in a
    continuous loss position for 12 months or more. The
     available-for-sale 
    investments that were in an unrealized loss position as of
    December 27, 2008, aggregated by the length of time that
    individual securities had been in a continuous loss position,
    were as follows:

As of December 26, 2009, a
    majority of our
     available-for-sale 
    investments in an unrealized loss position were rated AA-/Aa3 or
    better. With the exception of a limited number of investments
    for which we have recognized
     other-than-temporary 
    impairments, we have not seen significant liquidation delays,
    and for those that have matured we have received the full par
    value of our original debt investments.

69

Table of Contents   

INTEL
    CORPORATION 
    NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
    (Continued)  

The amortized cost and fair value
    of
     available-for-sale 
    debt investments as of December 26, 2009, by contractual
    maturity, were as follows:

1   

Includes asset-backed securities and money market fund
    deposits.  

We sold
     available-for-sale 
    investments, primarily marketable equity securities, for
    proceeds of $192 million in 2009 ($1.2 billion in 2008 and $1.7
    billion in 2007, primarily marketable debt instruments). The
    gross realized gains on sales of
     available-for-sale 
    investments totaled $43 million in 2009 ($38 million in 2008 and
    $138 million in 2007) and were primarily related to our sales of
    marketable equity securities. We recognized gains of $56 million
    on third-party merger transactions during 2009 (insignificant
    during 2008 and 2007).

Impairment charges recognized on
     available-for-sale 
    investments were $9 million in 2009 ($354 million in 2008 and
    insignificant in 2007). The 2008 impairment charges were
    primarily related to a $176 million impairment charge on our
    investment in Clearwire Corporation and $97 million of
    impairment charges on our investment in Micron. Gross realized
    losses on sales were $64 million during 2009 (insignificant
    during 2008 and 2007) and were primarily related to asset-backed
    securities. We had previously recognized
     other-than-temporary 
    impairments totaling $34 million during 2008 and 2009 on these
    investments that were sold.

Note 8:
    Derivative Financial Instruments  

Our primary objective for holding
    derivative financial instruments is to manage currency exchange
    rate risk and interest rate risk, and to a lesser extent, equity
    market risk and commodity price risk. We currently do not hold
    derivative instruments for the purpose of managing credit risk
    since we limit the amount of credit exposure to any one
    counterparty and generally enter into derivative transactions
    with
     high-credit-quality 
    counterparties. For further discussion, see  Note 9:
    Concentrations of Credit Risk. 

Currency
    Exchange Rate Risk   

We are exposed to currency
    exchange rate risk on our
     non-U.S.-dollar-denominated 
    investments in debt instruments and loans receivable, which are
    generally hedged with offsetting currency forward contracts,
    currency options, or currency interest rate swaps. Substantially
    all of our revenue and a majority of our expense and capital
    purchasing activities are transacted in U.S. dollars. However,
    certain operating expenditures and capital purchases are
    incurred in or exposed to other currencies, primarily the
    Japanese yen, the euro, and the Israeli shekel. We have
    established balance sheet and forecasted transaction currency
    risk management programs to protect against fluctuations in fair
    value and the volatility of future cash flows caused by changes
    in exchange rates. These programs reduce, but do not always
    entirely eliminate, the impact of currency exchange movements.

Our currency risk management
    programs include:

Currency derivatives with cash
    flow hedge accounting designation
       that utilize currency
    forward contracts and currency options to hedge exposures to the
    variability in the
     U.S.-dollar 
    equivalent of anticipated
     non-U.S.-dollar-denominated 
    cash flows. These instruments generally mature within 12 months.
    For these derivatives, we report the
     after-tax 
    gain or loss from the effective portion of the hedge as a
    component of accumulated other comprehensive income (loss) and
    reclassify it into earnings in the same period or periods in
    which the hedged transaction affects earnings, and within the
    same line item on the consolidated statements of operations as
    the impact of the hedged transaction.

Currency derivatives without
    hedge accounting designation
       that utilize currency
    forward contracts, currency options, or currency interest rate
    swaps to economically hedge the functional currency equivalent
    cash flows of recognized monetary assets and liabilities and
     non-U.S.-dollar-denominated 
    debt instruments classified as trading assets. The maturity of
    these instruments generally occurs within 12 months, except for
    derivatives associated with certain
     long-term 
     equity-related 
    investments and our loans receivable that generally mature
    within five years. Changes in the
     U.S.-dollar-equivalent 
    cash flows of the underlying assets and liabilities are
    approximately offset by the changes in fair values of the
    related derivatives. We record net gains or losses in the line
    item on the consolidated statements of operations most closely
    associated with the economic underlying, primarily in interest
    and other, net, except for equity-related gains or losses, which
    we primarily record in gains (losses) on other equity
    investments, net.

70

Table of Contents   

INTEL
    CORPORATION 
    NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
    (Continued)  

Interest
    Rate Risk   

Our primary objective for holding
    investments in debt instruments is to preserve principal while
    maximizing yields. We generally swap the returns on our
    investments in
     fixed-rate 
    debt instruments with remaining maturities longer than six
    months into
     U.S.-dollar 
     three-month 
     LIBOR-based 
    returns, unless management specifically approves otherwise.

Our interest rate risk management
    programs include:

Interest rate derivatives with
    cash flow hedge accounting designation
       that utilize interest
    rate swap agreements to modify the interest characteristics of
    debt instruments. For these derivatives, we report the
     after-tax 
    gain or loss from the effective portion of the hedge as a
    component of accumulated other comprehensive income (loss) and
    reclassify it into earnings in the same period or periods in
    which the hedged transaction affects earnings, and within the
    same line item on the consolidated statements of operations as
    the impact of the hedged transaction.

Interest rate derivatives
    without hedge accounting designation
       that utilize interest
    rate swaps and currency interest rate swaps in economic hedging
    transactions, including hedges of
     non-U.S.-dollar-denominated 
    debt instruments classified as trading assets. Floating interest
    rates on the swaps are reset on a monthly, quarterly, or
    semiannual basis. Changes in fair value of the debt instruments
    classified as trading assets are generally offset by changes in
    fair value of the related derivatives, both of which are
    recorded in interest and other, net.

Equity
    Market Risk   

Our marketable investments include
    marketable equity securities and equity derivative instruments.
    To the extent that our marketable equity securities have
    strategic value, we typically do not attempt to reduce or
    eliminate our equity market exposure through hedging activity.
    We may enter into transactions to reduce or eliminate the equity
    market risks for our investments in strategic equity derivative
    instruments, including warrants. For securities that we no
    longer consider strategic, we evaluate legal, market, and
    economic factors in our decision on the timing of disposal and
    whether it is possible and appropriate to hedge the equity
    market risk. Our equity market risk management program includes
    equity derivatives without hedge accounting designation that
    utilize equity derivatives, such as warrants, equity options, or
    other equity derivatives. We recognize changes in the fair value
    of such derivatives in gains (losses) on other equity
    investments, net. We also utilize total return swaps to offset
    changes in liabilities related to the equity market risks of
    certain deferred compensation arrangements. Gains and losses
    from changes in fair value of these total return swaps are
    generally offset by the gains and losses on the related
    liabilities, both of which are recorded in interest and other,
    net.

As of December 27, 2008, we held
    equity securities, which were classified as trading assets, to
    generate returns that sought to offset changes in liabilities
    related to the equity market risk of certain deferred
    compensation arrangements. During 2009, we sold these securities
    and began utilizing derivative instruments to offset the equity
    market risks of these deferred compensation arrangements. The
    gains and losses on the derivative instruments are intended to
    more closely offset changes in the liabilities related to the
    deferred compensation arrangements than our previous method of
    investing in equity securities.

Commodity
    Price Risk   

We operate facilities that consume
    commodities, and have established forecasted transaction risk
    management programs to protect against fluctuations in fair
    value and the volatility of future cash flows caused by changes
    in commodity prices, such as those for natural gas. These
    programs reduce, but do not always entirely eliminate, the
    impact of commodity price movements.

Our commodity price risk
    management program includes commodity derivatives with cash flow
    hedge accounting designation that utilize commodity swap
    contracts to hedge future cash flow exposures to the variability
    in commodity prices. These instruments generally mature within
    12 months. For these derivatives, we report the
     after-tax 
    gain (loss) from the effective portion of the hedge as a
    component of accumulated other comprehensive income (loss) and
    reclassify it into earnings in the same period or periods in
    which the hedged transaction affects earnings, and within the
    same line item on the consolidated statements of operations as
    the impact of the hedged transaction.

71

Table of Contents   

INTEL
    CORPORATION 
    NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
    (Continued)  

Volume
    of Derivative Activity   

Total gross notional amounts for
    outstanding derivatives (recorded at fair value) as of December
    26, 2009 and December 27, 2008 were as follows:

The gross notional amounts for
    currency forwards, currency interest rate swaps, and currency
    options (presented by currency) as of December 26, 2009 and
    December 27, 2008 were as follows:

We utilize a rolling hedge
    strategy for the majority of our currency forward contracts with
    cash flow hedge accounting designation that hedges exposures to
    the variability in the
     U.S.-dollar 
    equivalent of anticipated
     non-U.S.-dollar-denominated 
    cash flows. All of our currency forward contracts are single
    delivery that are settled at maturity involving one cash-payment
    exchange.

We use interest rate swaps and
    currency interest rate swaps to hedge interest rate and currency
    exchange rate risk components for our
     fixed-rate 
    debt instruments with remaining maturities longer than six
    months and for debt instruments denominated in currencies other
    than the U.S. dollar. These swaps have multiple deliveries that
    are settled at various interest payment times involving cash
    payments at each interest and principal payment date, with the
    majority of the contracts having quarterly payments.

Credit-Risk-Related
    Contingent Features   

An insignificant amount of our
    derivative instruments contain
     credit-risk-related 
    contingent features, such as provisions that require our debt to
    maintain an
     investment-grade 
    credit rating from each of the major
     credit-rating 
    agencies. As of December 26, 2009 and December 27, 2008, we did
    not have any derivative instruments with
     credit-risk-related 
    contingent features that were in a significant net liability
    position.

72

Table of Contents   

INTEL
    CORPORATION 
    NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
    (Continued)  

Fair
    Values of Derivative Instruments in the Consolidated Balance
    Sheets   

The fair values of our derivative
    instruments as of December 26, 2009 and December 27, 2008 were
    as follows:

Derivatives
    in Cash Flow Hedging Relationships   

The before-tax effects of
    derivative instruments in cash flow hedging relationships for
    the years ended December 26, 2009 and December 27, 2008 were as
    follows:

We estimate that we will
    reclassify approximately $85 million (before taxes) of net
    derivative gains included in other accumulated comprehensive
    income (loss) into earnings within the next 12 months. For all
    periods presented, there was an insignificant impact on results
    of operations from discontinued cash flow hedges as a result of
    forecasted transactions that did not occur.

73

Table of Contents   

INTEL
    CORPORATION 
    NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
    (Continued)  

Derivatives
    Not Designated as Hedging Instruments   

The effects of derivative
    instruments not designated as hedging instruments on the
    consolidated statements of operations for the years ended
    December 26, 2009 and December 27, 2008 were as follows:

Note 9:
    Concentrations of Credit Risk  

Financial instruments that
    potentially subject us to concentrations of credit risk consist
    principally of investments in debt instruments, derivative
    financial instruments, loans receivable, and trade receivables.
    We also enter into master netting arrangements with
    counterparties when possible to mitigate credit risk in
    derivative transactions. A master netting arrangement may allow
    counterparties to net settle amounts owed to each other as a
    result of multiple, separate derivative transactions.

We generally place investments
    with high-credit-quality counterparties and, by policy, limit
    the amount of credit exposure to any one counterparty based on
    our analysis of that counterparty s relative credit
    standing. Substantially all of our investments in debt
    instruments are with
     A/A2  or
    better rated issuers, and a substantial majority of the issuers
    are rated
     AA-/Aa3  or
    better. Our investment policy requires substantially all
    investments with original maturities at the time of investment
    of up to six months to be rated at least
     A-1/P-1  by
    Standard   Poor s/Moody s, and specifies a higher
    minimum rating for investments with longer maturities. For
    instance, investments with maturities of greater than three
    years require a minimum rating of
     AA-/Aa3  at
    the time of investment. Government regulations imposed on
    investment alternatives of our
     non-U.S. 
    subsidiaries, or the absence of A rated counterparties in
    certain countries, result in some minor exceptions.
     Credit-rating 
    criteria for derivative instruments are similar to those for
    other investments. The amounts subject to credit risk related to
    derivative instruments are generally limited to the amounts, if
    any, by which a counterparty s obligations exceed our
    obligations with that counterparty. As of December 26, 2009, the
    total credit exposure to any single counterparty did not exceed
    $500 million. We obtain and secure available collateral from
    counterparties against obligations, including securities lending
    transactions, when we deem it appropriate.

A substantial majority of our
    trade receivables are derived from sales to original equipment
    manufacturers (OEMs) and original design manufacturers. We also
    have accounts receivable derived from sales to industrial and
    retail distributors. Our two largest customers accounted for 38%
    of net revenue for 2009 and 2008, and 35% of net revenue for
    2007. Additionally, these two largest customers accounted for
    41% of our accounts receivable as of December 26, 2009 and
    December 27, 2008. We believe that the receivable balances from
    these largest customers do not represent a significant credit
    risk based on cash flow forecasts, balance sheet analysis, and
    past collection experience.

We have adopted credit policies
    and standards intended to accommodate industry growth and
    inherent risk. We believe that credit risks are moderated by the
    financial stability of our major customers. We assess credit
    risk through quantitative and qualitative analysis, and from
    this analysis, we establish credit limits and determine whether
    we will seek to use one or more credit support devices, such as
    obtaining some form of third-party guaranty or standby letter of
    credit, or obtaining credit insurance for all or a portion of
    the account balance if necessary.

We continually monitor the credit
    risk in our portfolio and mitigate our credit and interest rate
    exposures in accordance with the policies approved by our Board
    of Directors. We intend to continue to closely monitor future
    developments in the credit markets and make appropriate changes
    to our investment policies as deemed necessary.

74

Table of Contents   

INTEL
    CORPORATION 
    NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
    (Continued)  

Note 10:
    Other Long-Term Assets  

Other long-term assets as of
    December 26, 2009 and December 27, 2008 were as follows:

1   

December 27, 2008 balance is as adjusted due to changes to
    the accounting for convertible debt instruments. See  Note
    3: Accounting Changes.   

Note 11:
    Non-Marketable Equity Investments  

Equity
    Method Investments   

Equity method investments as of
    December 26, 2009 and December 27, 2008 were as follows:

75

Table of Contents   

INTEL
    CORPORATION 
    NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
    (Continued)  

Summarized
    Financial Information of Equity Method Investees  

The following is the aggregated
    summarized financial information of our equity method investees,
    which includes summary results of operations information for
    2009, 2008, and 2007 and summary balance sheet information as of
    December 26, 2009 and December 27, 2008:

Summarized financial information
    for our equity method investees is presented on the basis of up
    to a one-quarter lag and is included for the periods in which we
    held an equity method ownership interest.

IMFT/IMFS  

Micron and Intel formed IM Flash
    Technologies, LLC (IMFT) in January 2006 and IM Flash Singapore,
    LLP (IMFS) in February 2007. We established these joint ventures
    to manufacture NAND flash memory products for Micron and Intel.
    We own a 49% interest in each of these ventures. Initial
    production at the IMFS fabrication facility, including the
    purchase and installation of manufacturing equipment, remains on
    hold. IMFT and IMFS are each governed by a Board of Managers,
    with Micron and Intel initially appointing an equal number of
    managers to each of the boards. The number of managers appointed
    by each party adjusts depending on the parties  ownership
    interests. These ventures will operate until 2016 but are
    subject to prior termination under certain terms and conditions.

These joint ventures are variable
    interest entities. All costs of the joint ventures will be
    passed on to Micron and Intel through our purchase agreements.
    IMFT and IMFS are dependent upon Micron and Intel for any
    additional cash requirements. Our known maximum exposure to loss
    approximated our investment balance as of December 26, 2009,
    which was $1.6 billion in IMFT/IMFS ($2.1 billion as of December
    27, 2008). Our investment in these ventures is classified within
    other long-term assets. As of December 26, 2009, except for the
    amount due to IMFT/IMFS for product purchases and services, we
    did not incur any additional liabilities in connection with our
    interests in these joint ventures. In addition to the potential
    loss of our existing investment, our actual losses could be
    higher, as Intel and Micron are liable for other future
    operating costs
     and/or 
    obligations of IMFT/IMFS. In addition, future cash calls could
    increase our investment balance and the related exposure to
    loss. Finally, as we are currently committed to purchasing 49%
    of IMFT s production output and production-related
    services, we may be required to purchase products at a cost in
    excess of realizable value.

Our portion of IMFT costs,
    primarily related to product purchases and
     start-up 
    costs, was $735 million during 2009 ($1.1 billion during 2008
    and $790 million during 2007). The amount due to IMFT for
    product purchases and services provided was $75 million as of
    December 26, 2009 and $190 million as of December 27, 2008.
    During 2009, $419 million was returned to Intel by IMFT, which
    is reflected as a return of equity method investment within
    investing activities on the consolidated statements of cash
    flows ($298 million during 2008).

76

Table of Contents   

INTEL
    CORPORATION 
    NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
    (Continued)  

Micron and Intel are considered
    related parties under the accounting standards for consolidating
    variable interest entities. As a result, the primary beneficiary
    is the entity that is most closely associated with the joint
    ventures. To make that determination, we reviewed several
    factors. The most important factors were consideration of the
    size and nature of the joint ventures  operations relative
    to Micron and Intel, and which party had the majority of
    economic exposure under the purchase agreements. Based on those
    factors, we have determined that we are not most closely
    associated with the joint ventures; therefore, we account for
    our interests using the equity method of accounting and do not
    consolidate these joint ventures.

Numonyx  

In 2008, we divested our NOR flash
    memory business in exchange for a 45.1% ownership interest in
    Numonyx. For further discussion, see  Note 16:
    Divestitures.  Our initial ownership interest, comprising
    common stock and a note receivable, was recorded at $821
    million. Our investment is accounted for under the equity method
    of accounting, and our proportionate share of the income or loss
    is recognized on a one-quarter lag. During 2009, we recorded $31
    million of equity method losses ($87 million in 2008) within
    gains (losses) on equity method investments, net. In 2008, we
    also recorded a $250 million impairment charge on our investment
    in Numonyx within gains (losses) on equity method investments,
    net. For further discussion, see  Note 5: Fair Value. 

As of December 26, 2009, our
    investment balance in Numonyx was $453 million and is classified
    within other long-term assets ($484 million as of December 27,
    2008). The carrying amount of our investment in Numonyx as of
    December 26, 2009 was $274 million below our share of the book
    value of the net assets of Numonyx. Most of this difference has
    been assigned to specific Numonyx long-lived assets, and our
    proportionate share of Numonyx income or loss will be adjusted
    to recognize this difference over the estimated remaining useful
    lives of those long-lived assets.

Additional terms of our investment
    in Numonyx include:

We are leasing a facility in
    Israel to Numonyx for a period of up to 24 years under a fully
    paid, up-front operating lease. Upon completion of the
    divestiture, we recorded $82 million of deferred income
    representing the value of the prepaid operating lease. The
    deferred income will generally offset the related depreciation
    over the lease term.

We entered into supply and service
    agreements that involve the manufacture and the assembly and
    test of NOR flash memory products for Numonyx through 2008. The
    fair value of these agreements was $110 million and was recorded
    in other accrued liabilities upon completion of the transaction.
    This amount was recognized during 2008, primarily as a reduction
    of cost of sales. Subsequently, we agreed with Numonyx to
    continue certain supply and service agreements, and these
    agreements ended at the end of 2009.

We entered into a transition
    services agreement that involved providing certain services,
    such as information technology, supply chain, and finance
    support, to Numonyx. The reimbursement from Numonyx for these
    services offset the related cost of sales and operating
    expenses. Most of the services provided under the agreement
    ended during 2009.

Numonyx entered into an unsecured,
    four-year senior credit facility of up to $550 million,
    comprising a $450 million term loan and a $100 million revolving
    loan. Intel and STMicroelectronics N.V. have each provided the
    lenders with a guarantee of 50% of the payment obligations of
    Numonyx under the senior credit facility. A demand on our
    guarantee can be triggered if Numonyx is unable to meet its
    obligations under the credit facility. Acceleration of the
    obligations of Numonyx under the credit facility could be
    triggered by a monetary default of Numonyx or, in certain
    circumstances, by events affecting the creditworthiness of
    STMicroelectronics or Intel. The maximum amount of future
    undiscounted payments that we could be required to make under
    the guarantee is $275 million plus accrued interest, expenses of
    the lenders, and penalties. As of December 26, 2009, the
    carrying amount of the liability associated with the guarantee
    was $79 million, unchanged from the amount initially recorded in
    2008, and is included in other accrued liabilities.

Our note receivable is
    subordinated to the senior credit facility and the preferential
    payout of Francisco Partners L.P., and will be deemed
    extinguished in liquidation events that generate proceeds
    insufficient to repay the senior credit facility and Francisco
    Partners  preferential payout.

77

Table of Contents   

INTEL
    CORPORATION 
    NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
    (Continued)  

Subsequent to the end of 2009, in February 2010, we signed a
    definitive agreement with Micron and Numonyx under which Micron
    agreed to acquire Numonyx in an all-stock transaction. Under the
    terms of the agreement, Intel, STMicroelectronics, and Francisco
    Partners would sell their financial interest in Numonyx for
    140 million shares of Micron common stock plus, under
    certain circumstances, up to an additional 10 million
    shares of Micron common stock.

Clearwire
    LLC  

In 2008, we invested $1.0 billion
    in Clearwire LLC, a wholly owned subsidiary of Clearwire
    Corporation. In the fourth quarter of 2009, we invested an
    additional $50 million. Our investment in Clearwire LLC is
    accounted for under the equity method of accounting, and our
    proportionate share of the income or loss is recognized on a
    one-quarter lag. During 2009, we recorded $27 million of equity
    method losses, which was net of a gain of $37 million as a
    result of a dilution of our ownership interest from the
    additional investment. Due to the
     one-quarter 
    lag, we did not record equity method adjustments related to
    Clearwire LLC during 2008. During 2008, we recorded a $762
    million impairment charge on our investment in Clearwire LLC to
    write down our investment to its fair value. The impairment
    charge was included in gains (losses) on equity method
    investments, net. For further discussion, see  Note 5: Fair
    Value. 

As of December 26, 2009, our
    investment balance in Clearwire LLC was $261 million and is
    classified within other long-term assets ($238 million as of
    December 27, 2008). As of December 26, 2009, the carrying value
    of our investment in Clearwire LLC was $323 million below our
    share of the book value of the net assets of Clearwire
    Corporation, and a substantial majority of this difference has
    been assigned to Clearwire Corporation spectrum assets, a
    majority of which have an indefinite life.

Cost
    Method Investments   

The carrying value of our
    non-marketable cost method investments was $939 million as of
    December 26, 2009 and $1.0 billion as of December 27, 2008. In
    2009, we recognized impairment charges on non-marketable cost
    method investments of $179 million within gains (losses) on
    other equity investments ($135 million in 2008 and $90 million
    in 2007).

Note 12:
    Gains (Losses) on Equity Method Investments, Net  

Gains (losses) on equity method
    investments, net included:

Note 13:
    Gains (Losses) on Other Equity Investments, Net  

Gains (losses) on other equity
    investments, net included:

78

Table of Contents   

INTEL
    CORPORATION 
    NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
    (Continued)  

Note 14:
    Interest and Other, Net  

The components of interest and
    other, net were as follows:

Note 15:
    Acquisitions  

Consideration for acquisitions
    that qualify as business combinations includes the net cash paid
    and the fair value of any vested share-based awards assumed.
    During the third quarter of 2009, we completed two acquisitions
    qualifying as business combinations for total consideration of
    $885 million (net of $59 million cash acquired). Substantially
    all of this amount related to the acquisition of Wind River
    Systems, Inc., a vendor of software for embedded devices,
    completed by acquiring all issued and outstanding Wind River
    Systems common shares. The objective of the acquisition of Wind
    River Systems was to enable the introduction of products for the
    embedded and handheld market segments, resulting in benefits for
    our existing operations.

The combined consideration for
    acquisitions completed during 2009 was allocated as follows:

During 2008, we completed two
    acquisitions qualifying as business combinations in exchange for
    aggregate net cash consideration of $16 million, plus certain
    liabilities. We allocated all of this consideration to goodwill.
    During 2007, we completed one acquisition qualifying as a
    business combination in exchange for net cash consideration of
    $76 million, plus assumption of certain liabilities. We
    allocated a substantial majority of this consideration to
    goodwill. During 2008 and 2007, the acquired business and
    related goodwill were recorded within the  other operating
    segments  category for segment reporting purposes.

The completed acquisitions in
    2009, 2008, and 2007 were not significant to our consolidated
    results of operations.

Note 16:
    Divestitures  

During the first quarter of 2008,
    we completed the divestiture of a portion of the
    telecommunications-related assets of our optical platform
    division. Consideration for the divestiture was $85 million,
    including $75 million in cash and common shares of the acquiring
    company, with an estimated value of $10 million at the date of
    purchase. We entered into an agreement with the acquiring
    company to provide certain manufacturing and transition services
    for a limited time that has since been completed. During the
    first quarter of 2008, as a result of this divestiture, we
    recorded a net gain of $39 million within interest and other,
    net. During the second quarter of 2008, we completed the sale of
    the remaining portion of our optical platform division for
    common shares of the acquiring company with an estimated value
    of $27 million at the date of purchase. Overall, approximately
    100 employees of our optical products business became employees
    of the acquiring company.

79

Table of Contents   

INTEL
    CORPORATION 
    NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
    (Continued)  

During the second quarter of 2008,
    we completed the divestiture of our NOR flash memory business.
    We exchanged certain NOR flash memory assets and certain assets
    associated with our phase change memory initiatives with Numonyx
    for a note receivable with a contractual amount of $144 million
    and a 45.1% ownership interest in the form of common stock,
    together valued at $821 million. We retain certain rights to
    intellectual property included within the divestiture.
    Approximately 2,500 employees of our NOR flash memory business
    became employees of Numonyx. STMicroelectronics contributed
    certain assets to Numonyx for a note receivable with a
    contractual amount of $156 million and a 48.6% ownership
    interest in the form of common stock. Francisco Partners paid
    $150 million in cash in exchange for the remaining 6.3%
    ownership interest in the form of preferred stock and a note
    receivable with a contractual amount of $20 million. In
    addition, they received a payout right that is preferential
    relative to the investments of Intel and STMicroelectronics. We
    did not incur a gain or loss upon completion of the transaction
    in the second quarter of 2008, as we had recorded asset
    impairment charges in quarters prior to deal closure. For
    further discussion, see  Note 19: Restructuring and Asset
    Impairment Charges.  Subsequent to the divestiture, in the
    third quarter of 2008 we recorded a $250 million impairment
    charge on our investment in Numonyx within gains (losses) on
    equity method investments. In February 2010, we signed a
    definitive agreement with Micron and Numonyx under which Micron
    agreed to acquire Numonyx in an all-stock transaction. For
    further information, see  Note 11: Non-Marketable
    Equity Investments. 

Note 17:
    Goodwill  

At the end of 2009, we reorganized
    our business to better align our major product groups around the
    core competencies of Intel architecture and our manufacturing
    operations. See  Note 29: Operating Segment and Geographic
    Information  for further discussion. Due to this
    reorganization, goodwill was allocated from our prior operating
    segments to our new operating segments, as shown below under
     Transfers.  The allocation was based on the fair
    value of each business group within its original operating
    segment relative to the fair value of that operating segment.

Goodwill activity for the years
    ended December 26, 2009 and December 27, 2008 was as follows:

During 2009, prior to our
    reorganization, we completed two acquisitions, including the
    acquisition of Wind River Systems (see  Note 15:
    Acquisitions  for further discussion). Goodwill recognized
    from the Wind River Systems acquisition was assigned to our
    Digital Enterprise Group, our Mobility Group, our Digital Home
    Group, and our Wind River Software Group based on the relative
    expected fair value provided by the acquisition. The assignment
    of goodwill to our Digital Enterprise Group, our Mobility Group,
    and our Digital Home Group was based on the proportionate
    benefits expected to be generated for each group resulting from
    enhanced market presence for existing businesses.

During 2008, we completed two
    acquisitions that resulted in goodwill of $18 million.

80

Table of Contents   

INTEL
    CORPORATION 
    NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
    (Continued)  

After completing our annual
    impairment reviews during the fourth quarter of 2009, 2008, and
    2007, we concluded that goodwill was not impaired in any year.
    As of December 26, 2009, accumulated impairment losses in total
    were $713 million: $355 million associated with our PC Client
    Group, $279 million associated with our Data Center Group, and
    $79 million associated with other Intel architecture operating
    segments.

Note 18:
    Identified Intangible Assets  

We classify identified intangible
    assets within other long-term assets on the consolidated balance
    sheets. Identified intangible assets consisted of the following
    as of December 26, 2009:

During 2009, we acquired
    intellectual property assets for $99 million with a weighted
    average life of six years. During 2009, as a result of our
    acquisition of Wind River Systems, we recorded
    acquisition-related developed technology for $148 million with a
    weighted average life of four years, and additions to other
    intangible assets of $169 million with a weighted average life
    of seven years. The substantial majority of other intangible
    assets recorded were associated with customer relationships and
    the Wind River Systems trade name. The remaining amount of other
    intangible assets was related to acquired in-process research
    and development.

Identified intangible assets
    consisted of the following as of December 27, 2008:

During 2008, we acquired
    intellectual property assets for $68 million with a weighted
    average life of 10 years.

We recorded the amortization of
    identified intangible assets on the consolidated statements of
    operations as cost of sales, amortization of acquisition-related
    intangibles, or a reduction of revenue.

Amortization expenses for the
    three years ended December 26, 2009 were as follows:

Based on identified intangible
    assets recorded as of December 26, 2009, and assuming that the
    underlying assets will not be impaired in the future, we expect
    amortization expenses for each period to be as follows:

81

Table of Contents   

INTEL
    CORPORATION 
    NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
    (Continued)  

Note 19:
    Restructuring and Asset Impairment Charges  

The following table summarizes
    restructuring and asset impairment charges by plan for the three
    years ended December 26, 2009:

2009
    Restructuring Program   

In the first quarter of 2009,
    management approved plans to restructure some of our
    manufacturing and assembly and test operations. These plans
    included closing two assembly and test facilities in Malaysia,
    one facility in the Philippines, and one facility in China;
    stopping production at a 200mm wafer fabrication facility in
    Oregon; and ending production at our 200mm wafer fabrication
    facility in California. We do not expect significant future
    charges related to the 2009 plan. The following table summarizes
    charges for the 2009 restructuring plan during 2009:

(In Millions) 

2009 

Employee severance and benefit arrangements

$

208

Asset impairments

7

Total restructuring and asset impairment charges 

$ 

215 

The following table summarizes the
    restructuring and asset impairment activity for the 2009
    restructuring plan during 2009:

We recorded the additional
    accruals, net of adjustments, as restructuring and asset
    impairment charges. The remaining accrual as of December 26,
    2009 was related to severance benefits that are recorded within
    accrued compensation and benefits.

The charges above include $208
    million related to employee severance and benefit arrangements
    for 6,500 employees.

2008
    NAND Plan   

In the fourth quarter of 2008,
    management approved a plan with Micron to discontinue the supply
    of NAND flash memory from the 200mm facility within the IMFT
    manufacturing network. The agreement resulted in a $215 million
    restructuring charge, primarily related to the IMFT 200mm supply
    agreement. The restructuring charge resulted in a reduction of
    our investment in IMFT/IMFS of $184 million, a cash payment to
    Micron of $24 million, and other cash payments of $7 million.
    The 2008 NAND plan was completed at the end of 2008.

82

Table of Contents   

INTEL
    CORPORATION 
    NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
    (Continued)  

2006
    Efficiency Program   

In the third quarter of 2006,
    management approved several actions as part of a restructuring
    plan designed to improve operational efficiency and financial
    results. The following table summarizes charges for the 2006
    efficiency program for the three years ended December 26, 2009:

During 2006, as part of our
    assessment of our worldwide manufacturing capacity operations,
    we placed for sale our fabrication facility in Colorado Springs,
    Colorado. As a result of placing the facility for sale, in 2006
    we recorded a $214 million impairment charge to write down to
    fair value the land, building, and equipment. We incurred $54
    million in additional asset impairment charges as a result of
    market conditions related to the Colorado Springs facility
    during 2007 and additional charges in 2008. We sold the Colorado
    Springs facility in 2009.

In addition, during 2007 we
    recorded land and building write-downs related to certain
    facilities in Santa Clara, California. We also incurred $85
    million in asset impairment charges related to assets that we
    sold in conjunction with the divestiture of our NOR flash memory
    business in 2007 and an additional $275 million in 2008. We
    determined the impairment charges based on the fair value, less
    selling costs, that we expected to receive upon completion of
    the divestiture in 2007 and determined the impairment charges
    based on the revised fair value of the equity and note
    receivable that we received upon completion of the divestiture,
    less selling costs, in 2008. For further information on this
    divestiture, see  Note 16: Divestitures. 

The following table summarizes the
    restructuring and asset impairment activity for the 2006
    efficiency program during 2008 and 2009:

We recorded the additional
    accruals, net of adjustments, as restructuring and asset
    impairment charges. The 2006 efficiency plan is complete.

From the third quarter of 2006
    through 2009, we incurred a total of $1.6 billion in
    restructuring and asset impairment charges related to this
    program. These charges included a total of $686 million related
    to employee severance and benefit arrangements for 11,300
    employees, and $896 million in asset impairment charges.

83

Table of Contents   

INTEL
    CORPORATION 
    NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
    (Continued)  

Note 20:
    Borrowings  

Short-Term
    Debt   

Short-term debt included the
    current portion of long-term debt of $157 million and drafts
    payable of $15 million as of December 26, 2009 (drafts payable
    of $100 million and the current portion of long-term debt of $2
    million as of December 27, 2008). We have an ongoing
    authorization from our Board of Directors to borrow up to $3.0
    billion, including through the issuance of commercial paper.
    Maximum borrowings under our commercial paper program during
    2009 were $610 million. We did not have outstanding commercial
    paper as of December 26, 2009 and December 27, 2008. Maximum
    borrowings under our commercial paper program during 2008 were
    $1.3 billion. Our commercial paper was rated
     A-1+  by
    Standard   Poor s and
     P-1  by
    Moody s as of December 26, 2009.

Long-Term
    Debt   

Our long-term debt as of December
    26, 2009 and December 27, 2008 was as follows:

1   

As adjusted due to changes to the accounting for convertible
    debt instruments. See  Note 3: Accounting Changes.   

Convertible
    Debentures  

In 2005, we issued $1.6 billion of
    junior subordinated convertible debentures (the 2005 debentures)
    due in 2035. In 2009, we issued $2.0 billion of junior
    subordinated convertible debentures (the 2009 debentures) due in
    2039. Both the 2005 and 2009 debentures pay a fixed rate of
    interest semiannually. We capitalized all interest associated
    with these debentures during the periods presented.

84

Table of Contents   

INTEL
    CORPORATION 
    NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
    (Continued)  

Both the 2005 and 2009 debentures
    are convertible, subject to certain conditions, into shares of
    our common stock. Holders can surrender the 2005 debentures for
    conversion at any time. Holders can surrender the 2009
    debentures for conversion if the closing price of Intel common
    stock has been at least 130% of the conversion price then in
    effect for at least 20 trading days during the 30
     trading-day 
    period ending on the last trading day of the preceding fiscal
    quarter. We can settle any conversion or repurchase of the 2005
    debentures in cash or stock at our option. However, we will
    settle any conversion or repurchase of the 2009 debentures in
    cash up to the face value, and any amount in excess of face
    value will be settled in cash or stock at our option. On or
    after December 15, 2012, we can redeem, for cash, all or part of
    the 2005 debentures for the principal amount, plus any accrued
    and unpaid interest, if the closing price of Intel common stock
    has been at least 130% of the conversion price then in effect
    for at least 20 trading days during any 30 consecutive
     trading-day 
    period prior to the date on which we provide notice of
    redemption. On or after August 5, 2019, we can redeem, for cash,
    all or part of the 2009 debentures for the principal amount,
    plus any accrued and unpaid interest, if the closing price of
    Intel common stock has been at least 150% of the conversion
    price then in effect for at least 20 trading days during any 30
    consecutive
     trading-day 
    period prior to the date on which we provide notice of
    redemption. If certain events occur in the future, the
    indentures governing the 2005 and 2009 debentures provide that
    each holder of the debentures can, for a pre-defined period of
    time, require us to repurchase the holder s debentures for
    the principal amount plus any accrued and unpaid interest. Both
    the 2005 and 2009 debentures are subordinated in right of
    payment to our existing and future senior debt and to the other
    liabilities of our subsidiaries. We have concluded that both the
    2005 and 2009 debentures are not conventional convertible debt
    instruments and that the embedded stock conversion options
    qualify as derivatives. In addition, we have concluded that the
    embedded conversion options would be classified in
    stockholders  equity if they were freestanding derivative
    instruments. As such, the embedded conversion options are not
    accounted for separately as derivatives.

1    

The remaining amortization periods for the 2005 and 2009
    debentures are approximately 26 and 30 years, respectively, as
    of December 26, 2009.  

2   

The conversion rate adjusts for certain events outlined in
    the indentures governing the 2005 and 2009 debentures, such as
    quarterly dividend distributions in excess of $0.10 and $0.14
    per share, for the 2005 and 2009 debentures, respectively, but
    does not adjust for accrued interest. In addition, the
    conversion rate will increase for a holder of either the 2005 or
    2009 debentures who elects to convert the debentures in
    connection with certain share exchanges, mergers, or
    consolidations involving Intel, as described in the indentures
    governing the 2005 and 2009 debentures.  

Arizona
    Bonds  

In 2005, we guaranteed repayment
    of principal and interest on bonds issued by the Industrial
    Development Authority of the City of Chandler, Arizona, which
    constitutes an unsecured general obligation for Intel. The
    principal amount, excluding the premium, of the bonds issued in
    2005 (2005 Arizona bonds) was $157 million. The bonds are due in
    2035 and bear interest at a fixed rate of 4.375% until 2010. The
    2005 Arizona bonds are subject to mandatory tender on November
    30, 2010, at which time we can re-market the bonds as either
     fixed-rate 
    bonds for a specified period or as variable-rate bonds until
    their final maturity on December 1, 2035. As such, the 2005
    Arizona bonds were classified as short-term debt as of December
    26, 2009.

85

Table of Contents   

INTEL
    CORPORATION 
    NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
    (Continued)  

In 2007, we guaranteed repayment
    of principal and interest on bonds issued by the Industrial
    Development Authority of the City of Chandler, Arizona, which
    constitute an unsecured general obligation for Intel. The
    aggregate principal amount of the bonds issued in December 2007
    (2007 Arizona bonds) is $125 million due in 2037, and the bonds
    bear interest at a fixed rate of 5.3%. The 2007 Arizona bonds
    are subject to mandatory tender, at our option, on any interest
    payment date beginning on or after December 1, 2012 until their
    final maturity on December 1, 2037. Upon such tender, we can
    re-market the bonds as either fixed-rate bonds for a specified
    period or as variable-rate bonds until their final maturity. We
    also entered into a total return swap agreement that effectively
    converts the fixed-rate obligation on the bonds to a floating
     U.S.-dollar 
    LIBOR-based rate. At the beginning of the first quarter of 2008,
    we elected to account for the 2007 Arizona bonds at fair value.
    For further discussion, see  Note 5: Fair Value. 

As of December 26, 2009, our
    aggregate debt maturities based on outstanding principal were as
    follows (in millions):

Substantially all of the
    difference between the total aggregate debt maturities above and
    the total carrying amount of our debt is due to the equity
    component of our convertible debentures.

Note 21:
    Retirement Benefit Plans  

Profit
    Sharing Plans   

We provide
     tax-qualified 
    profit sharing retirement plans for the benefit of eligible
    employees, former employees, and retirees in the U.S. and
    certain other countries. The plans, which are funded by annual
    discretionary contributions by Intel, are designed to provide
    employees with an accumulation of funds for retirement on a
     tax-deferred 
    basis. Our Chief Executive Officer (CEO) determines the amounts
    to be contributed to the U.S. Profit Sharing Plan under
    delegation of authority from our Board of Directors, pursuant to
    the terms of the Profit Sharing Plan. As of December 26, 2009,
    51% of our U.S. Profit Sharing Fund was invested in equities,
    and 49% was invested in
     fixed-income 
    instruments. Most assets are managed by external investment
    managers.

For the benefit of eligible U.S.
    employees, we also provide a
     non-tax-qualified 
    supplemental deferred compensation plan for certain highly
    compensated employees. This plan is designed to permit certain
    discretionary employer contributions and to permit employee
    deferral of a portion of compensation in excess of certain tax
    limits. This plan is unfunded.

We expensed $260 million for the
    qualified and
     non-qualified 
    U.S. profit sharing retirement plans in 2009 ($289 million in
    2008 and $302 million in 2007). In the first quarter of 2010, we
    funded $265 million for the 2009 contribution to the qualified
    U.S. Profit Sharing Plan.

Pension
    and Postretirement Benefit Plans   

U.S. Pension Benefits.
       We provide a
     tax-qualified 
    defined-benefit pension plan for the benefit of eligible
    employees, former employees, and retirees in the U.S. The plan
    provides for a minimum pension benefit that is determined by a
    participant s years of service and final average
    compensation (taking into account the participant s social
    security wage base), reduced by the participant s balance
    in the U.S. Profit Sharing Plan. If we do not continue to
    contribute to, or significantly reduce contributions to, the
    U.S. Profit Sharing Plan, the projected benefit obligation of
    the U.S.
     defined-benefit 
    plan could increase significantly.

86

Table of Contents   

INTEL
    CORPORATION 
    NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
    (Continued)  

Non-U.S. 
    Pension Benefits.    We
    also provide
     defined-benefit 
    pension plans in certain other countries. Consistent with the
    requirements of local law, we deposit funds for certain plans
    with insurance companies, with
     third-party 
    trustees, or into
     government-managed 
    accounts,
     and/or 
    accrue for the unfunded portion of the obligation. The
    assumptions used in calculating the obligation for the
     non-U.S. 
    plans depend on the local economic environment.

Postretirement Medical
    Benefits.    Upon
    retirement, eligible U.S. employees are credited with a defined
    dollar amount based on years of service. These credits can be
    used to pay all or a portion of the cost to purchase coverage in
    an Intel-sponsored medical plan. If the available credits are
    not sufficient to pay the entire cost of the coverage, the
    remaining cost is the responsibility of the retiree.

Funding
    Policy.    Our
    practice is to fund the various pension plans in amounts
    sufficient to meet the minimum requirements of U.S. federal laws
    and regulations or applicable local laws and regulations.
    Additional funding may be provided as deemed appropriate.
    Depending on the design of the plan, local customs, and market
    circumstances, the liabilities of a plan may exceed qualified
    plan assets.

Benefit
    Obligation and Plan Assets   

The changes in the benefit
    obligations and plan assets for the plans described above were
    as follows:

1   

2008 curtailments and settlements were primarily related to
    the divestiture of our NOR flash memory business for employees
    at our Israel and Philippines facilities.  

87

Table of Contents   

INTEL
    CORPORATION 
    NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
    (Continued)  

The following table summarizes the
    amounts recognized on the consolidated balance sheets as of
    December 26, 2009 and December 27, 2008:

The following table summarizes the
    amounts recorded to accumulated other comprehensive income
    (loss) before taxes, as of December 26, 2009 and December 27,
    2008:

As of December 26, 2009, the
    accumulated benefit obligation was $270 million for the U.S.
    defined-benefit pension plan ($251 million as of December 27,
    2008) and $511 million for the
     non-U.S. 
    defined-benefit pension plans ($556 million as of December 27,
    2008). Included in the aggregate data in the following tables
    are the amounts applicable to our pension plans, with
    accumulated benefit obligations in excess of plan assets, as
    well as plans with projected benefit obligations in excess of
    plan assets. Amounts related to such plans were as follows:

Assumptions   

Weighted average actuarial
    assumptions used to determine benefit obligations for the plans
    were as follows:

88

Table of Contents   

INTEL
    CORPORATION 
    NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
    (Continued)  

Weighted average actuarial
    assumptions used to determine costs for the plans were as
    follows:

For the U.S. plans, we developed
    the discount rate by calculating the benefit payment streams by
    year to determine when benefit payments will be due. We then
    matched the benefit payment streams by year to the AA corporate
    bond rates to match the timing and amount of the expected
    benefit payments and discounted back to the measurement date to
    determine the appropriate discount rate. For the
     non-U.S. 
    plans, we used two approaches to develop the discount rate. In
    certain countries, we used a model consisting of a theoretical
    bond portfolio for which the timing and amount of cash flows
    approximated the estimated benefit payments of our pension
    plans. In other countries, we analyzed current market long-term
    bond rates and matched the bond maturity with the average
    duration of the pension liabilities. The expected long-term rate
    of return on plan assets assumptions take into consideration
    both duration and risk of the investment portfolios, and are
    developed through consensus and building-block methodologies.
    The consensus methodology includes unadjusted estimates by the
    fund manager on future market expectations by broad asset
    classes and geography. The building-block approach determines
    the rates of return implied by historical risk premiums across
    asset classes. In addition, we analyzed rates of return relevant
    to the country where each plan is in effect and the investments
    applicable to the plan, expectations of future returns, local
    actuarial projections, and the projected long-term rates of
    return from external investment managers. The expected long-term
    rate of return on plan assets shown for the
     non-U.S. 
    plan assets is weighted to reflect each country s relative
    portion of the
     non-U.S. 
    plan assets.

Net
    Periodic Benefit Cost   

The net periodic benefit cost for
    the plans included the following components:

1   

2008 curtailments and settlements were primarily related to
    the divestiture of our NOR flash memory business for employees
    at our Israel and Philippines facilities.  

89

Table of Contents   

INTEL
    CORPORATION 
    NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
    (Continued)  

Fair
    Value of Plan Assets   

Fair value is the price that would
    be received from selling an asset or paid to transfer a
    liability in an orderly transaction between market participants
    at the measurement date. The three levels of inputs that may be
    used to measure fair value of plan assets are as follows:

Level
    1.    Quoted prices in
    active markets for identical assets.

Level
    2.    Observable inputs
    other than Level 1 prices, such as quoted prices for similar
    assets, quoted prices in markets with insufficient volume or
    infrequent transactions (less active markets), or model-derived
    valuations in which all significant inputs are observable or can
    be derived principally from or corroborated with observable
    market data for substantially the full term of the assets. Level
    2 inputs also include non-binding market consensus prices that
    can be corroborated with observable market data.

Level
    3.    Unobservable inputs
    to the valuation methodology that are significant to the
    measurement of the fair value of assets.

U.S.
    Pension Plan Assets   

In general, the investment
    strategy for U.S. pension plan assets is to maximize
    risk-adjusted returns, taking into consideration the investment
    horizon and expected volatility, to ensure that there are
    sufficient assets available to pay pension benefits as they come
    due. When deemed appropriate, we may invest a portion of the
    funds in futures contracts for the purpose of acting as a
    temporary substitute for an investment in a particular equity
    security. The fund does not engage in speculative futures
    transactions. The allocation to each asset class will fluctuate
    with market conditions, such as volatility and liquidity
    concerns, and will typically be rebalanced when outside the
    target ranges, which are 80% to 90% for fixed-income debt
    instrument investments and 10% to 20% for domestic and
    international equity fund investments. The fixed-income debt
    instrument portion is invested largely in common collective
    trust funds that invest in one- to three-year U.S. government
    bonds and investment-grade credit, and to a lesser extent, in
     non-U.S., 
    asset-backed, and non-investment-grade debt. The expected
     long-term 
    rate of return for the U.S. pension plan assets is 4.5%.

U.S. pension plan assets measured
    at fair value on a recurring basis consisted of the following
    investment categories as of December 26, 2009:

1   

This category represents two common collective trust funds
    that seek to replicate the performance of the Barclays Capital
    1   3 Year Treasury Bond Index and Barclays Capital
    1   3 Year Agency Bond Index over the long term.  

2   

The fund s target allocation is approximately 50% of
    assets in government and high-quality corporate bonds and
     asset-backed 
    securities to mitigate risks related to deflation, 10% in global
    inflation-indexed bonds to provide protection from inflation,
    and another 10% in international government and corporate bonds.
    The residual 30% of the fund is allocated to other fixed-income
    investments, which may include exposures to the aforementioned
    sectors as well as emerging markets, high-yield investments, and
    mortgage-backed securities.  

90

Table of Contents   

INTEL
    CORPORATION 
    NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
    (Continued)  

Non-U.S. 
    Plan Assets   

The investments of the
     non-U.S. 
    plans are managed by insurance companies, third-party trustees,
    or pension funds, consistent with regulations or market practice
    of the country where the assets are invested. The investment
    manager makes investment decisions within the guidelines set by
    us or local regulations. The investment manager evaluates
    performance by comparing the actual rate of return to the return
    on other similar assets. Investments managed by qualified
    insurance companies or pension funds under standard contracts
    follow local regulations, and we are not actively involved in
    their investment strategies. For the assets that we have
    discretion to set investment guidelines, the assets are invested
    in developed country equities and fixed-income debt instruments,
    either through index funds or direct investment. In general, the
    investment strategy is designed to accumulate a diversified
    portfolio among markets, asset classes, or individual securities
    in order to reduce market risk and assure that the pension
    assets are available to pay benefits as they come due. The
    average expected long-term rate of return for the
     non-U.S. 
    plan assets is 6.1%.

Non-U.S. 
    plan assets measured at fair value on a recurring basis
    consisted of the following investment categories as of December
    26, 2009:

1   

The majority of the assets in this category are invested in a
    diversified mix of equities of developed countries, including
    the U.S., and emerging markets throughout the world.  

2   

Investment assets managed by qualified insurance companies
    are invested as part of the insurance companies  general
    fund. We do not have control over the target allocation or
    visibility of the investment strategies of these investments.
    Insurance contracts and investments held by insurance companies
    made up 35% of total
     non-U.S. 
    plan assets as of December 26, 2009 (36% as of December 27,
    2008).  

The table below presents a
    reconciliation for the
     non-U.S. 
    plan assets measured at fair value on a recurring basis using
    significant unobservable inputs (Level 3) for 2009:

The target allocation of the
     non-U.S. 
    plan assets that we have control over is 65% equity securities
    and 35% fixed-income instruments.

91

Table of Contents   

INTEL
    CORPORATION 
    NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
    (Continued)  

Concentration
    of Risk   

We manage a variety of risks,
    including market, credit, and liquidity risks, across our plan
    assets through our investment managers. We define a
    concentration of risk as an undiversified exposure to one of the
    above-mentioned risks that increases the exposure of the loss of
    plan assets unnecessarily. We monitor exposure to such risks in
    both the U.S. and
     non-U.S. 
    plans by monitoring the magnitude of the risk in each plan and
    diversifying our exposure to such risks across a variety of
    instruments, markets, and counterparties. As of December 26,
    2009, we did not have concentrations of risk in any single
    entity, manager, counterparty, sector, industry, or country.

Funding
    Expectations   

Under applicable law for the U.S.
    Pension Plan, we are not required to make any contributions
    during 2010. Our expected funding for the
     non-U.S. 
    plans during 2010 is approximately $55 million. We expect
    employer contributions to the postretirement medical benefits
    plan to be approximately $5 million during 2010.

Estimated
    Future Benefit Payments   

We expect the benefits to be paid
    through 2019 from the U.S. and
     non-U.S. 
    pension plans and other postretirement benefit plans to be on
    average approximately $75 million annually.

Note 22:
    Commitments  

A portion of our capital equipment
    and certain facilities are under operating leases that expire at
    various dates through 2028. Additionally, portions of our land
    are under leases that expire at various dates through 2062.
    Rental expense was $120 million in 2009 ($141 million in 2008
    and $154 million in 2007).

Minimum rental commitments under
    all non-cancelable leases with an initial term in excess of one
    year were as follows as of December 26, 2009 (in millions):

Commitments for construction or
    purchase of property, plant and equipment totaled $1.8 billion
    as of December 26, 2009 ($2.9 billion as of December 27, 2008),
    substantially all of which will be due within the next year.
    Other purchase obligations and commitments totaled approximately
    $900 million as of December 26, 2009 ($1.2 billion as of
    December 27, 2008). Other purchase obligations and commitments
    include payments due under various types of licenses, agreements
    to purchase raw materials or other goods, and payments due under
     non-contingent 
    funding obligations. Funding obligations include, for example,
    agreements to fund various projects with other companies. In
    addition, we have various contractual commitments with Micron
    and IMFT/IMFS. For further information on these contractual
    commitments, see  Note 11: Non-Marketable Equity
    Investments. 

92

Table of Contents   

INTEL
    CORPORATION 
    NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
    (Continued)  

Note 23:
    Employee Equity Incentive Plans  

Our equity incentive plans are
    broad-based, long-term retention programs intended to attract
    and retain talented employees and align stockholder and employee
    interests.

In May 2009, stockholders approved
    an extension of the 2006 Equity Incentive Plan (the 2006 Plan).
    Stockholders approved 134 million additional shares for
    issuance, increasing the total shares of common stock available
    for issuance as equity awards to employees and
     non-employee 
    directors to 428 million shares. The approval also extended the
    expiration date of the 2006 Plan to June 2012. The maximum
    number of shares to be awarded as non-vested shares (restricted
    stock) or non-vested share units (restricted stock units)
    increased to 253 million shares. As of December 26, 2009, 226
    million shares remained available for future grant under the
    2006 Plan. We may assume the equity incentive plans and the
    outstanding equity awards of certain acquired companies. Once
    they are assumed, we do not grant additional shares under these
    plans.

Also in May 2009, stockholders
    approved an employee stock option exchange program (Option
    Exchange) to give employees (not listed officers) the
    opportunity to exchange eligible stock options for a lesser
    number of new stock options that have approximately the same
    fair value as the options surrendered, as of the date of the
    exchange. The Option Exchange commenced on September 28, 2009
    and expired on October 30, 2009. Eligible options included stock
    options granted under any Intel stock option or equity incentive
    plan between October 1, 2000 and September 28, 2008 that had an
    exercise price above $20.83, which was the 52-week closing-price
    high as of October 30, 2009. A total of 217 million eligible
    stock options were tendered and cancelled in exchange for 83
    million new stock options granted. The new stock options have an
    exercise price of $19.04, which is equal to the market price of
    Intel common stock (defined as the average of the high and low
    trading prices) on October 30, 2009. The new stock options were
    issued under the 2006 Plan and are subject to its terms and
    conditions. The new stock options vest in equal annual
    increments over a four-year period from the date of grant and
    will expire seven years from the grant date. Using the
    Black-Scholes option pricing model, we determined that the fair
    value of the surrendered stock options on a
     grant-by-grant 
    basis was approximately equal, as of the date of the exchange,
    to the fair value of the eligible stock options exchanged,
    resulting in insignificant incremental share-based compensation.

In 2009, we began issuing
    restricted stock units with both a market condition and a
    service condition (market-based restricted stock units), which
    were referred to in our 2009 Proxy Statement as outperformance
    stock units, to a small group of senior officers and
    non-employee directors. The number of shares of Intel common
    stock to be received at vesting will range from 33% to 200% of
    the target amount, based on total stockholder return (TSR) on
    Intel common stock measured against the benchmark TSR of a peer
    group over a three-year period. TSR is a measure of stock price
    appreciation plus any dividends paid in this performance period.
    As of December 26, 2009, there were 2 million market-based
    restricted stock units outstanding. These market-based
    restricted stock units accrue dividend equivalents and vest
    three years and one month from the grant date.

In connection with our completed
    acquisition of Wind River Systems, we assumed their equity
    incentive plans and issued replacement awards in the third
    quarter of 2009. The stock options and restricted stock units
    issued generally retain the terms and conditions of the
    respective plans under which they were originally granted. We
    will not grant additional shares under these plans.

Equity awards granted to employees
    in 2009 under our equity incentive plans generally vest over 4
    years from the date of grant, and options expire 7 years from
    the date of grant with the exception of market-based restricted
    stock units and replacement awards related to acquisitions.
    Equity awards granted to key officers, senior-level employees,
    and key employees in 2009 may have delayed vesting beginning 3
    to 5 years from the date of grant, and options expire 7 to 10
    years from the date of grant.

The 2006 Stock Purchase Plan
    allows eligible employees to purchase shares of our common stock
    at 85% of the value of our common stock on specific dates. Under
    the 2006 Stock Purchase Plan, we made 240 million shares of
    common stock available for issuance through August 2011. As of
    December 26, 2009, 157 million shares were available for
    issuance under the 2006 Stock Purchase Plan.

93

Table of Contents   

INTEL
    CORPORATION 
    NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
    (Continued)  

Share-Based
    Compensation   

Share-based compensation
    recognized in 2009 was $889 million ($851 million in 2008 and
    $952 million in 2007).

We adjust share-based compensation
    on a quarterly basis for changes to our estimate of expected
    equity award forfeitures based on our review of recent
    forfeiture activity and expected future employee turnover. We
    recognize the effect of adjusting the forfeiture rate for all
    expense amortization after January 1, 2006 in the period that we
    change the forfeiture estimate. The effect of forfeiture
    adjustments in 2007, 2008, and 2009 was not significant.

The total share-based compensation
    cost capitalized as part of inventory as of December 26, 2009
    was $33 million ($46 million as of December 27, 2008 and $41
    million as of December 29, 2007). During 2009, the tax benefit
    that we realized for the tax deduction from option exercises and
    other awards totaled $119 million ($147 million in 2008 and $265
    million in 2007).

We estimate the fair value of
    restricted stock unit awards with time-based vesting using the
    value of our common stock on the date of grant, reduced by the
    present value of dividends expected to be paid on our common
    stock prior to vesting. We estimate the fair value of
     market-based 
    restricted stock units using a Monte Carlo simulation model on
    the date of grant. We based the weighted average estimated
    values of restricted stock unit grants, as well as the weighted
    average assumptions that we used in calculating the fair value,
    on estimates at the date of grant, as follows:

We use the Black-Scholes option
    pricing model to estimate the fair value of options granted
    under our equity incentive plans and rights to acquire common
    stock granted under our stock purchase plan. We based the
    weighted average estimated values of employee stock option
    grants (excluding stock option grants in connection with the
    Option Exchange) and rights granted under the stock purchase
    plan, as well as the weighted average assumptions used in
    calculating these values, on estimates at the date of grant, as
    follows:

We base the expected volatility on
    implied volatility, because we have determined that implied
    volatility is more reflective of market conditions and a better
    indicator of expected volatility than historical volatility. We
    use the simplified method of calculating expected life, due to
    significant differences in the vesting terms and contractual
    life of current option grants compared to our historical grants.

94

Table of Contents   

INTEL
    CORPORATION 
    NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
    (Continued)  

Restricted
    Stock Unit Awards   

Information with respect to
    outstanding restricted stock unit activity is as follows:

1   

Represents the value of Intel common stock on the date that
    the restricted stock units vest. On the grant date, the fair
    value for these vested awards was $407 million in 2009 ($239
    million in 2008 and $111 million in 2007).  

2   

The number of restricted stock units vested includes shares
    that we withheld on behalf of employees to satisfy the statutory
    tax withholding requirements.  

3   

Restricted stock units that are expected to vest are net of
    estimated future forfeitures.  

As of December 26, 2009, there was
    $1.2 billion in unrecognized compensation costs related to
    restricted stock units granted under our equity incentive plans.
    We expect to recognize those costs over a weighted average
    period of 1.4 years.

Stock
    Option Awards   

Options outstanding that have
    vested and are expected to vest as of December 26, 2009 are as
    follows:

1   

Amounts represent the difference between the exercise price
    and $20.33, the closing price of Intel common stock on December
    24, 2009, as reported on The NASDAQ Global Select Market*, for
    all
     in-the-money 
    options outstanding.  

2   

Options outstanding that are expected to vest are net of
    estimated future option forfeitures.  

Options with a fair value of $288
    million completed vesting during 2009 ($459 million during 2008
    and $1.4 billion during 2007). As of December 26, 2009, there
    was $282 million in unrecognized compensation costs related to
    stock options granted under our equity incentive plans. We
    expect to recognize those costs over a weighted average period
    of 1.3 years.

95

Table of Contents   

INTEL
    CORPORATION 
    NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
    (Continued)  

Additional information with
    respect to stock option activity is as follows:

1   

Amounts represent the difference between the exercise price
    and the value of Intel common stock at the time of exercise.  

2   

Includes new stock options granted in connection with the
    Option Exchange.  

The following table summarizes
    information about options outstanding as of December 26, 2009:

These options will expire if they
    are not exercised by specific dates through January 2019. Option
    exercise prices for options exercised during the three-year
    period ended December 26, 2009 ranged from $0.05 to $27.27.

96

Table of Contents   

INTEL
    CORPORATION 
    NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
    (Continued)  

Stock
    Purchase Plan   

Approximately 80% of our employees
    were participating in our stock purchase plan as of December 26,
    2009. Employees purchased 30.9 million shares in 2009 for $344
    million under the 2006 Stock Purchase Plan (25.9 million shares
    for $453 million in 2008 and 26.1 million shares for $428
    million in 2007). As of December 26, 2009, there was $9 million
    in unrecognized compensation costs related to rights to acquire
    common stock under our stock purchase plan. We expect to
    recognize those costs over a weighted average period of one
    month.

Note 24:
    Common Stock Repurchases  

Common
    Stock Repurchase Program   

We have an ongoing authorization,
    amended in November 2005, from our Board of Directors to
    repurchase up to $25 billion in shares of our common stock in
    open market or negotiated transactions. As of December 26, 2009,
    $5.7 billion remained available for repurchase under the
    existing repurchase authorization. During 2009, we utilized the
    majority of the proceeds from the issuance of the 2009
    debentures to repurchase 88.2 million shares of common stock at
    a cost of $1.7 billion (for further information on the issuance
    of the 2009 debentures, see  Note 20:
    Borrowings ). We repurchased 324 million shares at a cost
    of $7.1 billion during 2008 and 111 million shares at a cost of
    $2.75 billion during 2007. We have repurchased and retired 3.4
    billion shares at a cost of $69 billion since the program began
    in 1990. Our repurchases in 2009 and a portion of our purchases
    in 2008 and 2007 were executed in privately negotiated
    transactions.

Restricted
    Stock Unit Withholdings   

We issue restricted stock units as
    part of our equity incentive plans. For the majority of
    restricted stock units granted, the number of shares issued on
    the date the restricted stock units vest is net of the minimum
    statutory withholding requirements that we pay in cash to the
    appropriate taxing authorities on behalf of our employees.
    During 2009, we withheld 5.8 million shares (3.5 million shares
    during 2008 and 1.7 million shares during 2007) to satisfy $92
    million ($78 million during 2008 and $38 million during 2007) of
    employees  tax obligations. Although shares withheld are
    not issued, they are treated as common stock repurchases in our
    consolidated financial statements, as they reduce the number of
    shares that would have been issued upon vesting.

Note 25:
    Earnings Per Share  

We computed our basic and diluted
    earnings per common share as follows:

1   

Net income available to participating securities was
    insignificant in 2009.  

97

Table of Contents   

INTEL
    CORPORATION 
    NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
    (Continued)  

We computed our basic earnings per
    common share using net income available to common stockholders
    and the weighted average number of common shares outstanding
    during the period. We computed diluted earnings per common share
    using net income available to common stockholders and the
    weighted average number of common shares outstanding plus
    potentially dilutive common shares outstanding during the
    period. Potentially dilutive common shares from employee
    incentive plans are determined by applying the treasury stock
    method to the assumed exercise of outstanding stock options, the
    assumed vesting of outstanding restricted stock units, and the
    assumed issuance of common stock under the stock purchase plan.
    Potentially dilutive common shares are determined by applying
    the if-converted method for the 2005 debentures. However, as our
    2009 debentures require settlement of the principal amount of
    the debt in cash upon conversion, with the conversion premium
    paid in cash or stock at our option, potentially dilutive common
    shares are determined by applying the treasury stock method for
    these debentures. For further discussion on the specific
    conversion features of our 2005 and 2009 debentures, see
     Note 20: Borrowings. 

For 2009, we excluded 486 million
    outstanding weighted average stock options (484 million in 2008
    and 417 million in 2007) from the calculation of diluted
    earnings per common share because the exercise prices of these
    stock options were greater than or equal to the average market
    value of the common shares. These options could be included in
    the calculation in the future if the average market value of the
    common shares increases and is greater than the exercise price
    of these options. We also excluded our 2009 debentures from the
    calculation of diluted earnings per common share because the
    conversion option of these debentures was anti-dilutive. In the
    future, we could have potentially dilutive shares if the average
    market price is above the conversion price.

Note 26:
    Comprehensive Income  

The components of total
    comprehensive income were as follows:

98

Table of Contents   

INTEL
    CORPORATION 
    NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
    (Continued)  

The components of other
    comprehensive income (loss) and related tax effects were as
    follows:

1   

Amount is related to the reversal of a portion of our
    deferred tax asset valuation allowance attributed to changes in
    unrealized holding gains on our
     available-for-sale 
    investments. The amount will be relieved as these investments
    are sold or mature.  

The components of accumulated
    other comprehensive income (loss), net of tax, were as follows:

1   

As of December 26, 2009, accumulated unrealized
    non-credit-related
     other-than-temporary 
    impairment losses on
     available-for-sale 
    debt instruments were insignificant.  

The estimated net prior service
    cost, actuarial loss, and transition obligation for the defined
    benefit plan that will be amortized from accumulated other
    comprehensive income (loss) into net periodic benefit cost
    during 2010 are $2 million, $21 million, and zero, respectively.

99

Table of Contents   

INTEL
    CORPORATION 
    NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
    (Continued)  

Note 27:
    Taxes  

Income before taxes and the
    provision for taxes consisted of the following:

The 2009 deferred provision for
    income taxes includes $46 million of charges due to a change in
    assessment of the realizability of deferred tax assets of
     non-U.S. 
    subsidiaries recognized prior to 2009.

The difference between the tax
    provision at the statutory federal income tax rate and the tax
    provision as a percentage of income before income taxes
    (effective tax rate) was as follows:

During 2009, net income tax
    deficiencies attributable to equity-based compensation
    transactions that were allocated to stockholders  equity
    totaled $41 million (net benefits of $8 million in 2008 and $123
    million in 2007).

100

Table of Contents   

INTEL
    CORPORATION 
    NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
    (Continued)  

Deferred income taxes reflect the
    net tax effects of temporary differences between the carrying
    amounts of assets and liabilities for financial reporting
    purposes and the amounts for income tax purposes. Significant
    components of our deferred tax assets and liabilities at
    year-ends were as follows:

1   

As adjusted due to changes to the accounting for convertible
    debt instruments. See  Note 3: Accounting Changes.   

2   

Included within other long-term assets on the consolidated
    balance sheets.  

The valuation allowance is based
    on our assessment that it is more likely than not that certain
    deferred tax assets will not be realized in the foreseeable
    future. The valuation allowance as of December 26, 2009 included
    allowances related to unrealized state credit carry forwards of
    $135 million, investment asset impairments of $118 million, and
    depreciation expense and other matters related to our
     non-U.S. 
    subsidiaries of $76 million.

As of December 26, 2009, we had
    not recognized U.S. deferred income taxes on a cumulative total
    of $10.1 billion of undistributed earnings for certain
     non-U.S. 
    subsidiaries. Determining the unrecognized deferred tax
    liability related to investments in these
     non-U.S. 
    subsidiaries that are indefinitely reinvested is not
    practicable. We currently intend to reinvest those earnings in
    operations outside the U.S.

Effective at the beginning of
    2007, we adopted standards that changed the accounting for
    uncertain tax positions. As a result of the implementation of
    these standards, we reduced the liability for net unrecognized
    tax benefits by $181 million, and accounted for the reduction as
    a cumulative effect of a change in accounting principle that
    resulted in an increase to retained earnings of $181 million.

101

Table of Contents   

INTEL
    CORPORATION 
    NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
    (Continued)  

Long-term income taxes payable
    include uncertain tax positions, reduced by the associated
    federal deduction for state taxes and
     non-U.S.  tax
    credits, and may also include other long-term tax liabilities
    that are not uncertain but have not yet been paid.

The aggregate changes in the
    balance of gross unrecognized tax benefits were as follows:

(In Millions) 

Beginning balance as of December 31, 2006 (date of
    adoption) 

$ 

1,896 

Settlements and effective settlements with tax authorities and
    related remeasurements

(1,243

)

Increases in balances related to tax positions taken during
    prior periods

106

Decreases in balances related to tax positions taken during
    prior periods

(26

)

Increases in balances related to tax positions taken during
    current period

61

December 29, 2007 

$ 

794 

Settlements and effective settlements with tax authorities and
    related remeasurements

(154

)

Increases in balances related to tax positions taken during
    prior periods

72

Decreases in balances related to tax positions taken during
    prior periods

(84

)

Increases in balances related to tax positions taken during
    current period

116

December 27, 2008 

$ 

744 

Settlements and effective settlements with tax authorities and
    related remeasurements

(526

)

Increases in balances related to tax positions taken during
    prior periods

28

Decreases in balances related to tax positions taken during
    prior periods

(58

)

Increases in balances related to tax positions taken during
    current period

32

December 26, 2009 

$ 

220 

During 2007, the U.S. Internal
    Revenue Service (IRS) closed its examination of our tax returns
    for the years 1999 through 2002, resolving issues related to the
    tax benefits for export sales as well as a number of other
    issues. Additionally, we reached a settlement with the IRS for
    years 2003 through 2005 with respect to the tax benefits for
    export sales. In connection with the $739 million settlement
    with the IRS, we reversed long-term income taxes payable, which
    resulted in a $276 million tax benefit in 2007.

Also during 2007, we effectively
    settled with the IRS several other matters related to the audit
    for the 2003 and 2004 tax years, despite the fact that the IRS
    audit for those years remains open. The result of effectively
    settling those positions and the process of re-evaluating, based
    on all available information and certain required
    remeasurements, was a reduction of $389 million in the balance
    of our gross unrecognized tax benefits, $155 million of which
    resulted in a tax benefit in 2007.

During 2008, we reached a
    settlement with the IRS and certain state tax authorities
    related to prior years. The result of the settlements and
    related remeasurements was a reduction of $154 million in the
    balance of our gross unrecognized tax benefits, $103 million of
    which resulted in a tax benefit in 2008.

102

Table of Contents   

INTEL
    CORPORATION 
    NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
    (Continued)  

During 2009, we settled and
    effectively settled matters with the IRS and certain state tax
    authorities related to tax positions taken during prior periods.
    The result of the settlements, effective settlements, and
    resulting remeasurements was a reduction of $526 million in the
    balance of our gross unrecognized tax benefits, $366 million of
    which resulted in a tax benefit in 2009.

If the remaining balance of $220
    million of unrecognized tax benefits as of December 26, 2009
    ($744 million as of December 27, 2008) were realized in a future
    period, it would result in a tax benefit of $101 million and a
    reduction of the effective tax rate ($590 million as of December
    27, 2008).

During all years presented, we
    recognized interest and penalties related to unrecognized tax
    benefits within the provision for taxes on the consolidated
    statements of operations. In 2009, we recognized a net benefit
    of $62 million, primarily due to the reversal of accrued
    interest and penalties related to settled and effectively
    settled matters described above ($6 million of expense in 2008
    and a net benefit of $142 million in 2007). As of December 26,
    2009, we had $55 million of accrued interest and penalties
    related to unrecognized tax benefits ($153 million as of
    December 27, 2008).

Although the timing of the
    resolution
     and/or 
    closure on audits is highly uncertain, it is reasonably possible
    that the balance of gross unrecognized tax benefits could
    significantly change in the next 12 months. However, given the
    number of years remaining subject to examination and the number
    of matters being examined, we are unable to estimate the full
    range of possible adjustments to the balance of gross
    unrecognized tax benefits.

We had state tax credits of $219
    million as of December 26, 2009 that will expire between 2010
    and 2020. We file U.S. federal, U.S. state, and
     non-U.S.  tax
    returns. For U.S. state and
     non-U.S.  tax
    returns, we are generally no longer subject to tax examinations
    for years prior to 1996. For U.S. federal tax returns, we are no
    longer subject to tax examination for years prior to 2003.

Note 28:
    Contingencies  

Legal
    Proceedings   

We are currently a party to
    various legal proceedings, including those noted in this
    section. While management presently believes that the ultimate
    outcome of these proceedings, individually and in the aggregate,
    will not materially harm the company s financial position,
    cash flows, or overall trends in results of operations, legal
    proceedings and related government investigations are subject to
    inherent uncertainties, and unfavorable rulings could occur. An
    unfavorable ruling could include substantial money damages, and
    in matters for which injunctive relief or other conduct remedies
    are sought, an injunction or other order prohibiting us from
    selling one or more products at all or in particular ways,
    precluding particular business practices, or requiring other
    remedies such as compulsory licensing of intellectual property.
    Were unfavorable final outcomes to occur, there exists the
    possibility of a material adverse impact on our business,
    results of operations, financial position, and overall trends.
    Except as may be otherwise indicated, the outcomes in these
    matters are not reasonably estimable.

A number of proceedings, described
    below, generally challenge certain of our competitive practices,
    contending generally that we improperly condition price rebates
    and other discounts on our microprocessors on exclusive or
    near-exclusive dealing by some of our customers. We believe that
    we compete lawfully and that our marketing practices benefit our
    customers and our stockholders, and we will continue to
    vigorously defend ourselves. While we have settled some of these
    matters, the distractions caused by challenges to our business
    practices from the remaining matters are undesirable, and the
    legal and other costs associated with defending our position
    have been and continue to be significant. We assume that these
    challenges could continue for a number of years and may require
    the investment of substantial additional management time and
    substantial financial resources to explain and defend our
    position.

103

Table of Contents   

INTEL
    CORPORATION 
    NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
    (Continued)  

Advanced Micro Devices, Inc.
    (AMD) and AMD International Sales   Service, Ltd. v. Intel
    Corporation and Intel Kabushiki Kaisha, and Related Consumer
    Class Actions and Government Investigations  

In June 2005, AMD filed a
    complaint in the United States District Court for the District
    of Delaware alleging that we and our Japanese subsidiary engaged
    in various actions in violation of the Sherman Act and the
    California Business and Professions Code, including, among other
    things, providing discounts and rebates to our manufacturer and
    distributor customers conditioned on exclusive or near-exclusive
    dealing that allegedly unfairly interfered with AMD s
    ability to sell its microprocessors, interfering with certain
    AMD product launches, and interfering with AMD s
    participation in certain industry standards-setting groups.
    AMD s complaint sought unspecified treble damages, punitive
    damages, an injunction requiring Intel to cease any conduct
    found to be unlawful, and attorneys  fees and costs.
    AMD s Japanese subsidiary also filed suits in the Tokyo
    High Court and the Tokyo District Court against our Japanese
    subsidiary, asserting violations of Japan s Antimonopoly
    Law and alleging damages in each suit of approximately $55
    million, plus various other costs and fees.

On November 12, 2009, Intel
    Corporation and AMD announced a comprehensive agreement to end
    all outstanding legal disputes between the companies, including
    antitrust litigation and patent cross-license disputes. Under
    terms of the agreement, AMD and Intel obtained patent rights
    from a new five-year cross-license agreement, Intel and AMD gave
    up any claims of breach from the previous license agreement, and
    Intel paid AMD $1.25 billion. We recorded the related charge
    within marketing, general and administrative on the consolidated
    statements of operations. Intel also agreed to abide by a set of
    business practice provisions. As a result, AMD dropped all
    pending litigation, including the case in the U.S. District
    Court in Delaware and two cases pending in Japan. AMD also
    withdrew all of its regulatory complaints worldwide.

In addition, at least 82 separate
    class actions have been filed in the U.S. District Courts for
    the Northern District of California, Southern District of
    California, District of Idaho, District of Nebraska, District of
    New Mexico, District of Maine, and District of Delaware, as well
    as in various California, Kansas, and Tennessee state courts.
    These actions generally repeat AMD s allegations and assert
    various consumer injuries, including that consumers in various
    states have been injured by paying higher prices for computers
    containing our microprocessors. All of the federal class actions
    and the Kansas and Tennessee state court class actions have been
    consolidated by the Multidistrict Litigation Panel to the
    District of Delaware. In January 2010, the plaintiffs in the
    Delaware action filed a motion for sanctions for Intel s
    failure to preserve evidence. This motion largely copies a
    motion previously filed by AMD in the AMD litigation, which has
    settled. The putative class in the coordinated actions has moved
    for class certification, which we are in the process of
    opposing. All California class actions have been consolidated to
    the Superior Court of California in Santa Clara County. The
    plaintiffs in the California actions have moved for class
    certification, which we are in the process of opposing. At our
    request, the court in the California actions has agreed to delay
    ruling on this motion until after the Delaware Federal Court
    rules on the similar motion in the coordinated actions. We
    dispute the
     class-action 
    claims, and intend to defend the lawsuits vigorously.

We are also subject to certain
    antitrust regulatory inquiries. In 2001, the European Commission
    (EC) commenced an investigation regarding claims by AMD that we
    used unfair business practices to persuade clients to buy our
    microprocessors. Since that time, we have received numerous
    requests for information and documents from the EC, and we have
    responded to each of those requests. The EC issued a Statement
    of Objections in July 2007 and held a hearing on that Statement
    in March 2008. The EC issued a Supplemental Statement of
    Objections in July 2008.

On May 13, 2009, the EC issued a
    decision finding that we had violated Article 82 of the EC
    Treaty and Article 54 of the European Economic Area Agreement.
    In general, the EC found that we violated Article 82 (later
    renumbered as Article 102 by a new treaty) by offering
    alleged  conditional rebates and payments  that
    required Intel customers to purchase all or most of their x86
    microprocessors from us. The EC also found that we violated
    Article 82 by making alleged  payments to prevent sales of
    specific rival products.  The EC imposed a fine on us in
    the amount of  1.06 billion ($1.447 billion as of May 13,
    2009), which we paid during the third quarter of 2009, and also
    ordered us to  immediately bring to an end the infringement
    referred to in  the EC decision. We recorded the related
    charge within marketing, general and administrative on the
    consolidated statements of operations. We strongly disagree with
    the EC s decision, and we have appealed the decision to the
    General Court (formerly the Court of First Instance). The EC
    announced that it would actively monitor Intel s compliance
    with its decision. We have taken steps, which are subject to the
    EC s ongoing review, to comply with that decision pending
    appeal.

104

Table of Contents   

INTEL
    CORPORATION 
    NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
    (Continued)  

In June 2005, we received an
    inquiry from the Korea Fair Trade Commission (KFTC) requesting
    documents from our Korean subsidiary related to marketing and
    rebate programs that we entered into with Korean PC
    manufacturers. In February 2006, the KFTC initiated an
    inspection of documents at our offices in Korea. In September
    2007, the KFTC served us an Examination Report alleging that
    sales to two customers during parts of 2002 2005 violated
    Korea s Monopoly Regulation and Fair Trade Act. In December
    2007, we submitted our written response to the KFTC. In February
    2008, the KFTC s examiner submitted a written reply to our
    response. In March 2008, we submitted a further response. In
    April 2008, we participated in a pre-hearing conference before
    the KFTC, and we participated in formal hearings in May and June
    2008. In June 2008, the KFTC announced its intent to fine us
    approximately $25 million for providing discounts to Samsung
    Electronics Co., Ltd. and TriGem Computer Inc. In November 2008,
    the KFTC issued a final written decision concluding that
    Intel s discounts had violated Korean antitrust law and
    imposing a fine on Intel of approximately $20 million, which
    Intel paid in January 2009. In December 2008, Intel appealed
    this decision by filing a lawsuit in the Seoul High Court
    seeking to overturn the KFTC s decision. The KFTC through
    its attorneys filed its answer to Intel s complaint in
    March 2009. Thereafter Intel and the KFTC will provide arguments
    to the court in sequential briefs.

In November 2009, the State of New
    York filed a lawsuit against Intel in the U.S. District Court
    for the District of Delaware. The lawsuit alleges that Intel
    violated federal antitrust laws; the New York Donnelly Act,
    which prohibits contracts or agreements to monopolize; and the
    New York Executive Law, which proscribes underlying violations
    of federal and state antitrust laws. The lawsuit alleges that
    Intel has engaged in a systematic worldwide campaign of illegal,
    exclusionary conduct to maintain its monopoly power and prices
    in the market for x86 microprocessors through the use of various
    alleged actions, including exclusive or near-exclusive
    agreements from large computer makers in exchange for
     loyalty payments  and  bribes,  and other
    alleged threats and retaliation. The plaintiff claims that
    Intel s alleged actions harmed consumers, competition, and
    innovation. The lawsuit seeks a declaration that Intel s
    alleged actions have violated the federal and New York antitrust
    laws and the New York Executive Law, an injunction to prevent
    further alleged unlawful acts, unspecified damages in an amount
    to be proven at trial, trebled as provided for by law,
    restitution, disgorgement, $1 million for each violation of the
    Donnelly Act proven by the plaintiff, and attorneys  fees
    and costs. In January 2010, Intel filed its answer. Intel
    disagrees with the plaintiff s allegations and claims, and
    intends to conduct a vigorous defense of the lawsuit.

In December 2009, the New York
    Attorney General s staff served a subpoena on Intel. That
    subpoena calls for production of documents and information
    related to various aspects of Intel s notebook computer
    business, including products that offer graphics capabilities
     and/or 
    potentially compete with graphic processing units (GPUs). It
    also calls for production of all documents concerning
    Intel s notebook computer business that Intel previously
    produced to other U.S. and foreign antitrust agencies in
    connection with their antitrust investigations of Intel.

In June 2008, the U.S. Federal
    Trade Commission (FTC) announced a formal investigation into our
    sales practices. In June 2009, the FTC staff asked for
    additional information and testimony by some Intel witnesses.
    During the months that followed, the FTC staff broadened its
    inquiry and gave Intel only limited opportunities to address
    staff concerns. Settlement discussions were unsuccessful. In
    December 2009, three FTC commissioners voted to issue an
    administrative complaint alleging that Intel had violated
    Section 5 of the FTC Act by engaging in unfair methods of
    competition and unfair acts or practices in markets for CPUs and
    GPUs. This administrative proceeding will lead to a hearing
    before Chief Administrative Law Judge Chappell that is set to
    begin in September 2010. Any initial decision rendered by Judge
    Chappell can be appealed to the Commissioners by both the FTC
    staff supporting the complaint and by Intel. If the FTC
    ultimately issues a decision adverse to Intel, that decision can
    be appealed to a Federal Circuit of Intel s choosing. Intel
    disagrees with the FTC s allegations and claims, and
    intends to conduct a vigorous defense.

Intel/AMD
    Cross-License Agreement  

Intel and AMD entered into a
    patent cross-license in January 2001. Under that license, Intel
    granted AMD a limited license to certain Intel patents, subject
    to the terms of that agreement. In October 2008, AMD announced
    its intention to form a joint venture called The Foundry Company
    (later renamed GlobalFoundries Inc.) with two investment
    entities of the Emirate of Abu Dhabi. In March 2009, AMD
    announced that it had closed this transaction. AMD has claimed
    that GlobalFoundries is entitled to a license to Intel patents
    under the 2001 Intel/AMD cross-license. Intel disagreed with
    that claim and also claimed that AMD had breached the Intel/AMD
    2001 cross-license. In November 2009, Intel and AMD resolved
    these disputes as part of a comprehensive settlement and entered
    into a new five-year cross-license agreement.

105

Table of Contents   

INTEL
    CORPORATION 
    NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
    (Continued)  

Antitrust
    Derivative Litigation and Related Matters  

In February 2008, Martin Smilow,
    an Intel stockholder, filed a putative derivative action in the
    United States District Court for the District of Delaware
    against members of our Board of Directors. The complaint alleges
    generally that the Board allowed the company to violate
    antitrust and other laws, as described in AMD s antitrust
    lawsuits against us, and that those Board-sanctioned activities
    have harmed the company. The complaint repeats many of
    AMD s allegations and references various investigations by
    the EC, the KFTC, and others. In February 2008, a second
    plaintiff, Evan Tobias, filed a derivative suit in the same
    court against the Board containing many of the same allegations
    as in the Smilow suit. On July 30, 2008, the District Court
    entered an order directing Smilow and Tobias to file a single,
    consolidated complaint by August 7, 2008 and directing us to
    respond within 30 days thereafter. An amended consolidated
    complaint was filed on August 7, 2008. In June 2009, the Court
    granted the defendants  motion to dismiss the
    plaintiffs  consolidated complaint, with prejudice.

In June 2008, a third plaintiff,
    Christine Del Gaizo, filed a derivative suit in the Santa Clara
    County Superior Court against the Board, a former director of
    the Board, and six of our officers, containing many of the same
    allegations as in the Smilow and Tobias suits. In August 2008,
    the parties in the California derivative suit entered into a
    stipulation to stay the action pending further order of the
    court, and the court entered an order to that effect in
    September 2008.

In November 2009, a fourth
    plaintiff, Charles Gilman, filed a stockholder derivative suit
    in the United States District Court for the District of Delaware
    against Intel s current Board members as well as three
    former Board members. Gilman s complaint makes many of the
    same allegations raised in the earlier suits, additionally cites
    a number of excerpts from the EC s ruling, and points to
    the settlement of the AMD litigation as supposed evidence of
    damage to Intel.

In December 2009, a fifth
    plaintiff, Louisiana Municipal Police Employee Retirement System
    (LMPERS), filed a stockholder derivative suit in the United
    States District Court for the District of Delaware against
    Intel s current Board members as well as three former Board
    members. LMPERS s complaint makes many of the same
    allegations raised in the earlier suits, and additionally
    incorporates by reference the allegations made in the lawsuit
    filed against Intel by the New York Attorney General. In January
    2010, Delaware District Court Judge Farnan signed a stipulated
    order consolidating the Gilman and LMPERS actions under the name
     In re Intel Corp. Derivative Litigation . Gilman and
    LMPERS filed a consolidated complaint in February 2010. We deny
    the allegations in all of these derivative suits and intend to
    defend the lawsuits vigorously.

Intel stockholders Martin Smilow
    and the Rosenfeld Family Foundation filed an action in Delaware
    Chancery Court in November 2009 to enforce an inspection demand
    that they had previously made pursuant to section 220 of the
    Delaware General Corporation Law. Intel denies the allegations
    and intends to defend the lawsuit vigorously.

Intel Corporation v.
    Commonwealth Scientific and Industrial Research Organisation
    (CSIRO)  

In May 2005, Intel filed a lawsuit
    in the United States District Court for the Northern District of
    California against CSIRO, an Australian research institute.
    CSIRO had sent letters to Intel customers claiming that products
    compliant with the IEEE 802.11a and 802.11g standards infringe
    CSIRO s U.S. Patent No. 5,487,069 (the  069 patent).
    Intel s lawsuit sought a declaration that the CSIRO patent
    is invalid and that no Intel product infringes it. Dell Inc. was
    a co-declaratory judgment plaintiff with Intel; Microsoft
    Corporation, Netgear Inc., and
     Hewlett-Packard 
    Company filed a similar, separate lawsuit against CSIRO. In its
    amended answer, CSIRO claimed that various Intel products
    compliant with the IEEE 802.11a, 802.11g,
     and/or  draft
    802.11n standards infringe the  069 patent. In 2009, we
    entered into a settlement agreement with CSIRO pursuant to
    which, among other things, we made payments to CSIRO in exchange
    for a license to certain patents. The settlement agreement did
    not significantly impact our results of operations or cash flows.

106

Table of Contents   

INTEL
    CORPORATION 
    NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
    (Continued)  

Lehman
    Matter  

In November 2009, representatives
    of Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc. advised Intel informally that
    the Lehman bankruptcy estate was considering a claim against
    Intel arising from a 2008 forward-share purchase contract. The
    transaction at issue was between Intel and Lehman Brothers OTC
    Derivatives Inc. (together with its affiliate Lehman Brothers
    Holdings Inc.,  Lehman ), which entered into a
    $1.0 billion forward-purchase agreement to purchase shares
    of Intel common stock. Under the terms of the agreement, Intel
    provided a $1.0 billion pre-payment to Lehman, in exchange
    for which Lehman was required to purchase $1.0 billion in
    shares of Intel common stock, calculated at a volume weighted
    average price from August 26, 2008 to September 26, 2008. Intel
    received an equivalent $1.0 billion of cash collateral from
    Lehman. Lehman was obligated to deliver approximately 50 million
    shares of Intel common stock to Intel on September 29, 2008.
    Lehman failed to deliver any shares of Intel common stock, and
    Intel foreclosed on the $1.0 billion collateral. No
    specific information has been provided by Lehman regarding the
    nature or scope of the potential claims, other than the
    assertion that Lehman contends that it suffered damages in a
    range between $130 million and $380 million. In February 2010,
    Lehman served a subpoena on Intel in connection with this
    transaction, but Lehman has not initiated any action against
    Intel to date. We believe that Intel acted appropriately under
    its agreement with Lehman, in light of Lehman s bankruptcy
    filing, and we intend to defend any claim to the contrary.

Saxon
    Innovations, LLC v. Intel Corporation  

In August 2008, Saxon Innovations,
    LLC filed an action for patent infringement against six personal
    computer OEMs (Apple Inc., Gateway, Inc., Acer Inc.,
    Hewlett-Packard Company, Dell Inc., and ASUSTeK Computer Inc.)
    in the U.S. District Court for the Eastern District of Texas.
    The asserted patents are U.S. Patent No. 5,592,555, entitled
     Wireless Communications Privacy Method and System 
    U.S. Patent No. 5,502,689, entitled  Clock Generator
    Capable of Shut-Down Mode and Clock Generation Method 
    U.S. Patent No. 5,530,597, entitled  Apparatus and Method
    for Disabling Interrupt Masks in Processors or the Like 
    U.S. Patent No. 5,247,621, entitled  System and Method for
    Processor Bus Use  and U.S. Patent No. 5,235,635, entitled
     Keypad Monitor with Keypad Activity-Based
    Activation.  The complaint sought unspecified damages and a
    permanent injunction. In September 2008, Intel filed an
    unopposed motion to intervene in the case. In response, Saxon
    Innovations filed a counterclaim against Intel, accusing Intel
    of infringing the patents listed above, and asserting two
    additional patents against Intel: U.S. Patent No. 5,422,832,
    entitled  Variable Thermal Sensor,  and U.S. Patent
    No. 5,829,031, entitled  Microprocessor Configured to
    Detect a Group of Instructions and to Perform a Specific
    Function upon Detection.  In January 2010, we entered into
    a settlement agreement with Saxon Innovations pursuant to which,
    among other things, we made a payment to Saxon Innovations in
    exchange for a license to certain patents. The settlement
    agreement did not significantly impact our results of operations
    or cash flows.

Frank T. Shum v. Intel
    Corporation, Jean-Marc Verdiell, and LightLogic, Inc.  

Intel acquired LightLogic, Inc. in
    May 2001. Frank Shum has sued Intel, LightLogic, and
    LightLogic s founder, Jean-Marc Verdiell, claiming that
    much of LightLogic s intellectual property is based on
    alleged inventions that Shum conceived while he and Verdiell
    were partners at Radiance Design, Inc. Shum has alleged claims
    for fraud, breach of fiduciary duty, fraudulent concealment, and
    breach of contract. Shum also seeks alleged correction of
    inventorship of seven patents acquired by Intel as part of the
    LightLogic acquisition. In January 2005, the U.S. District Court
    for the Northern District of California denied Shum s
    inventorship claim, and thereafter granted Intel s motion
    for summary judgment on Shum s remaining claims. In August
    2007, the United States Court of Appeals for the Federal Circuit
    vacated the District Court s rulings and remanded the case
    for further proceedings. In October 2008, the District Court
    granted Intel s motion for summary judgment on Shum s
    claims for breach of fiduciary duty and fraudulent concealment,
    but denied Intel s motion on Shum s remaining claims.
    A jury trial on Shum s remaining claims took place in
    November and December 2008. In pre-trial proceedings and at
    trial, Shum requested monetary damages against the defendants in
    amounts ranging from $31 million to $931 million, and his final
    request to the jury was for as much as $175 million. Following
    deliberations, the jury was unable to reach a verdict on most of
    the claims. With respect to Shum s claim that he is the
    proper inventor on certain LightLogic patents now assigned to
    Intel, the jury agreed with Shum on some of those claims. But
    the jury was unable to reach a verdict on the breach of
    contract, fraud, or unjust enrichment claims. In April 2009, the
    court granted defendants  motions for judgment as a matter
    of law. Shum has appealed that ruling to the United States Court
    of Appeals for the Federal Circuit.

107

Table of Contents   

INTEL
    CORPORATION 
    NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
    (Continued)  

Wisconsin
    Alumni Research Foundation v. Intel Corporation  

In February 2008, the Wisconsin
    Alumni Research Foundation filed an action for patent
    infringement against Intel in the U.S. District Court for the
    Western District of Wisconsin. The complaint generally alleged
    that Intel infringed U.S. Patent No. 5,781,752 by making, using,
    offering for sale, importing,
     and/or 
    selling certain of Intel s microprocessors, including the
    Intel   

    Core  tm    2

    Duo processor family with Smart Memory Access and any other
    microprocessor using the same or a similar memory disambiguation
    technique. In 2009, we entered into a settlement agreement
    pursuant to which, among other things, we made a payment to the
    Wisconsin Alumni Research Foundation in exchange for a license
    to certain patents. The settlement agreement did not
    significantly impact our results of operations or cash flows.

Note 29:
    Operating Segment and Geographic Information  

At the end of 2009, we reorganized
    our business to better align our major product groups around the
    core competencies of Intel architecture and our manufacturing
    operations. After the reorganization, we have nine operating
    segments, including PC Client Group, Data Center Group, Embedded
    and Communications Group, Digital Home Group, Ultra-Mobility
    Group, NAND Solutions Group, Wind River Software Group, Software
    and Services Group, and Digital Health Group. All prior-period
    amounts have been adjusted retrospectively to reflect the new
    organizational structure.

The Chief Operating Decision Maker
    (CODM) is our President and Chief Executive Officer. The CODM
    allocates resources to and assesses the performance of each
    operating segment using information about its revenue and
    operating income (loss).

Our PC Client Group and our Data
    Center Group are reportable operating segments. We also
    aggregate and disclose the financial results of the following
    non-reportable operating segments, whose product lines are based
    on Intel architecture: Embedded and Communications Group,
    Digital Home Group, and Ultra-Mobility Group. These
    non-reportable operating segments are aggregated, as they have
    similar economic characteristics and their operations are
    similar in nature. These aggregated operating segments do not
    meet the quantitative thresholds to qualify as reportable
    operating segments; however, we have chosen to disclose the
    aggregation of these non-reportable operating segments into the
     other Intel architecture operating segments 
    category. Revenue for our reportable and aggregated
     non-reportable 
    operating segments is primarily related to the following product
    lines:

PC Client
    Group.    Includes
    microprocessors and related chipsets and motherboards designed
    for the desktop (including high-end enthusiast PCs), notebook,
    and netbook market segments; and wireless connectivity products.

Data Center
    Group.    Includes
    microprocessors and related chipsets and motherboards designed
    for the server, workstation, and storage computing market
    segments; and wired network connectivity products.

Other Intel architecture
    operating
    segments.    Includes
    microprocessors and related chipsets for embedded applications
    and products designed for the ultra-mobile market segment, which
    includes various handheld devices; and products for the consumer
    electronics market segments.

Our NAND Solutions Group, Wind
    River Software Group, Software and Services Group, and Digital
    Health Group operating segments do not meet the quantitative
    thresholds to qualify as reportable segments and are included
    within the  other operating segments  category.

Revenue within the
     corporate  category is primarily related to divested
    businesses for which discrete operating results are not reviewed
    by our CODM to assess performance and allocate resources. This
    includes revenue related to our NOR flash memory and cellular
    and handheld businesses, as well as revenue and expenses related
    to supply and service agreements that were entered into as part
    of these divestitures (see  Note 16: Divestitures ).

We have sales and marketing,
    manufacturing, finance, and administration groups. Expenses for
    these groups are generally allocated to the operating segments,
    and the expenses are included in the operating results reported
    below.

108

Table of Contents   

INTEL
    CORPORATION 
    NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
    (Continued)  

During 2009, we incurred charges
    of $1.447 billion ( 1.06 billion) as a result of the fine
    from the EC and $1.25 billion as a result of our legal
    settlement with AMD. For further information, see  Note 28:
    Contingencies.  These charges were included in the
     corporate  category, which also includes expenses and
    charges such as:

amounts included within
    restructuring and asset impairment charges;

a portion of profit-dependent
    compensation and other expenses not allocated to the operating
    segments;

results of operations of seed
    businesses that support our initiatives; and

acquisition-related costs,
    including amortization and any impairment of acquisition-related
    intangibles and goodwill.

The CODM does not evaluate
    operating segments using discrete asset information. Operating
    segments do not record inter-segment revenue, and, accordingly,
    there is none to be reported. We do not allocate gains and
    losses from equity investments, interest and other income, or
    taxes to operating segments. Although the CODM uses operating
    income to evaluate the segments, operating costs included in one
    segment may benefit other segments. Except as discussed above,
    the accounting policies for segment reporting are the same as
    for Intel as a whole.

Net revenue and operating income
    (loss) for the three years ended December 26, 2009 were as
    follows:

In 2009, one customer accounted
    for 21% of our net revenue (20% in 2008 and 17% in 2007), while
    another customer accounted for 17% of our net revenue (18% in
    2008 and 2007). The majority of the revenue from these customers
    was from the sale of microprocessors, chipsets, and other
    components by the PC Client Group and the Data Center Group
    operating segments.

109

Table of Contents   

INTEL
    CORPORATION 
    NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
    (Continued)  

Geographic revenue information for
    the three years ended December 26, 2009 is based on the location
    of the customer. Revenue from unaffiliated customers was as
    follows:

Revenue from unaffiliated
    customers outside the U.S. totaled $29,847 million in 2009
    ($32,124 million in 2008 and $32,319 million in 2007).

Net property, plant and equipment
    by country was as follows:

1   

As adjusted due to changes to the accounting for convertible
    debt instruments. See  Note 3: Accounting Changes.   

Net property, plant and equipment
    outside the U.S. totaled $5,581 million in 2009 ($6,320 million
    in 2008 and $6,271 million in 2007).

110

Table of Contents   

REPORT OF
    ERNST   YOUNG LLP, INDEPENDENT REGISTERED PUBLIC ACCOUNTING
    FIRM  

The Board of Directors and Stockholders, Intel
    Corporation  

We have audited the accompanying
    consolidated balance sheets of Intel Corporation as of December
    26, 2009 and December 27, 2008, and the related consolidated
    statements of operations, stockholders  equity, and cash
    flows for each of the three years in the period ended December
    26, 2009. Our audits also included the financial statement
    schedule listed in the Index at Part IV, Item 15. These
    financial statements and schedule are the responsibility of the
    company s management. Our responsibility is to express an
    opinion on these financial statements and schedule based on our
    audits.

We conducted our audits in
    accordance with the standards of the Public Company Accounting
    Oversight Board (United States). Those standards require that we
    plan and perform the audit to obtain reasonable assurance about
    whether the financial statements are free of material
    misstatement. An audit includes examining, on a test basis,
    evidence supporting the amounts and disclosures in the financial
    statements. An audit also includes assessing the accounting
    principles used and significant estimates made by management, as
    well as evaluating the overall financial statement presentation.
    We believe that our audits provide a reasonable basis for our
    opinion.

In our opinion, the financial
    statements referred to above present fairly, in all material
    respects, the consolidated financial position of Intel
    Corporation at December 26, 2009 and December 27, 2008, and the
    consolidated results of its operations and its cash flows for
    each of the three years in the period ended December 26, 2009,
    in conformity with U.S. generally accepted accounting
    principles. Also, in our opinion, the related financial
    statement schedule, when considered in relation to the basic
    financial statements taken as a whole, presents fairly in all
    material respects the information set forth therein.

As discussed in Notes 3 and 27 to
    the consolidated financial statements, Intel Corporation changed
    its method of accounting for convertible debt instruments with
    cash settlement features during 2009, its method of accounting
    for sabbatical leave as of December 31, 2006, and its method of
    accounting for uncertain tax positions as of December 31, 2006.

We also have audited, in
    accordance with the standards of the Public Company Accounting
    Oversight Board (United States), Intel Corporation s
    internal control over financial reporting as of December 26,
    2009, based on criteria established in Internal
    Control Integrated Framework issued by the Committee of
    Sponsoring Organizations of the Treadway Commission and our
    report dated February 22, 2010 expressed an unqualified opinion
    thereon.

/s/ Ernst   Young LLP

San Jose, California

February 22, 2010

111

Table of Contents   

REPORT OF
    ERNST   YOUNG LLP, INDEPENDENT REGISTERED PUBLIC ACCOUNTING
    FIRM  

The Board of Directors and Stockholders, Intel
    Corporation  

We have audited Intel
    Corporation s internal control over financial reporting as
    of December 26, 2009, based on criteria established in Internal
    Control Integrated Framework issued by the Committee of
    Sponsoring Organizations of the Treadway Commission (the COSO
    criteria). Intel Corporation s management is responsible
    for maintaining effective internal control over financial
    reporting, and for its assessment of the effectiveness of
    internal control over financial reporting included in the
    accompanying Management Report on Internal Control Over
    Financial Reporting. Our responsibility is to express an opinion
    on the company s internal control over financial reporting
    based on our audit.

We conducted our audit in
    accordance with the standards of the Public Company Accounting
    Oversight Board (United States). Those standards require that we
    plan and perform the audit to obtain reasonable assurance about
    whether effective internal control over financial reporting was
    maintained in all material respects. Our audit included
    obtaining an understanding of internal control over financial
    reporting, assessing the risk that a material weakness exists,
    testing and evaluating the design and operating effectiveness of
    internal control based on the assessed risk, and performing such
    other procedures as we considered necessary in the
    circumstances. We believe that our audit provides a reasonable
    basis for our opinion.

A company s internal control
    over financial reporting is a process designed to provide
    reasonable assurance regarding the reliability of financial
    reporting and the preparation of financial statements for
    external purposes in accordance with generally accepted
    accounting principles. A company s internal control over
    financial reporting includes those policies and procedures that
    (1) pertain to the maintenance of records that, in reasonable
    detail, accurately and fairly reflect the transactions and
    dispositions of the assets of the company; (2) provide
    reasonable assurance that transactions are recorded as necessary
    to permit preparation of financial statements in accordance with
    generally accepted accounting principles, and that receipts and
    expenditures of the company are being made only in accordance
    with authorizations of management and directors of the company;
    and (3) provide reasonable assurance regarding prevention or
    timely detection of unauthorized acquisition, use, or
    disposition of the company s assets that could have a
    material effect on the financial statements.

Because of its inherent
    limitations, internal control over financial reporting may not
    prevent or detect misstatements. Also, projections of any
    evaluation of effectiveness to future periods are subject to the
    risk that controls may become inadequate because of changes in
    conditions, or that the degree of compliance with the policies
    or procedures may deteriorate.

In our opinion, Intel Corporation
    maintained, in all material respects, effective internal control
    over financial reporting as of December 26, 2009, based on the
    COSO criteria.

We also have audited, in
    accordance with the standards of the Public Company Accounting
    Oversight Board (United States), the 2009 consolidated financial
    statements of Intel Corporation and our report dated February
    22, 2010 expressed an unqualified opinion thereon.

/s/ Ernst   Young LLP

San Jose, California

February 22, 2010

112

Table of Contents   

INTEL
    CORPORATION 
    FINANCIAL INFORMATION BY QUARTER (UNAUDITED)  

1   

During the fourth quarter of 2009, we recorded a charge of
    $1.25 billion as a result of a settlement agreement with AMD.
    For further information, see  Note 28: Contingencies 
    in the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements of this Form
     10-K.   

2   

During the second quarter of 2009, we recorded a charge of
    $1.447 billion ( 1.06 billion) as a result of the fine
    imposed by the EC. For further information, see  Note 28:
    Contingencies  in the Notes to Consolidated Financial
    Statements of this Form
     10-K.   

3   

Intel s common stock (symbol INTC) trades on The NASDAQ
    Global Select Market and is quoted in the Wall Street Journal
    and other newspapers. All stock prices are closing prices per
    The NASDAQ Global Select Market.  

4   

During the fourth quarter of 2008, we recorded a total of
    $938 million in impairment charges related to our Clearwire
    investments. $762 million was related to our investment in
    Clearwire LLC and $176 million was related to our investment in
    Clearwire Corporation. For further information, see  Note
    11: Non-Marketable Equity Investments  and  Note 7:
     Available-for-Sale 
    Investments,  respectively, in the Notes to Consolidated
    Financial Statements of this Form
     10-K.   

113

Table of Contents   

ITEM
    9.        

CHANGES
    IN AND DISAGREEMENTS WITH ACCOUNTANTS ON ACCOUNTING AND
    FINANCIAL DISCLOSURE  

Not applicable.

ITEM
    9A.        

CONTROLS
    AND PROCEDURES  

Evaluation
    of Disclosure Controls and Procedures  

Based on management s
    evaluation (with the participation of our CEO and Chief
    Financial Officer (CFO)), as of the end of the period covered by
    this report, our CEO and CFO have concluded that our disclosure
    controls and procedures (as defined in Rules
     13a-15(e) 
    and
     15d-15(e) 
    under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (the
    Exchange Act)), are effective to provide reasonable assurance
    that information required to be disclosed by us in reports that
    we file or submit under the Exchange Act is recorded, processed,
    summarized, and reported within the time periods specified in
    SEC rules and forms, and is accumulated and communicated to
    management, including our principal executive officer and
    principal financial officer, as appropriate, to allow timely
    decisions regarding required disclosure.

Changes
    in Internal Control Over Financial Reporting  

There were no changes to our
    internal control over financial reporting (as defined in Rules
     13a-15(f) 
    and
     15d-15(f) 
    under the Exchange Act) that occurred during the period covered
    by this report that have materially affected, or are reasonably
    likely to materially affect, our internal control over financial
    reporting.

Management
    Report on Internal Control Over Financial Reporting  

Our management is responsible for
    establishing and maintaining adequate internal control over
    financial reporting (as defined in Rules
     13a-15(f) 
    and
     15d-15(f) 
    under the Exchange Act) to provide reasonable assurance
    regarding the reliability of our financial reporting and the
    preparation of consolidated financial statements for external
    purposes in accordance with U.S. generally accepted accounting
    principles.

Management assessed our internal
    control over financial reporting as of December 26, 2009, the
    end of our fiscal year. Management based its assessment on
    criteria established in Internal Control Integrated
    Framework issued by the Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of
    the Treadway Commission. Management s assessment included
    evaluation of elements such as the design and operating
    effectiveness of key financial reporting controls, process
    documentation, accounting policies, and our overall control
    environment.

Based on our assessment,
    management has concluded that our internal control over
    financial reporting was effective as of the end of the fiscal
    year to provide reasonable assurance regarding the reliability
    of financial reporting and the preparation of consolidated
    financial statements for external reporting purposes in
    accordance with U.S. generally accepted accounting principles.
    We reviewed the results of management s assessment with the
    Audit Committee of our Board of Directors.

Our independent registered public
    accounting firm, Ernst   Young LLP, independently assessed
    the effectiveness of the company s internal control over
    financial reporting, as stated in their attestation report,
    which is included at the end of Part II, Item 8 of this Form
     10-K. 

114

Table of Contents   

Inherent
    Limitations on Effectiveness of Controls  

Our management, including the CEO
    and CFO, does not expect that our disclosure controls or our
    internal control over financial reporting will prevent or detect
    all error and all fraud. A control system, no matter how well
    designed and operated, can provide only reasonable, not
    absolute, assurance that the control system s objectives
    will be met. The design of a control system must reflect the
    fact that there are resource constraints, and the benefits of
    controls must be considered relative to their costs. Further,
    because of the inherent limitations in all control systems, no
    evaluation of controls can provide absolute assurance that
    misstatements due to error or fraud will not occur or that all
    control issues and instances of fraud, if any, have been
    detected. The design of any system of controls is based in part
    on certain assumptions about the likelihood of future events,
    and there can be no assurance that any design will succeed in
    achieving its stated goals under all potential future
    conditions. Projections of any evaluation of the effectiveness
    of controls to future periods are subject to risks. Over time,
    controls may become inadequate because of changes in conditions
    or deterioration in the degree of compliance with policies or
    procedures.

ITEM
    9B.        

OTHER
    INFORMATION  

None.

115

Table of Contents   

PART
    III  

ITEM
    10.   

DIRECTORS,
    EXECUTIVE OFFICERS AND CORPORATE GOVERNANCE  

The information in our 2010 Proxy
    Statement regarding directors and executive officers appearing
    under the headings  Proposal 1: Election of Directors 
    and  Other Matters Section 16(a) Beneficial Ownership
    Reporting Compliance  is incorporated by reference in this
    section. The information under the heading  Executive
    Officers of the Registrant  in Part I, Item 1 of this Form
     10-K  is also
    incorporated by reference in this section. In addition, the
    information under the heading  Corporate Governance 
    in our 2010 Proxy Statement is incorporated by reference in this
    section.

The Intel Code of Conduct is our
    code of ethics document applicable to all employees, including
    all officers, and including our independent directors, who are
    not employees of the company, with regard to their Intel-related
    activities. The Code incorporates our guidelines designed to
    deter wrongdoing and to promote honest and ethical conduct and
    compliance with applicable laws and regulations. The Code also
    incorporates our expectations of our employees that enable us to
    provide accurate and timely disclosure in our filings with the
    SEC and other public communications. In addition, the Code
    incorporates guidelines pertaining to topics such as complying
    with applicable laws, rules, and regulations; reporting Code
    violations; and maintaining accountability for adherence to the
    Code.

The full text of our Code is
    published on our Investor Relations web site at
     www.intc.com . We intend to disclose future amendments to
    certain provisions of our Code, or waivers of such provisions
    granted to executive officers and directors, on the web site
    within four business days following the date of such amendment
    or waiver.

ITEM
    11.   

EXECUTIVE
    COMPENSATION  

The information appearing in our
    2010 Proxy Statement under the headings  Director
    Compensation,   Compensation Discussion and
    Analysis,   Report of the Compensation
    Committee,  and  Executive Compensation  is
    incorporated by reference in this section.

ITEM
    12.   

SECURITY
    OWNERSHIP OF CERTAIN BENEFICIAL OWNERS AND MANAGEMENT AND
    RELATED STOCKHOLDER MATTERS  

The information appearing in our
    2010 Proxy Statement under the heading  Security Ownership
    of Certain Beneficial Owners and Management  is
    incorporated by reference in this section.

116

Table of Contents   

Equity
    Compensation Plan Information  

Information as of December 26,
    2009 regarding equity compensation plans approved and not
    approved by stockholders is summarized in the following table
    (shares in millions):

1   

The weighted average exercise price does not take into
    account the shares issuable upon vesting of outstanding
    restricted stock units, which have no exercise price.  

2   

Includes 102.5 million shares issuable upon vesting of
    restricted stock units granted under the 2006 Equity Incentive
    Plan, including a maximum of 3.8 million market-based restricted
    stock units that could be awarded at the end of the requisite
    period. Also includes 4.8 million shares issuable upon vesting
    of restricted stock units granted under the 2004 Equity
    Incentive Plan.  

3   

Maximum of 253 million shares that can be awarded as
    restricted stock or restricted stock units under the 2006 Equity
    Incentive Plan. Amount also includes 157.1 million shares
    available under our 2006 Stock Purchase Plan.  

4   

Consists of shares available upon exercise of options granted
    under our 1997 Stock Option Plan, which was not required to be
    approved by stockholders. The 1997 Stock Option Plan was
    terminated as to future grants in May 2004.  

5   

Total excludes 350,000 shares issuable under outstanding
    options, with a weighted average exercise price of $11.33,
    originally granted under plans that we assumed in connection
    with acquisitions.  

The 1997 Stock Option Plan (1997
    Plan) provided for the granting of stock options to employees
    other than officers and directors. The 1997 Plan, which was not
    approved by stockholders, was terminated as to future grants
    when the 2004 Equity Incentive Plan was approved by stockholders
    in May 2004. The 1997 Plan is administered by the Compensation
    Committee, which has the power to determine matters related to
    outstanding option awards under the 1997 Plan, including
    conditions of vesting and exercisability. Options granted under
    the 1997 Plan expire no later than ten years from the grant
    date. Options granted before 2003 under the 1997 Plan generally
    vest in five years, and options granted under the 1997 Plan in
    2003 and 2004 generally vest in increments over four or five
    years from the date of grant. Grants to key employees may have
    delayed vesting, generally beginning six years from the date of
    grant.

ITEM
    13.        

CERTAIN
    RELATIONSHIPS AND RELATED TRANSACTIONS, AND DIRECTOR
    INDEPENDENCE  

The information appearing in our
    2010 Proxy Statement under the headings  Corporate
    Governance  and  Certain Relationships and Related
    Transactions  is incorporated by reference in this section.

ITEM
    14.        

PRINCIPAL
    ACCOUNTING FEES AND SERVICES  

The information appearing in our
    2010 Proxy Statement under the headings  Report of the
    Audit Committee  and  Proposal 2: Ratification of
    Selection of Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm 
    is incorporated by reference in this section.

117

Table of Contents   

PART
    IV  

ITEM
     15.      

EXHIBITS,
    FINANCIAL STATEMENT SCHEDULES  

1. Financial Statements: See
     Index to Consolidated Financial Statements  in Part
    II, Item 8 of this Form
     10-K. 

2. Financial Statement
    Schedule: See  Schedule II Valuation and Qualifying
    Accounts  in this section of this Form
     10-K. 

3. Exhibits: The exhibits
    listed in the accompanying index to exhibits are filed or
    incorporated by reference as part of this Form
     10-K. 

Certain of the agreements filed as
    exhibits to this Form
     10-K  contain
    representations and warranties by the parties to the agreements
    that have been made solely for the benefit of the parties to the
    agreement. These representations and warranties:

may have been qualified by
    disclosures that were made to the other parties in connection
    with the negotiation of the agreements, which disclosures are
    not necessarily reflected in the agreements;

may apply standards of materiality
    that differ from those of a reasonable investor; and

were made only as of specified
    dates contained in the agreements and are subject to subsequent
    developments and changed circumstances.

Accordingly, these representations
    and warranties may not describe the actual state of affairs as
    of the date that these representations and warranties were made
    or at any other time. Investors should not rely on them as
    statements of fact.

Intel, Intel logo, Intel
    Inside, Intel Atom, Celeron, Intel Centrino, Intel Core, Intel
    vPro, Intel Xeon, Itanium, Moblin, and Pentium are trademarks of
    Intel Corporation in the U.S. and other countries.  

*   

Other names and brands may be claimed as the property of
    others.  

118

Table of Contents   

Schedule Of Valuation And Qualifying Accounts Disclosure

INTEL
    CORPORATION 
    SCHEDULE II VALUATION AND QUALIFYING ACCOUNTS  

December
    26, 2009, December 27, 2008, and December 29, 2007 
    (In Millions)  

1   

Deductions represent uncollectible accounts written off, net
    of recoveries.  

119

Table of Contents   

INDEX TO
    EXHIBITS  

120

Table of Contents   

121

Table of Contents   

122

Table of Contents   

Incorporated by Reference 

Exhibit 

Filing 

Filed 

Number 

Exhibit Description 

Form 

File Number 

Exhibit 

Date 

Herewith 

10

.48**

Standard Terms and Conditions relating to Restricted Stock Units
    granted on and after January 22, 2010 under the Intel
    Corporation Equity Incentive Plan (standard OSU program)

X

10

.49**

Intel Corporation Restricted Stock Unit Agreement under the
    Intel Corporation 2006 Equity Incentive Plan (for RSUs granted
    after January 22, 2010 under the standard OSU program)

X

10

.50**

Standard Terms and Conditions relating to Non-Qualified Stock
    Options granted to A. Douglas Melamed on January 22, 2010 under
    the Intel Corporation 2006 Equity Incentive Plan (standard
    option program)

X

10

.51

Settlement Agreement Between Advanced Micro Devices, Inc. and
    Intel Corporation, dated November 11, 2009

8-K

000-06217

10.1

11/12/09

12

.1

Statement Setting Forth the Computation of Ratios of Earnings to
    Fixed Charges

X

21

.1

Intel Corporation Subsidiaries

X

23

.1

Consent of Ernst   Young LLP, Independent Registered Public
    Accounting Firm

X

31

.1

Certification of Chief Executive Officer pursuant to Rule
     13a-14(a)  of
    the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (the Exchange
    Act)

X

31

.2

Certification of Chief Financial Officer and Principal
    Accounting Officer pursuant to Rule
     13a-14(a)  of
    the Exchange Act

X

32

.1

Certification of the Chief Executive Officer and the Chief
    Financial Officer and Principal Accounting Officer pursuant to
    Rule
     13a-14(b)  of
    the Exchange Act and 18 U.S.C. Section 1350, as adopted pursuant
    to Section 906 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002

X

101

.INS

XBRL Instance Document

X

101

.SCH

XBRL Taxonomy Extension Schema Document

X

101

.CAL

XBRL Taxonomy Extension Calculation Linkbase Document

X

101

.DEF

XBRL Taxonomy Extension Definition Linkbase Document

X

101

.LAB

XBRL Taxonomy Extension Label Linkbase Document

X

101

.PRE

XBRL Taxonomy Extension Presentation Linkbase Document

X

**   

Management contracts or compensation plans or arrangements in
    which directors or executive officers are eligible to
    participate.  

123

Table of Contents   

SIGNATURES  

Pursuant to the requirements of
    Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the
    Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its
    behalf by the undersigned, thereunto duly authorized.

INTEL CORPORATION

Registrant

By: 

/s/   Stacy
    J. Smith 

Stacy J. Smith

Senior Vice President, Chief Financial Officer, and

Principal Accounting Officer

February 22, 2010

Pursuant to the requirements of
    the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, this report has been signed
    below by the following persons on behalf of the Registrant and
    in the capacities and on the dates indicated.

124

<EX-10.48>
 2
 f54119exv10w48.htm
 STANDARD TERMS AND CONDITIONS RELATING TO RESTRICTED STOCK UNITS GRANTED ON AND AFTER JANUARY 22, 2010 UNDER THE INTEL CORPORATION EQUITY INCENTIVE PLAN

exv10w48 

Exhibit
10.48

INTEL CONFIDENTIAL 

INTEL CORPORATION 
2006 EQUITY INCENTIVE PLAN 

STANDARD TERMS AND CONDITIONS RELATING TO RESTRICTED STOCK UNITS GRANTED ON AND AFTER
January 22, 2010 UNDER THE INTEL CORPORATION 2006 EQUITY INCENTIVE PLAN (standard OSU program)  

1.  
       
      TERMS OF RESTRICTED STOCK UNIT  

Unless provided otherwise in the Notice of Grant, these standard terms and conditions
( Standard Terms ) apply to Restricted Stock Units ( RSUs ) granted to you, a U.S. employee,
under the Intel Corporation 2006 Equity Incentive Plan (the  2006 Plan ). Your Notice of
Grant, these Standard Terms and the 2006 Plan constitute the entire understanding between
you and Intel Corporation (the  Corporation ) regarding the RSUs identified in your Notice
of Grant. 

2.  
       
      VESTING OF RSUs  

Provided that you remain continuously employed by the Corporation or a Subsidiary on a full
time basis from the Grant Date specified in the Notice of Grant through the vesting date
specified in the Notice of Grant, then as of the vesting date the RSUs shall vest and be
converted into the right to receive the number of shares of the Corporation s Common Stock,
$.001 par value (the  Common Stock ), determined by multiplying the Target Number of Shares
as specified on the Notice of Grant by the conversion rate as set forth below, and except as
otherwise provided in these Standard Terms. If a vesting date falls on a weekend or any
other day on which the NASDAQ Stock Market ( NASDAQ ) is not open, affected RSUs shall vest
on the next following NASDAQ business day. 

RSUs will vest to the extent provided in and in accordance with the terms of the Notice of
Grant and these Standard Terms. If your status as an Employee terminates for any reason
except death, Disablement (defined below) or Retirement (defined below), prior to the
vesting date set forth in your Notice of Grant, your unvested RSUs and dividend equivalents
will be cancelled. 

3.  
       
      CONVERSION OF RSUs  

The conversion rate of RSUs into the right to receive a number of shares of Common Stock
depends on the Corporation s Total Stockholder Return ( Intel TSR ) relative to the Total
Stockholder Return of the Comparison Group ( CG TSR ) at the end of the Performance Period,
as those terms are defined below. The minimum conversion rate shall be 33% of the Target
Number of Shares as specified on the Notice of Grant and the maximum conversion rate shall
be 200% of the Target Number of Shares as specified on the Notice of Grant. If the
Intel TSR and CG TSR are within 1 percentage point, the conversion rate shall be 100%. If
the Intel TSR is less than the CG TSR, the conversion rate shall be 

INTEL CONFIDENTIAL 

100% minus two times the
difference in percentage points. If the Intel TSR is greater than the CG TSR, the
conversion rate shall be 100% plus three times the difference in percentage points. In the
event that the conversion rate results in the right to receive a partial share of Common
Stock, the conversion rate shall be rounded down so that the RSUs shall not convert into the
right to receive the partial share. 

By way of illustration, assume the CG TSR is 100%. If the Intel TSR equals 100.5%, the
conversion rate is 100%, so that your RSUs convert into the right to receive 100% of the
Target Number of Shares. If the Intel TSR is 90%, the difference is 10 percentage points
and the conversion rate is 80%, so that your RSUs convert into the right to receive 80% of
the Target Number of Shares. If the Intel TSR is 105%, the difference is 5 percentage
points and the conversion rate is 115%, so that your RSUs convert into the right to receive
115% of the Target Number of Shares. 

(a) 
       
     Intel TSR is a percentage (to the third decimal point) derived by: 

(1) 
       
     A numerator that is difference between the closing sale price
of Common Stock on the grant date subtracted from the average closing sale
price of Common Stock during the 6 months prior to the end of the Performance
Period, plus any dividends paid or payable with respect to a record date that
occurs during the Performance Period; and 

(2) 
       
     A denominator that is the closing sale price of Common Stock on
the grant date. 

(b) 
       
     CG TSR is the average of the Tech 15 TSR and the S P 100 TSR where: 

(1) 
       
     TSR of each stock is a. the difference between the closing sale
price on the grant date subtracted from the weighted average closing sale price
during the 6 months prior to the end of the Performance Period, plus any
dividends paid or payable with respect to a record date that occurs during the
Performance Period, divided (to the third decimal point) by b. the closing sale
price on the grant date; 

(2) 
       
     Tech 15 TSR is the median TSR of the fifteen technology
companies included in the Corporation s peer group for determining executive
compensation, as determined by the Compensation Committee prior to the grant
date, and regardless of any subsequent change after the grant date; 

(3) 
       
     S P 100 TSR is the median TSR of the companies included in the
Standard   Poor s 100 as of the grant date, minus the Corporation
(in the event the Corporation is included in the Standard   Poor s 

INTEL CONFIDENTIAL 

100),
regardless of any change in the makeup of Standard   Poor s 100 during the
Performance Period; and 

(c) 
       
     For purposes of determining TSR of any company (including the Corporation): 

(1) 
       
     Any dividend paid or payable in cash shall be valued at its
cash amount (without any deemed reinvestment). Any dividend paid in securities
with a readily ascertainable fair market value shall be valued at the market
value of the securities as of the dividend record date. Any dividend paid in
other property shall be valued based on the value assigned to such dividend by
the paying company for tax purposes. 

(2) 
       
     Any company included in the Tech 15 TSR or S P 100 TSR on the
grant date that does not have a stock price that is quoted on a national
securities exchange at the end of the Performance Period will be factored into
the median calculation based on its TSR from the grant date until the last date
on which its stock price was last quoted on a national securities exchange in
the United States. 

(d) 
       
     Performance Period is the period beginning with the grant date and ending three
years later on the third anniversary of the grant date. If the third anniversary of
the grant date falls on a weekend or any other day on which the NASDAQ is not open, the
Performance Period shall end on the next following NASDAQ business day. If for any
reason the Corporation (including any successor corporation) ceases to have its stock
price quoted on a national securities exchange, the Performance Period shall end as of
the last date that the stock price is quoted on a national securities exchange. 

4.  
       
      DIVIDEND EQUIVALENTS  

Dividend equivalents will vest at the same time as their corresponding RSUs and convert into
the right to receive shares of Common Stock. Dividend equivalents will be paid on the
number of shares of the Corporation s Common Stock into which this RSU is converted by
determining the sum of the dividends paid or payable on such number of shares of Common
Stock with respect to each record date that occurs between the Grant Date and the vesting
date specified in the Notice of Grant (without any interest or compounding), divided (to the
third decimal point) by the average of the highest and lowest sales prices of the Common
Stock as reported by NASDAQ on the last day of the Performance Period. The quotient derived
from the previous sentence shall be rounded down so that dividend equivalents will convert
into the right to receive whole shares of Common Stock. 

INTEL CONFIDENTIAL 

5.  
       
      SETTLEMENT INTO COMMON STOCK  

Shares of Common Stock will be issued or become free of restrictions as soon as practicable
following the vesting date of the RSUs and dividend equivalents, provided that you have
satisfied your tax withholding obligations as specified under Section 11 of these Standard
Terms and you have completed, signed and returned any documents and taken any additional
action that the Corporation deems appropriate to enable it to accomplish the delivery of the
shares of Common Stock. The shares of Common Stock will be issued in your name (or may be
issued to your executor or personal representative, in the event of your death or
Disablement), and may be effected by recording shares on the stock records of the
Corporation or by crediting shares in an account established on your behalf with a brokerage
firm or other custodian, in each case as determined by the Corporation. In no event will
the Corporation be obligated to issue a fractional share. 

Notwithstanding the foregoing, (i) the Corporation shall not be obligated to deliver any
shares of the Common Stock during any period when the Corporation determines that the
conversion of a RSU or the delivery of shares hereunder would violate any federal, state or
other applicable laws and/or may issue shares subject to any restrictive legends that, as
determined by the Corporation s counsel, is necessary to comply with securities or other
regulatory requirements, and (ii) the date on which shares are issued or credited to your
account may include a delay in order to provide the Corporation such time as it determines
appropriate to calculate Intel TSR and CG TSR, for the Committee (as defined below) to
certify performance results, to calculate and address tax withholding and to address other
administrative matters. The number of shares of Common Stock into which RSUs and dividend
equivalents convert as specified in the Notice of Grant shall be adjusted for stock splits
and similar matters as specified in and pursuant to the 2006 Plan. 

6.  
       
      SUSPENSION OR TERMINATION OF RSU FOR MISCONDUCT  

If at any time the Committee of the Board of Directors of the Corporation established
pursuant to the 2006 Plan (the  Committee ), including any Subcommittee or  Authorized
Officer  (as defined in Section 8. (a)(v) of the 2006 Plan) notifies the Corporation that
they reasonably believe that you have committed an act of misconduct as described in Section
8. (a)(v) of the 2006 Plan (embezzlement, fraud, dishonesty, nonpayment of any obligation
owed to the Corporation, breach of fiduciary duty or deliberate disregard of Corporation
rules resulting in loss, damage or injury to the Corporation, an unauthorized disclosure of
any Corporation trade secret or confidential information, any conduct constituting unfair
competition, inducing any customer to breach a contract with the Corporation or inducing any
principal for whom the Corporation acts as agent to terminate such agency relationship), the
vesting of your RSUs and dividend equivalents may be suspended pending a determination of
whether an act of misconduct has been committed. If the Corporation determines that you 

INTEL CONFIDENTIAL 

have committed an act of misconduct, all RSUs and dividend equivalents not vested as of the
date the Corporation was notified that you may have committed an act of misconduct shall be
cancelled and neither you nor any beneficiary shall be entitled to any claim with respect to
the RSUs and dividend equivalents whatsoever. Any determination by the Committee or an
Authorized Officer with respect to the foregoing shall be final, conclusive, and binding on
all interested parties. 

7.  
       
      TERMINATION OF EMPLOYMENT  

Except as expressly provided otherwise in these Standard Terms, if your employment by the
Corporation terminates for any reason, whether voluntarily or involuntarily, other than on
account of death, Disablement (defined below) or Retirement (defined below), all RSUs and
dividend equivalents not then vested shall be cancelled on the date of employment
termination, regardless of whether such employment termination is as a result of a
divestiture or otherwise. For purposes of this Section 7, your employment with any
partnership, joint venture or corporation not meeting the requirements of a Subsidiary in
which the Corporation or a Subsidiary is a party shall be considered employment for purposes
of this provision if either (a) the entity is designated by the Committee as a Subsidiary
for purposes of this provision or (b) you are specifically designated as an employee of a
Subsidiary for purposes of this provision. 

For purposes of this provision, your employment is not deemed terminated if, prior to sixty
(60) days after the date of termination from the Corporation or a Subsidiary, you are
rehired by the Corporation or a Subsidiary on a basis that would make you eligible for
future grants of Intel RSUs and dividend equivalents, nor would your transfer from the
Corporation to any Subsidiary or from any one Subsidiary to another, or from a Subsidiary to
the Corporation be deemed a termination of employment. 

8.  
       
      DEATH  

Except as expressly provided otherwise in these Standard Terms, if you die while employed by
the Corporation, your RSUs and dividend equivalents will become one hundred percent (100%)
vested. 

9.  
       
      DISABILITY  

Except as expressly provided otherwise in these Standard Terms, if your employment
terminates as a result of Disablement, your RSUs and dividend equivalents will become one
hundred percent (100%) vested upon the later of the date of your termination of employment
due to your Disablement or the date of determination of your Disablement. 

INTEL CONFIDENTIAL 

For purposes of this Section 9,  Disablement  shall be determined in accordance with the
standards and procedures of the then-current Long Term Disability Plan maintained by the
Corporation or the Subsidiary that employs you, and in the event you are not a participant
in a then-current Long Term Disability Plan maintained by the Corporation or the Subsidiary
that employs you,  Disablement  shall have the same meaning as disablement is defined in the
Intel Long Term Disability Plan, which is generally a physical condition arising from an
illness or injury, which renders an individual incapable of performing work in any
occupation, as determined by the Corporation. 

10.  
       
      RETIREMENT  

Except as expressly provided otherwise in these Standard Terms, if your employment
terminates as a result of Retirement, your RSUs and dividend equivalents will become one
hundred percent (100%) vested upon the date of your Retirement. For purposes of this
Section 10,  Retirement  shall mean: 

(a) 
       
     You terminate employment with the Corporation at or after age 60 ( Standard
Retirement  or 

(b) 
       
     You terminate employment with the Corporation and as of the termination date
your age plus years of service (in each case measured in complete, whole years) equals
or exceeds 75 ( Rule of 75 ). 

11.  
       
      TAX WITHHOLDING  

RSUs and dividend equivalents are taxable upon vesting based on the Market Value on the date
of vesting. To the extent required by applicable federal, state or other law, you shall
make arrangements satisfactory to the Corporation for the payment and satisfaction of any
income tax, social security tax, payroll tax, or payment on account of other tax related to
withholding obligations that arise by reason of vesting of a RSU and, if applicable, any
sale of shares of the Common Stock. The Corporation shall not be required to issue or lift
any restrictions on shares of the Common Stock pursuant to your RSUs and dividend
equivalents or to recognize any purported transfer of shares of the Common Stock until such
obligations are satisfied. 

Unless provided otherwise by the Committee, these obligations will be satisfied by the
Corporation withholding a number of shares of Common Stock that would otherwise be issued
under the RSUs and dividend equivalents that the Corporation determines has a Market Value
sufficient to meet the tax withholding obligations. In the event that the Committee
provides that these obligations will not be satisfied under the method described in the
previous sentence, you authorize UBS Financial Services Inc., or any successor plan
administrator, to sell a number of shares of Common Stock that are issued under the RSUs and
dividend equivalents, which the Corporation determines is sufficient to generate an amount
that meets the tax withholding obligations plus additional shares to 

INTEL CONFIDENTIAL 

account for rounding and market fluctuations, and to pay such tax withholding to the
Corporation. The shares may be sold as part of a block trade with other participants of the
2006 Plan in which all participants receive an average price. For this purpose,  Market
Value  will be calculated as the average of the highest and lowest sales prices of the
Common Stock as reported by NASDAQ on the day your RSUs and dividend equivalents vest. The
future value of the underlying shares of Common Stock is unknown and cannot be predicted
with certainty. 

You are ultimately liable and responsible for all taxes owed by you in connection with your
RSUs and dividend equivalents, regardless of any action the Corporation takes or any
transaction pursuant to this Section 11 with respect to any tax withholding obligations that
arise in connection with the RSUs and dividend equivalents. The Corporation makes no
representation or undertaking regarding the treatment of any tax withholding in connection
with the grant, issuance, vesting or settlement of the RSUs and dividend equivalents or the
subsequent sale of any of the shares of Common Stock underlying the RSUs and dividend
equivalents that vest. The Corporation does not commit and is under no obligation to
structure the RSU program to reduce or eliminate your tax liability. 

12.  
       
      RIGHTS AS A STOCKHOLDER AND RESTRICTIONS  

Your RSUs and dividend equivalents may not be otherwise transferred or assigned, pledged,
hypothecated or otherwise disposed of in any way, whether by operation of law or otherwise,
and may not be subject to execution, attachment or similar process. Any attempt to
transfer, assign, hypothecate or otherwise dispose of your RSUs and dividend equivalents
other than as permitted above, shall be void and unenforceable against the Corporation. 

You will have the rights of a stockholder only after shares of the Common Stock have been
issued to you following vesting of your RSUs and dividend equivalents and satisfaction of
all other conditions to the issuance of those shares as set forth in these Standard Terms.
RSUs and dividend equivalents shall not entitle you to any rights of a stockholder of Common
Stock and there are no voting or dividend rights with respect to your RSUs and dividend
equivalents. RSUs and dividend equivalents shall remain terminable pursuant to these
Standard Terms at all times until they vest and convert into shares. As a condition to
having the right to receive shares of Common Stock pursuant to your RSUs and dividend
equivalents, you acknowledge that unvested RSUs and dividend equivalents shall have no value
for purposes of any aspect of your employment relationship with the Corporation. 

Notwithstanding anything to the contrary in these Standard Terms or the applicable Notice of
Grant, your RSUs and dividend equivalents are subject to reduction by the Corporation if you
change your employment classification from a full-time employee to a part-time employee. 

INTEL CONFIDENTIAL 

RSUs and dividend equivalents are not part of your employment contract (if any) with the
Corporation, your salary, your normal or expected compensation, or other remuneration for
any purposes, including for purposes of computing severance pay or other termination
compensation or indemnity. 

13.  
       
      DISPUTES  

Any question concerning the interpretation of these Standard Terms, your Notice of Grant,
the RSUs or the 2006 Plan, any adjustments required to be made thereunder, and any
controversy that may arise under the Standard Terms, your Notice of Grant, the RSUs or the
2006 Plan shall be determined by the Committee (including any person(s) to whom the
Committee has delegated its authority) in its sole and absolute discretion. Such decision
by the Committee shall be final and binding unless determined pursuant to Section 15(f) to
have been arbitrary and capricious. 

14.  
       
      AMENDMENTS  

The 2006 Plan and RSUs and dividend equivalents may be amended or altered by the Committee
or the Board of Directors of the Corporation to the extent provided in the 2006 Plan. 

(a) 
       
     Certain capitalized terms used in these Standard Terms are defined in the 2006
Plan. Any prior agreements, commitments or negotiations concerning the RSUs and
dividend equivalents are superseded by these Standard Terms and your Notice of Grant.
You hereby acknowledge that a copy of the 2006 Plan has been made available to you. 

The grant of RSUs and dividend equivalents to an employee in any one year, or at any
time, does not obligate the Corporation or any Subsidiary to make a grant in any
future year or in any given amount and should not create an expectation that the
Corporation or any Subsidiary might make a grant in any future year or in any given
amount. 

(b) 
       
     To the extent that the grant of RSUs and dividend equivalents refers to the
Common Stock of Intel Corporation, and as required by the laws of your country of
residence or employment, only authorized but unissued shares thereof shall be utilized
for delivery upon vesting in accord with the terms hereof. 

(c) 
       
     Notwithstanding any other provision of these Standard Terms, if any changes in
the financial or tax accounting rules applicable to the RSUs and dividend equivalents
covered by these Standard Terms shall occur which, in the sole judgment of the
Committee, may have an adverse effect on the reported earnings, assets or liabilities
of the Corporation, the Committee may, in its sole discretion, modify these Standard
Terms or 

INTEL CONFIDENTIAL 

cancel and cause a forfeiture with respect to any unvested RSUs and dividend
equivalents at the time of such determination. 

(d) 
       
     Nothing contained in these Standard Terms creates or implies an employment
contract or term of employment upon which you may rely. 

(e) 
       
     Notwithstanding any provision of these Standard Terms, the Notice of Grant or
the 2006 Plan to the contrary, if, at the time of your termination of employment with
the Corporation, you are a  specified employee  as defined in Section 409A of the
Internal Revenue Code ( Code ), and one or more of the payments or benefits received or
to be received by you pursuant to the RSUs and dividend equivalents would constitute
deferred compensation subject to Section 409A, no such payment or benefit will be
provided under the RSUs until the earliest of (A) the date which is six (6) months
after your  separation from service  for any reason, other than death or  disability 
(as such terms are used in Section 409A(a)(2) of the Code), (B) the date of your death
or  disability  (as such term is used in Section 409A(a)(2)(C) of the Code) or (C) the
effective date of a  change in the ownership or effective control  of the Corporation
(as such term is used in Section 409A(a)(2)(A)(v) of the Code). The provisions of this
Section 15(e) shall only apply to the extent required to avoid your incurrence of any
penalty tax or interest under Section 409A of the Code or any regulations or Treasury
guidance promulgated thereunder. In addition, if any provision of the RSUs would cause
you to incur any penalty tax or interest under Section 409A of the Code or any
regulations or Treasury guidance promulgated thereunder, the Corporation may reform
such provision to maintain to the maximum extent practicable the original intent of the
applicable provision without violating the provisions of Section 409A of the Code. 

(f) 
       
     Because these Standard Terms relate to terms and conditions under which you may
be issued shares of Common Stock of Intel Corporation, a Delaware corporation, an
essential term of these Standard Terms is that it shall be governed by the laws of the
State of Delaware, without regard to choice of law principles of Delaware or other
jurisdictions. Any action, suit, or proceeding relating to these Standard Terms or the
RSUs and dividend equivalents granted hereunder shall be brought in the state or
federal courts of competent jurisdiction in the State of California. 

(g) 
       
     Copies of Intel Corporation s Annual Report to Stockholders for its latest
fiscal year and Intel Corporation s latest quarterly report are available, without
charge, at the Corporation s business office. 

(h) 
       
     Notwithstanding any other provision of these Standard Terms, if any changes in
law or the financial or tax accounting rules applicable to the RSUs and dividend
equivalents covered by these Standard Terms shall occur, the Corporation may, in its
sole discretion, (1) modify these 

INTEL CONFIDENTIAL 

Standard Terms to impose such restrictions or procedures with respect to the RSUs
and dividend equivalents (whether vested or unvested), the shares issued or issuable
pursuant to the RSUs and dividend equivalents and/or any proceeds or payments from
or relating to such shares as it determines to be necessary or appropriate to comply
with applicable law or to address, comply with or offset the economic effect to the
Corporation of any accounting or administrative matters relating thereto, or (2)
cancel and cause a forfeiture with respect to any unvested RSUs and dividend
equivalents at the time of such determination. 

</EX-10.48>

<EX-10.49>
 3
 f54119exv10w49.htm
 INTEL CORPORATION RESTRICTED STOCK UNIT AGREEMENT UNDER THE INTEL CORPORATION 2006 EQUITY INCENTIVE PLAN

exv10w49 

Exhibit
10.49

INTEL CONFIDENTIAL

INTEL CORPORATION 

RESTRICTED STOCK UNIT AGREEMENT 

UNDER THE 2006 EQUITY INCENTIVE PLAN 
(for RSUs granted after January 22, 2010 under the standard OSU program) 

1.  
       
      TERMS OF RESTRICTED STOCK UNIT  

This Restricted Stock Unit Agreement (this  Agreement ), the Notice of Grant delivered
herewith (the  Notice of Grant ) and the Intel Corporation 2006 Equity Incentive Plan (the
 2006 Plan ), as such may be amended from time to time, constitute the entire understanding
between you and Intel Corporation (the  Corporation ) regarding the Restricted Stock Units
( RSUs ) identified in your Notice of Grant. 

2.  
       
      VESTING OF RSUs  

Provided that you remain continuously employed by the Corporation or a Subsidiary on a full
time basis from the Grant Date specified in the Notice of Grant through the vesting date
specified in the Notice of Grant, then as of the vesting date the RSUs shall vest and be
converted into the right to receive the number of shares of the Corporation s Common Stock,
$.001 par value (the  Common Stock ), determined by multiplying the Target Number of Shares
as specified on the Notice of Grant by the conversion rate as set forth below, and except as
otherwise provided in this Agreement. If a vesting date falls on a weekend or any other day
on which the NASDAQ Stock Market ( NASDAQ ) is not open, affected RSUs shall vest on the
next following NASDAQ business day. 

RSUs will vest to the extent provided in and in accordance with the terms of the Notice of
Grant and this Agreement. If your status as an Employee terminates for any reason except
death, Disablement (defined below) or Retirement (defined below), prior to the vesting date
set forth in your Notice of Grant, your unvested RSUs and dividend equivalents will be
cancelled. 

3.  
       
      CONVERSION OF RSUs  

The conversion rate of RSUs into the right to receive a number of shares of Common Stock
depends on the Corporation s Total Stockholder Return ( Intel TSR ) relative to the Total
Stockholder Return of the Comparison Group ( CG TSR ) at the end of the Performance Period,
as those terms are defined below. The minimum conversion rate shall be 33% of the Target
Number of Shares as specified on the Notice of Grant and the maximum conversion rate shall
be 200% of the Target Number of Shares as specified on the Notice of Grant. If the Intel
TSR and CG TSR are within 1 percentage point, the conversion rate shall be 100%. If the
Intel TSR is less than the CG TSR, the conversion rate shall be 100% minus
two times the difference in percentage points. If the Intel TSR is greater than the CG TSR,
the conversion rate shall be 100% plus three times the difference in 

INTEL CONFIDENTIAL

percentage points. In
the event that the conversion rate results in the right to receive a partial share of Common
Stock, the conversion rate shall be rounded down so that the RSUs shall not convert into the
right to receive the partial share. 

By way of illustration, assume the CG TSR is 100%. If the Intel TSR equals 100.5%, the
conversion rate is 100%, so that your RSUs convert into the right to receive 100% of the
Target Number of Shares. If the Intel TSR is 90%, the difference is 10 percentage points
and the conversion rate is 80%, so that your RSUs convert into the right to receive 80% of
the Target Number of Shares. If the Intel TSR is 105%, the difference is 5 percentage
points and the conversion rate is 115%, so that your RSUs convert into the right to receive
115% of the Target Number of Shares. 

(a) 
       
     Intel TSR is a percentage (to the third decimal point) derived by: 

(1) 
       
     A numerator that is difference between the closing sale price of
Common Stock on the grant date subtracted from the average closing sale price of
Common Stock during the 6 months prior to the end of the Performance Period,
plus any dividends paid or payable with respect to a record date that occurs
during the Performance Period; and 

(2) 
       
     A denominator that is the closing sale price of Common Stock on
the grant date. 

(b) 
       
     CG TSR is the average of the Tech 15 TSR and the S P 100 TSR where: 

(1) 
       
     TSR of each stock is a. the difference between the closing sale
price on the grant date subtracted from the weighted average closing sale price
during the 6 months prior to the end of the Performance Period, plus any
dividends paid or payable with respect to a record date that occurs during the
Performance Period, divided (to the third decimal point) by b. the closing sale
price on the grant date; 

(2) 
       
     Tech 15 TSR is the median TSR of the fifteen technology companies
included in the Corporation s peer group for determining executive compensation,
as determined by the Compensation Committee prior to the grant date, and
regardless of any subsequent change after the grant date; 

(3) 
       
     S P 100 TSR is the median TSR of the companies included in the
Standard   Poor s 100 as of the grant date, minus the Corporation (in the event
the Corporation is included in the Standard   Poor s 100), regardless of any
change in the makeup of Standard   Poor s 100 during the Performance Period; and 

(c) 
       
     For purposes of determining TSR of any company (including the Corporation): 

INTEL CONFIDENTIAL

(1) 
       
     Any dividend paid or payable in cash shall be valued at its cash
amount (without any deemed reinvestment). Any dividend paid in securities with
a readily ascertainable fair market value shall be valued at the market value of
the securities as of the dividend record date. Any dividend paid in other
property shall be valued based on the value assigned to such dividend by the
paying company for tax purposes. 

(2) 
       
     Any company included in the Tech 15 TSR or S P 100 TSR on the
grant date that does not have a stock price that is quoted on a national
securities exchange at the end of the Performance Period will be factored into
the median calculation based on its TSR from the grant date until the last date
on which its stock price was last quoted on a national securities exchange in
the United States. 

(d) 
       
     Performance Period is the period beginning with the grant date and ending three
years later on the third anniversary of the grant date. If the third anniversary of
the grant date falls on a weekend or any other day on which the NASDAQ is not open, the
Performance Period shall end on the next following NASDAQ business day. If for any
reason the Corporation (including any successor corporation) ceases to have its stock
price quoted on a national securities exchange, the Performance Period shall end as of
the last date that the stock price is quoted on a national securities exchange. 

4.  
       
      DIVIDEND EQUIVALENTS  

Dividend equivalents will vest at the same time as their corresponding RSUs and convert into
the right to receive shares of Common Stock. Dividend equivalents will be paid on the
number of shares of the Corporation s Common Stock into which this RSU is converted by
determining the sum of the dividends paid or payable on such number of shares of Common
Stock with respect to each record date that occurs between the Grant Date and the vesting
date specified in the Notice of Grant (without any interest or compounding), divided (to the
third decimal point) by the average of the highest and lowest sales prices of the Common
Stock as reported by NASDAQ on the last day of the Performance Period. The quotient derived
from the previous sentence shall be rounded down so that dividend equivalents will convert
into the right to receive whole shares of Common Stock. 

5.  
       
      SETTLEMENT INTO COMMON STOCK  

Shares of Common Stock will be issued or become free of restrictions as soon as practicable
following the vesting date of the RSUs and dividend equivalents, provided that you have
satisfied your tax withholding obligations as specified under Section 11 of this Agreement
and you have completed, signed and returned any documents and taken any additional action
that the Corporation deems appropriate
to enable it to accomplish the delivery of the shares of Common Stock. The shares of Common
Stock will be issued in your name (or may be issued to your executor or personal
representative, in the event of your death or Disablement), and may be effected by recording
shares on the stock records of the Corporation or by crediting 

INTEL CONFIDENTIAL

shares in an account
established on your behalf with a brokerage firm or other custodian, in each case as
determined by the Corporation. In no event will the Corporation be obligated to issue a
fractional share. 

Notwithstanding the foregoing, (i) the Corporation shall not be obligated to deliver any
shares of the Common Stock during any period when the Corporation determines that the
conversion of a RSU or the delivery of shares hereunder would violate any laws of the United
States or your country of residence or employment and/or may issue shares subject to any
restrictive legends that, as determined by the Corporation s counsel, is necessary to comply
with securities or other regulatory requirements, and (ii) the date on which shares are
issued or credited to your account may include a delay in order to provide the Corporation
such time as it determines appropriate to calculate Intel TSR and CG TSR, for the Committee
(as defined below) to certify performance results, to calculate and address tax withholding
and to address other administrative matters. The number of shares of Common Stock into
which RSUs and dividend equivalents convert as specified in the Notice of Grant shall be
adjusted for stock splits and similar matters as specified in and pursuant to the 2006 Plan. 

6.  
       
      SUSPENSION OR TERMINATION OF RSU FOR MISCONDUCT  

If at any time the Committee of the Board of Directors of the Corporation established
pursuant to the 2006 Plan (the  Committee ), including any Subcommittee or  Authorized
Officer  (as defined in Section 8. (a)(v) of the 2006 Plan) notifies the Corporation that
they reasonably believe that you have committed an act of misconduct as described in Section
8. (a)(v) of the 2006 Plan (embezzlement, fraud, dishonesty, nonpayment of any obligation
owed to the Corporation, breach of fiduciary duty or deliberate disregard of Corporation
rules resulting in loss, damage or injury to the Corporation, an unauthorized disclosure of
any Corporation trade secret or confidential information, any conduct constituting unfair
competition, inducing any customer to breach a contract with the Corporation or inducing any
principal for whom the Corporation acts as agent to terminate such agency relationship), the
vesting of your RSUs and dividend equivalents may be suspended pending a determination of
whether an act of misconduct has been committed. If the Corporation determines that you have
committed an act of misconduct, all RSUs and dividend equivalents not vested as of the date
the Corporation was notified that you may have committed an act of misconduct shall be
cancelled and neither you nor any beneficiary shall be entitled to any claim with respect to
the RSUs and dividend equivalents whatsoever. Any determination by the Committee or an
Authorized Officer with respect to the foregoing shall be final, conclusive, and binding on
all interested parties. 

7.  
       
      TERMINATION OF EMPLOYMENT  

Except as expressly provided otherwise in this Agreement, if your employment by the
Corporation terminates for any reason, whether voluntarily or involuntarily, other than on
account of death, Disablement (defined below) or Retirement (defined below), all RSUs and
dividend equivalents not then vested shall be cancelled on the 

INTEL CONFIDENTIAL

date of employment
termination, regardless of whether such employment termination is as a result of a
divestiture or otherwise. For purposes of this Section 7, your employment with any
partnership, joint venture or corporation not meeting the requirements of a Subsidiary in
which the Corporation or a Subsidiary is a party shall be considered employment for purposes
of this provision if either (a) an the entity is designated by the Committee as a Subsidiary
for purposes of this provision or (b) you are specifically designated as an employee of a
Subsidiary for purposes of this provision. 

For purposes of this provision, your employment is not deemed terminated if, prior to sixty
(60) days after the date of termination from the Corporation or a Subsidiary, you are
rehired by the Corporation or a Subsidiary on a basis that would make you eligible for
future grants of Intel RSUs and dividend equivalents, nor would your transfer from the
Corporation to any Subsidiary or from any one Subsidiary to another, or from a Subsidiary to
the Corporation be deemed a termination of employment. 

8.  
       
      DEATH  

Except as expressly provided otherwise in this Agreement, if you die while employed by the
Corporation, your RSUs and dividend equivalents will become one hundred percent (100%)
vested. 

9.  
       
      DISABILITY  

Except as expressly provided otherwise in this Agreement, if your employment terminates as a
result of Disablement, your RSUs and dividend equivalents will become one hundred percent
(100%) vested upon the later of the date of your termination of employment due to your
Disablement or the date of determination of your Disablement. 

For purposes of this Section 9,  Disablement  shall be determined in accordance with the
standards and procedures of the then-current Long Term Disability Plan maintained by the
Corporation or the Subsidiary that employs you, and in the event you are not a participant
in a then-current Long Term Disability Plan maintained by the Corporation or the Subsidiary
that employs you,  Disablement  shall have the same meaning as disablement is defined in the
Intel Long Term Disability Plan, which is generally a physical condition arising from an
illness or injury, which renders an individual incapable of performing work in any
occupation, as determined by the Corporation. 

10.  
       
      RETIREMENT  

Except as expressly provided otherwise in these Standard Terms, if your employment
terminates as a result of Retirement, your RSUs and dividend equivalents will become one
hundred percent (100%) vested upon the date of your Retirement. For purposes of this
Section 10,  Retirement  shall mean: 

INTEL CONFIDENTIAL

(a) 
       
     You You terminate employment with the Corporation at or after age 60 ( Standard
Retirement  or 

(b) 
       
     You terminate employment with the Corporation and as of the termination date
when your age plus years of service (in each case measured in complete, whole years)
equals or exceeds 75 ( Rule of 75 ). 

11.  
       
      TAX WITHHOLDING  

RSUs and dividend equivalents are taxable upon vesting based on the Market Value in
accordance with the tax laws of the country where you are resident or employed. RSUs and
dividend equivalents are taxable in accordance with the existing or future tax laws of the
country where you are a resident or employed. If you are an U.S. citizen or expatriate, you
may also be subject to U.S. tax laws. 

To the extent required by applicable federal, state or other law, you shall make
arrangements satisfactory to the Corporation (or the Subsidiary that employs you, if your
Subsidiary is involved in the administration of the 2006 Plan) for the payment and
satisfaction of any income tax, social security tax, payroll tax, social taxes, applicable
national or local taxes, or payment on account of other tax related to withholding
obligations that arise by reason of granting of a RSU, vesting of a RSU or any sale of
shares of the Common Stock (whichever is applicable). 

The Corporation shall not be required to issue or lift any restrictions on shares of the
Common Stock pursuant to your RSUs and dividend equivalents or to recognize any purported
transfer of shares of the Common Stock until such obligations are satisfied. 

Unless provided otherwise by the Committee, these obligations will be satisfied by the
Corporation withholding a number of shares of Common Stock that would otherwise be issued
under the RSUs and dividend equivalents that the Corporation determines has a Market Value
sufficient to meet the tax withholding obligations. In the event that the Committee
provides that these obligations will not be satisfied under the method described in the
previous sentence, you authorize UBS Financial Services Inc., or any successor plan
administrator, to sell a number of shares of Common Stock that are issued under the RSUs and
dividend equivalents, which the Corporation determines is sufficient to generate an amount
that meets the tax withholding obligations plus additional shares to account for rounding
and market fluctuations, and to pay such tax withholding to the Corporation. The shares may
be sold as part of a block trade with other participants of the 2006 Plan in which all
participants receive an average price. For this purpose,  Market Value  will be calculated
as the average of the highest and lowest sales prices of the Common Stock as reported by
NASDAQ on the day your RSUs and dividend equivalents
vest. The future value of the underlying shares of Common Stock is unknown and cannot be
predicted with certainty. 

You are ultimately liable and responsible for all taxes owed by you in connection with your
RSUs and dividend equivalents, regardless of any action the Corporation 

INTEL CONFIDENTIAL

takes or any
transaction pursuant to this Section 11 with respect to any tax withholding obligations that
arise in connection with the RSUs and dividend equivalents. The Corporation makes no
representation or undertaking regarding the treatment of any tax withholding in connection
with the grant, issuance, vesting or settlement of the RSUs and dividend equivalents or the
subsequent sale of any of the shares of Common Stock underlying the RSUs and dividend
equivalents that vest. The Corporation does not commit and is under no obligation to
structure the RSU program to reduce or eliminate your tax liability. 

12.  
       
      RIGHTS AS A STOCKHOLDER  

Your RSUs and dividend equivalents may not be otherwise transferred or assigned, pledged,
hypothecated or otherwise disposed of in any way, whether by operation of law or otherwise,
and may not be subject to execution, attachment or similar process. Any attempt to
transfer, assign, hypothecate or otherwise dispose of your RSUs and dividend equivalents
other than as permitted above, shall be void and unenforceable against the Corporation. 

You will have the rights of a stockholder only after shares of the Common Stock have been
issued to you following vesting of your RSUs and dividend equivalents and satisfaction of
all other conditions to the issuance of those shares as set forth in this Agreement. RSUs
and dividend equivalents shall not entitle you to any rights of a stockholder of Common
Stock and there are no voting or dividend rights with respect to your RSUs and dividend
equivalents. RSUs and dividend equivalents shall remain terminable pursuant to this
Agreement at all times until they vest and convert into shares. As a condition to having
the right to receive shares of Common Stock pursuant to your RSUs and dividend equivalents,
you acknowledge that unvested RSUs and dividend equivalents shall have no value for purposes
of any aspect of your employment relationship with the Corporation. 

13.  
       
      DISPUTES  

Any question concerning the interpretation of this Agreement, your Notice of Grant, the RSUs
or the 2006 Plan, any adjustments required to be made thereunder, and any controversy that
may arise under this Agreement, your Notice of Grant, the RSUs or the 2006 Plan shall be
determined by the Committee (including any person(s) to whom the Committee has delegated its
authority) in its sole and absolute discretion. Such decision by the Committee shall be
final and binding unless determined pursuant to Section 16(e) to have been arbitrary and
capricious. 

14.  
       
      AMENDMENTS  

The 2006 Plan and RSUs and dividend equivalents may be amended or altered by the Committee
or the Board of Directors of the Corporation to the extent provided in the 2006 Plan. 

INTEL CONFIDENTIAL

15. DATA PRIVACY 

You explicitly and unambiguously consent to the collection, use and transfer, in electronic
or other form, of your personal data as described in this document by the Corporation for
the exclusive purpose of implementing, administering and managing your participation in the
2006 Plan.   

You hereby understand that the Corporation holds certain personal information about you,
including, but not limited to, your name, home address and telephone number, date of birth,
social insurance number or other identification number, salary, nationality, job title, any
shares of stock or directorships held in the Corporation, details of all RSUs or any other
entitlement to shares of stock awarded, canceled, exercised, vested, unvested or outstanding
in your favor, for the purpose of implementing, administering and managing the 2006 Plan
( Data ). You hereby understand that Data may be transferred to any third parties assisting
in the implementation, administration and management of the 2006 Plan, that these recipients
may be located in your country or elsewhere, and that the recipient s country may have
different data privacy laws and protections than your country. You hereby understand that
you may request a list with the names and addresses of any potential recipients of the Data
by contacting your local human resources representative. You authorize the recipients to
receive, possess, use, retain and transfer the Data, in electronic or other form, for the
purposes of implementing, administering and managing your participation in the 2006 Plan,
including any requisite transfer of such Data as may be required to a broker or other third
party with whom you may elect to deposit any shares of Common Stock acquired under your RSUs
and dividend equivalents. You hereby understand that Data will be held only as long as is
necessary to implement, administer and manage your participation in the 2006 Plan. You
hereby understand that you may, at any time, view Data, request additional information about
the storage and processing of Data, require any necessary amendments to Data or refuse or
withdraw the consents herein, in any case without cost, by contacting in writing your local
human resources representative. You hereby understand, however, that refusing or
withdrawing your consent may affect your ability to participate in the 2006 Plan. For more
information on the consequences of your refusal to consent or withdrawal of consent, you
hereby understand that you may contact the human resources representative responsible for
your country at the local or regional level.   

(a) 
       
     Certain capitalized terms used in this Agreement are defined in the 2006 Plan.
Any prior agreements, commitments or negotiations concerning the RSUs and dividend
equivalents are superseded by this Agreement and your Notice of Grant. You hereby
acknowledge that a copy of the 2006 Plan has been made available to you. 

INTEL CONFIDENTIAL

The grant of RSUs and dividend equivalents to an employee in any one year, or at any
time, does not obligate the Corporation or any Subsidiary to make a grant in any
future year or in any given amount and should not create an expectation that the
Corporation or any Subsidiary might make a grant in any future year or in any given
amount. 

(b) 
       
     To the extent that the grant of RSUs and dividend equivalents refers to the
Common Stock of Intel Corporation, and as required by the laws of your country of
residence or employment, only authorized but unissued shares thereof shall be utilized
for delivery upon vesting in accord with the terms hereof. 

(c) 
       
     Notwithstanding any other provision of this Agreement, if any changes in the
financial or tax accounting rules applicable to the RSUs and dividend equivalents
covered by this Agreement shall occur which, in the sole judgment of the Committee, may
have an adverse effect on the reported earnings, assets or liabilities of the
Corporation, the Committee may, in its sole discretion, modify this Agreement or cancel
and cause a forfeiture with respect to any unvested RSUs and dividend equivalents at
the time of such determination. 

(d) 
       
     Nothing contained in this Agreement creates or implies an employment contract
or term of employment upon which you may rely. 

(e) 
       
     Because this Agreement relates to terms and conditions under which you may be
issued shares of Common Stock of Intel Corporation, a Delaware corporation, an
essential term of this Agreement is that it shall be governed by the laws of the State
of Delaware, without regard to choice of law principles of Delaware or other
jurisdictions. Any action, suit, or proceeding relating to this Agreement or the RSUs
and dividend equivalents granted hereunder shall be brought in the state or federal
courts of competent jurisdiction in the State of California. 

(f) 
       
     Notwithstanding anything to the contrary in this Agreement or the applicable
Notice of Grant, your RSUs and dividend equivalents are subject to reduction by the
Corporation if you change your employment classification from a full-time employee to a
part-time employee. 

(g) 
       
     RSUs and dividend equivalents are not part of your employment contract (if any)
with the Corporation, your salary, your normal or expected compensation, or other
remuneration for any purposes, including for
purposes of computing severance pay or other termination compensation or indemnity. 

(h) 
       
     In consideration of the grant of RSUs and dividend equivalents, no claim or
entitlement to compensation or damages shall arise from termination of your RSUs and
dividend equivalents or diminution in value of the RSUs and 

INTEL CONFIDENTIAL

dividend equivalents or
Common Stock acquired through vested RSUs and dividend equivalents resulting from
termination of your active employment by the Corporation (for any reason whatsoever and
whether or not in breach of local labor laws) and you hereby release the Corporation
from any such claim that may arise; if, notwithstanding the foregoing, any such claim
is found by a court of competent jurisdiction to have arisen, then you shall be deemed
irrevocably to have waived your entitlement to pursue such claim. 

(i) 
       
     Notwithstanding any terms or conditions of the 2006 Plan to the contrary, in
the event of involuntary termination of your employment (whether or not in breach of
local labor laws), your right to receive the RSUs and dividend equivalents and vest in
RSUs and dividend equivalents under the 2006 Plan, if any, will terminate effective as
of the date that you are no longer actively employed and will not be extended by any
notice period mandated under local law ( e.g ., active employment would not include a
period of  garden leave  or similar period pursuant to local law); furthermore, in the
event of involuntary termination of employment (whether or not in breach of local labor
laws), your right to sell shares of Common Stock that converted from vested RSUs and
dividend equivalents after termination of employment, if any, will be measured by the
date of termination of your active employment and will not be extended by any notice
period mandated under local law. 

(j) 
       
     Notwithstanding any provision of this Agreement, the Notice of Grant or the
2006 Plan to the contrary, if, at the time of your termination of employment with the
Corporation, you are a  specified employee  as defined in Section 409A of the Internal
Revenue Code ( Code ), and one or more of the payments or benefits received or to be
received by you pursuant to the RSUs and dividend equivalents would constitute deferred
compensation subject to Section 409A, no such payment or benefit will be provided under
the RSUs and dividend equivalents until the earliest of (A) the date which is six (6)
months after your  separation from service  for any reason, other than death or
 disability  (as such terms are used in Section 409A(a)(2) of the Code), (B) the date
of your death or  disability  (as such term is used in Section 409A(a)(2)(C) of the
Code) or (C) the effective date of a  change in the ownership or effective control  of
the Corporation (as such term is used in Section 409A(a)(2)(A)(v) of the Code). The
provisions of this Section 16(j) shall only apply to the extent required to avoid your
incurrence of any penalty tax or interest under Section 409A of the Code or any
regulations or Treasury guidance promulgated thereunder. In addition, if any provision
of the RSUs would cause you to incur any penalty tax or interest under Section 409A of
the Code or any regulations or Treasury guidance promulgated thereunder, the
Corporation may reform such provision to maintain to the
maximum extent practicable the original intent of the applicable provision without
violating the provisions of Section 409A of the Code. 

(k) 
       
     Copies of Intel Corporation s Annual Report to Stockholders for its latest
fiscal year and Intel Corporation s latest quarterly report are available, without
charge, at the Corporation s business office. 

INTEL CONFIDENTIAL

(l) 
       
     Notwithstanding any other provision of this Agreement, if any changes in law or
the financial or tax accounting rules applicable to the RSUs and dividend equivalents
covered by this Agreement shall occur, the Corporation may, in its sole discretion, (1)
modify this Agreement to impose such restrictions or procedures with respect to the
RSUs and dividend equivalents (whether vested or unvested), the shares issued or
issuable pursuant to the RSUs and dividend equivalents and/or any proceeds or payments
from or relating to such shares as it determines to be necessary or appropriate to
comply with applicable law or to address, comply with or offset the economic effect to
the Corporation of any accounting or administrative matters relating thereto, or (2)
cancel and cause a forfeiture with respect to any unvested RSUs and dividend
equivalents at the time of such determination. 

</EX-10.49>

<EX-10.50>
 4
 f54119exv10w50.htm
 STANDARD TERMS AND CONDITIONS RELATING TO NON-QUALIFIED STOCK OPTIONS GRANTED TO A. DOUGLAS MELAMED ON JANUARY 22, 2010 UNDER THE INTEL CORPORATION 2006 EQUITY INCENTIVE PLAN

exv10w50 

Exhibit
10.50

INTEL CONFIDENTIAL

INTEL CORPORATION 
2006 EQUITY INCENTIVE PLAN 

STANDARD TERMS AND CONDITIONS RELATING TO NON-QUALIFIED STOCK OPTIONS GRANTED TO A.
DOUGLAS MELAMED ON JANUARY 22, 2010 UNDER THE INTEL CORPORATION 2006 EQUITY INCENTIVE PLAN
(standard option program)  

1.  
       
      TERMS OF OPTION  

The following standard terms and conditions ( Standard Terms ) apply to Non-Qualified Stock
Options granted to U.S. employees under the Intel Corporation 2006 Equity Incentive Plan
(the  2006 Plan ) (other than grants made under the SOP Plus or ELTSOP programs). 

2.  
       
      NONQUALIFIED STOCK OPTION  

The option is not intended to be an incentive stock option under Section 422 of the Internal
Revenue Code of 1986, as amended (the  Code ) and will be interpreted accordingly. 

3.  
       
      OPTION PRICE  

The exercise price of the option (the  option price ) is 100% of the market value of the
common stock of Intel Corporation ( Intel  or the  Corporation ), $.001 par value (the
 Common Stock ), on the date of grant, as specified in the Notice of Grant.  Market value 
means the average of the highest and lowest sales prices of the Common Stock as reported by
NASDAQ. 

4.  
       
      TERM OF OPTION AND EXERCISE OF OPTION  

To the extent the option has become exercisable (vested) during the periods indicated in the
Notice of Grant and has not been previously exercised, and subject to termination or
acceleration as provided in these Standard Terms and the requirements of these Standard
Terms, the Notice of Grant and the 2006 Plan, you may exercise the option to purchase up to
the number of shares of the Common Stock set forth in the Notice of Grant. Notwithstanding
anything to the contrary in Sections 6 through 9 hereof, no part of the option may be
exercised after seven (7) years from the date of grant. 

The process for exercising the option (or any part thereof) is governed by these Standard
Terms, the Notice of Grant, the 2006 Plan and your agreements with Intel s stock plan
administrator. Exercises of stock options will be processed as soon as practicable. The
option price may be paid (a) in cash, (b) by arrangement with Intel s stock plan
administrator which is acceptable to Intel
where payment of the option price is made pursuant to an irrevocable direction to the broker
to deliver all or part of the proceeds from the sale of the shares of the 

INTEL CONFIDENTIAL

Common Stock
issuable under the option to Intel, (c) by delivery of any other lawful consideration
approved in advance by the Committee of the Board of Directors of Intel established pursuant
to the 2006 Plan (the  Committee ) or its delegate, or (d) in any combination of the
foregoing. Fractional shares may not be exercised. Shares of the Common Stock will be
issued as soon as practicable. You will have the rights of a stockholder only after the
shares of the Common Stock have been issued. For administrative or other reasons, Intel may
from time to time suspend the ability of employees to exercise options for limited periods
of time. 

Notwithstanding the above, Intel shall not be obligated to deliver any shares of the Common
Stock during any period when Intel determines that the exercisability of the option or the
delivery of shares hereunder would violate any federal, state or other applicable laws. 

Notwithstanding anything to the contrary in these Standard Terms or the applicable Notice of
Grant, Intel may reduce your unvested options if you change classification from a full-time
employee to a part-time employee. 

IF AN EXPIRATION DATE DESCRIBED HEREIN FALLS ON A WEEKDAY, YOU MUST EXERCISE YOUR OPTIONS
BEFORE 3:45 P.M. NEW YORK TIME ON THE EXPIRATION DATE. 

IF AN EXPIRATION DATE DESCRIBED HEREIN FALLS ON A WEEKEND OR ANY OTHER DAY ON WHICH THE
NASDAQ STOCK MARKET ( NASDAQ ) IS NOT OPEN, YOU MUST EXERCISE YOUR OPTIONS BEFORE 3:45 P.M.
NEW YORK TIME ON THE LAST NASDAQ BUSINESS DAY PRIOR TO THE EXPIRATION DATE. 

5.  
       
      SUSPENSION OR TERMINATION OF OPTION FOR MISCONDUCT  

If you have allegedly committed an act of misconduct as defined in the 2006 Plan, including,
but not limited to, embezzlement, fraud, dishonesty, unauthorized disclosure of trade
secrets or confidential information, breach of fiduciary duty or nonpayment of an obligation
owed to the Corporation, an Authorized Officer, as defined in the 2006 Plan, may suspend
your right to exercise the option, pending a decision by the Committee (or Board of
Directors, as the case may be) or an Authorized Officer to terminate the option. The option
cannot be exercised during such suspension or after such termination. 

6.  
       
      TERMINATION OF EMPLOYMENT  

Except as expressly provided otherwise by these Standard Terms, if your employment by the
Corporation terminates for any reason, whether voluntarily or involuntarily, other than
death, Disablement (defined below), Retirement (defined
below) or discharge for misconduct, you may exercise any portion of the option that had
vested on or prior to the date of termination at any time prior to ninety 

INTEL CONFIDENTIAL

(90) days after
the date of such termination. The option shall terminate on the 90 th  day to the
extent that it is unexercised. If your employment terminates on or before the third
anniversary of your hire date, all unvested stock options shall be cancelled on the date of
employment termination, regardless of whether such employment termination is voluntary or
involuntary. If your employment terminates after the third anniversary of your hire date,
you will receive accelerated vesting on the remaining portion of the option that was
unvested on the day before the date of your employment termination. 

For purposes of this Section 6, your employment is not deemed terminated if, prior to sixty
(60) days after the date of termination from Intel or a Subsidiary, you are rehired by Intel
or a Subsidiary on a basis that would make you eligible for future Intel stock option
grants, nor would your transfer from Intel to any Subsidiary or from any one Subsidiary to
another, or from a Subsidiary to Intel be deemed a termination of employment. Further, your
employment with any partnership, joint venture or corporation not meeting the requirements
of a Subsidiary in which Intel or a Subsidiary is a party shall be considered employment for
purposes of this provision if either (a) the entity is designated by the Committee as a
Subsidiary for purposes of this provision or (b) you are designated as an employee of a
Subsidiary for purposes of this provision. 

7.  
       
      DEATH  

Except as expressly provided otherwise in by these Standard Terms, if you die while employed
by the Corporation, the executor of your will, administrator of your estate or any successor
trustee of a grantor trust may exercise the option, to the extent not previously exercised
and whether or not vested on the date of death, at any time prior to 365 days from the date
of death. 

Except as expressly provided otherwise in by these Standard Terms, if you die prior to
ninety (90) days after terminating your employment with the Corporation, the executor of
your will or administrator of your estate may exercise the option, to the extent not
previously exercised and to the extent the option had vested on or prior to the date of your
employment termination, at any time prior to 365 days from the date of your employment
termination. 

The option shall terminate on the applicable expiration date described in this Section 7, to
the extent that it is unexercised. 

8.  
       
      DISABILITY  

Except as expressly provided otherwise in these Standard Terms, following your termination
of employment due to Disablement, you may exercise the option, to the extent not previously
exercised and whether or not the option had vested on or prior to the date of employment
termination, at any time prior to 365 days from
the later of the date of your termination of employment due to your Disablement or the date
of determination of your Disablement as described in this Section  

INTEL CONFIDENTIAL

provided, however, that
while the claim of Disablement is pending, options that were unvested at termination of
employment may not be exercised and options that were vested at termination of employment
may be exercised only during the period set forth in Section 6 hereof. The option shall
terminate on the 365th day from the date of determination of Disablement, to the extent that
it is unexercised. For purposes of these Standard Terms,  Disablement  shall be determined
in accordance with the standards and procedures of the then-current Long Term Disability
Plan maintained by the Corporation or the Subsidiary that employs you, and in the event you
are not a participant in a then-current Long Term Disability Plan maintained by the
Corporation or the Subsidiary that employs you,  Disablement  shall have the same meaning as
disablement is defined in the Intel Long Term Disability Plan, which is generally a physical
condition arising from an illness or injury, which renders an individual incapable of
performing work in any occupation, as determined by the Corporation. 

9.  
       
      RETIREMENT  

For purposes of by these Standard Terms,  Retirement  shall mean either Standard Retirement
(as defined below) or the Rule of 75 (as defined below). Following your Retirement, the
vesting of the option, to the extent that it had not vested on or prior to the date of your
Retirement, shall be accelerated as follows: 

(a) 
       
     If you retire at or after age 60 ( Standard Retirement ), you will receive one
year of additional vesting from your date of Retirement for every five (5) years that
you have been employed by the Corporation (measured in complete, whole years). No
vesting acceleration shall occur for any periods of employment of less than five (5)
years; or 

(b) 
       
     If, when you terminate employment with Intel, your age plus years of service
(in each case measured in complete, whole years) equals or exceeds 75 ( Rule of 75 ),
you will receive accelerated vesting of any portion of the option that would have
vested prior to 365 days from the date of your Retirement. 

You will receive vesting acceleration pursuant to either Standard Retirement or the Rule of
75, but not both. Except as expressly provided otherwise in by these Standard Terms,
following your Retirement from the Corporation, you may exercise the option at any time
prior to 365 days from the date of your Retirement, to the extent that it had vested as of
the date of your Retirement or to the extent that vesting of the option is accelerated
pursuant to this Section 9. The option shall terminate on the 365 th  day from
your date of Retirement, to the extent that it is unexercised. 

10.  
       
      INCOME TAXES WITHHOLDING  

Nonqualified stock options are taxable upon exercise. To the extent required by applicable
federal, state or other law, you shall make arrangements satisfactory 

INTEL CONFIDENTIAL

to Intel for the
satisfaction of any withholding tax obligations that arise by reason of an option exercise
and, if applicable, any sale of shares of the Common Stock. Intel shall not be required to
issue shares of the Common Stock or to recognize any purported transfer of shares of the
Common Stock until such obligations are satisfied. The Committee may permit these
obligations to be satisfied by having Intel withhold a portion of the shares of the Common
Stock that otherwise would be issued to you upon exercise of the option, or to the extent
permitted by the Committee, by tendering shares of the Common Stock previously acquired. 

11.  
       
      TRANSFERABILITY OF OPTION  

Unless otherwise provided by the Committee, each option shall be transferable only 

(a) 
       
     pursuant to your will or upon your death to your beneficiaries, or 

(b) 
       
     by gift to your Immediate Family (defined below), partnerships whose only
partners are you or members of your Immediate Family, limited liability companies whose
only shareholders are you or members of your Immediate Family, or trusts established
solely for the benefit of you or members of your Immediate Family, or 

(c) 
       
     by gift to a foundation in which you and/or members of your Immediate Family
control the management of the foundation s assets. 

For purposes of these Standard Terms,  Immediate Family  is defined as your spouse or
domestic partner, children, grandchildren, parents, or siblings. 

With respect to transfers by gift under subsection (b), options are transferable whether
vested or not at the time of transfer. With respect to transfers by gift under subsection
(c), options are transferable only to the extent the options are vested at the time of
transfer. Any purported assignment, transfer or encumbrance that does not qualify under
subsections (a), (b) and (c) above shall be void and unenforceable against the Corporation. 

Any option transferred by you pursuant to this section shall not be transferable by the
recipient except by will or the laws of descent and distribution. 

The transferability of options is subject to any applicable laws of your country of
residence or employment. 

12.  
       
      DISPUTES  

The Committee or its delegate shall finally and conclusively determine any disagreement
concerning your option. 

INTEL CONFIDENTIAL

13.  
       
      AMENDMENTS  

The 2006 Plan and the option may be amended or altered by the Committee or the Board of
Directors of Intel to the extent provided in the 2006 Plan. 

14.  
       
      THE 2006 PLAN AND OTHER AGREEMENTS; OTHER MATTERS  

(a) 
       
     The provisions of these Standard Terms and the 2006 Plan are incorporated into
the Notice of Grant by reference. You hereby acknowledge that a copy of the 2006 Plan
has been made available to you. Certain capitalized terms used in these Standard Terms
are defined in the 2006 Plan. 

These Standard Terms, the Notice of Grant and the 2006 Plan constitute the entire
understanding between you and the Corporation regarding the option. Any prior
agreements, commitments or negotiations concerning the option are superseded. 

The grant of an option to an employee in any one year, or at any time, does not
obligate Intel or any Subsidiary to make a grant in any future year or in any given
amount and should not create an expectation that Intel or any Subsidiary might make
a grant in any future year or in any given amount. 

(b) 
       
     Options are not part of your employment contract (if any) with the Corporation,
your salary, your normal or expected compensation, or other remuneration for any
purposes, including for purposes of computing severance pay or other termination
compensation or indemnity. 

(c) 
       
     Notwithstanding any other provision of these Standard Terms, if any changes in
the financial or tax accounting rules applicable to the options covered by these
Standard Terms shall occur which, in the sole judgment of the Committee, may have an
adverse effect on the reported earnings, assets or liabilities of the Corporation, the
Committee may, in its sole discretion, modify these Standard Terms or cancel and cause
a forfeiture with respect to any unvested options at the time of such determination. 

(d) 
       
     Nothing contained in these Standard Terms creates or implies an employment
contract or term of employment upon which you may rely. 

(e) 
       
     To the extent that the option refers to the Common Stock of Intel Corporation,
and as required by the laws of your country of residence or
employment, only authorized but unissued shares thereof shall be utilized for
delivery upon exercise by the holder in accord with the terms hereof. 

(f) 
       
     Copies of Intel Corporation s Annual Report to Stockholders for its latest
fiscal year and Intel Corporation s latest quarterly report are available, without
charge, at the Corporation s business office. 

INTEL CONFIDENTIAL

(g) 
       
     Because these Standard Terms relate to terms and conditions under which you may
purchase Common Stock of Intel, a Delaware corporation, an essential term of these
Standard Terms is that it shall be governed by the laws of the State of Delaware,
without regard to choice of law principles of Delaware or other jurisdictions. Any
action, suit, or proceeding relating to these Standard Terms or the option granted
hereunder shall be brought in the state or federal courts of competent jurisdiction in
the State of California. 

(h) 
       
     Notwithstanding any other provision of these Standard Terms, if any changes in
the law or the financial or tax accounting rules applicable to the options covered by
these Standard Terms shall occur, the Corporation may, in its sole discretion, (1)
modify these Standard Terms to impose such restrictions or procedures with respect to
the options (whether vested or unvested), the shares issued or issuable pursuant to
this option and/or any proceeds or payments from or relating to such shares as it
determines to be necessary or appropriate to comply with applicable law or to address,
comply with or offset the economic effect to the Corporation of any accounting or
administrative matters relating thereto, or (2) cancel and cause a forfeiture with
respect to any unvested options at the time of such determination. 

</EX-10.50>

<EX-12.1>
 5
 f54119exv12w1.htm
 STATEMENT SETTING FORTH THE COMPUTATION OF RATIOS OF EARNINGS TO FIXED CHARGES

exv12w1 

Exhibit 12.1 

INTEL CORPORATION 2009 FORM 10-K 

STATEMENT SETTING FORTH THE COMPUTATION 
OF RATIOS OF EARNINGS TO FIXED CHARGES FOR INTEL CORPORATION 

(In Millions, Except Ratios)

1   
       
      After adjustments required by Item 503 (d) of the U.S. Securities and Exchange
Regulation S-K.  

2   
       
      Interest within provision for taxes on the consolidated statements of operations is
not included.  

</EX-12.1>

<EX-21.1>
 6
 f54119exv21w1.htm
 INTEL CORPORATION SUBSIDIARIES

exv21w1 

Exhibit 21.1 

INTEL CORPORATION  
 SUBSIDIARIES (All 100% Owned) 

Subsidiaries of the Registrant  
       
      State or Other Jurisdiction of Incorporation  

Componentes Intel de Costa Rica, S.A.

Costa Rica 

Intel Americas, Inc.

Delaware, U.S. 

Intel Asia Holding Limited

Hong Kong 

Intel Capital (Cayman) Corporation

Cayman Islands 

Intel Capital Corporation

Delaware, U.S. 

Intel Copenhagen ApS

Denmark 

Intel Corp (UK) Ltd.

England and Wales 

Intel Electronics Ltd.

Israel 

Intel Electronics Finance Limited

Cayman Islands 

Intel Europe, Inc.

California, U.S. 

Intel Holdings B.V.

Netherlands 

Intel International

California, U.S. 

Intel Ireland Limited

Cayman Islands 

Intel Israel (74) Limited

Israel 

Intel Israel Holdings B.V.

Netherlands 

Intel Kabushiki Kaisha

Japan 

Intel Malaysia Sdn. Berhad

Malaysia 

Intel Massachusetts, Inc.

Delaware, U.S. 

Intel Overseas Funding Corporation

Cayman Islands 

Intel Products (M) Sdn. Bhd.

Malaysia 

Intel Semiconductor Limited

Delaware, U.S. 

Intel Technology Sdn. Berhad

Malaysia 

Mission College Investments Ltd.

Cayman Islands 

Wind River Systems, Inc.

Delaware, U.S. 

</EX-21.1>

<EX-23.1>
 7
 f54119exv23w1.htm
 CONSENT OF ERNST & YOUNG LLP, INDEPENDENT REGISTERED PUBLIC ACCOUNTING FIRM

exv23w1 

Exhibit 23.1 

CONSENT OF ERNST   YOUNG LLP, INDEPENDENT REGISTERED PUBLIC ACCOUNTING FIRM

We consent to the incorporation by reference in the registration statements on Form S-8 (Nos.
33-33983, 33-63489, 333-24229, 333-45395, 333-67537, 333-34154, 333-36526, 333-39422, 333-42408,
333-46220, 333-49696, 333-57366, 333-59518, 333-59522, 333-59530, 333-63330, 333-115625,
333-124805, 333-135178, 333-135177, 333-143932, 333-125914, 333-141905, 333-160272, and
333-160824), Form S-4 (No. 333-158222), and Form S-3 (No. 333-157465) of Intel Corporation of our
reports dated February 22, 2010, with respect to the consolidated financial statements and schedule
of Intel Corporation, and the effectiveness of internal control over financial reporting of Intel
Corporation, included in this Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 26, 2009.

/s/ Ernst   Young LLP

San Jose, California 
February 22, 2010

</EX-23.1>

<EX-31.1>
 8
 f54119exv31w1.htm
 CERTIFICATION OF CEO PURSUANT TO RULE 13A-14(A) OF THE EXCHANGE ACT

exv31w1 

Exhibit 31.1 

The following certification includes references to an evaluation of the effectiveness of the design
and operation of the company s  disclosure controls and procedures  and to certain matters related
to the company s  internal control over financial reporting.  Item 9A of Part II of this Form 10-K
presents the conclusions of the CEO and the CFO about the effectiveness of our disclosure controls
and procedures and internal control over financial reporting based on and as of the date of such
evaluations (related to Item 4 of the certification), and contains additional information
concerning disclosures to our Audit Committee and independent auditors with regard to deficiencies
in internal control over financial reporting and fraud and related matters (Item 5 of the
certification).

CERTIFICATION 

I, Paul S. Otellini, certify that:

1. 
       
     I have reviewed this annual report on Form 10-K of Intel Corporation; 

2. 
       
     Based on my knowledge, this report does not contain any untrue statement of a material fact
or omit to state a material fact necessary to make the statements made, in light of the
circumstances under which such statements were made, not misleading with respect to the period
covered by this report; 

3. 
       
     Based on my knowledge, the financial statements, and other financial information included in
this report, fairly present in all material respects the financial condition, results of
operations and cash flows of the registrant as of, and for, the periods presented in this
report; 

4. 
       
     The registrant s other certifying officer(s) and I are responsible for establishing and
maintaining disclosure controls and procedures (as defined in Exchange Act Rules 13a-15(e) and
15d-15(e)) and internal control over financial reporting (as defined in Exchange Act Rules
13a-15(f) and 15d-15(f)) for the registrant and have: 

a) 
       
     Designed such disclosure controls and procedures, or caused such disclosure controls and
procedures to be designed under our supervision, to ensure that material information
relating to the registrant, including its consolidated subsidiaries, is made known to us by
others within those entities, particularly during the period in which this report is being
prepared; 

b) 
       
     Designed such internal control over financial reporting, or caused such internal control
over financial reporting to be designed under our supervision, to provide reasonable
assurance regarding the reliability of financial reporting and the preparation of financial
statements for external purposes in accordance with generally accepted accounting
principles; 

c) 
       
     Evaluated the effectiveness of the registrant s disclosure controls and procedures and
presented in this report our conclusions about the effectiveness of the disclosure controls
and procedures, as of the end of the period covered by this report based on such evaluation;
and 

d) 
       
     Disclosed in this report any change in the registrant s internal control over financial
reporting that occurred during the registrant s most recent fiscal quarter (the registrant s
fourth fiscal quarter in the case of an annual report) that has materially affected, or is
reasonably likely to materially affect, the registrant s internal control over financial
reporting; and 

5. 
       
     The registrant s other certifying officer(s) and I have disclosed, based on our most recent
evaluation of internal control over financial reporting, to the registrant s auditors and the
audit committee of the registrant s board of directors (or persons performing the equivalent
functions): 

a) 
       
     All significant deficiencies and material weaknesses in the design or operation of
internal control over financial reporting which are reasonably likely to adversely affect
the registrant s ability to record, process, summarize and report financial information; and 

b) 
       
     Any fraud, whether or not material, that involves management or other employees who have
a significant role in the registrant s internal control over financial reporting. 

Date: February 22, 2010  
     By:   
     /s/  Paul S. Otellini 

Paul S. Otellini  

President and Chief Executive Officer  

</EX-31.1>

<EX-31.2>
 9
 f54119exv31w2.htm
 CERTIFICATION OF CFO AND PAO PURSUANT TO RULE 13A-14(A) OF THE EXCHANGE ACT

exv31w2 

Exhibit 31.2 

The following certification includes references to an evaluation of the effectiveness of the design
and operation of the company s  disclosure controls and procedures  and to certain matters related
to the company s  internal control over financial reporting.  Item 9A of Part II of this Form 10-K
presents the conclusions of the CEO and the CFO about the effectiveness of our disclosure controls
and procedures and internal control over financial reporting based on and as of the date of such
evaluations (related to Item 4 of the certification), and contains additional information
concerning disclosures to our Audit Committee and independent auditors with regard to deficiencies
in internal control over financial reporting and fraud and related matters (Item 5 of the
certification).

CERTIFICATION 

I, Stacy J. Smith, certify that:

1. 
       
     I have reviewed this annual report on Form 10-K of Intel Corporation; 

2. 
       
     Based on my knowledge, this report does not contain any untrue statement of a material fact
or omit to state a material fact necessary to make the statements made, in light of the
circumstances under which such statements were made, not misleading with respect to the period
covered by this report; 

3. 
       
     Based on my knowledge, the financial statements, and other financial information included in
this report, fairly present in all material respects the financial condition, results of
operations and cash flows of the registrant as of, and for, the periods presented in this
report; 

4. 
       
     The registrant s other certifying officer(s) and I are responsible for establishing and
maintaining disclosure controls and procedures (as defined in Exchange Act Rules 13a-15(e) and
15d-15(e)) and internal control over financial reporting (as defined in Exchange Act Rules
13a-15(f) and 15d-15(f)) for the registrant and have: 

a) 
       
     Designed such disclosure controls and procedures, or caused such disclosure controls and
procedures to be designed under our supervision, to ensure that material information
relating to the registrant, including its consolidated subsidiaries, is made known to us by
others within those entities, particularly during the period in which this report is being
prepared; 

b) 
       
     Designed such internal control over financial reporting, or caused such internal control
over financial reporting to be designed under our supervision, to provide reasonable
assurance regarding the reliability of financial reporting and the preparation of financial
statements for external purposes in accordance with generally accepted accounting
principles; 

c) 
       
     Evaluated the effectiveness of the registrant s disclosure controls and procedures and
presented in this report our conclusions about the effectiveness of the disclosure controls
and procedures, as of the end of the period covered by this report based on such evaluation;
and 

d) 
       
     Disclosed in this report any change in the registrant s internal control over financial
reporting that occurred during the registrant s most recent fiscal quarter (the registrant s
fourth fiscal quarter in the case of an annual report) that has materially affected, or is
reasonably likely to materially affect, the registrant s internal control over financial
reporting; and 

5. 
       
     The registrant s other certifying officer(s) and I have disclosed, based on our most recent
evaluation of internal control over financial reporting, to the registrant s auditors and the
audit committee of the registrant s board of directors (or persons performing the equivalent
functions): 

a) 
       
     All significant deficiencies and material weaknesses in the design or operation of
internal control over financial reporting which are reasonably likely to adversely affect
the registrant s ability to record, process, summarize and report financial information; and 

b) 
       
     Any fraud, whether or not material, that involves management or other employees who have
a significant role in the registrant s internal control over financial reporting. 

Date: February 22, 2010  
     By:   
     /s/  Stacy J. Smith 

Stacy J. Smith  

Senior Vice President, Chief Financial Officer, and
Principal Accounting Officer  

</EX-31.2>

<EX-32.1>
 10
 f54119exv32w1.htm
 CERTIFICATION OF CEO AND CFO/PAO PURSUANT TO RULE 13A-14(B) OF THE EXCHANGE ACT

exv32w1 

Exhibit 32.1 

CERTIFICATION 

Each of the undersigned hereby certifies, for the purposes of section 1350 of chapter 63 of title
18 of the United States Code, as adopted pursuant to Section 906 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002,
in his capacity as an officer of Intel Corporation (Intel), that, to his knowledge, the Annual
Report of Intel on Form 10-K for the period ended December 26, 2009, fully complies with the
requirements of Section 13(a) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 and that the information
contained in such report fairly presents, in all material respects, the financial condition and
results of operations of Intel. This written statement is being furnished to the Securities and
Exchange Commission as an exhibit to such Form 10-K. A signed original of this statement has been
provided to Intel and will be retained by Intel and furnished to the Securities and Exchange
Commission or its staff upon request.

Date: February 22, 2010  
     By:   
     /s/  Paul S. Otellini 

Paul S. Otellini  

President and Chief Executive Officer  

Date: February 22, 2010  
     By:   
     /s/  Stacy J. Smith 

Stacy J. Smith  

Senior Vice President, Chief Financial Officer, and
Principal Accounting Officer  

</EX-32.1>

<EX-101.INS>
 11
 intc-20091226.xml
 EX-101 INSTANCE DOCUMENT

</EX-101.INS>

<EX-101.SCH>
 12
 intc-20091226.xsd
 EX-101 SCHEMA DOCUMENT

</EX-101.SCH>

<EX-101.CAL>
 13
 intc-20091226_cal.xml
 EX-101 CALCULATION LINKBASE DOCUMENT

</EX-101.CAL>

<EX-101.LAB>
 14
 intc-20091226_lab.xml
 EX-101 LABELS LINKBASE DOCUMENT

</EX-101.LAB>

<EX-101.PRE>
 15
 intc-20091226_pre.xml
 EX-101 PRESENTATION LINKBASE DOCUMENT

</EX-101.PRE>

<EX-101.DEF>
 16
 intc-20091226_def.xml
 EX-101 DEFINITION LINKBASE DOCUMENT

</EX-101.DEF>

