<Header>
<FileStats>
    <FileName>20110218_10-K_edgar_data_50863_0000950123-11-015783_1.txt</FileName>
    <GrossFileSize>30177902</GrossFileSize>
    <NetFileSize>412606</NetFileSize>
    <NonText_DocumentType_Chars>5680423</NonText_DocumentType_Chars>
    <HTML_Chars>1283167</HTML_Chars>
    <XBRL_Chars>6889928</XBRL_Chars>
    <XML_Chars>15415006</XML_Chars>
    <N_Tables>107</N_Tables>
    <N_Exhibits>12</N_Exhibits>
</FileStats>
<SEC-Header>
0000950123-11-015783.hdr.sgml : 20110218
<ACCEPTANCE-DATETIME>20110218172031
ACCESSION NUMBER:		0000950123-11-015783
CONFORMED SUBMISSION TYPE:	10-K
PUBLIC DOCUMENT COUNT:		19
CONFORMED PERIOD OF REPORT:	20101225
FILED AS OF DATE:		20110218
DATE AS OF CHANGE:		20110218

FILER:

	COMPANY DATA:	
		COMPANY CONFORMED NAME:			INTEL CORP
		CENTRAL INDEX KEY:			0000050863
		STANDARD INDUSTRIAL CLASSIFICATION:	SEMICONDUCTORS & RELATED DEVICES [3674]
		IRS NUMBER:				941672743
		STATE OF INCORPORATION:			DE
		FISCAL YEAR END:			1231

	FILING VALUES:
		FORM TYPE:		10-K
		SEC ACT:		1934 Act
		SEC FILE NUMBER:	000-06217
		FILM NUMBER:		11625475

	BUSINESS ADDRESS:	
		STREET 1:		2200 MISSION COLLEGE BLVD
		STREET 2:		RNB-4-151
		CITY:			SANTA CLARA
		STATE:			CA
		ZIP:			95054
		BUSINESS PHONE:		4087658080

	MAIL ADDRESS:	
		STREET 1:		2200 MISSION COLLEGE BLVD
		STREET 2:		RNB-4-151
		CITY:			SANTA CLARA
		STATE:			CA
		ZIP:			95054

</SEC-Header>
</Header>

 
Proc-Type: 2001,MIC-CLEAR
Originator-Name: webmaster@www.sec.gov
Originator-Key-Asymmetric:
 MFgwCgYEVQgBAQICAf8DSgAwRwJAW2sNKK9AVtBzYZmr6aGjlWyK3XmZv3dTINen
 TWSM7vrzLADbmYQaionwg5sDW3P6oaM5D3tdezXMm7z1T+B+twIDAQAB
MIC-Info: RSA-MD5,RSA,
 Mke2OZ8pMLNt4nc7os72ptIvKesTRSXXRwA3bw7Xd6xTKVgn4MP4uvemSd3S5mXg
 kkHi9+ewd6ViTtM1KBIuyA==

 0000950123-11-015783.txt : 20110218

10-K
 1
 f56033e10vk.htm
 FORM 10-K

e10vk 

Table of Contents   

UNITED STATES SECURITIES AND
    EXCHANGE COMMISSION  

Washington, D.C.
    20549  

FORM
     10-K   

(Mark One)

For
    the fiscal year ended December 25, 2010.  

or 

For
    the transition period from
                          
    to
                          . 

Commission File Number
     000-06217  

INTEL CORPORATION  

(Exact name of registrant as specified in its charter)

Registrant s telephone number, including area code  (408)
     765-8080  
     Securities registered pursuant to Section 12(b) of the Act:

Title of each class 

Name of each exchange on which registered 

Common stock, $0.001 par value

The NASDAQ Global Select Market*

Securities registered pursuant to Section 12(g) of the Act:

None

Indicate by check mark if the
    registrant is a well-known seasoned issuer, as defined in Rule
    405 of the Securities
    Act.  Yes         No      

Indicate by check mark if the
    registrant is not required to file reports pursuant to Section
    13 or Section 15(d) of the
    Act.  Yes         No      

Indicate by check mark whether the
    registrant (1) has filed all reports required to be filed by
    Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934
    during the preceding 12 months (or for such shorter period that
    the registrant was required to file such reports), and (2) has
    been subject to such filing requirements for the past 90
    days.  Yes         No      

Indicate by check mark whether the
    registrant has submitted electronically and posted on its
    corporate Web site, if any, every Interactive Data File required
    to be submitted and posted pursuant to Rule 405 of Regulation
     S-T 
    (  232.405 of this chapter) during the preceding 12
    months (or for such shorter period that the registrant was
    required to submit and post such
    files).  Yes         No      

Indicate by check mark if
    disclosure of delinquent filers pursuant to Item 405 of
    Regulation
     S-K 
    ( 229.405 of this chapter) is not contained herein, and
    will not be contained, to the best of registrant s
    knowledge, in definitive proxy or information statements
    incorporated by reference in Part III of this Form
     10-K  or any
    amendment to this Form
     10-K.        

Indicate by check mark whether the
    registrant is a large accelerated filer, an accelerated filer, a
    non-accelerated filer, or a smaller reporting company. See the
    definitions of  large accelerated filer, 
     accelerated filer  and  smaller reporting
    company  in Rule
     12b-2  of the
    Exchange Act.

Large accelerated
    filer     

Accelerated
    filer     

Non-accelerated
    filer      
      (Do not check if a smaller
    reporting company)

Smaller reporting
    company     

Indicate by check mark whether the
    registrant is a shell company (as defined in Rule
     12b-2  of the
    Act).  Yes         No      

Aggregate market value of voting
    and non-voting common equity held by non-affiliates of the
    registrant as of June 25, 2010, based upon the closing price of
    the common stock as reported by The NASDAQ Global Select Market*
    on such date, was

$111.5 billion

5,488 million shares of common stock outstanding as of February
    4, 2011

DOCUMENTS
    INCORPORATED BY REFERENCE  

Portions of the registrant s
    Proxy Statement related to its 2011 Annual Stockholders 
    Meeting to be filed subsequently Part III of this Form
     10-K. 

INTEL
    CORPORATION 

FORM
     10-K  

FOR THE
    FISCAL YEAR ENDED DECEMBER 25, 2010 

INDEX  

Page 

PART I  

Item 1. 

Business 

1

Item 1A. 

Risk Factors 

14

Item 1B. 

Unresolved Staff Comments 

20

Item 2. 

Properties 

20

Item 3. 

Legal Proceedings 

20

PART II  

Item 5. 

Market for Registrant s Common Equity,
    Related Stockholder Matters and Issuer Purchases of Equity
    Securities 

21

Item 6. 

Selected Financial Data 

23

Item 7. 

Management s Discussion and Analysis of
    Financial Condition and Results of Operations 

24

Item 7A. 

Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About
    Market Risk 

45

Item 8. 

Financial Statements and Supplementary Data 

47

Item 9. 

Changes in and Disagreements With Accountants on
    Accounting and Financial Disclosure 

108

Item 9A. 

Controls and Procedures 

108

Item 9B. 

Other Information 

108

PART III  

Item 10. 

Directors, Executive Officers and Corporate
    Governance 

109

Item 11. 

Executive Compensation 

109

Item 12. 

Security Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owners
    and Management and Related Stockholder Matters 

109

Item 13. 

Certain Relationships and Related Transactions,
    and Director Independence 

109

Item 14. 

Principal Accounting Fees and Services 

109

PART IV  

Item 15. 

Exhibits, Financial Statement Schedules 

110

Table of Contents   

PART
    I  

ITEM
    1.        

BUSINESS  

Company
    Overview  

We are the world s largest semiconductor chip maker, based
    on revenue. We develop advanced integrated digital technology,
    primarily integrated circuits, for industries such as computing
    and communications. Integrated circuits are semiconductor chips
    etched with interconnected electronic switches. We also develop
    computing platforms, which we define as integrated hardware and
    software computing technologies that are designed to provide an
    optimized solution. Our goal is to be the preeminent computing
    solutions company that powers the worldwide digital economy. We
    are transforming from a company with a primary focus on the
    design and manufacture of semiconductor chips for PCs and
    servers to a computing company that delivers complete solutions
    in the form of hardware and software platforms and supporting
    services.

We were incorporated in California in 1968 and reincorporated in
    Delaware in 1989.

In the first quarter of 2011, we completed the acquisition of
    the Wireless Solutions (WLS) business of Infineon Technologies
    AG. See  Acquisitions and Strategic Investments  later
    in this section for a description of that business.

Distribution
    of Company Information  

Our Internet address is  www.intel.com . We publish
    voluntary reports on our web site that outline our performance
    with respect to corporate responsibility, including
    environmental, health, and safety (EHS) compliance.

We use our Investor Relations web site,  www.intc.com,  as
    a routine channel for distribution of important information,
    including news releases, analyst presentations, and financial
    information. We post filings as soon as reasonably practicable
    after they are electronically filed with, or furnished to, the
    U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC), including our
    annual and quarterly reports on Forms
     10-K  and
     10-Q 
    (including related filings in XBRL format) and current reports
    on Form  8-K; 
    our proxy statements; and any amendments to those reports or
    statements. All such postings and filings are available on our
    Investor Relations web site free of charge. In addition, our web
    site allows interested persons to sign up to automatically
    receive
     e-mail 
    alerts when we post news releases and financial information. The
    SEC s web site,  www.sec.gov,  contains reports, proxy
    and information statements, and other information regarding
    issuers that file electronically with the SEC. The content on
    any web site referred to in this Form
     10-K  is not
    incorporated by reference in this Form
     10-K  unless
    expressly noted.

Products  

We design and manufacture computing and communications
    components, such as microprocessors, chipsets, motherboards, and
    wireless and wired connectivity products. Our platforms
    incorporate software to enable and advance these components. We
    strive to optimize the overall performance of our products by
    improving energy efficiency, seamless connectivity to the
    Internet, and security features. Improved energy efficiency is
    achieved by lowering power consumption in relation to
    performance capabilities, and may result in longer battery life,
    reduced system heat output, power savings, and lower total cost
    of ownership. Increased performance can include faster
    processing performance and other improved capabilities, such as
    multithreading, multitasking, and processor graphics.
    Performance can also be improved by enhancing interoperability
    among devices, storage, manageability, utilization, reliability,
    and ease of use.

Our vision is to create a continuum of personal computing
    experiences based on
    Intel   

    architecture. This continuum would give consumers a set of
    secure, consistent, and personalized computing experiences with
    a variety of devices that connect to the Internet and each
    other. Our goal is to provide consistency and interoperability
    between devices that are connected seamlessly and require
    computing capability both locally and in cloud computing. Cloud
    computing is a group of linked servers that provides a variety
    of applications and data to users over the Internet.

Components   

Microprocessors  

A microprocessor the central processing unit (CPU) of a
    computer system processes system data and controls other
    devices in the system. We offer microprocessors with one or
    multiple processor cores designed for notebooks, netbooks,
    desktops, servers, workstations, storage products, embedded
    applications, communications products, consumer electronics
    devices, and handheld devices. Multi-core microprocessors can
    enable improved multitasking and energy-efficient performance by
    distributing computing tasks across two or more cores.

1

Table of Contents   

The majority of our microprocessors are manufactured using our
    32-nanometer (nm) second-generation Hi-k metal gate silicon
    process technology (32nm process technology). The use of Hi-k
    metal gate transistors increases performance while
    simultaneously reducing the leakage of electrical current. In
    December 2010, we introduced the 2nd generation
    Intel   

    Core  tm  

    processor family (formerly code-named Sandy Bridge), a new
    microarchitecture based on our 32nm process technology.
    Microarchitecture refers to the layout, density, and logical
    design of a microprocessor. Our 2nd generation Intel Core
    processor family incorporates features designed to increase
    performance and energy efficiency, such as:

Integrated processor graphics,  which allow for shared
    resources across processing cores and graphics architectures to
    enable optimal performance while saving power;

Intel    

     Advanced Vector Extensions , which allow for faster and
    simpler performance of computationally intensive tasks, such as
    digital photo editing, creation of music, and other content
    creation;

Intel    

     Turbo Boost Technology 2.0 , which automatically
    increases processor frequency when applications demand higher
    performance; and

Intel    

     Quick Sync Video,  which accelerates encoding,
    decoding, and transcoding features, such as conversion of media
    for portable players and online video-sharing services.

Our 2nd generation Intel Core processor family integrates
    graphics functionality onto the processor die. In contrast, some
    of our previous-generation 32nm processors have incorporated a
    separate 45nm graphics chip inside the processor package. We
    also offer graphics functionality as part of a separate chipset
    outside the processor package. Processor packages may also
    integrate the memory controller.

In addition, we offer and are continuing to develop System on
    Chip (SoC) products that integrate our core processing
    functionalities with other system components, such as graphics,
    audio, and video, onto a single chip to form a purpose-built
    solution. SoC products are designed to reduce total cost of
    ownership, and provide improved performance due to higher
    integration, lower power consumption, and smaller form factors.

Chipsets  

A chipset sends data between the microprocessor and input,
    display, and storage devices, such as the keyboard, mouse,
    monitor, hard drive or solid-state drive, and CD, DVD, or
    Blu-ray* drive. We offer chipsets designed for notebooks,
    netbooks, desktops, servers, workstations, storage products,
    embedded applications, communications products, consumer
    electronics devices, and handheld devices. Chipsets extend the
    audio, video, and other capabilities of many systems and perform
    essential logic functions, such as balancing the performance of
    the system and removing bottlenecks. Some chipsets may also
    include graphics functionality or both graphics functionality
    and a memory controller, for use with our microprocessors that
    do not integrate those system components.

Motherboards  

We offer motherboard products designed for our desktop, server,
    and workstation platforms. A motherboard is the principal board
    within a system, and typically contains the microprocessor,
    chipset, memory, and other components. The motherboard also has
    connectors for attaching devices to the bus, which is the
    subsystem that transfers data among various components of a
    computer.

Wireless
    and Wired Connectivity  

We offer wireless and wired connectivity products, including
    network adapters and embedded wireless cards, based on
    industry-standard protocols used to translate and transmit data
    across networks. Wireless connectivity products based on WiFi
    technology allow users to wirelessly connect to high-speed local
    area networks, typically within a close range. We have also
    developed wireless connectivity products for both mobile and
    fixed networks based on WiMAX, a standards-based wireless
    technology providing high-speed broadband connectivity that can
    link users and networks up to several miles apart.

Microprocessor
    and Platform Technologies   

We offer features to improve microprocessor and platform
    capabilities that can enhance system performance and the user
    experience. For example, we offer technologies that can help
    information technology managers maintain, manage, and protect
    enabled systems that are plugged into a power source and
    connected to a network, even if a computer is turned off or has
    a failed hard drive or operating system. We also offer
    technologies that can enable virtualization, in which a single
    computer system can function as multiple virtual systems by
    running multiple operating systems and applications.
    Virtualization can consolidate workloads and provide increased
    security and management capabilities. To take advantage of these
    and other features that we offer, a computer system must have a
    microprocessor that supports a chipset, BIOS (basic input/output
    system) that uses the technology, and software that is optimized
    for the technology. Performance will vary depending on the
    system hardware and software used. We also offer technology that
    enables each processor core to process two software tasks or
    threads simultaneously.

2

Table of Contents   

Additional
    Product Offerings   

We offer  NAND flash memory,  which is a specialized type
    of memory component primarily used in portable memory storage
    devices, digital camera memory cards, solid-state drives, and
    other devices. NAND flash memory retains information even when
    the power is off, and provides faster access to data than
    traditional hard drives. Because flash memory does not have any
    moving parts, it tolerates bumps and shocks better than devices
    such as rapidly spinning disk drives.

We offer certain  software products,  including operating
    systems, middleware, and tools used to develop, run, and manage
    a wide variety of enterprise, consumer, embedded, and handheld
    devices. In addition, we offer software development tools,
    designed to complement our latest hardware technologies, that
    help enable the creation of applications.

Revenue
    by Major Operating Segment   

Net revenue for the PC Client Group (PCCG) operating segment,
    the Data Center Group (DCG) operating segment, and the other
    Intel architecture (Other IA) operating segments is presented as
    a percentage of our consolidated net revenue. Other IA includes
    the Embedded and Communications Group, the Digital Home Group,
    and the Ultra-Mobility Group operating segments. All other
    includes the NAND Solutions Group, the Wind River Software
    Group, the Software and Services Group, and the Digital Health
    Group.

Percentage
    of Revenue by Major Operating Segment 
        (Dollars
    in Millions) 

Revenue from sales of microprocessors and revenue from sales of
    chipsets, motherboards, and other, presented as a percentage of
    our consolidated net revenue, were as follows:

Percentage
    of Revenue from Microprocessor Sales 
        (Dollars
    in Millions) 

For the PCCG and the DCG operating segments, the majority of
    revenue from sales of chipsets, motherboards, and other was from
    the sale of chipsets in all periods presented above.

3

Table of Contents   

For a description of all of our operating segments, see
     Note 30: Operating Segment and Geographic
    Information  in Part II, Item 8 of this Form
     10-K.  Below,
    we discuss the key products and processor technologies,
    including some key introductions, of our operating segments. For
    a discussion of our strategy, see  Strategy  in Part
    II, Item 7 of this Form
     10-K. 

PC
    Client Group   

The PC Client Group (PCCG) offers microprocessors and related
    chipsets designed for the notebook, netbook, and desktop market
    segments. In addition, PCCG offers motherboards designed for the
    desktop market segment and wireless connectivity products based
    on WiFi and WiMAX technologies.

We currently offer a range of microprocessors designed for the
    notebook, netbook, and desktop market segments that includes the:

Intel   

    Core  tm  

    i3 processor, designed to deliver the performance needed for
    multitasking;

Intel   

    Core  tm  

    i5 processor, designed to deliver performance for everyday
    applications, with the ability to boost the speed of PCs as
    needed for demanding tasks, such as playing games and photo
    editing;

Intel   

    Core  tm  

    i7 processor, designed to deliver performance for demanding
    tasks such as multimedia creation and editing, and intense
    gaming;

Intel   

    Core  tm  

    i7 processor Extreme Edition, designed to deliver performance
    for the most demanding applications such as high-performance
    gaming, high-definition content creation, and video encoding and
    editing;

Intel   

    Atom  tm  

    processor, designed for low-power, affordable Internet-focused
    devices; and

Previous-generation
    Intel   

    processors that are designed to deliver performance,
    reliability, and energy efficiency.

The various microprocessor packaging options and processor
    technologies that we offer provide our customers with the
    flexibility to develop a wide range of system designs and form
    factors. In the notebook market segment, we offer
    ultra-low-voltage processors designed for ultra-thin laptop
    computers. For the notebook and netbook market segments, we
    offer processor technologies designed to provide high
    performance with improved multitasking, offer power-saving
    features to improve battery life, enable smaller form factors,
    allow for wireless network connectivity, and improve boot times.
    For the notebook and desktop market segments, we offer
    Intel   

    vPro  tm  

    technology, which is designed to provide businesses with
    increased manageability, upgradeability, energy-efficient
    performance, and security while lowering the total cost of
    ownership.

With our microprocessors, we also offer related chipsets
    designed for the:

Notebook and netbook market segments, including Mobile
    Intel   

    6 Series Express Chipsets, Mobile
    Intel   

    5 Series Express Chipsets, Mobile
    Intel   

    4 Series Express Chipsets, Mobile
    Intel   

    900 Series Express Chipsets, and the
    Intel   

    NM10 Express Chipset; and

Desktop market segment, including
    Intel   

    6 Series Express Chipsets,
    Intel   

    5 Series Express Chipsets,
    Intel   

    4 Series Express Chipsets,
    Intel   

    3 Series Express Chipsets, and the
    Intel   

    NM10 Express Chipset.

Our new product offerings in 2010 and early 2011 include:

2nd generation
    Intel   

    Core  tm  

    processor family, including Intel Core i7 processors, Intel Core
    i5 processors, and Intel Core i3 processors, which incorporate
    features designed to increase performance and energy efficiency.
    These processors are supported by the new Intel 6 Series Express
    Chipset family.

Intel Core i7 processors, Intel Core i5 processors, and Intel
    Core i3 processors, manufactured using our 32nm process
    technology and including integrated high-definition graphics
    functionality. These processors are supported by the Intel 5
    Series Express Chipset family.

Six-core Intel Core i7 processor Extreme Edition featuring 12
    computing threads, designed for digital content creation,
     3-D 
    rendering, and high-performance gaming.

Intel Atom processors with integrated graphics functionality,
    designed to enable improved performance and smaller, more
    energy-efficient form factors.

Ultra-low-voltage processors manufactured using our 32nm process
    technology, and chipsets designed for ultra-thin laptop
    computers.

Intel   

    Centrino   

    wireless adapters, designed to offer high-speed and reliable
    connectivity, and consistent coverage, while consuming minimal
    power.

4

Table of Contents   

Data
    Center Group   

The Data Center Group (DCG) offers products that are
    incorporated into servers, storage, workstations, and other
    products that help make up the infrastructure for data center
    and cloud computing environments. DCG s products include
    microprocessors and related chipsets, and motherboards and wired
    connectivity devices.

Our current server, workstation, and storage microprocessor
    offerings include the
    Intel   

    Xeon   

    processor and the
    Intel   

    Itanium   

    processor. Our Intel Xeon processor family of products supports
    a range of entry-level to high-end technical and commercial
    computing applications such as Internet Protocol data centers.
    Our Intel Itanium processor family generally supports an even
    higher level of reliability and computing performance for data
    processing, and handling high transaction volumes and other
    compute-intensive applications for enterprise-class servers, as
    well as supercomputing solutions. Servers usually have multiple
    microprocessors or cores working together, manage large amounts
    of data, direct data traffic, perform complex transactions, and
    control central functions in local and wide area networks and on
    the Internet. Workstations typically offer higher performance
    than standard desktop PCs and are used for applications such as
    engineering design, digital content creation, and
    high-performance computing. Storage processors range from SoCs
    for low-cost storage systems to high-performance multi-core
    processors in mid- to high-end storage systems such as storage
    area networks.

Our new product offerings in 2010 and early 2011 include:

Quad-core Intel Itanium processors with enhanced scalability and
    reliability features, designed for mission-critical computing.

Dual-core and quad-core Intel Xeon processors designed for
    entry-level servers for small businesses and educational
    settings; six-core Intel Xeon processors designed for
    high-performing computing applications in science and financial
    services; and eight-core Intel Xeon processors designed for
    highly parallel, data-demanding, and mission-critical workloads.
    Many of these processors integrate security capabilities
    designed to enhance data integrity and server virtualization.

Other
    Intel Architecture Operating Segments   

Embedded
    and Communications Group  

The Embedded and Communications Group (ECG) offers highly
    scalable microprocessors, including Intel Atom processors, and
    chipsets for a growing number of embedded applications across
    numerous market segments, such as industrial, medical, and
    in-vehicle infotainment.

Our new product offerings in 2010 and early 2011 include:

Embedded Intel Core i7 processors, Intel Core i5 processors, and
    Intel Core i3 processors, all using our 32nm process technology
    and with integrated high-definition graphics functionality.
    These processors are supported by the Mobile Intel 5 Series
    Express Chipset family.

The first six-core Intel Xeon processor for the embedded
    computing segment, as well as quad-core processors that are
    built for thermally constrained environments.

Intel Atom processors designed for print imaging, digital
    security surveillance, in-vehicle infotainment systems, and
    other industrial applications.

Configurable Intel Atom processors that incorporate
    field-programmable gate arrays, designed to enable original
    equipment manufacturers (OEMs) to customize and differentiate
    their products.

Digital
    Home Group  

The Digital Home Group offers products for use in consumer
    electronics devices designed to access and share Internet,
    broadcast, optical media (CD, DVD, or Blu-ray), and personal
    content through a variety of linked digital devices within the
    home. We offer components for consumer electronics devices such
    as digital TVs, high-definition media players, cable modems, and
    set-top boxes, which receive, decode, and convert incoming data
    signals. In 2010, we introduced Intel Atom processors designed
    to enable seamless integration of Internet, television, and
    personal content with search capability.

Ultra-Mobility
    Group  

The Ultra-Mobility Group offers energy-efficient Intel Atom
    processors and related chipsets designed for the handheld market
    segment. In 2010, we introduced an Intel Atom processor-based
    platform that provides significantly lower power consumption
    compared to previous-generation Intel Atom processor-based
    platforms. The new platform is designed for a range of computing
    devices, including high-end smartphones and other mobile
    handheld products.

5

Table of Contents   

Other
    Operating Segments   

NAND
    Solutions Group  

The NAND Solutions Group offers NAND flash memory products
    primarily used in portable memory storage devices, digital
    camera memory cards, solid-state drives (SSDs), and other
    devices. Our SSDs, available in densities ranging from 32
    gigabytes (GB) to 250 GB, weigh less than traditional hard
    drives and are designed to enable faster boot times, lower power
    consumption, increased reliability, and improved performance.
    Our NAND flash memory products are manufactured by IM Flash
    Technologies, LLC (IMFT). See  Note 11: Equity Method and
    Cost Method Investments  in Part II, Item 8 of this Form
     10-K. 

In 2010 and early 2011, we introduced 40-GB, 120-GB, and 250-GB
    SSDs based on 34nm NAND flash technology, designed for laptop
    and desktop computers. In addition, we introduced 40-GB and
    80-GB small-form-factor SSDs based on 34nm NAND flash
    technology, designed for dual-drive notebooks and
     all-in-one 
    desktops and tablet computers.

Wind
    River Software Group  

The Wind River Software Group develops and licenses device
    software optimization products, including operating systems, for
    the needs of customers in the embedded and handheld market
    segments.

Manufacturing
    and Assembly and Test  

As of December 25, 2010, 61% of our wafer fabrication, including
    microprocessors and chipsets, was conducted within the U.S. at
    our facilities in Arizona, New Mexico, Oregon, and
    Massachusetts. The remaining 39% of our wafer fabrication was
    conducted outside the U.S. at our facilities in Israel, Ireland,
    and China. Our China facility began wafer manufacturing in the
    fourth quarter of 2010.

As of December 25, 2010, we primarily manufactured our products
    in wafer fabrication facilities at the following locations:

Products 

Wafer Size 

Process Technology 

Locations 

Microprocessors

300mm

32nm

Oregon, Arizona, New Mexico

Microprocessors

300mm

45nm

Israel, New Mexico

Chipsets and microprocessors

300mm

65nm

Ireland, Arizona, China

Chipsets and other products

300mm

90nm

Ireland

Chipsets and other products

200mm

130nm and above

Massachusetts, Ireland

As of December 25, 2010, the majority of our microprocessors
    were manufactured on 300mm wafers using our 32nm process
    technology. In the second half of 2011, we expect to begin
    manufacturing microprocessors using our 22nm process technology.
    As we move to each succeeding generation of manufacturing
    process technology, we incur significant
     start-up 
    costs to prepare each factory for manufacturing. However,
    continuing to advance our process technology provides benefits
    that we believe justify these costs. The benefits of moving to
    each succeeding generation of manufacturing process technology
    can include using less space per transistor, reducing heat
    output from each transistor,
     and/or 
    increasing the number of integrated features on each chip. These
    advancements can result in microprocessors that are higher
    performing, consume less power,
     and/or  cost
    less to manufacture.

We use third-party manufacturing companies (foundries) to
    manufacture wafers for certain components, including networking
    and communications products. In addition, we primarily use
    subcontractors to manufacture board-level products and systems,
    and purchase certain communications networking products from
    external vendors in the Asia-Pacific region.

Following the manufacturing process, the majority of our
    components are subject to assembly and test. We perform our
    components assembly and test at facilities in Malaysia, China,
    Costa Rica, and Vietnam. Our Vietnam facility began production
    in the first half of 2010. To augment capacity, we use
    subcontractors to perform assembly of certain products,
    primarily chipsets and networking and communications products.

Our NAND flash memory products are manufactured by IMFT, a NAND
    flash memory manufacturing company that we formed with Micron
    Technology, Inc. Our NAND flash memory products are manufactured
    by IMFT using 25nm, 34nm, or 50nm process technology. As of
    December 25, 2010, we were committed to purchase 49% of the
    manufactured output of IMFT. Assembly and test of NAND flash
    memory products is performed by Micron and other external
    subcontractors. See  Note 11: Equity Method and Cost Method
    Investments  in Part II, Item 8 of this Form
     10-K. 

Our employment practices are consistent with, and we expect our
    suppliers and subcontractors to abide by, local country law. In
    addition, we impose a minimum employee age requirement as well
    as progressive EHS requirements, regardless of local law.

6

Table of Contents   

We have thousands of suppliers, including subcontractors,
    providing our various materials and service needs. We set
    expectations for supplier performance and reinforce those
    expectations with periodic assessments. We communicate those
    expectations to our suppliers regularly and work with them to
    implement improvements when necessary. We seek, where possible,
    to have several sources of supply for all of these materials and
    resources, but we may rely on a single or limited number of
    suppliers, or upon suppliers in a single country. In those
    cases, we develop and implement plans and actions to reduce the
    exposure that would result from a disruption in supply. We have
    entered into long-term contracts with certain suppliers to
    ensure a portion of our silicon supply.

Our products are typically produced at multiple Intel facilities
    at various sites around the world, or by subcontractors who have
    multiple facilities. However, some products are produced in only
    one Intel or subcontractor facility, and we seek to implement
    action plans to reduce the exposure that would result from a
    disruption at any such facility. See  Risk Factors  in
    Part I, Item 1A of this Form
     10-K. 

Research
    and Development  

We are committed to investing in world-class technology
    development, particularly in the design and manufacture of
    integrated circuits. Research and development (R D)
    expenditures in 2010 were $6.6 billion ($5.7 billion in 2009 and
    2008).

Our R D activities are directed toward developing the
    technology innovations that we believe will deliver our next
    generation of products and platforms, which will in turn enable
    new form factors and usage models for businesses and consumers.
    Our R D activities range from designing and developing new
    products and manufacturing processes to researching future
    technologies and products.

We are focusing our R D efforts on advanced computing
    technologies, developing new microarchitectures, advancing our
    silicon manufacturing process technology, delivering the next
    generation of microprocessors and chipsets, improving our
    platform initiatives, and developing software solutions and
    tools to support our technologies. Our R D efforts enable
    new levels of performance and address areas such as energy
    efficiency, security, scalability for multi-core architectures,
    system manageability, and ease of use. We continue to make
    significant R D investments in the development of SoCs to
    enable growth in areas such as handheld devices, embedded
    applications, and consumer electronics. In addition, we continue
    to make significant investments in wireless technologies,
    graphics, and high-performance computing.

As part of our R D efforts, we plan to introduce a new
    microarchitecture for our notebook, desktop, and Intel Xeon
    processors approximately every two years and ramp the next
    generation of silicon process technology in the intervening
    years. We refer to this as our  tick-tock  technology
    development cadence. In 2010, we introduced our 2nd generation
    Intel Core microarchitecture, a new microarchitecture using our
    existing 32nm process technology. We are currently developing
    22nm process technology, our next-generation process technology,
    and expect to begin manufacturing products using that technology
    in the second half of 2011. Our leadership in silicon technology
    has enabled us to make  Moore s Law  a reality.
    Moore s Law predicted that transistor density on integrated
    circuits would double about every two years. Our leadership in
    silicon technology has also helped expand on the advances
    anticipated by Moore s Law by bringing new capabilities
    into silicon and producing new products and platforms optimized
    for a wider variety of applications.

Our R D model is based on a global organization that
    emphasizes a collaborative approach to identifying and
    developing new technologies, leading standards initiatives, and
    influencing regulatory policies to accelerate the adoption of
    new technologies. Our R D initiatives are performed by
    various internal business groups, and we centrally manage key
    cross-business group product initiatives to align and prioritize
    our R D activities across these groups. In addition, we may
    augment our R D initiatives by investing in companies or
    entering into agreements with companies that have similar
    R D focus areas. For example, we have an agreement with
    Micron for joint development of NAND flash memory technologies.

Employees  

As of December 25, 2010, we had 82,500 employees worldwide, with
    approximately 55% of those employees located in the U.S.

Sales and
    Marketing  

Customers   

We sell our products primarily to original equipment
    manufacturers (OEMs) and original design manufacturers (ODMs).
    ODMs provide design
     and/or 
    manufacturing services to branded and unbranded private-label
    resellers. In addition, we sell our products to other
    manufacturers, including makers of a wide range of industrial
    and communications equipment. Our customers also include those
    who buy PC components and our other products through
    distributor, reseller, retail, and OEM channels throughout the
    world.

7

Table of Contents   

Our worldwide reseller sales channel consists of thousands of
    indirect customers systems builders that purchase Intel
    microprocessors and other products from our distributors. We
    have a boxed processor program that allows distributors to sell
    Intel microprocessors in small quantities to these
    systems-builder customers; boxed processors are also available
    in direct retail outlets.

In 2010, Hewlett-Packard Company accounted for 21% of our net
    revenue (21% in 2009 and 20% in 2008) and Dell Inc. accounted
    for 17% of our net revenue (17% in 2009 and 18% in 2008). No
    other customer accounted for more than 10% of our net revenue.
    For information about revenue and operating income by operating
    segment, and revenue from unaffiliated customers by geographic
    region/country, see  Results of Operations  in Part
    II, Item 7 and  Note 30: Operating Segment and Geographic
    Information  in Part II, Item 8 of this Form
     10-K. 

Sales
    Arrangements   

Our products are sold through sales offices throughout the
    world. Sales of our products are typically made via purchase
    order acknowledgments that contain standard terms and conditions
    covering matters such as pricing, payment terms, and warranties,
    as well as indemnities for issues specific to our products, such
    as patent and copyright indemnities. From time to time, we may
    enter into additional agreements with customers covering, for
    example, changes from our standard terms and conditions, new
    product development and marketing, private-label branding, and
    other matters. Most of our sales are made using electronic and
    web-based processes that allow the customer to review inventory
    availability and track the progress of specific goods ordered.
    Pricing on particular products may vary based on volumes ordered
    and other factors. We also offer discounts, rebates, and other
    incentives to customers to increase acceptance of our products
    and technology.

Our products are typically shipped under terms that transfer
    title to the customer, even in arrangements for which the
    recognition of revenue and related costs of sales is deferred.
    Our standard terms and conditions of sale typically provide that
    payment is due at a later date, generally 30 days after shipment
    or delivery. Our credit department sets accounts receivable and
    shipping limits for individual customers to control credit risk
    to Intel arising from outstanding account balances. We assess
    credit risk through quantitative and qualitative analysis, and
    from this analysis, we establish credit limits and determine
    whether we will seek to use one or more credit support devices,
    such as obtaining some form of third-party guarantee or standby
    letter of credit, or obtaining credit insurance for all or a
    portion of the account balance if necessary. Credit losses may
    still be incurred due to bankruptcy, fraud, or other failure of
    the customer to pay. For information about our allowance for
    doubtful receivables, see  Schedule II Valuation and
    Qualifying Accounts  in Part IV of this Form
     10-K. 

Most of our sales to distributors are made under agreements
    allowing for price protection on unsold merchandise and a right
    of return on stipulated quantities of unsold merchandise. Under
    the price protection program, we give distributors credits for
    the difference between the original price paid and the current
    price that we offer. On most products, there is no contractual
    limit on the amount of price protection, nor is there a limit on
    the time horizon under which price protection is granted. The
    right of return granted generally consists of a stock rotation
    program in which distributors are able to exchange certain
    products based on the number of qualified purchases made by the
    distributor. We have the option to grant credit for, repair, or
    replace defective products, and there is no contractual limit on
    the amount of credit that may be granted to a distributor for
    defective products.

Distribution   

Distributors typically handle a wide variety of products,
    including those that compete with our products, and fill orders
    for many customers. We also utilize third-party sales
    representatives who generally do not offer directly competitive
    products but may carry complementary items manufactured by
    others. Sales representatives do not maintain a product
    inventory; instead, their customers place orders directly with
    us or through distributors. We have several distribution
    warehouses that are located in close proximity to key customers.

Backlog   

We do not believe that backlog as of any particular date is
    meaningful, as our sales are made primarily pursuant to standard
    purchase orders for delivery of products. Only a small portion
    of our orders is non-cancelable, and the dollar amount
    associated with the non-cancelable portion is not significant.

Seasonal
    Trends   

Our microprocessor sales generally have followed a seasonal
    trend. Historically, our sales have been higher in the second
    half of the year than in the first half of the year,
    accelerating in the third quarter and peaking in the fourth
    quarter. Consumer purchases of PCs have historically been higher
    in the second half of the year, primarily due to
     back-to-school 
    and holiday demand. In addition, purchases from businesses have
    also historically tended to be higher in the second half of the
    year.

8

Table of Contents   

Marketing   

Our corporate marketing objectives are to build a strong,
    well-known Intel corporate brand that connects with businesses
    and consumers, and to offer a limited number of meaningful and
    valuable brands in our portfolio to aid businesses and consumers
    in making informed choices about technology purchases. The Intel
    Core processor family and the Intel Atom,
    Intel   

    Pentium   ,

    Intel   

    Celeron   ,

    Intel Xeon, and Intel Itanium trademarks make up our processor
    brands.

We promote brand awareness and generate demand through our own
    direct marketing as well as co-marketing programs. Our direct
    marketing activities include television, print, and Internet
    advertising, as well as press relations, consumer and trade
    events, and industry and consumer communications. We market to
    consumer and business audiences, and focus on building awareness
    and generating demand for increased performance, improved energy
    efficiency, and other capabilities such as Internet connectivity
    and security.

Purchases by customers often allow them to participate in
    cooperative advertising and marketing programs such as the Intel
    Inside   

    Program. This program broadens the reach of our brands beyond
    the scope of our own direct marketing. Through the Intel Inside
    Program, certain customers are licensed to place Intel logos on
    computers containing our microprocessors and processor
    technologies, and to use our brands in their marketing
    activities. The program includes a market development component
    that accrues funds based on purchases and partially reimburses
    the OEMs for marketing activities for products featuring Intel
    brands, subject to the OEMs meeting defined criteria. These
    marketing activities primarily include television, print, and
    Internet marketing. We have also entered into joint marketing
    arrangements with certain customers.

Competition  

The semiconductor industry is dynamic, characterized by rapid
    advances in technology and frequent product introductions. As
    unit volumes of a product grow, production experience is
    accumulated and costs typically decrease, further competition
    develops, and prices decline. The life cycle of our products is
    very short, sometimes less than a year. These short product life
    cycles and other factors lead to frequent negotiations with our
    OEM customers, which typically are large, sophisticated buyers
    who are also operating in very competitive environments. Our
    ability to compete depends on our ability to navigate this
    environment, by improving our products and processes faster than
    our competitors, anticipating changing customer requirements,
    developing and launching new products and platforms, pricing our
    products competitively, and reducing average unit cost. See
     Risk Factors  in Part I, Item 1A of this Form
     10-K. 

Our products compete primarily based on performance, energy
    efficiency, features, price, quality, reliability, brand
    recognition, and availability. We are focused on offering
    innovative products and worldwide support for our customers at
    competitive prices, including providing improved
    energy-efficient performance, enhanced security, and Internet
    connectivity. We believe that our computing platforms, which we
    define as integrated hardware and software computing
    technologies that are designed to provide an optimized solution,
    provide us with a competitive advantage compared to components
    that are used separately.

We believe that our network of manufacturing facilities and
    assembly and test facilities gives us a competitive advantage.
    This network enables us to have more direct control over our
    processes, quality control, product cost, volume, timing of
    production, and other factors. These facilities require
    significant up-front capital spending and therefore make it
    difficult for us to reduce our costs in the short term. Many of
    our competitors do not own such facilities because they may not
    be able to afford to do so or because their business models
    involve the use of third-party foundries and assembly and test
    subcontractors for manufacturing and assembly and test. The
    third-party foundries and subcontractors may also offer
    intellectual property, design services, and other goods and
    services to our competitors. These  fabless 
    semiconductor companies include Broadcom Corporation, NVIDIA
    Corporation, QUALCOMM Incorporated, and VIA Technologies, Inc.
    Some of our competitors, such as Advanced Micro Devices, Inc.
    (AMD), own portions of such facilities through investment or
    joint-venture arrangements with other companies.

We plan to continue to cultivate new businesses and work with
    the computing and communications industries through standards
    bodies, trade associations, OEMs, ODMs, and independent software
    and operating system vendors to help align the industry to offer
    products that take advantage of the latest market trends and
    usage models. We frequently participate in industry initiatives
    designed to discuss and agree upon technical specifications and
    other aspects of technologies that could be adopted as standards
    by standards-setting organizations. Our competitors may also
    participate in the same initiatives and specification
    development. Our participation does not ensure that any
    standards or specifications adopted by these organizations will
    be consistent with our product planning.

9

Table of Contents   

Microprocessors   

We continue to be largely dependent on the success of our
    microprocessor business. Our ability to compete depends on our
    ability to deliver new microprocessor products with increased
    performance capabilities and improved energy-efficient
    performance at competitive prices. Some of our microprocessor
    competitors, such as AMD, market software-compatible products
    that compete with our processors. We also face competition from
    companies offering rival architecture designs, such as Cell
    Broadband Engine Architecture developed jointly by International
    Business Machines Corporation (IBM), Sony Corporation, and
    Toshiba Corporation; Power Architecture* offered by IBM; ARM*
    architecture developed by ARM Limited; and Sun Scalable
    Processor Architecture (SPARC*) offered by Oracle Corporation.
    In addition, NVIDIA has begun developing CPUs based on the ARM
    architecture to combine with its graphics processors and has
    shifted some of the workload traditionally performed by the
    microprocessor to its graphics processor.

AMD has been our primary competitor in the market segments for
    microprocessors used in notebooks, desktops, and servers, while
    companies using ARM-based designs are our primary competitors in
    the growing market segments for microprocessors used in handheld
    devices and tablets. Companies using ARM-based designs are also
    targeting the notebook, netbook, and server market segments. ARM
    does not manufacture microprocessors; they design and license
    semiconductor intellectual property and offer supporting
    software and services. Our ability to compete with ARM-based
    competitors depends on our ability to design and produce
    high-performance, energy-efficient microprocessors at
    competitive prices. It also requires us to develop a software
    ecosystem that appeals to end users and software developers. We
    have taken a number of steps to build this software ecosystem,
    including the development of MeeGo*, a Linux-based software
    platform that will run on multiple hardware platforms; acquiring
    McAfee, Inc., which we expect to complete in the first quarter
    of 2011, and Wind River Systems, Inc.; and creating the
    Intel   

    Atom  tm  

    Developer Program.

The following is a list of our main microprocessor competitors
    by market segment:

PC Client: AMD, QUALCOMM, and VIA

Server: AMD, IBM, and Oracle

Application
    Processors 1 :

    AMD, Broadcom, Freescale Semiconductor, Inc., MediaTek Inc.,
    NVIDIA, QUALCOMM, Samsung Electronics Co., Ltd.,
    STMicroelectronics N.V., and Texas Instruments Incorporated (TI)

Mobile Communications
    Processors 2 :

    MediaTek, QUALCOMM, ST-Ericsson N.V., and TI

1   

The application processors market segment includes
    microprocessors designed for embedded applications, consumer
    electronics devices, and tablets.  

2   

The mobile communications processors market segment includes
    microprocessors designed for handheld devices.  

Chipsets   

Our chipsets compete with chipsets produced by companies such as
    AMD (including chipsets marketed under the ATI Technologies,
    Inc. brand), Broadcom, NVIDIA, Silicon Integrated Systems
    Corporation, and VIA. We also compete with companies offering
    graphics components and other special-purpose products used in
    the notebook, netbook, desktop, and workstation market segments.
    One aspect of our business model is to incorporate improved
    performance and advanced properties into our microprocessors and
    chipsets, for which demand may increasingly be affected by
    competition from companies whose business models are based on
    dedicated chipsets and other components, such as graphics
    controllers.

Flash
    Memory   

Our NAND flash memory products currently compete with NAND
    products primarily manufactured by Hynix Semiconductor Inc.,
    Micron, Samsung, SanDisk Corporation, and Toshiba.

Connectivity   

We offer products designed for wireless and wired connectivity,
    and network processors. Our WiFi and WiMAX products currently
    compete with products manufactured by Atheros Communications,
    Inc., Broadcom, QUALCOMM, and other smaller companies.

Competition
    Lawsuits and Government Matters   

We are currently a party to lawsuits and government matters
    involving our competitive practices. See  Note 29:
    Contingencies  in Part II, Item 8 of this Form
     10-K. 

10

Table of Contents   

Acquisitions
    and Strategic Investments  

We expect to complete the acquisition of McAfee in the first
    quarter of 2011. McAfee is a provider of security products and
    services that help secure systems and networks. As a result of
    the acquisition, we expect to hire approximately 6,400 McAfee
    employees. McAfee s offerings will include endpoint
    security products, system security products, consumer security
    products, network security products, and risk and compliance
    products. Many of McAfee s products are offered under a
    software-as-a-service delivery model, an online console used to
    manage and update hardware and software, which reduces
    on-premise capital expenses. The anticipated acquisition of
    McAfee reflects our belief that security is a fundamental
    component of online computing. As we develop future products and
    services, security considerations will be as important as our
    continued focus on energy-efficient performance and Internet
    connectivity.

In the first quarter of 2011, we completed the acquisition of
    the WLS business of Infineon. As a result of the acquisition, we
    expect to hire approximately 3,700 employees from Infineon. The
    WLS business will operate as Intel Mobile Communications and
    offer mobile phone components such as baseband processors, radio
    frequency transceivers, and power management chips. In addition
    to managing the existing WLS business, the objective of the
    acquisition is to contribute to our strategy to provide
    solutions with Internet connectivity to a broad range of
    computing devices.

During 2009, we completed the acquisition of Wind River Systems,
    a vendor of software for embedded devices. The objective of the
    acquisition of Wind River Systems was to enable the introduction
    of products for the embedded and handheld market segments,
    resulting in benefits for our existing operations.

For further information, see  Note 15: Acquisitions 
    in Part II, Item 8 of this Form
     10-K. 

Intellectual
    Property and Licensing  

Intellectual property rights that apply to our products and
    services include patents, copyrights, trade secrets, trademarks,
    and maskwork rights. We maintain a program to protect our
    investment in technology by attempting to ensure respect for our
    intellectual property rights. The extent of the legal protection
    given to different types of intellectual property rights varies
    under different countries  legal systems. We intend to
    license our intellectual property rights where we can obtain
    adequate consideration. See  Competition  earlier in
    this section,  Risk Factors  in Part I, Item 1A, and
     Note 29: Contingencies  in Part II, Item 8 of this
    Form  10-K. 

We have filed and obtained a number of patents in the U.S. and
    other countries. While our patents are an important element of
    our success, our business as a whole is not significantly
    dependent on any one patent. Because of the fast pace of
    innovation and product development, our products are often
    obsolete before the patents related to them expire, and
    sometimes are obsolete before the patents related to them are
    even granted. As we expand our product offerings into new
    industries, we also seek to extend our patent development
    efforts to patent such product offerings. Established
    competitors in existing and new industries, as well as companies
    that purchase and enforce patents and other intellectual
    property, may already have patents covering similar products.
    There is no assurance that we will be able to obtain patents
    covering our own products, or that we will be able to obtain
    licenses from such companies on favorable terms or at all.

The majority of the software that we distribute, including
    software embedded in our component-level and system-level
    products, is entitled to copyright protection. To distinguish
    Intel products from our competitors  products, we have
    obtained certain trademarks and trade names for our products,
    and we maintain cooperative advertising programs with certain
    customers to promote our brands and to identify products
    containing genuine Intel components. We also protect certain
    details about our processes, products, and strategies as trade
    secrets, keeping confidential the information that we believe
    provides us with a competitive advantage.

Compliance
    with Environmental, Health, and Safety Regulations  

Our compliance efforts focus on monitoring regulatory and
    resource trends and setting company-wide performance targets for
    key resources and emissions. These targets address several
    parameters, including product design; chemical, energy, and
    water use; climate change; waste recycling; and emissions.

Intel focuses on reducing natural resource use, the solid and
    chemical waste by-products of our manufacturing processes, and
    the environmental impact of our products. We currently use a
    variety of materials in our manufacturing process that have the
    potential to adversely impact the environment and are subject to
    a variety of EHS laws and regulations. Over the past several
    years, we have significantly reduced the use of lead and
    halogenated flame retardants in our products and manufacturing
    processes.

11

Table of Contents   

We work with the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency (EPA),
    non-governmental organizations, OEMs, and retailers to help
    manage
     e-waste 
    (which includes electronic products nearing the end of their
    useful lives) and promote recycling. The European Union requires
    producers of certain electrical and electronic equipment to
    develop programs that allow consumers to return products for
    recycling. Many states in the U.S. have similar
     e-waste 
    take-back laws. Although these laws are typically targeted at
    the end electronic product and not the component products that
    Intel manufactures, the inconsistency of many
     e-waste 
    take-back laws and the lack of local
     e-waste 
    management options in many areas pose a challenge for our
    compliance efforts.

Intel seeks to reduce our global greenhouse gas emissions by
    investing in energy conservation projects in our factories and
    working with suppliers to improve energy efficiency. We take a
    holistic approach to power management, addressing the challenge
    at the silicon, package, circuit, micro/macro architecture,
    platform, and software levels. We recognize that climate change
    may cause general economic risk. For further information on the
    risks of climate change, see  Risk Factors  in Part I,
    Item 1A of this Form
     10-K.  We see
    the potential for higher energy costs driven by climate change
    regulations. This could include items applied to utilities that
    are passed along to customers, such as carbon taxes or costs
    associated with obtaining permits for our U.S. manufacturing
    operations, emission cap and trade programs, or renewable
    portfolio standards.

We are committed to sustainability and take a leadership
    position in promoting voluntary environmental initiatives and
    working proactively with governments, environmental groups, and
    industry to promote global environmental sustainability. We
    believe that technology will be fundamental to finding solutions
    to the world s environmental challenges, and we are joining
    forces with industry, business, and governments to find and
    promote ways that technology can be used as a tool to combat
    climate change.

We have been purchasing wind power and other forms of renewable
    energy at some of our major sites for several years. At the
    beginning of 2008, we announced plans to purchase renewable
    energy certificates under a multi-year contract. The purchase
    has placed Intel at the top of the EPA s Green Power
    Partnership for the past three years and was intended to help
    stimulate the market for green power, leading to additional
    generating capacity and, ultimately, lower costs.

12

Table of Contents   

Executive
    Officers of the Registrant  

The following sets forth certain information with regard to our
    executive officers as of February 18, 2011 (ages are as of
    December 25, 2010):

13

Table of Contents   

ITEM
    1A.        

RISK
    FACTORS  

Fluctuations
    in demand for our products may harm our financial results and
    are difficult to forecast.   

If demand for our products fluctuates, our revenue and
    profitability could be harmed. Important factors that could
    cause demand for our products to fluctuate include:

changes in business and economic conditions, including downturns
    in the semiconductor industry
     and/or  the
    overall economy;

changes in consumer confidence caused by changes in market
    conditions, including changes in the credit market, expectations
    for inflation, unemployment levels, and energy or other
    commodity prices;

changes in the level of customers  components inventories;

competitive pressures, including pricing pressures, from
    companies that have competing products, chip architectures,
    manufacturing technologies, and marketing programs;

changes in customer product needs;

strategic actions taken by our competitors; and

market acceptance of our products.

If product demand decreases, our manufacturing or assembly and
    test capacity could be underutilized, and we may be required to
    record an impairment on our long-lived assets, including
    facilities and equipment as well as intangible assets, which
    would increase our expenses. In addition, if product demand
    decreases or we fail to forecast demand accurately, we could be
    required to write off inventory or record excess capacity
    charges, which would have a negative impact on our gross margin.
    Factory-planning decisions may shorten the useful lives of
    long-lived assets, including facilities and equipment, and cause
    us to accelerate depreciation. In the long term, if product
    demand increases, we may not be able to add manufacturing or
    assembly and test capacity fast enough to meet market demand.
    These changes in demand for our products, and changes in our
    customers  product needs, could have a variety of negative
    effects on our competitive position and our financial results,
    and, in certain cases, may reduce our revenue, increase our
    costs, lower our gross margin percentage, or require us to
    recognize impairments of our assets.

The
    semiconductor industry and our operations are characterized by a
    high percentage of costs that are fixed or difficult to reduce
    in the short term, and by product demand that is highly variable
    and subject to significant downturns that may harm our business,
    results of operations, and financial condition.   

The semiconductor industry and our operations are characterized
    by high costs, such as those related to facility construction
    and equipment, R D, and employment and training of a highly
    skilled workforce, that are either fixed or difficult to reduce
    in the short term. At the same time, demand for our products is
    highly variable and there have been downturns, often in
    connection with maturing product cycles and general economic
    market conditions. These downturns have been characterized by
    reduced product demand, manufacturing overcapacity and resulting
    excess capacity charges, high inventory levels, and lower
    average selling prices. The combination of these factors may
    cause our revenue, gross margin, cash flow, and profitability to
    vary significantly in both the short and long term.

We
    operate in intensely competitive industries, and our failure to
    respond quickly to technological developments and incorporate
    new features into our products could harm our ability to
    compete.   

We operate in intensely competitive industries that experience
    rapid technological developments, changes in industry standards,
    changes in customer requirements, and frequent new product
    introductions and improvements. If we are unable to respond
    quickly and successfully to these developments, we may lose our
    competitive position, and our products or technologies may
    become uncompetitive or obsolete. As new computing market
    segments emerge, such as netbooks, handhelds, tablets, and
    consumer electronics devices, we face new sources of
    competition, and customers that have different requirements than
    customers in our traditional PC business. To be successful, we
    need to cultivate new industry relationships in these market
    segments. As the number and variety of Internet-connected
    devices increase, we need to improve the cost, energy
    efficiency, and security functionality of our microprocessors to
    succeed in these new market segments. In addition, we need to
    focus on the acquisition and development of our software
    capabilities in order to provide customers with complete
    computing solutions.

To compete successfully, we must maintain a successful R D
    effort, develop new products and production processes, and
    improve our existing products and processes at the same pace or
    ahead of our competitors. Our R D efforts are aimed at
    solving increasingly complex problems, and we do not expect that
    all of our projects will be successful. If our R D efforts
    are unsuccessful, our future results of operations could be
    materially harmed. We may not be able to develop and market
    these new products successfully, the products we invest in and
    develop may not be well received by customers, and products
    developed and new technologies offered by others may affect
    demand for our products. These types of events could have a
    variety of negative effects on our competitive position and our
    financial results, such as reducing our revenue, increasing our
    costs, lowering our gross margin percentage, and requiring us to
    recognize impairments on our assets.

14

Table of Contents   

Litigation
    or regulatory proceedings could harm our business.   

We may be subject to legal claims or regulatory matters
    involving stockholder, consumer, competition, and other issues
    on a global basis. As described in  Note 29:
    Contingencies  in Part II, Item 8 of this Form
     10-K,  we are
    currently engaged in a number of litigation and regulatory
    matters. Litigation and regulatory proceedings are subject to
    inherent uncertainties, and unfavorable rulings could occur. An
    unfavorable ruling could include monetary damages or, in cases
    for which injunctive relief is sought, an injunction prohibiting
    us from manufacturing or selling one or more products,
    precluding particular business practices, or requiring other
    remedies, such as compulsory licensing of intellectual property.
    If we were to receive an unfavorable ruling in a matter, our
    business and results of operations could be materially harmed.

Fluctuations
    in the mix of products sold may harm our financial
    results.   

Because of the wide price differences among and within notebook,
    netbook, tablet, desktop, and server microprocessors, the mix
    and types of performance capabilities of microprocessors sold
    affect the average selling price of our products and have a
    substantial impact on our revenue and gross margin. Our
    financial results also depend in part on the mix of other
    products that we sell, such as chipsets, flash memory, and other
    semiconductor products. In addition, more recently introduced
    products tend to have higher associated costs because of initial
    overall development and production ramp. Fluctuations in the mix
    and types of our products may also affect the extent to which we
    are able to recover the fixed costs and investments associated
    with a particular product, and as a result can harm our
    financial results.

Our
    global operations subject us to risks that may harm our results
    of operations and financial condition.   

We have sales offices, R D, manufacturing, and assembly and
    test facilities in many countries, and some business activities
    may be concentrated in one or more geographic areas. As a
    result, we are subject to risks that may limit our ability to
    manufacture, assemble and test, design, develop, or sell
    products in particular countries or on a geographic basis, which
    could harm our results of operations and financial condition,
    including:

security concerns, such as armed conflict and civil or military
    unrest, crime, political instability, and terrorist activity;

health concerns;

natural disasters;

inefficient and limited infrastructure and disruptions, such as
    large-scale outages or interruptions of service from utilities,
    transportation, or telecommunications providers and supply chain
    interruptions;

restrictions on our operations by governments seeking to support
    local industries, nationalization of our operations, and
    restrictions on our ability to repatriate earnings;

differing employment practices and labor issues;

local business and cultural factors that differ from our normal
    standards and practices, including business practices that we
    are prohibited from engaging in by the Foreign Corrupt Practices
    Act and other anti-corruption laws and regulations; and

regulatory requirements and prohibitions that differ among
    jurisdictions.

Violations of these laws and regulations could result in fines;
    criminal sanctions against us, our officers, or our employees;
    prohibitions on the conduct of our business; and damage to our
    reputation. Although we have implemented policies, controls, and
    procedures designed to ensure compliance with these laws, our
    employees, contractors, or agents may violate our policies.

In addition, although substantially all of our products are sold
    in U.S. dollars, we incur a significant amount of certain types
    of expenses, such as payroll, utilities, tax, and marketing
    expenses, as well as conduct certain investing and financing
    activities, in local currencies. Our hedging programs reduce,
    but do not entirely eliminate, the impact of currency exchange
    rate movements; therefore, fluctuations in exchange rates could
    harm our results and financial condition. In addition, changes
    in tariff and import regulations and in U.S. and
     non-U.S. 
    monetary policies may harm our results and financial condition
    by increasing our expenses and reducing our revenue. Varying tax
    rates in different jurisdictions could harm our results of
    operations and financial condition by increasing our overall tax
    rate.

We maintain a program of insurance coverage for various types of
    property, casualty, and other risks. We place our insurance
    coverage with various carriers in numerous jurisdictions.
    However, there is a risk that one or more of our insurance
    providers may be unable to pay a claim. The types and amounts of
    insurance that we obtain vary from time to time and from
    location to location, depending on availability, cost, and our
    decisions with respect to risk retention. The policies are
    subject to deductibles and exclusions that result in our
    retention of a level of risk on a self-insurance basis. Losses
    not covered by insurance may be substantial, which could harm
    our results of operations and financial condition.

15

Table of Contents   

Failure
    to meet our production targets, resulting in undersupply or
    oversupply of products, may harm our business and results of
    operations.   

Production of integrated circuits is a complex process.
    Disruptions in this process can result from interruptions in our
    processes, errors, and difficulties in our development and
    implementation of new processes; defects in materials;
    disruptions in our supply of materials or resources; and
    disruptions at our fabrication and assembly and test facilities
    due to, for example, accidents, maintenance issues, or unsafe
    working conditions all of which could affect the timing of
    production ramps and yields. We may not be successful or
    efficient in developing or implementing new production
    processes. The occurrence of any of the foregoing may result in
    our failure to meet or increase production as desired, resulting
    in higher costs or substantial decreases in yields, which could
    affect our ability to produce sufficient volume to meet specific
    product demand. The unavailability or reduced availability of
    certain products could make it more difficult to deliver
    computing platforms. The occurrence of any of these events could
    harm our business and results of operations.

We may
    have difficulties obtaining the resources or products we need
    for manufacturing, assembling and testing our products, or
    operating other aspects of our business, which could harm our
    ability to meet demand for our products and may increase our
    costs.   

We have thousands of suppliers providing various materials that
    we use in the production of our products and other aspects of
    our business, and we seek, where possible, to have several
    sources of supply for all of those materials. However, we may
    rely on a single or a limited number of suppliers, or upon
    suppliers in a single country, for these materials. The
    inability of such suppliers to deliver adequate supplies of
    production materials or other supplies could disrupt our
    production processes or could make it more difficult for us to
    implement our business strategy. In addition, production could
    be disrupted by the unavailability of the resources used in
    production, such as water, silicon, electricity, gases, and
    other materials. Future environmental regulations could restrict
    the supply or increase the cost of certain of the materials that
    we currently use in our business. Environmental regulations also
    may make it more difficult to obtain permits to build or modify
    additional manufacturing capacity to meet demand. The
    unavailability or reduced availability of the materials or
    resources that we use in our business may require us to reduce
    production of products or may require us to incur additional
    costs in order to obtain an adequate supply of those materials
    or resources. The occurrence of any of these events could harm
    our business and results of operations.

Costs
    related to product defects and errata may harm our results of
    operations and business.   

Costs associated with unexpected product defects and errata
    (deviations from published specifications) due to, for example,
    unanticipated problems in our design and manufacturing
    processes, could include:

writing off the value of inventory of such products;

disposing of products that cannot be fixed;

recalling such products that have been shipped to customers;

providing product replacements for, or modifications to, such
    products; and

defending against litigation related to such products.

These costs could be substantial and may therefore increase our
    expenses and lower our gross margin. In addition, our reputation
    with our customers or users of our products could be damaged as
    a result of such product defects and errata, and the demand for
    our products could be reduced. The announcement of product
    defects
     and/or 
    errata could cause customers to purchase products from our
    competitors as a result of anticipated shortages of Intel
    components or for other reasons. These factors could harm our
    financial results and the prospects for our business.

We may
    be subject to claims of infringement of third-party intellectual
    property rights, which could harm our business.   

Third parties may assert against us or our customers alleged
    patent, copyright, trademark, or other intellectual property
    rights to technologies that are important to our business. We
    are currently engaged in a number of litigation matters
    involving intellectual property rights. We may be subject to
    intellectual property infringement claims from certain
    individuals and companies, including those who have acquired
    patent portfolios for the sole purpose of asserting such claims
    against other companies. Any claims that our products or
    processes infringe the intellectual property rights of others,
    regardless of the merit or resolution of such claims, could
    cause us to incur significant costs in responding to, defending,
    and resolving such claims, and may divert the efforts and
    attention of our management and technical personnel from our
    business. As a result of such intellectual property infringement
    claims, we could be required or otherwise decide that it is
    appropriate to:

pay third-party infringement claims;

discontinue manufacturing, using, or selling particular products
    subject to infringement claims;

discontinue using the technology or processes subject to
    infringement claims;

develop other technology not subject to infringement claims,
    which could be time-consuming and costly or may not be possible;
    or

license technology from the third party claiming infringement,
    which license may not be available on commercially reasonable
    terms.

The occurrence of any of the foregoing could result in
    unexpected expenses or require us to recognize an impairment of
    our assets, which would reduce the value of our assets and
    increase expenses. In addition, if we alter or discontinue our
    production of affected items, our revenue could be harmed.

16

Table of Contents   

We may not be able to enforce or protect our intellectual
    property rights, which may harm our ability to compete and harm
    our business.  

Our ability to enforce our patents, copyrights, software
    licenses, and other intellectual property rights is subject to
    general litigation risks, as well as uncertainty as to the
    enforceability of our intellectual property rights in various
    countries. When we seek to enforce our rights, we are often
    subject to claims that the intellectual property right is
    invalid, is otherwise not enforceable, or is licensed to the
    party against whom we are asserting a claim. In addition, our
    assertion of intellectual property rights often results in the
    other party seeking to assert alleged intellectual property
    rights of its own or assert other claims against us, which could
    harm our business. If we are not ultimately successful in
    defending ourselves against these claims in litigation, we may
    not be able to sell a particular product or family of products
    due to an injunction, or we may have to license the technology
    or pay damages that could, in turn, harm our results of
    operations. In addition, governments may adopt regulations, and
    governments or courts may render decisions, requiring compulsory
    licensing of intellectual property to others, or governments may
    require that products meet specified standards that serve to
    favor local companies. Our inability to enforce our intellectual
    property rights under these circumstances may harm our
    competitive position and our business.

We may
    be subject to intellectual property theft or misuse, which could
    result in third-party claims and harm our business and results
    of operations.   

We regularly face attempts by others to gain unauthorized access
    through the Internet to our information technology systems, such
    as when they masquerade as authorized users or surreptitiously
    introduce software. These attempts, which might be the result of
    industrial or other espionage, or actions by hackers seeking to
    harm the company, its products, or end users, are sometimes
    successful. We seek to detect and investigate these security
    incidents and to prevent their recurrence, but in some cases we
    might be unaware of an incident or its magnitude and effects.
    The theft or unauthorized use or publication of our trade
    secrets and other confidential business information as a result
    of such an incident could adversely affect our competitive
    position and reduce marketplace acceptance of our products; the
    value of our investment in R D, product development, and
    marketing could be reduced; and third parties might assert
    against us or our customers claims related to resulting losses
    of confidential or proprietary information or end-user data, or
    system reliability. Our business could be subject to significant
    disruption, and we could suffer monetary and other losses,
    including the cost of product recalls and returns and
    reputational harm, in the event of such incidents and claims.

Our
    licenses with other companies and our participation in industry
    initiatives may allow other companies, including our
    competitors, to use our patent rights.   

Companies in the semiconductor industry often rely on the
    ability to license patents from each other in order to compete.
    Many of our competitors have broad licenses or cross-licenses
    with us, and under current case law, some of the licenses may
    permit these competitors to pass our patent rights on to others.
    If one of these licensees becomes a foundry, our competitors
    might be able to avoid our patent rights in manufacturing
    competing products. In addition, our participation in industry
    initiatives may require us to license our patents to other
    companies that adopt certain industry standards or
    specifications, even when such organizations do not adopt
    standards or specifications proposed by us. As a result, our
    patents implicated by our participation in industry initiatives
    might not be available for us to enforce against others who
    might otherwise be deemed to be infringing those patents, our
    costs of enforcing our licenses or protecting our patents may
    increase, and the value of our intellectual property may be
    impaired.

We
    invest in companies for strategic reasons and may not realize a
    return on our investments.   

We make investments in companies around the world to further our
    strategic objectives and support our key business initiatives.
    Such investments include equity or debt instruments of public or
    private companies, and many of these instruments are
    non-marketable at the time of our initial investment. These
    companies range from early-stage companies that are often still
    defining their strategic direction to more mature companies with
    established revenue streams and business models. The success of
    these companies is dependent on product development, market
    acceptance, operational efficiency, and other key business
    factors. The companies in which we invest may fail because they
    may not be able to secure additional funding, obtain favorable
    investment terms for future financings, or participate in
    liquidity events such as public offerings, mergers, and private
    sales. If any of these private companies fail, we could lose all
    or part of our investment in that company. If we determine that
    an
     other-than-temporary 
    decline in the fair value exists for an equity or debt
    investment in a public or private company in which we have
    invested, we write down the investment to its fair value and
    recognize the related write-down as an investment loss. We also
    have significant investments in companies in the flash memory
    market segment, and declines in this market segment or changes
    in management s plans with respect to our investments in
    this market segment could result in significant impairment
    charges, impacting gains (losses) on equity method investments,
    net and gains (losses) on other equity investments, net.

When the strategic objectives of an investment have been
    achieved, or if the investment or business diverges from our
    strategic objectives, we may decide to dispose of the
    investment. We may incur losses on the disposal of our
    non-marketable investments. Additionally, for cases in which we
    are required under equity method accounting to recognize a
    proportionate share of another company s income or loss,
    such income or loss may impact our earnings. Gains or losses
    from equity securities could vary from expectations depending on
    gains or losses realized on the sale or exchange of securities,
    gains or losses from equity method investments, and impairment
    charges for equity and other investments.

17

Table of Contents   

Our
    results of operations could vary as a result of the methods,
    estimates, and judgments that we use in applying our accounting
    policies.   

The methods, estimates, and judgments that we use in applying
    our accounting policies have a significant impact on our results
    of operations (see  Critical Accounting Estimates  in
    Part II, Item 7 of this Form
     10-K).  Such
    methods, estimates, and judgments are, by their nature, subject
    to substantial risks, uncertainties, and assumptions, and
    factors may arise over time that lead us to change our methods,
    estimates, and judgments. Changes in those methods, estimates,
    and judgments could significantly affect our results of
    operations.

Decisions
    about the scope of operations of our business could affect our
    results of operations and financial condition.   

Changes in the business environment could lead to changes in our
    decisions about the scope of operations of our business, and
    these changes could result in restructuring and asset impairment
    charges. Factors that could affect our results of operations and
    financial condition with regard to changing the scope of our
    operations include:

timing and execution of plans and programs that may be subject
    to local labor law requirements, including consultation with
    appropriate work councils;

changes in assumptions related to severance and postretirement
    costs;

future divestitures;

new business initiatives and changes in product roadmap,
    development, and manufacturing;

changes in employment levels and turnover rates;

changes in product demand and the business environment; and

changes in the fair value of certain long-lived assets.

Our
    acquisitions, divestitures, and other transactions could disrupt
    our ongoing business and harm our results of
    operations.   

In pursuing our business strategy, we routinely conduct
    discussions, evaluate opportunities, and enter into agreements
    regarding possible investments, acquisitions, divestitures, and
    other transactions, such as joint ventures. Acquisitions and
    other transactions involve significant challenges and risks,
    including risks that:

we may not be able to identify suitable opportunities at terms
    acceptable to us;

the transaction may not advance our business strategy;

we may not realize a satisfactory return on the investment we
    make;

we may not be able to retain key personnel of the acquired
    business;

we may experience difficulty in integrating new employees,
    business systems, and technology;

acquired businesses may not have adequate controls, processes,
    and procedures to ensure compliance with laws and regulations
    globally, and our due diligence process may not identify
    compliance issues or other liabilities that are in existence at
    the time of our acquisition;

we may have difficulty entering into new market segments in
    which we are not experienced; or

we may be unable to retain the customers and partners of
    acquired businesses following the acquisition.

When we decide to sell assets or a business, we may encounter
    difficulty in finding or completing divestiture opportunities or
    alternative exit strategies on acceptable terms in a timely
    manner, and the agreed terms and financing arrangements could be
    renegotiated due to changes in business or market conditions.
    These circumstances could delay the accomplishment of our
    strategic objectives or cause us to incur additional expenses
    with respect to businesses that we want to dispose of, or we may
    dispose of a business at a price or on terms that are less
    favorable than we had anticipated, resulting in a loss on the
    transaction.

If we do enter into agreements with respect to acquisitions,
    divestitures, or other transactions, we may fail to complete
    them due to factors such as:

failure to obtain required regulatory or other approvals;

intellectual property or other litigation; or

difficulties that we or other parties may encounter in obtaining
    financing for the transaction.

In
    order to compete, we must attract, retain, and motivate key
    employees, and our failure to do so could harm our results of
    operations.   

In order to compete, we must attract, retain, and motivate
    executives and other key employees. Hiring and retaining
    qualified executives, scientists, engineers, technical staff,
    and sales representatives are critical to our business, and
    competition for experienced employees in the semiconductor
    industry can be intense. To help attract, retain, and motivate
    qualified employees, we use share-based incentive awards such as
    non-vested share units (restricted stock units) and employee
    stock options. If the value of such stock awards does not
    appreciate as measured by the performance of the price of our
    common stock, or if our share-based compensation otherwise
    ceases to be viewed as a valuable benefit, our ability to
    attract, retain, and motivate employees could be weakened, which
    could harm our results of operations.

18

Table of Contents   

Our
    failure to comply with applicable environmental laws and
    regulations worldwide could harm our business and results of
    operations.   

The manufacturing and assembling and testing of our products
    require the use of hazardous materials that are subject to a
    broad array of EHS laws and regulations. Our failure to comply
    with any of those applicable laws or regulations could result in:

regulatory penalties, fines, and legal liabilities;

suspension of production;

alteration of our fabrication and assembly and test processes;
    and

curtailment of our operations or sales.

In addition, our failure to manage the use, transportation,
    emissions, discharge, storage, recycling, or disposal of
    hazardous materials could subject us to increased costs or
    future liabilities. Existing and future environmental laws and
    regulations could also require us to acquire pollution abatement
    or remediation equipment, modify our product designs, or incur
    other expenses associated with such laws and regulations. Many
    new materials that we are evaluating for use in our operations
    may be subject to regulation under existing or future
    environmental laws and regulations that may restrict our use of
    one or more of such materials in our manufacturing, assembly and
    test processes, or products. Any of these restrictions could
    harm our business and results of operations by increasing our
    expenses or requiring us to alter our manufacturing and assembly
    and test processes.

Climate
    change poses both regulatory and physical risks that could harm
    our results of operations or affect the way we conduct our
    business.   

In addition to the possible direct economic impact that climate
    change could have on us, climate change mitigation programs and
    regulations can increase our costs. For example, the cost of
    perfluorocompounds (PFCs), a gas that we use in manufacturing,
    could increase over time under some climate-change-focused
    emissions trading programs that may be imposed by government
    regulation. If the use of PFCs is prohibited, we would need to
    obtain substitute materials that may cost more or be less
    available for our manufacturing operations. In addition, air
    quality permit requirements for our manufacturing operations
    could become more burdensome and cause delays in our ability to
    modify or build additional manufacturing capacity. Under the
    recently adopted greenhouse gas regulations in the U.S., many of
    our manufacturing facilities will become  major 
    sources under the Clean Air Act in 2011. At a minimum, this
    change in status will result in some uncertainty as the EPA
    adopts guidance on implementation of its greenhouse gas
    regulations. Due to the dynamic nature of our semiconductor
    manufacturing operations, it is likely these new regulations
    will result in increased costs for our U.S. operations. These
    cost increases could be associated with new air pollution
    control requirements, and increased or new monitoring,
    recordkeeping, and reporting of greenhouse gas emissions. We
    also see the potential for higher energy costs driven by climate
    change regulations. Our costs could increase if utility
    companies pass on their costs, such as those associated with
    carbon taxes, emission cap and trade programs, or renewable
    portfolio standards. While we maintain business recovery plans
    that are intended to allow us to recover from natural disasters
    or other events that can be disruptive to our business, we
    cannot be sure that our plans will fully protect us from all
    such disasters or events. Many of our operations are located in
    semi-arid regions, such as Israel and the southwestern U.S. Some
    scenarios predict that these regions may become even more
    vulnerable to prolonged droughts due to climate change.

Changes
    in our effective tax rate may harm our results of
    operations.   

A number of factors may increase our future effective tax rates,
    including:

the jurisdictions in which profits are determined to be earned
    and taxed;

the resolution of issues arising from tax audits with various
    tax authorities;

changes in the valuation of our deferred tax assets and
    liabilities, and changes in deferred tax valuation allowances;

adjustments to income taxes upon finalization of various tax
    returns;

increases in expenses not deductible for tax purposes, including
    write-offs of acquired in-process research and development and
    impairments of goodwill in connection with acquisitions;

changes in available tax credits;

changes in tax laws or the interpretation of such tax laws,
    including changes in the U.S. to the taxation of foreign income
    and expenses;

changes in U.S. generally accepted accounting principles; and

our decision to repatriate
     non-U.S. 
    earnings for which we have not previously provided for U.S.
    taxes.

Any significant increase in our future effective tax rates could
    reduce net income for future periods.

Interest
    and other, net could be impacted by macroeconomic and other
    factors, harming our results of operations.   

Factors that could cause interest and other, net in our
    consolidated statements of income to fluctuate include:

fixed-income, equity, and credit market volatility;

fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates;

fluctuations in interest rates;

changes in the credit standing of financial instrument
    counterparties; and

changes in our cash and investment balances.

19

Table of Contents   

ITEM
    1B.        

UNRESOLVED
    STAFF COMMENTS  

Not applicable.

ITEM
    2.        

PROPERTIES  

As of December 25, 2010, our major facilities consisted of:

1   

Leases on portions of the land used for these facilities
    expire on varying dates through 2062.  

2   

Leases expire on varying dates through 2028 and generally
    include renewals at our option.  

Our principal executive offices are located in the U.S. The
    majority of our wafer fabrication activities are also located in
    the U.S. In addition to our current facilities, we plan to build
    a fabrication facility in Oregon that is scheduled for R D
     start-up  in
    2013, as well as a
     leading-edge 
    technology fabrication facility in Arizona. Outside the U.S., we
    have wafer fabrication at our facilities in Israel, Ireland, and
    China. Our assembly and test facilities are located in Malaysia,
    China, Costa Rica, and Vietnam. In addition, we have sales and
    marketing offices worldwide that are generally located near
    major concentrations of customers.

With the exception of certain facilities placed for sale
     and/or 
    facilities included in our restructuring actions, we believe
    that our facilities detailed above are suitable and adequate for
    our present purposes (see  Note 19: Restructuring and Asset
    Impairment Charges  in Part II, Item 8 of this Form
     10-K). 
    Additionally, the productive capacity in our facilities is
    substantially being utilized or we have plans to utilize it.

We do not identify or allocate assets by operating segment. For
    information on net property, plant and equipment by country, see
     Note 30: Operating Segment and Geographic
    Information  in Part II, Item 8 of this Form
     10-K. 

ITEM
    3.        

LEGAL
    PROCEEDINGS  

For a discussion of legal proceedings, see  Note
    29: Contingencies  in Part II, Item 8 of this Form
     10-K. 

20

Table of Contents   

PART
    II  

ITEM
    5.        

MARKET
    FOR REGISTRANT S COMMON EQUITY, RELATED STOCKHOLDER MATTERS
    AND ISSUER PURCHASES OF EQUITY SECURITIES  

Information regarding the market price range of Intel common
    stock and dividend information may be found in  Financial
    Information by Quarter (Unaudited)  in Part II, Item 8 of
    this Form
     10-K. 

As of February 4, 2011, there were approximately 165,000
    registered holders of record of Intel s common stock. A
    substantially greater number of holders of Intel common stock
    are  street name  or beneficial holders, whose shares
    are held of record by banks, brokers, and other financial
    institutions.

Issuer
    Purchases of Equity Securities  

As of December 25, 2010, we had an ongoing authorization,
    amended in November 2005, from our Board of Directors to
    repurchase up to $25 billion in shares of our common stock in
    open market or negotiated transactions, and $4.2 billion
    remained available for repurchase under the existing repurchase
    authorization limit. In January 2011, our Board of Directors
    increased the repurchase authorization limit by $10 billion.

Common stock repurchases under our authorized plan in each
    quarter of 2010 were as follows (in millions, except per share
    amounts):

Our purchases in 2010 were executed in privately negotiated
    transactions.

For the majority of restricted stock units granted, the number
    of shares issued on the date the restricted stock units vest is
    net of the minimum statutory withholding requirements that we
    pay in cash to the appropriate taxing authorities on behalf of
    our employees. These withheld shares are not considered common
    stock repurchases under our authorized plan and are not included
    in the common stock repurchase totals in the preceding table.
    For further discussion, see  Note 25: Common Stock
    Repurchases  in Part II, Item 8 of this Form
     10-K. 

21

Table of Contents   

Stock
    Performance Graph  

The line graph below compares the cumulative total stockholder
    return on our common stock with the cumulative total return of
    the Dow Jones U.S. Technology Index* and the Standard  
    Poor s S P 500* Index for the five years ended
    December 25, 2010. The graph and table assume that $100 was
    invested on December 30, 2005 (the last day of trading for the
    year ended December 31, 2005) in each of our common stock, the
    Dow Jones U.S. Technology Index, and the S P 500 Index, and
    that all dividends were reinvested. Cumulative total stockholder
    returns for our common stock, the Dow Jones U.S. Technology
    Index, and the S P 500 Index are based on our fiscal year.

Comparison
    of Five-Year Cumulative Return for Intel, 
    the Dow Jones U.S. Technology Index*, and the S P 500*
    Index  

22

Table of Contents   

ITEM
    6.        

SELECTED
    FINANCIAL DATA  

23

Table of Contents   

ITEM
    7.        

MANAGEMENT S
    DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF
    OPERATIONS  

Our Management s Discussion and Analysis of Financial
    Condition and Results of Operations (MD A) is provided in
    addition to the accompanying consolidated financial statements
    and notes to assist readers in understanding our results of
    operations, financial condition, and cash flows. MD A is
    organized as follows:

Overview.  Discussion of our business and overall
    analysis of financial and other highlights affecting the company
    in order to provide context for the remainder of MD A.

Strategy.  Our overall strategy and the strategy for
    our major market segments.

Critical Accounting Estimates.  Accounting estimates
    that we believe are most important to understanding the
    assumptions and judgments incorporated in our reported financial
    results and forecasts.

Results of Operations.  An analysis of our financial
    results comparing 2010 to 2009 and comparing 2009 to 2008.

Business Outlook.  Our expectations for selected
    financial items for 2011.

Liquidity and Capital Resources.  An analysis of
    changes in our balance sheets and cash flows, and discussion of
    our financial condition and potential sources of liquidity.

Fair Value of Financial Instruments.  Discussion of
    the methodologies used in the valuation of our financial
    instruments.

Contractual Obligations and Off-Balance-Sheet
    Arrangements . Overview of contractual obligations,
    contingent liabilities, commitments, and off-balance-sheet
    arrangements outstanding as of December 25, 2010, including
    expected payment schedule.

The various sections of this MD A contain a number of
    forward-looking statements. Words such as  expects, 
     goals,   plans,   believes, 
     continues,   may,   will,  and
    variations of such words and similar expressions are intended to
    identify such forward-looking statements. In addition, any
    statements that refer to projections of our future financial
    performance, our anticipated growth and trends in our
    businesses, and other characterizations of future events or
    circumstances are forward-looking statements. Such statements
    are based on our current expectations and could be affected by
    the uncertainties and risk factors described throughout this
    filing and particularly in the  Business Outlook 
    section and in  Risk Factors  in Part I, Item 1A of
    this Form
     10-K.  Our
    actual results may differ materially, and other than our
    expected completion of the McAfee acquisition in the first
    quarter of 2011 (see  Note 15: Acquisitions  in Part
    II, Item 8 of this Form
     10-K),  these
    forward-looking statements do not reflect the potential impact
    of any divestitures, mergers, acquisitions, or other business
    combinations that had not been completed as of February 18, 2011.

Overview  

Our results of operations were as follows:

2010 was a record year for us. Strong market growth in the
    business and consumer PC market segments as well as the
    continued build-out of the data center, the leadership of our
    product portfolio, and improvements to our cost structure all
    contributed to the most profitable year in our history. Revenue
    increased 24% in 2010 compared to 2009. Our 2010 gross margin
    percentage of 65.3% increased by 9.6 percentage points from
    2009, primarily driven by lower factory underutilization
    charges, higher microprocessor average selling prices, lower
    platform (microprocessor and chipset) unit cost, and higher
    platform unit sales. We expect continued strength in emerging
    markets coupled with the build-out of the cloud computing
    infrastructure to contribute toward a 2011 revenue growth
    percentage in the mid- to high-teens. This expectation is also
    inclusive of the recently completed acquisition of the WLS
    business of Infineon and the expected acquisition of McAfee in
    the first quarter of 2011.

In the fourth quarter, we achieved record quarterly revenue for
    the third quarter in a row despite continuation of the softness
    we saw in the consumer segments of mature markets starting in
    the middle of the year. The sequential decrease in our fourth
    quarter gross margin percentage was primarily driven by charges
    to repair and replace materials and systems impacted by a design
    issue related to our
    Intel   

    6 Series Express Chipset family (see  Note 20: Chipset
    Design Issue  in Part II, Item 8 of this Form
     10-K), 
    increased costs associated with taking older technology offline,
    and higher
     start-up 
    costs. These impacts were partially offset by the qualification
    for sale of our 2nd generation
    Intel   

    Core  tm  

    processor products (formerly code-named Sandy Bridge), resulting
    in lower microprocessor inventory write-offs and sales of
    previously written-off products, and higher platform average
    selling prices.

24

Table of Contents   

MANAGEMENT S
    DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF
    OPERATIONS (Continued)  

As we enter 2011, the strength of our product portfolio is
    highlighted with the launch of 32nm process technology products
    based on our 2nd generation Intel Core processor
    microarchitecture. We continue to deliver improvements in our
    product offerings through our  tick-tock  technology
    development cadence. We plan to invest $9.0 billion in capital
    assets in 2011 as we build and equip our 22nm process technology
    manufacturing capacity, which will increase our leading-edge
    facilities to four. This increase in capital spending will
    enable us to take advantage of the significant market growth
    opportunities that we believe exist for our products across the
    computing spectrum, as well as move more transistors to our
    leading-edge process technologies.

The cash-generating power of our business was evident in 2010
    with $16.7 billion of cash from operations. From a financial
    condition perspective, we ended 2010 with an investment
    portfolio of $21.5 billion, consisting of cash and cash
    equivalents, short-term investments, and marketable debt
    instruments included in trading assets. During 2010, we
    purchased $5.2 billion in capital assets, returned $3.5 billion
    to stockholders through dividends, and repurchased $1.5 billion
    of common stock through our common stock repurchase program. In
    January 2011, our Board of Directors declared a dividend of
    $0.1812 per common share for the first quarter of 2011, an
    increase of approximately 15% compared to our fourth quarter
    dividend, and increased the repurchase authorization limit of
    our common stock repurchase program by $10 billion.

During 2010, we announced a definitive agreement to acquire
    McAfee for approximately $7.68 billion, and we expect to
    complete the acquisition in the first quarter of 2011. For
    further information, see  Note 15: Acquisitions  in
    Part II, Item 8 of this Form
     10-K.  The
    transaction is subject to customary closing conditions.

In the first quarter of 2011, we completed the acquisition of
    the WLS business of Infineon. Total net cash consideration for
    the acquisition is estimated at $1.4 billion. For further
    information, see  Note 15: Acquisitions  in Part II,
    Item 8 of this Form
     10-K. 

In January 2011, we entered into a long-term patent
    cross-license agreement with NVIDIA. Under the agreement, we
    receive a license to all of NVIDIA s patents, while NVIDIA
    products are licensed to our patents subject to exclusions for
    x86 products, certain chipsets, and certain flash memory
    technology products. The agreement also includes settlement of
    the existing litigation between the companies as well as broad
    mutual general releases. We agreed to make payments to NVIDIA
    totaling $1.5 billion over six years. For further information,
    see  Note 29: Contingencies  in Part II, Item 8 of
    this Form
     10-K. 

Strategy  

Our goal is to be the preeminent computing solutions company
    that powers the worldwide digital economy. We believe that the
    proliferation of the Internet and cloud computing have driven
    fundamental changes in the computing industry. We are
    transforming from a company with a primary focus on the design
    and manufacture of semiconductor chips for PCs and servers to a
    computing company that delivers complete solutions in the form
    of hardware and software platforms and supporting services. The
    number and variety of devices connected to the Internet is
    growing, and computing is becoming an increasingly personal
    experience. End users value consistency across devices that
    connect seamlessly and effortlessly to the Internet and to each
    other. We will help to enable this experience by innovating
    around three pillars of computing: energy-efficient performance,
    connectivity, and security.

Energy-Efficient Performance.  We are focusing on
    improved energy-efficient performance for computing and
    communications systems and devices. Improved energy-efficient
    performance involves balancing higher performance with lower
    power consumption.

Connectivity.  We are positioning our business to
    take advantage of the growth in devices that compute and connect
    to the Internet. In the first quarter of 2011, we acquired the
    WLS business of Infineon. This acquisition enables us to offer a
    portfolio of products that covers a broad range of wireless
    connectivity options by combining the
    Intel   

    WiFi and
    Intel   

    WiMAX technologies with WLS  2G and 3G technologies, and
    creates a combined path to accelerate industry adoption of 4G
    LTE.

Security.  Our goal is to enhance security features
    through a combination of hardware and software solutions. This
    may include identity protection and fraud deterrence; detection
    and prevention of malware; securing data and assets; as well as
    system recovery and enhanced security patching. We expect to
    complete the acquisition of McAfee in the first quarter of 2011.
    We believe that this acquisition will accelerate and enhance our
    hardware and software security solutions, improving the overall
    security of our platforms.

25

Table of Contents   

MANAGEMENT S
    DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF
    OPERATIONS (Continued)  

To succeed in the changing computing environment, we have the
    following key objectives:

Strive to ensure that Intel technology remains the best choice
    for the PC as well as cloud computing and the data center.

Expand platforms into adjacent market segments to bring
    compelling new solutions to the smartphone, the tablet, the TV,
    the car, and the rest of the embedded world.

Enable devices that connect to the Internet and to each other to
    create a continuum of personal computing. This continuum would
    give consumers a set of secure, consistent, and personalized
    computing experiences.

Positively impact the world through our actions and the
    application of our energy-efficient technology.

We will use our core assets to meet these objectives. Our core
    assets include our silicon and process technology, our
    architecture and platforms, our global presence, our strong
    relationships across the industry, and our brand recognition. We
    believe that applying these core assets to our key focus areas
    provides us with the scale, capacity, and global reach to
    establish new technologies and respond to customers  needs
    quickly. Some of our core assets and key focus areas are:

Silicon and Manufacturing Technology Leadership.  We
    have long been a leader in silicon process technology and
    manufacturing, and we aim to continue our lead through
    investment and innovation in this critical area. We drive a
    regular two-year upgrade cycle introducing a new
    microarchitecture approximately every two years and ramping the
    next generation of silicon process technology in the intervening
    years. We refer to this as our  tick-tock  technology
    development cadence. As we continue to drive Moore s Law
    over the next several years, we believe that the value of this
    advantage will increase. We aim to have the best process
    technology, and unlike most semiconductor companies, we
    primarily manufacture our products in our own facilities. This
    allows us to optimize performance, reduce our time to market,
    and scale new products more rapidly.

Architecture and Platforms.  We are now developing a
    wide range of solutions for devices that span the computing
    continuum, from PCs and smartphones to smart TVs and in-vehicle
    infotainment systems and beyond. Users want computing
    experiences that are consistent and devices that are
    interoperable. Users and developers value consistency of
    architecture, which provides a common framework that allows for
    reduced time to market, with the ability to leverage
    technologies across multiple form factors. We believe that we
    can meet the needs of both users and developers by offering
    Intel   

    architecture-based computing solutions across the computing
    continuum. We continue to invest in improving Intel architecture
    so that we can deliver increased value to our customers in
    existing market segments and also expand the capabilities of the
    architecture to meet end-user and customer needs in adjacent
    market segments. Increasingly, we are delivering our
    architecture in the form of platforms. Platforms include not
    only the microprocessor, but other critical hardware and
    software ingredients that are necessary to create computing
    solutions. We are expanding our platform capabilities with
    connectivity solutions, new types of user interfaces, new
    features and capabilities, and complementary software.

Software.  We enable and advance the computing
    ecosystem by providing development tools and support to help
    software developers create software applications and operating
    systems that take advantage of our platforms. We seek to
    expedite growth in various market segments, such as the embedded
    and handheld market segments, through our software offerings.
    Additionally, we have collaborated with other companies to
    develop software platforms optimized for our
    Intel   

    Atom  tm  

    processors and that support multiple hardware architectures as
    well as multiple operating systems.

Customer Orientation.  Our strategy focuses on
    developing our next generation of products based on the needs
    and expectations of our customers. In turn, our products help
    enable the design and development of new form factors and usage
    models for businesses and consumers. We offer platforms that
    incorporate various components designed and configured to work
    together to provide an optimized solution compared to components
    that are used separately. Additionally, we promote industry
    standards that we believe will yield innovation and improved
    technologies for users.

Strategic Investments.  We make investments in
    companies around the world that we believe will generate
    financial returns, further our strategic objectives, and support
    our key business initiatives. Our investments, including those
    made through our Intel Capital program, generally focus on
    investing in companies and initiatives to stimulate growth in
    the digital economy, create new business opportunities for
    Intel, and expand global markets for our products.

Stewardship.  We are committed to developing
    energy-efficient technology solutions that can be used to
    address major global problems while reducing our environmental
    impact. We are also committed to helping transform education
    globally through our technology, program, and policy leadership,
    as well as funding through the Intel Foundation. In addition, we
    strive to cultivate a work environment where engaged, energized
    employees can thrive in their jobs and in their communities.

Our continued investment in developing our assets and execution
    on key focus areas will strengthen our competitive position as
    we enter and expand into new market segments. We believe that
    these new market segments will result in demand that is
    incremental to that of microprocessors designed for notebook and
    desktop computers. We also believe that increased Internet
    traffic and use of cloud computing create a need for greater
    server infrastructure, including server products optimized for
    energy-efficient performance and virtualization.

26

Table of Contents   

MANAGEMENT S
    DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF
    OPERATIONS (Continued)  

Strategy
    by Major Market Segment   

The strategy for our   PC Client Group   operating
    segment is to offer products that are incorporated into
    notebook, netbook, tablet, and desktop computers for consumers
    and businesses.

Our strategy for the notebook computing market segment is to
    offer notebook PC products designed to improve performance,
    battery life, and wireless connectivity, as well as to allow for
    the design of smaller, lighter, and thinner form factors. We are
    also increasing our focus on notebook products designed to offer
    technologies that provide increased manageability and security.
    In addition, we are focusing on providing seamless connectivity
    within our platforms through the use and development of
    multi-communication technologies such as WiMAX, WiFi, and 4G LTE.

Our strategy for the netbook computing market segment is to
    offer products that enable customization and affordable
    Internet-focused devices with small form factors. We also are
    focusing on offering performance capabilities and features that
    allow for enhanced end-user experiences such as seamless
    connectivity, improved synchronization of content between
    devices, and enhanced media usage.

Our strategy for the tablet computing market segment is to offer
    Intel Atom processor-based solutions for multiple operating
    systems that are designed to provide enhanced performance and
    seamless connectivity to the Internet and other devices. Tablets
    provide a unique form factor for multiple operating systems and
    a unique user interface, including multi-touch features.

Our strategy for the desktop computing market segment is to
    offer products that provide increased manageability, security,
    and energy-efficient performance while lowering total cost of
    ownership for businesses. For consumers in the desktop computing
    market segment, we also focus on the design of components for
    high-end enthusiast PCs and mainstream PCs with rich audio and
    video capabilities.

The strategy for our   Data Center Group   operating
    segment is to offer products that provide leading performance,
    energy efficiency, and virtualization technology for server,
    workstation, and storage platforms. We are also increasing our
    focus on products designed for high-performance and
    mission-critical computing, cloud computing services, and
    emerging markets. In addition, we offer wired connectivity
    devices that are incorporated into products that make up the
    infrastructure for the Internet.

The strategies for our   other Intel architecture operating
    segments   include:

driving Intel architecture as a solution for embedded
    applications by delivering long life-cycle support, software and
    architectural scalability, and platform integration;

continuing to develop and offer products that enable handheld
    devices to deliver digital content and the Internet to users in
    new ways; and

offering products and solutions for use in consumer electronics
    devices designed to access and share Internet, broadcast,
    optical media, and personal content through a variety of linked
    digital devices within the home, including the TV.

Critical
    Accounting Estimates  

The methods, estimates, and judgments that we use in applying
    our accounting policies have a significant impact on the results
    that we report in our consolidated financial statements. Some of
    our accounting policies require us to make difficult and
    subjective judgments, often as a result of the need to make
    estimates regarding matters that are inherently uncertain. Our
    most critical accounting estimates include:

the valuation of non-marketable equity investments and the
    determination of
     other-than-temporary 
    impairments, which impact gains (losses) on equity method
    investments, net, or gains (losses) on other equity investments,
    net when we record impairments;

the assessment of recoverability of long-lived assets, which
    impacts gross margin or operating expenses when we record asset
    impairments or accelerate their depreciation;

the recognition and measurement of current and deferred income
    taxes (including the measurement of uncertain tax positions),
    which impact our provision for taxes;

the valuation of inventory, which impacts gross margin; and

the recognition and measurement of loss contingencies, which
    impact gross margin or operating expenses when we recognize a
    loss contingency, revise the estimate for a loss contingency, or
    record an asset impairment.

Below, we discuss these policies further, as well as the
    estimates and judgments involved.

27

Table of Contents   

MANAGEMENT S
    DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF
    OPERATIONS (Continued)  

Non-Marketable
    Equity Investments   

We regularly invest in non-marketable equity instruments of
    private companies, which range from early-stage companies that
    are often still defining their strategic direction to more
    mature companies with established revenue streams and business
    models. The carrying value of our non-marketable equity
    investment portfolio, excluding equity derivatives, totaled $2.6
    billion as of December 25, 2010 ($3.4 billion as of December 26,
    2009). The majority of this balance as of December 25, 2010 was
    concentrated in companies in the flash memory market segment.
    Our flash memory market segment investments include our
    investment in IM Flash Technologies, LLC (IMFT) and IM Flash
    Singapore, LLP (IMFS) of $1.5 billion ($1.6 billion as of
    December 26, 2009). For additional information, see  Note
    11: Equity Method and Cost Method Investments  in Part II,
    Item 8 of this Form
     10-K. 

Our non-marketable equity investments are recorded using the
    cost method or the equity method of accounting, depending on the
    facts and circumstances of each investment. Our non-marketable
    equity investments are classified within other long-term assets
    on the consolidated balance sheets.

Non-marketable equity investments are inherently risky, and
    their success is dependent on product development, market
    acceptance, operational efficiency, other key business factors,
    and the ability of the investee companies to raise additional
    funds in financial markets that can be volatile. The companies
    could fail or not be able to raise additional funds when needed,
    or they may receive lower valuations with less favorable
    investment terms than previous financings. These events could
    cause our investments to become impaired. In addition, financial
    market volatility could negatively affect our ability to realize
    value in our investments through liquidity events such as
    initial public offerings, mergers, and private sales. For
    further information about our investment portfolio risks, see
     Risk Factors  in Part I, Item 1A of this Form
     10-K. 

We determine the fair value of our non-marketable equity
    investments quarterly for disclosure purposes; however, the
    investments are recorded at fair value only if an impairment
    charge is recognized. We determine the fair value of our
    non-marketable equity investments using the market and income
    approaches. The market approach includes the use of financial
    metrics and ratios of comparable public companies, such as
    projected revenues, earnings, and comparable performance
    multiples. The selection of comparable companies requires
    management judgment and is based on a number of factors,
    including comparable companies  sizes, growth rates,
    industries, development stages, and other relevant factors. The
    income approach includes the use of a discounted cash flow
    model, which may include one or multiple discounted cash flow
    scenarios and requires the following significant estimates for
    the investee: revenue, based on assumed market segment size and
    assumed market segment share; expenses, capital spending, and
    other costs; and discount rates based on the risk profile of
    comparable companies. Estimates of market segment size, market
    segment share, expenses, capital spending, and other costs are
    developed by the investee
     and/or  Intel
    using historical data and available market data. The valuation
    of our non-marketable equity investments also takes into account
    variables such as conditions reflected in the capital markets,
    recent financing activities by the investees, the
    investees  capital structure, and the terms of the
    investees  issued interests.

For non-marketable equity investments, the measurement of fair
    value requires significant judgment and includes quantitative
    and qualitative analysis of identified events or circumstances
    that impact the fair value of the investment, such as:

the investee s revenue and earnings trends relative to
    pre-defined milestones and overall business prospects;

the technological feasibility of the investee s products
    and technologies;

the general market conditions in the investee s industry or
    geographic area, including adverse regulatory or economic
    changes;

factors related to the investee s ability to remain in
    business, such as the investee s liquidity, debt ratios,
    and the rate at which the investee is using its cash; and

the investee s receipt of additional funding at a lower
    valuation.

If the fair value of an investment is below our carrying value,
    we determine if the investment is other than temporarily
    impaired based on our quantitative and qualitative analysis,
    which includes assessing the severity and duration of the
    impairment and the likelihood of recovery before disposal. If
    the investment is considered to be other than temporarily
    impaired, we write down the investment to its fair value.
    Impairments of non-marketable equity investments were $125
    million in 2010. Over the past 12 quarters, including the fourth
    quarter of 2010, impairments of non-marketable equity
    investments ranged from $11 million to $896 million per quarter.
    This range included impairments of $896 million during the
    fourth quarter of 2008, primarily related to a $762 million
    impairment charge on our investment in Clearwire Communications,
    LLC (Clearwire LLC).

28

Table of Contents   

MANAGEMENT S
    DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF
    OPERATIONS (Continued)  

IMFT/IMFS  

IMFT and IMFS are variable interest entities that are designed
    to manufacture and sell NAND products to Intel and Micron at
    manufacturing cost. We determine the fair value of our
    investment in IMFT/IMFS using the income approach based on a
    weighted average of multiple discounted cash flow scenarios of
    our NAND Solutions Group business, which requires the use of
    unobservable inputs. Unobservable inputs that require us to make
    our most difficult and subjective judgments are the estimates
    for projected revenue and discount rate. Changes in management
    estimates for these unobservable inputs have the most
    significant effect on the fair value determination. We have not
    had an
     other-than-temporary 
    impairment of our investment in IMFT/IMFS.

Long-Lived
    Assets   

We assess the impairment of long-lived assets when events or
    changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying value of the
    assets or the asset grouping may not be recoverable. Factors
    that we consider in deciding when to perform an impairment
    review include significant under-performance of a business or
    product line in relation to expectations, significant negative
    industry or economic trends, and significant changes or planned
    changes in our use of the assets. We measure the recoverability
    of assets that will continue to be used in our operations by
    comparing the carrying value of the asset grouping to our
    estimate of the related total future undiscounted net cash
    flows. If an asset grouping s carrying value is not
    recoverable through the related undiscounted cash flows, the
    asset grouping is considered to be impaired. The impairment is
    measured by comparing the difference between the asset
    grouping s carrying value and its fair value. Long-lived
    assets such as goodwill; intangible assets; and property, plant
    and equipment are considered non-financial assets, and are
    recorded at fair value only if an impairment charge is
    recognized.

Impairments of long-lived assets are determined for groups of
    assets related to the lowest level of identifiable independent
    cash flows. Due to our asset usage model and the interchangeable
    nature of our semiconductor manufacturing capacity, we must make
    subjective judgments in determining the independent cash flows
    that can be related to specific asset groupings. In addition, as
    we make manufacturing process conversions and other factory
    planning decisions, we must make subjective judgments regarding
    the remaining useful lives of assets, primarily process-specific
    semiconductor manufacturing tools and building improvements.
    When we determine that the useful lives of assets are shorter
    than we had originally estimated, we accelerate the rate of
    depreciation over the assets  new, shorter useful lives.
    Over the past 12 quarters, including the fourth quarter of 2010,
    impairments and accelerated depreciation of long-lived assets
    ranged from $10 million to $300 million per quarter.

Income
    Taxes   

We must make estimates and judgments in determining the
    provision for taxes for financial statement purposes. These
    estimates and judgments occur in the calculation of tax credits,
    benefits, and deductions, and in the calculation of certain tax
    assets and liabilities that arise from differences in the timing
    of recognition of revenue and expense for tax and financial
    statement purposes, as well as the interest and penalties
    related to uncertain tax positions. Significant changes in these
    estimates may result in an increase or decrease to our tax
    provision in a subsequent period.

We must assess the likelihood that we will be able to recover
    our deferred tax assets. If recovery is not likely, we must
    increase our provision for taxes by recording a valuation
    allowance against the deferred tax assets that we estimate will
    not ultimately be recoverable. We believe that we will
    ultimately recover the deferred tax assets recorded on our
    consolidated balance sheets. However, should there be a change
    in our ability to recover our deferred tax assets, our tax
    provision would increase in the period in which we determined
    that the recovery was not likely. Recovery of a portion of our
    deferred tax assets is impacted by management s plans with
    respect to holding or disposing of certain investments;
    therefore, changes in management s plans with respect to
    holding or disposing of investments could affect our future
    provision for taxes.

The calculation of our tax liabilities involves dealing with
    uncertainties in the application of complex tax regulations. We
    recognize liabilities for uncertain tax positions based on a
    two-step process. The first step is to evaluate the tax position
    for recognition by determining if the weight of available
    evidence indicates that it is more likely than not that the
    position will be sustained on audit, including resolution of
    related appeals or litigation processes, if any. If we determine
    that a tax position will more likely than not be sustained on
    audit, the second step requires us to estimate and measure the
    tax benefit as the largest amount that is more than 50% likely
    to be realized upon ultimate settlement. It is inherently
    difficult and subjective to estimate such amounts, as we have to
    determine the probability of various possible outcomes. We
    re-evaluate these uncertain tax positions on a quarterly basis.
    This evaluation is based on factors such as changes in facts or
    circumstances, changes in tax law, new audit activity, and
    effectively settled issues. Determining whether an uncertain tax
    position is effectively settled requires judgment. Such a change
    in recognition or measurement would result in the recognition of
    a tax benefit or an additional charge to the tax provision.

29

Table of Contents   

MANAGEMENT S
    DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF
    OPERATIONS (Continued)  

Inventory   

The valuation of inventory requires us to estimate obsolete or
    excess inventory as well as inventory that is not of saleable
    quality. The determination of obsolete or excess inventory
    requires us to estimate the future demand for our products. The
    estimate of future demand is compared to
     work-in-process 
    and finished goods inventory levels to determine the amount, if
    any, of obsolete or excess inventory. As of December 25, 2010,
    we had total
     work-in-process 
    inventory of $1.9 billion and total finished goods inventory of
    $1.4 billion. The demand forecast is included in the development
    of our short-term manufacturing plans to enable consistency
    between inventory valuation and build decisions.
    Product-specific facts and circumstances reviewed in the
    inventory valuation process include a review of the customer
    base, the stage of the product life cycle of our products,
    consumer confidence, and customer acceptance of our products, as
    well as an assessment of the selling price in relation to the
    product cost. If our demand forecast for specific products is
    greater than actual demand and we fail to reduce manufacturing
    output accordingly, we could be required to write off inventory,
    which would negatively impact our gross margin.

In order to determine what costs can be included in the
    valuation of inventory, we must determine normal capacity at our
    manufacturing and assembly and test facilities, based on
    historical loadings compared to total available capacity. If the
    factory loadings are below the established normal capacity
    level, a portion of our manufacturing overhead costs would not
    be included in the cost of inventory, and therefore would be
    recognized as cost of sales in that period, which would
    negatively impact our gross margin. We refer to these costs as
    excess capacity charges. Over the past 12 quarters, excess
    capacity charges ranged from zero to $680 million per quarter.

Loss
    Contingencies   

We are subject to various legal and administrative proceedings
    and asserted and potential claims, accruals related to repair or
    replacement of parts in connection with product errata, as well
    as product warranties and potential asset impairments (loss
    contingencies) that arise in the ordinary course of business. An
    estimated loss from such contingencies is recognized as a charge
    to income if it is probable that a liability has been incurred
    and the amount of the loss can be reasonably estimated.
    Disclosure of a loss contingency is required if there is at
    least a reasonable possibility that a loss has been incurred.
    The outcomes of legal and administrative proceedings and claims,
    and the estimation of product warranties and asset impairments,
    are subject to significant uncertainty. Significant judgment is
    required in both the determination of probability and the
    determination as to whether a loss is reasonably estimable. With
    respect to estimating the losses associated with repairing and
    replacing parts in connection with product errata, we make
    judgments with respect to customer return rates, costs to repair
    or replace parts, and where the product is in our
    customer s manufacturing process. At least quarterly, we
    review the status of each significant matter, and we may revise
    our estimates. These revisions could have a material impact on
    our results of operations and financial position.

Accounting
    Changes and Recent Accounting Standards  

For a description of accounting changes and recent accounting
    standards, including the expected dates of adoption and
    estimated effects, if any, on our consolidated financial
    statements, see  Note 3: Accounting Changes  and
     Note 4: Recent Accounting Standards  in Part II, Item
    8 of this Form
     10-K. 

30

Table of Contents   

MANAGEMENT S
    DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF
    OPERATIONS (Continued)  

Results
    of Operations  

The following table sets forth certain consolidated statements
    of income data as a percentage of net revenue for the periods
    indicated:

Geographic
    Breakdown of Revenue  

Our net revenue for 2010 increased $8.5 billion, or 24%,
    compared to 2009. The increase was due to higher microprocessor
    and chipset unit sales, as well as higher microprocessor average
    selling prices. Revenue in the Japan, Asia-Pacific, Americas,
    and Europe regions increased by 31%, 29%, 21%, and 6%,
    respectively, compared to 2009.

31

Table of Contents   

MANAGEMENT S
    DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF
    OPERATIONS (Continued)  

Our overall gross margin dollars for 2010 increased $8.9
    billion, or 46%, compared to 2009. The increase was primarily
    due to significantly higher revenue. To a lesser extent, excess
    capacity charges recorded in 2009 of $1.1 billion and lower
    platform (microprocessor and chipset) unit cost contributed to
    the increase in gross margin dollars for 2010 compared to 2009.
    These increases were partially offset by charges recorded in the
    fourth quarter of 2010 to repair and replace materials and
    systems impacted by a design issue related to our
    Intel   

    6 Series Express Chipset family. For further information, see
     Note 20: Chipset Design Issue  in Part II, Item 8 of
    this Form
     10-K. 

Our overall gross margin percentage increased to 65.3% in 2010
    from 55.7% in 2009. The increase in gross margin percentage was
    primarily attributable to the gross margin percentage increase
    in the PC Client Group operating segment and, to a lesser
    extent, gross margin percentage increases in the Data Center
    Group and NAND Solutions Group operating segments. We derived a
    substantial majority of our overall gross margin dollars in 2010
    and 2009 from the sale of microprocessors in the PC Client Group
    and Data Center Group operating segments. See  Business
    Outlook  for a discussion of gross margin expectations.

Our net revenue for 2009 decreased 7% compared to 2008. Average
    selling prices for microprocessors and chipsets decreased and
    microprocessor and chipset unit sales increased, compared to
    2008, primarily due to the ramp of Intel Atom processors and
    chipsets, which generally have lower average selling prices than
    our other microprocessor and chipset products. Revenue from the
    sale of NOR flash memory products and communications products
    declined $740 million, primarily as a result of business
    divestitures. Additionally, an increase in revenue from the sale
    of NAND flash memory products was mostly offset by a decrease in
    revenue from the sale of wireless connectivity products. Revenue
    in the Asia-Pacific region increased 2% compared to 2008, while
    revenue in the Europe, Japan, and Americas regions decreased by
    26%, 15%, and 4%, respectively, compared to 2008.

Our overall gross margin dollars for 2009 decreased $1.3
    billion, or 6%, compared to 2008. The decrease was due to lower
    revenue, approximately $830 million of higher factory
    underutilization charges, and approximately $330 million of
    higher
     start-up 
    costs. These decreases were partially offset by lower platform
    unit cost and lower NAND flash memory unit cost. Our overall
    gross margin percentage increased slightly to 55.7% in 2009 from
    55.5% in 2008. The slight increase in gross margin percentage
    was primarily attributable to the gross margin percentage
    increases in the NAND Solutions Group and Data Center Group
    operating segments, offset by the gross margin percentage
    decrease in the PC Client Group operating segment. We derived a
    substantial majority of our overall gross margin dollars in
    2009, and most of our overall gross margin dollars in 2008, from
    the sales of microprocessors in the PC Client Group and Data
    Center Group operating segments.

PC
    Client Group   

The revenue and operating income for the PC Client Group (PCCG)
    for the three years ended December 25, 2010 were as follows:

Net revenue for the PCCG operating segment increased by $5.4
    billion, or 21%, in 2010 compared to 2009. Microprocessors and
    chipsets within PCCG include those designed for the notebook,
    netbook, and desktop computing market segments. Significantly
    higher notebook unit sales were the primary driver for the
    increase in microprocessor revenue. To a lesser extent, higher
    notebook average selling prices and higher desktop unit sales
    also contributed to the increase. The increase in chipset,
    motherboard, and other revenue was due to significantly higher
    chipset unit sales, partially offset by significantly lower
    revenue from the sale of wireless connectivity products.

Operating income increased by $5.7 billion in 2010 compared to
    2009. The increase in operating income was primarily due to
    significantly higher revenue. During 2009, PCCG recognized
    approximately $1.0 billion of excess capacity charges, primarily
    related to microprocessors and chipsets. Additionally, lower
    platform unit cost in 2010 contributed to the increase in
    operating income. These impacts were partially offset by charges
    recorded in the fourth quarter of 2010 to repair and replace
    materials and systems impacted by a design issue related to our
    Intel   

    6 Series Express Chipset family. Additionally, operating
    expenses in 2010 were higher compared to 2009.

32

Table of Contents   

MANAGEMENT S
    DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF
    OPERATIONS (Continued)  

For 2009, net revenue for the PCCG operating segment decreased
    by $1.8 billion, or 6%, compared to 2008. The decrease in
    microprocessor revenue was primarily due to lower notebook
    microprocessor average selling prices, and lower desktop
    microprocessor unit sales and average selling prices. These
    decreases were partially offset by a significant increase in
    netbook microprocessor unit sales due to the ramp of Intel Atom
    processors. The decrease in chipset, motherboard, and other
    revenue was primarily due to lower chipset average selling
    prices and lower unit sales of wireless connectivity products,
    partially offset by higher chipset unit sales.

Operating income decreased by $1.8 billion, or 19%, in 2009
    compared to 2008. The decrease was primarily due to lower
    revenue and approximately $810 million of higher factory
    underutilization charges, partially offset by lower platform
    unit cost.

Data
    Center Group   

The revenue and operating income for the Data Center Group (DCG)
    for the three years ended December 25, 2010 were as follows:

Net revenue for the DCG operating segment increased by $2.2
    billion, or 35%, in 2010 compared to 2009. The increase in
    microprocessor revenue was primarily due to significantly higher
    microprocessor unit sales and, to a lesser extent, higher
    microprocessor average selling prices. The increase in chipset,
    motherboard, and other revenue was due to significantly higher
    chipset unit sales and significantly higher revenue from the
    sale of wired connectivity products.

Operating income increased by $2.1 billion in 2010 compared to
    2009. The increase in operating income was due to significantly
    higher revenue and, to a lesser extent, lower chipset unit cost.

For 2009, net revenue for the DCG operating segment decreased
    slightly by $140 million, or 2%, compared to 2008. The increase
    in microprocessor revenue was due to higher microprocessor
    average selling prices, partially offset by lower microprocessor
    unit sales. The decrease in chipset, motherboard, and other
    revenue was primarily due to lower chipset average selling
    prices.

Operating income increased by $164 million, or 8%, compared to
    2008. The increase in operating income was primarily due to
    higher microprocessor revenue and lower operating expenses,
    partially offset by approximately $150 million of higher
     start-up 
    costs as well as lower chipset revenue.

Other
    Intel Architecture Operating Segments   

The revenue and operating income for the other Intel
    architecture (Other IA) operating segments, including the
    Embedded and Communications Group (ECG), the Digital Home Group,
    and the Ultra-Mobility Group, for the three years ended December
    25, 2010 were as follows:

Net revenue for the Other IA operating segments increased by
    $382 million, or 27%, in 2010 compared to 2009. The increase was
    primarily due to significantly higher revenue within ECG from
    significantly higher microprocessor and chipset unit sales.
    Operating loss decreased by $119 million in 2010 compared to
    2009. The operating loss decrease was primarily due to
    significantly higher ECG revenue and lower ECG unit cost,
    partially offset by higher operating expenses in ECG and the
    Ultra-Mobility Group.

For 2009, net revenue for the Other IA operating segments
    decreased by $361 million, or 20%, compared to 2008, and
    operating loss for the Other IA operating segments increased by
    $116 million in 2009 compared to 2008. The changes were
    primarily due to lower revenue from the sale of communications
    products within ECG, primarily as a result of business
    divestitures.

33

Table of Contents   

MANAGEMENT S
    DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF
    OPERATIONS (Continued)  

Operating
    Expenses   

Operating expenses for the three years ended December 25, 2010
    were as follows:

Research and Development.  R D spending
    increased by $923 million, or 16%, in 2010 compared to 2009, and
    was flat in 2009 compared to 2008. The increase in 2010 compared
    to 2009 was primarily due to higher profit-dependent
    compensation, an increase in employees, and higher process
    development costs as we transitioned from manufacturing
     start-up 
    costs related to our 32nm process technology to R D of our
    next-generation 22nm process technology. In 2009 compared to
    2008, we had lower process development costs as we transitioned
    from R D to manufacturing using our 32nm process
    technology. This decrease was offset by higher profit-dependent
    compensation.

Marketing, General and Administrative.  Marketing,
    general and administrative expenses decreased $1.6 billion, or
    20%, in 2010 compared to 2009, and increased $2.5 billion, or
    45%, in 2009 compared to 2008. The decrease in 2010 was due to
    the 2009 charge of $1.447 billion incurred as a result of the
    fine imposed by the European Commission (EC) and the $1.25
    billion payment to AMD in 2009 as part of a settlement
    agreement. These decreases were partially offset by higher
    advertising expenses (including cooperative advertising
    expenses), higher profit-dependent compensation, and, to a
    lesser extent, expenses related to our Wind River Software Group
    operating segment and an expense of $100 million recognized
    during the fourth quarter of 2010 due to a patent cross-license
    agreement that we entered into with NVIDIA in January 2011 (see
     Note 29: Contingencies  in Part II, Item 8 of this
    Form  10-K). 
    The increase in 2009 compared to 2008 was due to the 2009 charge
    incurred as a result of the fine imposed by the EC and the
    payment to AMD in 2009 as part of a settlement agreement. To a
    lesser extent, we had higher profit-dependent compensation
    expenses that were partially offset by lower advertising
    expenses (including cooperative advertising expenses).

R D, combined with marketing, general and administrative
    expenses, were 30% of net revenue in 2010, 39% of net revenue in
    2009, and 30% of net revenue in 2008.

Restructuring and Asset Impairment Charges.  The
    following table summarizes restructuring and asset impairment
    charges by plan for the three years ended December 25, 2010:

2009
    Restructuring Program  

In the first quarter of 2009, management approved plans to
    restructure some of our manufacturing and assembly and test
    operations. These plans included closing two assembly and test
    facilities in Malaysia, one facility in the Philippines, and one
    facility in China; stopping production at a 200mm wafer
    fabrication facility in Oregon; and ending production at our
    200mm wafer fabrication facility in California. The 2009
    restructuring program is complete. The following table
    summarizes charges for the 2009 restructuring program for the
    two years ended December 25, 2010:

34

Table of Contents   

MANAGEMENT S
    DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF
    OPERATIONS (Continued)  

The following table summarizes the restructuring and asset
    impairment activity for the 2009 restructuring program during
    2009 and 2010:

Under the 2009 restructuring program, we incurred $208 million
    of charges related to employee severance and benefit
    arrangements for approximately 6,500 employees. Most of these
    employee actions occurred within manufacturing.

We estimate that these employee severance and benefit charges
    result in gross annual savings of approximately $290 million. We
    are realizing a substantial majority of these savings within
    cost of sales.

2008 NAND
    Plan  

In the fourth quarter of 2008, management approved a plan with
    Micron to discontinue the supply of NAND flash memory from the
    200mm facility within the IMFT manufacturing network. The
    agreement resulted in a $215 million restructuring charge,
    primarily related to the IMFT 200mm supply agreement. The
    restructuring charge resulted in a reduction of our investment
    in IMFT/IMFS of $184 million, a cash payment to Micron of $24
    million, and other cash payments of $7 million. The 2008 NAND
    plan was completed at the end of 2008.

2006
    Efficiency Program  

In the third quarter of 2006, management approved several
    actions as part of a restructuring plan designed to improve
    operational efficiency and financial results. The following
    table summarizes charges for the 2006 efficiency program for the
    three years ended December 25, 2010:

During 2006, as part of our assessment of our worldwide
    manufacturing capacity operations, we placed for sale our
    fabrication facility in Colorado Springs, Colorado. As a result
    of placing the facility for sale, in 2006 we recorded a $214
    million impairment charge to write down to fair value the land,
    building, and equipment. We incurred $54 million in additional
    asset impairment charges as a result of market conditions
    related to the Colorado Springs facility during 2007 and
    additional charges in 2008. We sold the Colorado Springs
    facility in 2009.

We incurred $85 million in asset impairment charges related to
    assets that we sold in conjunction with the divestiture of our
    NOR flash memory business in 2007 and an additional $275 million
    in 2008. We determined the impairment charges based on the fair
    value, less selling costs, that we expected to receive upon
    completion of the divestiture in 2007, and determined the
    impairment charges based on the revised fair value of the equity
    and note receivable that we received upon completion of the
    divestiture, less selling costs, in 2008. For further
    information on this divestiture, see  Note 16:
    Divestitures  in Part II, Item 8 of this Form
     10-K. 

35

Table of Contents   

MANAGEMENT S
    DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF
    OPERATIONS (Continued)  

The following table summarizes the restructuring and asset
    impairment activity for the 2006 efficiency program during 2009:

The 2006 efficiency program is complete. From the third quarter
    of 2006 through 2009, we incurred a total of $1.6 billion in
    restructuring and asset impairment charges related to this
    program. These charges included a total of $686 million related
    to employee severance and benefit arrangements for 11,300
    employees. A substantial majority of these employee actions
    affected employees within manufacturing, information technology,
    and marketing. The restructuring and asset impairment charges
    also included $896 million in asset impairment charges.

Share-Based
    Compensation   

Share-based compensation totaled $917 million in 2010 ($889
    million in 2009 and $851 million in 2008). Share-based
    compensation was included in cost of sales and operating
    expenses.

As of December 25, 2010, unrecognized share-based compensation
    costs and the weighted average periods over which the costs are
    expected to be recognized were as follows:

Unrecognized 

Share-Based 

Weighted 

Compensation 

Average 

(Dollars in Millions) 

Costs 

Period 

Stock options

$

220

1.2 years

Restricted stock units

$

1,210

1.3 years

Stock purchase plan

$

13

1 month

Gains
    (Losses) on Equity Method Investments, Net   

Gains (losses) on equity method investments, net were as follows:

We recognized higher gains on sales, lower impairment charges,
    and lower equity method losses in 2010 compared to 2009. During
    2010, we recognized a gain of $33 million on the initial public
    offering of SMART Technologies, Inc., included within
     Equity method losses, net,  and a gain of $148
    million on the subsequent sale of our shares in the secondary
    offering, included in  Other, net,  resulting in a
    total gain of $181 million. We also recognized a gain of $91
    million on the sale of our ownership interest in Numonyx B.V.,
    included in  Other, net.  Equity method losses, net
    also includes Clearwire LLC ($116 million loss in 2010 and $27
    million loss in 2009), Numonyx ($42 million gain in 2010, $31
    million loss in 2009, and $87 million loss in 2008), and
    Clearwire Corporation ($184 million loss in 2008). For further
    information, see  Note 11: Equity Method and Cost Method
    Investments  in Part II, Item 8 of this Form
     10-K. 

36

Table of Contents   

MANAGEMENT S
    DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF
    OPERATIONS (Continued)  

Impairment charges in 2008 included a $762 million impairment
    charge recognized on our investment in Clearwire LLC and a $250
    million impairment charge recognized on our investment in
    Numonyx. We recognized the impairment charge on our investment
    in Clearwire LLC to write down our investment to its fair value,
    primarily due to the fair value being significantly lower than
    the cost basis of our investment in the fourth quarter of 2008.
    The impairment charge on our investment in Numonyx was due to a
    general decline in 2008 in the NOR flash memory market segment.
    See  Note 11: Equity Method and Cost Method
    Investments  in Part II, Item 8 of this Form
     10-K. 

Gains
    (Losses) on Other Equity Investments, Net   

Gains (losses) on other equity investments, net were as follows:

We recognized higher gains on third-party merger transactions,
    primarily related to our cost method investments; higher gains
    on sales; and lower impairment charges in 2010 compared to 2009.
    Gains on other equity investments in 2010 included a gain of $67
    million on the sale of shares in Micron, which occurred in the
    first quarter of 2010.

Impairment charges in 2008 included a $176 million impairment
    charge recognized on our investment in Clearwire Corporation and
    $97 million of impairment charges on our investment in Micron.
    The impairment charge on our investment in Clearwire Corporation
    was due to the fair value being significantly lower than the
    cost basis of our investment at the end of the fourth quarter of
    2008. The impairment charges on our investment in Micron
    reflected the difference between our cost basis and the fair
    value of our investment in Micron at the end of the second and
    third quarters of 2008. In addition, we recognized higher gains
    on equity derivatives in 2009 compared to 2008.

Interest
    and Other, Net   

The components of interest and other, net were as follows:

Interest income was lower in 2010 compared to 2009 as a result
    of lower average interest rates, partially offset by higher
    average investment balances. The average interest rate earned
    during 2010 decreased by approximately 0.5 percentage points
    compared to 2009. In addition, lower fair value gains on our
    trading assets (zero in 2010 and $70 million in 2009) were
    partially offset by lower exchange rate losses (zero in 2010 and
    $40 million in 2009). Exchange rate losses in 2009 were due to
    euro exposure related to our euro-denominated liability for the
    EC fine.

We recognized lower interest income in 2009 compared to 2008 as
    a result of lower interest rates. The average interest rate
    earned during 2009 decreased by 2.4 percentage points compared
    to 2008. In addition, lower gains on divestitures (zero in 2009
    and $59 million in 2008) were more than offset by $70 million of
    fair value gains in 2009 on our trading assets, compared to $130
    million of fair value losses in 2008.

37

Table of Contents   

MANAGEMENT S
    DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF
    OPERATIONS (Continued)  

Provision
    for Taxes   

Our provision for taxes and effective tax rate were as follows:

We generated a higher percentage of our profits from higher tax
    jurisdictions in 2010 compared to 2009, negatively impacting our
    effective tax rate for 2010. The effective tax rate for 2009 was
    positively impacted by the reversal of previously accrued taxes
    of $366 million on settlements, effective settlements, and
    related remeasurements of various uncertain tax positions. These
    impacts were partially offset by the recognition of the EC fine
    of $1.447 billion in 2009, which was not tax deductible and
    therefore significantly increased our effective tax rate for
    2009. For further information on the EC fine, see  Note 29:
    Contingencies  in Part II, Item 8 of this Form
     10-K. 

We generated a higher percentage of our profits from lower tax
    jurisdictions in 2009 compared to 2008, positively impacting our
    effective tax rate for 2009. In addition, the 2009 tax rate was
    positively impacted by the reversal of previously accrued taxes
    of $366 million on settlements, effective settlements, and
    related remeasurements of various uncertain tax positions
    compared to a reversal of $103 million for such matters in 2008.
    These impacts were partially offset by the recognition of the EC
    fine. In addition, our 2008 effective tax rate was negatively
    impacted by the recognition of a valuation allowance on our
    deferred tax assets due to the uncertainty of realizing tax
    benefits related to impairments of our equity investments.

Business
    Outlook  

Our future results of operations and the topics of other
    forward-looking statements contained in this Form
     10-K, 
    including this MD A, involve a number of risks and
    uncertainties in particular:

changes in business and economic conditions;

revenue and pricing;

gross margin and costs;

pending legal proceedings;

our effective tax rate;

marketing, general and administrative expenses;

our goals and strategies;

new product introductions, and product defects and errata;

plans to cultivate new businesses;

R D expenses;

divestitures, acquisitions, or similar transactions;

net gains (losses) from equity investments;

interest and other, net;

capital spending;

depreciation; and

impairment of investments.

Our business outlook incorporates financial projections and
    assumptions concerning the performance of McAfee, which we
    expect to acquire in the first quarter of 2011, and the recently
    acquired WLS business of Infineon (see  Note 15:
    Acquisitions  in Part II, Item 8 of this Form
     10-K). 
    Because we are required to make a number of assumptions about
    the future performance of these businesses, it may be more
    difficult to accurately project our financial results. Some of
    these assumptions include the prospects for the acquired
    businesses  products and markets, the ability to retain
    customer relationships and key employees, successful integration
    of key technologies or operations, and the potential for
    unexpected liabilities. In addition, as we integrate these
    businesses into our operations, our understanding of the
    financial and operational performance of the acquired businesses
    may change, which could require an update to our business
    outlook.

Our business outlook contains forward-looking statements and
    projections based upon estimates of the impact of the chipset
    design issue related to our Intel 6 Series Express Chipset
    family (see  Note 20: Chipset Design Issue  in Part
    II, Item 8 of this Form
     10-K)  on our
    future financial and operating results, including on revenue,
    gross margin, and inventory valuation, based on our preliminary
    analysis. Among the factors related to the chipset design issue
    that could cause actual results to differ are the number of
    units that may be affected, the impact on systems in the market,
    the costs that we may incur in repairing or replacing impacted
    components, the extent to which customers purchase parts from
    our competitors as a result of our parts shortages or otherwise,
    the extent of shipments of impacted chipsets for use in PC
    system configurations that would not be impacted by the design
    issue, and the extent to which we are able to increase
    production of substitute or redesigned parts for customers.

In addition to the various important factors discussed above, a
    number of other important factors could cause actual results to
    differ materially from our expectations. See  Risk
    Factors  in Part I, Item 1A of this
     Form 10-K. 

38

Table of Contents   

MANAGEMENT S
    DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF
    OPERATIONS (Continued)  

Our expectations for 2011 are as follows:

Revenue.  We expect a 2011 revenue growth percentage
    in the mid- to high-teens.

Gross Margin Percentage.  63%, plus or minus a few
    percentage points. The 63% midpoint is lower compared to our
    2010 gross margin of 65.3%, primarily due to higher
    manufacturing period costs, mostly
     start-up 
    costs, as well as the impacts of the recently completed
    acquisition of the WLS business of Infineon and the expected
    acquisition of McAfee in the first quarter of 2011. We expect
    these decreases to be partially offset by lower platform unit
    cost and higher platform revenue.

Total Spending.  We expect spending on R D, plus
    marketing, general and administrative expenses, in 2011 to be
    approximately $15.7 billion, plus or minus $200 million,
    compared to $12.9 billion in 2010.

Research and Development Spending.  Approximately
    $8.2 billion compared to $6.6 billion in 2010 as we continue to
    ramp our new 22nm process technology.

Capital Spending.  $9.0 billion, plus or minus $300
    million, compared to $5.2 billion in 2010. We expect capital
    spending for 2011 to primarily consist of investments in 22nm
    process technology.

Depreciation.  Approximately $5.0 billion, plus or
    minus $100 million, compared to $4.4 billion in 2010.

Tax Rate.  Approximately 29%, flat compared to 29% in
    2010. The estimated effective tax rate is based on tax law in
    effect as of December 25, 2010 and expected income.

Status of
    Business Outlook  

We expect that our corporate representatives will, from time to
    time, meet privately with investors, investment analysts, the
    media, and others, and may reiterate the forward-looking
    statements contained in the  Business Outlook  section
    and elsewhere in this Form
     10-K, 
    including any such statements that are incorporated by reference
    in this Form
     10-K.  At the
    same time, we will keep this Form
     10-K  and our
    most current business outlook publicly available on our Investor
    Relations web site at  www.intc.com . The public can
    continue to rely on the business outlook published on our web
    site as representing our current expectations on matters
    covered, unless we publish a notice stating otherwise. The
    statements in the  Business Outlook  section and other
    forward-looking statements in this Form
     10-K  are
    subject to revision during the course of the year in our
    quarterly earnings releases and SEC filings and at other times.

From the close of business on March 4, 2011 until our quarterly
    earnings release is published, presently scheduled for April 19,
    2011, we will observe a  quiet period.  During the
    quiet period, the  Business Outlook  section and other
    forward-looking statements first published in our Form
     8-K  filed on
    January 13, 2011, as updated in our Form
     8-K  filed on
    January 31, 2011, and as reiterated or updated as applicable in
    this Form
     10-K,  should
    be considered historical, speaking as of prior to the quiet
    period only and not subject to update. During the quiet period,
    our representatives will not comment on our business outlook or
    our financial results or expectations. The exact timing and
    duration of the routine quiet period, and any others that we
    utilize from time to time, may vary at our discretion.

39

Table of Contents   

MANAGEMENT S
    DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF
    OPERATIONS (Continued)  

Liquidity
    and Capital Resources  

Sources
    and Uses of Cash 
        (In
    Millions) 

In summary, our cash flows were as follows:

40

Table of Contents   

MANAGEMENT S
    DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF
    OPERATIONS (Continued)  

Operating
    Activities   

Cash provided by operating activities is net income adjusted for
    certain non-cash items and changes in certain assets and
    liabilities.

For 2010 compared to 2009, the $5.5 billion increase in cash
    provided by operating activities was due to higher net income,
    partially offset by adjustments for non-cash items. Income taxes
    paid, net of refunds, in 2010 compared to 2009 were $3.7 billion
    higher, primarily due to higher income before taxes in 2010.

Changes in assets and liabilities as of December 25, 2010
    compared to December 26, 2009 included the following:

Inventories  increased due to higher microprocessor
    inventory, primarily due to ramping new products.

Accounts receivable  increased due to a higher proportion
    of sales at the end of the fourth quarter of 2010.

Accounts payable  increased due to timing of payments.

For 2010 and 2009, our two largest customers accounted for 38%
    of our net revenue, with one of these customers accounting for
    21% of our net revenue in 2010 and 2009, and another customer
    accounting for 17% of our net revenue in 2010 and 2009. These
    two largest customers accounted for 44% of our accounts
    receivable as of December 25, 2010 (41% as of December 26, 2009).

For 2009 compared to 2008, the $244 million increase in cash
    provided by operating activities was primarily due to changes in
    assets and liabilities, partially offset by lower net income.
    Income taxes paid, net of refunds, in 2009 compared to 2008 were
    $3.1 billion lower, primarily due to lower income before taxes
    and timing of payments.

Investing
    Activities   

Investing cash flows consist primarily of capital expenditures,
    net investment purchases, maturities, disposals, and cash used
    for acquisitions.

The increase in cash used for investing activities in 2010
    compared to 2009 was primarily due to an increase in net
    purchases of
     available-for-sale 
    investments and, to a lesser extent, higher capital expenditures
    ($5.2 billion in 2010 and $4.5 billion in 2009). These increases
    were partially offset by a decrease in net purchases of trading
    assets and lower cash paid for acquisitions.

The increase in cash used for investing activities in 2009
    compared to 2008 was primarily due to an increase in net
    purchases of
     available-for-sale 
    investments and trading assets, and higher cash paid for
    acquisitions. These increases were partially offset by a
    decrease in investments in non-marketable equity investments.
    Our investments in non-marketable equity investments in 2008
    included $1.0 billion for an ownership interest in Clearwire LLC.

Financing
    Activities   

Financing cash flows consist primarily of repurchases of common
    stock, payment of dividends to stockholders, issuance and
    repayment of long-term debt, and proceeds from the sale of
    shares through employee equity incentive plans.

The increase in cash used in financing activities in 2010
    compared to 2009 was due to the issuance of long-term debt in
    2009. During 2010, we repurchased $1.7 billion of common stock
    compared to $1.8 billion in 2009. As of December 25, 2010, $4.2
    billion remained available for repurchase under the existing
    repurchase authorization of $25 billion. In January 2011, our
    Board of Directors increased the repurchase authorization limit
    by $10 billion. We base our level of common stock repurchases on
    internal cash management decisions, and this level may
    fluctuate. Proceeds from the sale of shares through employee
    equity incentive plans totaled $587 million in 2010 compared to
    $400 million in 2009. Our total dividend payments were $3.5
    billion in 2010 compared to $3.1 billion in 2009 as a result of
    an increase in quarterly cash dividends per common share. We
    have paid a cash dividend in each of the past 73 quarters. In
    January 2011, our Board of Directors declared a cash dividend of
    $0.1812 per common share for the first quarter of 2011. The
    dividend is payable on March 1, 2011 to stockholders of record
    on February 7, 2011.

The decrease in cash used in financing activities in 2009
    compared to 2008 was primarily due to a decrease in repurchases
    of common stock and the issuance of long-term debt, partially
    offset by lower proceeds from sales of shares through employee
    equity incentive plans. We used the majority of the proceeds
    from the 2009 issuance of long-term debt to repurchase common
    stock.

41

Table of Contents   

MANAGEMENT S
    DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF
    OPERATIONS (Continued)  

Liquidity   

Cash generated by operations is our primary source of liquidity.
    As of December 25, 2010, cash and cash equivalents, marketable
    debt instruments included in trading assets, and short-term
    investments totaled $21.5 billion. In addition to the $21.5
    billion, we have $3.9 billion in loans receivable and other
    long-term investments that we include when assessing our
    investment portfolio. In the first quarter of 2011, we completed
    the acquisition of the WLS business of Infineon. Total net cash
    consideration for the acquisition is estimated at $1.4 billion.
    For further information, see  Note 15: Acquisitions 
    in Part II, Item 8 of this Form
     10-K. 

Substantially all of our investments in debt instruments are
    with A/A2 or better rated issuers, and a substantial majority of
    the issuers are rated AA-/Aa3 or better.

Our commercial paper program provides another potential source
    of liquidity. We have an ongoing authorization from our Board of
    Directors to borrow up to $3.0 billion, including through the
    issuance of commercial paper. Maximum borrowings under our
    commercial paper program during 2010 were $150 million, although
    no commercial paper remained outstanding as of December 25,
    2010. Our commercial paper was rated
     A-1+  by
    Standard   Poor s and
     P-1  by
    Moody s as of December 25, 2010. We also have an automatic
    shelf registration statement on file with the SEC, pursuant to
    which we may offer an unspecified amount of debt, equity, and
    other securities.

We believe that we have the financial resources needed to meet
    our business requirements for the next 12 months, including
    capital expenditures for worldwide manufacturing and assembly
    and test; working capital requirements; and potential dividends,
    common stock repurchases, and acquisitions or strategic
    investments.

Fair
    Value of Financial Instruments  

When determining fair value, we consider the principal or most
    advantageous market in which we would transact, and we consider
    assumptions that market participants would use when pricing the
    asset or liability. For further information, see  Fair
    Value  in  Note 2: Accounting Policies  in Part
    II, Item 8 of this Form
     10-K. 

Credit risk is factored into the valuation of financial
    instruments that we measure and record at fair value on a
    recurring basis. When fair value is determined using pricing
    models, such as a discounted cash flow model, the issuer s
    credit risk
     and/or 
    Intel s credit risk is factored into the calculation of the
    fair value, as appropriate.

Marketable
    Debt Instruments   

As of December 25, 2010, our assets measured and recorded at
    fair value on a recurring basis included $24 billion of
    marketable debt instruments. Of these instruments, $7 billion
    was classified as Level 1, $16.7 billion as Level 2, and $308
    million as Level 3.

Our balance of marketable debt instruments that are measured and
    recorded at fair value on a recurring basis and classified as
    Level 1 was classified as such due to the use of observable
    market prices for identical securities that are traded in active
    markets. Management judgment was required to determine the
    levels for the frequency of transactions that should be met for
    a market to be considered active. Our assessment of an active
    market for our marketable debt instruments generally takes into
    consideration the number of days each individual instrument
    trades over a specified period.

Of the $16.7 billion balance of marketable debt instruments
    measured and recorded at fair value on a recurring basis and
    classified as Level 2, approximately 45% of the balance was
    classified as Level 2 due to the use of a discounted cash flow
    model and approximately 55% due to the use of non-binding market
    consensus prices that are corroborated with observable market
    data.

Our marketable debt instruments that are measured and recorded
    at fair value on a recurring basis and classified as Level 3
    were classified as such due to the lack of observable market
    data to corroborate either the non-binding market consensus
    prices or the non-binding broker quotes. When observable market
    data is not available, we corroborate the non-binding market
    consensus prices and non-binding broker quotes using
    unobservable data, if available.

42

Table of Contents   

MANAGEMENT S
    DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF
    OPERATIONS (Continued)  

Equity
    Securities   

As of December 25, 2010, our portfolio of assets measured and
    recorded at fair value on a recurring basis included $1.4
    billion of marketable equity securities. Of these securities,
    $1.2 billion was classified as Level 1 because the valuations
    were based on quoted prices for identical securities in active
    markets. Our assessment of an active market for our marketable
    equity securities generally takes into consideration the number
    of days that each individual equity security trades over a
    specified period. The remaining marketable equity securities of
    $223 million were classified as Level 2 because their valuations
    were either adjusted for security-specific restrictions or based
    on quoted prices for identical securities in less active markets.

Contractual
    Obligations  

The following table summarizes our significant contractual
    obligations as of December 25, 2010:

1   

Capital purchase obligations represent commitments for the
    construction or purchase of property, plant and equipment. They
    were not recorded as liabilities on our consolidated balance
    sheet as of December 25, 2010, as we had not yet received the
    related goods or taken title to the property.  

2   

Other purchase obligations and commitments include payments
    due under various types of licenses and agreements to purchase
    raw materials or other goods, as well as payments due under
    non-contingent funding obligations. Funding obligations include,
    for example, agreements to fund various projects with other
    companies.  

3   

Amounts represent principal and interest cash payments over
    the life of the debt obligations, including anticipated interest
    payments that are not recorded on our consolidated balance
    sheet. Any future settlement of convertible debt would impact
    our cash payments.  

4   

We are unable to reliably estimate the timing of future
    payments related to uncertain tax positions; therefore, $190
    million of long-term income taxes payable has been excluded from
    the preceding table. However, long-term income taxes payable,
    included on our consolidated balance sheet, included these
    uncertain tax positions, reduced by the associated federal
    deduction for state taxes and U.S. tax credits arising from
     non-U.S. 
    income.  

5   

Amounts represent future cash payments to satisfy other
    long-term liabilities recorded on our consolidated balance
    sheet, including the short-term portion of these long-term
    liabilities. Expected contributions to our U.S. and
     non-U.S. 
    pension plans and other postretirement benefit plans of $56
    million to be made during 2011 are also included; however,
    funding projections beyond 2011 are not practical to
    estimate.  

6   

Total generally excludes contractual obligations already
    recorded on our consolidated balance sheet as current
    liabilities.  

Contractual obligations for purchases of goods or services
    include agreements that are enforceable and legally binding on
    Intel and that specify all significant terms, including fixed or
    minimum quantities to be purchased; fixed, minimum, or variable
    price provisions; and the approximate timing of the transaction.
    For obligations with cancellation provisions, the amounts
    included in the preceding table were limited to the
    non-cancelable portion of the agreement terms
     and/or  the
    minimum cancellation fee.

We have entered into certain agreements for the purchase of raw
    materials that specify minimum prices and quantities based on a
    percentage of the total available market or based on a
    percentage of our future purchasing requirements. Due to the
    uncertainty of the future market and our future purchasing
    requirements, as well as the non-binding nature of these
    agreements, obligations under these agreements are not included
    in the preceding table. Our purchase orders for other products
    are based on our current manufacturing needs and are fulfilled
    by our vendors within short time horizons. In addition, some of
    our purchase orders represent authorizations to purchase rather
    than binding agreements.

43

Table of Contents   

MANAGEMENT S
    DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF
    OPERATIONS (Continued)  

Contractual obligations that are contingent upon the achievement
    of certain milestones are not included in the preceding table.
    These obligations include contingent funding/payment obligations
    and milestone-based equity investment funding. These
    arrangements are not considered contractual obligations until
    the milestone is met by the third party. Assuming that all
    future milestones are met, additional required payments related
    to these obligations were not significant as of December 25,
    2010.

For the majority of restricted stock units granted, the number
    of shares issued on the date the restricted stock units vest is
    net of the minimum statutory withholding requirements that we
    pay in cash to the appropriate taxing authorities on behalf of
    our employees. The obligation to pay the relative taxing
    authority is not included in the preceding table, as the amount
    is contingent upon continued employment. In addition, the amount
    of the obligation is unknown, as it is based in part on the
    market price of our common stock when the awards vest.

We have a contractual obligation to purchase the output of IMFT
    in proportion to our investment, which was 49% as of December
    25, 2010. We also have several agreements with Micron related to
    intellectual property rights, and R D funding related to
    NAND flash manufacturing. The obligation to purchase our
    proportion of IMFT s inventory was approximately $100
    million as of December 25, 2010. See  Note 11: Equity
    Method and Cost Method Investments  in Part II, Item 8 of
    this Form
     10-K. 

In January 2011, we entered into a patent cross-license
    agreement with NVIDIA. We agreed to make payments totaling $1.5
    billion to NVIDIA over six years ($300 million in each of
    January 2011, 2012, and 2013; and $200 million in each of
    January 2014, 2015, and 2016). For further information, see
     Note 29: Contingencies  in Part II, Item 8 of this
    Form  10-K. 

During 2010, we entered into a definitive agreement to acquire
    all outstanding common shares of McAfee for $48.00 per share in
    cash to be paid to the stockholders of McAfee. As of the date
    that we entered into the agreement, the transaction had an
    approximate value of $7.68 billion. We expect to complete the
    acquisition in the first quarter of 2011. The transaction is
    subject to customary closing conditions. For further
    information, see  Note 15: Acquisitions  in Part II,
    Item 8 of this Form
     10-K. 

During 2010, we entered into a definitive agreement to acquire
    the WLS business of Infineon. In the first quarter of 2011, we
    completed the acquisition. Total net cash consideration for the
    acquisition is estimated at $1.4 billion. For further
    information, see  Note 15: Acquisitions  in Part II,
    Item 8 of this Form
     10-K. 

The expected timing of payments of the obligations above is
    estimated based on current information. Timing of payments and
    actual amounts paid may be different, depending on the time of
    receipt of goods or services, or changes to
     agreed-upon 
    amounts for some obligations.

Off-Balance-Sheet
    Arrangements  

As of December 25, 2010, we did not have any significant
    off-balance-sheet arrangements, as defined in Item 303(a)(4)(ii)
    of SEC Regulation
     S-K. 

44

Table of Contents   

ITEM
    7A.        

QUANTITATIVE
    AND QUALITATIVE DISCLOSURES ABOUT MARKET RISK  

We use derivative financial instruments primarily to manage
    currency exchange rate and interest rate risk, and, to a lesser
    extent, equity market and commodity price risk. All of the
    potential changes noted below are based on sensitivity analyses
    performed on our financial positions as of December 25, 2010 and
    December 26, 2009. Actual results may differ materially.

Currency
    Exchange Rates  

In general, we economically hedge currency risks of
     non-U.S.-dollar-denominated 
    investments in debt instruments and loans receivable with
    offsetting currency forward contracts or currency interest rate
    swaps. Gains and losses on these
     non-U.S.-currency 
    investments would generally be offset by corresponding losses
    and gains on the related hedging instruments, resulting in a
    negligible net exposure to loss.

Substantially all of our revenue is transacted in U.S. dollars.
    However, a significant amount of our operating expenditures and
    capital purchases are incurred in or exposed to other
    currencies, primarily the Japanese yen, the euro, and the
    Israeli shekel. We have established balance sheet and forecasted
    transaction currency risk management programs to protect against
    fluctuations in fair value and the volatility of future cash
    flows caused by changes in exchange rates. We generally utilize
    currency forward contracts and, to a lesser extent, currency
    options in these hedging programs. Our hedging programs reduce,
    but do not always entirely eliminate, the impact of currency
    exchange rate movements (see  Risk Factors  in Part I,
    Item 1A of this Form
     10-K).  We
    considered the historical trends in currency exchange rates and
    determined that it was reasonably possible that a weighted
    average adverse change of 20% in currency exchange rates could
    be experienced in the near term. Such an adverse change, after
    taking into account hedges and offsetting positions, would have
    resulted in an adverse impact on income before taxes of less
    than $35 million as of December 25, 2010 (less than $40 million
    as of December 26, 2009).

Interest
    Rates  

We generally hedge interest rate risks of fixed-rate debt
    instruments with offsetting interest rate swaps. Gains and
    losses on these investments would generally be offset by
    corresponding losses and gains on the related hedging
    instruments, resulting in a negligible net exposure to interest
    rate loss.

We are exposed to interest rate risk related to our investment
    portfolio and debt issuances. We refer to our combined
    investment portfolio, investment hedges, and debt issuances as
    our net investment position. The primary objective of our
    investments in debt instruments is to preserve principal while
    maximizing yields. To achieve this objective, the returns on our
    investments in debt instruments are generally based on the
     U.S.-dollar 
    three-month LIBOR. A hypothetical decrease in interest rates of
    1.0% would have resulted in an increase in the fair value of our
    debt issuances of approximately $235 million as of December 25,
    2010 (an increase of approximately $205 million as of December
    26, 2009). A hypothetical decrease in interest rates of up to
    1.0%, after taking into account investment hedges, would have
    resulted in an increase in the fair value of our investment
    portfolio of up to approximately $15 million as of December 25,
    2010 (an increase of approximately $10 million as of December
    26, 2009). These hypothetical decreases in interest rates would
    have resulted in a decrease in the fair value of our net
    investment position of approximately $220 million as of December
    25, 2010 (a decrease of $195 million as of December 26, 2009).
    The fluctuations in fair value of our net investment position
    reflect only the direct impact of the change in interest rates.
    Other economic variables, such as equity market fluctuations and
    changes in relative credit risk, could result in a significantly
    higher decline in our net investment position. For further
    information on how credit risk is factored into the valuation of
    our investment portfolio and debt issuances, see  Fair
    Value of Financial Instruments  in Part II, Item 7 of this
    Form  10-K. 

Equity
    Prices  

Our marketable equity investments include marketable equity
    securities and equity derivative instruments such as warrants
    and options. To the extent that our marketable equity securities
    have strategic value, we typically do not attempt to reduce or
    eliminate our equity market exposure through hedging activities;
    however, for our investments in strategic equity derivative
    instruments, we may enter into transactions to reduce or
    eliminate the equity market risks. For securities that we no
    longer consider strategic, we evaluate legal, market, and
    economic factors in our decision on the timing of disposal, and
    whether it is possible and appropriate to hedge the equity
    market risk.

We hold derivative instruments that seek to offset changes in
    liabilities related to the equity market risks of certain
    deferred compensation arrangements. The gains and losses from
    changes in fair value of these derivatives are designed to
    offset the gains and losses on the related liabilities,
    resulting in an insignificant net exposure to loss.

45

Table of Contents   

As of December 25, 2010, the fair value of our marketable equity
    investments and our equity derivative instruments, including
    hedging positions, was $1.5 billion ($805 million as of December
    26, 2009). Our marketable equity investments include our
    investments in Micron, Imagination Technologies Group PLC,
    VMware, Inc., and Clearwire Corporation, and were carried at a
    total fair market value of $968 million, or 65% of our
    marketable equity portfolio, as of December 25, 2010. Our
    marketable equity method investment in SMART is excluded from
    our analysis, as the carrying value does not fluctuate based on
    market price changes unless an
     other-than-temporary 
    impairment is deemed necessary. To determine reasonably possible
    decreases in the market value of our marketable equity
    investments, we analyzed the expected market price sensitivity
    of our marketable equity investment portfolio. Assuming a loss
    of 40% in market prices, and after reflecting the impact of
    hedges and offsetting positions, the aggregate value of our
    marketable equity investments could decrease by approximately
    $365 million, based on the value as of December 25, 2010 (a
    decrease in value of approximately $405 million, based on the
    value as of December 26, 2009 using an assumed loss of 50%).

Many of the same factors that could result in an adverse
    movement of equity market prices affect our non-marketable
    equity investments, although we cannot always quantify the
    impact directly. Financial markets are volatile, which could
    negatively affect the prospects of the companies we invest in,
    their ability to raise additional capital, and the likelihood of
    our being able to realize value in our investments through
    liquidity events such as initial public offerings, mergers, and
    private sales. These types of investments involve a great deal
    of risk, and there can be no assurance that any specific company
    will grow or become successful; consequently, we could lose all
    or part of our investment. Our non-marketable equity
    investments, excluding investments accounted for under the
    equity method, had a carrying amount of $872 million as of
    December 25, 2010 ($939 million as of December 26, 2009). As of
    December 25, 2010, the carrying amount of our non-marketable
    equity method investments was $1.8 billion ($2.5 billion as of
    December 26, 2009). A substantial majority of this balance as of
    December 25, 2010 was concentrated in our IMFT/IMFS investment
    of $1.5 billion ($1.6 billion as of December 26, 2009). Our
    investments as of December 26, 2009 also included an investment
    of $453 million in Numonyx, which was sold in 2010. For further
    information, see  Note 11: Equity Method and Cost Method
    Investments  in Part II, Item 8 of this Form
     10-K. 

46

Table of Contents   

ITEM
    8.        

FINANCIAL
    STATEMENTS AND SUPPLEMENTARY DATA  

INDEX TO
    CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS  

Page 

Consolidated Statements of Income 

48

Consolidated Balance Sheets 

49

Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows 

50

Consolidated Statements of Stockholders 
    Equity 

51

Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements 

52

Reports of Ernst   Young LLP, Independent
    Registered Public Accounting Firm 

105

Supplemental Data: Financial Information by
    Quarter 

107

47

Table of Contents   

INTEL
    CORPORATION 
     CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF INCOME  

See accompanying notes. 

48

Table of Contents   

INTEL
    CORPORATION 
     CONSOLIDATED BALANCE SHEETS  

See accompanying notes. 

49

Table of Contents   

INTEL
    CORPORATION 
     CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF CASH FLOWS  

See accompanying notes. 

50

Table of Contents   

INTEL
    CORPORATION 
     CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF STOCKHOLDERS 
    EQUITY  

See accompanying notes. 

51

Table of Contents   

INTEL
    CORPORATION 
    NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS  

Note 1:
    Basis of Presentation  

We have a 52- or 53-week fiscal year that ends on the last
    Saturday in December. Fiscal years 2010, 2009, and 2008 were all
    52-week years. Fiscal year 2011 is a 53-week year. Our
    consolidated financial statements include the accounts of Intel
    Corporation and our wholly owned subsidiaries. Intercompany
    accounts and transactions have been eliminated. We use the
    equity method to account for equity investments in instances in
    which we own common stock or similar interests and have the
    ability to exercise significant influence, but not control, over
    the investee. For all fiscal years presented, the U.S. dollar is
    the functional currency for Intel and our subsidiaries;
    therefore, we do not have a translation adjustment recorded
    through accumulated other comprehensive income (loss).

Note 2:
    Accounting Policies  

Use of
    Estimates   

The preparation of consolidated financial statements in
    conformity with U.S. generally accepted accounting principles
    requires us to make estimates and judgments that affect the
    amounts reported in our consolidated financial statements and
    the accompanying notes. The accounting estimates that require
    our most significant, difficult, and subjective judgments
    include:

the valuation of non-marketable equity investments and the
    determination of
     other-than-temporary 
    impairments;

the assessment of recoverability of long-lived assets;

the recognition and measurement of current and deferred income
    taxes (including the measurement of uncertain tax positions);

the valuation of inventory; and

the recognition and measurement of loss contingencies.

The actual results that we experience may differ materially from
    our estimates.

Fair
    Value   

Fair value is the price that would be received from selling an
    asset or paid to transfer a liability in an orderly transaction
    between market participants at the measurement date. When
    determining fair value, we consider the principal or most
    advantageous market in which we would transact, and we consider
    assumptions that market participants would use when pricing the
    asset or liability. Our financial instruments are measured and
    recorded at fair value, except for equity method investments,
    cost method investments, cost method loans receivable, and most
    of our liabilities.

Fair
    Value Hierarchy  

The three levels of inputs that may be used to measure fair
    value are as follows:

Level 1.  Quoted prices in active markets for
    identical assets or liabilities.

Level 2.  Observable inputs other than Level 1
    prices, such as quoted prices for similar assets or liabilities,
    quoted prices in markets with insufficient volume or infrequent
    transactions (less active markets), or model-derived valuations
    in which all significant inputs are observable or can be derived
    principally from or corroborated with observable market data for
    substantially the full term of the assets or liabilities. Level
    2 inputs also include non-binding market consensus prices that
    can be corroborated with observable market data, as well as
    quoted prices that were adjusted for security-specific
    restrictions.

Level 3.  Unobservable inputs to the valuation
    methodology that are significant to the measurement of the fair
    value of assets or liabilities. Level 3 inputs also include
    non-binding market consensus prices or non-binding broker quotes
    that we were unable to corroborate with observable market data.

For further discussion of fair value, see  Note
    5: Fair Value  and  Note 22: Retirement Benefit
    Plans. 

Trading
    Assets   

Marketable debt instruments are designated as trading assets
    when the interest rate or foreign exchange rate risk is
    economically hedged at inception with a related derivative
    instrument. Investments designated as trading assets are
    reported at fair value. The gains or losses of these investments
    arising from changes in fair value due to interest rate and
    currency market fluctuations and credit market volatility,
    offset by losses or gains on the related derivative instruments,
    are recorded in interest and other, net. We also designate
    certain floating-rate securitized financial instruments,
    primarily asset-backed securities, as trading assets.

52

Table of Contents   

INTEL
    CORPORATION 
    NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)  

In the second quarter of 2010, we sold our ownership interest in
    Numonyx B.V. to Micron Technology, Inc. for consideration
    consisting of shares of Micron. The Micron shares that we
    received in the transaction are classified as marketable equity
    securities within trading assets. Our interest in Micron makes
    up most of the balance of marketable equity securities included
    in trading assets. We have entered into equity options that
    economically hedge our remaining ownership interest in Micron.
    Gains and losses from the changes in the fair value of Micron
    shares are mostly offset by changes in the fair value of the
    related equity options and are recorded as gains (losses) on
    other equity investments, net. For further information, see
     Note 11: Equity Method and Cost Method Investments. 

Available-for-Sale 
    Investments   

We consider all liquid
     available-for-sale 
    debt instruments with original maturities from the date of
    purchase of approximately three months or less to be cash and
    cash equivalents.
     Available-for-sale 
    debt instruments with original maturities at the date of
    purchase greater than approximately three months and remaining
    maturities of less than one year are classified as short-term
    investments.
     Available-for-sale 
    debt instruments with remaining maturities beyond one year are
    classified as other long-term investments.

Investments that we designate as
     available-for-sale 
    are reported at fair value, with unrealized gains and losses,
    net of tax, recorded in accumulated other comprehensive income
    (loss), except as noted in the
      Other-Than-Temporary 
    Impairment  section below. We determine the cost of the
    investment sold based on an average cost basis at the individual
    security level. Our
     available-for-sale 
    investments include:

Marketable debt instruments  when the interest rate and
    foreign currency risks are not hedged at inception of the
    investment or when our designation for trading assets is not
    met. We generally hold these debt instruments to generate a
    return commensurate with the
     U.S.-dollar 
    three-month LIBOR. We record the interest income and realized
    gains and losses on the sale of these instruments in interest
    and other, net.

Marketable equity securities  when the investments are
    considered strategic in nature at the time of original
    classification or there are barriers to mitigating equity market
    risk through the sale or use of derivative instruments at the
    time of original classification. We acquire these equity
    investments for the promotion of business and strategic
    objectives. To the extent that these investments continue to
    have strategic value, we typically do not attempt to reduce or
    eliminate the equity market risks through hedging activities. We
    record the realized gains or losses on the sale or exchange of
    marketable equity securities in gains (losses) on other equity
    investments, net.

Non-Marketable
    and Other Equity Investments   

Our non-marketable equity and other equity investments are
    included in other long-term assets. We account for
    non-marketable equity and other equity investments for which we
    do not have control over the investee as:

Equity method investments  when we have the ability to
    exercise significant influence, but not control, over the
    investee. Gains (losses) on equity method investments, net may
    be recorded with up to a one-quarter lag. Equity method
    investments include marketable and non-marketable investments.

Non-marketable cost method investments  when the equity
    method does not apply. We record the realized gains or losses on
    the sale of non-marketable cost method investments in gains
    (losses) on other equity investments, net.

Other-Than-Temporary 
    Impairment   

All of our
     available-for-sale 
    investments and non-marketable and other equity investments are
    subject to a periodic impairment review. Investments are
    considered impaired when the fair value is below the
    investment s cost basis/amortized cost. Impairments affect
    earnings as follows:

Marketable debt instruments  when the fair value is below
    amortized cost and we intend to sell the instrument, it is more
    likely than not that we will be required to sell the instrument
    before recovery of its amortized cost basis, or we do not expect
    to recover the entire amortized cost basis of the instrument
    (that is, a credit loss exists).
     Other-than-temporary 
    impairments are separated into amounts representing credit
    losses, which are recognized in interest and other, net, and
    amounts related to all other factors, which are recognized in
    other comprehensive income (loss).

Marketable equity securities  based on the specific facts
    and circumstances present at the time of assessment, which
    include the consideration of general market conditions, the
    duration and extent to which the fair value is below cost, and
    our intent and ability to hold the investment for a sufficient
    period of time to allow for recovery in value in the foreseeable
    future. We also consider specific adverse conditions related to
    the financial health of, and business outlook for, the investee,
    which may include industry and sector performance, changes in
    technology, operational and financing cash flow factors, and
    changes in the investee s credit rating. We record
     other-than-temporary 
    impairment charges on marketable equity securities in gains
    (losses) on other equity investments, net and for marketable
    equity method investments in gains (losses) on other equity
    method investments, net.

53

Table of Contents   

INTEL
    CORPORATION 
    NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)  

Non-marketable equity investments  based on our assessment
    of the severity and duration of the impairment, and qualitative
    and quantitative analysis, including:

the investee s revenue and earnings trends relative to
    pre-defined milestones and overall business prospects;

the technological feasibility of the investee s products
    and technologies;

the general market conditions in the investee s industry or
    geographic area, including adverse regulatory or economic
    changes;

factors related to the investee s ability to remain in
    business, such as the investee s liquidity, debt ratios,
    and the rate at which the investee is using its cash; and

the investee s receipt of additional funding at a lower
    valuation.

We record
     other-than-temporary 
    impairment charges in gains (losses) on other equity
    investments, net for non-marketable cost method investments and
    in gains (losses) on equity method investments, net for equity
    method investments.

Derivative
    Financial Instruments   

Our primary objective for holding derivative financial
    instruments is to manage currency exchange rate and interest
    rate risk, and, to a lesser extent, equity market and commodity
    price risk. Our derivative financial instruments are recorded at
    fair value and are included in other current assets, other
    long-term assets, other accrued liabilities, or other long-term
    liabilities.

Our accounting policies for derivative financial instruments are
    based on whether they meet the criteria for designation as cash
    flow or fair value hedges. A designated hedge of the exposure to
    variability in the future cash flows of an asset or a liability,
    or of a forecasted transaction, is referred to as a cash flow
    hedge. A designated hedge of the exposure to changes in fair
    value of an asset or a liability, or of an unrecognized firm
    commitment, is referred to as a fair value hedge. The criteria
    for designating a derivative as a hedge include the assessment
    of the instrument s effectiveness in risk reduction,
    matching of the derivative instrument to its underlying
    transaction, and the assessment of the probability that the
    underlying transaction will occur. For derivatives with cash
    flow hedge accounting designation, we report the after-tax gain
    or loss from the effective portion of the hedge as a component
    of accumulated other comprehensive income (loss) and reclassify
    it into earnings in the same period or periods in which the
    hedged transaction affects earnings, and within the same line
    item on the consolidated statements of income as the impact of
    the hedged transaction. For derivatives with fair value hedge
    accounting designation, we recognize gains or losses from the
    change in fair value of these derivatives, as well as the
    offsetting change in the fair value of the underlying hedged
    item, in earnings. Derivatives that we designate as hedges are
    classified in the consolidated statements of cash flows in the
    same section as the underlying item, primarily within cash flows
    from operating activities.

We recognize gains and losses from changes in fair values of
    derivatives that are not designated as hedges for accounting
    purposes within the line item on the consolidated statements of
    income most closely associated with the economic underlying,
    primarily in interest and other, net and gains (losses) on other
    equity investments, net. As part of our strategic investment
    program, we also acquire equity derivative instruments, such as
    equity conversion rights associated with debt instruments, that
    we do not designate as hedging instruments. We recognize the
    gains or losses from changes in fair values of these equity
    derivative instruments in gains (losses) on other equity
    investments, net. Gains and losses from derivatives not
    designated as hedges are classified in cash flows from operating
    activities.

Measurement
    of Effectiveness  

Effectiveness for forwards  is generally measured by
    comparing the cumulative change in the fair value of the hedge
    contract with the cumulative change in the present value of the
    forecasted cash flows of the hedged item. For currency forward
    contracts used in cash flow hedging strategies related to
    capital purchases, forward points are excluded, and
    effectiveness is measured using spot rates to value both the
    hedge contract and the hedged item. For currency forward
    contracts used in cash flow hedging strategies related to
    operating expenditures, forward points are included and
    effectiveness is measured using forward rates to value both the
    hedge contract and the hedged item.

Effectiveness for options with hedge accounting designation
     is generally measured by comparing the cumulative change in
    the intrinsic value of the hedge contract with the cumulative
    change in the intrinsic value of an option instrument
    representing the hedged risks in the hedged item for cash flow
    hedges. For cash flow and fair value hedges, time value is
    excluded and effectiveness is measured based on spot rates to
    value both the hedge contract and the hedged item.

Effectiveness for interest rate swaps and commodity swaps
     is generally measured by comparing the change in fair value
    of the hedged item with the change in fair value of the swap.

54

Table of Contents   

INTEL
    CORPORATION 
    NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)  

If a cash flow hedge is discontinued because it is no longer
    probable that the original hedged transaction will occur as
    anticipated, the unrealized gain or loss on the related
    derivative is reclassified into earnings. Subsequent gains or
    losses on the related derivative instrument are recognized in
    interest and other, net in each period until the instrument
    matures, is terminated, is re-designated as a qualified hedge,
    or is sold. Ineffective portions of cash flow hedges and fair
    value hedges, as well as amounts excluded from the assessment of
    effectiveness, are recognized in earnings in interest and other,
    net. For further discussion of our derivative instruments, see
     Note 8: Derivative Financial Instruments. 

Securities
    Lending   

We may enter into securities lending agreements with financial
    institutions, generally to facilitate hedging and certain
    investment transactions. Selected securities may be loaned,
    secured by collateral in the form of cash or securities. The
    loaned securities continue to be carried as investment assets on
    our consolidated balance sheets. Cash and cash equivalent
    collateral is recorded as an asset with a corresponding
    liability. For lending agreements collateralized by securities,
    we do not record the collateral as an asset or a liability,
    unless the collateral is repledged.

Loans
    Receivable   

We make loans to third parties that are classified within other
    current assets or other long-term assets. We may elect the fair
    value option for loans when the interest rate or foreign
    exchange rate risk is economically hedged at inception with a
    related derivative instrument. We record the gains or losses on
    these loans arising from changes in fair value due to interest
    rate, currency market fluctuations, and credit market
    volatility, offset by losses or gains on the related derivative
    instruments, in interest and other, net. Loans that are
    denominated in U.S. dollars and have a floating-rate coupon are
    carried at amortized cost. We measure interest income for all
    loans receivable using the interest method, which is based on
    the effective yield of the loans rather than the stated coupon
    rate.

Inventories   

We compute inventory cost on a currently adjusted standard basis
    (which approximates actual cost on an average or
     first-in, 
    first-out basis). Inventories at year-ends were as follows:

Property,
    Plant and Equipment   

Property, plant and equipment, net at year-ends was as follows:

We compute depreciation for financial reporting purposes using
    the straight-line method over the following estimated useful
    lives: machinery and equipment, 2 to 4 years; buildings, 4 to 40
    years.

We capitalize interest on borrowings related to eligible capital
    expenditures. Capitalized interest is added to the cost of
    qualified assets and amortized over the estimated useful lives
    of the assets. We record capital-related government grants
    earned as a reduction to property, plant and equipment.

55

Table of Contents   

INTEL
    CORPORATION 
    NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)  

Goodwill   

We record goodwill when the purchase price of an acquisition
    exceeds the fair value of the net tangible and intangible assets
    as of the date of acquisition, assigning the goodwill to our
    applicable reporting units based on the relative expected fair
    value provided by the acquisition. We perform a quarterly review
    of goodwill for indicators of impairment. During the fourth
    quarter of each year, we perform an impairment review for each
    reporting unit using a fair value approach. We do not identify
    manufacturing and assembly and test assets with individual
    reporting units because of the interchangeable nature of our
    manufacturing and assembly and test assets. In determining the
    carrying value of the reporting unit, we make an allocation of
    our manufacturing and assembly and test assets based on each
    reporting unit s relative percentage utilization of the
    manufacturing and assembly and test assets. For further
    discussion of goodwill, see  Note 17: Goodwill. 

Identified
    Intangible Assets   

Intellectual property assets primarily represent rights acquired
    under technology licenses and are generally amortized on a
    straight-line basis over the periods of benefit, ranging from 3
    to 17 years. We amortize acquisition-related developed
    technology based on economic benefit over the estimated useful
    life of 4 years. We amortize other intangible assets that are
    subject to amortization over periods ranging from 1 to 7 years.
    We amortize acquisition-related in-process research and
    development over the estimated useful life once the research and
    development efforts are completed. In the quarter following the
    period in which identified intangible assets become fully
    amortized, the fully amortized balances are removed from the
    gross asset and accumulated amortization amounts.

We perform a quarterly review of identified intangible assets to
    determine if facts and circumstances indicate that the useful
    life is shorter than we had originally estimated or that the
    carrying amount of assets may not be recoverable. If such facts
    and circumstances exist, we assess the recoverability of
    identified intangible assets by comparing the projected
    undiscounted net cash flows associated with the related asset or
    group of assets over their remaining lives against their
    respective carrying amounts. Impairments, if any, are based on
    the excess of the carrying amount over the fair value of those
    assets. If the useful life is shorter than originally estimated,
    we accelerate the rate of amortization and amortize the
    remaining carrying value over the new shorter useful life.

For further discussion of identified intangible assets, see
     Note 18: Identified Intangible Assets. 

Product
    Warranty   

The vast majority of our products are sold with a limited
    warranty on product quality and a limited indemnification for
    customers against intellectual property infringement claims
    related to our products. The accrual and the related expense for
    known product warranty issues were not significant during the
    periods presented. Due to product testing, the short time
    typically between product shipment and the detection and
    correction of product failures, and the historical rate of
    payments on indemnification claims, the accrual and related
    expense for estimated incurred but unidentified issues were not
    significant during the periods presented.

Revenue
    Recognition   

We recognize net product revenue when the earnings process is
    complete, as evidenced by an agreement with the customer,
    transfer of title, and acceptance, if applicable, as well as
    fixed pricing and probable collectability. We record pricing
    allowances, including discounts based on contractual
    arrangements with customers, when we recognize revenue as a
    reduction to both accounts receivable and net revenue. Because
    of frequent sales price reductions and rapid technology
    obsolescence in the industry, we defer product revenue and
    related costs of sales from sales made to distributors under
    agreements allowing price protection or right of return until
    the distributors sell the merchandise. The right of return
    granted generally consists of a stock rotation program in which
    distributors are able to exchange certain products based on the
    number of qualified purchases made by the distributor. Under the
    price protection program, we give distributors credits for the
    difference between the original price paid and the current price
    that we offer. We record the net deferred income from product
    sales to distributors on our balance sheet as deferred income on
    shipments to distributors. We include shipping charges billed to
    customers in net revenue, and include the related shipping costs
    in cost of sales.

Sales of software, primarily through our Wind River Software
    Group, are made through term licenses that are generally 12
    months in length, or perpetual licenses. Revenue is generally
    deferred and recognized ratably over the course of the license.

56

Table of Contents   

INTEL
    CORPORATION 
    NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)  

Advertising   

Cooperative advertising programs reimburse customers for
    marketing activities for certain of our products, subject to
    defined criteria. We accrue cooperative advertising obligations
    and record the costs at the same time that the related revenue
    is recognized. We record cooperative advertising costs as
    marketing, general and administrative expenses to the extent
    that an advertising benefit separate from the revenue
    transaction can be identified and the fair value of that
    advertising benefit received is determinable. We record any
    excess in cash paid over the fair value of the advertising
    benefit received as a reduction in revenue. Advertising costs,
    including direct marketing costs, recorded within marketing,
    general and administrative expenses were $1.8 billion in 2010
    ($1.4 billion in 2009 and $1.9 billion in 2008).

Employee
    Equity Incentive Plans   

We have employee equity incentive plans, which are described
    more fully in  Note 24: Employee Equity Incentive
    Plans.  We use the straight-line attribution method to
    recognize share-based compensation over the service period of
    the award. Upon exercise, cancellation, forfeiture, or
    expiration of stock options, or upon vesting or forfeiture of
    restricted stock units, we eliminate deferred tax assets for
    options and restricted stock units with multiple vesting dates
    for each vesting period on a
     first-in, 
    first-out basis as if each vesting period were a separate award.

Note 3:
    Accounting Changes  

2010  

In the first quarter of 2010, we adopted new standards for
    determining whether to consolidate a variable interest entity.
    These new standards eliminated a mandatory quantitative approach
    in favor of a qualitative analysis, and require an ongoing
    reassessment. The adoption of these new standards did not impact
    our consolidated statements of income or balance sheets.

2009  

In the first quarter of 2009, we adopted new standards that
    changed the accounting for convertible debt instruments with
    cash settlement features. As of adoption, these new standards
    applied to our junior subordinated convertible debentures issued
    in 2005 (the 2005 debentures). Under the previous standards, our
    2005 debentures were recognized entirely as a liability at
    historical value. In accordance with adopting these new
    standards, in 2009 we retrospectively recognized both a
    liability and an equity component of the 2005 debentures at fair
    value. The liability component is recognized as the fair value
    of a similar instrument that does not have a conversion feature
    at issuance. The equity component, which is the value of the
    conversion feature at issuance, is recognized as the difference
    between the proceeds from the issuance of the 2005 debentures
    and the fair value of the liability component, after adjusting
    for the deferred tax impact. The 2005 debentures were issued at
    a coupon rate of 2.95%, which was below that of a similar
    instrument that did not have a conversion feature (6.45%).
    Therefore, the valuation of the debt component, using the income
    approach, resulted in a debt discount. The debt discount is
    reduced over the expected life of the debt, which is also the
    stated life of the debt. These new standards are also applicable
    in accounting for our convertible debt issued during 2009. See
     Note 21: Borrowings  for further discussion.

In the first quarter of 2009, we adopted revised standards for
    business combinations. These revised standards generally require
    an entity to recognize the assets, liabilities, contingencies,
    and contingent consideration at their fair value on the
    acquisition date. For circumstances in which the
    acquisition-date fair value for a contingency cannot be
    determined during the measurement period and it is concluded
    that it is probable that an asset or liability exists as of the
    acquisition date and the amount can be reasonably estimated, a
    contingency is recognized as of the acquisition date based on
    the estimated amount. The revised standards further require that
    acquisition-related costs be recognized separately from the
    acquisition and expensed as incurred, restructuring costs
    generally be expensed in periods subsequent to the acquisition
    date, and changes in estimates for accounting of deferred tax
    asset valuation allowances and acquired income tax uncertainties
    that occur subsequent to the measurement period be reflected in
    income tax expense (benefit). In addition, acquired in-process
    research and development is capitalized as an intangible asset.
    These new standards became applicable to business combinations
    on a prospective basis beginning in the first quarter of 2009.
    Our acquisitions completed during 2010 and 2009 have been
    accounted for using these revised standards. See  Note 15:
    Acquisitions. 

57

Table of Contents   

INTEL
    CORPORATION 
    NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)  

In the first quarter of 2009, we adopted new standards that
    specify the way in which fair value measurements should be made
    for non-financial assets and non-financial liabilities that are
    not measured and recorded at fair value on a recurring basis,
    and specify additional disclosures related to these fair value
    measurements. The adoption of these new standards did not have a
    significant impact on our consolidated financial statements.

In the second quarter of 2009, we adopted new standards that
    provide guidance on how to determine the fair value of assets
    and liabilities when the volume and level of activity for the
    asset/liability have significantly decreased. These new
    standards also provide guidance on identifying circumstances
    that indicate a transaction is not orderly. In addition, we are
    required to disclose in interim and annual periods the inputs
    and valuation techniques used to measure fair value and a
    discussion of changes in valuation techniques. The adoption of
    these new standards did not have a significant impact on our
    consolidated financial statements.

In the second quarter of 2009, we adopted new standards for the
    recognition and measurement of
     other-than-temporary 
    impairments for debt securities that replaced the pre-existing
     intent and ability  indicator. These new standards
    specify that if the fair value of a debt security is less than
    its amortized cost basis, an
     other-than-temporary 
    impairment is triggered in circumstances in which an entity has
    an intent to sell the security, it is more likely than not that
    the entity will be required to sell the security before recovery
    of its amortized cost basis, or the entity does not expect to
    recover the entire amortized cost basis of the security (that
    is, a credit loss exists).
     Other-than-temporary 
    impairments are separated into amounts representing credit
    losses, which are recognized in earnings, and amounts related to
    all other factors, which are recognized in other comprehensive
    income (loss). The adoption of these new standards did not have
    a significant impact on our consolidated financial statements.
    For further discussion, see  Note 7:
     Available-for-Sale 
    Investments. 

In the third quarter of 2009, we adopted amended standards for
    the fair value measurement of liabilities. These amended
    standards clarify that in circumstances in which a quoted price
    in an active market for the identical liability is not
    available, we are required to use the quoted price of the
    identical liability when traded as an asset, quoted prices for
    similar liabilities, or quoted prices for similar liabilities
    when traded as assets. If these quoted prices are not available,
    we are required to use another valuation technique, such as an
    income approach or a market approach. These amended standards
    became effective for us beginning in the fourth quarter of 2009
    and did not have a significant impact on our consolidated
    financial statements.

2008  

In the first quarter of 2008, we adopted new standards for fair
    value measurements for all financial assets and liabilities
    recognized or disclosed at fair value in the consolidated
    financial statements on a recurring basis (at least annually).
    The standards defined fair value, established a framework for
    measuring fair value, and enhanced fair value measurement
    disclosures. The adoption of these new standards did not have a
    significant impact on our consolidated financial statements, and
    the resulting fair values calculated after adoption were not
    significantly different from the fair values that would have
    been calculated under previous guidance. As discussed above, we
    adopted the fair value measurement standards for our
    non-financial assets and liabilities in the first quarter of
    2009. For further discussion of our fair value measurements, see
     Note 5: Fair Value. 

In the first quarter of 2008, we adopted new standards that
    permitted companies to choose to measure certain financial
    instruments and other items at fair value using an
     instrument-by-instrument 
    election. The new standards required unrealized gains and losses
    to be reported in earnings for items measured using the fair
    value option. For further discussion, see  Note 5: Fair
    Value.  These new standards also required cash flows from
    purchases, sales, and maturities of trading securities to be
    classified based on the nature and purpose for which the
    securities were acquired. We assessed the nature and purpose of
    our trading assets and determined that our marketable debt
    instruments will be classified on the statement of cash flows as
    investing activities, as they are held with the purpose of
    generating returns. Activity related to equity securities
    offsetting deferred compensation remained classified as
    operating activities, as they were maintained to offset changes
    in liabilities related to the equity market risk of certain
    deferred compensation arrangements.

58

Table of Contents   

INTEL
    CORPORATION 
    NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)  

In the first quarter of 2008, amended views of the U.S.
    Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC) on the use of the
    simplified method in developing estimates of the expected lives
    of share options became effective for us. The amendment, in
    part, allowed the continued use, subject to specific criteria,
    of the simplified method in estimating the expected lives of
    share options granted after December 31, 2007. We will continue
    to use the simplified method until we have the historical data
    necessary to provide reasonable estimates of expected lives.

In the fourth quarter of 2008, we adopted new standards that
    clarified the application of fair value in a market that is not
    active, and addressed application issues such as the use of
    internal assumptions when relevant observable data does not
    exist, the use of observable market information when the market
    is not active, and the use of market quotes when assessing the
    relevance of observable and unobservable data. The adoption of
    these new standards did not have a significant impact on our
    consolidated financial statements or the fair values of our
    financial assets and liabilities.

Note 4:
    Recent Accounting Standards  

In January 2010, the Financial Accounting Standards Board (FASB)
    issued amended standards that require additional fair value
    disclosures. These amended standards require disclosures about
    inputs and valuation techniques used to measure fair value, as
    well as disclosures about significant transfers, beginning in
    the first quarter of 2010. Additionally, these amended standards
    require presentation of disaggregated activity within the
    reconciliation for fair value measurements using significant
    unobservable inputs (Level 3), beginning in the first quarter of
    2011.

In October 2009, the FASB issued new standards for revenue
    recognition with multiple deliverables. These new standards
    impact the determination of when the individual deliverables
    included in a multiple-element arrangement may be treated as
    separate units of accounting. Additionally, these new standards
    modify the manner in which the transaction consideration is
    allocated across the separately identified deliverables by no
    longer permitting the residual method of allocating arrangement
    consideration. These new standards are required to be adopted in
    the first quarter of 2011. We do not expect these new standards
    to significantly impact our consolidated financial statements.

In October 2009, the FASB issued new standards for the
    accounting for certain revenue arrangements that include
    software elements. These new standards amend the scope of
    pre-existing software revenue guidance by removing from the
    guidance non-software components of tangible products and
    certain software components of tangible products. These new
    standards are required to be adopted in the first quarter of
    2011. We do not expect these new standards to significantly
    impact our consolidated financial statements.

59

Table of Contents   

INTEL
    CORPORATION 
    NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)  

Note 5:
    Fair Value  

Assets/Liabilities
    Measured and Recorded at Fair Value on a Recurring
    Basis   

Assets and liabilities measured and recorded at fair value on a
    recurring basis, excluding accrued interest components,
    consisted of the following types of instruments as of December
    25, 2010 and December 26, 2009:

Government bonds include bonds issued or deemed to be guaranteed
    by U.S. Treasury securities,
     non-U.S. 
    governments, U.S. agency securities, and Federal Deposit
    Insurance Corporation (FDIC)-insured corporate bonds.

60

Table of Contents   

INTEL
    CORPORATION 
    NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)  

Marketable
    Debt Instruments  

Marketable debt instruments include instruments such as
    commercial paper, corporate bonds, government bonds, bank
    deposits, asset-backed securities, municipal bonds, and money
    market fund deposits. When we use observable market prices for
    identical securities that are traded in less active markets, we
    classify our marketable debt instruments as Level 2. When
    observable market prices for identical securities are not
    available, we price our marketable debt instruments using
    non-binding market consensus prices that are corroborated with
    observable market data; quoted market prices for similar
    instruments; or pricing models, such as a discounted cash flow
    model, with all significant inputs derived from or corroborated
    with observable market data. Non-binding market consensus prices
    are based on the proprietary valuation models of pricing
    providers or brokers. These valuation models incorporate a
    number of inputs, including non-binding and binding broker
    quotes; observable market prices for identical or similar
    securities; and the internal assumptions of pricing providers or
    brokers that use observable market inputs and, to a lesser
    degree, unobservable market inputs. We corroborate non-binding
    market consensus prices with observable market data using
    statistical models when observable market data exists. The
    discounted cash flow model uses observable market inputs, such
    as LIBOR-based yield curves, currency spot and forward rates,
    and credit ratings.

Our marketable debt instruments that are classified as Level 3
    are classified as such due to the lack of observable market data
    to corroborate either the non-binding market consensus prices or
    the non-binding broker quotes. When observable market data is
    not available, we corroborate non-binding market consensus
    prices and non-binding broker quotes using available
    unobservable data.

The following tables present reconciliations for all assets and
    liabilities measured and recorded at fair value on a recurring
    basis, excluding accrued interest components, using significant
    unobservable inputs (Level 3) for 2010 and 2009:

61

Table of Contents   

INTEL
    CORPORATION 
    NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)  

For all periods presented, gains and losses (realized and
    unrealized) included in earnings were primarily reported in
    interest and other, net. During 2010 and 2009, we transferred
    corporate bonds from Level 3 to Level 2 due to a greater
    availability of observable market data
     and/or 
    non-binding market consensus prices to value or corroborate the
    value of these instruments. Our policy is to reflect transfers
    in and transfers out at the beginning of the quarter in which a
    change in circumstances resulted in the transfer.

Fair
    Value Option for Financial Assets/Liabilities   

We elected the fair value option for loans made to third parties
    in 2010 and 2009 when the interest rate or foreign exchange rate
    risk was hedged at inception with a related derivative
    instrument. As of December 25, 2010, the fair value of our loans
    receivable for which we elected the fair value option did not
    significantly differ from the contractual principal balance
    based on the contractual currency. These loans receivable are
    classified within other long-term assets. Fair value is
    determined using a discounted cash flow model with all
    significant inputs derived from or corroborated with observable
    market data. Gains and losses from changes in fair value on the
    loans receivable and related derivative instruments, as well as
    interest income, are recorded in interest and other, net. During
    2010 and 2009, changes in the fair value of our loans receivable
    were largely offset by changes in the related derivative
    instruments, resulting in an insignificant net impact on our
    consolidated statements of income. Gains and losses attributable
    to changes in credit risk are determined using observable credit
    default spreads for the issuer or comparable companies and were
    insignificant during 2010 and 2009. We did not elect the fair
    value option for loans when the interest rate or foreign
    exchange rate risk was not hedged at inception with a related
    derivative instrument.

Under accounting standards effective in 2008, all of our
    non-convertible long-term debt was eligible at inception to be
    accounted for at fair value. However, we elected this fair value
    option only for the bonds issued in 2007 by the Industrial
    Development Authority of the City of Chandler, Arizona (2007
    Arizona bonds). In connection with the 2007 Arizona bonds, we
    entered into a total return swap agreement that effectively
    converts the fixed-rate obligation on the bonds to a floating
     U.S.-dollar 
    LIBOR-based rate. As a result, changes in the fair value of this
    debt are largely offset by changes in the fair value of the
    total return swap agreement, without the need to apply hedge
    accounting provisions. The 2007 Arizona bonds are included in
    long-term debt. We did not elect this fair value option for our
    Arizona bonds issued in 2005 (2005 Arizona bonds). We used
    fixed-rate debt securities to offset the risk of changes in fair
    value of the 2005 Arizona bonds. Changes in the fair value of
    the purchased debt securities were reported in other
    comprehensive income. Electing the fair value option for our
    2005 Arizona bonds would have resulted in changes in fair value
    having been recorded in our results of operations without the
    offset from changes in fair value of the debt securities. As of
    December 25, 2010 and December 26, 2009, no other instruments
    were similar to the 2007 Arizona bonds for which we elected fair
    value treatment.

As of December 25, 2010, the fair value of the 2007 Arizona
    bonds did not significantly differ from the contractual
    principal balance. The fair value of the 2007 Arizona bonds was
    determined using inputs that are observable in the market or
    that can be derived from or corroborated with observable market
    data, as well as unobservable inputs that were significant to
    the fair value. Gains and losses on the 2007 Arizona bonds and
    the related total return swap are recorded in interest and
    other, net. We capitalize interest associated with the 2007
    Arizona bonds. We add capitalized interest to the cost of
    qualified assets and amortize it over the estimated useful lives
    of the assets.

62

Table of Contents   

INTEL
    CORPORATION 
    NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)  

Assets
    Measured and Recorded at Fair Value on a Non-Recurring
    Basis   

Our non-marketable equity investments and non-financial assets,
    such as intangible assets and property, plant and equipment, are
    recorded at fair value only if an impairment charge is
    recognized. The following table presents the financial
    instruments and non-financial assets that were measured and
    recorded at fair value on a non-recurring basis during 2010, and
    the gains (losses) recorded during 2010 on those assets:

The following table presents the financial instruments and
    non-financial assets that were measured and recorded at fair
    value on a non-recurring basis during 2009, and the gains
    (losses) recorded during 2009 on those assets:

The following table presents the financial instruments that were
    measured and recorded at fair value on a non-recurring basis
    during 2008, and the gains (losses) recorded during 2008 on
    those assets:

63

Table of Contents   

INTEL
    CORPORATION 
    NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)  

In the preceding tables, the carrying value of our impaired
    non-marketable equity investments may not equal our fair value
    measurement at the time of impairment due to the subsequent
    recognition of equity method adjustments, and the carrying value
    of our impaired property, plant and equipment may not equal our
    fair value measurement at the time of impairment due to the
    subsequent recognition of depreciation expense.

A portion of our non-marketable equity investments were measured
    and recorded at fair value due to events or circumstances that
    significantly impacted the fair value of those investments,
    resulting in
     other-than-temporary 
    impairment charges. We classified these measurements as Level 3,
    as we used unobservable inputs to the valuation methodologies
    that were significant to the fair value measurements, and the
    valuations required management judgment due to the absence of
    quoted market prices. We determine the fair value of our
    non-marketable equity investments using the market and income
    approaches. The market approach includes the use of financial
    metrics and ratios of comparable public companies. The selection
    of comparable companies requires management judgment and is
    based on a number of factors, including comparable
    companies  sizes, growth rates, industries, development
    stages, and other relevant factors. The income approach includes
    the use of a discounted cash flow model, which requires the
    following significant estimates for the investee: revenue, based
    on assumed market segment size and assumed market segment share;
    costs; and discount rates based on the risk profile of
    comparable companies. Estimates of market segment size, market
    segment share, and costs are developed by the investee
     and/or  Intel
    using historical data and available market data. The valuation
    of these non-marketable equity investments also takes into
    account variables such as conditions reflected in the capital
    markets, recent financing activities by the investees, the
    investees  capital structure, and the terms of the
    investees  issued interests.

During 2008, we recorded a $762 million impairment charge on our
    investment in Clearwire Communications, LLC (Clearwire LLC) to
    write down our investment to its fair value, primarily due to
    the fair value being significantly lower than the cost basis of
    our investment. The impairment charge was included in gains
    (losses) on equity method investments, net. We determine the
    fair value of our investment in Clearwire LLC primarily using
    the quoted prices for its parent company, Clearwire Corporation.
    The effects of adjusting the quoted price for premiums that we
    believe market participants would consider for Clearwire LLC,
    such as tax benefits and voting rights associated with our
    investments, were mostly offset by the effects of discounts to
    the fair value, such as those due to transfer restrictions, lack
    of liquidity, and differences in dividend rights that are
    included in the value of Clearwire Corporation stock. We
    classified our investment in Clearwire LLC as Level 2, as the
    unobservable inputs to the valuation methodology were not
    significant to the measurement of fair value. For further
    information about Clearwire LLC and Clearwire Corporation, see
     Note 11: Equity Method and Cost Method Investments. 

We recorded a $250 million impairment charge on our investment
    in Numonyx during 2008 to write down our investment to its fair
    value. Estimates for revenue, earnings, and future cash flows
    were revised lower due to a general decline in the NOR flash
    memory market segment in 2008. We measured the fair value of our
    investment in Numonyx using a combination of the income approach
    and the market approach. The income approach included the use of
    a weighted average of multiple discounted cash flow scenarios of
    Numonyx, which required the use of unobservable inputs,
    including assumptions of projected revenue, expenses, capital
    spending, and other costs, as well as a discount rate calculated
    based on the risk profile of the flash memory market segment
    comparable to our investment in Numonyx. The market approach
    included the use of financial metrics and ratios, such as
    multiples of revenue and earnings of comparable public
    companies. The impairment charge was included in gains (losses)
    on equity method investments, net.

Additionally, certain of our property, plant and equipment was
    measured and recorded at fair value during 2010 and 2009 due to
    events or circumstances we identified that indicated that the
    carrying value of the assets or the asset grouping was not
    recoverable, resulting in impairment charges. Most of these
    asset impairments related to manufacturing assets.

Financial
    Instruments Not Recorded at Fair Value on a Recurring
    Basis   

We measure the fair value of our non-marketable equity
    investments, marketable equity method investment, debt carried
    at amortized cost, and cost method loans receivable quarterly
    for disclosure purposes; however, they are recorded at fair
    value only if an impairment charge is recognized. The carrying
    amounts and fair values of financial instruments not recorded at
    fair value on a recurring basis as of December 25, 2010 and
    December 26, 2009 were as follows:

64

Table of Contents   

INTEL
    CORPORATION 
    NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)  

Our non-marketable equity investments as of December 26, 2009
    included our investment in Numonyx. We sold our ownership
    interest in Numonyx to Micron in the second quarter of 2010. As
    of December 26, 2009, the fair value was based on
    management s assessment using a combination of the income
    approach and the market approach. For further information, see
     Note 11: Equity Method and Cost Method Investments. 

As of December 25, 2010, we had non-marketable equity
    investments in an unrealized loss position of $10 million that
    had a fair value of $95 million (unrealized loss position of $30
    million on non-marketable equity investments with a fair value
    of $205 million as of December 26, 2009).

Our marketable equity method investment is our ownership
    interest in SMART Technologies, Inc. The fair value of our
    ownership interest in SMART was $167 million based on the quoted
    closing stock price as of December 25, 2010. For further
    information, see  Note 11: Equity Method and Cost Method
    Investments. 

The carrying amount and fair value of loans receivable exclude
    $642 million of loans measured and recorded at fair value as of
    December 25, 2010 ($249 million as of December 26, 2009). The
    carrying amount and fair value of long-term debt exclude $128
    million of long-term debt measured and recorded at fair value as
    of December 25, 2010 ($123 million as of December 26, 2009). The
    carrying amount and fair value of the current portion of
    long-term debt are included in long-term debt in the preceding
    table.

The fair value of our loans receivable is determined using a
    discounted cash flow model, with all significant inputs derived
    from or corroborated with observable market data. The fair value
    of our long-term debt takes into consideration variables such as
    credit-rating changes and interest rate changes. The credit
    quality of our loans receivable remains high, with credit
    ratings of A/A2 or better as of December 25, 2010.

Note 6:
    Trading Assets  

Trading assets outstanding as of December 25, 2010 and December
    26, 2009 were as follows:

Net losses on marketable debt instruments classified as trading
    assets still held at the reporting date were $50 million in 2010
    (gains of $91 million in 2009 and losses of $132 million in
    2008). Net gains on the related derivatives were $43 million in
    2010 (gains of $18 million in 2009 and losses of $5 million in
    2008).

In 2010, we sold our ownership in Numonyx to Micron. The Micron
    shares that we received in the transaction are classified as
    marketable equity securities within trading assets. For further
    information, see  Note 11: Equity Method and Cost Method
    Investments.  Net losses on marketable equity securities
    classified as trading assets still held at the reporting date,
    excluding the impacts of the related derivatives, were $14
    million in 2010.

During 2009, we sold our equity securities offsetting deferred
    compensation, which were classified as trading assets, and
    entered into derivative instruments that seek to offset changes
    in liabilities related to those deferred compensation
    arrangements. The deferred compensation liabilities were $646
    million as of December 25, 2010 ($511 million as of December 26,
    2009) and are included in other accrued liabilities. See
     Note 8: Derivative Financial Instruments  for further
    information on our equity market risk management programs. Net
    losses on equity securities offsetting deferred compensation
    arrangements still held at the reporting date were $209 million
    in 2008.

65

Table of Contents   

INTEL
    CORPORATION 
    NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)  

Note 7:
     Available-for-Sale 
    Investments  

Available-for-sale 
    investments as of December 25, 2010 and December 26, 2009 were
    as follows:

In the preceding table, government bonds include bonds issued or
    deemed to be guaranteed by U.S. Treasury securities,
     non-U.S. 
    governments, U.S. agency securities, and FDIC-insured corporate
    bonds. Bank deposits were primarily issued by institutions
    outside the U.S. as of December 25, 2010 and December 26, 2009.

As of December 25, 2010, $12 million of the $19 million gross
    unrealized losses were related to individual securities that had
    been in a continuous loss position for 12 months or more ($26
    million of the $33 million as of December 26, 2009).

The amortized cost and fair value of
     available-for-sale 
    debt investments as of December 25, 2010, by contractual
    maturity, were as follows:

Instruments not due at a single maturity date in the preceding
    table include asset-backed securities and money market fund
    deposits.

We sold
     available-for-sale 
    investments for proceeds of $475 million in 2010 ($192 million
    in 2009 and $1.2 billion in 2008). The gross realized gains on
    sales of
     available-for-sale 
    investments were $160 million in 2010 ($43 million in 2009 and
    $38 million in 2008) and were primarily related to our sales of
    marketable equity securities. Gains on third-party merger
    transactions during 2010 were insignificant ($56 million in 2009
    and insignificant in 2008).

Impairment charges recognized on
     available-for-sale 
    investments were insignificant in 2010 and 2009 ($354 million in
    2008). The 2008 impairment charges were primarily related to a
    $176 million impairment charge on our investment in Clearwire
    Corporation and $97 million of impairment charges on our
    investment in Micron. Gross realized losses recognized on
     available-for-sale 
    investments were $13 million in 2010 ($64 million in 2009 and
    insignificant in 2008). We had previously recognized
     other-than-temporary 
    impairments totaling $34 million during 2008 and 2009 on the
    investments that were sold in 2009.

Note 8:
    Derivative Financial Instruments  

Our primary objective for holding derivative financial
    instruments is to manage currency exchange rate risk and
    interest rate risk, and, to a lesser extent, equity market risk
    and commodity price risk. We currently do not hold derivative
    instruments for the purpose of managing credit risk since we
    limit the amount of credit exposure to any one counterparty and
    generally enter into derivative transactions with
    high-credit-quality counterparties.

66

Table of Contents   

INTEL
    CORPORATION 
    NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)  

Currency
    Exchange Rate Risk   

We are exposed to currency exchange rate risk and generally
    hedge our exposures with currency forward contracts, currency
    options, or currency interest rate swaps. Substantially all of
    our revenue and a majority of our expense and capital purchasing
    activities are transacted in U.S. dollars. However, certain
    operating expenditures and capital purchases are incurred in or
    exposed to other currencies, primarily the Japanese yen, the
    euro, and the Israeli shekel. We have established balance sheet
    and forecasted transaction currency risk management programs to
    protect against fluctuations in fair value and the volatility of
    future cash flows caused by changes in exchange rates. Our
     non-U.S.-dollar-denominated 
    investments in debt instruments and loans receivable are
    generally hedged with offsetting currency forward contracts or
    currency interest rate swaps. These programs reduce, but do not
    entirely eliminate, the impact of currency exchange movements.

Our currency risk management programs include:

Currency derivatives with cash flow hedge accounting
    designation  that utilize currency forward contracts and
    currency options to hedge exposures to the variability in the
     U.S.-dollar 
    equivalent of anticipated
     non-U.S.-dollar-denominated 
    cash flows. These instruments generally mature within 12 months.
    All of our currency forward contracts are settled at maturity
    involving one cash-payment exchange. For these derivatives, we
    report the after-tax gain or loss from the effective portion of
    the hedge as a component of accumulated other comprehensive
    income (loss) and reclassify it into earnings in the same period
    or periods in which the hedged transaction affects earnings, and
    within the same line item on the consolidated statements of
    income as the impact of the hedged transaction.

Currency derivatives without hedge accounting designation
     that utilize currency forward contracts or currency interest
    rate swaps to economically hedge the functional currency
    equivalent cash flows of recognized monetary assets and
    liabilities and
     non-U.S.-dollar-denominated 
    debt instruments classified as trading assets. The maturity of
    these instruments generally occurs within 12 months, except for
    derivatives associated with certain long-term equity-related
    investments and our loans receivable that generally mature
    within five years. The currency interest rate swaps are settled
    at various interest payment times involving cash payments at
    each interest and principal payment date, with the majority of
    the contracts having quarterly payments. Changes in the
     U.S.-dollar-equivalent 
    cash flows of the underlying assets and liabilities are
    approximately offset by the changes in fair values of the
    related derivatives. We record net gains or losses in the line
    item on the consolidated statements of income most closely
    associated with the economic underlying, primarily in interest
    and other, net, except for equity-related gains or losses, which
    we primarily record in gains (losses) on other equity
    investments, net.

Interest
    Rate Risk   

Our primary objective for holding investments in debt
    instruments is to preserve principal while maximizing yields. We
    generally swap the returns on our investments in fixed-rate debt
    instruments with remaining maturities longer than six months
    into
     U.S.-dollar 
    three-month LIBOR-based returns, unless management specifically
    approves otherwise. These swaps are settled at various interest
    payment times involving cash payments at each interest and
    principal payment date, with the majority of the contracts
    having quarterly payments.

Our interest rate risk management programs include:

Interest rate derivatives with cash flow hedge accounting
    designation  that utilize interest rate swap agreements to
    modify the interest characteristics of debt instruments. For
    these derivatives, we report the after-tax gain or loss from the
    effective portion of the hedge as a component of accumulated
    other comprehensive income (loss) and reclassify it into
    earnings in the same period or periods in which the hedged
    transaction affects earnings, and within the same line item on
    the consolidated statements of income as the impact of the
    hedged transaction.

Interest rate derivatives without hedge accounting
    designation  that utilize interest rate swaps and currency
    interest rate swaps in economic hedging transactions, including
    hedges of
     non-U.S.-dollar-denominated 
    debt instruments classified as trading assets. Floating interest
    rates on the swaps are reset on a monthly, quarterly, or
    semiannual basis. Changes in fair value of the debt instruments
    classified as trading assets are generally offset by changes in
    fair value of the related derivatives, both of which are
    recorded in interest and other, net.

67

Table of Contents   

INTEL
    CORPORATION 
    NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)  

Equity
    Market Risk   

Our marketable investments include marketable equity securities
    and equity derivative instruments. To the extent that our
    marketable equity securities have strategic value, we typically
    do not attempt to reduce or eliminate our equity market exposure
    through hedging activities. We may enter into transactions to
    reduce or eliminate the equity market risks for our investments
    in strategic equity derivative instruments. For securities that
    we no longer consider strategic, we evaluate legal, market, and
    economic factors in our decision on the timing of disposal and
    whether it is possible and appropriate to hedge the equity
    market risk. Our equity market risk management program includes
    equity derivatives without hedge accounting designation that
    utilize warrants, equity options, or other equity derivatives.
    We recognize changes in the fair value of such derivatives in
    gains (losses) on other equity investments, net. We also utilize
    total return swaps to offset changes in liabilities related to
    the equity market risks of certain deferred compensation
    arrangements. Gains and losses from changes in fair value of
    these total return swaps are generally offset by the gains and
    losses on the related liabilities, both of which are recorded in
    interest and other, net.

In 2010, we sold our ownership interest in Numonyx to Micron for
    consideration consisting of shares of Micron. We have entered
    into equity options that economically hedge our remaining
    ownership interest in Micron. For further information, see
     Note 11: Equity Method and Cost Method Investments. 

Commodity
    Price Risk   

We operate facilities that consume commodities, and have
    established forecasted transaction risk management programs to
    protect against fluctuations in fair value and the volatility of
    future cash flows caused by changes in commodity prices, such as
    those for natural gas. These programs reduce, but do not always
    entirely eliminate, the impact of commodity price movements.

Our commodity price risk management program includes commodity
    derivatives with cash flow hedge accounting designation that
    utilize commodity swap contracts to hedge future cash flow
    exposures to the variability in commodity prices. These
    instruments generally mature within 12 months. For these
    derivatives, we report the after-tax gain (loss) from the
    effective portion of the hedge as a component of accumulated
    other comprehensive income (loss) and reclassify it into
    earnings in the same period or periods in which the hedged
    transaction affects earnings, and within the same line item on
    the consolidated statements of income as the impact of the
    hedged transaction.

Volume
    of Derivative Activity   

Total gross notional amounts for outstanding derivatives
    (recorded at fair value) as of December 25, 2010, December 26,
    2009, and December 27, 2008 were as follows:

68

Table of Contents   

INTEL
    CORPORATION 
    NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)  

The gross notional amounts for currency forwards, currency
    interest rate swaps, and currency options (presented by
    currency) as of December 25, 2010, December 26, 2009, and
    December 27, 2008 were as follows:

Credit-Risk-Related
    Contingent Features   

An insignificant amount of our derivative instruments contain
    credit-risk-related contingent features, such as provisions that
    require our debt to maintain an investment-grade credit rating
    from each of the major credit-rating agencies. As of December
    25, 2010 and December 26, 2009, we did not have any derivative
    instruments with credit-risk-related contingent features that
    were in a significant net liability position.

Fair
    Values of Derivative Instruments in the Consolidated Balance
    Sheets   

The fair values of our derivative instruments as of December 25,
    2010 and December 26, 2009 were as follows:

69

Table of Contents   

INTEL
    CORPORATION 
    NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)  

Derivatives
    in Cash Flow Hedging Relationships   

The before-tax effects of derivative instruments in cash flow
    hedging relationships for the three years ended December 25,
    2010 were as follows:

Gains and losses on derivative instruments in cash flow hedging
    relationships related to hedge ineffectiveness and amounts
    excluded from effectiveness testing were insignificant during
    all periods presented in the preceding tables. We estimate that
    we will reclassify approximately $110 million (before taxes) of
    net derivative gains included in other accumulated comprehensive
    income (loss) into earnings within the next 12 months. For all
    periods presented, there was an insignificant impact on results
    of operations from discontinued cash flow hedges as a result of
    forecasted transactions that did not occur.

Derivatives
    Not Designated as Hedging Instruments   

The effects of derivative instruments not designated as hedging
    instruments on the consolidated statements of income for the
    three years ended December 25, 2010 were as follows:

Note 9:
    Concentrations of Credit Risk  

Financial instruments that potentially subject us to
    concentrations of credit risk consist principally of investments
    in debt instruments, derivative financial instruments, loans
    receivable, and trade receivables. We enter into master netting
    arrangements with counterparties when possible to mitigate
    credit risk in derivative transactions. A master netting
    arrangement may allow counterparties to net settle amounts owed
    to each other as a result of multiple, separate derivative
    transactions. For presentation on our consolidated balance
    sheets, we do not offset fair value amounts recognized for
    derivative instruments under master netting arrangements.

We generally place investments with high-credit-quality
    counterparties and, by policy, limit the amount of credit
    exposure to any one counterparty based on our analysis of that
    counterparty s relative credit standing. Substantially all
    of our investments in debt instruments are with A/A2 or better
    rated issuers, and a substantial majority of the issuers are
    rated AA-/Aa3 or better. Our investment policy requires
    substantially all investments with original maturities at the
    time of investment of up to six months to be rated at least
     A-2/P-2  by
    Standard   Poor s/Moody s, and specifies a higher
    minimum rating for investments with longer maturities. For
    instance, investments with maturities of greater than three
    years require a minimum rating of AA-/Aa3 at the time of
    investment. Government regulations imposed on investment
    alternatives of our
     non-U.S. 
    subsidiaries, or the absence of A rated counterparties in
    certain countries, result in some minor exceptions.
    Credit-rating criteria for derivative instruments are similar to
    those for other investments. The amounts subject to credit risk
    related to derivative instruments are generally limited to the
    amounts, if any, by which the counterparty s obligations
    exceed our obligations with that counterparty. As of December
    25, 2010, the total credit exposure to any single counterparty,
    excluding U.S. Treasury securities, did not exceed $500 million.
    We obtain and secure available collateral from counterparties
    against obligations, including securities lending transactions,
    when we deem it appropriate.

70

Table of Contents   

INTEL
    CORPORATION 
    NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)  

A substantial majority of our trade receivables are derived from
    sales to original equipment manufacturers and original design
    manufacturers. We also have accounts receivable derived from
    sales to industrial and retail distributors. Our two largest
    customers accounted for 38% of net revenue for 2010, 2009, and
    2008. Additionally, these two largest customers accounted for
    44% of our accounts receivable as of December 25, 2010 and 41%
    of our accounts receivable as of December 26, 2009. We believe
    that the receivable balances from these largest customers do not
    represent a significant credit risk based on cash flow
    forecasts, balance sheet analysis, and past collection
    experience.

We have adopted credit policies and standards intended to
    accommodate industry growth and inherent risk. We believe that
    credit risks are moderated by the financial stability of our
    major customers. We assess credit risk through quantitative and
    qualitative analysis, and from this analysis, we establish
    credit limits and determine whether we will seek to use one or
    more credit support devices, such as obtaining some form of
    third-party guarantee or standby letter of credit, or obtaining
    credit insurance for all or a portion of the account balance if
    necessary.

Note 10:
    Other Long-Term Assets  

Other long-term assets as of December 25, 2010 and December 26,
    2009 were as follows:

Note 11:
    Equity Method and Cost Method Investments  

Equity
    Method Investments   

Equity method investments as of December 25, 2010 and December
    26, 2009 were as follows:

IMFT/IMFS  

Micron and Intel formed IM Flash Technologies, LLC (IMFT) in
    January 2006 and IM Flash Singapore, LLP (IMFS) in February
    2007. We established these joint ventures to manufacture NAND
    flash memory products for Micron and Intel. As of December 25,
    2010, we own a 49% interest in IMFT and a 22% interest in IMFS.
    Our investment in IMFT/IMFS was $1.5 billion as of December 25,
    2010 ($1.6 billion as of December 26, 2009). The IMFS
    fabrication facility is in its
     start-up 
    phase with initial production expected in the first half of
    2011. Intel has made limited additional investments in 2010,
    resulting in the decline of our ownership interest in IMFS from
    49% as of December 26, 2009. We will assess any additional
    investments in IMFS based on market conditions. IMFT and IMFS
    are each governed by a Board of Managers, with Micron and Intel
    initially appointing an equal number of managers to each of the
    boards. The number of managers appointed by each party adjusts
    depending on the parties  ownership interests. As a result
    of the reduction of our ownership interest in IMFS, Micron now
    appoints the majority of the managers on the IMFS board. These
    ventures will operate until 2016 but are subject to earlier
    termination under certain terms and conditions.

71

Table of Contents   

INTEL
    CORPORATION 
    NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)  

These joint ventures are variable interest entities. All costs
    of the joint ventures will be passed on to Micron and Intel
    through our purchase agreements. IMFT and IMFS are dependent
    upon Micron and Intel for any additional cash requirements. Our
    known maximum exposure to loss approximated our investment
    balance in IMFT/IMFS as of December 25, 2010. Our investment in
    these ventures is classified within other long-term assets. As
    of December 25, 2010, except for the amount due to IMFT/IMFS for
    product purchases and services, we did not incur any additional
    liabilities in connection with our interests in these joint
    ventures. In addition to the potential loss of our existing
    investment, our actual losses could be higher, as Intel and
    Micron are liable for other future operating costs or
    obligations of IMFT/IMFS. In addition, future cash calls could
    increase our investment balance and the related exposure to
    loss. Finally, as we are currently committed to purchasing 49%
    of IMFT s and 47% of IMFS s production output and
    production-related services, we may be required to purchase
    products at a cost in excess of realizable value. Our
    contractual commitment to purchase product output and fund
    production-related services adjusts to changes in our ownership
    percentage on a one-year lag.

Our portion of IMFT costs, primarily related to product
    purchases and production-related services, was approximately
    $735 million during 2010 and 2009 (approximately $1.1 billion
    during 2008). The amount due to IMFT for product purchases and
    services provided was approximately $95 million as of December
    25, 2010 (approximately $75 million as of December 26, 2009).
    During 2010, $197 million was returned to Intel by IMFT, which
    is reflected as a return of equity method investment within
    investing activities on the consolidated statements of cash
    flows ($419 million during 2009 and $298 million during 2008).
    In 2010, IMFT increased its capital expenditures compared to
    2009. The cash used for those capital expenditures reduced the
    amount of cash provided by IMFT to us as a return of equity
    method investment in 2010.

Under the accounting standards for consolidating variable
    interest entities, the consolidating investor is the entity with
    the power to direct the activities of the venture that most
    significantly impact the venture s economic performance and
    with the obligation to absorb losses or the right to receive
    benefits from the venture that could potentially be significant
    to the venture. We have determined that we do not have both of
    these characteristics and, therefore, we account for our
    interests using the equity method of accounting.

Clearwire
    Communications, LLC  

In 2008, we invested $1.0 billion in Clearwire LLC, a wholly
    owned subsidiary of Clearwire Corporation. In the fourth quarter
    of 2009, we invested an additional $50 million. Our investment
    in Clearwire LLC is accounted for under the equity method of
    accounting, and our proportionate share of the income or loss is
    recognized on a one-quarter lag. During 2010, we recognized $116
    million of equity method losses. During 2009, we recorded $27
    million of equity method losses, which was net of a gain of $37
    million as a result of a dilution of our ownership interest from
    the additional investment. Due to the one-quarter lag, we did
    not record equity method adjustments related to Clearwire LLC
    during 2008. During 2008, we recorded a $762 million impairment
    charge on our investment in Clearwire LLC to write down our
    investment to its fair value. The impairment charge was included
    in gains (losses) on equity method investments, net. For further
    discussion, see  Note 5: Fair Value. 

As of December 25, 2010, our investment balance in Clearwire LLC
    was $145 million and is classified within other long-term assets
    ($261 million as of December 26, 2009). As of December 25, 2010,
    the carrying value of our investment in Clearwire LLC was $297
    million below our share of the book value of the net assets of
    Clearwire Corporation, and a substantial majority of this
    difference has been attributed to Clearwire Corporation s
    spectrum assets, a majority of which have an indefinite life.

SMART
    Technologies, Inc.  

We hold an equity interest in SMART and account for our interest
    using the equity method of accounting. As of December 25, 2010,
    our carrying value in SMART was $31 million and was classified
    within other long-term assets. In 2010, SMART completed an
    initial public offering of shares approved for listing on The
    NASDAQ Global Select Market*. We sold approximately 10 million
    of our 27.5 million shares in the secondary offering. We
    recognized a gain of $181 million on the initial public offering
    and subsequent sale of our shares in the secondary offering,
    which is included in gains (losses) on equity method
    investments, net.

Numonyx
    B.V.  

In 2008, we divested our NOR flash memory business in exchange
    for a 45.1% ownership interest in Numonyx. For further
    discussion, see  Note 16: Divestitures.  Our initial
    ownership interest, comprising common stock and a note
    receivable, was recorded at $821 million. Our investment was
    accounted for under the equity method of accounting, and our
    proportionate share of the income or loss was recognized on a
    one-quarter lag. During 2010, we recognized $42 million of
    equity method gains ($31 million of equity method losses in 2009
    and $87 million in 2008) within gains (losses) on equity method
    investments, net. In 2008, we also recorded a $250 million
    impairment charge on our investment in Numonyx within gains
    (losses) on equity method investments, net. For further
    discussion, see  Note 5: Fair Value. 

72

Table of Contents   

INTEL
    CORPORATION 
    NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)  

As of December 26, 2009, our investment balance in Numonyx was
    $453 million and was classified within other long-term assets.
    During 2010, we sold our ownership interest in Numonyx to Micron
    and recognized a gain on the sale of $91 million, which is
    included in gains (losses) on equity method investments, net. In
    exchange for our investment in Numonyx, we received 57.9 million
    shares of Micron common stock, with an additional 8.6 million
    shares held in escrow for 12 months after the sale, and we
    issued a $72 million short-term note payable.

In the fourth quarter of 2010, we sold 21.5 million shares of
    Micron common stock, which consisted of the 8.6 million shares
    held in escrow and an additional 12.9 million shares received in
    the sale of Numonyx. The proceeds from the sale of the escrow
    shares are classified as a receivable within other current
    assets. The remaining 45 million Micron shares are classified
    within trading assets. We have equity options that economically
    hedge these remaining shares.

In 2008, Numonyx entered into an unsecured, four-year senior
    credit facility of up to $550 million, consisting of a $450
    million term loan and a $100 million revolving loan. Intel and
    STMicroelectronics N.V. had each provided the lenders with a
    guarantee of 50% of the payment obligations of Numonyx under the
    senior credit facility. The Numonyx senior credit facility that
    was supported by our guarantee was repaid in connection with the
    closing of Micron s acquisition of Numonyx.

Intel-GE
    Care Innovations, LLC  

Subsequent to the end of 2010, Intel and General Electric
    Company (GE) formed an equally owned joint venture in the
    healthcare industry that will focus on independent living and
    delivery of health-related services via telecommunications. The
    new company was formed by combining assets of GE
    Healthcare s Home Health division and Intel s Digital
    Health Group. As a result of the formation of the joint venture,
    we expect to recognize a gain of approximately $165 million in
    the first quarter of 2011 that will be recorded in interest and
    other, net.

Cost
    Method Investments   

The carrying value of our non-marketable cost method investments
    was $872 million as of December 25, 2010 and $939 million as of
    December 26, 2009. In 2010, we recognized impairment charges on
    non-marketable cost method investments of $109 million within
    gains (losses) on other equity investments, net ($179 million in
    2009 and $135 million in 2008).

Note 12:
    Gains (Losses) on Equity Method Investments, Net  

Gains (losses) on equity method investments, net included:

During 2010, we recognized a gain of $33 million on the initial
    public offering of SMART, included within  Equity method
    losses, net,  and a gain of $148 million on the subsequent
    sale of our shares in a secondary offering, included in
     Other, net,  resulting in a total gain of $181
    million. In addition, during 2010 we recognized a gain of $91
    million on the sale of our ownership interest in Numonyx,
    included in  Other, net  in the preceding table. For
    further information, see  Note 11: Equity Method and Cost
    Method Investments. 

Note 13:
    Gains (Losses) on Other Equity Investments, Net  

Gains (losses) on other equity investments, net included:

73

Table of Contents   

INTEL
    CORPORATION 
    NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)  

Note 14:
    Interest and Other, Net  

The components of interest and other, net were as follows:

Note 15:
    Acquisitions  

Consideration for acquisitions that qualify as business
    combinations includes the net cash paid and the fair value of
    any vested share-based awards assumed. During 2010, we completed
    three business acquisitions qualifying as business combinations
    in exchange for aggregate net cash consideration of $218
    million. Substantially all of the consideration was allocated to
    goodwill and intangibles.

During the third quarter of 2009, we completed two acquisitions
    qualifying as business combinations for total consideration of
    $885 million (net of $59 million cash acquired). Substantially
    all of this amount related to the acquisition of Wind River
    Systems, Inc., a vendor of software for embedded devices,
    completed by acquiring all issued and outstanding Wind River
    Systems common shares. The objective of the acquisition of Wind
    River Systems was to enable the introduction of products for the
    embedded and handheld market segments, resulting in benefits for
    our existing operations.

The combined consideration for acquisitions completed during
    2009 was allocated as follows:

For information on the assignment of goodwill for the
    acquisitions completed in 2010 and 2009, see  Note 17:
    Goodwill.  The completed acquisitions in 2010 and 2009 both
    individually and in the aggregate were not significant to our
    consolidated results of operations.

First
    Quarter 2011 Acquisition of Wireless Solutions Business of
    Infineon Technologies AG   

On January 31, 2011, we completed the acquisition of the
    Wireless Solutions (WLS) business of Infineon. Total net cash
    consideration to acquire the WLS business is estimated at $1.4
    billion. The acquired business will operate as Intel Mobile
    Communications and offer mobile phone components such as
    baseband processors, radio frequency transceivers, and power
    management chips. The objective of the acquisition is to provide
    solutions that enable a broad range of computing applications to
    have wireless connectivity.

Due to the relatively short time from the date of acquisition to
    the completion of these financial statements, the initial
    accounting for the acquisition is not complete. The preliminary
    evaluation of the fair value for certain significant assets and
    liabilities, including goodwill and intangibles, is not
    complete. The goodwill recognized is expected to be deductible
    for tax purposes. Since the pro forma revenue and earnings are
    dependent on the purchase price allocation, we are unable to
    provide unaudited pro forma information for the year ended
    December 25, 2010. We will provide the preliminary purchase
    price allocation and pro forma information with our
     10-Q  for the
    first quarter of 2011.

We are still evaluating the organization structure and reporting
    of Intel Mobile Communications, as well as its related impact on
    our reportable segment disclosures.

74

Table of Contents   

INTEL
    CORPORATION 
    NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)  

Pending
    Acquisition of McAfee, Inc.   

In the third quarter of 2010, we entered into a definitive
    agreement to acquire McAfee, and expect to complete the
    acquisition in the first quarter of 2011. Upon completion of the
    acquisition and subject to certain exceptions, each outstanding
    share of McAfee common stock and each share of McAfee common
    stock subject to restricted stock awards, vested restricted
    stock unit awards, and vested performance stock unit awards will
    be converted into the right to receive $48.00 in cash. As of the
    date we entered into the agreement, the transaction had an
    approximate value of $7.68 billion. Subject to certain
    exceptions, McAfee options, unvested restricted stock units, and
    unvested performance units outstanding prior to the completion
    of the agreement will be converted into Intel stock options and
    restricted stock units, as applicable, based on formulas set
    forth in the agreement. The transaction is subject to customary
    closing conditions.

Note 16:
    Divestitures  

During the second quarter of 2008, we completed the divestiture
    of our NOR flash memory business. We exchanged certain NOR flash
    memory assets and certain assets associated with our phase
    change memory initiatives with Numonyx for a note receivable
    with a contractual amount of $144 million and a 45.1% ownership
    interest in the form of common stock, together valued at $821
    million. Approximately 2,500 employees of our NOR flash memory
    business became employees of Numonyx. We did not incur a gain or
    loss upon completion of the transaction in the second quarter of
    2008, as we had recorded asset impairment charges in quarters
    prior to deal closure. For further discussion, see  Note
    19: Restructuring and Asset Impairment Charges.  Subsequent
    to the divestiture, in the third quarter of 2008 we recorded a
    $250 million impairment charge on our investment in Numonyx
    within gains (losses) on equity method investments, net. During
    2010, we sold our ownership interest in Numonyx to Micron. For
    further information, see  Note 11: Equity Method and Cost
    Method Investments. 

During the first quarter of 2008, we completed the divestiture
    of a portion of the telecommunications-related assets of our
    optical platform division. Consideration for the divestiture was
    $85 million, including $75 million in cash and common shares of
    the acquiring company, with an estimated value of $10 million at
    the date of purchase. We entered into an agreement with the
    acquiring company to provide certain manufacturing and
    transition services for a limited time that has since been
    completed. During the first quarter of 2008, as a result of this
    divestiture, we recorded a net gain of $39 million within
    interest and other, net. During the second quarter of 2008, we
    completed the sale of the remaining portion of our optical
    platform division for common shares of the acquiring company
    with an estimated value of $27 million at the date of purchase.
    Overall, approximately 100 employees of our optical products
    business became employees of the acquiring company.

Note 17:
    Goodwill  

Goodwill activity for the years ended December 25, 2010 and
    December 26, 2009 was as follows:

75

Table of Contents   

INTEL
    CORPORATION 
    NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)  

At the end of 2009, we reorganized our business to better align
    our major product groups around the core competencies of Intel
    architecture and our manufacturing operations. Due to this
    reorganization, goodwill was allocated from our prior operating
    segments to our new operating segments, as shown in the
    preceding table under transfers. The allocation was based on the
    fair value of each business group within its original operating
    segment relative to the fair value of that operating segment.
    During 2009, prior to our reorganization, we completed two
    acquisitions, including the acquisition of Wind River Systems
    (see  Note 15: Acquisitions  for further discussion).
    Goodwill recognized from the Wind River Systems acquisition was
    assigned to our Digital Enterprise Group, our Mobility Group,
    our Digital Home Group, and our Wind River Software Group based
    on the relative expected fair value provided by the acquisition.
    Our Wind River Software Group is included in the other operating
    segments category in the preceding table, while our Digital Home
    Group is included in the other Intel architecture operating
    segments category. The assignment of goodwill to our Digital
    Enterprise Group, our Mobility Group, and our Digital Home Group
    was based on the proportionate benefits expected to be generated
    for each group resulting from enhanced market presence for
    existing businesses.

During 2010, we completed three acquisitions. The goodwill
    recognized from these acquisitions was assigned to our Digital
    Home Group, our Software and Services Group, our Ultra-Mobility
    Group, our PC Client Group, and our Embedded and Communications
    Group. Our Software and Services Group is included in the other
    operating segments category in the preceding table, while our
    Digital Home Group, our Ultra-Mobility Group, and our Embedded
    and Communications Group are all included in the other Intel
    architecture operating segments category.

After completing our annual impairment reviews during the fourth
    quarter of 2010, 2009, and 2008, we concluded that goodwill was
    not impaired in any of these years. As of December 25, 2010,
    accumulated impairment losses in total were $713 million: $355
    million associated with our PC Client Group, $279 million
    associated with our Data Center Group, and $79 million
    associated with other Intel architecture operating segments.

Note 18:
    Identified Intangible Assets  

We classify identified intangible assets within other long-term
    assets on the consolidated balance sheets. Identified intangible
    assets consisted of the following as of December 25, 2010 and
    December 26, 2009:

As a result of our acquisitions in 2010, we recorded
    acquisition-related developed technology for $37 million with
    lives of four years, and additions to other intangible assets of
    $70 million with a weighted average life of six years. The
    substantial majority of other intangible assets recorded as a
    result of our acquisitions in 2010 were associated with customer
    relationships. In addition, we acquired other intangible assets
    that are not subject to amortization for $96 million in 2010.

During 2009, we acquired intellectual property assets for $99
    million with a weighted average life of six years. During 2009,
    as a result of our acquisition of Wind River Systems, we
    recorded acquisition-related developed technology for $148
    million with a weighted average life of four years, and
    additions to other intangible assets of $169 million with a
    weighted average life of seven years. The substantial majority
    of other intangible assets recorded were associated with
    customer relationships and the Wind River Systems trade name.
    The remaining amount of other intangible assets was related to
    acquired in-process research and development.

76

Table of Contents   

INTEL
    CORPORATION 
    NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)  

We recorded the amortization of identified intangible assets on
    the consolidated statements of income as cost of sales,
    amortization of acquisition-related intangibles, or a reduction
    of revenue.

Amortization expenses for the three years ended December 25,
    2010 were as follows:

Based on identified intangible assets that are subject to
    amortization as of December 25, 2010, we expect amortization
    expenses for each period to be as follows:

Note 19:
    Restructuring and Asset Impairment Charges  

The following table summarizes restructuring and asset
    impairment charges by plan for the three years ended December
    25, 2010:

2009
    Restructuring Program   

In the first quarter of 2009, management approved plans to
    restructure some of our manufacturing and assembly and test
    operations. These plans included closing two assembly and test
    facilities in Malaysia, one facility in the Philippines, and one
    facility in China; stopping production at a 200mm wafer
    fabrication facility in Oregon; and ending production at our
    200mm wafer fabrication facility in California. The 2009
    restructuring program is complete. The following table
    summarizes charges for the 2009 restructuring program for the
    two years ended December 25, 2010:

77

Table of Contents   

INTEL
    CORPORATION 
    NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)  

The following table summarizes the restructuring and asset
    impairment activity for the 2009 restructuring program during
    2009 and 2010:

Under the 2009 restructuring program, we incurred $208 million
    of charges related to employee severance and benefit
    arrangements for approximately 6,500 employees.

2008
    NAND Plan   

In the fourth quarter of 2008, management approved a plan with
    Micron to discontinue the supply of NAND flash memory from the
    200mm facility within the IMFT manufacturing network. The
    agreement resulted in a $215 million restructuring charge,
    primarily related to the IMFT 200mm supply agreement. The
    restructuring charge resulted in a reduction of our investment
    in IMFT/IMFS of $184 million, a cash payment to Micron of $24
    million, and other cash payments of $7 million. The 2008 NAND
    plan was completed at the end of 2008.

2006
    Efficiency Program   

In the third quarter of 2006, management approved several
    actions as part of a restructuring plan designed to improve
    operational efficiency and financial results. The following
    table summarizes charges for the 2006 efficiency program for the
    three years ended December 25, 2010:

During 2006, as part of our assessment of our worldwide
    manufacturing capacity operations, we placed for sale our
    fabrication facility in Colorado Springs, Colorado. As a result
    of placing the facility for sale, in 2006 we recorded a $214
    million impairment charge to write down to fair value the land,
    building, and equipment. We incurred $54 million in additional
    asset impairment charges as a result of market conditions
    related to the Colorado Springs facility during 2007 and
    additional charges in 2008. We sold the Colorado Springs
    facility in 2009.

We incurred $85 million in asset impairment charges related to
    assets that we sold in conjunction with the divestiture of our
    NOR flash memory business in 2007, and an additional $275
    million in 2008. We determined the impairment charges based on
    the fair value, less selling costs, that we expected to receive
    upon completion of the divestiture in 2007, and determined the
    impairment charges based on the revised fair value of the equity
    and note receivable that we received upon completion of the
    divestiture, less selling costs, in 2008. For further
    information on this divestiture, see  Note 16:
    Divestitures. 

78

Table of Contents   

INTEL
    CORPORATION 
    NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)  

The following table summarizes the restructuring and asset
    impairment activity for the 2006 efficiency program during 2009:

The 2006 efficiency program is complete. From the third quarter
    of 2006 through 2009, we incurred a total of $1.6 billion in
    restructuring and asset impairment charges related to this
    program. These charges included a total of $686 million related
    to employee severance and benefit arrangements for 11,300
    employees, and $896 million in asset impairment charges.

Note 20:
    Chipset Design Issue  

In January 2011, as part of our ongoing quality assurance
    procedures, we identified a design issue with the
    Intel   

    6 Series Express Chipset family (formerly code-named Cougar
    Point). The issue affected chipsets sold in the fourth quarter
    of 2010 and January 2011. We subsequently implemented a silicon
    fix, and began shipping the updated version of the affected
    chipset in February 2011. We estimate that the total cost to
    repair and replace affected materials and systems, located with
    customers and in the market, will be approximately $660 million.
    We recorded a charge of $311 million in the fourth quarter of
    2010, which comprised $67 million in product costs for the
    affected chipsets and $244 million to establish a product
    accrual for this issue. We expect to recognize an additional
    charge of approximately $350 million in the first quarter of
    2011, primarily related to an additional product accrual for the
    estimated costs to repair and replace affected materials and
    systems associated with products sold in January 2011. The
    charges incurred in the fourth quarter of 2010 are reflected in
    the results of the PC Client Group operating segment.

Note 21:
    Borrowings  

Short-Term
    Debt   

Short-term debt included drafts payable of $38 million as of
    December 25, 2010 (current portion of long-term debt of $157
    million and drafts payable of $15 million as of December 26,
    2009). We have an ongoing authorization from our Board of
    Directors to borrow up to $3.0 billion, including through the
    issuance of commercial paper. Maximum borrowings under our
    commercial paper program during 2010 were $150 million ($610
    million during 2009). We did not have outstanding commercial
    paper as of December 25, 2010 and December 26, 2009. Our
    commercial paper was rated
     A-1+  by
    Standard   Poor s and
     P-1  by
    Moody s as of December 25, 2010.

Long-Term
    Debt   

Our long-term debt as of December 25, 2010 and December 26, 2009
    was as follows:

79

Table of Contents   

INTEL
    CORPORATION 
    NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)  

Convertible
    Debentures  

In 2009, we issued $2.0 billion of junior subordinated
    convertible debentures (the 2009 debentures) due in 2039. In
    2005, we issued $1.6 billion of junior subordinated convertible
    debentures (the 2005 debentures) due in 2035. Both the 2009 and
    2005 debentures pay a fixed rate of interest semiannually. We
    capitalized all interest associated with these debentures during
    the periods presented.

The effective interest rate is based on the rate for a similar
    instrument that does not have a conversion feature.

Both the 2009 and 2005 debentures have a contingent interest
    component that will require us to pay interest based on certain
    thresholds and for certain events commencing on August 1, 2019
    and December 15, 2010, for the 2009 and 2005 debentures,
    respectively. The fair values of the related embedded
    derivatives were $12 million and $19 million as of December 25,
    2010 for the 2009 and 2005 debentures, respectively ($15 million
    and $24 million as of December 26, 2009 for the 2009 and 2005
    debentures, respectively).

Both the 2009 and 2005 debentures are convertible, subject to
    certain conditions, into shares of our common stock. Holders can
    surrender the 2009 debentures for conversion if the closing
    price of Intel common stock has been at least 130% of the
    conversion price then in effect for at least 20 trading days
    during the 30 consecutive
     trading-day 
    period ending on the last trading day of the preceding fiscal
    quarter. Holders can surrender the 2005 debentures for
    conversion at any time. We will settle any conversion or
    repurchase of the 2009 debentures in cash up to the face value,
    and any amount in excess of face value will be settled in cash
    or stock at our option. However, we can settle any conversion or
    repurchase of the 2005 debentures in cash or stock at our
    option. On or after August 5, 2019, we can redeem, for cash, all
    or part of the 2009 debentures for the principal amount, plus
    any accrued and unpaid interest, if the closing price of Intel
    common stock has been at least 150% of the conversion price then
    in effect for at least 20 trading days during any 30 consecutive
     trading-day 
    period prior to the date on which we provide notice of
    redemption. On or after December 15, 2012, we can redeem, for
    cash, all or part of the 2005 debentures for the principal
    amount, plus any accrued and unpaid interest, if the closing
    price of Intel common stock has been at least 130% of the
    conversion price then in effect for at least 20 trading days
    during any 30 consecutive
     trading-day 
    period prior to the date on which we provide notice of
    redemption. If certain events occur in the future, the
    indentures governing the 2009 and 2005 debentures provide that
    each holder of the debentures can, for a pre-defined period of
    time, require us to repurchase the holder s debentures for
    the principal amount plus any accrued and unpaid interest. Both
    the 2009 and 2005 debentures are subordinated in right of
    payment to any future senior debt and to the other liabilities
    of our subsidiaries. We have concluded that both the 2009 and
    2005 debentures are not conventional convertible debt
    instruments and that the embedded stock conversion options
    qualify as derivatives. In addition, we have concluded that the
    embedded conversion options would be classified in
    stockholders  equity if they were freestanding derivative
    instruments. As such, the embedded conversion options are not
    accounted for separately as derivatives.

In the preceding table, the remaining amortization periods for
    the unamortized discounts for the 2009 and 2005 debentures are
    approximately 29 and 25 years, respectively, as of December 25,
    2010.

80

Table of Contents   

INTEL
    CORPORATION 
    NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)  

The conversion rate adjusts for certain events outlined in the
    indentures governing the 2009 and 2005 debentures, such as
    quarterly dividend distributions in excess of $0.14 and $0.10
    per share, for the 2009 and 2005 debentures, respectively, but
    does not adjust for accrued interest. In addition, the
    conversion rate will increase for a holder of either the 2009 or
    2005 debentures who elects to convert the debentures in
    connection with certain share exchanges, mergers, or
    consolidations involving Intel.

Arizona
    Bonds  

In 2007, we guaranteed repayment of principal and interest on
    bonds issued by the Industrial Development Authority of the City
    of Chandler, Arizona, which constitute an unsecured general
    obligation for Intel. The aggregate principal amount of the
    bonds issued in December 2007 is $125 million due in 2037, and
    the bonds bear interest at a fixed rate of 5.3%. The 2007
    Arizona bonds are subject to mandatory tender, at our option, on
    any interest payment date beginning on or after December 1, 2012
    until their final maturity on December 1, 2037. Upon such
    tender, we can re-market the bonds as either fixed-rate bonds
    for a specified period or as variable-rate bonds until their
    final maturity. We also entered into a total return swap
    agreement that effectively converts the fixed-rate obligation on
    the bonds to a floating
     U.S.-dollar 
    LIBOR-based rate. We have elected to account for the 2007
    Arizona bonds at fair value. For further discussion, see
     Note 5: Fair Value. 

In 2005, we guaranteed repayment of principal and interest on
    bonds issued by the Industrial Development Authority of the City
    of Chandler, Arizona, which constitutes an unsecured general
    obligation for Intel. The principal amount, excluding the
    premium, of the bonds issued in 2005 was $157 million. The 2005
    Arizona bonds were mandatorily tendered and repaid on November
    30, 2010. The bonds bore interest at a fixed rate of 4.375%. In
    the future, we may re-market the bonds as either fixed-rate
    bonds for a specified period or as variable-rate bonds until
    their final maturity on December 1, 2035.

As of December 25, 2010, our aggregate debt maturities based on
    outstanding principal were as follows (in millions):

Substantially all of the difference between the total aggregate
    debt maturities above and the total carrying amount of our debt
    is due to the unamortized discount of our convertible debentures.

81

Table of Contents   

INTEL
    CORPORATION 
    NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)  

Note 22:
    Retirement Benefit Plans  

Retirement
    Contribution Plans   

We provide tax-qualified retirement contribution plans for the
    benefit of eligible employees, former employees, and retirees in
    the U.S. and certain other countries. The plans, which are
    funded by annual discretionary contributions from Intel, are
    designed to provide employees with an accumulation of funds for
    retirement on a tax-deferred basis. Our Chief Executive Officer
    (CEO) determines the amounts to be contributed to the U.S. Intel
    Retirement Contribution Plan, formerly known as the U.S. Profit
    Sharing Plan, under delegation of authority from our Board of
    Directors, pursuant to the terms of the U.S. Intel Retirement
    Contribution Plan. As of December 25, 2010, 56% of our U.S.
    Intel Retirement Contribution Plan was invested in equities, 38%
    was invested in fixed-income instruments, and 6% was invested in
    real assets. A substantial majority of assets are managed by
    external investment managers.

For the benefit of eligible U.S. employees, we also provide a
    non-tax-qualified supplemental deferred compensation plan for
    certain highly compensated employees. This plan is designed to
    permit certain discretionary employer contributions and to
    permit employee deferral of a portion of compensation in
    addition to their Intel 401(k) Savings Plan deferrals. This plan
    is unfunded.

We expensed $319 million for the qualified and non-qualified
    U.S. Intel Retirement Contribution Plan in 2010 ($260 million in
    2009 and $289 million in 2008). In the first quarter of 2011, we
    funded $297 million for the 2010 contribution to the qualified
    U.S. Intel Retirement Contribution Plan.

Pension
    and Postretirement Benefit Plans   

U.S. Pension Benefits.  We provide a tax-qualified
    defined-benefit pension plan, the U.S. Intel Minimum Pension
    Plan, for the benefit of eligible employees, former employees,
    and retirees in the U.S. The U.S. Intel Minimum Pension Plan
    benefit is determined by a participant s years of service
    and final average compensation (taking into account the
    participant s social security wage base), reduced by the
    participant s balance in the U.S. Intel Retirement
    Contribution Plan (which is funded by discretionary employer
    contributions). The plan generates a minimum pension benefit if
    the participant s U.S. Intel Minimum Pension Plan benefit
    exceeds the annuitized value of his or her U.S. Intel Retirement
    Contribution Plan benefit. If participant balances in the U.S.
    Intel Retirement Contribution Plan do not grow sufficiently, the
    projected benefit obligation of the U.S. Intel Minimum Pension
    Plan could increase significantly.

As of January 1, 2011 (the effective date), Intel closed its
    U.S. Intel Minimum Pension Plan and U.S. Intel Retirement
    Contribution Plan to employees hired on or after the effective
    date. Employees hired on or after the effective date will
    receive discretionary employer contributions via the Intel
    401(k) Savings Plan.

Non-U.S. 
    Pension Benefits.  We also provide defined-benefit pension
    plans in certain other countries. Consistent with the
    requirements of local law, we deposit funds for certain plans
    with insurance companies, with third-party trustees, or into
    government-managed accounts,
     and/or 
    accrue for the unfunded portion of the obligation.

U.S. Postretirement Medical Benefits.  Upon retirement,
    eligible U.S. employees are credited with a defined dollar
    amount, based on years of service, into a U.S. Sheltered
    Employee Retirement Medical Account (SERMA). In 2010, we
    approved a plan amendment, effective January 1, 2011, to
    expand use of these credits to pay all or a portion of the cost
    to purchase coverage in the retiree s choice of medical
    plan. Prior to 2011, these credits could only be used to pay all
    or a portion of the cost to purchase coverage in an
    Intel-sponsored medical plan. If the available credits are not
    sufficient to pay the entire cost of the coverage, the remaining
    cost is the retiree s responsibility.

Funding Policy.  Our practice is to fund the various
    pension plans and the U.S. postretirement medical benefits plan
    in amounts sufficient to meet the minimum requirements of U.S.
    federal laws and regulations or applicable local laws and
    regulations. Additional funding may be provided as deemed
    appropriate. Depending on the design of the plan, local customs,
    and market circumstances, the liabilities of a plan may exceed
    qualified plan assets.

82

Table of Contents   

INTEL
    CORPORATION 
    NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)  

Benefit
    Obligation and Plan Assets   

The changes in the benefit obligations and plan assets for the
    plans described above were as follows:

The following table summarizes the amounts recognized on the
    consolidated balance sheets as of December 25, 2010 and December
    26, 2009:

83

Table of Contents   

INTEL
    CORPORATION 
    NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)  

The following table summarizes the amounts recorded to
    accumulated other comprehensive income (loss) before taxes, as
    of December 25, 2010 and December 26, 2009:

As of December 25, 2010, the accumulated benefit obligation was
    $284 million for the U.S. Intel Minimum Pension Plan ($270
    million as of December 26, 2009) and $632 million for the
     non-U.S. 
    defined-benefit pension plans ($511 million as of December 26,
    2009). Included in the aggregate data in the following tables
    are the amounts applicable to our pension plans, with
    accumulated benefit obligations in excess of plan assets, as
    well as plans with projected benefit obligations in excess of
    plan assets. Amounts related to such plans as of
    December 25, 2010 and December 26, 2009 were as
    follows:

Assumptions   

Weighted average actuarial assumptions used to determine benefit
    obligations for the plans as of December 25, 2010 and
    December 26, 2009 were as follows:

Weighted average actuarial assumptions used to determine costs
    for the plans were as follows:

84

Table of Contents   

INTEL
    CORPORATION 
    NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)  

For the U.S. plans, we developed the discount rate by
    calculating the benefit payment streams by year to determine
    when benefit payments will be due. We then matched the benefit
    payment streams by year to the AA corporate bond rates to match
    the timing and amount of the expected benefit payments and
    discounted back to the measurement date to determine the
    appropriate discount rate. For the
     non-U.S. 
    plans, we used two approaches to develop the discount rate. In
    certain countries, we used a model consisting of a theoretical
    bond portfolio for which the timing and amount of cash flows
    approximated the estimated benefit payments of our pension
    plans. In other countries, we analyzed current market long-term
    bond rates and matched the bond maturity with the average
    duration of the pension liabilities. The expected long-term rate
    of return on plan assets assumptions take into consideration
    both duration and risk of the investment portfolios, and are
    developed through consensus and building-block methodologies.
    The consensus methodology includes unadjusted estimates by the
    fund manager on future market expectations by broad asset
    classes and geography. The building-block approach determines
    the rates of return implied by historical risk premiums across
    asset classes. In addition, we analyzed rates of return relevant
    to the country where each plan is in effect and the investments
    applicable to the plan, expectations of future returns, local
    actuarial projections, and the projected long-term rates of
    return from external investment managers. The expected long-term
    rate of return on plan assets shown for the
     non-U.S. 
    plan assets is weighted to reflect each country s relative
    portion of the
     non-U.S. 
    plan assets.

Net
    Periodic Benefit Cost   

The net periodic benefit cost for the plans included the
    following components:

U.S.
    Pension Plan Assets   

In general, the investment strategy for U.S. Intel Minimum
    Pension Plan assets is to maximize risk-adjusted returns, taking
    into consideration the investment horizon and expected
    volatility, to ensure that there are sufficient assets available
    to pay pension benefits as they come due. When deemed
    appropriate, we may invest a portion of the funds in futures
    contracts for the purpose of acting as a temporary substitute
    for an investment in a particular equity security. The fund does
    not engage in speculative futures transactions. The allocation
    to each asset class will fluctuate with market conditions, such
    as volatility and liquidity concerns, and will typically be
    rebalanced when outside the target ranges, which are 80% to 90%
    for fixed-income debt instrument investments and 10% to 20% for
    domestic and international equity fund investments. The expected
    long-term rate of return for the U.S. Intel Minimum Pension Plan
    assets is 5.5%.

85

Table of Contents   

INTEL
    CORPORATION 
    NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)  

U.S. Intel Minimum Pension Plan assets measured at fair value on
    a recurring basis consisted of the following investment
    categories as of December 25, 2010 and December 26, 2009:

The  U.S. treasuries  category in the preceding tables
    represents two common collective trust funds that seek to
    replicate the performance of the Barclays Capital U.S. 1 3
    Year Treasury Bond Index and Barclays Capital U.S. 1 3 Year
    Agency Bond Index over the long term.

The  U.S. corporate bonds  category in the preceding
    tables represents a common collective trust fund that seeks to
    replicate the performance of the Barclays Capital U.S. 1 3
    Year Credit Bond Index over the long term.

The Global Bond Fund s target allocation is approximately
    40% of assets in government and high-quality corporate bonds and
    asset-backed securities to mitigate risks related to deflation,
    15% in global inflation-indexed bonds to provide protection from
    inflation, and another 15% in international government and
    corporate bonds. The residual 30% of the fund is allocated to
    opportunistic bond investments, which are used to enhance return
    and provide diversification. Such opportunistic bond investments
    include emerging market debt instruments with un-hedged currency
    exposure, high-yield investments, asset- and mortgage-backed
    securities, and corporate credit.

86

Table of Contents   

INTEL
    CORPORATION 
    NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)  

Non-U.S. 
    Plan Assets   

The investments of the
     non-U.S. 
    plans are managed by insurance companies, third-party trustees,
    or pension funds, consistent with regulations or market practice
    of the country where the assets are invested. The investment
    manager makes investment decisions within the guidelines set by
    Intel or local regulations. The investment manager evaluates
    performance by comparing the actual rate of return to the return
    on other similar assets. Investments managed by qualified
    insurance companies or pension funds under standard contracts
    follow local regulations, and we are not actively involved in
    their investment strategies. For the assets that we have
    discretion to set investment guidelines, the assets are invested
    in developed country equities and fixed-income debt instruments,
    either through index funds or direct investment. In general, the
    investment strategy is designed to accumulate a diversified
    portfolio among markets, asset classes, or individual securities
    in order to reduce market risk and assure that the pension
    assets are available to pay benefits as they come due. The
    average expected long-term rate of return for the
     non-U.S. 
    plan assets is 6.4%.

Non-U.S. 
    plan assets measured at fair value on a recurring basis
    consisted of the following investment categories as of December
    25, 2010 and December 26, 2009:

The majority of the assets in the  Global equities 
    category in the preceding tables are invested in a diversified
    mix of equities of developed countries, including the U.S., and
    emerging markets throughout the world.

Investment assets managed by qualified insurance companies (the
     Investments held by insurance companies  and
     Insurance contracts  categories in the preceding
    tables) are invested as part of the insurance companies 
    general fund. We do not have control over the target allocation
    or visibility of the investment strategies of those investments.
    Insurance contracts and investments held by insurance companies
    made up 36% of total
     non-U.S. 
    plan assets as of December 25, 2010 (35% as of December 26,
    2009).

87

Table of Contents   

INTEL
    CORPORATION 
    NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)  

The following table presents a reconciliation for the
     non-U.S. 
    plan assets measured at fair value on a recurring basis using
    significant unobservable inputs (Level 3) for 2010:

The target allocation of the
     non-U.S. 
    plan assets that we have control over is 61% equity securities
    and 39% fixed-income instruments.

U.S.
    Postretirement Medical Plan Assets   

In general, the investment strategy for U.S. postretirement
    medical benefits plan assets is to primarily invest in liquid
    assets due to the level of expected future benefit payments. The
    expected long-term rate of return for the U.S. postretirement
    medical benefits plan assets is 3.0%. As of December 25, 2010,
    all of the U.S. postretirement medical benefits plan assets were
    invested in a money market fund that complies with Rule
     2A-7  of the
    Investment Company Act of 1940, and were measured at fair value
    using Level 1 inputs.

Concentrations
    of Risk   

We manage a variety of risks, including market, credit, and
    liquidity risks, across our plan assets through our investment
    managers. We define a concentration of risk as an undiversified
    exposure to one of the above-mentioned risks that increases the
    exposure of the loss of plan assets unnecessarily. We monitor
    exposure to such risks in both the U.S. and
     non-U.S. 
    plans by monitoring the magnitude of the risk in each plan and
    diversifying our exposure to such risks across a variety of
    instruments, markets, and counterparties. As of December 25,
    2010, we did not have concentrations of risk in any single
    entity, manager, counterparty, sector, industry, or country.

Funding
    Expectations   

Under applicable law for the U.S. Intel Minimum Pension Plan, we
    are not required to make any contributions during 2011. Our
    expected funding for the
     non-U.S. 
    plans during 2011 is approximately $55 million. We expect
    employer contributions to the U.S. postretirement medical
    benefits plan to be approximately $1 million during 2011.

Estimated
    Future Benefit Payments   

We expect the average benefits to be paid through 2020 from the
    U.S. and
     non-U.S. 
    pension plans and the U.S. postretirement medical benefits plan
    to be approximately $90 million annually.

Note 23:
    Commitments  

A portion of our capital equipment and certain facilities are
    under operating leases that expire at various dates through
    2028. Additionally, portions of our land are under leases that
    expire at various dates through 2062. Rental expense was $124
    million in 2010 ($120 million in 2009 and $141 million in 2008).

88

Table of Contents   

INTEL
    CORPORATION 
    NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)  

Minimum rental commitments under all non-cancelable leases with
    an initial term in excess of one year were as follows as of
    December 25, 2010 (in millions):

Commitments for construction or purchase of property, plant and
    equipment totaled $4.6 billion as of December 25, 2010 ($1.8
    billion as of December 26, 2009), most of which will be due
    within the next year. Other purchase obligations and commitments
    totaled approximately $600 million as of December 25, 2010
    (approximately $900 million as of December 26, 2009). Other
    purchase obligations and commitments include payments due under
    various types of licenses, agreements to purchase raw materials
    or other goods, and payments due under non-contingent funding
    obligations. Funding obligations include, for example,
    agreements to fund various projects with other companies. In
    addition, we have various contractual commitments with Micron
    and IMFT/IMFS. For further information on these contractual
    commitments, see  Note 11: Equity Method and Cost Method
    Investments. 

Note 24:
    Employee Equity Incentive Plans  

Our equity incentive plans are broad-based, long-term programs
    intended to attract and retain talented employees and align
    stockholder and employee interests.

In May 2009, stockholders approved an extension of the 2006
    Equity Incentive Plan (the 2006 Plan). Stockholders approved 134
    million additional shares for issuance, increasing the total
    shares of common stock available for issuance as equity awards
    to employees and non-employee directors to 428 million shares.
    The approval also extended the expiration date of the 2006 Plan
    to June 2012. The maximum number of shares to be awarded as
    non-vested shares (restricted stock) or non-vested share units
    (restricted stock units) increased to 253 million shares. As of
    December 25, 2010, 190 million shares remained available for
    future grant under the 2006 Plan. We may assume the equity
    incentive plans and the outstanding equity awards of certain
    acquired companies. Once they are assumed, we do not grant
    additional shares under those plans.

Also in May 2009, stockholders approved an employee stock option
    exchange program (Option Exchange) to give employees (not listed
    officers) the opportunity to exchange eligible stock options for
    a lesser number of new stock options that have approximately the
    same fair value as the options surrendered, as of the date of
    the exchange. The Option Exchange commenced on September 28,
    2009 and expired on October 30, 2009. Eligible options included
    stock options granted under any Intel stock option or equity
    incentive plan between October 1, 2000 and September 28, 2008
    that had an exercise price above $20.83, which was the 52-week
    closing-price high as of October 30, 2009. A total of 217
    million eligible stock options were tendered and cancelled in
    exchange for 83 million new stock options granted. The new stock
    options have an exercise price of $19.04, which is equal to the
    market price of Intel common stock (defined as the average of
    the high and low trading prices) on October 30, 2009. The new
    stock options were issued under the 2006 Plan and are subject to
    its terms and conditions. The new stock options vest in equal
    annual increments over a four-year period from the date of grant
    and will expire seven years from the grant date. Using the
    Black-Scholes option pricing model, we determined that the fair
    value of the surrendered stock options on a
     grant-by-grant 
    basis was approximately equal, as of the date of the exchange,
    to the fair value of the eligible stock options exchanged,
    resulting in insignificant incremental share-based compensation.

In 2009, we began issuing restricted stock units with both a
    market condition and a service condition (market-based
    restricted stock units), referred to in our 2010 Proxy Statement
    as outperformance stock units, to a small group of senior
    officers and non-employee directors. The number of shares of
    Intel common stock to be received at vesting will range from 33%
    to 200% of the target amount, based on total stockholder return
    (TSR) on Intel common stock measured against the benchmark TSR
    of a peer group over a three-year period. TSR is a measure of
    stock price appreciation plus any dividends paid in this
    performance period. As of December 25, 2010, there were 3
    million market-based restricted stock units outstanding. These
    market-based restricted stock units accrue dividend equivalents
    and vest three years and one month from the grant date.

In connection with our 2009 acquisition of Wind River Systems,
    we assumed the company s equity incentive plans and issued
    replacement awards in 2009. The stock options and restricted
    stock units issued generally retain the terms and conditions of
    the respective plans under which they were originally granted.
    We will not grant additional shares under these plans.

89

Table of Contents   

INTEL
    CORPORATION 
    NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)  

Equity awards granted to employees in 2010 under our equity
    incentive plans generally vest over 4 years from the date of
    grant, and options expire 7 years from the date of grant, with
    the exception of market-based restricted stock units and
    replacement awards related to acquisitions. Equity awards
    granted to key officers, senior-level employees, and key
    employees in 2010 may have delayed vesting beginning 3 to 5
    years from the date of grant, and these options expire 7 to 10
    years from the date of grant.

The 2006 Stock Purchase Plan allows eligible employees to
    purchase shares of our common stock at 85% of the value of our
    common stock on specific dates. Under the 2006 Stock Purchase
    Plan, we made 240 million shares of common stock available for
    issuance through August 2011. As of December 25, 2010, 140
    million shares were available for issuance under the 2006 Stock
    Purchase Plan.

Share-Based
    Compensation   

Share-based compensation recognized in 2010 was $917 million
    ($889 million in 2009 and $851 million in 2008).

On a quarterly basis, we assess changes to our estimate of
    expected equity award forfeitures based on our review of recent
    forfeiture activity and expected future employee turnover. We
    recognize the effect of adjustments made to the forfeiture
    rates, if any, for all expense amortization after January 1,
    2006 in the period that we change the forfeiture estimate. The
    effect of forfeiture adjustments in 2008, 2009, and 2010 was not
    significant.

The total share-based compensation cost capitalized as part of
    inventory as of December 25, 2010 was $48 million ($33 million
    as of December 26, 2009 and $46 million as of December 27,
    2008). During 2010, the tax benefit that we realized for the tax
    deduction from share-based awards totaled $266 million ($119
    million in 2009 and $147 million in 2008).

We estimate the fair value of restricted stock unit awards with
    time-based vesting using the value of our common stock on the
    date of grant, reduced by the present value of dividends
    expected to be paid on our common stock prior to vesting. We
    estimate the fair value of market-based restricted stock units
    using a Monte Carlo simulation model on the date of grant. We
    based the weighted average estimated values of restricted stock
    unit grants, as well as the weighted average assumptions that we
    used in calculating the fair value, on estimates at the date of
    grant, as follows:

We use the Black-Scholes option pricing model to estimate the
    fair value of options granted under our equity incentive plans
    and rights to acquire stock granted under our stock purchase
    plan. We based the weighted average estimated values of employee
    stock option grants (excluding stock option grants in connection
    with the Option Exchange in 2009) and rights granted under the
    stock purchase plan, as well as the weighted average assumptions
    used in calculating these values, on estimates at the date of
    grant, as follows:

We base the expected volatility on implied volatility, because
    we have determined that implied volatility is more reflective of
    market conditions and a better indicator of expected volatility
    than historical volatility. We use the simplified method of
    calculating expected life, due to significant differences in the
    vesting terms and contractual life of current option grants
    compared to our historical grants.

90

Table of Contents   

INTEL
    CORPORATION 
    NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)  

Restricted
    Stock Unit Awards   

Information with respect to outstanding restricted stock unit
    (RSU) activity is as follows:

The aggregate fair value of awards that vested in 2010 was $808
    million ($320 million in 2009 and $270 million in 2008), which
    represents the market value of Intel common stock on the date
    that the restricted stock units vested. The grant date fair
    value of awards that vested in 2010 was $612 million ($407
    million in 2009 and $239 million in 2008). The number of
    restricted stock units vested includes shares that we withheld
    on behalf of employees to satisfy the minimum statutory tax
    withholding requirements. Restricted stock units that are
    expected to vest are net of estimated future forfeitures.

As of December 25, 2010, there was $1.2 billion in unrecognized
    compensation costs related to restricted stock units granted
    under our equity incentive plans. We expect to recognize those
    costs over a weighted average period of 1.3 years.

Stock
    Option Awards   

As of December 25, 2010, options outstanding that have vested
    and are expected to vest are as follows:

Aggregate intrinsic value represents the difference between the
    exercise price and $20.84, the closing price of Intel common
    stock on December 23, 2010, as reported on The NASDAQ Global
    Select Market, for all
     in-the-money 
    options outstanding. Options outstanding that are expected to
    vest are net of estimated future option forfeitures.

Options with a fair value of $240 million completed vesting
    during 2010 ($288 million during 2009 and $459 million during
    2008). As of December 25, 2010, there was $220 million in
    unrecognized compensation costs related to stock options granted
    under our equity incentive plans. We expect to recognize those
    costs over a weighted average period of 1.2 years.

91

Table of Contents   

INTEL
    CORPORATION 
    NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)  

Additional information with respect to stock option activity is
    as follows:

The aggregate intrinsic value of stock option exercises in 2010
    was $65 million ($13 million in 2009 and $101 million in 2008),
    which represents the difference between the exercise price and
    the value of Intel common stock at the time of exercise. Grants
    in 2009 include new stock options granted in connection with the
    Option Exchange.

The following table summarizes information about options
    outstanding as of December 25, 2010:

These options will expire if they are not exercised by specific
    dates through January 2020. Option exercise prices for options
    exercised during the three-year period ended December 25, 2010
    ranged from $0.05 to $27.27.

Stock
    Purchase Plan   

Approximately 75% of our employees were participating in our
    stock purchase plan as of December 25, 2010. Employees purchased
    17.2 million shares in 2010 for $281 million under the 2006
    Stock Purchase Plan (30.9 million shares for $344 million in
    2009 and 25.9 million shares for $453 million in 2008). As of
    December 25, 2010, there was $13 million in unrecognized
    compensation costs related to rights to acquire common stock
    under our stock purchase plan. We expect to recognize those
    costs over a weighted average period of one month.

92

Table of Contents   

INTEL
    CORPORATION 
    NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)  

Note 25:
    Common Stock Repurchases  

Common
    Stock Repurchase Program   

As of December 25, 2010, we had an ongoing authorization,
    amended in November 2005, from our Board of Directors to
    repurchase up to $25 billion in shares of our common stock in
    open market or negotiated transactions, and $4.2 billion
    remained available for repurchase under the existing repurchase
    authorization limit. In January 2011, our Board of Directors
    increased the repurchase authorization limit by $10 billion.
    During 2010, we repurchased 70.3 million shares of common stock
    at a cost of $1.5 billion. During 2009, we utilized the majority
    of the proceeds from the issuance of the 2009 debentures to
    repurchase 88.2 million shares of common stock at a cost of $1.7
    billion (for further information on the issuance of the 2009
    debentures, see  Note 21: Borrowings ). We repurchased
    324 million shares at a cost of $7.1 billion during 2008. We
    have repurchased 3.4 billion shares at a cost of $70 billion
    since the program began in 1990. Our repurchases in 2010 and
    2009 and a portion of our purchases in 2008 were executed in
    privately negotiated transactions.

Restricted
    Stock Unit Withholdings   

We issue restricted stock units as part of our equity incentive
    plans. For the majority of restricted stock units granted, the
    number of shares issued on the date the restricted stock units
    vest is net of the minimum statutory withholding requirements
    that we pay in cash to the appropriate taxing authorities on
    behalf of our employees. During 2010, we withheld 10.1 million
    shares (5.8 million shares during 2009 and 3.5 million shares
    during 2008) to satisfy $236 million ($92 million during 2009
    and $78 million during 2008) of employees  tax obligations.
    Although shares withheld are not issued, they are treated as
    common stock repurchases in our consolidated financial
    statements, as they reduce the number of shares that would have
    been issued upon vesting.

Note 26:
    Earnings Per Share  

We computed our basic and diluted earnings per common share as
    follows:

We computed our basic earnings per common share using net income
    available to common stockholders and the weighted average number
    of common shares outstanding during the period. We computed
    diluted earnings per common share using net income available to
    common stockholders and the weighted average number of common
    shares outstanding plus potentially dilutive common shares
    outstanding during the period. Net income available to
    participating securities was insignificant for all periods
    presented.

Potentially dilutive common shares from employee incentive plans
    are determined by applying the treasury stock method to the
    assumed exercise of outstanding stock options, the assumed
    vesting of outstanding restricted stock units, and the assumed
    issuance of common stock under the stock purchase plan.
    Potentially dilutive common shares are determined by applying
    the if-converted method for the 2005 debentures. However, as our
    2009 debentures require settlement of the principal amount of
    the debt in cash upon conversion, with the conversion premium
    paid in cash or stock at our option, potentially dilutive common
    shares are determined by applying the treasury stock method. For
    further discussion on the specific conversion features of our
    2005 and 2009 debentures, see  Note 21: Borrowings. 

For 2010, we excluded 161 million outstanding weighted average
    stock options (486 million in 2009 and 484 million in 2008) from
    the calculation of diluted earnings per common share because the
    exercise prices of these stock options were greater than or
    equal to the average market value of the common shares. These
    options could be included in the calculation in the future if
    the average market value of the common shares increases and is
    greater than the exercise price of the options. We also excluded
    our 2009 debentures from the calculation of diluted earnings per
    common share because the conversion option of the debentures was
    anti-dilutive. In the future, we could have potentially dilutive
    shares if the average market price is above the conversion price.

93

Table of Contents   

INTEL
    CORPORATION 
    NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)  

Note 27:
    Comprehensive Income  

The components of total comprehensive income were as follows:

The components of other comprehensive income (loss) and related
    tax effects were as follows:

The change in deferred tax asset valuation allowance in the
    preceding table is related to the reversal of a portion of our
    deferred tax asset valuation allowance attributed to changes in
    unrealized holding gains on our
     available-for-sale 
    investments. The amount will be reduced as these investments are
    sold or mature.

The components of accumulated other comprehensive income (loss),
    net of tax, were as follows:

The estimated net prior service cost and actuarial loss for the
    defined benefit plan that will be amortized from accumulated
    other comprehensive income (loss) into net periodic benefit cost
    during 2011 are $6 million and $36 million, respectively.

94

Table of Contents   

INTEL
    CORPORATION 
    NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)  

Note 28:
    Taxes  

Income before taxes and the provision for taxes consisted of the
    following:

The difference between the tax provision at the statutory
    federal income tax rate and the tax provision as a percentage of
    income before income taxes (effective tax rate) was as follows:

Income in certain foreign countries is fully exempt from income
    taxes for a limited period of time due to eligible activities
    and certain capital investment actions. These full tax
    exemptions expire at various dates through 2020; however, the
    exemptions in certain countries are eligible for renewal. In
    2010, the tax benefit attributable to tax holidays was $256
    million with a $0.04 impact on diluted earnings per share. The
    tax holiday benefits for 2009 and 2008 were $115 million ($0.02
    per diluted share) and $67 million ($0.01 per diluted share),
    respectively.

During 2010, net income tax benefits attributable to
    equity-based compensation transactions that were allocated to
    stockholders  equity totaled $40 million (net deficiencies
    of $41 million in 2009 and net benefits of $8 million in 2008).

95

Table of Contents   

INTEL
    CORPORATION 
    NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)  

Deferred income taxes reflect the net tax effects of temporary
    differences between the carrying amounts of assets and
    liabilities for financial reporting purposes and the amounts for
    income tax purposes. Significant components of our deferred tax
    assets and liabilities at year-ends were as follows:

Non-current deferred tax assets are included within other
    long-term assets on the consolidated balance sheets.

The valuation allowance is based on our assessment that it is
    more likely than not that certain deferred tax assets will not
    be realized in the foreseeable future. The valuation allowance
    as of December 25, 2010 included allowances related to
    unrealized state credit carry forwards of $156 million and
    depreciation expense and other matters related to our
     non-U.S. 
    subsidiaries of $96 million.

As of December 25, 2010, we had not recognized U.S. deferred
    income taxes on a cumulative total of $11.8 billion of
    undistributed earnings for certain
     non-U.S. 
    subsidiaries. Determining the unrecognized deferred tax
    liability related to investments in these
     non-U.S. 
    subsidiaries that are indefinitely reinvested is not
    practicable. We currently intend to indefinitely reinvest those
    earnings in operations outside the U.S.

Long-term income taxes payable include uncertain tax positions,
    reduced by the associated federal deduction for state taxes and
     non-U.S.  tax
    credits, and may also include other long-term tax liabilities
    that are not uncertain but have not yet been paid.

96

Table of Contents   

INTEL
    CORPORATION 
    NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)  

The aggregate changes in the balance of gross unrecognized tax
    benefits were as follows:

(In Millions) 

December 29, 2007 

$ 

794 

Settlements and effective settlements with tax authorities and
    related remeasurements

(154

)

Increases in balances related to tax positions taken during
    prior periods

72

Decreases in balances related to tax positions taken during
    prior periods

(84

)

Increases in balances related to tax positions taken during
    current period

116

December 27, 2008 

$ 

744 

Settlements and effective settlements with tax authorities and
    related remeasurements

(526

)

Increases in balances related to tax positions taken during
    prior periods

28

Decreases in balances related to tax positions taken during
    prior periods

(58

)

Increases in balances related to tax positions taken during
    current period

32

December 26, 2009 

$ 

220 

Settlements and effective settlements with tax authorities and
    related remeasurements

(73

)

Increases in balances related to tax positions taken during
    prior periods

28

Decreases in balances related to tax positions taken during
    prior periods

(30

)

Increases in balances related to tax positions taken during
    current period

71

December 25, 2010 

$ 

216 

During 2010, we settled and effectively settled matters with the
    U.S. Internal Revenue Service and certain state tax authorities
    related to tax positions taken during prior periods. The result
    of the settlements, effective settlements, and resulting
    remeasurements was a reduction of $73 million in the balance of
    our gross unrecognized tax benefits ($526 million in 2009, $154
    million in 2008), $48 million of which resulted in a tax benefit
    for 2010 ($366 million for 2009, $103 million for 2008).

If the remaining balance of $216 million of unrecognized tax
    benefits as of December 25, 2010 ($220 million as of December
    26, 2009) were realized in a future period, it would result in a
    tax benefit of $124 million and a reduction of the effective tax
    rate ($101 million as of December 26, 2009).

During all years presented, we recognized interest and penalties
    related to unrecognized tax benefits within the provision for
    taxes on the consolidated statements of income. In 2009, we
    recognized a net benefit of $62 million, primarily due to the
    reversal of accrued interest and penalties related to settled
    and effectively settled matters described above (insignificant
    for 2010 and 2008). As of December 25, 2010, we had $49 million
    of accrued interest and penalties related to unrecognized tax
    benefits ($55 million as of December 26, 2009).

Although the timing of the resolution
     and/or 
    closure on audits is highly uncertain, it is reasonably possible
    that the balance of gross unrecognized tax benefits could
    significantly change in the next 12 months. However, given the
    number of years remaining subject to examination and the number
    of matters being examined, we are unable to estimate the full
    range of possible adjustments to the balance of gross
    unrecognized tax benefits.

We file U.S. federal, U.S. state, and
     non-U.S.  tax
    returns. For U.S. state and
     non-U.S.  tax
    returns, we are generally no longer subject to tax examinations
    for years prior to 1996. For U.S. federal tax returns, we are no
    longer subject to tax examination for years prior to 2006.

97

Table of Contents   

INTEL
    CORPORATION 
    NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)  

Note 29:
    Contingencies  

Legal
    Proceedings   

We are currently a party to various legal proceedings, including
    those noted in this section. While management presently believes
    that the ultimate outcome of these proceedings, individually and
    in the aggregate, will not materially harm the company s
    financial position, cash flows, or overall trends in results of
    operations, legal proceedings and related government
    investigations are subject to inherent uncertainties, and
    unfavorable rulings or other events could occur. Unfavorable
    rulings could include substantial monetary damages, and in
    matters for which injunctive relief or other conduct remedies
    are sought, an injunction or other order prohibiting us from
    selling one or more products at all or in particular ways,
    precluding particular business practices, or requiring other
    remedies such as compulsory licensing of intellectual property.
    Were unfavorable final outcomes to occur, there exists the
    possibility of a material adverse impact on our business,
    results of operations, financial position, and overall trends.
    It is also possible that we could conclude it is in the best
    interests of our stockholders, employees, and customers to
    settle one or more such matters, and any such settlement could
    include substantial payments; however, we have not reached this
    conclusion with respect to any particular matter at this time.
    Except as may be otherwise indicated, the outcomes in these
    matters are not reasonably estimable.

A number of proceedings generally have challenged and continue
    to challenge certain of our competitive practices. The
    allegations in these proceedings vary and are described in more
    detail in the following paragraphs, but in general contend that
    we improperly condition price rebates and other discounts on our
    microprocessors on exclusive or near-exclusive dealing by some
    of our customers; claim that our software compiler business
    unfairly prefers Intel microprocessors over competing
    microprocessors and that, through the use of our compiler and
    other means, we have caused inaccurate and misleading benchmark
    results concerning our microprocessors to be disseminated;
    allege that we unfairly controlled the content and timing of
    release of various standard computer interfaces developed by
    Intel in cooperation with other industry participants; and
    accuse us of engaging in various acts of improper competitive
    activity in competing against what is referred to as
    general-purpose graphics processing units (GPUs), including
    certain licensing practices and our actions in connection with
    developing and disclosing potentially competitive technology.

We believe that we compete lawfully and that our marketing,
    business, intellectual property, and other challenged practices
    benefit our customers and our stockholders, and we will continue
    to conduct a vigorous defense in these proceedings. While we
    have settled some of these matters, the distractions caused by
    challenges to these practices from the remaining matters are
    undesirable, and the legal and other costs associated with
    defending and resolving our position have been and continue to
    be significant. We assume that these challenges could continue
    for a number of years and may require the investment of
    substantial additional management time and substantial financial
    resources to explain and defend our position.

Government
    Competition Matters and Related Consumer Class Actions  

In 2001, the European Commission (EC) commenced an investigation
    regarding claims by Advanced Micro Devices, Inc. (AMD) that we
    used unfair business practices to persuade clients to buy our
    microprocessors. Since that time, we have received numerous
    requests for information and documents from the EC, and we have
    responded to each of those requests. The EC issued a Statement
    of Objections in July 2007 and held a hearing on that Statement
    in March 2008. The EC issued a Supplemental Statement of
    Objections in July 2008.

In May 2009, the EC issued a decision finding that we had
    violated Article 82 of the EC Treaty and Article 54 of the
    European Economic Area Agreement. In general, the EC found that
    we violated Article 82 (later renumbered as Article 102 by a new
    treaty) by offering alleged  conditional rebates and
    payments  that required our customers to purchase all or
    most of their x86 microprocessors from us. The EC also found
    that we violated Article 82 by making alleged  payments to
    prevent sales of specific rival products.  The EC imposed a
    fine in the amount of  1.06 billion ($1.447 billion as of
    May 2009), which we subsequently paid during the third quarter
    of 2009, and also ordered us to  immediately bring to an
    end the infringement referred to in  the EC decision. In
    the second quarter of 2009, we recorded the related charge
    within marketing, general and administrative on the consolidated
    statements of income. We strongly disagree with the EC s
    decision, and we appealed the decision to the Court of First
    Instance (which has been renamed the General Court) in July
    2009. The EC filed an answer to our reply brief in November
    2010. The court s decision, after additional briefing and
    oral argument, is expected in 2012.

The EC decision exceeds 500 pages and does not contain specific
    direction on whether or how we should modify our business
    practices. Instead, the decision states that we should
     cease and desist  from further conduct that, in the
    EC s opinion, would violate applicable law. We have taken
    steps, which are subject to the EC s ongoing review, to
    comply with that decision pending appeal. We opened discussions
    with the EC to better understand the decision and to explain
    changes to our business practices. Based on our current
    understanding and expectations, we do not believe that any such
    changes will be material to our financial position, results, or
    cash flows.

98

Table of Contents   

INTEL
    CORPORATION 
    NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)  

In June 2005, we received an inquiry from the Korea Fair Trade
    Commission (KFTC) requesting documents from our Korean
    subsidiary related to marketing and rebate programs that we
    entered into with Korean PC manufacturers. In February 2006, the
    KFTC initiated an inspection of documents at our offices in
    Korea. In September 2007, the KFTC served on us an Examination
    Report alleging that sales to two customers during parts of
    2002 2005 violated Korea s Monopoly Regulation and
    Fair Trade Act. In December 2007, we submitted our written
    response to the KFTC. In February 2008, the KFTC s examiner
    submitted a written reply to our response. In March 2008, we
    submitted a further response. In April 2008, we participated in
    a pre-hearing conference before the KFTC, and we participated in
    formal hearings in May and June 2008. In June 2008, the KFTC
    announced its intent to fine us approximately $25 million for
    providing discounts to Samsung Electronics Co., Ltd. and TriGem
    Computer Inc. In November 2008, the KFTC issued a final written
    decision concluding that our discounts had violated Korean
    antitrust law and imposing a fine on us of approximately $20
    million, which we paid in January 2009. In December 2008, we
    appealed this decision by filing a lawsuit in the Seoul High
    Court seeking to overturn the KFTC s decision. We expect a
    decision from the court in 2011.

In November 2009, the State of New York filed a lawsuit against
    us in the U.S. District Court for the District of Delaware. The
    lawsuit alleges that we violated federal antitrust laws; the New
    York Donnelly Act, which prohibits contracts or agreements to
    monopolize; and the New York Executive Law, which proscribes
    underlying violations of federal and state antitrust laws. The
    lawsuit alleges that we engaged in a systematic worldwide
    campaign of illegal, exclusionary conduct to maintain monopoly
    power and prices in the market for x86 microprocessors through
    the use of various alleged actions, including exclusive or
    near-exclusive agreements from large computer makers in exchange
    for  loyalty payments  and  bribes,  and
    other alleged threats and retaliation. The plaintiff claims that
    our alleged actions harmed consumers, competition, and
    innovation. The lawsuit seeks a declaration that our alleged
    actions have violated the federal and New York antitrust laws
    and the New York Executive Law; an injunction to prevent further
    alleged unlawful acts; unspecified damages in an amount to be
    proven at trial, trebled as provided for by law, restitution,
    and disgorgement; $1 million for each violation of the Donnelly
    Act proven by the plaintiff, and attorneys  fees and costs.
    In January 2010, we filed our answer.

In December 2010, the N.Y. Attorney General s staff
    requested the court s permission to amend its complaint to
    expand the scope of parties covered by its Donnelly Act and
    Executive Law claims. Intel filed an opposition to the motion,
    and a hearing is scheduled for May 2011. We disagree with the
    plaintiffs  allegations and claims in both the original
    complaint and the proposed amended complaint, and intend to
    conduct a vigorous defense of the lawsuit. The court has set a
    trial to begin on this matter in February 2012.

In June 2008, the U.S. Federal Trade Commission (FTC) announced
    a formal investigation into our sales practices. In December
    2009, three FTC Commissioners voted to issue an administrative
    complaint alleging that we had violated Section 5 of the FTC Act
    by engaging in unfair methods of competition and unfair acts or
    practices in markets for CPUs and GPUs. In November 2010, the
    FTC publicly announced the final approval to a settlement
    between Intel and the FTC that fully resolves the FTC s
    2009 lawsuit against Intel. Among other provisions, the
    agreement includes: a statement that the agreement does not
    constitute an admission that Intel has violated the law or that
    the facts alleged in the complaint are true; provisions with
    respect to the treatment and extension of certain intellectual
    property agreements between Intel and AMD, Intel and NVIDIA
    Corporation, and Intel and VIA Technologies, Inc.; provisions
    with respect to Intel s sales, marketing, pricing, and
    promotional activities for certain Intel microprocessors and
    chipsets; provisions concerning engineering and design changes
    to certain Intel products; provisions concerning Intel s
    actions with respect to product roadmaps; disclosure and other
    terms with respect to Intel s compilers and related
    products; and provisions related to compliance with the
    agreement. Intel continues to disagree with the FTC s
    allegations that Intel has violated any law. Nevertheless, Intel
    believes that the settlement is appropriate and in the best
    interests of its stockholders, employees, and customers. Based
    on our current understanding and expectations, we do not believe
    that any changes in our business practices to comply with the
    agreement will be material to our financial position, results,
    or cash flows.

99

Table of Contents   

INTEL
    CORPORATION 
    NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)  

At least 82 separate class actions have been filed in the U.S.
    District Courts for the Northern District of California,
    Southern District of California, District of Idaho, District of
    Nebraska, District of New Mexico, District of Maine, and
    District of Delaware, as well as in various California, Kansas,
    and Tennessee state courts. These actions generally repeat the
    allegations made in a now-settled lawsuit filed against Intel by
    AMD in June 2005 in the U.S. District Court for the District of
    Delaware (AMD litigation). Like the AMD lawsuit, these
     class-action 
    suits allege that Intel engaged in various actions in violation
    of the Sherman Act and other laws by, among other things,
    providing discounts and rebates to our manufacturer and
    distributor customers conditioned on exclusive or near exclusive
    dealings that allegedly unfairly interfered with AMD s
    ability to sell its microprocessors, interfering with certain
    AMD product launches, and interfering with AMD s
    participation in certain industry standards-setting groups. The
    class actions allege various consumer injuries, including that
    consumers in various states have been injured by paying higher
    prices for computers containing our microprocessors. All of the
    federal class actions and the Kansas and Tennessee state court
    class actions have been consolidated by the Multidistrict
    Litigation Panel to the District of Delaware, and the court has
    appointed a Special Master to address issues in the litigation
    as assigned by the court. In January 2010, the plaintiffs in the
    Delaware action filed a motion for sanctions for our failure to
    preserve evidence. This motion largely copies a motion
    previously filed by AMD in the AMD litigation, which has
    settled. The plaintiffs in the coordinated actions also moved
    for certification of a class of members who purchased certain
    personal computers containing products sold by Intel. In July
    2010, the Special Master issued a Report and Recommendation
    (Class Report) denying the motion to certify a class. The
    plaintiffs filed objections to the Special Master s Class
    Report, and a hearing on these objections is scheduled for March
    2011. All California class actions have been consolidated to the
    Superior Court of California in Santa Clara County. The
    plaintiffs in the California actions have moved for class
    certification, which we are in the process of opposing. At our
    request, the court in the California actions has agreed to delay
    ruling on this motion until after the Delaware District Court
    rules on the similar motion in the coordinated actions. We
    dispute the
     class-action 
    claims and intend to defend the lawsuits vigorously.

Antitrust
    Derivative Litigation and Related Matters  

In February 2008, Martin Smilow filed a putative stockholder
    derivative action in the U.S. District Court for the District of
    Delaware against members of our Board of Directors. The
    complaint alleged generally that the Board allowed the company
    to violate antitrust and other laws, as alleged in the AMD
    litigation, and that those alleged Board-sanctioned activities
    harmed the company. The complaint repeated many of the
    allegations made in the AMD litigation and referenced various
    investigations by the EC, KFTC, and others. In February 2008,
    Evan Tobias filed a putative stockholder derivative suit in the
    same court against the Board containing many of the same
    allegations as the Smilow suit. In July 2008, the District Court
    ordered Smilow and Tobias to file a single, consolidated
    complaint. An amended consolidated complaint was filed in August
    2008. In June 2009, the court granted the defendants 
    motion to dismiss the plaintiffs  consolidated complaint
    with prejudice. In July 2009, Smilow and the Rosenfeld Family
    Foundation made a demand to inspect certain of our books and
    records pursuant to Section 220 of the Delaware General
    Corporation Law, and in November 2009, Smilow and the Rosenfeld
    Family Foundation filed an action in Delaware Chancery Court to
    enforce that demand.

In June 2008, Christine Del Gaizo filed a putative stockholder
    derivative suit in the Santa Clara County Superior Court against
    the Board, a former director of the Board, and six of our
    officers, containing many of the same allegations as the
     Smilow/Tobias  stockholder derivative suit. In August
    2008, the Santa Clara County Superior Court entered a stipulated
    order staying the  Del Gaizo  action pending further order
    of the court.

In November 2009, Charles Gilman filed a putative stockholder
    derivative suit in the U.S. District Court for the District of
    Delaware against certain Intel Board members as well as three
    former Board members. In December 2009, the Louisiana Municipal
    Police Employee Retirement System (LMPERS) filed a putative
    stockholder derivative suit in the same court against the same
    defendants. In January 2010, the District Court ordered Gilman
    and LMPERS to file a single, consolidated complaint under the
    name  In re Intel Corp. Derivative Litigation . An amended
    consolidated complaint was filed in February 2010, which makes
    many of the same allegations raised in the  Smilow/Tobias
     and  Del Gaizo  suits, and additionally cites a number
    of excerpts from the EC s decision, points to the
    settlement of the AMD litigation as supposed evidence of damage
    to Intel, and incorporates by reference all of the allegations
    made in the lawsuit filed against us by the State of New York
    and all of the allegations made in the administrative complaint
    filed against us by the FTC.

In March 2010, Alan Paris filed a putative stockholder
    derivative suit in Santa Clara County Superior Court against
    certain current Intel Board members as well as three former
    Board members. Paris s complaint makes many of the same
    allegations raised in  In re Intel Corp. Derivative
    Litigation .

100

Table of Contents   

INTEL
    CORPORATION 
    NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)  

In May 2010, we entered into a stipulation of settlement to
    resolve all of the foregoing stockholder derivative litigation
    and related matters, except for the  Del Gaizo  lawsuit.
    The settlement was approved by the Delaware District Court in
    July 2010. Pursuant to the Delaware District Court s
    scheduling order, we provided notice of the settlement to Intel
    stockholders in June 2010. In August 2010, Intel stockholder
    Christine Del Gaizo appealed the District Court s final
    judgment approving the settlement of these derivative actions,
    but we subsequently entered into a settlement agreement with Del
    Gaizo pursuant to which the appeal was dismissed in December
    2010. The settlement agreements did not significantly impact our
    results of operations or cash flows.

In January 2011, the Santa Clara County Superior Court entered
    judgment dismissing the Del Gaizo lawsuit with prejudice on the
    ground that it was barred as a result of the settlement approved
    by the Delaware District Court in July 2010. That judgment and
    the two settlements bring all pending derivative litigation to a
    close.

Intel
    Corporation v. NVIDIA Corporation  

In February 2009, Intel filed a declaratory judgment lawsuit
    against NVIDIA in the Delaware Court of Chancery concerning a
    chipset patent license agreement signed by Intel and NVIDIA in
    2004. The lawsuit sought a declaratory judgment that chipsets
    for Intel microprocessors with integrated memory controllers are
    not licensed products under the chipset agreement. NVIDIA denied
    Intel s claims and in March 2009 filed counterclaims
    against Intel seeking a declaration that NVIDIA is licensed,
    alleging that Intel breached the chipset agreement by making
    false and misleading statements about NVIDIA s rights, and
    alleging that Intel breached the implied covenant of good faith
    and fair dealing by taking actions to deprive and hinder
    NVIDIA s sales of chipsets. NVIDIA sought substantial
    monetary damages and an order terminating Intel s rights
    under a separate patent cross-license agreement signed by Intel
    and NVIDIA in 2004. In January 2011, we entered into an
    agreement with NVIDIA to cross-license certain patents and
    settle the existing litigation between the companies. Under the
    agreement, we received a license to all of NVIDIA s patents
    with a capture period that runs through March 2017. In exchange,
    we agreed to make payments totaling $1.5 billion to NVIDIA over
    six years ($300 million annually from 2011 through 2013, and
    $200 million annually from 2014 through 2016), which will be
    recognized as a liability totaling approximately $1.4 billion,
    on a discounted basis. In the fourth quarter of 2010, we
    recognized an expense of $100 million within marketing, general
    and administrative on the consolidated statements of income. The
    remaining amount, approximately $1.3 billion, will be recognized
    as an intangible asset in the first quarter of 2011 and will be
    amortized into cost of sales over future periods. Additionally,
    we granted NVIDIA a license to Intel s patents subject to
    certain exclusions, including x86 products, certain chipsets,
    and certain flash memory technology products.

Lehman
    Matter  

In November 2009, representatives of Lehman Brothers Holdings
    Inc. (Lehman) advised us informally that the Lehman bankruptcy
    estate was considering a claim against us arising from a 2008
    contract between Intel and Lehman Brothers OTC Derivatives Inc.
    (Lehman OTC). Under the terms of the 2008 contract, Intel
    prepaid $1.0 billion to Lehman OTC, in exchange for which Lehman
    OTC was required to purchase and deliver to Intel the number of
    shares of Intel common stock that could be purchased for $1.0
    billion at the volume-weighted average price for the period
    August 26, 2008 to September 26, 2008. Lehman OTC s
    performance under the contract was secured by $1.0 billion of
    cash collateral. Under the terms of the contract, Lehman OTC was
    obligated to deliver approximately 50 million shares of our
    common stock to us on September 29, 2008. Lehman failed to
    deliver any shares of our common stock, and we exercised our
    right to setoff against the $1.0 billion collateral. Lehman OTC
    has not initiated any action against us to date, but in February
    2010, Lehman served a subpoena on us in connection with this
    transaction. In September 2010, we entered into an agreement
    with Lehman that tolls any applicable statutes of limitations
    for 90 days and precludes the parties from commencing any formal
    proceedings to prosecute any claims against each other in any
    forum during that period. In October 2010, Lehman demanded that
    Intel pay it at least $417 million. We continue to believe that
    we acted appropriately under our agreement with Lehman OTC, and
    we intend to defend any claim to the contrary. We have agreed to
    extend the tolling agreement twice, and it is now in effect
    through May 2011.

101

Table of Contents   

INTEL
    CORPORATION 
    NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)  

Frank T.
    Shum v. Intel Corporation, Jean-Marc Verdiell, and LightLogic,
    Inc.  

We acquired LightLogic, Inc. in May 2001. Frank Shum
    subsequently sued us, LightLogic, and LightLogic s founder,
    Jean-Marc Verdiell, claiming that much of LightLogic s
    intellectual property is based on alleged inventions that Shum
    conceived while he and Verdiell were partners at Radiance
    Design, Inc. Shum has alleged claims for fraud, breach of
    fiduciary duty, fraudulent concealment, and breach of contract.
    Shum also seeks alleged correction of inventorship of seven
    patents acquired by us as part of the LightLogic acquisition. In
    January 2005, the U.S. District Court for the Northern District
    of California denied Shum s inventorship claim, and
    thereafter granted our motion for summary judgment on
    Shum s remaining claims. In August 2007, the U.S. Court of
    Appeals for the Federal Circuit vacated the District
    Court s rulings and remanded the case for further
    proceedings. In October 2008, the District Court granted our
    motion for summary judgment on Shum s claims for breach of
    fiduciary duty and fraudulent concealment, but denied our motion
    on Shum s remaining claims. A jury trial on Shum s
    remaining claims took place in November and December 2008. In
    pre-trial proceedings and at trial, Shum requested monetary
    damages against the defendants in amounts ranging from $31
    million to $931 million, and his final request to the jury was
    for as much as $175 million. Following deliberations, the jury
    was unable to reach a verdict on most of the claims. With
    respect to Shum s claim that he is the proper inventor on
    certain LightLogic patents now assigned to us, the jury agreed
    with Shum on some of those claims and was unable to reach a
    verdict regarding the remaining claims. In April 2009, the court
    granted defendants  motions for judgment as a matter of
    law. Shum appealed that ruling to the U.S. Court of Appeals for
    the Federal Circuit, which heard oral arguments in August 2010
    and affirmed the trial court s orders in favor of Intel in
    December 2010. In January 2011, Shum petitioned the Federal
    Circuit for a re-hearing
     and/or 
    re-hearing en banc. We will file a response upon request by the
    Federal Circuit. We will continue to defend the lawsuit
    vigorously.

Note 30:
    Operating Segment and Geographic Information  

As of December 25, 2010, our operating segments included: PC
    Client Group, Data Center Group, Embedded and Communications
    Group, Digital Home Group, Ultra-Mobility Group, NAND Solutions
    Group, Wind River Software Group, Software and Services Group,
    and Digital Health Group. Subsequent to year-end, we divested of
    the Digital Health Group. For further information, see
     Note 11: Equity Method and Cost Method Investments. 

The Chief Operating Decision Maker (CODM) is our President and
    Chief Executive Officer. The CODM allocates resources to and
    assesses the performance of each operating segment using
    information about its revenue and operating income (loss).

Our PC Client Group and our Data Center Group are reportable
    operating segments. We also aggregate and disclose the financial
    results of the following non-reportable operating segments,
    whose product lines are based on
    Intel   

    architecture: Embedded and Communications Group, Digital Home
    Group, and Ultra-Mobility Group. These aggregated operating
    segments do not meet the quantitative thresholds to qualify as
    reportable operating segments; however, we have chosen to
    disclose the aggregation of these non-reportable operating
    segments in the  other Intel architecture operating
    segments  category. Revenue for our reportable and
    aggregated non-reportable operating segments is primarily
    related to the following product lines:

PC Client Group.  Includes microprocessors and
    related chipsets and motherboards designed for the desktop
    (including high-end enthusiast PCs), notebook, and netbook
    market segments; and wireless connectivity products.

Data Center Group.  Includes microprocessors and
    related chipsets and motherboards designed for the server,
    workstation, and storage computing market segments; and wired
    network connectivity products.

Other Intel architecture operating
    segments.  Includes microprocessors and related chipsets
    for embedded applications and products designed for the
    ultra-mobile market segment, which includes various handheld
    devices; and products for the consumer electronics market
    segments.

Our NAND Solutions Group, Wind River Software Group, Software
    and Services Group, and Digital Health Group operating segments
    do not meet the quantitative thresholds to qualify as reportable
    segments and are included within the  other operating
    segments  category.

Revenue within the  corporate  category is primarily
    related to divested businesses for which discrete operating
    results are not reviewed by our CODM. This includes revenue
    related to our NOR flash memory, as well as revenue and expenses
    related to supply and service agreements that were entered into
    as part of the divestiture (see  Note 16:
    Divestitures ).

We have sales and marketing, manufacturing, finance, and
    administration groups. Expenses for these groups are generally
    allocated to the operating segments, and the expenses are
    included in the operating results reported below.

102

Table of Contents   

INTEL
    CORPORATION 
    NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)  

During 2009, we incurred charges of $1.447 billion as a result
    of the fine from the EC and $1.25 billion as a result of our
    legal settlement with AMD. These charges were included in the
     corporate  category. Additionally, the corporate
    category includes expenses and charges such as:

amounts included within restructuring and asset impairment
    charges;

a portion of profit-dependent compensation and other expenses
    not allocated to the operating segments;

results of operations of seed businesses that support our
    initiatives; and

acquisition-related costs, including amortization and any
    impairment of acquisition-related intangibles and goodwill.

The CODM does not evaluate operating segments using discrete
    asset information. Operating segments do not record
    inter-segment revenue, and, accordingly, there is none to be
    reported. We do not allocate gains and losses from equity
    investments, interest and other income, or taxes to operating
    segments. Although the CODM uses operating income to evaluate
    the segments, operating costs included in one segment may
    benefit other segments. Except as discussed above, the
    accounting policies for segment reporting are the same as for
    Intel as a whole.

Net revenue and operating income (loss) for the three years
    ended December 25, 2010 were as follows:

In 2010, one customer accounted for 21% of our net revenue (21%
    in 2009 and 20% in 2008), while another customer accounted for
    17% of our net revenue (17% in 2009 and 18% in 2008). The
    majority of the revenue from these customers was from the sale
    of microprocessors, chipsets, and other components by the PC
    Client Group and the Data Center Group operating segments.

103

Table of Contents   

INTEL
    CORPORATION 
    NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)  

Geographic revenue information for the three years ended
    December 25, 2010 is based on the location of the customer.
    Revenue from unaffiliated customers was as follows:

Revenue from unaffiliated customers outside the U.S. totaled
    $37,074 million in 2010 ($29,847 million in 2009 and $32,124
    million in 2008).

Net property, plant and equipment by country was as follows:

Net property, plant and equipment outside the U.S. totaled
    $5,247 million in 2010 ($5,581 million in 2009 and $6,320
    million in 2008).

104

Table of Contents   

REPORT OF
    ERNST   YOUNG LLP, INDEPENDENT REGISTERED PUBLIC ACCOUNTING
    FIRM  

The
    Board of Directors and Stockholders of Intel
    Corporation   

We have audited the accompanying consolidated balance sheets of
    Intel Corporation as of December 25, 2010 and December 26, 2009,
    and the related consolidated statements of income,
    stockholders  equity, and cash flows for each of the three
    years in the period ended December 25, 2010. Our audits also
    included the financial statement schedule listed in the Index at
    Part IV, Item 15. These financial statements and schedule are
    the responsibility of the company s management. Our
    responsibility is to express an opinion on these financial
    statements and schedule based on our audits.

We conducted our audits in accordance with the standards of the
    Public Company Accounting Oversight Board (United States). Those
    standards require that we plan and perform the audit to obtain
    reasonable assurance about whether the financial statements are
    free of material misstatement. An audit includes examining, on a
    test basis, evidence supporting the amounts and disclosures in
    the financial statements. An audit also includes assessing the
    accounting principles used and significant estimates made by
    management, as well as evaluating the overall financial
    statement presentation. We believe that our audits provide a
    reasonable basis for our opinion.

In our opinion, the financial statements referred to above
    present fairly, in all material respects, the consolidated
    financial position of Intel Corporation at December 25, 2010 and
    December 26, 2009, and the consolidated results of its
    operations and its cash flows for each of the three years in the
    period ended December 25, 2010, in conformity with U.S.
    generally accepted accounting principles. Also, in our opinion,
    the related financial statement schedule referred to above, when
    considered in relation to the basic financial statements taken
    as a whole, presents fairly in all material respects the
    information set forth therein.

We also have audited, in accordance with the standards of the
    Public Company Accounting Oversight Board (United States), Intel
    Corporation s internal control over financial reporting as
    of December 25, 2010, based on criteria established in Internal
    Control Integrated Framework issued by the Committee of
    Sponsoring Organizations of the Treadway Commission and our
    report dated February 18, 2011 expressed an unqualified opinion
    thereon.

/s/ Ernst   Young LLP

San Jose, California

February 18, 2011

105

Table of Contents   

REPORT OF
    ERNST   YOUNG LLP, INDEPENDENT REGISTERED PUBLIC ACCOUNTING
    FIRM  

The
    Board of Directors and Stockholders of Intel
    Corporation   

We have audited Intel Corporation s internal control over
    financial reporting as of December 25, 2010, based on criteria
    established in Internal Control Integrated Framework issued
    by the Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of the Treadway
    Commission (the COSO criteria). Intel Corporation s
    management is responsible for maintaining effective internal
    control over financial reporting, and for its assessment of the
    effectiveness of internal control over financial reporting
    included in the accompanying Management Report on Internal
    Control Over Financial Reporting. Our responsibility is to
    express an opinion on the company s internal control over
    financial reporting based on our audit.

We conducted our audit in accordance with the standards of the
    Public Company Accounting Oversight Board (United States). Those
    standards require that we plan and perform the audit to obtain
    reasonable assurance about whether effective internal control
    over financial reporting was maintained in all material
    respects. Our audit included obtaining an understanding of
    internal control over financial reporting, assessing the risk
    that a material weakness exists, testing and evaluating the
    design and operating effectiveness of internal control based on
    the assessed risk, and performing such other procedures as we
    considered necessary in the circumstances. We believe that our
    audit provides a reasonable basis for our opinion.

A company s internal control over financial reporting is a
    process designed to provide reasonable assurance regarding the
    reliability of financial reporting and the preparation of
    financial statements for external purposes in accordance with
    generally accepted accounting principles. A company s
    internal control over financial reporting includes those
    policies and procedures that (1) pertain to the maintenance of
    records that, in reasonable detail, accurately and fairly
    reflect the transactions and dispositions of the assets of the
    company; (2) provide reasonable assurance that transactions are
    recorded as necessary to permit preparation of financial
    statements in accordance with generally accepted accounting
    principles, and that receipts and expenditures of the company
    are being made only in accordance with authorizations of
    management and directors of the company; and (3) provide
    reasonable assurance regarding prevention or timely detection of
    unauthorized acquisition, use, or disposition of the
    company s assets that could have a material effect on the
    financial statements.

Because of its inherent limitations, internal control over
    financial reporting may not prevent or detect misstatements.
    Also, projections of any evaluation of effectiveness to future
    periods are subject to the risk that controls may become
    inadequate because of changes in conditions, or that the degree
    of compliance with the policies or procedures may deteriorate.

In our opinion, Intel Corporation maintained, in all material
    respects, effective internal control over financial reporting as
    of December 25, 2010, based on the COSO criteria.

We also have audited, in accordance with the standards of the
    Public Company Accounting Oversight Board (United States), the
    2010 consolidated financial statements of Intel Corporation and
    our report dated February 18, 2011 expressed an unqualified
    opinion thereon.

/s/ Ernst   Young LLP

San Jose, California

February 18, 2011

106

Table of Contents   

INTEL
    CORPORATION 
    FINANCIAL INFORMATION BY QUARTER (UNAUDITED)  

1   

Intel s common stock (symbol INTC) trades on The NASDAQ
    Global Select Market. All stock prices are closing prices per
    The NASDAQ Global Select Market.  

2   

During the fourth quarter of 2009, we recorded a charge of
    $1.25 billion as a result of a settlement agreement with AMD.  

3   

During the second quarter of 2009, we recorded a charge of
    $1.447 billion ( 1.06 billion) as a result of the fine
    imposed by the EC. For further information, see  Note 29:
    Contingencies  in the Notes to Consolidated Financial
    Statements of this Form
     10-K.   

107

Table of Contents   

ITEM
    9.        

CHANGES
    IN AND DISAGREEMENTS WITH ACCOUNTANTS ON ACCOUNTING AND
    FINANCIAL DISCLOSURE  

Not applicable.

ITEM
    9A.        

CONTROLS
    AND PROCEDURES  

Evaluation
    of Disclosure Controls and Procedures  

Based on management s evaluation (with the participation of
    our CEO and Chief Financial Officer (CFO)), as of the end of the
    period covered by this report, our CEO and CFO have concluded
    that our disclosure controls and procedures (as defined in Rules
     13a-15(e) 
    and
     15d-15(e) 
    under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (the
    Exchange Act)), are effective to provide reasonable assurance
    that information required to be disclosed by us in reports that
    we file or submit under the Exchange Act is recorded, processed,
    summarized, and reported within the time periods specified in
    SEC rules and forms, and is accumulated and communicated to
    management, including our principal executive officer and
    principal financial officer, as appropriate, to allow timely
    decisions regarding required disclosure.

Changes
    in Internal Control Over Financial Reporting  

There were no changes to our internal control over financial
    reporting (as defined in Rules
     13a-15(f) 
    and
     15d-15(f) 
    under the Exchange Act) that occurred during the period covered
    by this report that have materially affected, or are reasonably
    likely to materially affect, our internal control over financial
    reporting.

Management
    Report on Internal Control Over Financial Reporting  

Our management is responsible for establishing and maintaining
    adequate internal control over financial reporting (as defined
    in Rules
     13a-15(f) 
    and
     15d-15(f) 
    under the Exchange Act) to provide reasonable assurance
    regarding the reliability of our financial reporting and the
    preparation of consolidated financial statements for external
    purposes in accordance with U.S. generally accepted accounting
    principles.

Management assessed our internal control over financial
    reporting as of December 25, 2010, the end of our fiscal year.
    Management based its assessment on criteria established in
    Internal Control Integrated Framework issued by the
    Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of the Treadway
    Commission. Management s assessment included evaluation of
    elements such as the design and operating effectiveness of key
    financial reporting controls, process documentation, accounting
    policies, and our overall control environment.

Based on our assessment, management has concluded that our
    internal control over financial reporting was effective as of
    the end of the fiscal year to provide reasonable assurance
    regarding the reliability of financial reporting and the
    preparation of consolidated financial statements for external
    reporting purposes in accordance with U.S. generally accepted
    accounting principles. We reviewed the results of
    management s assessment with the Audit Committee of our
    Board of Directors.

Our independent registered public accounting firm, Ernst  
    Young LLP, independently assessed the effectiveness of the
    company s internal control over financial reporting, as
    stated in their attestation report, which is included at the end
    of Part II, Item 8 of this Form
     10-K. 

Inherent
    Limitations on Effectiveness of Controls  

Our management, including the CEO and CFO, does not expect that
    our disclosure controls or our internal control over financial
    reporting will prevent or detect all error and all fraud. A
    control system, no matter how well designed and operated, can
    provide only reasonable, not absolute, assurance that the
    control system s objectives will be met. The design of a
    control system must reflect the fact that there are resource
    constraints, and the benefits of controls must be considered
    relative to their costs. Further, because of the inherent
    limitations in all control systems, no evaluation of controls
    can provide absolute assurance that misstatements due to error
    or fraud will not occur or that all control issues and instances
    of fraud, if any, have been detected. The design of any system
    of controls is based in part on certain assumptions about the
    likelihood of future events, and there can be no assurance that
    any design will succeed in achieving its stated goals under all
    potential future conditions. Projections of any evaluation of
    the effectiveness of controls to future periods are subject to
    risks. Over time, controls may become inadequate because of
    changes in conditions or deterioration in the degree of
    compliance with policies or procedures.

ITEM
    9B.        

OTHER
    INFORMATION  

None.

108

Table of Contents   

PART
    III  

ITEM
    10.        

DIRECTORS,
    EXECUTIVE OFFICERS AND CORPORATE GOVERNANCE  

The information in our 2011 Proxy Statement regarding directors
    and executive officers appearing under the headings
     Proposal 1: Election of Directors  and  Other
    Matters Section 16(a) Beneficial Ownership Reporting
    Compliance  is incorporated by reference in this section.
    The information under the heading  Executive Officers of
    the Registrant  in Part I, Item 1 of this Form
     10-K  is also
    incorporated by reference in this section. In addition, the
    information under the heading  Corporate Governance 
    in our 2011 Proxy Statement is incorporated by reference in this
    section.

The Intel Code of Conduct (the Code) is our code of ethics
    document applicable to all employees, including all officers,
    and including our independent directors, who are not employees
    of the company, with regard to their Intel-related activities.
    The Code incorporates our guidelines designed to deter
    wrongdoing and to promote honest and ethical conduct and
    compliance with applicable laws and regulations. The Code also
    incorporates our expectations of our employees that enable us to
    provide accurate and timely disclosure in our filings with the
    SEC and other public communications. In addition, the Code
    incorporates guidelines pertaining to topics such as complying
    with applicable laws, rules, and regulations; reporting Code
    violations; and maintaining accountability for adherence to the
    Code.

The full text of our Code is published on our Investor Relations
    web site at  www.intc.com . We intend to disclose future
    amendments to certain provisions of our Code, or waivers of such
    provisions granted to executive officers and directors, on the
    web site within four business days following the date of such
    amendment or waiver.

ITEM
    11.        

EXECUTIVE
    COMPENSATION  

The information appearing in our 2011 Proxy Statement under the
    headings  Director Compensation,   Compensation
    Discussion and Analysis,   Report of the Compensation
    Committee,  and  Executive Compensation  is
    incorporated by reference in this section.

ITEM
    12.        

SECURITY
    OWNERSHIP OF CERTAIN BENEFICIAL OWNERS AND MANAGEMENT AND
    RELATED STOCKHOLDER MATTERS  

The information appearing in our 2011 Proxy Statement under the
    heading  Security Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owners
    and Management  is incorporated by reference in this
    section.

Information regarding shares authorized for issuance under
    equity compensation plans approved and not approved by
    stockholders in our 2011 Proxy Statement under the heading
     Proposal 3: Approval of Amendment and Extension of the
    2006 Equity Incentive Plan  is incorporated by reference in
    this section.

ITEM
    13.        

CERTAIN
    RELATIONSHIPS AND RELATED TRANSACTIONS, AND DIRECTOR
    INDEPENDENCE  

The information appearing in our 2011 Proxy Statement under the
    headings  Corporate Governance  and  Certain
    Relationships and Related Transactions  is incorporated by
    reference in this section.

ITEM
    14.        

PRINCIPAL
    ACCOUNTING FEES AND SERVICES  

The information appearing in our 2011 Proxy Statement under the
    headings  Report of the Audit Committee  and
     Proposal 2: Ratification of Selection of Independent
    Registered Public Accounting Firm  is incorporated by
    reference in this section.

109

Table of Contents   

PART
    IV  

ITEM
    15.        

EXHIBITS,
    FINANCIAL STATEMENT SCHEDULES  

1. Financial Statements: See  Index to Consolidated
    Financial Statements  in Part II, Item 8 of this Form
     10-K. 

2. Financial Statement Schedule: See  Schedule
    II Valuation and Qualifying Accounts  in this section
    of this Form
     10-K. 

3. Exhibits: The exhibits listed in the accompanying index
    to exhibits are filed or incorporated by reference as part of
    this Form
     10-K. 

Certain of the agreements filed as exhibits to this Form
     10-K  contain
    representations and warranties by the parties to the agreements
    that have been made solely for the benefit of the parties to the
    agreement. These representations and warranties:

may have been qualified by disclosures that were made to the
    other parties in connection with the negotiation of the
    agreements, which disclosures are not necessarily reflected in
    the agreements;

may apply standards of materiality that differ from those of a
    reasonable investor; and

were made only as of specified dates contained in the agreements
    and are subject to subsequent developments and changed
    circumstances.

Accordingly, these representations and warranties may not
    describe the actual state of affairs as of the date that these
    representations and warranties were made or at any other time.
    Investors should not rely on them as statements of fact.

Intel, Intel logo, Intel Inside, Intel Atom, Celeron, Intel
    Centrino, Intel Core, Intel vPro, Intel Xeon, Itanium, and
    Pentium are trademarks of Intel Corporation in the U.S. and/or
    other countries. 

*   

Other names and brands may be claimed as the property of
    others.  

110

Table of Contents   

Schedule

INTEL
    CORPORATION 
    SCHEDULE II   VALUATION AND QUALIFYING
    ACCOUNTS 
      
    December 25, 2010, December 26, 2009, and December 27, 2008 
    (In Millions)  

Deductions in allowance for doubtful receivables represent
    uncollectible accounts written off, net of recoveries.

111

Table of Contents   

INDEX TO
    EXHIBITS  

112

Table of Contents   

113

Table of Contents   

114

Table of Contents   

**   

Management contracts or compensation plans or arrangements in
    which directors or executive officers are eligible to
    participate.  

115

Table of Contents   

SIGNATURES  

Pursuant to the requirements of Section 13 or 15(d) of the
    Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused
    this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned,
    thereunto duly authorized.

INTEL CORPORATION

Registrant

By: 

/s/   Stacy
    J. Smith 

Stacy J. Smith

Senior Vice President, Chief Financial Officer, and

Principal Accounting Officer

February 18, 2011

Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of
    1934, this report has been signed below by the following persons
    on behalf of the Registrant and in the capacities and on the
    dates indicated.

/s/   Charlene
    Barshefsky 

Charlene
    Barshefsky 
    Director 
    February 18, 2011

/s/   David
    S. Pottruck 

David
    S. Pottruck 
    Director 
    February 18, 2011

/s/   Susan
    L. Decker 

Susan
    L. Decker 
    Director 
    February 18, 2011

/s/   Jane
    E. Shaw 

Jane
    E. Shaw 
    Chairman of the Board and Director 
    February 18, 2011

/s/   John
    J. Donahoe 

John
    J. Donahoe 
    Director 
    February 18, 2011

/s/   Stacy
    J. Smith 

Stacy
    J. Smith 
    Senior Vice President, Chief Financial Officer, and 
    Principal Accounting Officer 
    February 18, 2011

/s/   Reed
    E. Hundt 

Reed
    E. Hundt 
    Director 
    February 18, 2011

/s/   Frank
    D. Yeary 

Frank
    D. Yeary 
    Director 
    February 18, 2011

/s/   Paul
    S. Otellini 

Paul
    S. Otellini 
    President, Chief Executive Officer, Director, and 
    Principal Executive Officer 
    February 18, 2011

/s/   David
    B. Yoffie 

David
    B. Yoffie 
    Director 
    February 18, 2011

/s/   James
    D. Plummer 

James
    D. Plummer 
    Director 
    February 18, 2011

116

<EX-12.1>
 2
 f56033exv12w1.htm
 STATEMENT SETTING FORTH THE COMPUTATION OF RATIOS OF EARNINGS TO FIXED CHARGES

exv12w1 

Exhibit 12.1 

INTEL CORPORATION 2010 FORM 10-K 

STATEMENT SETTING FORTH THE COMPUTATION 
OF RATIOS OF EARNINGS TO FIXED CHARGES FOR INTEL CORPORATION 

(In Millions, Except Ratios)

1   
       
      After adjustments required by Item 503(d) of the U.S. Securities and Exchange
Regulation S-K.  

2   
       
      Interest within provision for taxes on the consolidated statements of income is not
included.  

</EX-12.1>

<EX-21.1>
 3
 f56033exv21w1.htm
 INTEL CORPORATION SUBSIDIARIES

exv21w1 

Exhibit 21.1 

INTEL CORPORATION 

SUBSIDIARIES (All 100% Owned) 1  

Subsidiaries of the Registrant  
       
      State or Other Jurisdiction of Incorporation  

Componentes Intel de Costa Rica, S.A.

Costa Rica 

Intel Americas, Inc.

Delaware, U.S. 

Intel Asia Holding Limited

Hong Kong 

Intel Capital (Cayman) Corporation

Cayman Islands 

Intel Capital Corporation

Delaware, U.S. 

Intel China Ltd.

People s Republic of China 

Intel Copenhagen ApS

Denmark 

Intel Corporation (UK) Ltd.

England and Wales 

Intel Electronics Finance Limited

Cayman Islands 

Intel Electronics Ltd.

Israel 

Intel Europe, Inc.

California, U.S. 

Intel Holdings B.V.

Netherlands 

Intel International

California, U.S. 

Intel Investment Management Limited

Cayman Islands 

Intel Ireland Limited

Cayman Islands 

Intel Israel (74) Limited

Israel 

Intel Israel Holdings B.V.

Netherlands 

Intel Kabushiki Kaisha

Japan 

Intel Malaysia Sdn. Berhad

Malaysia 

Intel Massachusetts, Inc.

Delaware, U.S. 

Intel Overseas Funding Corporation

Cayman Islands 

Intel Products (M) Sdn. Bhd.

Malaysia 

Intel Semiconductor (Dalian) Ltd.

People s Republic of China 

Intel Semiconductor (US) Limited

Delaware, U.S. 

Intel Technology Sdn. Berhad

Malaysia 

Mission College Investments Ltd.

Cayman Islands 

Wind River Systems, Inc.

Delaware, U.S. 

</EX-21.1>

<EX-23.1>
 4
 f56033exv23w1.htm
 CONSENT OF ERNST AND YOUNG LLP, INDEPENDENT REGISTERED PUBLIC ACCOUNTING FIRM

exv23w1 

Exhibit 23.1 

CONSENT OF ERNST   YOUNG LLP, INDEPENDENT REGISTERED PUBLIC ACCOUNTING FIRM

We consent to the incorporation by reference in the registration statements on Form S-8 (Nos.
333-172024, 33-33983, 333-24229, 333-45395, 333-49696, 333-57366, 333-59518, 333-59522,
333-59530, 333-63330, 333-115625, 333-124805, 333-135178, 333-135177, 333-143932, 333-125914,
333-141905, 333-160272, and 333-160824), Form S-4 (No. 333-158222), and Form S-3 (No. 333-157465)
of Intel Corporation of our reports dated February 18, 2011, with respect to the consolidated
financial statements and schedule of Intel Corporation, and the effectiveness of internal control
over financial reporting of Intel Corporation, included in this Annual Report on Form 10-K for the
year ended December 25, 2010.

/s/ Ernst   Young LLP

San Jose, California 
February 18, 2011

</EX-23.1>

<EX-31.1>
 5
 f56033exv31w1.htm
 CERTIFICATION OF CEO PURSUANT TO RULE 13A-14(A) OF THE EXCHANGE ACT

exv31w1 

Exhibit 31.1 

CERTIFICATION 

I, Paul S. Otellini, certify that:

1. 
       
     I have reviewed this annual report on Form 10-K of Intel Corporation; 

2. 
       
     Based on my knowledge, this report does not contain any untrue statement of a material fact
or omit to state a material fact necessary to make the statements made, in light of the
circumstances under which such statements were made, not misleading with respect to the period
covered by this report; 

3. 
       
     Based on my knowledge, the financial statements, and other financial information included in
this report, fairly present in all material respects the financial condition, results of
operations and cash flows of the registrant as of, and for, the periods presented in this
report; 

4. 
       
     The registrant s other certifying officer(s) and I are responsible for establishing and
maintaining disclosure controls and procedures (as defined in Exchange Act Rules 13a-15(e) and
15d-15(e)) and internal control over financial reporting (as defined in Exchange Act Rules
13a-15(f) and 15d-15(f)) for the registrant and have: 

a) 
       
     Designed such disclosure controls and procedures, or caused such disclosure controls and
procedures to be designed under our supervision, to ensure that material information
relating to the registrant, including its consolidated subsidiaries, is made known to us by
others within those entities, particularly during the period in which this report is being
prepared; 

b) 
       
     Designed such internal control over financial reporting, or caused such internal control
over financial reporting to be designed under our supervision, to provide reasonable
assurance regarding the reliability of financial reporting and the preparation of financial
statements for external purposes in accordance with generally accepted accounting
principles; 

c) 
       
     Evaluated the effectiveness of the registrant s disclosure controls and procedures and
presented in this report our conclusions about the effectiveness of the disclosure controls
and procedures, as of the end of the period covered by this report based on such evaluation;
and 

d) 
       
     Disclosed in this report any change in the registrant s internal control over financial
reporting that occurred during the registrant s most recent fiscal quarter (the registrant s
fourth fiscal quarter in the case of an annual report) that has materially affected, or is
reasonably likely to materially affect, the registrant s internal control over financial
reporting; and 

5. 
       
     The registrant s other certifying officer(s) and I have disclosed, based on our most recent
evaluation of internal control over financial reporting, to the registrant s auditors and the
audit committee of the registrant s board of directors (or persons performing the equivalent
functions): 

a) 
       
     All significant deficiencies and material weaknesses in the design or operation of
internal control over financial reporting which are reasonably likely to adversely affect
the registrant s ability to record, process, summarize and report financial information; and 

b) 
       
     Any fraud, whether or not material, that involves management or other employees who have a
significant role in the registrant s internal control over financial reporting. 

Date: February 18, 2011  
     By:   
     /s/ Paul S. Otellini

Paul S. Otellini  

President and Chief Executive Officer  

</EX-31.1>

<EX-31.2>
 6
 f56033exv31w2.htm
 CERTIFICATION OF CFO AND PAO PURSUANT TO RULE 13A-14(A) OF THE EXCHANGE ACT

exv31w2 

Exhibit 31.2 

CERTIFICATION 

I, Stacy J. Smith, certify that:

1. 
       
     I have reviewed this annual report on Form 10-K of Intel Corporation; 

2. 
       
     Based on my knowledge, this report does not contain any untrue statement of a material fact
or omit to state a material fact necessary to make the statements made, in light of the
circumstances under which such statements were made, not misleading with respect to the period
covered by this report; 

3. 
       
     Based on my knowledge, the financial statements, and other financial information included in
this report, fairly present in all material respects the financial condition, results of
operations and cash flows of the registrant as of, and for, the periods presented in this
report; 

4. 
       
     The registrant s other certifying officer(s) and I are responsible for establishing and
maintaining disclosure controls and procedures (as defined in Exchange Act Rules 13a-15(e) and
15d-15(e)) and internal control over financial reporting (as defined in Exchange Act Rules
13a-15(f) and 15d-15(f)) for the registrant and have: 

a) 
       
     Designed such disclosure controls and procedures, or caused such disclosure controls and
procedures to be designed under our supervision, to ensure that material information
relating to the registrant, including its consolidated subsidiaries, is made known to us by
others within those entities, particularly during the period in which this report is being
prepared; 

b) 
       
     Designed such internal control over financial reporting, or caused such internal control
over financial reporting to be designed under our supervision, to provide reasonable
assurance regarding the reliability of financial reporting and the preparation of financial
statements for external purposes in accordance with generally accepted accounting
principles; 

c) 
       
     Evaluated the effectiveness of the registrant s disclosure controls and procedures and
presented in this report our conclusions about the effectiveness of the disclosure controls
and procedures, as of the end of the period covered by this report based on such evaluation;
and 

d) 
       
     Disclosed in this report any change in the registrant s internal control over financial
reporting that occurred during the registrant s most recent fiscal quarter (the registrant s
fourth fiscal quarter in the case of an annual report) that has materially affected, or is
reasonably likely to materially affect, the registrant s internal control over financial
reporting; and 

5. 
       
     The registrant s other certifying officer(s) and I have disclosed, based on our most recent
evaluation of internal control over financial reporting, to the registrant s auditors and the
audit committee of the registrant s board of directors (or persons performing the equivalent
functions): 

a) 
       
     All significant deficiencies and material weaknesses in the design or operation of
internal control over financial reporting which are reasonably likely to adversely affect
the registrant s ability to record, process, summarize and report financial information; and 

b) 
       
     Any fraud, whether or not material, that involves management or other employees who have
a significant role in the registrant s internal control over financial reporting. 

Date: February 18, 2011  
     By:   
     /s/ Stacy J. Smith

Stacy J. Smith  

Senior Vice President, Chief Financial Officer, and
Principal Accounting Officer  

</EX-31.2>

<EX-32.1>
 7
 f56033exv32w1.htm
 CERTIFICATION OF CEO AND CFO/PAO PURSUANT TO RULE 13A-14(B) OF THE EXCHANGE ACT

exv32w1 

Exhibit 32.1 

CERTIFICATION 

Each of the undersigned hereby certifies, for the purposes of section 1350 of chapter 63 of title
18 of the United States Code, as adopted pursuant to Section 906 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002,
in his capacity as an officer of Intel Corporation (Intel), that, to his knowledge, the Annual
Report of Intel on Form 10-K for the period ended December 25, 2010, fully complies with the
requirements of Section 13(a) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 and that the information
contained in such report fairly presents, in all material respects, the financial condition and
results of operations of Intel. This written statement is being furnished to the Securities and
Exchange Commission as an exhibit to such Form 10-K. A signed original of this statement has been
provided to Intel and will be retained by Intel and furnished to the Securities and Exchange
Commission or its staff upon request.

Date: February 18, 2011  
     By:   
     /s/ Paul S. Otellini

Paul S. Otellini  

President and Chief Executive Officer  

Date: February 18, 2011  
     By:   
     /s/ Stacy J. Smith

Stacy J. Smith  

Senior Vice President, Chief Financial Officer, and
Principal Accounting Officer  

</EX-32.1>

<EX-101.INS>
 8
 intc-20101225.xml
 EX-101 INSTANCE DOCUMENT

</EX-101.INS>

<EX-101.SCH>
 9
 intc-20101225.xsd
 EX-101 SCHEMA DOCUMENT

</EX-101.SCH>

<EX-101.CAL>
 10
 intc-20101225_cal.xml
 EX-101 CALCULATION LINKBASE DOCUMENT

</EX-101.CAL>

<EX-101.LAB>
 11
 intc-20101225_lab.xml
 EX-101 LABELS LINKBASE DOCUMENT

</EX-101.LAB>

<EX-101.PRE>
 12
 intc-20101225_pre.xml
 EX-101 PRESENTATION LINKBASE DOCUMENT

</EX-101.PRE>

<EX-101.DEF>
 13
 intc-20101225_def.xml
 EX-101 DEFINITION LINKBASE DOCUMENT

</EX-101.DEF>

