<Header>
<FileStats>
    <FileName>20101123_10-K_edgar_data_32604_0001144204-10-063258_1.txt</FileName>
    <GrossFileSize>15685530</GrossFileSize>
    <NetFileSize>251181</NetFileSize>
    <NonText_DocumentType_Chars>2355260</NonText_DocumentType_Chars>
    <HTML_Chars>2734993</HTML_Chars>
    <XBRL_Chars>3179378</XBRL_Chars>
    <XML_Chars>6041205</XML_Chars>
    <N_Tables>54</N_Tables>
    <N_Exhibits>13</N_Exhibits>
</FileStats>
<SEC-Header>
0001144204-10-063258.hdr.sgml : 20101123
<ACCEPTANCE-DATETIME>20101123171224
ACCESSION NUMBER:		0001144204-10-063258
CONFORMED SUBMISSION TYPE:	10-K
PUBLIC DOCUMENT COUNT:		14
CONFORMED PERIOD OF REPORT:	20100930
FILED AS OF DATE:		20101123
DATE AS OF CHANGE:		20101123

FILER:

	COMPANY DATA:	
		COMPANY CONFORMED NAME:			EMERSON ELECTRIC CO
		CENTRAL INDEX KEY:			0000032604
		STANDARD INDUSTRIAL CLASSIFICATION:	ELECTRONIC & OTHER ELECTRICAL EQUIPMENT (NO COMPUTER EQUIP) [3600]
		IRS NUMBER:				430259330
		STATE OF INCORPORATION:			MO
		FISCAL YEAR END:			0930

	FILING VALUES:
		FORM TYPE:		10-K
		SEC ACT:		1934 Act
		SEC FILE NUMBER:	001-00278
		FILM NUMBER:		101212364

	BUSINESS ADDRESS:	
		STREET 1:		8000 W FLORISSANT AVE
		STREET 2:		P O BOX 4100
		CITY:			ST LOUIS
		STATE:			MO
		ZIP:			63136
		BUSINESS PHONE:		3145532000

	MAIL ADDRESS:	
		STREET 1:		8000 W. FLORISSANT
		STREET 2:		P.O. BOX 4100
		CITY:			ST LOUIS
		STATE:			MO
		ZIP:			63136

	FORMER COMPANY:	
		FORMER CONFORMED NAME:	EMERSON ELECTRIC MANUFACTUING CO
		DATE OF NAME CHANGE:	19730710

</SEC-Header>
</Header>

 
Proc-Type: 2001,MIC-CLEAR
Originator-Name: webmaster@www.sec.gov
Originator-Key-Asymmetric:
 MFgwCgYEVQgBAQICAf8DSgAwRwJAW2sNKK9AVtBzYZmr6aGjlWyK3XmZv3dTINen
 TWSM7vrzLADbmYQaionwg5sDW3P6oaM5D3tdezXMm7z1T+B+twIDAQAB
MIC-Info: RSA-MD5,RSA,
 R15+QQEugtuFd76mOLMZ0XWNGAh+OPZTEBXmWlm6jvSpI5Sdbtw6xhEDYxNJsu1y
 reX9nNKOTj0U/aj6e8n4cw==

 0001144204-10-063258.txt : 20101123

10-K
 1
 v203504_10k.htm
 10-K

UNITED
STATES 

      SECURITIES
AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION 

      Washington,
D.C. 20549 

FORM
10-K 

x  ANNUAL REPORT PURSUANT
TO SECTION 13 OR 15(d) OF THE SECURITIES 

      EXCHANGE
ACT OF 1934 

For
the fiscal year ended September 30, 2010 

      OR 

          TRANSITION REPORT
PURSUANT TO SECTION 13 OR 15(d) OF THE SECURITIES 

      EXCHANGE
ACT OF 1934 

For the
transition period from ____________________ to __________________ 

Commission
file number 1-278 

EMERSON
ELECTRIC CO. 

      (Exact
name of registrant as specified in its charter) 

Registrant's
telephone number, including area code:  (314) 553-2000  

      Securities
registered pursuant to Section 12(b) of the Act: 

Title of each class 

Name of each exchange on 

                    which registered 

Common
      Stock of $0.50 par value per share 

New
      York Stock Exchange 

                    Chicago
      Stock Exchange 

Securities
registered pursuant to Section 12(g) of the Act:  None  

Indicate
by check mark if the registrant is a well-known seasoned issuer, as defined in
Rule 405 of the Securities Act. Yes  x  No

Indicate
by check mark if the registrant is not required to file reports pursuant to
Section 13 or Section 15(d) of the Act. Yes     No  x  

Indicate
by check mark whether the registrant (1) has filed all reports required to be
filed by Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 during the
preceding 12 months (or for such shorter period that the registrant was required
to file such reports), and (2) has been subject to such filing requirements for
the past 90 days. Yes  x  No

Indicate
by check mark whether the registrant has submitted electronically and posted on
its corporate Web site, if any, every Interactive Data File required to be
submitted and posted pursuant to Rule 405 of Regulation S-T ( 232.405 of this
chapter) during the preceding 12 months (or for such shorter period that the
registrant was required to submit and post such files) Yes  x  No

Indicate
by check mark if disclosure of delinquent filers pursuant to Item 405 of
Regulation S-K ( 229.405 of this chapter) is not contained herein, and will not
be contained, to the best of registrant's knowledge, in definitive proxy or
information statements incorporated by reference in Part III of this Form 10-K
or any amendment to this Form 10-K.  x  

Indicate
by check mark whether the registrant is a large accelerated filer, an
accelerated filer, a non-accelerated filer, or a smaller reporting company. See
the definitions of  large accelerated filer,   accelerated filer  and  smaller
reporting company  in Rule 12b-2 of the Exchange Act. 

Large
      accelerated filer  x  

Accelerated
      filer     

Non-accelerated
      filer     (Do
      not check if a smaller reporting company) 

Smaller
      reporting company     

Indicate
by check mark whether the registrant is a shell company (as defined in Rule
12b-2 of the Act). 

      Yes       No  x  

Aggregate
market value of the voting stock held by nonaffiliates of the registrant as of
close of business on March 31, 2010: $37.8 billion. 

Common
stock outstanding at October 31, 2010:  752,657,107
shares. 

Documents
Incorporated by Reference 

1.   

Portions
      of Emerson Electric Co. 2010 Annual Report to Stockholders (Parts I and
      II). 

2.   

Portions
      of Emerson Electric Co. Notice of 2011 Annual Meeting of Stockholders and
      Proxy Statement (Part III). 

2 

PART
I 

Item
1.  Business  

Emerson
was incorporated in Missouri in 1890, and has grown from a regional manufacturer
of electric motors and fans into a diversified global technology company. Having
expanded its product lines through internal growth and acquisitions, Emerson
today is designing and supplying product technology and delivering engineering
services and solutions in a wide range of industrial, commercial and consumer
markets around the world. 

Emerson
is organized into the following business segments, based on the nature of the
products and services rendered: 

Process
      Management  - providing measurement, control and diagnostic
      capabilities for automated industrial processes producing items such as
      foods, fuels, medicines and power. 

Industrial
      Automation  - bringing integrated manufacturing solutions to diverse
      industries worldwide. 

Network Power  -
      providing power conditioning and reliability and environmental control to
      help keep telecommunication systems, data networks and other critical
      business applications continuously
operating. 

Climate
      Technologies  - enhancing household and commercial comfort as well
      as food safety and energy efficiency through air conditioning and
      refrigeration technology. 

Tools and
      Storage  - providing tools for professionals and homeowners, home
      and commercial storage systems, and appliance
  solutions. 

Sales,
earnings before interest and income taxes, and total assets attributable to each
segment for the three years ended September 30, 2010, are set forth in Note 16
of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements of the 2010 Annual Report, which
note is hereby incorporated by reference. Sales by segment in 2010 were Process
Management 28 percent, Industrial Automation 20 percent, Network Power 27
percent, Climate Technologies 17 percent, and Tools and Storage 8 percent. Sales
by geographic destination in 2010 were United States 43 percent, Europe 21
percent, Asia 23 percent and other regions 13 percent. Information with respect
to acquisition and divestiture activities and rationalization of operations by
Emerson is set forth in Notes 3 and 5 of Notes to Consolidated Financial
Statements of the 2010 Annual Report, which notes are hereby incorporated by
reference. 

PROCESS
MANAGEMENT 

The
Process Management segment offers customers product technology as well as
engineering and project management services for precision control, monitoring
and asset optimization of oil and gas reservoirs and plants that produce power
or that process or treat such items as oil, natural gas and petrochemicals; food
and beverages; pulp and paper; pharmaceuticals; and municipal water supplies.
This array of products and services helps customers optimize their plant
capabilities in the areas of plant safety and reliability, and product quality
and output. In 2010, sales by geographic destination for this segment were
United States 33 percent, Europe 23 percent, Asia 23 percent and other regions
21 percent. 

Process
Management Systems and Software 

Process
Management systems and software control plant processes by collecting and
analyzing information from measurement devices in the plant, and then using that
information to adjust valves, pumps, motors, drives and other control hardware
for maximum product quality and process efficiency. Software capabilities also
include upstream oil and gas reservoir simulation and modeling for
production 

3 

optimization.
Emerson s process control systems can be extended wirelessly to support a mobile
workforce with handheld tools/communicators, provide site-wide location tracking
of people and assets, enable video monitoring and communicate with wireless
field devices, thereby increasing the information available to
operators. 

Measurement
and Analytical Instrumentation 

Measurement
instrumentation measures the physical properties of liquids or gases in a
process stream, such as pressure, temperature, level, or rate and amount of
flow, and communicates this information to the control system. Measurement
technologies provided by Emerson include Coriolis direct mass flow, magnetic
flow, vortex flow, ultrasonic flow, differential pressure, ultralow-flow fluid
measurement, temperature sensors and radar-based tank gauging. Emerson
measurement products are also often used in custody transfer applications, such
as the transfer of gasoline from a storage tank to a tanker truck, where precise
metering of the amount of fluid transferred helps ensure accurate asset
management. Complementary products include onshore and subsea multi-phase
meters, wetgas meters, downhole gauges and corrosion/erosion
instruments. 

Analytical
instrumentation analyzes the chemical composition of process fluids and
emissions to enhance quality and efficiency, as well as environmental
compliance. Emerson s analytical technologies include process gas
chromatographs, in-situ oxygen analyzers, infrared gas and process fluid
analyzers, combustion analyzers and systems, and analyzers that measure pH,
conductivity and water quality. 

Emerson
also provides these same technologies with wireless communication capability.
This allows customers to monitor processes or equipment that were previously not
measurable (remote, moving/rotating) or not economical to measure due to the
cost and difficulty of running wires in industrial process plants. 

Valves,
Actuators and Regulators 

Control
valves respond to commands from the control system by continuously and precisely
modulating the flow of process fluids to provide maximum process efficiency and
product quality. Emerson provides sliding stem valves, rotary valves, butterfly
valves and related valve actuators and controllers. Emerson also provides a line
of industrial and residential regulators, whose function is to reduce the
pressure of fluids such as liquid natural gas and liquid petroleum gas for
transfer from high-pressure supply lines to lower pressure systems. 

PlantWeb    Digital
Plant Architecture 

Emerson s
PlantWeb   digital
plant architecture combines the technologies described above with the advantages
of  intelligent  plant devices (valves and measurement instruments that have
advanced diagnostic capabilities), open communication standards (non-proprietary
wired and wireless digital protocols allowing the plant devices and the control
system to  talk  with one another) and integrated modular software, not only to
better control the process but also to collect and analyze valuable information
about plant assets and processes. This capability gives customers the ability to
detect or predict changes in equipment and process performance and the impact
they can have on plant operations. The PlantWeb   architecture
provides the insight to improve plant availability and safety, and also
furnishes a platform to continually improve asset management and standards
compliance, and to reduce startup, operations and maintenance
costs. 

Industry
Services and Solutions 

Emerson s
array of process automation and asset optimization services can improve
automation project implementation time and costs, increase process availability
and productivity, and reduce total cost of ownership. Global industry centers
offer engineering and project management services to help customers extract
maximum performance and reliability from their process equipment and automation
assets. These centers serve industries such as oil and gas, pulp and paper,
chemical, power, food and beverage, and life sciences. They also assist
customers in diagnosing equipment problems and plant
inefficiencies. 

4 

Distribution 

The
principal worldwide distribution channel for the Process Management segment is a
direct sales force, although a network of independent sales representatives, and
to a lesser extent, independent distributors purchasing these products for
resale are also utilized. The majority of sales in the United States are made
through a direct sales force with the remainder primarily through independent
sales representatives. In Europe and Asia, sales are almost exclusively made
through a direct sales force with the remainder split evenly between independent
sales representatives and distributors. 

Brands 

Service/trademarks
and trade names within the Process Management segment include Emerson Process
Management, AMS Suite, Baumann, Bettis, Bristol, CSI, Damcos, Daniel, DeltaV,
EIM, El-O-Matic, Enable, Epro, Fisher, Go Switch, Guardian, Micro Motion,
Ovation, PlantWeb, RMS, ROC, Rosemount, Roxar, Smart Process, SureService,
Tescom, TopWorx and Valvetop. 

INDUSTRIAL
AUTOMATION 

The
Industrial Automation segment provides integrated manufacturing solutions to our
customers at the source of manufacturing their own products. Products include
motors, power transmission solutions, alternators, fluid controls and materials
joining equipment. Through these offerings, Emerson brings technology and
enhanced quality to the customer s final product. In 2010, sales by geographic
destination for this segment were United States 37 percent, Europe 38 percent,
Asia 16 percent and other regions 9 percent. 

Motors
and Drives 

Emerson
provides a broad line of drives and electric motors that are used in a wide
variety of manufacturing operations and products, including production assembly
lines, escalators in shopping malls and supermarket checkout stations. Products
in this category include alternating current (AC) and direct current (DC)
electrical variable speed drives, servo motors, pump motors, drive control
systems, integral horsepower motors (1 HP and above), fractional horsepower
motors (less than 1 HP), hermetic motors and gear drives. 

Power
Transmission 

Emerson s
power transmission products include belt and chain drives, helical and worm
gearing, gear motors, motor sheaves, pulleys, mounted and unmounted bearings,
couplings, chains and sprockets. They are used to transmit power mechanically in
a wide range of manufacturing and material handling operations and products. Our
design and application experience enable us to provide both standard and
customized automation and power transmission solutions to our
customers. 

Power
Generation 

Emerson
provides alternators (low, medium and high voltage) for use in diesel or gas
powered generator sets, as well as high frequency alternators, AC
motor/generator sets, traction generators, wind power generators, wind turbine
pitch control systems and solar photovoltaic converters. 

Fluid
Power and Fluid Control 

Products
in this category control and power the flow of fluids (liquids and gases) in
manufacturing operations such as automobile assembly, food processing, textile
manufacturing and petrochemical processing. They include solenoid and pneumatic
valves, valve position indicators, pneumatic cylinders, air preparation
equipment, and pressure, vacuum and temperature switches.  

5 

Materials
Joining and Precision Cleaning 

Emerson
supplies both plastics joining technologies and equipment, and metal welding and
joining processes to a diversified manufacturing customer base, including
automotive, medical devices and toys. The Company also provides precision
cleaning and liquid processing solutions to industrial and commercial
manufacturers. Products include ultrasonic joining and cleaning equipment;
linear and orbital vibration welding equipment; systems for hot plate welding,
spin welding and laser welding; and aqueous, semi-aqueous and vapor cleaning
systems. 

Electrical
Distribution 

Emerson s
majority-owned EGS Electrical Group joint venture with SPX Corporation
manufactures a broad line of components for current- and noncurrent-carrying
electrical distribution devices. These products include conduit and cable
fittings, plugs and receptacles, industrial lighting, and enclosures and
controls. Products in this category are used in hazardous, industrial,
commercial and construction environments, such as oil and gas drilling and
production sites, pulp and paper mills and petrochemical plants. 

Distribution 

On a
worldwide basis, the primary distribution channel for the Industrial Automation
segment is through direct sales forces. Most products sold worldwide to original
equipment manufacturers are through a direct sales force. Independent
distributors constitute the next significant sales channel, mostly to reach end
users. To a lesser extent, independent sales representatives are utilized,
particularly for electrical distribution products in the United
States. 

Brands 

Service/trademarks
and trade names within the Industrial Automation segment include Emerson
Industrial Automation, Appleton, ASCO, ASCO Joucomatic, ASCO Numatics, Branson
Ultrasonics, Browning, Control Techniques, Emerson Power Transmission, Kato
Engineering, Kop-Flex, Leroy Somer, McGill, Morse, O-Z/Gedney, SSB Wind Systems,
System Plast and Trident. 

NETWORK
POWER 

Emerson s
Network Power segment designs, manufactures, installs and maintains products
providing  grid to chip  electric power conditioning, power reliability and
environmental control for telecommunications networks, data centers and other
critical applications, and also provides comprehensive data center
infrastructure management solutions. Products in this segment include
uninterruptible power systems, embedded power supplies, precision cooling and
inbound power systems, integrated data center monitoring and control devices and
software, plus 24-hour service. In 2010, sales by geographic destination for
this segment were United States 40 percent, Europe 16 percent, Asia 34 percent
and other regions 10 percent. 

Power
Systems 

Emerson
supplies uninterruptible AC and DC power systems, which provide reliable,
conditioned power to telecommunication networks, data centers and other critical
equipment in the event of a blackout or line surges and spikes. Power Systems 
products range from stand-alone units to complete systems incorporating
rectifiers, distribution units, surge protection, batteries and system
supervision. 

Embedded
Power 

Embedded
power supplies are installed by original equipment manufacturers to convert or
condition power for microprocessors and peripherals in a wide range of
telecommunication, health care, computer and industrial applications using
standard or custom AC/DC or DC/DC designs. They are also used in consumer
products for chargers and power adaptors. 

6 

Embedded
Computing 

Embedded
Computing designs and develops embedded computer systems for original equipment
manufacturers and systems integrators serving telecommunications, defense,
aerospace, medical and industrial automation end markets. Products range from
communication platforms, blades and modules to enabling software and
professional services. 

Precision
Cooling 

Emerson s
precision cooling products provide temperature and humidity control for
computers, telecommunications and other sensitive equipment. These products
range from 14,000 to 4 million BTUs in capacity and are available in up-flow,
down-flow and overhead configurations. 

Inbound
Power Systems 

Emerson
inbound power technology provides reliable power systems which automatically
transfer critical application loads from a utility to emergency backup
generators in the event of a blackout or brownout. Products include automatic
transfer switches, paralleling and synchronizing gear and related distribution
equipment and control systems. 

Data
Center Infrastructure Management 

Emerson
provides comprehensive data center management solutions through server access
technologies that enable access, monitoring and control of the information
technology infrastructure and provide linkage with data center
operations. 

Connectivity
Solutions 

Emerson s
connectivity products serve the needs of the wireless communications, telephone
and data network, CATV, defense, security systems and health care industries and
other industrial customers globally with a broad range of radio frequency,
microwave and fiber optic interconnect components and assemblies. 

Service
and Site Operations 

Emerson
staffs Energy Operation Centers in more than 30 countries, and deploys field
service personnel worldwide to assist customers in managing their network
support systems. Our services include on-site operations management, energy
consumption monitoring, preventive maintenance, electrical testing, remote
monitoring and management and 24-hour service capability. 

Distribution 

The
Network Power segment sells primarily through worldwide direct sales forces,
particularly in Europe and Asia. The remainder of sales is handled by
independent sales representatives, particularly in the United States, and
independent distributors. 

Brands 

Service/trademarks
and trade names within the Network Power segment include Emerson Network Power,
Aperture, Artesyn, ASCO Power Technologies, Astec, Avocent, Chloride, Kn rr,
Liebert, Liebert Services, Netspan, Netsure, Semflex, Stratos and
Trompeter. 

7 

CLIMATE
TECHNOLOGIES 

The
Climate Technologies segment provides products and services for all areas of the
climate control industry, including residential, commercial and industrial
heating and air conditioning, and commercial and industrial refrigeration. Our
technology enables homeowners and businesses to better manage their heating, air
conditioning and refrigeration systems for improved control and lower energy
bills. This segment also provides services that digitally control and remotely
monitor refrigeration units in grocery stores and other food distribution
outlets to enhance freshness and food safety. In 2010, sales by geographic
destination for this segment were United States 54 percent, Europe 13 percent,
Asia 23 percent and other regions 10 percent. 

Residential
and Commercial Heating and Air Conditioning 

Emerson
provides a full range of heating and air conditioning products that help reduce
operational and energy costs and create comfortable environments in all types of
buildings. These products include reciprocating and scroll air conditioning
compressors, including an ultra-efficient residential scroll compressor with two
stages of cooling capacity; standard and programmable thermostats; monitoring
equipment and electronic controls for gas and electric heating systems; gas
valves for furnaces and water heaters; nitride ignition systems for furnaces;
sensors and thermistors for home appliances; and temperature sensors and
controls. 

Commercial
and Industrial Refrigeration 

Emerson s
technology is incorporated into equipment to refrigerate food and beverages in
supermarkets, convenience stores, food service operations and refrigerated
trucks and transport containers. Our refrigeration products are also used in a
wide variety of industrial applications, including medical applications, food
processing and cold storage. These products include reciprocating, scroll and
screw compressors; precision flow controls; system diagnostics and controls that
provide precise temperature management; and environmental control
systems. 

Services
and Solutions 

Emerson
services and solutions enable global customers to optimize the performance of
facilities including large-scale retailers, supermarkets, convenience stores and
food services facilities. By providing expertise in air conditioning,
refrigeration and lighting control, Emerson performs as a complete facility
manager for its customers. The Company s expertise allows customers to reduce
energy and maintenance costs, thereby improving overall facility uptime. In
addition to industry-leading controls, products include facility design and
project management, commissioning services, facility monitoring services and
energy modeling and consultancy. 

Distribution 

Climate
Technologies segment sales, primarily to original equipment manufacturers and
end users, are made predominately through worldwide direct sales force networks.
The remaining sales are primarily through independent distributor networks
throughout the world. 

Brands 

Service/trademarks
and trade names within the Climate Technologies segment include Emerson Climate
Technologies, Clive Samuels   Associates, Computer Process Controls,
Copeland, Design Services Network, Dixell, Emerson Climate Technologies
Distribution Services, Emerson Climate Technologies Educational Services,
Emerson Retail Services, Fusite, Therm-O-Disc, Vilter and
White-Rodgers. 

8 

TOOLS
AND STORAGE 

Emerson s
Tools and Storage segment (formerly Appliance and Tools; renamed subsequent to
the Company s sale of its appliance motors and U.S. commercial and industrial
motors businesses) includes a broad range of tools, storage products and
appliance solutions. In 2010, sales by geographic destination for this segment
were United States 80 percent, Europe 7 percent, Asia 4 percent and other
regions 9 percent. 

Professional
and Do-It-Yourself Tools 

Our
pipe-working tools are used by plumbing and mechanical professionals to install
and repair piping systems. These tools include pipe wrenches, pipe cutters, pipe
threading and roll grooving equipment; a time-saving system that joins tubing
through mechanical crimping; drain cleaners; diagnostic systems including
closed-circuit television pipe inspection and locating equipment; and tubing
tools. Other professional tools include water jetters, wet-dry vacuums,
commercial vacuums, rolling storage boxes, truck work boxes, bolt cutters, and
van and truck ladder racks. Do-it-yourself tools, available at home improvement
retail outlets, include drain cleaning equipment, pipe and tube working tools,
and wet-dry vacuums. 

Storage
Solutions 

Emerson
provides a wide variety of freestanding, fixed and mobile storage products for
residential, commercial, health care and food service applications. Our products
for the home include wall-mounted and freestanding shelving systems, cabinet and
closet organizers, home office storage, and drawer systems and containers,
available in wire, stainless steel and laminate. Our storage solutions also help
commercial customers utilize space in the most efficient manner. These solutions
include storage and display shelving, stock-picking and kitting carts, cabinets,
totes, bins, workstations, and merchandising and inventory storage racks.
Products provided to the health care industry assist in medical response and
treatment; they include emergency and operating room carts, medication carts,
polymer and wire shelving systems, and sterile worktables. Our food service
equipment helps meet the storage needs of the food service and hospitality
industries, such as restaurants and hotels. This equipment includes polymer and
wire storage systems, busing carts, pan and tray racks, transport carts and
workstations. 

Appliances
and Components 

Emerson
provides a number of appliance solutions, including residential and commercial
food waste disposers, ceiling fans, instant hot water dispensers and compact
electric water heaters. 

Distribution 

The
principal worldwide distribution channels for the Tools and Storage segment are
distributors and direct sales forces. Professional tools are sold almost
exclusively worldwide through distributors. Independent sales representatives
are utilized to a lesser extent, particularly for storage solutions. Appliance
solutions are sold almost exclusively through direct sales force
networks. 

Brands 

Service/trademarks
and trade names within the Tools and Storage segment include Emerson, Emerson
Appliance Solutions, Emerson Professional Tools, Emerson Storage Solutions,
ClosetMaid, Flo Healthcare, InSinkErator, Knaack, Lionville, MedDispense, METRO,
ProTeam, RIDGID and Weather Guard. 

9 

PRODUCTION 

Emerson
utilizes various production operations and methods. The principal production
operations are metal stamping, forming, casting, machining, welding, plating,
heat treating, painting and assembly. In addition, Emerson uses specialized
production operations, including automatic and semiautomatic testing, automated
material handling and storage, ferrous and nonferrous machining and special
furnaces for heat treating and foundry applications. Management believes the
equipment, machinery and tooling used in these processes are of modern design
and well maintained. 

RAW
MATERIALS 

Emerson's
major requirements for basic raw materials include steel, copper, cast iron,
electronics, aluminum and brass, and to a lesser extent, plastics and other
petroleum-based chemicals. Emerson has multiple sources of supply for each of
its major requirements and is not significantly dependent on any one or a few
suppliers. Although recent high prices for some raw materials have caused
pricing pressures for some of our businesses, the raw materials and various
purchased components required for the Company s products have generally been
available in sufficient quantities. 

PATENTS,
TRADEMARKS AND LICENSES 

The
Company has many patents, trademarks and licenses obtained over a number of
years which expire at various dates in the future. While proprietary
intellectual property is important to the Company, management believes the loss
of any intellectual property right would not materially impact the Company or
any of its segments. 

BACKLOG 

The
Company s estimated consolidated order backlog was $5,616 million and $4,615
million at September 30, 2010 and 2009, respectively. Nearly the entire
September 30, 2010 consolidated backlog amount is expected to be shipped within
one year. The estimated backlog by business segment at September 30, 2010 and
2009 follows (dollars in millions): 

10 

COMPETITION 

Emerson's
businesses operate in markets that are highly competitive and the Company
competes based on product performance, quality, service and/or price across the
industries and markets served. A significant element of the Company's
competitive strategy is to deliver solutions to our customers by manufacturing
high quality products at the best relevant global cost. Although no single
company competes directly with Emerson in all of the Company's product lines,
various companies compete in one or more product lines and the number of
competitors varies by product line. Some competitors have substantially greater
sales and assets than Emerson and the Company also competes with many smaller
companies. Management believes Emerson has a market leadership position in many
of its product lines. 

RESEARCH
AND DEVELOPMENT 

Costs
associated with Company-sponsored research and development activities were $473
million, $460 million and $458 million in 2010, 2009 and 2008,
respectively. 

ENVIRONMENT 

The
Company's manufacturing locations generate waste, the treatment, storage,
transportation and disposal of which are subject to federal, state, foreign
and/or local laws and regulations relating to the protection of the environment.
Compliance with laws regulating the discharge of materials into the environment
or otherwise relating to the protection of the environment has not had a
material effect upon Emerson's capital expenditures, earnings or competitive
position. The Company does not anticipate having material capital expenditures
for environmental control facilities during the next fiscal year. 

EMPLOYEES 

Emerson
and its subsidiaries had an average of approximately 127,700 employees during
2010. Management believes that the Company's employee relations are favorable.
Some of the Company's employees are represented under collective bargaining
agreements, but none of these agreements is considered significant. See Note 5
of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements of the 2010 Annual Report, which
note is hereby incorporated by reference, for further information. 

DOMESTIC
AND FOREIGN OPERATIONS 

International
sales were $11,938 million in 2010, $11,416 million in 2009 and $13,307 million
in 2008, including U.S. exports of $1,317 million, $1,211 million and $1,449
million in 2010, 2009 and 2008, respectively. Although there are additional
risks attendant to foreign operations, such as possible nationalization of
facilities, currency fluctuations and restrictions on the movement of funds,
Emerson's financial position has not been materially affected thereby to date.
See Note 16 of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements of the 2010 Annual
Report, which note is hereby incorporated by reference, for further information
with respect to foreign operations. 

INTERNET
ACCESS 

Emerson's
Forms 10-K, 10-Q, 8-K and all amendments to those reports are available without
charge through Emerson's website on the Internet as soon as reasonably
practicable after they are electronically filed with, or furnished to, the U.S.
Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC). They may be accessed as follows:
www.Emerson.com, Investor Relations, SEC Filings. Information on Emerson s
website does not constitute part of this Form 10-K. 

The
information set forth under,  Item 1A.  Risk Factors  is hereby
incorporated by reference. 

11 

Item
1A.  Risk Factors 

Investing
in our securities involves risks. We may amend or supplement the risk factors
described below from time to time by other reports we file with the SEC in the
future. 

We
Operate In Businesses That Are Subject To Competitive Pressures That Could
Affect Prices or Demand for Our Products 

Our
businesses operate in markets that are highly competitive, and we compete on the
basis of product performance, quality, service and/or price across the
industries and markets served. A significant element of our competitive strategy
is to deliver solutions to our customers by manufacturing high quality products
at the best relevant global cost. Some of our competitors have greater sales,
assets and financial resources than our Company. Competitive pressures could
adversely affect prices or customer demand for our products, impacting our
profit margins and/or resulting in a loss of market share. 

Our
Operating Results Depend In Part on Continued Successful Research, Development
and Marketing of New and/Or Improved Products and Services, and There Can Be No
Assurance That We Will Continue To Successfully Introduce New Products and
Services 

The
success of new and improved products and services depends on their initial and
continued acceptance by our customers. Our businesses are affected by varying
degrees of technological change and corresponding shifts in customer demand,
which result in unpredictable product transitions, shortened life cycles and
increased importance of being first to market with new products and services. We
may experience difficulties or delays in the research, development, production
and/or marketing of new products and services which may negatively impact our
operating results and prevent us from recouping or realizing a return on the
investments required to bring new products and services to market. 

We
Engage In Acquisitions, And May Encounter Difficulties in Integrating These
Businesses and Therefore We May Not Realize the Anticipated Benefits Of the
Acquisitions 

We are a
company that, from time to time, seeks to grow through strategic acquisitions.
In 2010 and in past years, we have made various acquisitions and entered into
joint venture arrangements intended to complement or expand our business, and
may continue to do so in the future (see Note 3 of Notes to Consolidated
Financial Statements of the 2010 Annual Report, which note is hereby
incorporated by reference). The success of these transactions will depend on our
ability to integrate assets and personnel acquired in these transactions and to
cooperate with our strategic partners. We may encounter difficulties in
integrating acquisitions with our operations, and in managing strategic
investments. Furthermore, we may not realize the degree, or timing, of benefits
we anticipate when we first enter into a transaction. Any of the foregoing could
adversely affect our business and results of operations. 

Access
To Funding Through The Capital Markets Is Essential To The Execution Of Our
Business Plan And If We Are Unable To Maintain Such Access We Could Experience A
Material Adverse Effect On Our Business And Financial Results 

Our
ability to invest in our businesses, make strategic acquisitions and refinance
maturing debt obligations requires access to the capital markets and sufficient
bank credit lines to support short-term borrowings. Volatility in the capital
markets may increase costs associated with issuing commercial paper or other
debt instruments, or affect the Company s ability to access those markets. If we
are unable to continue to access the capital markets, we could experience a
material adverse effect on our business and financial results. If our customers,
suppliers and financial institutions are unable to access the capital markets to
meet their commitments to the Company, our business could be adversely
impacted. 

12 

We
Use a Variety of Raw Materials and Components in Our Businesses, and Significant
Shortages or Price Increases Could Increase Our Operating Costs and Adversely
Impact the Competitive Positions of Our Products 

Our major
requirements for raw materials include steel, copper, cast iron, electronics,
aluminum and brass and, to a lesser extent, plastics and other petroleum-based
chemicals. Emerson has multiple sources of supply for each of its major
requirements and is not significantly dependent on any one or a few suppliers.
Significant shortages or price increases could impact the prices our affected
businesses charge, their operating costs and the competitive position of their
products and services, which could adversely affect our results of operations.
While we monitor market prices of the commodities we require and attempt to
reduce price exposure through hedging activities, this risk could adversely
affect our operating results. 

Our
Operations Depend On Production Facilities Throughout The World, A Majority Of
Which Are Located Outside The United States And Subject To Increased Risks Of
Disrupted Production Causing Delays In Shipments And Loss Of Customers And
Revenue 

We manage
businesses with manufacturing facilities worldwide, a majority of which are
located outside the United States. Emerging market sales now represent over
one-third of total sales and serving a global customer base requires that we
place more production in emerging markets to capitalize on market opportunities
and maintain our best-cost position. Our international production facilities and
operations could be disrupted by a natural disaster, labor strife, war,
political unrest, terrorist activity or public health concerns, particularly in
emerging countries that are not well-equipped to handle such
occurrences. 

Our
manufacturing facilities abroad also may be more susceptible to changes in laws
and policies in host countries and economic and political upheaval than our
domestic facilities. Any such disruption could cause delays in shipments of
products and the loss of sales and customers, and insurance proceeds may not
adequately compensate us. 

Our
Substantial Sales Abroad Subject Us to Economic Risk As Our Results of
Operations May Be Adversely Affected By Foreign Currency Fluctuations and
Changes in Local Government Regulations and Policies 

We sell,
manufacture, engineer, and purchase products in overseas markets. A significant
portion of our sales is outside the United States, and we expect sales from
non-U.S. markets to continue to represent a significant portion of our total
sales. International sales and operations are subject to changes in local
government regulations and policies, including those related to tariffs and
trade barriers, investments, taxation, exchange controls, and repatriation of
earnings. Changes in the relative values of currencies occur from time to time
and have affected our operating results and could do so in the future. While we
monitor our exchange rate exposures and attempt to reduce this exposure through
hedging activities, this risk could adversely affect our operating
results. 

Recessions,
Adverse Market Conditions or Downturns in the End Markets We Serve May
Negatively Impact Segment Revenues and Operating Results 

Segment
revenues, operating results and cash flows have varied in the past and may be
exposed to significant volatility from quarter to quarter in the future due to
changes in general economic conditions, recessions or adverse conditions in the
end markets we serve. These changes could adversely impact overall sales,
operating results and cash flows, which in turn could trigger impairment of
goodwill or other long-lived assets due to the fair value of such assets falling
below the Company s carrying value. Moreover, during economic downturns we may
undertake more extensive rationalization actions and therefore incur higher
rationalization expense during such periods. If our rationalization actions are
not sufficiently effective or if we must incur rationalization costs beyond what
we anticipate, we may not be able to achieve our anticipated operating
results.  

13 

We
Are Subject To Litigation and Environmental Regulations That Could Adversely
Impact Our Operating Results 

We are,
and may in the future be, a party to a number of legal proceedings and claims,
including those involving product liability and environmental matters, several
of which claim, or may in the future claim, significant damages. Given the
inherent uncertainty of litigation, we can offer no assurance that existing
litigation or a future adverse development will not have a material adverse
impact. We also are subject to various laws and regulations relating to
environmental protection and the discharge of materials into the environment,
and we could incur substantial costs as a result of the noncompliance with or
liability for cleanup or other costs or damages under environmental
laws. 

Item
1B.  Unresolved Staff Comments  

None. 

Item 2.
Properties  

At
September 30, 2010, Emerson had approximately 240 manufacturing locations
worldwide, of which approximately 160 were located outside the United States,
primarily in Europe and Asia, and to a lesser extent in Canada and Latin
America. The approximate numbers of manufacturing locations by business segment
are: Process Management, 60; Industrial Automation, 80; Network Power, 45;
Climate Technologies, 35; and Tools and Storage, 20. The majority of the
locations are owned, with the remainder occupied under lease. The Company
considers its facilities suitable and adequate for the purposes for which they
are used. 

Item 3. Legal
Proceedings  

The
information regarding legal proceedings set forth in Note 12 of Notes to
Consolidated Financial Statements of the 2010 Annual Report is hereby
incorporated by reference. 

Item 4. [Removed and
Reserved]  

14 

Executive
Officers of the Registrant 

The
following sets forth certain information as of November 23, 2010 with respect to
Emerson's executive officers. The Fiscal Year column indicates the first year
the executive served as an officer of the Company. These officers have been
elected or appointed to terms which expire February 1, 2011: 

*Also
chairman of the Executive Committee of the Board of Directors. 

There are
no family relationships among any of the executive officers and
directors. 

David N.
Farr has been Chief Executive Officer since October 2000 and was also appointed
Chairman of the Board in September 2004 and served as President from November
2005 to October 2010. Craig W. Ashmore was appointed Executive Vice President -
Planning and Development in October 2009. Prior to his current position, Mr.
Ashmore was Senior Vice President - Planning and Development from October 2004
to September 2009 and Group Vice President from 2003 to 2004. Frank J.
Dellaquila was appointed Chief Financial Officer in February 2010. Prior to his
current position, Mr. Dellaquila was Senior Vice President - Finance and
Controller from August 2009 to February 2010 and Senior Vice President -
Acquisitions and Development from 2004 to 2009. Walter J. Galvin was appointed
Vice Chairman in October 2009. Prior to his current position, Mr. Galvin was
Chief Financial Officer from 1993 to February 2010, Senior Executive Vice
President from October 2004 to September 2009 and Executive Vice President from
February 2000 to October 2004. Edward L. Monser was appointed President in
October 2010 and has been Chief Operating Officer since November
2001. Charles A. Peters has been Senior Executive Vice President since
October 2000. Richard J. Schlueter has been Vice President Accounting since 1999
and was also appointed Chief Accounting Officer in February 2003. Frank L.
Steeves was appointed Senior Vice President, Secretary and General Counsel in
March 2007, prior to which he was Vice Chairman of the Milwaukee-based law firm
of von Briesen   Roper, S.C., which has provided legal services to the
Company since 2001. Mr. Steeves joined von Briesen and Roper as a partner in
2001, and became Vice Chairman of the firm in 2004. 

15 

PART
II 

Item 5. Market for
Registrant's Common Equity, Related Stockholder Matters and Issuer Purchases of
Equity Securities  

Information
regarding the market for the Company's common stock, quarterly market price
ranges and dividend payments is set forth in Note 18 of Notes to Consolidated
Financial Statements of the 2010 Annual Report, which note is hereby
incorporated by reference. There were approximately 24,755 stockholders of
record at September 30, 2010. 

The
Company s Board of Directors authorized the repurchase of up to 80 million
shares under the May 2008 program. 

Item 6. Selected Financial
Data  

Years
ended September 30 

        (dollars
in millions, except per share amounts) 

Information
presented reflects the 2007 two-for-one stock split. The appliance motors and
U.S. commercial and industrial motors businesses for all periods presented, the
LANDesk unit for 2010 only, the European appliance motor and pump business for
2006 through 2008, and the Brooks Instrument flow meters and flow controls unit
for 2008 only, are classified as discontinued operations. See Note 3 of Notes to
Consolidated Financial Statements of the 2010 Annual Report, which note is
hereby incorporated by reference, for information regarding the Company's
acquisition and divestiture activities. 

16 

Item 7. Management's
Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of
Operations  

Information
appearing under  Results of Operations,   Financial Position, Capital Resources
and Liquidity,   Critical Accounting Policies,   New Accounting Pronouncements 
and the "Safe Harbor Statement" in the 2010 Annual Report are hereby
incorporated by reference. 

Fiscal 2011
Outlook  

Fiscal
year 2010 was a challenging year but improving economic circumstances and strong
operating results in the second half of the year have Emerson well positioned
moving into 2011. Underlying sales for fiscal year 2011 are expected to increase
in the range of positive 7 percent to 10 percent, which excludes an estimated
favorable increase of 5 percent due to completed acquisitions and foreign
currency translation. Net sales for the year are forecast to be in the range of
positive 12 percent to 15 percent compared with 2010 sales of $21
billion. The Company also expects operating profit margin in the range of
17.2 percent to 17.5 percent (excludes 3.0 percent to 2.8 percent for other
deductions, net and interest) and pretax margin of 14.2 percent to 14.7 percent.
Operating cash flow is estimated at $3.4 to $3.5 billion. There can be no
assurance what impact future exchange rate changes will have. 

Non-GAAP Financial
Measures  

To
supplement Emerson s financial information presented in accordance with U.S.
generally accepted accounting principles (GAAP), management uses certain
 non-GAAP financial measures,  as such term is defined in Regulation G under the
rules of the SEC, to clarify and enhance understanding of past performance and
prospects for the future. Generally, a non-GAAP financial measure is a numerical
measure of a company s operating performance, financial position or cash flows
that excludes or includes amounts that are included in or excluded from the most
directly comparable measure calculated and presented in accordance with GAAP.
For example, non-GAAP measures may exclude the impact of certain unique items
such as acquisitions, divestitures, one-time gains and losses or items outside
of management s control, such as foreign currency exchange rates. Management
believes that the following non-GAAP financial measures provide investors and
analysts useful insight into Emerson s financial position and operating
performance. Any non-GAAP measure provided should be viewed in addition to, and
not as an alternative to, the most directly comparable measure determined in
accordance with U.S. GAAP, as identified in italics below. Further, the
calculation of these non-GAAP financial measures may differ from the calculation
of similarly titled financial measures presented by other companies and
therefore may not be comparable among companies. 

Underlying
sales, which exclude the impact of acquisitions and divestitures during the
periods presented, and fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates, are
provided to facilitate relevant period-to-period comparisons of sales growth by
excluding these unique items that impact the overall comparability (GAAP
measure:  net
sales ). 

Operating
profit (defined as net sales less cost of sales and selling, general and
administrative expenses) and operating profit margin (defined as operating
profit divided by net sales) are indicative of short-term operational
performance and ongoing profitability. Management closely monitors operating
profit and operating profit margin of each business to evaluate past performance
and actions required to improve profitability (GAAP measures:  pretax earnings or pretax profit
margin ). 

Earnings,
earnings per share, return on equity and return on total capital excluding
one-time gains and losses provide additional insight into the underlying,
ongoing operating performance of the Company and facilitate period-to-period
comparisons by excluding the earnings impact of these items. Given the unique
nature of these one-time items, management believes that presenting earnings,
earnings per share, return on equity and return on total capital excluding them
is more representative of the Company s operational performance and may be more
useful for investors (GAAP measures:  earnings, earnings per share, return
on equity, return on total capital ). 

17 

Free cash
flow (operating cash flow less capital expenditures) is an indicator of the
Company s cash generating capabilities after considering investments in capital
assets which are necessary to maintain and enhance existing operations. The
determination of operating cash flow adds back non-cash depreciation expense to
earnings and thereby does not reflect a charge for necessary capital
expenditures. Management believes that free cash flow is useful to both
management and investors as a measure of the Company s ability to generate cash
(GAAP measure:  operating cash
flow ).   

Item 7A. Quantitative and
Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk  

Information
appearing under "Financial Instruments" in the 2010 Annual Report is hereby
incorporated by reference. 

Item 8. Financial Statements
and Supplementary Data  

The
consolidated financial statements and notes thereto of the Company and its
subsidiaries and the report thereon of KPMG LLP in the 2010 Annual Report are
hereby incorporated by reference. 

Item 9. Changes in and
Disagreements with Accountants on Accounting and Financial
Disclosure  

None. 

Item 9A. Controls and
Procedures  

Emerson
maintains a system of disclosure controls and procedures which is designed to
ensure that information required to be disclosed by the Company in the reports
filed or submitted under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 is recorded,
processed, summarized and reported within the time periods specified in the
SEC's rules and forms and is accumulated and communicated to management,
including the Company s certifying officers, as appropriate to allow timely
decisions regarding required disclosure. Based on an evaluation performed, the
Company's certifying officers have concluded that the disclosure controls and
procedures were effective as of September 30, 2010 to provide reasonable
assurance of achieving these objectives. 

Notwithstanding
the foregoing, there can be no assurance that the Company's disclosure controls
and procedures will detect or uncover all failures of persons within the Company
and its consolidated subsidiaries to report material information otherwise
required to be set forth in the Company's reports. 

There was
no change in the Company's internal control over financial reporting during the
quarter ended September 30, 2010, that has materially affected, or is reasonably
likely to materially affect, the Company's internal control over financial
reporting.  

Management s
report on internal control over financial reporting, and the related report of
the Company s auditor, KPMG LLP, an independent registered public accounting
firm, appearing in the 2010 Annual Report are hereby incorporated by
reference. 

Item 9B. Other
Information  

There
were no matters submitted to a vote of security holders during the quarter ended
September 30, 2010. 

18 

PART
III 

Item 10. Directors,
Executive Officers and Corporate Governance  

Information
regarding nominees and directors appearing under "Nominees and Continuing
Directors" in the Emerson Electric Co. Notice of Annual Meeting of Stockholders
and Proxy Statement for the February 2011 annual stockholders' meeting (the
"2011 Proxy Statement") is hereby incorporated by reference. Information
regarding executive officers is set forth in Part I of this report. Information
appearing under "Section 16(a) Beneficial Ownership Reporting Compliance" in the
2011 Proxy Statement is hereby incorporated by reference. Information regarding
the Audit Committee and Audit Committee Financial Expert appearing under "Board
of Directors and Committees" in the 2011 Proxy Statement is hereby incorporated
by reference. 

Emerson
has adopted a Code of Ethics that applies to the Company's chief executive
officer, chief financial officer and chief accounting officer; has posted such
Code of Ethics on its Internet website; and intends to satisfy the disclosure
requirement under Item 5.05 of Form 8-K by posting such information on its
Internet website. Emerson has adopted Charters for its Audit Committee,
Compensation Committee and Corporate Governance and Nominating Committee and a
Code of Business Ethics for directors, officers and employees, which are
available on its Internet website and are available in print to any shareholder
who requests them. Emerson has also adopted Corporate Governance Principles and
Practices, which are available on its Internet website and are available in
print to any shareholder who requests them. The Company's Internet website may
be accessed as follows: www.Emerson.com, Investor Relations, Corporate
Governance. 

Item 11. Executive
Compensation  

Information
appearing under  Board of Directors and Committees Compensation Committee, 
 Board of Directors and Committees Corporate Governance and Nominating
Committee,   Director Compensation,   Executive Compensation  (including, but
not limited to, the information set forth under  Compensation Discussion and
Analysis,   Compensation Committee Report  and  Summary Compensation Table ) and
 Compensation Committee Interlocks and Insider Participation  in the 2011 Proxy
Statement is hereby incorporated by reference. 

The
information contained in  Compensation Committee Report  shall not be deemed to
be filed with the SEC or subject to the liabilities of Section 18 of the
Securities Exchange Act of 1934 (the  Exchange Act ), except to the extent that
Emerson specifically incorporates such information into future filings under the
Securities Act of 1933 or the Exchange Act. 

Item 12. Security Ownership
of Certain Beneficial Owners and Management and Related Stockholder
Matters  

The
information regarding beneficial ownership of shares by nominees and continuing
directors, named executive officers and by all directors and executive officers
as a group appearing under "Stock Ownership of Directors, Executive Officers and
5% Beneficial Owners" in the 2011 Proxy Statement is hereby incorporated by
reference. 

Information
regarding equity compensation plans appearing under  Equity Compensation Plan
Information  in the 2011 Proxy Statement is hereby incorporated by reference.
Information regarding stock option plans and incentive shares plans set forth in
Note 14 of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements of the 2010 Annual Report
is hereby incorporated by reference. 

19 

Item 13. Certain
Relationships and Related Transactions, and Director
Independence  

Information
appearing under  Director Independence  in the 2011 Proxy Statement is hereby
incorporated by reference. 

Item 14. Principal
Accountant Fees and Services  

Information
appearing under "Fees Paid to KPMG LLP" in the 2011 Proxy Statement is hereby
incorporated by reference. 

PART
IV 

Item 15. Exhibits and
Financial Statement Schedules  

A) Documents
filed as a part of this report: 

1. 

The
      consolidated financial statements and notes of the Company and its
      subsidiaries and the report thereon of KPMG LLP in the 2010 Annual
      Report. 

2. 

Financial
      Statement Schedules 

All
      schedules are omitted because they are not required, not applicable or the
      information is given in the financial statements or notes thereto
      contained in the 2010 Annual Report. 

3. 

Exhibits
      (Listed by numbers corresponding to the Exhibit Table of Item 601 in
      Regulation S-K). 

3(a) 

Restated
      Articles of Incorporation of Emerson Electric Co., incorporated by
      reference to Emerson Electric Co. Form 10-Q for the quarter ended March
      31, 2001, File No. 1-278, Exhibit 3(a); Termination of Designated Shares
      of Stock and Certificate of Designation, Preferences and Rights of Series
      B Junior Participating Preferred Stock, incorporated by reference to
      Emerson Electric Co. 1998 Form 10-K, File No. 1-278, Exhibit
      3(a). 

3(b) 

Bylaws
      of Emerson Electric Co., as amended through November 2, 2010, incorporated
      by reference to Emerson Electric Co. Form 8-K dated November 5, 2010,
      Exhibit 3.1. 

4(a) 

Indenture
      dated as of April 17, 1991, between Emerson Electric Co. and The Boatmen's
      National Bank of St. Louis, Trustee, incorporated by reference to Emerson
      Electric Co. Registration Statement on Form S-3, File No. 33-62545,
      Exhibit 4.1. 

4(b) 

Indenture
      dated as of December 10, 1998, between Emerson Electric Co. and The Bank
      of New York, Trustee, incorporated by reference to Emerson Electric Co.
      1998 Form 10-K, File No. 1-278, Exhibit 4(b). 

No
      other long-term debt instruments are filed since the total amount of
      securities authorized under any such instrument does not exceed 10 percent
      of the total assets of Emerson Electric Co. and its subsidiaries on a
      consolidated basis. Emerson Electric Co. agrees to furnish a copy of such
      instruments to the SEC upon request. 

10(a)* 

1991
      Stock Option Plan, as amended, incorporated by reference to Emerson
      Electric Co. 1997 Form 10-K, File No. 1-278, Exhibit 10(e) and Amendment
      No. 1 thereto, incorporated by reference to Emerson Electric Co. 2000 Form
      10-K, File No. 1-278, Exhibit
10(c). 

20 

10(b)* 

Third
      Amendment to the Emerson Electric Co. 1993 Incentive Shares Plan, as
      restated, incorporated by reference to Emerson Electric Co. 1996 Form
      10-K, File No. 1-278, Exhibit 10(g), and Fourth Amendment thereto,
      incorporated by reference to Emerson Electric Co. 2001 Form 10-K, File No.
      1-278, Exhibit 10(d). 

10(c)* 

Amended
      and Restated Emerson Electric Co. Continuing Compensation Plan for
      Non-Management Directors, incorporated by reference to Emerson Electric
      Co. 2007 Form 10-K, File No. 1-278, Exhibit 10(c). 

10(d)* 

Amended
      and Restated Deferred Compensation Plan for Non-Employee Directors and
      Forms of Payment Election Form, Initial Notice of Election and Notice of
      Election Change, incorporated by reference to Emerson Electric Co. 2007
      Form 10-K, File No. 1-278, Exhibit 10(d). 

10(e)* 

First
      Amendment to the Emerson Electric Co. Supplemental Executive Retirement
      Plan, incorporated by reference to Emerson Electric Co. 1999 Form 10-K,
      File No. 1-278, Exhibit 10(h), and Form of Change of Control Election,
      incorporated by reference to Emerson Electric Co. Form 8-K dated October
      1, 2004, Exhibit 10.9 (applicable only with respect to benefits vested as
      of December 31, 2004). 

10(f)* 

Amended
      and Restated Emerson Electric Co. Pension Restoration Plan and Forms of
      Participation Award Letter, Acceptance of Award and Benefit Election Forms
      (applicable only with respect to benefits after January 1, 2005),
      incorporated by reference to Emerson Electric Co. 2007 Form 10-K, File No.
      1-278, Exhibit 10(f). 

10(g)* 

Fifth
      Amendment to the Supplemental Executive Savings Investment Plan,
      incorporated by reference to Emerson Electric Co. Form 10-Q for the
      quarter ended March 31, 1999, File No. 1-278, Exhibit 10(j), and Form of
      Participation Agreement and Form of Annual Election, incorporated by
      reference to Emerson Electric Co. Form 8-K dated October 1, 2004, Exhibit
      10.8 (applicable only with respect to benefits vested as of December 31,
      2004). 

10(h)* 

Amended
      and Restated Emerson Electric Co. Savings Investment Restoration Plan and
      Forms of Participation Agreement, Annual Election Form and Payment
      Election Form (applicable only with respect to benefits after January 1,
      2005), incorporated by reference to Emerson Electric Co. 2007 Form 10-K,
      File No. 1-278, Exhibit 10(h), and First Amendment to Emerson Electric Co.
      Savings Investment Restoration Plan, incorporated by reference to Emerson
      Electric Co. Form 10-Q for the quarter ended March 31, 2008, File No.
      1-278, Exhibit 10.1. 

10(i)* 

Amended
      and Restated Emerson Electric Co. Annual Incentive Plan and Form of
      Acceptance of Award, incorporated by reference to Emerson Electric Co.
      2007 Form 10-K, File No. 1-278, Exhibit 10(i). 

10(j)* 

1997
      Incentive Shares Plan, incorporated by reference to Emerson Electric Co.
      1997 Proxy Statement dated December 6, 1996, File No. 1-278, Exhibit A,
      and First Amendment thereto, incorporated by reference to Emerson Electric
      Co. 2001 Form 10-K, File No. 1-278, Exhibit 10(j), Amendment for 409A
      Compliance, incorporated by reference to Emerson Electric Co. 2007 Form
      10-K, File No. 1-278, Exhibit 10(j), Form of Performance Share Award
      Certificate, Forms of Acceptance of Award and Change of Control Election,
      incorporated by reference to Emerson Electric Co. Form 8-K dated October
      1, 2004, Exhibit 10.5, and Form of Restricted Shares Award Agreement,
      incorporated by reference to Emerson Electric Co. Form 8-K dated October
      1, 2004, Exhibit 10.6. 

10(k)* 

1998
      Stock Option Plan, incorporated by reference to Emerson Electric Co. 1998
      Proxy Statement dated December 12, 1997, File No. 1-278, Appendix A, and
      Amendment No. 1 

21 

thereto,
      incorporated by reference to Emerson Electric Co. 2000 Form 10-K, File No.
      1-278, Exhibit 10(l), Form of Notice of Grant of Stock Options and Option
      Agreement and Form of Incentive Stock Option Agreement, incorporated by
      reference to Emerson Electric Co. Form 8-K dated October 1, 2004, Exhibit
      10.1, and Form of Notice of Grant of Stock Options and Option Agreement
      and Form of Nonqualified Stock Option Agreement, incorporated by reference
      to Emerson Electric Co. Form 8-K dated October 1, 2004, Exhibit
      10.2. 

10(l)* 

2001
      Stock Option Plan, incorporated by reference to Emerson Electric Co. 2002
      Proxy Statement dated December 12, 2001, File No. 1-278, Appendix A, Form
      of Notice of Grant of Stock Options and Option Agreement and Form of
      Incentive Stock Option Agreement, incorporated by reference to Emerson
      Electric Co. Form 8-K dated October 1, 2004, Exhibit 10.3, and Form of
      Notice of Grant of Stock Options and Option Agreement and Form of
      Nonqualified Stock Option Agreement, incorporated by reference to Emerson
      Electric Co. Form 8-K dated October 1, 2004, Exhibit
  10.4. 

10(m)* 

Emerson
      Electric Co. Description of Split Dollar Life Insurance Program
      Transition, incorporated by reference to Emerson Electric Co. Form 8-K
      dated August 31, 2005, Exhibit 10.1. 

10(n)* 

Amended
      and Restated Restricted Stock Plan for Non-Management Directors,
      incorporated by reference to Emerson Electric Co. Form 10-Q for the
      quarter ended December 31, 2009, File No. 1-278, Exhibit 10.1, Form of
      Restricted Stock Award Letter under the Emerson Electric Co. Restricted
      Stock Plan for Non-Management Directors, incorporated by reference to
      Emerson Electric Co. Form 8-K dated February 1, 2005, Exhibit 10.2, and
      Form of Restricted Stock Unit Award Letter under the Emerson Electric Co.
      Restricted Stock Plan for Non-Management Directors, incorporated by
      reference to Emerson Electric Co. Form 10-Q for the quarter ended December
      31, 2009, File No. 1-278, Exhibit 10.1. 

10(o)* 

Description
      of Non-Management Director Compensation, incorporated by reference to
      Emerson Electric Co. Form 10-Q for the quarter ended March 31, 2007, File
      No. 1-278, Exhibit 10.1, and Summary of Changes to Compensation
      Arrangements for Non-Management Directors, incorporated by reference to
      Emerson Electric Co. Form 10-Q for the quarter ended June 30, 2008, File
      No. 1-278, Exhibit 10.2. 

10(p)* 

Description
      of Named Executive Officer Compensation, incorporated by reference to
      Emerson Electric Co. Form 10-Q for the quarter ended December 31, 2004,
      Exhibit 10.1. 

10(q)* 

Emerson
      Electric Co. 2006 Incentive Shares Plan, incorporated by reference to
      Emerson Electric Co. 2006 Proxy Statement dated December 16, 2005,
      Appendix C, Amendment for 409A Compliance, incorporated by reference to
      Emerson Electric Co. 2007 Form 10-K, File No. 1-278, Exhibit 10(q), Forms
      of Performance Share Award Certificate, Acceptance of Award and Restricted
      Share Award Agreement, incorporated by reference to Emerson Electric Co.
      2007 Form 10-K, File No. 1-278, Exhibit 10(q), Forms of Performance Share
      Award Certificate, Acceptance of Award and 2010 Performance Shares Program
      Award Summary, incorporated by reference to Emerson Electric Co. Form 10-Q
      for the quarter ended December 31, 2009, File No. 1-278, Exhibit 10.2, and
      Amendment to Emerson Electric Co. 2006 Incentive Shares Plan, incorporated
      by reference to Emerson Electric Co. Form 10-Q for the quarter ended June
      30, 2008, File No. 1-278, Exhibit 10.1. 

10(r) 

Long-Term
      Credit Agreement dated as of April 28, 2006, incorporated by reference to
      Emerson Electric Co. Form 8-K dated May 2, 2006, Exhibit
    10.1. 

12 

Ratio
      of Earnings to Fixed
Charges. 

22 

13 

Portions
      of Emerson Electric Co. Annual Report to Stockholders for the year ended
      September 30, 2010, incorporated by reference herein. 

21 

Subsidiaries
      of Emerson Electric Co. 

23 

Consent
      of Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm. 

24 

Power
      of Attorney. 

31 

Certifications
      pursuant to Exchange Act Rule 13a-14(a). 

32 

Certifications
      pursuant to Exchange Act Rule 13a-14(b) and 18 U.S.C. Section
      1350. 

101 

Attached
      as Exhibit 101 to this report are the following documents formatted in
      XBRL (Extensible Business Reporting Language): (i) Consolidated Statements
      of Earnings for the years ended September 30, 2008, 2009 and 2010, (ii)
      Consolidated Balance Sheets at September 30, 2009 and 2010, (iii)
      Consolidated Statements of Equity for the years ended September 30, 2008,
      2009 and 2010, (iv) Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows for the years
      ended September 30, 2008, 2009 and 2010, and (v) Notes to Consolidated
      Financial Statements for the year ended September 30, 2010.  In
      accordance with Rule 406T of Regulation S-T, the XBRL related information
      in Exhibit 101 to this Annual Report on Form 10-K shall not be deemed to
      be  filed  for purposes of Section 18 of the Exchange Act, and shall not
      be deemed  filed  or part of any registration statement or prospectus for
      purposes of Section 11 or 12 under the Securities Act or the Exchange Act,
      or otherwise subject to liability under those sections, except as shall be
      expressly set forth by specific reference in such
  filing. 

*
      Management contract or compensatory
plan. 

23 

SIGNATURES 

Pursuant
to the requirements of Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of
1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by
the undersigned, thereunto duly authorized. 

EMERSON
      ELECTRIC CO. 

By 

/s/  

F. J. Dellaquila  

F.
      J. Dellaquila 

Senior
      Vice President and 

Chief
      Financial Officer 

Date:
November 23, 2010 

Pursuant
to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, this report has been
signed below on November 23, 2010, by the following persons on behalf of the
registrant and in the capacities indicated. 

Signature  

Title  

/s/  

D. N. Farr  

Chairman
      of the Board and Chief Executive Officer 

D.
      N. Farr 

/s/  

W. J. Galvin  

Vice
      Chairman and Director 

W.
      J. Galvin 

/s/  

F. J. Dellaquila  

Senior
      Vice President and Chief Financial Officer 

F.
      J. Dellaquila 

/s/  

R. J. Schlueter  

Vice
      President and Chief Accounting Officer 

R.
      J. Schlueter 

* 

Director 

C.
      A. H. Boersig 

* 

Director 

A.
      A. Busch III 

* 

Director 

C.
      Fernandez G. 

* 

Director 

A.
      F. Golden 

24 

* 

Director 

H.
      Green 

* 

Director 

R.
      B. Horton 

* 

Director 

W.
      R. Johnson 

* 

Director 

V.
      R. Loucks, Jr. 

* 

Director 

J.
      B. Menzer 

* 

Director 

C.
      A. Peters 

* 

Director 

J.
      W. Prueher 

* 

Director 

R.
      L. Ridgway 

* 

Director 

R.
      L. Stephenson 

*
      By 

/s/  

F. J. Dellaquila  

F.
      J. Dellaquila 

Attorney-in-Fact 

25 

INDEX TO
EXHIBITS  

Exhibits
are listed by numbers corresponding to the Exhibit Table of Item 601 in
Regulation S-K. 

Exhibit No.  

Exhibit  

12 

Ratio
      of Earnings to Fixed Charges 

13 

Portions
      of Emerson Electric Co. Annual Report to Stockholders for the year ended
      September 30, 2010, incorporated by reference herein 

21 

Subsidiaries
      of Emerson Electric Co. 

23 

Consent
      of Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm 

24 

Power
      of Attorney 

31 

Certifications
      pursuant to Exchange Act Rule 13a   14(a) 

32 

Certifications
      pursuant to Exchange Act Rule 13a   14(b) and 18 U.S.C. Section
      1350 

101 

Attached
      as Exhibit 101 to this report are the following documents formatted in
      XBRL (Extensible Business Reporting Language): (i) Consolidated Statements
      of Earnings for the years ended September 30, 2008, 2009 and 2010, (ii)
      Consolidated Balance Sheets at September 30, 2009 and 2010, (iii)
      Consolidated Statements of Equity for the years ended September 30, 2008,
      2009 and 2010, (iv) Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows for the years
      ended September 30, 2008, 2009 and 2010, and (v) Notes to Consolidated
      Financial Statements for the year ended September 30, 2010.  In
      accordance with Rule 406T of Regulation S-T, the XBRL related information
      in Exhibit 101 to this Annual Report on Form 10-K shall not be deemed to
      be  filed  for purposes of Section 18 of the Exchange Act, and shall not
      be deemed  filed  or part of any registration statement or prospectus for
      purposes of Section 11 or 12 under the Securities Act or the Exchange Act,
      or otherwise subject to liability under those sections, except as shall be
      expressly set forth by specific reference in such
  filing. 

See
Item 15(A) 3. for a list of exhibits incorporated by
reference. 

26 

<EX-12>
 2
 v203504_ex12.htm
 EX-12

Exhibit
12 

EMERSON
ELECTRIC CO. AND SUBSIDIARIES 

      COMPUTATION
OF RATIO OF EARNINGS TO FIXED CHARGES 

       (Dollars in
Millions)   

</EX-12>

<EX-13>
 3
 v203504_ex13.htm
 EX-13

Unassociated Document 

Exhibit
13 

FINANCIAL
REVIEW 

Report
of Management 

The
Company s management is responsible for the integrity and accuracy of the
financial statements. Management believes that the financial statements for the
three years ended September 30, 2010 have been prepared in conformity with U.S.
generally accepted accounting principles appropriate in the circumstances. In
preparing the financial statements, management makes informed judgments and
estimates where necessary to reflect the expected effects of events and
transactions that have not been completed. The Company s disclosure controls and
procedures ensure that material information required to be disclosed is
recorded, processed, summarized and communicated to management and reported
within the required time periods. 

In
meeting its responsibility for the reliability of the financial statements,
management relies on a system of internal accounting control. This system is
designed to provide reasonable assurance that assets are safeguarded and
transactions are executed in accordance with management s authorization and
recorded properly to permit the preparation of financial statements in
accordance with U.S. generally accepted accounting principles. The design of
this system recognizes that errors or irregularities may occur and that
estimates and judgments are required to assess the relative cost and expected
benefits of the controls. Management believes that the Company s internal
accounting controls provide reasonable assurance that errors or irregularities
that could be material to the financial statements are prevented or would be
detected within a timely period. 

The Audit
Committee of the Board of Directors, which is composed solely of independent
directors, is responsible for overseeing the Company s financial reporting
process. The Audit Committee meets with management and the Company s internal
auditors periodically to review the work of each and to monitor the discharge by
each of its responsibilities. The Audit Committee also meets periodically with
the independent auditors, who have free access to the Audit Committee and the
Board of Directors, to discuss the quality and acceptability of the Company s
financial reporting, internal controls, as well as non-audit- related
services. 

The
independent auditors are engaged to express an opinion on the Company s
consolidated financial statements and on the Company s internal control over
financial reporting. Their opinions are based on procedures that they believe to
be sufficient to provide reasonable assurance that the financial statements
contain no material errors and that the Company s internal controls are
effective. 

Management s
Report on Internal Control Over Financial Reporting 

The
Company s management is responsible for establishing and maintaining adequate
internal control over financial reporting for the Company. With the
participation of the Chief Executive Officer and the Chief Financial Officer,
management conducted an evaluation of the effectiveness of internal control over
financial reporting based on the framework and the criteria established in
   Internal Control   Integrated
Framework , issued by the Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of the
Treadway Commission. Based on this evaluation, management has concluded that
internal control over financial reporting was effective as of September 30,
2010. 

The
Company s auditor, KPMG LLP, an independent registered public accounting firm,
has issued an audit report on the effectiveness of the Company s internal
control over financial reporting. 

/s/David
      N. Farr 

/s/Frank
      J. Dellaquila 

David
      N. Farr 

Frank
      J. Dellaquila 

Chairman
      of the Board 

Senior
      Vice President 

and
      Chief Executive Officer 

and
      Chief Financial Officer 

18 

Results
of Operations 

      Years
ended September 30 | Dollars in millions, except per share amounts 

OVERVIEW 

Fiscal
2010 was a challenging year but improving economic conditions, strong operating
results in the second half of the year, and two key acquisitions leave the
Company well positioned going into 2011. Worldwide gross fixed investment
stabilized during the year and is slowly recovering. In served markets,
industrial production and manufacturing have increased while residential and
nonresidential construction remains weak. Overall, sales increased moderately
for the year due essentially to acquisitions and favorable foreign currency
translation, while earnings increased in all of the Company s business segments
for 2010. Net sales were $21.0 billion, an increase of 5 percent versus 2009,
and earnings and earnings per share from continuing operations common
stockholders were $2.0 billion and $2.60, respectively, both increases of 15
percent. Despite declining slightly for the year, underlying sales of all
segments and in all geographic regions grew in the fourth quarter, reflecting
the positive trend which began in the second half of the year. The slight annual
sales decrease was due to a decline   in Europe, Canada and
Middle East/Africa, partially offset by a strong increase in Asia, including a
13 percent increase   in China, and a slight
increase in the United States. The growth in segment earnings reflects
successful restructuring and cost containment efforts in both 2009 and 2010.
Despite completing two key acquisitions in 2010,   Emerson s
financial position remains strong. The Company generated operating cash flow of
$3.3 billion and free cash flow of $2.8 billion (operating cash flow less
capital expenditures of $0.5 billion). The Company completed significant
repositioning actions through the acquisition of Avocent Corporation and
Chloride Group PLC, strengthening our Network Power business. In addition, the
appliance motors and U.S. commercial and industrial motors businesses were
divested, with the results of operations for these businesses reclassified to
discontinued operations for all periods presented. 

NET
SALES 

Net sales
for 2010 were $21.0 billion, an increase of $937 million, or 5 percent from
2009. Sales growth was strong in Climate Technologies, aided by China stimulus
programs, while Network Power, Tools and Storage (formerly Appliance and Tools)
and Industrial Automation increased due to acquisitions and favorable foreign
currency translation. Process Management was down as end markets were strongly
impacted by the economic slowdown. Consolidated results reflect a 1 percent
($102 million) decline in underlying sales (which exclude acquisitions,
divestitures and foreign currency translation), a 4 percent ($738 million)
contribution from acquisitions and a 2 percent ($301 million) favorable impact
from foreign currency translation. Underlying sales include a 10 percent decline
in the first half of 2010, compared with strong growth of 9 percent in the
second half as capital goods markets began to recover. For the year, underlying
sales reflect a decline in volume as sales decreased 2 percent internationally,
including Europe (7 percent), Middle East/Africa (10 percent), Canada (9
percent) and Latin America (2 percent), partially offset by an increase in Asia
(7 percent). Underlying sales increased 1 percent in the United
States. 

2010 Annual Report

19 

Net sales
for 2009 were $20.1 billion, a decrease of approximately $3.6 billion, or 15
percent, from 2008. Sales declined across all segments as the Company s
businesses were impacted by the broad slowdown in consumer and capital goods
markets. Consolidated results reflect an approximate 13 percent ($2,864 million)
decrease in underlying sales, a 3 percent ($923 million) unfavorable impact from
foreign currency translation and a 1 percent ($138 million) contribution from
acquisitions. The underlying sales decrease for 2009 included a 17 percent
decrease in the United States and a 9 percent decrease internationally, composed
of Europe (16 percent), Latin America (6 percent), Middle East/Africa (6
percent), Asia (2 percent) and Canada (5 percent). The underlying sales decline
primarily reflects an approximate 14 percent decline from volume and an
approximate 1 percent impact from higher pricing. 

INTERNATIONAL SALES 

Emerson
is a global business for which international sales have grown over the years and
now represent 57 percent of the Company s total sales. The Company expects this
trend to continue due to faster economic growth in emerging markets in Asia,
Latin America and Middle East/Africa. 

International
destination sales, including U.S. exports, increased approximately 5 percent, to
$11.9 billion in 2010, reflecting increases in Climate Technologies, Network
Power and Industrial Automation as well as a benefit from acquisitions and the
weaker U.S. dollar. U.S. exports of $1,317 million were up 9 percent compared
with 2009. Underlying destination sales decreased 7 percent in Europe, 10
percent in Middle East/Africa and 2 percent in Latin America, partially offset
by a 7 percent increase in Asia that includes 13 percent growth in China.
International subsidiary sales, including shipments to the United States, were
$10.7 billion in 2010, up 4 percent from 2009. Excluding a 7 percent net
favorable impact from acquisitions and foreign currency translation,
international subsidiary sales decreased 3 percent compared with
2009. 

International
destination sales, including U.S. exports, decreased approximately 15 percent,
to $11.4 billion in 2009, reflecting declines in Industrial Automation, Network
Power, Climate Technologies and Process Management as these businesses were
impacted by lower volume and the stronger U.S. dollar. U.S. exports of $1,211
million were down 16 percent compared with 2008. Underlying destination sales
declined 16 percent in Europe; 2 percent overall in Asia, including 2 percent
growth in China; 6 percent in Latin America and 6 percent in Middle East/Africa.
International subsidiary sales, including shipments to the United States, were
$10.2 billion in 2009, down 14 percent from 2008. Excluding a 6 percent net
unfavorable impact from foreign   currency translation and
acquisitions, international subsidiary sales decreased 8 percent compared with
2008. 

ACQUISITIONS 

The
Company acquired Avocent Corporation, Chloride Group PLC, SSB Group GmbH and
several smaller businesses during 2010. Avocent is a leader in delivering
solutions that enhance companies  integrated data center management capabilities
and the acquisition strongly positioned the Company to benefit from the growing
importance of infrastructure management in data centers worldwide. Chloride
provides commercial and industrial uninterruptible power supply systems and
services, which significantly strengthens the Company s Network Power business
in Europe and together with Avocent and the Company s other existing offerings,
creates a global leader in providing integrated data center management
solutions. SSB designs and manufactures electrical pitch systems and control
technology used in wind turbine generators for the growing alternative energy
market. Total cash paid, net of cash acquired of $150 million, for all
businesses in 2010 was approximately $2,843 million. Additionally, the Company
assumed debt of $169 million. Annualized sales for businesses acquired in 2010
were approximately $1,100 million. See Note 3 for additional
information. 

20 

During
2009, the Company acquired Roxar ASA, Trident Powercraft Private Limited, System
Plast S.p.A. and several smaller businesses. Roxar supplies measurement
solutions and software for reservoir production optimization, enhanced oil and
gas recovery and flow assurance. Trident Power manufactures and supplies power
generating alternators and associated products. System Plast manufactures
engineered modular belts and custom conveyer components for food processing and
packaging industries. Total cash paid for these businesses was approximately
$776 million, net of cash acquired of $31 million. Additionally, the Company
assumed debt of $230 million. Annualized sales for businesses acquired in 2009
were approximately $530 million. 

COST
OF SALES 

Costs of
sales for 2010 and 2009 were $12.7 billion and $12.5 billion, respectively.
Gross profit of $8.3 billion and $7.6 billion, respectively, resulted in gross
margins of 39.6 percent and 37.6 percent. The increase in gross profit primarily
reflects acquisitions, savings from rationalization and other cost reduction
actions and favorable foreign currency translation, partially offset by a
decline in volume. The gross margin increase primarily reflects savings from
cost reduction actions, materials cost containment and acquisitions, partially
offset by lower prices. Additionally, the Company s provision for inventory
obsolescence decreased $29 million in 2010 due to improving economic conditions
and a lower average inventory balance. 

Costs of
sales for 2009 and 2008 were $12.5 billion and $14.8 billion, respectively.
Gross profit of $7.6 billion and $8.9 billion, respectively, resulted in gross
margins of 37.6 percent in both years. The decrease in gross profit primarily
reflects lower sales volume and unfavorable foreign currency translation. The
level gross margin compared with 2008 reflected benefits realized from
rationalization actions and other productivity improvements, materials cost
containment and selective price increases, which were offset by deleverage on
lower sales volume, inventory liquidation and unfavorable product mix. In
addition, due to the economic slowdown the Company s provision for inventory
obsolescence increased approximately $40 million in 2009. 

SELLING, GENERAL AND ADMINISTRATIVE EXPENSES 

Selling,
general and administrative (SG A) expenses for 2010 were $4.8 billion, or
22.9 percent of net sales, compared with $4.4 billion, or 22.0 percent of net
sales for 2009. The $401 million increase in SG A was primarily due to
acquisitions and higher incentive stock compensation expense of $163 million
related to an increase in the Company s stock price and the overlap of two
incentive stock compensation plans in the current year (see Note 14), partially
offset by cost reduction savings. The increase in SG A as a percent of sales
was primarily the result of higher incentive stock compensation expense,
partially offset by savings from cost reduction actions. 

SG A
expenses for 2009 were $4.4 billion, or 22.0 percent of net sales, compared with
$4.9 billion, or 20.7 percent of net sales for 2008. The $499 million decrease
in SG A was primarily due to lower sales volume, benefits from
rationalization, favorable foreign currency translation and a $28 million
decrease in incentive stock compensation expense. The increase in SG A as a
percent of sales was primarily the result of deleverage on lower sales volume,
partially offset by cost reduction actions and the lower incentive stock
compensation expense. 

OTHER DEDUCTIONS, NET 

Other
deductions, net were $369 million in 2010, a $105 million decrease from 2009
that primarily reflects decreased rationalization expense of $158 million and
lower foreign currency transaction losses compared to the prior year, partially
offset by higher amortization expense of $68 million and lower nonrecurring
gains. See Notes 4 and 5 for further details regarding other deductions, net and
rationalization costs, respectively. 

Other
deductions, net were $474 million in 2009, a $284 million increase from 2008
that primarily reflects $195 million of incremental rationalization expense. The
Company continuously makes investments in its operations to improve efficiency
and remain competitive on a global basis, and in 2009 incurred costs of $284
million for actions to rationalize its businesses to the level appropriate for
current economic conditions and improve its cost structure in preparation for
the ultimate economic recovery. The 2009 increase in other deductions also
includes higher intangible asset amortization of $28 million due to acquisitions
and lower nonrecurring gains of $25 million. Gains in 2009 included the sale of
an asset for which the Company received $41 million and recognized a gain of $25
million ($17 million after-tax). 

INTEREST EXPENSE, NET 

Interest
expense, net was $261 million, $220 million and $188 million in 2010, 2009 and
2008, respectively. The increase of $41 million in 2010 was primarily due to
higher average long-term borrowings reflecting acquisitions. The $32 million
increase in 2009 was due to lower interest income, driven by lower worldwide
interest rates, and higher average long-term borrowings reflecting a change in
debt mix. 

2010 Annual Report

21 

INCOME TAXES 

Income
taxes were $848 million, $688 million and $1,125 million for 2010, 2009 and
2008, respectively, resulting in effective tax rates of 29 percent, 28 percent
and 31 percent. The 2010 effective tax rate primarily reflects a $30 million
capital loss benefit generated by restructuring at foreign subsidiaries and a
change in the mix of regional pretax income which increased in the United States
and Europe as compared with 2009. The lower effective tax rate in 2009 compared
with 2008 primarily reflects the benefit from a $44 million net operating loss
carryforward at a foreign subsidiary, a credit related to the repatriation of
certain non-U.S. earnings and a change in the mix of regional pretax income as
operating results declined significantly in the United States and Europe while
declining only slightly in Asia. 

EARNINGS
FROM CONTINUING OPERATIONS 

Earnings
and earnings per share from continuing operations common stockholders were $2.0
billion and $2.60, respectively, for 2010, both increases of 15 percent,
compared with $1.7 billion and $2.26 for 2009. Earnings increased in all
segments, reflecting decreased rationalization expense, savings from cost
reduction actions and favorable foreign currency translation. Earnings
improved   $280
million in Climate Technologies, $221 million in Network Power, $121 million in
Industrial Automation, $81 million in Tools and Storage and $33 million in
Process   Management.
Earnings per share were negatively impacted   $0.10 per share by the
Avocent and Chloride acquisitions, including acquisition accounting charges,
deal costs and interest expense. See the Business Segments discussion that
follows and Note 3 for additional information. 

Earnings
and earnings per share from continuing operations common stockholders were $1.7
billion and $2.26, respectively, for 2009, decreases of 30 percent and 27
percent, respectively, compared with $2.4 billion and $3.10 for 2008. The
decline is due to decreases in all of the Company s business segments and
reflects lower sales volume worldwide, increased rationalization expense and
unfavorable product mix, partially offset by savings from cost reduction actions
and materials cost containment. Earnings declined $395 million in Industrial
Automation, $241 million in Process Management, $228 million in Network Power,
$158 million in Climate Technologies and $145 million in Tools and
Storage. 

DISCONTINUED OPERATIONS 

In
connection with the acquisition of Avocent in the first quarter of 2010, the
Company announced the LANDesk business unit of Avocent was not a strategic fit
and would be sold. The sale of LANDesk was completed in the fourth quarter and
proceeds of approximately $230 million were received, resulting in an after-tax
gain of $12 million ($10 million of income taxes). Including LANDesk operating
losses of $19 million, the total per share impact was negative $0.01. LANDesk
was classified as discontinued operations throughout the year. 

Also in
the fourth quarter of 2010, the Company sold its appliance motors and U.S.
commercial and industrial motors businesses (Motors) which have slower growth
profiles. Proceeds from the sale were $622 million, resulting   in an after-tax gain of
$155 million ($126 million of income taxes) or $0.20 per share. Motors had total
annual sales of $827 million, $813 million and $1,056 million and net earnings,
excluding the divestiture gain, of $38 million ($0.05 per share), $9 million and
$8 million, in 2010, 2009 and 2008, respectively. Results of operations for
Motors have been reclassified into discontinued operations for all periods
presented. 

Total
cash received from the sale of Motors and LANDesk, net of cash income taxes, was
approximately $800 million. Income from discontinued operations in 2010 reflects
the Motors and LANDesk divestitures and includes both operating results for the
year and the gains on disposition. The income from discontinued operations
reported for 2009 relates only to the operations of the Motors businesses. In
addition to operating results for Motors, the 2008 loss from discontinued
operations includes operating results for the European appliance motor and pump
and Brooks Instruments businesses, and the loss and gain on disposal of these
businesses, respectively. See Acquisitions and Divestitures discussion in Note 3
for additional information regarding discontinued operations. 

22 

NET EARNINGS, RETURN ON EQUITY AND RETURN ON TOTAL CAPITAL 

Net
earnings common stockholders were $2.2 billion and net earnings per share common
stockholders were $2.84 for 2010, increases of 26 percent and 25 percent
compared with 2009, respectively, due to the same factors discussed previously,
including the gain on the sale of the Motors businesses. Net earnings common
stockholders as a percent of net sales were 10.3 percent and 8.6 percent in 2010
and 2009. Return on common stockholders  equity (net earnings common
stockholders divided by average common stockholders  equity) was 23.6 percent in
2010 compared with 19.5 percent in 2009. Return on total capital was 18.9
percent in 2010 compared with 16.2 percent in 2009, and is computed as net
earnings common stockholders excluding after-tax net interest expense, divided
by average common stockholders  equity plus short- and long-term debt less cash
and short-term investments. 

Net
earnings common stockholders were $1.7 billion and net earnings per share common
stockholders were $2.27 for 2009, decreases of 29 percent and 26 percent,
respectively, compared with $2.4 billion and $3.06, respectively, in 2008. Net
earnings common stockholders as a percent of net sales were 8.6 percent and 10.2
percent in 2009 and 2008. Return on common stockholders  equity was 19.5 percent
in 2009 compared with 27.0 percent in 2008. Return on total capital was 16.2
percent in 2009 compared with 21.8 percent in 2008. Net earnings common
stockholders in all years included the aforementioned results from discontinued
operations. 

Business
Segments 

Following
is a summary of segment results for 2010 compared with 2009, and 2009 compared
with 2008. The Company defines segment earnings as earnings before interest and
income taxes. Prior year segment results reflect the presentation of
noncontrolling interests 
 in conjunction with the adoption of ASC 810, the reclassification of the
Motors businesses to discontinued operations and movement of the retained
hermetic motors business from Tools and Storage (formerly Appliance and Tools)
to Industrial Automation.   

      PROCESS
MANAGEMENT 

2010 vs. 2009 -  Process
Management sales were $6.0 billion in 2010, a decrease of $113 million, or 2
percent, from 2009. The segment sales decrease reflects a 7 percent decline in
underlying sales on lower volume, a 3 percent ($178 million) favorable impact
primarily from the Roxar acquisition and a 2 percent ($121 million) favorable
impact from foreign currency translation. The valves business reported lower
sales primarily as a result of weakness in the chemical, refining and marine
markets. Sales for the systems and solutions and measurement and flow businesses
were down slightly, while sales for the regulators business was up slightly.
Regionally, underlying sales declined in all geographic areas, including 1
percent in the United States, 9 percent each in Asia, Europe and Middle
East/Africa, 11 percent in Canada and 10 percent in Latin America. Earnings
increased 3 percent, to $1,093 million from $1,060 million in the prior year,
and margin increased, reflecting savings from significant cost reduction
actions, materials cost containment, lower restructuring costs of $20 million
and a $17 million favorable impact from foreign currency transactions, partially
offset by deleverage on lower sales volume and higher wage costs. Sales and
earnings improved throughout the year, with second half results much stronger
versus prior year as capital intensive end markets served by this segment are
recovering. 

2010 Annual Report

23 

2009 vs. 2008 -  Process
Management sales were $6.1 billion in 2009, a decrease of $413 million, or 6
percent, from 2008. Nearly all of the Process businesses reported lower sales
and earnings, particularly the measurement and flow business resulting primarily
from weakness in the chemical, refining and marine markets. Sales were down
slightly for the valves business while the power and water business had a small
sales increase. The sales decrease reflected a 2 percent decline in underlying
sales on lower volume, a 6 percent ($373 million) unfavorable impact from
foreign currency translation and a 2 percent ($94 million) favorable impact
primarily from the Roxar acquisition. Regionally, underlying sales declined 6
percent in the United States while international sales were flat, as growth in
Asia (7 percent) offset decreases in Europe (4 percent), Middle East/Africa (3
percent), Canada (6 percent) and Latin America (2 percent). Earnings decreased
18 percent to $1,060 million from $1,301 million in the prior year, reflecting
lower sales volume, negative product mix, higher rationalization costs of $43
million and a $12 million negative impact from foreign currency transactions,
partially offset by savings from cost reduction actions. The margin decrease
primarily reflects unfavorable product mix (approximately 2 points) and
deleverage on lower volume, which were partially offset by productivity
improvements. Price increases and materials cost containment were substantially
offset by higher wage costs. 

INDUSTRIAL AUTOMATION 

2010 vs. 2009 -  Industrial
Automation sales increased 3 percent to $4.3 billion in 2010, compared with
2009. Sales results reflect a decline in the power generating alternators and
motors business due to weakness in capital spending, while sales increased in
all other businesses, especially the electrical drives and hermetic motors
businesses, which had strong sales increases, and the fluid automation business,
which reported solid sales growth. Underlying sales declined 1 percent on lower
prices, the System Plast, Trident Power and SSB acquisitions contributed 3
percent ($101 million) and favorable foreign currency translation added 1
percent ($54 million). Underlying sales decreased 4 percent in Europe and 2
percent in the United States, partially offset by increases in Asia (9 percent)
and Latin America (17 percent). Earnings increased 26 percent to $591 million
for 2010, compared with $470 million in 2009, and margin increased over 2
percentage points as savings from cost reduction efforts were partially offset
by unfavorable product mix. Price decreases were offset by lower materials
costs. Sales and earnings improved throughout the year, with second half results
much stronger versus prior year as capital intensive end markets served by this
segment   are   recovering. 

2009 vs. 2008 -  Industrial
Automation sales decreased 23 percent to $4.2 billion in 2009, compared with
$5.4 billion in 2008. Sales results reflect steep declines for all businesses
due to the slowdown in the capital goods markets. Underlying sales declined 21
percent, unfavorable foreign currency translation subtracted 4 percent ($236
million) and the System Plast and Trident Power acquisitions contributed 2
percent ($97 million). Underlying sales decreased 23 percent in the United
States and 19 percent internationally, including decreases in Europe (22
percent) and Asia (15 percent). Underlying sales reflect a 22 percent decline in
volume and an approximate 1 percent positive impact from higher selling prices.
Earnings decreased 46 percent to $470 million for 2009, compared with $865
million in 2008, primarily reflecting the lower sales volume. The margin
decrease of 4.8 percentage points reflects deleverage on the lower sales volume
(approximately 4 points) with significant inventory reduction (approximately 1
point) and higher rationalization costs of $27 million, partially offset by
savings from cost reduction actions and price increases. 

24 

NETWORK POWER 

2010 vs. 2009 -  Sales for
Network Power increased 7 percent to $5.8 billion in 2010 compared with $5.5
billion in 2009, primarily from the Avocent acquisition, a strong increase in
the embedded power business and a moderate increase in the network power
business in Asia, partially offset by decreases in the uninterruptible power
supply and precision cooling, energy systems, embedded computing and inbound
power systems businesses. Underlying sales declined 2 percent on lower prices,
acquisitions had a 7 percent ($370 million) favorable impact and foreign
currency translation had a 2 percent ($90 million) favorable impact.
Geographically, underlying sales were flat in the United States, while sales
decreased in Europe (13 percent), Latin America (5 percent), Canada (17 percent)
and Middle East/Africa (34 percent). Sales increased in Asia (6 percent), as the
Company continues to penetrate the Chinese market. Earnings increased 38 percent
to $800 million, compared with $579 million in 2009, and margin increased over 3
percentage points largely as a result of cost savings from aggressive
restructuring actions taken in 2009, particularly in the embedded computing and
energy systems businesses, as well as lower restructuring expense of $93 million
and a $17 million favorable impact from foreign currency transactions. Lower
selling prices were partially offset by materials cost containment. 

2009 vs. 2008 -  Network Power
sales decreased 15 percent to $5.5 billion in 2009 compared with $6.4 billion in
2008, reflecting declines in the inbound power, uninterruptible power supply,
precision cooling and embedded power businesses due to the slowdown in
customers  capital spending, partially offset by growth in the network power
business in Asia. Underlying sales declined 11 percent, foreign currency
translation had a 3 percent ($191 million) unfavorable impact and a decline in
sales for the Embedding Computing acquisition had a 1 percent ($101 million)
unfavorable impact. The underlying sales decrease reflected a 10 percent decline
in volume and a 1 percent impact from lower selling prices. Geographically,
underlying sales reflected decreases in the United States (19 percent), Europe
(22 percent) and Latin America (3 percent), which were partially offset by
increases in Asia (1 percent), Canada (9 percent), and   Middle
East/Africa (6 percent). Earnings decreased 28 percent to $579 million, compared
with $807 million in 2008, primarily due to lower sales volume and higher
rationalization costs of $90 million (particularly for the integration of
Embedded Computing), partially offset by solid earnings growth for the energy
systems business and network power business in Asia. The margin decrease
reflects deleverage on lower sales volume and a negative impact from
acquisitions, partially offset by savings from cost reduction actions which
contributed to margin improvement for both the energy systems business and
network power business in Asia. Materials cost containment was partially offset
by lower selling prices and increased wage costs. 

CLIMATE TECHNOLOGIES 

2010 vs. 2009 -  Climate
Technologies reported sales of $3.8 billion for 2010, a 19 percent increase from
2009, reflecting increases across all businesses, including compressors,
temperature sensors and heater controls. Sales growth was strong in Asia and
North America, aided by stimulus programs in support of mandated higher
efficiency standards in China, growth in U.S. air conditioning and refrigeration
markets and a change in refrigerant requirements in the U.S. Underlying sales
increased approximately 16 percent on higher volume, which included slight new
product penetration gains, acquisitions added 2 percent ($55 million) and
foreign currency translation had a 1 percent ($22 million) favorable impact. The
underlying sales increase reflects a 12 percent increase in the United States
and 22 percent internationally, including increases of 47 percent in Asia and 21
percent in Latin America, partially offset by a decline of 4 percent in Europe.
Earnings increased 68 percent to $691 million compared with $411 million in
2009, primarily due to higher sales volume, savings from cost reduction actions,
lower restructuring expense of $35 million and a $15 million commercial
litigation charge included in 2009 costs. The margin increase in excess of 5
percentage points reflects leverage on higher sales volume, savings from cost
reduction actions in prior periods and material cost containment, partially
offset by lower prices and unfavorable product mix. 

2010 Annual Report

25 

2009 vs. 2008 -  Climate
Technologies sales were $3.2 billion for 2009, a 16 percent decrease from 2008,
reflecting declines across all businesses, especially for compressors,
temperature sensors and heater controls. Underlying sales decreased
approximately 15 percent, foreign currency translation had a 2 percent ($92
million) unfavorable impact and acquisitions added 1 percent ($38 million). The
underlying sales decrease reflects an approximate 17 percent decline from lower
volume and an estimated 2 percent positive impact from higher selling prices.
Sales declines in the compressor business reflected the worldwide slowdown in
air conditioning and refrigeration markets, particularly in the United States
and Asia. The underlying sales decrease reflected a 15 percent decrease in both
the United States and internationally, including declines of 18 percent in Asia,
10 percent in Europe and 15 percent in Latin America. Earnings decreased 28
percent to $411 million compared with $569 million in 2008, primarily due to
lower sales volume, higher rationalization costs of $26 million, a $15 million
commercial litigation charge and a $12 million negative impact from foreign
currency transactions in 2009 versus prior year, partially offset by savings
from cost reduction actions. The margin decrease reflects deleverage on lower
sales volume (approximately 2 points), as well as higher material costs, which
were only partially offset by price increases. 

TOOLS AND STORAGE 

2010 vs. 2009 -  Sales for
Tools and Storage were $1.8 billion in 2010, a 2 percent increase from 2009.
Strong growth in the tools and disposer businesses was partially offset by
declines in the storage business, due to the continued weakness in the U.S.
residential construction markets. The sales increase reflects a 1 percent
decrease in underlying sales on lower volume, due to the Company outsourcing its
freight operations, with favorable impacts from acquisitions of 2 percent ($34
million) and foreign currency translation of 1 percent ($14 million). Underlying
sales in the United States decreased 1 percent while underlying international
sales increased 4 percent. Earnings for 2010 were $357 million, an increase of
29 percent compared to 2009, and margin increased over 4 percentage points,
reflecting earnings growth in the tools, appliances and storage businesses,
benefits of cost reduction and restructuring actions in 2009, product mix, lower
restructuring expense of $11 million and savings from material cost
containment. 

2009 vs. 2008 -  Sales for
Tools and Storage were $1.7 billion in 2009, a 23 percent decrease from 2008.
Declines in the storage, tools and appliance businesses were due to the
continued downturn in the U.S. residential and nonresidential markets, while a
decline in the appliance solutions business reflected major customers reducing
inventory and production levels due to the difficult economic conditions. The
sales decrease reflected a 22 percent decline in underlying sales and an
unfavorable impact from foreign currency translation of 1 percent ($30 million).
Underlying sales in the United States were down 23 percent while underlying
international sales decreased 19 percent. The underlying sales decrease reflects
an estimated 25 percent decline in volume and an approximate 3 percent positive
impact from pricing. Earnings for 2009 were $276 million, a 34 percent decrease
from 2008, reflecting deleverage on lower sales volume and higher
rationalization costs of $9 million, which were partially offset by savings from
cost reductions and higher selling prices. 

Financial
Position, Capital Resources and Liquidity 

The
Company continues to generate substantial cash from operations, is in a strong
financial position with total assets of $23 billion and common stockholders 
equity of $10 billion and has the resources available to reinvest in existing
businesses, pursue strategic acquisitions and manage its capital structure on a
short- and long-term basis. 

26 

CASH
FLOW 

Emerson
generated operating cash flow of $3.3 billion in 2010, a 7 percent increase from
2009 reflecting higher net earnings in 2010 and continued improvements in
working capital management. The operating cash flow of $3.1 billion in 2009 was
a 6 percent decrease from $3.3 billion in 2008, due to lower net earnings and
increased pension funding, partially offset by significant savings from
improvements in operating working capital management. At September 30, 2010,
operating working capital as a percent of sales was 6.7 percent, compared with
8.2 percent and 8.9 percent in 2009 and 2008, respectively. Pension
contributions were $247 million, $303 million and $135 million in 2010, 2009 and
2008, respectively. Operating cash flow fully funded capital expenditures,
dividends and share repurchases in all years presented and contributed funding
toward acquisitions. 

Capital
expenditures were $524 million, $531 million and $714 million in 2010, 2009 and
2008, respectively. Free cash flow (operating cash flow less capital
expenditures) was $2.8 billion in 2010, compared with $2.6 billion in 2009 and
2008, reflecting higher net earnings in 2010, and both lower earnings and
capital expenditures in 2009. The decline in capital spending in 2009 was
primarily due to the overall decline in worldwide business. In 2011, the Company
is targeting capital spending of approximately $600 million. Net cash paid in
connection with acquisitions was $2,843 million, $776 million and $561 million
in 2010, 2009 and 2008, respectively. Proceeds from divestitures in those years
were $846 million, $4 million and $201 million, respectively. 

Dividends
were $1,009 million ($1.34 per share) in 2010, compared with $998 million ($1.32
per share) in 2009 and $940 million ($1.20 per share) in 2008. In November 2010,
the Board of Directors voted to increase the quarterly cash dividend 3 percent
to an annualized rate of $1.38 per share. In 2008, the Board of Directors
approved a program for the repurchase of up to 80 million common shares. Under
the 2008 authorization, 2.1 million shares and 21.0 million shares were
repurchased in 2010 and 2009, respectively; and in 2008, 22.4 million shares
were repurchased under the 2002 and 2008 authorizations; 49.3 million shares
remain available for repurchase under the 2008 authorization and zero remain
available under the 2002 authorization. Purchases of Emerson common stock
totaled $100 million, $695 million and $1,128 million in 2010, 2009 and 2008,
respectively, at an average price paid per share of $48.15, $33.09 and $50.31,
respectively. 

LEVERAGE/CAPITALIZATION 

2010 Annual
Report 

27 

Total
debt, which includes long-term debt, current maturities of long-term debt,
commercial paper and other short-term borrowings, was $5.1 billion, $4.6 billion
and $4.5 billion for 2010, 2009 and 2008, respectively. Total short-term
borrowings increased $398 million in 2010, primarily reflecting incremental
commercial paper borrowings associated with the mix of funding for the Avocent
and Chloride acquisitions, which also included issuance of long-term debt,
proceeds from divestitures and the availability of operating cash flow. See Note
3 for additional information. In the first quarter of 2010, the Company issued
$300 million each of 4.25% notes due November 2020 and 5.25% notes due November
2039 and in the fourth quarter repaid $500 million of 7.125% notes that matured
in August. During 2009, the Company issued $250 million each of 4.125% notes due
April 2015, 5.0% notes due April 2019 and 6.125% notes due April 2039 and $500
million of 4.875% notes due October 2019, and repaid $175 million of 5.0% notes
and $250 million of 5.85% notes that matured in October 2008 and March 2009,
respectively. In 2008, the Company issued $400 million of 5.25% notes due
October 2018 and repaid $250 million of 5.5% notes that matured in September
2008. 

The total
debt-to-capital ratio was 34.1 percent at year-end 2010, compared with 34.8
percent for 2009 and 33.1 percent for 2008. At September 30, 2010, net debt
(total debt less cash and short-term investments) was 26.2 percent of net
capital, compared with 25.7 percent in 2009 and 22.7 percent in 2008. The
operating cash flow-to-debt ratio was 65.0 percent, 67.5 percent and 72.9
percent in 2010, 2009 and 2008, respectively. The Company s interest coverage
ratio (earnings before income taxes plus interest expense, divided by interest
expense) was 11.3 times in 2010, compared with 11.0 times and 15.9 times in 2009
and 2008. The increase in the interest coverage ratio from 2009 to 2010 reflects
higher earnings while the decrease from 2008 to 2009 was primarily due to lower
earnings. See Notes 8 and 9 for additional information. 

During
2010 the Company maintained, but had not drawn upon, a $2.8 billion, five-year,
revolving backup credit facility to support short-term borrowings that expires
in April 2011. The credit facility contains no financial covenants and is not
subject to termination based on a change in credit ratings or a material adverse
change. There were no borrowings under this facility in the last three years.
The Company has initiated renewal of the backup credit facility and anticipates
completion in the next three months. The Company also has a universal shelf
registration statement on file with the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission
(SEC) under which it can issue debt securities, preferred stock, common stock,
warrants, share purchase contracts and share purchase units without a
predetermined limit. Securities can be sold in one or more separate offerings
with the size, price and terms to be determined at the time of
sale. 

Emerson
maintains a conservative financial structure which provides the strength and
flexibility necessary to achieve its strategic objectives. Although credit
markets in the U.S. have stabilized, there remains a risk of volatility and
illiquidity that could affect the Company s ability to access those markets. The
Company has been able to readily meet all its funding requirements and currently
believes that sufficient funds will be available to meet the Company s needs in
the foreseeable future through ongoing operations, existing resources, short-
and long-term debt capacity or backup credit lines. 

CONTRACTUAL
OBLIGATIONS 

At
September 30, 2010, the Company s contractual obligations, including estimated
payments, are as follows: 

28 

Purchase
obligations consist primarily of inventory purchases made in the normal course
of business to meet operational requirements. The above table does not include
$2.5 billion of other noncurrent liabilities recorded in the balance sheet and
summarized in Note 17, which consist essentially of pension and postretirement
plan liabilities and deferred income taxes (including unrecognized tax
benefits), because it is not certain when these amounts will become due. See
Notes 10 and 11 for estimated benefit payments and Note 13 for additional
information on deferred income taxes. 

FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS 

The
Company is exposed to market risk related to changes in interest rates,
commodity prices and foreign currency exchange rates, and selectively uses
derivative financial instruments, including forwards, swaps and purchased
options, to manage these risks. The Company does not hold derivatives for
trading purposes. The value of market risk sensitive derivative and other
financial instruments is subject to change as a result of movements in market
rates and prices. Sensitivity analysis is one technique used to forecast the
impact of these movements. Based on a hypothetical 10 percent increase in
interest rates, a 10 percent decrease in commodity prices or a 10 percent
weakening in the U.S. dollar across all currencies, the potential losses in
future earnings, fair value and cash flows are immaterial. Sensitivity analysis
has limitations; for example, a weaker U.S. dollar would benefit future earnings
through favorable translation of non-U.S. operating results, and lower commodity
prices would benefit future earnings through lower cost of sales. See Notes 1
and 7 through 9. 

Critical
Accounting Policies 

Preparation
of the Company s financial statements requires management to make judgments,
assumptions and estimates regarding uncertainties that could affect reported
revenue, expenses, assets, liabilities and equity. Note 1 describes the
significant accounting policies used in preparation of the consolidated
financial statements. The most significant areas where management judgments and
estimates impact the primary financial statements are described below. Actual
results in these areas could differ materially from management s estimates under
different assumptions or conditions. 

REVENUE
RECOGNITION 

The
Company recognizes nearly all of its revenues through the sale of manufactured
products and records the sale when products are shipped or delivered and title
passes to the customer with collection reasonably assured. In certain
circumstances, revenue is recognized on the percentage-of-completion method,
when services are rendered, or in accordance with ASC 985-605 related to
software. Sales sometimes involve delivering multiple elements, including
services such as installation. In these instances, the revenue assigned to each
element is based on its objectively determined fair value, with revenue
recognized individually for delivered elements only if they have value to the
customer on a stand-alone basis, the performance of the undelivered items is
probable and substantially in the Company s control or the undelivered elements
are inconsequential or perfunctory, and there are no unsatisfied contingencies
related to payment. Management believes that all relevant criteria and
conditions are considered when recognizing revenue. 

INVENTORIES 

Inventories
are stated at the lower of cost or market. The majority of inventory values are
based on standard costs, which approximate average costs, while the remainder
are principally valued on a first-in, first-out basis. Cost standards are
revised at the beginning of each year. The annual effect of resetting standards
plus any operating variances incurred during each period are allocated between
inventories and cost of sales. The Company s divisions review inventory for
obsolescence, make appropriate provisions and dispose of obsolete inventory on a
regular basis. Various factors are considered in these reviews, including sales
history and recent trends, industry conditions and general economic
conditions. 

LONG-LIVED
ASSETS 

Long-lived
assets, which include property, plant and equipment, goodwill and identifiable
intangible assets are reviewed for impairment whenever events or changes in
business circumstances indicate impairment may exist. If the Company determines
that the carrying value of the long-lived asset may not be recoverable, a
permanent impairment charge is recorded for the amount by which the carrying
value of the long-lived asset exceeds its fair value. Reporting units are also
reviewed for possible goodwill impairment at least annually, in the fourth
quarter, by comparing the fair value of each unit to its carrying value. Fair
value is generally measured based on a discounted future cash flow method using
a discount rate judged by management to be commensurate with the applicable
risk. Estimates of future sales, operating results, cash flows and discount
rates are subject to changes in the economic environment, including such factors
as the general level of market interest rates, expected equity market returns
and volatility of markets served, particularly when recessionary economic
circumstances continue for an extended period of time. Management believes the
estimates of future cash flows and fair values are reasonable; however, changes
in estimates due to variance from assumptions could materially affect the
evaluations.  

2010
Annual Report 

29 

At the
end of 2010, Emerson s total market value based on its exchange-traded stock
price was approximately $40 billion and common stockholders  equity was $10
billion. There are two recently acquired units with $277 million of combined
goodwill for which the estimated fair value exceeds the carrying value by
approximately 10 percent. The fair value of these units assumes successful
execution of plans to expand and integrate these businesses, and recovery in the
demand for energy; in particular, recovery in the subsea extraction of oil and
gas in a Process Management unit and continued investment and growth in
alternative wind power energy in an Industrial Automation unit. There are two
units in the Network Power segment with $367 million of goodwill where estimated
fair value exceeds carrying value by approximately 15 percent. The operating
performance for each unit improved in 2010. Assumptions used in determining fair
value include continued successful execution of business plans and recovery of
served markets, primarily network communications and connectivity. There are two
units in the Tools and Storage segment with $250 million of goodwill, where
estimated fair value exceeds carrying value by more than 35 percent and assumes
execution of business plans and recovery in the residential and
construction-related markets which have been most severely impacted by the
financial crisis. 

In 2008,
the slowdown in consumer appliance and residential end markets over the prior
two years, along with strategic decisions regarding two businesses, resulted in
a $31 million impairment charge in the North American appliance control business
and a $92 million loss on the divestiture of the European appliance motor and
pump business. See Notes 1, 3 and 6. 

RETIREMENT PLANS 

While the
Company continues to focus on a prudent long-term investment strategy for its
pension-related assets, the calculations of defined benefit plan expense and
obligations are dependent on assumptions made regarding the expected annual
return on plan assets, the discount rate and rate of annual compensation
increases. In accordance with U.S. generally accepted accounting principles,
actual results that differ from the assumptions are accumulated and amortized in
future periods. Management believes that the assumptions used are appropriate;
however, differences versus actual experience or changes in assumptions may
affect the Company s retirement plan obligations and future expense. As of
September 30, 2010, combined U.S. and non-U.S. pension plans were underfunded by
$607 million, essentially flat compared to 2009. Funded status improved for U.S.
plans, which were under-funded by $260 million, while under-funding for non-U.S.
plans increased to $347 million. The discount rate for U.S. plans declined to
5.0 percent in 2010 from 5.5 percent in 2009. Deferred actuarial losses, which
will be amortized into earnings in future years, were $1,777 million as of
September 30, 2010. The Company contributed $247 million to defined benefit
plans in 2010 and expects to contribute approximately $150 million in 2011.
Defined benefit pension plan expense for 2011 is expected to be approximately
$145 million, up from $132 million in 2010. See Notes 10 and 11. 

INCOME TAXES 

Income
tax expense and deferred tax assets and liabilities reflect management s
assessment of future taxes expected to be paid on items reflected in the
financial statements. Uncertainty exists regarding tax positions taken in
previously filed tax returns still under examination and positions expected to
be taken in future returns. Deferred tax assets and liabilities arise because of
temporary differences between the consolidated financial statement carrying
amounts of existing assets and liabilities and their respective tax bases, and
operating loss and tax credit carryforwards. Deferred income taxes are measured
using enacted tax rates in effect for the year in which the temporary
differences are expected to be recovered or settled. The impact on deferred tax
assets and liabilities of a change in tax rates is recognized in the period that
includes the enactment date. Generally, no provision is made for U.S. income
taxes on the undistributed earnings of non-U.S. subsidiaries, as these earnings
are considered permanently invested or otherwise indefinitely retained for
continuing international operations. Determination of the amount of taxes that
might be paid on these undistributed earnings if eventually remitted is not
practicable. See Notes 1 and 13. 

NEW ACCOUNTING PRONOUNCEMENTS 

In
October 2009, the FASB issued updates to ASC 605,  Revenue Recognition , for
multiple deliverable arrangements and certain arrangements that include software
elements. These updates are effective October 1, 2010 for quarterly and annual
reporting. For multiple deliverable arrangements, the update requires the use of
an estimated selling price to determine the value of a deliverable when
vendor-specific objective evidence or third-party evidence is unavailable and
replaces the residual allocation method with the relative selling price method.
The software revenue update reduces the types of transactions which fall within
the current scope of software revenue recognition guidance. Adoption of these
updates is not expected to have a material impact on the Company s financial
statements. 

30 

CONSOLIDATED
STATEMENTS OF EARNINGS 

EMERSON ELECTRIC CO.   SUBSIDIARIES 

Years
ended September 30 | Dollars in millions, except per share amounts 

See
accompanying Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements. 

2010
Annual Report 

31 

CONSOLIDATED BALANCE  SHEETS    

EMERSON ELECTRIC CO.   SUBSIDIARIES 

      September
30 | Dollars in millions, except per share amounts  

See
accompanying Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements. 

32 

2010
Annual Report 

33 

CONSOLIDATED
STATEMENTS OF EQUITY 

EMERSON ELECTRIC CO.  
SUBSIDIARIES 

      Years
ended September 30 | Dollars in millions, except per share amounts 

See
accompanying Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements. 

34 

CONSOLIDATED
STATEMENTS OF CASH FLOWS 

EMERSON
ELECTRIC CO.   SUBSIDIARIES 

      Years
ended September 30 | Dollars in millions 

See
accompanying Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements. 

      2010
Annual Report 

35 

NOTES TO
CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 

EMERSON ELECTRIC CO.   SUBSIDIARIES 

      Years
ended September 30 | Dollars in millions, except per share amounts or where
noted 

(1)  Summary
of Significant Accounting Policies 

FINANCIAL STATEMENT PRESENTATION 

The
preparation of the financial statements in conformity with U.S. generally
accepted accounting principles (GAAP) requires management to make estimates and
assumptions that affect reported amounts and related disclosures. Actual results
could differ from these estimates. Certain prior year amounts have been
reclassified to conform to the current year presentation, including the adoption
of ASC 810 (see below) and certain operating results which have been
reclassified to discontinued operations. 

Emerson
adopted updates to ASC 810,  Consolidation , in the first
quarter of 2010. The updates require an entity to separately disclose
noncontrolling interests in subsidiaries as a separate line item in the income
statement and as a separate component of equity in the balance sheet. Adoption
did not have a material impact on the Company s financial statements. As
required, this change has been retrospectively applied to prior
periods. 

Effective
October 1, 2009, the Company adopted ASC 805,  Business Combinations , which
requires that assets acquired, liabilities assumed and contractual contingencies
be measured at fair value as of the acquisition date and all acquisition costs
be expensed as incurred. See Note 3 for a discussion of acquisition
activity. 

In the
first quarter of 2010, the Company adopted updates to ASC 260,  Earnings per Share , regarding
the two-class method of computing earnings per share (EPS). This method requires
earnings to be allocated to participating securities (for Emerson, certain
employee stock awards) in the EPS computation based on each security s
respective dividend rate. This change had an inconsequential impact on EPS for
all periods presented. 

PRINCIPLES
OF CONSOLIDATION 

The
consolidated financial statements include the accounts of the Company and its
controlled affiliates. Intercompany transactions, profits and balances are
eliminated in consolidation. Investments of 20 percent to 50 percent of the
voting shares of other entities are accounted for by the equity method.
Investments in publicly traded companies of less than 20 percent are carried at
fair value, with changes in fair value reflected in accumulated other
comprehensive income. Investments in nonpublicly traded companies of less than
20 percent are carried at cost. 

FOREIGN
CURRENCY TRANSLATION 

The
functional currency for most of the Company s non-U.S. subsidiaries is the local
currency. Adjustments resulting from   translating local
currency financial statements into U.S. dollars are reflected in accumulated
other comprehensive income. 

FAIR
VALUE MEASUREMENTS 

In 2009,
the Company adopted the recognition and disclosure provisions of ASC 820,  Fair Value Measurements and
Disclosures , which established a formal hierarchy and framework for
measuring fair value, and expanded disclosure about fair value measurements and
the reliability of valuation inputs. Under ASC 820, measurement assumes the
transaction to sell an asset or transfer a liability occurs in the principal or
at least the most advantageous market for that asset or liability. Within the
hierarchy, Level 1 instruments use observable market prices for the identical
item in active markets and have the most reliable valuations. Level 2
instruments are valued through broker/dealer quotation or through
market-observable inputs for similar items in active markets, including forward
and spot prices, interest rates and volatilities. Level 3 instruments are valued
using inputs not observable in an active market, such as company-developed
future cash flow estimates, and are considered the least reliable. Valuations
for all of Emerson s financial instruments fall within Level 2. The fair value
of the Company s long-term debt is estimated using current interest rates and
pricing from financial institutions and other market sources for debt with
similar maturities and characteristics. Due to the high credit quality of
Emerson and its counterparties, the impact of adopting ASC 820 was
inconsequential. In 2010, Emerson adopted the portions of ASC 820 related to
nonfinancial assets and liabilities, including goodwill and certain other
intangible and long-lived assets. Adoption did not have a material impact on the
Company s financial statements. 

If credit
ratings on the Company s debt fall below pre-established levels, derivatives
counterparties can require immediate full collateralization on instruments in
net liability positions. Similarly, Emerson can demand full collateralization
should any of the Company s counterparties  credit rating fall below certain
thresholds. Counterparties to derivative arrangements are companies with high
credit ratings. Risk from credit loss when derivatives are in asset positions is
considered immaterial. The Company has master netting arrangements in place with
its counterparties that allow the offsetting of certain derivative-related
amounts receivable and payable when settlement occurs in the same period.
Accordingly, counterparty balances are netted in the consolidated balance sheet.
As of September 30, 2010, the net values of commodity contracts are reported in
current assets while the net values of foreign currency contracts are reported
in current assets and accrued expenses. See Note 7. 

36 

CASH
EQUIVALENTS 

Cash
equivalents consist of highly liquid investments with original maturities of
three months or less. 

INVENTORIES 

Inventories
are stated at the lower of cost or market. The majority of inventory is valued
based on standard costs that approximate average costs, while the remainder is
principally valued on a first-in, first-out basis. Cost standards are revised at
the beginning of each fiscal year. The annual effect of resetting standards plus
any operating variances incurred during each period are allocated between
inventories and cost of sales. 

PROPERTY,
PLANT AND EQUIPMENT 

The
Company records investments in land, buildings, and machinery and equipment at
cost. Depreciation is computed principally using the straight-line method over
estimated service lives, which for principal assets are 30 to 40 years for
buildings and 8 to 12 years for machinery and equipment. Long-lived tangible
assets are reviewed for impairment whenever events or changes in business
circumstances indicate the carrying value of the assets may not be recoverable.
Impairment losses are recognized based on fair value if the sum of expected
future undiscounted cash flows of the related assets is less than their carrying
values. 

GOOD
WILL AND OTHER INTANGIBLE ASSETS 

Assets
and liabilities acquired in business combinations are accounted for using the
purchase method and recorded at their respective fair values. Substantially all
goodwill is assigned to the reporting unit that acquires a business. A reporting
unit is an operating segment as defined in ASC 280,  Segment Reporting , or a
business one level below an operating segment if discrete financial information
for that business unit is prepared and regularly reviewed by the segment
manager. The Company conducts impairment tests of goodwill on an annual basis in
the fourth quarter and between annual tests if events or circumstances indicate
the fair value of a reporting unit may be less than its carrying value. If a
reporting unit s carrying amount exceeds its estimated fair value, goodwill
impairment is recognized to the extent that recorded goodwill exceeds the
implied fair value of that goodwill. Fair values of reporting units are Level 3
measures and are developed under an income approach that discounts estimated
future cash flows using risk-adjusted interest rates. 

All of
the Company s identifiable intangible assets are subject to amortization.
Identifiable intangibles consist of intellectual property such as patents and
trademarks, customer relationships and capitalized software, and are amortized
on a straight-line basis over the estimated useful life. These intangibles are
also subject to evaluation for potential impairment if events or circumstances
indicate the carrying amount may not be recoverable. See Note 6. 

WARRANTY 

Warranties
vary by product line and are competitive for the markets in which the Company
operates. Warranties generally extend for a period of one to two years from the
date of sale or installation. Provisions for warranty are determined primarily
based on historical warranty cost as a percentage of sales or a fixed amount per
unit sold based on failure rates, adjusted for specific problems that may arise.
Product warranty expense is less than one percent of sales. 

REVENUE
RECOGNITION 

The
Company recognizes nearly all of its revenues through the sale of manufactured
products and records the sale when products are shipped or delivered and title
passes to the customer with collection reasonably assured. In certain
circumstances, revenue is recognized on the percentage-of-completion method,
when services are rendered, or in accordance with ASC 985-605 related to
software. Sales arrangements sometimes involve delivering multiple elements,
including services such as installation. In these instances, the revenue
assigned to each element is based on its objectively determined fair value, with
revenue recognized individually for delivered elements only if they have value
to the customer on a stand-alone basis, the performance of the undelivered items
is probable and substantially in the Company s control or the undelivered
elements are inconsequential or perfunctory, and there are no unsatisfied
contingencies related to payment. Management believes that all relevant criteria
and conditions are considered when recognizing revenue. 

DERIVATIVES
AND HEDGING 

In the
normal course of business, the Company is exposed to changes in interest rates,
foreign currency exchange rates and commodity prices due to its worldwide
presence and diverse business profile. Emerson s foreign currency exposures
primarily relate to transactions denominated in euros, Mexican pesos, Canadian
dollars and Chinese renminbi. Primary commodity exposures are price fluctuations
on forecasted purchases of copper, aluminum and related products. As part of the
Company s risk management strategy, derivative instruments are selectively used
in an effort to minimize the impact of these exposures. Foreign exchange
forwards and options are utilized to hedge foreign currency exposures impacting
sales or cost of sales transactions, firm commitments and the fair value of
assets and liabilities, while swap and option contracts are used to minimize the
effect of commodity price fluctuations on the cost of sales. 

2010
Annual Report 

37 

All
derivatives are associated with specific underlying exposures and the Company
does not hold derivatives for trading or speculative purposes. The duration of
hedge positions is generally two years or less and amounts currently hedged
beyond 18 months are not significant. 

All
derivatives are accounted for under ASC 815,  Derivatives and Hedging , and
are recognized on the balance sheet at fair value. For derivatives hedging
variability in future cash flows, the effective portion of any gain or loss is
deferred in stockholders  equity and recognized in earnings when the underlying
hedged transaction impacts earnings. The majority of the Company s derivatives
that are designated as hedges and qualify for deferral accounting are cash flow
hedges. For derivatives hedging the fair value of existing assets or
liabilities, both the gain or loss on the derivative and the offsetting loss or
gain on the hedged item are recognized in earnings each period. Currency
fluctuations on non-U.S. dollar obligations that have been designated as hedges
of non-U.S. dollar net asset exposures are reported in equity. To the extent
that any hedge is not fully effective at offsetting cash flow or fair value
changes in the underlying hedged item, there could be a net earnings impact. The
Company also uses derivatives to hedge economic exposures that do not receive
deferral accounting under ASC 815. The underlying exposures for these hedges
relate primarily to purchases of commodity-based components used in the
Company s manufacturing processes, and the revaluation of certain
foreign-currency-denominated assets and liabilities. Gains or losses from the
ineffective portion of any hedge, as well as any gains or losses on derivative
instruments not designated as hedges, are recognized in the income statement
immediately. See Note 7. 

INCOME
TAXES 

The
provision for income taxes is based on pretax income reported in the
consolidated statements of earnings and currently enacted tax rates for each
jurisdiction. Certain income and expense items are recognized in different time
periods for financial reporting and income tax filing purposes, and deferred
income taxes are provided for the effect of temporary differences. No provision
has been made for U.S. income taxes on approximately $5.2 billion of
undistributed earnings of non-U.S. subsidiaries as of September 30, 2010. These
earnings are considered permanently invested or otherwise indefinitely retained
for continuing international operations. Determination of the amount of taxes
that might be paid on these undistributed earnings if eventually remitted is not
practicable. See Note 13. 

COMPREHENSIVE
INCOME 

Comprehensive
income is primarily composed of net earnings plus changes in foreign currency
translation, pension and postretirement adjustments and the effective portion of
changes in the fair value of cash flow hedges. Accumulated other comprehensive
income, net of tax (a component of equity), consists of foreign currency
translation credits of $649 and $594, pension and postretirement charges of
$1,108 and $1,096 and cash flow hedges and other credits of $33 and $6,
respectively, at September 30, 2010 and 2009. Accumulated other comprehensive
income attributable to noncontrolling interests in subsidiaries consists
primarily of earnings and foreign currency translation. 

RETIREMENT
PLANS 

Effective
September 30, 2010, the Company adopted updates to ASC 715,  Compensation - Retirement
Benefits . These updates expand disclosure about an entity s investment
policies and strategies for assets held by defined benefit pension or
postretirement plans, including information regarding major classes of plan
assets, inputs and valuation techniques used to measure the fair value of
assets, and concentrations of risk within the plans. See Note 10. 

Effective
September 30, 2009, the Company adopted the measurement date provision of ASC
715,  Compensation   Retirement
Benefits , which requires employers to measure defined benefit plan assets
and obligations as of the Company s fiscal year end. The majority of the
Company s pension and postretirement plans previously used a June 30 measurement
date. The Company transitioned to the fiscal year-end measurement date in 2009
and recorded a $14 after-tax adjustment to September 30, 2009 retained
earnings. 

38 

(2)  Weighted
Average Common Shares 

Basic
earnings per common share consider only the weighted average of common shares
outstanding while diluted earnings per common share consider the dilutive
effects of stock options and incentive shares. Options to purchase approximately
3.9 million, 7.6 million and 3.6 million shares of common stock were excluded
from the computation of diluted earnings per share in 2010, 2009 and 2008,
respectively, as the effect would have been antidilutive. Earnings allocated to
participating securities were inconsequential for all years presented.
Reconciliations of weighted average shares for basic and diluted earnings per
common share follow: 

(3)  Acquisitions
and Divestitures 

The
Company acquired one-hundred percent of Avocent Corporation and SSB Group GmbH
during the first quarter of 2010 and Chloride Group PLC during the fourth
quarter of 2010. Avocent is a leader in enhancing companies  integrated data
center management capability, which strongly positions Emerson for the growth of
infrastructure management in data centers worldwide, and is included in the
Network Power segment. SSB is a designer and manufacturer of electrical pitch
systems and control technology used in wind turbine generators and is included
in the Industrial Automation segment. Chloride provides commercial and
industrial uninterruptible power supply systems and services, which
significantly strengthens the Company s Network Power business in Europe, and is
included in the Network Power segment. In addition to Avocent, SSB and Chloride,
the Company acquired other smaller businesses during 2010, mainly in the Process
Management and Industrial Automation segments. Total cash paid for all
businesses was approximately $2,843, net of cash acquired of $150. Additionally,
the Company assumed debt of $169. Annualized sales for businesses acquired in
2010 were approximately $1.1 billion. Identifiable intangible assets of $1,166,
primarily customer relationships and intellectual property with a
weighted-average life of approximately 10 years, were recognized along with
goodwill of $1,633, of which only a small amount is tax deductible. 

The
purchase price of Avocent and Chloride was allocated to assets and liabilities
as follows. Valuations of acquired assets and liabilities are in-process;
purchase price allocations for 2010 acquisitions are subject to
refinement. 

Results
of operations for 2010 include combined sales of $373 and a combined net loss of
$73 from Avocent and Chloride, including intangible asset amortization,
interest, first year acquisition accounting charges and deal costs. Pro forma
sales and net earnings common stockholders of the Company including full year
results of operations for Avocent and Chloride are approximately $21.6 billion
and $2.1 billion in 2010, and $21.0 billion and $1.6 billion in 2009,
respectively. These pro forma results include intangible asset amortization and
interest cost in both periods, and first year acquisition accounting charges and
deal costs in 2009. 

In the
fourth quarter 2010, the Company sold the LANDesk business unit, which was
acquired as part of Avocent and not a strategic fit with Emerson, for $230,
resulting in an after-tax gain of $12 ($10 of income taxes). Additionally,
LANDesk incurred operating losses of $19. This business was classified as
discontinued operations throughout 2010. Also in the fourth quarter of 2010, the
Company sold its appliance motors and U.S. commercial and industrial motors
businesses (Motors) which have slower growth profiles and were formerly reported
in the Tools and Storage segment. Proceeds from the sale were $622 resulting in
an after-tax gain of $155 ($126 of income taxes).     The
Motors disposition includes working capital of $98, property, plant and
equipment of $152, goodwill of $44, and other of $47.     The
Motors businesses had total annual sales of $827, $813 and $1,056 and net
earnings (excluding the divestiture gain) of $38, $9 and $8, in 2010, 2009 and
2008, respectively. Results of operations for Motors have been reclassified into
discontinued operations for all periods presented. 

2010
Annual Report 

39 

The
Company acquired one-hundred percent of Roxar ASA during the third quarter of
2009, Trident Powercraft Private Limited during the second quarter of 2009 and
System Plast S.p.A. during the first quarter of 2009. Roxar is a leading global
supplier of measurement solutions and software for reservoir production
optimization, enhanced oil and gas recovery and flow assurance and is included
in the Process Management segment. Trident Power is a manufacturer and supplier
of power generating alternators and other products and is included in the
Industrial Automation segment. System Plast is a manufacturer of engineered
modular belts and custom conveyer components for the food processing and
packaging industries and is included in the Industrial Automation segment. In
addition to Roxar, Trident Power and System Plast, the Company acquired other
smaller businesses during 2009, mainly in the Climate Technologies, Tools and
Storage and Process Management segments. Total cash paid for all businesses was
approximately $776, net of cash acquired of $31. Additionally, the Company
assumed debt of $230. Annualized sales for businesses acquired in 2009 were
approximately $530. Goodwill of $541 ($34 of which is expected to be deductible
for tax purposes) and identifiable intangible assets of $365, primarily customer
relationships and patents and technology with a weighted-average life of 12
years, were recognized from these transactions in 2009. 

The
Company acquired one-hundred percent of Motorola Inc. s Embedded Computing
business during the first quarter of 2008. Embedded Computing provides
communication platforms and enabling software used by manufacturers of equipment
for telecommunications, medical imaging, defense and aerospace, and industrial
automation markets and is included in the Network Power segment. In addition to
Embedded Computing, the Company acquired several smaller businesses during 2008,
mainly in the Process Management and Network Power segments. Total cash paid for
these businesses was approximately $561, net of cash acquired of $2. Annualized
sales for businesses acquired in 2008 were approximately $665. Goodwill of $273
($214 of which is expected to be deductible for tax purposes) and identifiable
intangible assets of $191, primarily technology and customer relationships with
a weighted-average life of eight years, were recognized from these
transactions. 

In the
first quarter 2008, the Company sold the Brooks Instrument flow meters and
controls unit, which was previously included in the Process Management segment,
for $100, resulting in an after-tax gain of $42 ($21 of income taxes). Brooks
had 2008 sales of $21 and net earnings of $1. Both the gain on divestiture and
operating results for Brooks are classified as discontinued operations. Also in
2008, the Company received approximately $101 from the divestiture of its
European appliance motor and pump business, resulting in a loss of $92,
including goodwill impairment of $83. This business had total sales of $453 and
net earnings of $7, excluding the divestiture loss. The divestiture loss and
results of operations are classified as discontinued operations. This business
was previously included in the Tools and Storage segment. 

The
results of operations of the businesses discussed above have been included in
the Company s consolidated results of operations since the respective dates of
acquisition. 

(4)  Other
Deductions, Net 

Other
deductions, net are summarized as follows: 

Other
deductions, net decreased for 2010, primarily due to lower rationalization
expense partially offset by higher amortization expense on acquired intangible
assets and lower one-time gains. Other is composed of several items that are
individually immaterial, including foreign currency gains and losses, bad debt
expense, equity investment income and losses, as well as one-time items such as
litigation and disputed matters and insurance recoveries. Other decreased in
2010 primarily because of $45 of lower losses on foreign exchange transactions
compared with 2009, while other increased in 2009 primarily because of $30 of
incremental losses on foreign currency exchange transactions compared with 2008.
Gains, net for 2009 included the sale of an asset for which the Company received
$41 and recognized a gain of $25 ($17 after-tax). In 2008, the Company received
$54 and recognized a gain of $39 ($20 after-tax) on the sale of an equity
investment in Industrial Motion Control Holdings, a manufacturer of motion
control components for automation equipment, and also recorded a pretax gain of
$18 related to the sale of a facility. 

40 

(5)  Rationalization
of Operations 

Rationalization
of operations expense reflects costs associated with the Company s efforts to
continuously improve operational efficiency and expand globally, in order to
remain competitive on a worldwide basis. Each year the Company incurs costs for
actions to size its businesses to a level appropriate for current economic
conditions and to improve its cost structure for future growth. Rationalization
expenses result from numerous individual actions implemented across the
Company s various operating divisions on an ongoing basis and include costs for
moving facilities to best-cost locations, starting up plants after relocation or
geographic expansion to serve local markets, exiting certain product lines,
curtailing/downsizing operations because of changing economic conditions and
other costs resulting from asset redeployment decisions. Shutdown costs include
severance, benefits, stay bonuses, lease and contract terminations and asset
write-downs. In addition to the costs of moving fixed assets, start-up and
moving costs include employee training and relocation. Vacant facility costs
include security, maintenance, utility and other costs. 

The
Company reported rationalization expenses of $126, $284 and $89, respectively
for 2010, 2009 and 2008, with the significantly higher expense in 2009 due to
actions taken in response to the severe economic environment worldwide. The
Company currently expects to incur approximately $100 million of rationalization
expense in 2011, including the costs to complete actions initiated before the
end of 2010 and actions anticipated to be approved and initiated during
2011. 

The
change in the liability for the rationalization of operations during the years
ended September 30 follows: 

Expense
includes $11 and $9 in 2009 and 2008, respectively, related to discontinued
operations. 

Rationalization
of operations expense by segment is summarized as follows: 

Costs
incurred during 2010 included actions to exit approximately 25 production,
distribution or office facilities and eliminate approximately 3,500 positions,
as well as costs related to facilities exited in previous periods. All the
Company s business segments incurred shutdown costs due to workforce reductions
and/or the consolidation of facilities. Start-up and moving costs, vacant
facilities and other costs were not material for any segment. Actions during
2010 included Process Management reducing worldwide forcecount and consolidating
some North American and European production; Industrial Automation consolidating
production and sales facilities within Europe and North America; Network Power
reducing worldwide forcecount, consolidating North American production and
shifting some production and engineering capabilities from North America and
Europe to Asia; and Climate Technologies consolidating or downsizing production
facilities in North America and Europe. 

2010
Annual Report 

41 

Costs
incurred during 2009 included actions to exit approximately 25 production,
distribution or office facilities and eliminate approximately 20,000 positions,
of which approximately one-half were from restructuring actions and the
remainder through layoffs and attrition, as well as costs related to facilities
exited in previous periods. All the Company s business segments incurred
shutdown costs due to workforce reductions and/or the consolidation of
facilities. Start-up and moving costs were primarily attributable to Network
Power and Industrial Automation, and Network Power incurred most of the asset
write-downs. Vacant facilities and other costs were immaterial for any segment.
Actions during 2009 included Process Management reducing worldwide headcount;
Industrial Automation consolidating production facilities and reducing North
American headcount; Network Power primarily incurring integration costs for the
Embedded Computing acquisition, but also consolidating power systems production
areas in North America and Europe and shifting some production and engineering
capabilities from Europe to Asia; Climate Technologies consolidating or
downsizing production facilities in North America, Europe and Asia; and Tools
and Storage reducing salaried workforce and consolidating and downsizing
production facilities in North America. 

During
2008, rationalization of operations expense primarily related to exiting
approximately 10 production, distribution or office facilities, and included the
elimination of approximately 2,300 positions as well as ongoing costs related to
facilities exited in previous periods. Actions in 2008 included Process
Management expanding capacity in China and consolidating European production
facilities; Industrial Automation consolidating power transmission and valve
facilities in North America; Network Power consolidating production in North
America and transferring other production in Asia; Climate Technologies shifting
certain production to Mexico and consolidating production facilities in Europe;
and Tools and Storage shifting production from Canada to the U.S. and closing
motor production facilities in Europe. 

(6)  Goodwill
and Other Intangibles 

Acquisitions
are accounted for under the purchase method, with substantially all goodwill
assigned to the reporting unit that acquires the business. Under an impairment
test performed annually, if the carrying amount of a reporting unit s goodwill
exceeds its estimated fair value, impairment is recognized to the extent that
the carrying amount exceeds the implied fair value of the goodwill. Fair values
of reporting units are estimated using discounted cash flows and market
multiples and are subject to change due to changes in underlying economic
conditions. The change in the carry amount of goodwill by business segment
follows. See Note 3 for further discussion of changes in goodwill related to
acquisitions, divestitures and impairment. 

The gross
carrying amount and accumulated amortization of identifiable intangible assets
by major class follow: 

Total
intangible asset amortization expense for 2010, 2009 and 2008 was $254, $184 and
$150, respectively. Based on intangible asset balances as of September 30, 2010,
amortization expense is expected to approximate $331 in 2011, $280 in 2012, $239
in 2013, $202 in 2014 and $177 in 2015. 

42 

(7)  Financial
Instruments 

HEDGING
ACTIVITIES 

The
notional value of foreign currency hedge positions totaled approximately $1.4
billion as of September 30, 2010. Commodity hedges outstanding at year end
included a total of approximately 73 million pounds of copper and aluminum. The
majority of hedging gains and losses deferred as of September 30, 2010 are
expected to be recognized over the next 12 months as the underlying forecasted
transactions occur. Presented below are amounts reclassified from accumulated
other comprehensive income into earnings, amounts recognized in other
comprehensive income and amounts recognized in earnings for derivatives not
receiving deferral accounting. All derivatives receiving deferral accounting are
cash flow hedges. 

Regardless
of whether or not derivatives receive deferral accounting, the Company expects
hedging gains or losses to be essentially offset by losses or gains on the
related underlying exposures. The amounts ultimately recognized will differ from
those presented above for open positions which remain subject to ongoing market
price fluctuations until settled. Derivatives receiving deferral accounting are
highly effective, no amounts were excluded from the assessment of hedge
effectiveness, and hedge ineffectiveness was immaterial in 2010, 2009 and 2008,
including gains or losses on derivatives that were discontinued because
forecasted transactions were no longer expected to occur. 

FAIR
VALUE MEASUREMENTS 

Fair
values of derivative contracts outstanding as of September 30
follow: 

The
Company neither posted nor held any collateral as of September 30, 2010. The
maximum collateral the Company could have been required to post as of September
30, 2010 was $10. As of September 30, 2010 and 2009, the fair value of long-term
debt was $5,292 and $4,915, respectively, which was in excess of the carrying
value by $635 and $351, respectively. 

2010
Annual Report 

43 

(8)  Short-Term
Borrowings and Lines of Credit 

Short-term
borrowings and current maturities of long-term debt are summarized as
follows: 

The
Company periodically issues commercial paper as a source of short-term
financing. To support short-term borrowing, the Company maintains, but has not
drawn on, a $2.8 billion, five-year, revolving credit facility that expires in
April 2011. The credit facility has no financial covenants and is not subject to
termination based on a change in credit ratings or a material adverse change.
There were no borrowings against U.S. lines of credit in the last three years.
The Company has initiated renewal of the backup credit facility and anticipates
completion in the next three months. 

(9)  Long-Term
Debt 

Long-term
debt is summarized as follows: 

Long-term
debt maturing during each of the four years after 2011 is $284, $560, $251 and
$501, respectively. Total interest paid related to short-term borrowings and
long-term debt was approximately $264, $230 and $235 in 2010, 2009 and 2008,
respectively. 

The
Company has a universal shelf registration statement on file with the SEC under
which it could issue debt securities, preferred stock, common stock, warrants,
share purchase contracts and share purchase units without a predetermined limit.
Securities can be sold in one or more separate offerings with the size, price
and terms to be determined at the time of sale. 

44 

(10)  Retirement
Plans 

Retirement
plans expense includes the following components: 

Reconciliations
of the actuarial present value of the projected benefit obligations and of the
fair value of plan assets for defined benefit pension plans follow: 

Approximately
$169 of the $1,777 of losses deferred in accumulated other comprehensive income
at September 30, 2010, will be amortized into earnings in 2011. Retirement plans
in total were underfunded by $607 as of September 30, 2010. 

As of the
plans  September 30, 2010 and 2009 measurement dates, the total accumulated
benefit obligation was $4,246 and $3,811, respectively. Also, as of the plans 
respective measurement dates, the projected benefit obligation, accumulated
benefit obligation and fair value of plan assets for retirement plans with
accumulated benefit obligations in excess of plan assets were $1,120, $1,043 and
$618, respectively, for 2010, and $3,575, $3,383 and $2,974, respectively, for
2009. 

2010
Annual Report 

45 

Future
benefit payments for U.S. plans are estimated to be $164 in 2011, $173 in 2012,
$184 in 2013, $194 in 2014, $203 in 2015 and $1,137 in total over the five years
2016 through 2020. Based on foreign currency exchange rates as of September 30,
2010, future benefit payments for non-U.S. plans are estimated to be $47 in
2011, $41 in 2012, $46 in 2013, $48 in 2014, $55 in 2015 and $295 in total over
the five years 2016 through 2020. In 2011, the Company expects to contribute
approximately $150 to its retirement plans. 

The
weighted-average assumptions used in the valuations of pension benefits were as
follows: 

The
discount rate for the U.S. retirement plans was 5.0 percent as of September 30,
2010. An actuarially determined, company-specific yield curve is used to
determine the discount rate. Defined benefit pension plan expense for 2011 is
expected to be approximately $145 versus $132 in 2010. The expected return on
plan assets assumption is determined by reviewing the investment returns of the
plans for the past 10 years and historical returns of an asset mix approximating
Emerson s asset allocation targets and periodically comparing these returns to
expectations of investment advisors and actuaries to determine whether long-term
future returns are expected to differ significantly from the past. 

The
Company s asset allocations at September 30, 2010 and 2009, and weighted-average
target allocations are as follows: 

The
primary objective for the investment of plan assets is to secure participant
retirement benefits while earning a reasonable rate of return. Plan assets are
invested consistent with the provisions of the prudence and diversification
rules of ERISA and with a long-term investment horizon. The Company continuously
monitors the value of assets by class and routinely rebalances to remain within
target allocations. The strategy for equity assets is to minimize concentrations
of risk by investing primarily in companies in a diversified mix of industries
worldwide, while targeting neutrality in exposure to market capitalization
levels, growth versus value profile, global versus regional markets, fund types
and fund managers. The approach for bonds emphasizes investment-grade corporate
and government debt with maturities matching a portion of the longer duration
pension liabilities. The bonds strategy also includes a high yield element which
is generally shorter in duration. A small portion of U.S. plan assets is
allocated to private equity partnerships and real asset fund investments for
diversification, providing opportunities for above market returns. Leveraging
techniques are not used and the use of derivatives in any fund is limited to
exchange-traded futures contracts and is inconsequential. 

46 

The fair
values of defined benefit plan assets as of September 30, 2010 organized by
asset class and by the fair value hierarchy of ASC 820 as outlined in Note 1
follow: 

ASSET
CLASSES 

U.S.
Equities reflects companies domiciled in the U.S., including multinational
companies. International Equities is comprised of companies domiciled in
developed nations outside the U.S. Emerging Market Equities is comprised of
companies domiciled in portions of Asia, Eastern Europe and Latin
America. 

Government
Bonds include investment-grade instruments issued by federal, state and local
governments, primarily in the U.S. Corporate Bonds represent investment-grade
debt of issuers primarily from the U.S. High Yield Bonds include
non-investment-grade debt from a diverse group of developed market
issuers. 

Other
includes cash, interests in mixed asset funds investing in commodities, natural
resources, agriculture and exchange-traded real estate funds, life insurance
contracts (U.S.) and shares in certain general investment funds of financial
institutions or insurance arrangements (non-U.S.) that typically ensure no
market losses or provide for a small minimum return guarantee. 

FAIR
VALUE HIERARCHY CATEGORIES 

Valuations
of Level 1 assets for all classes are based on quoted closing market prices from
the principal exchanges where the individual securities are traded. Cash is
valued at cost, which approximates fair value. 

Equity
securities categorized as Level 2 assets are primarily non-exchange-traded
commingled or collective funds where the underlying securities have observable
prices available from active markets. Valuation is based on the net asset value
of fund units held as derived from the fair value of the underlying
assets. 

Debt
securities categorized as Level 2 assets are generally valued based on
independent broker/dealer bids or by comparison to other debt securities having
similar durations, yields and credit ratings. Other Level 2 assets are valued
based on a net asset value of fund units held, which is derived from either
broker/dealer quotation or market-observed pricing for the underlying
assets. 

U.S.
equity securities classified as Level 3 are fund investments in private
companies. Valuation techniques and inputs for these assets include discounted
cash flow analysis, earnings multiple approaches, recent transactions,
transferability restrictions, prevailing discount rates, volatilities, credit
ratings and other factors. 

In the
Other class, interests in mixed assets funds are Level 2 and U.S. life insurance
contracts and non-U.S. general fund investments and insurance arrangements are
Level 3. 

A
reconciliation of the change in value for Level 3 assets follows: 

2010
Annual Report 

47 

(11)  Postretirement Plans 

The
Company sponsors unfunded postretirement benefit plans (primarily health care)
for U.S. retirees and their dependents. The components of net postretirement
benefits expense for the years ended September 30 follow: 

Reconciliations
of the actuarial present value of accumulated postretirement benefit obligations
follow: 

Approximately
$8 of $65 of credits deferred in accumulated other comprehensive income at
September 30, 2010 will be amortized into earnings in 2011. The assumed discount
rates used in measuring the benefit obligations as of September 30, 2010, 2009
and 2008, were 4.25 percent, 5.0 percent and 6.5 percent, respectively. The
assumed health care cost trend rate for 2011 is 8.0 percent, declining to 5.0
percent in the year 2017, and for 2010 was 8.5 percent, declining to 5.0 percent
in the year 2017. A one-percentage-point increase or decrease in the assumed
health care cost trend rate for each year would increase or decrease 2010
postretirement expense and the benefit obligation as of September 30, 2010 less
than 5 percent. The Company estimates that future health care benefit payments
will be $39 in 2011, $39 in 2012, $38 in 2013, $37 in 2014, $36 in 2015 and $160
in total over the five years 2016 through 2020. 

(12)  Contingent
Liabilities and Commitments 

Emerson
is a party to a number of pending legal proceedings and claims, including those
involving general and product liability and other matters, several of which
claim substantial amounts of damages. The Company accrues for such liabilities
when it is probable that future costs (including legal fees and expenses) will
be incurred and such costs can be reasonably estimated. Accruals are based on
developments to date; management s estimates of the outcomes of these matters;
the Company s experience in contesting, litigating and settling similar matters;
and any related insurance coverage. Although it is not possible to predict the
ultimate outcome of these matters, the Company historically has been successful
in defending itself against claims and suits that have been brought against it,
and will continue to defend itself vigorously in all such matters. While the
Company believes a material adverse impact is unlikely, given the inherent
uncertainty of litigation, a remote possibility exists that a future development
could have a material adverse impact on the Company. 

The
Company enters into certain indemnification agreements in the ordinary course of
business in which the indemnified party is held harmless and is reimbursed for
losses incurred from claims by third parties, usually up to a prespecified
limit. In connection with divestitures of certain assets or businesses, the
Company often provides indemnities to the buyer with respect to certain matters
including, as examples, environmental or unidentified tax liabilities related to
periods prior to the disposition. Because of the uncertain nature of the
indemnities, the maximum liability cannot be quantified. As such, liabilities
are recorded when they are both probable and reasonably estimable. Historically,
payments under indemnity arrangements have been inconsequential. 

At
September 30, 2010, there were no known contingent liabilities (including
guarantees, pending litigation, taxes and other claims) that management believes
will be material in relation to the Company s financial statements, nor were
there any material commitments outside the normal course of
business. 

48 

(13)  Income
Taxes 

Pretax
earnings from continuing operations consist of the following: 

The
principal components of income tax expense follow: 

Reconciliations
of the U.S. federal statutory tax rate to the Company s effective tax rate
follow: 

Non-U.S.
tax holidays reduce tax rates in certain foreign jurisdictions and are expected
to expire over the next five years. 

Following
are reconciliations of the beginning and ending balances of unrecognized tax
benefits before recoverability of cross-jurisdictional tax credits (federal,
state and non-U.S.) and temporary differences. The amount of unrecognized tax
benefits is not expected to significantly increase or decrease within the next
12 months. 

If none
of the unrecognized tax benefits shown is ultimately paid, the tax provision and
the calculation of the effective tax rate would be favorably impacted by $132.
Acquired positions of $27 in 2010 are included in additions for the current
year. The Company accrues interest and penalties related to income taxes in
income tax expense. Total interest and penalties recognized were $(1) and $6 in
2010 and 2009, respectively. As of September 30, 2010 and 2009, total accrued
interest and penalties were $37 and $33, respectively. 

2010
Annual Report 

49 

The
United States is the major jurisdiction for which the Company files income tax
returns. Examinations by the U.S. Internal Revenue Service are substantially
complete through fiscal 2007. The status of state and non-U.S. tax examinations
varies by the numerous legal entities and jurisdictions in which the Company
operates. 

The
principal items that gave rise to deferred income tax assets and liabilities
follow: 

At
September 30, 2010 and 2009, respectively, net current deferred tax assets were
$374 and $290, and net noncurrent deferred tax liabilities were $634 and $273.
Total income taxes paid were approximately $890, $780 and $1,110 in 2010, 2009
and 2008, respectively. The majority of the $281 net operating losses and tax
credits can be carried forward indefinitely, while the remainder expire over
varying periods. 

(14)  Stock-Based
Compensation 

The
Company s stock-based compensation plans include stock options, performance
shares, restricted stock and restricted stock units. Although the Company has
discretion, shares distributed under these plans are issued from treasury
stock. 

STOCK
OPTIONS 

The
Company s stock option plans permit key officers and employees to purchase
common stock at specified prices. Options are granted at 100 percent of the
average of the high and low prices of the Company s common stock on the date of
grant, generally vest one-third each year and expire 10 years from the date of
grant. Compensation expense is recognized ratably over the vesting period based
on the number of options expected to vest. At September 30, 2010, approximately
7.6 million options remained available for grant under these plans. 

Changes
in shares subject to option during the year ended September 30, 2010,
follow: 

The
weighted-average grant date fair value per option granted was $8.51, $4.45 and
$10.59 for 2010, 2009 and 2008, respectively. Cash received for option exercises
was $53 in 2010, $33 in 2009 and $73 in 2008. The total intrinsic value of
options exercised was $59, $10 and $75 in 2010, 2009 and 2008, respectively, and
the actual tax benefit realized from tax deductions related to option exercises
was $4, $7 and $19, respectively. 

50 

The grant
date fair value of each option is estimated using the Black-Scholes
option-pricing model. Weighted-average assumptions used in the Black-Scholes
valuations for 2010, 2009 and 2008 are as follows: risk-free interest rate based
on the U.S. Treasury yield of 3.0 percent, 2.4 percent and 4.1 percent; dividend
yield of 3.2 percent, 4.2 percent and 2.0 percent; and expected volatility based
on historical volatility of 25 percent, 22 percent and 17 percent. The expected
life of an option is seven years based on historical experience and expected
future exercise patterns. 

PERFORMANCE
SHARES, RESTRICTED STOCK AND RESTRICTED STOCK UNITS 

The
Company s incentive shares plans include performance share awards which
distribute the value of common stock to key management personnel subject to
certain operating performance conditions and other restrictions. Distribution is
primarily in shares of common stock and partially in cash. Compensation expense
is recognized over the service period based on the number of awards expected to
be ultimately earned. Performance share awards are accounted for as liabilities
in accordance with ASC 718,  Compensation   Stock
Compensation , with compensation expense adjusted at the end of each
period to reflect the change in fair value of the awards. 

As of
September 30, 2010, 10,060,964 performance shares were outstanding, which are
contingent on accomplishing the Company s performance objective and the
provision of service by the employees. The objective for 4,786,464 performance
shares awarded primarily in 2007 was met at the 96 percent performance level at
the end of 2010. Of these, the value of 2,871,878 shares will be distributed in
early 2011 while the value of 1,914,586 shares remains subject to the employees
providing one additional year of service. The remaining 5,274,500 performance
shares (primarily awarded in 2010) are contingent on achieving the Company s
performance objective through 2013 and the provision of service by the
employees. 

Incentive
shares plans also include restricted stock awards, which involve distribution of
common stock to key management personnel subject to cliff vesting at the end of
service periods ranging from three to 10 years. The fair value of these awards
is determined based on the average of the high and low price of the Company s
common stock on the date of grant, with compensation expense recognized ratably
over the applicable service period. In 2010, 260,000 shares of restricted stock
vested as a result of participants fulfilling the applicable service
requirements and, accordingly, 157,388 shares were issued while 102,612 shares
were withheld for income taxes in accordance with minimum withholding
requirements. The Company also performed a one-time conversion of outstanding
Avocent stock awards in conjunction with the acquisition and during 2010,
685,755 of these shares vested, with 467,452 Emerson shares issued and
218,303 shares withheld for taxes in accordance with minimum withholding
requirements. As of September 30, 2010, there were 2,222,379 non-vested shares
of restricted stock outstanding, including 254,379 shares related to the
one-time Avocent conversion. 

Changes
in awards outstanding but not yet earned under the incentive shares plans during
the year ended September 30, 2010 follow: 

The total
fair value of shares vested under the incentive shares plans was $42, $3 and
$253, respectively, in 2010, 2009 and 2008, of which $15, $1 and $104,
respectively, was paid in cash, primarily for tax withholding. As of September
30, 2010, approximately 10 million shares remained available for award under the
incentive shares plans. 

Total
compensation expense for the stock option and incentive shares plans was $217,
$54 and $82, for 2010, 2009 and 2008, respectively. The increase from 2009 to
2010 reflects overlap of two performance share programs during the year (2007
awards for performance through 2010 and 2010 awards for performance through
2013) and a higher stock price in the current year. The decrease from 2008 to
2009 reflects no performance share program overlap in 2009 and expense accrual
at a lower overall performance percentage. Income tax benefits recognized in the
income statement for these compensation arrangements during 2010, 2009 and 2008
were $65, $13 and $21, respectively. As of September 30, 2010, there was $270 of
total unrecognized compensation cost related to non-vested awards granted under
these plans, which is expected to be recognized over a weighted-average period
of 2.4 years. 

In
addition to the stock option and incentive shares plans, in 2010 the Company
awarded 25,610 shares of restricted stock and 5,122 restricted stock units under
the restricted stock plan for non-management directors. As of September 30,
2010, 338,122 shares remained available for issuance under this
plan. 

2010
Annual Report 

51 

(15)
Common Stock 

At
September 30, 2010, approximately 42 million shares of common stock were
reserved for issuance under the Company s stock-based compensation plans. During
2010, 2.1 million common shares were repurchased and 2.9 million treasury shares
were issued. 

(16)  Business
Segments Information 

The
Company designs and supplies product technology and delivers engineering
services in a wide range of industrial, commercial and consumer markets around
the world. The business segments of the Company are organized primarily by the
nature of the products and services they sell. The Process Management segment
provides systems and software, measurement and analytical instrumentation,
valves, actuators and regulators, and services and solutions that provide
precision control, monitoring and asset optimization for plants that produce
power or process fluids such as petroleum, chemicals, food and beverages, pulp
and paper and pharmaceuticals. The Industrial Automation segment provides
commercial and industrial motors and drives, power transmission and materials
handling equipment, alternators, materials joining and precision cleaning
products, fluid power and control mechanisms and electrical distribution
equipment which are used in a wide variety of manufacturing operations to
provide integrated manufacturing solutions to customers. The Network Power
segment designs, manufactures, installs and maintains power systems, including
power conditioning and uninterruptible AC and DC power supplies, embedded power
supplies, precision cooling systems, electrical switching equipment, and
integrated infrastructure monitoring and management systems for
telecommunications networks, data centers and other critical applications. The
Climate Technologies segment supplies compressors, temperature sensors and
controls, thermostats, flow controls and remote monitoring services to all
elements of the climate control industry. The Tools and Storage segment provides
tools for professionals and homeowners, home and commercial storage systems, and
appliance solutions. The principal distribution method for each segment is a
direct sales force, although the Company also uses independent sales
representatives and distributors. Certain of the Company s international
operations are subject to risks such as nationalization of operations,
significant currency exchange rate fluctuations and restrictions on the movement
of funds. 

The
primary income measure used for assessing segment performance and making
operating decisions is earnings before interest and income taxes. Intersegment
selling prices approximate market prices. Accounting method differences between
segment reporting and the consolidated financial statements are primarily
management fees allocated to segments based on a percentage of sales and the
accounting for pension and other retirement plans. Gains and losses from
divestitures of businesses are included in Corporate and other. Corporate assets
include primarily cash and equivalents, investments and certain fixed
assets. 

Summarized
below is information about the Company s operations by business segment and by
geographic region (also see Notes 3 through 6). In conjunction with the sale of
the appliance motors and U.S. commercial and industrial motors businesses,
segment disclosures reflect the reclassification of those businesses into
discontinued operations, and the movement of the retained hermetic motors
business from Tools and Storage (formerly Appliance and Tools) to Industrial
Automation. 

BUSINESS SEGMENTS 

(a) 

Corporate
      and other increased from 2009 to 2010 primarily reflecting higher
      incentive stock compensation expense related to an increase in the
      Company s stock price and the overlap of two incentive stock compensation
      plans in the current year (see Note 14), and acquisition costs. Corporate
      and other decreased from 2008 to 2009 primarily because of lower incentive
      stock compensation expense and lower commodity mark-to-market impact,
      partially offset by lower nonrecurring
gains. 

52 

GEOGRAPHIC 

Asia
includes sales in China of $2,692, $2,306 and $2,229 for 2010, 2009 and 2008,
respectively. 

(17)  Other
Financial Data 

Items
reported in earnings during the years ended September 30 include the
following: 

The
Company leases facilities, transportation and office equipment and various other
items under operating lease agreements. The minimum annual rentals under
noncancellable long-term leases, exclusive of maintenance, taxes, insurance and
other operating costs, will approximate $223 in 2011, $159 in 2012, $108 in
2013, $74 in 2014 and $54 in 2015. 

Items
reported in accrued expenses include the following: 

2010
Annual Report 

53 

Other
liabilities are summarized as follows: 

Other
operating cash flow is comprised of the following: 

(18)
Quarterly Financial Information (Unaudited) 

Earnings
per share are computed independently each period; as a result, the quarterly
amounts may not sum to the calculated annual figure. Certain prior year amounts
have been reclassified to conform to the current year presentation, including
operating results which have been reclassified as discontinued operations. See
Note 3. 

Emerson
Electric Co. common stock (symbol EMR) is listed on the New York Stock Exchange
and the Chicago Stock Exchange. 

54 

Report
of Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm 

The Board
of Directors and Stockholders  

      Emerson
Electric Co.: 

We have
audited the accompanying consolidated balance sheets of Emerson Electric Co. and
subsidiaries as of September 30, 2010 and 2009, and the related consolidated
statements of earnings, equity, and cash flows for each of the years in the
three-year period ended September 30, 2010. We also have audited Emerson
Electric Co. s internal control over financial reporting as of September 30,
2010, based on the criteria established in  Internal Control   Integrated
Framework  issued by the Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of the
Treadway Commission (COSO). Emerson Electric Co. s management is responsible for
these consolidated financial statements, for maintaining effective internal
control over financial reporting, and for its assessment of the effectiveness of
internal control over financial reporting, included in the accompanying  Management s Report on Internal
Control over Financial Reporting . Our responsibility is to express an
opinion on these consolidated financial statements and an opinion on the
Company s internal control over financial reporting based on our
audits. 

We
conducted our audits in accordance with the standards of the Public Company
Accounting Oversight Board (United States). Those standards require that we plan
and perform the audits to obtain reasonable assurance about whether the
financial statements are free of material misstatement and whether effective
internal control over financial reporting was maintained in all material
respects. Our audits of the consolidated financial statements included
examining, on a test basis, evidence supporting the amounts and disclosures in
the financial statements, assessing the accounting principles used and
significant estimates made by management, and evaluating the overall financial
statement presentation. Our audit of internal control over financial reporting
included obtaining an understanding of internal control over financial
reporting, assessing the risk that a material weakness exists, and testing and
evaluating the design and operating effectiveness of internal control based on
the assessed risk. Our audits also included performing such other procedures as
we considered necessary in the circumstances. We believe that our audits provide
a reasonable basis for our opinions. 

A
company s internal control over financial reporting is a process designed to
provide reasonable assurance regarding the reliability of financial reporting
and the preparation of financial statements for external purposes in accordance
with generally accepted accounting principles. A company s internal control over
financial reporting includes those policies and procedures that (1) pertain to
the maintenance of records that, in reasonable detail, accurately and fairly
reflect the transactions and dispositions of the assets of the company; (2)
provide reasonable assurance that transactions are recorded as necessary to
permit preparation of financial statements in accordance with generally accepted
accounting principles, and that receipts and expenditures of the company are
being made only in accordance with authorizations of management and directors of
the company; and (3) provide reasonable assurance regarding prevention or timely
detection of unauthorized acquisition, use, or disposition of the company s
assets that could have a material effect on the financial
statements. 

Because
of its inherent limitations, internal control over financial reporting may not
prevent or detect misstatements. Also, projections of any evaluation of
effectiveness to future periods are subject to the risk that controls may become
inadequate because of changes in conditions, or that the degree of compliance
with the policies or procedures may deteriorate. 

In our
opinion, the consolidated financial statements referred to above present fairly,
in all material respects, the financial position of Emerson Electric Co. and
subsidiaries as of September 30, 2010 and 2009, and the results of its
operations and its cash flows for each of the years in the three-year period
ended September 30, 2010, in conformity with U.S. generally accepted accounting
principles. Also in our opinion, Emerson Electric Co. maintained, in all
material respects, effective internal control over financial reporting as of
September 30, 2010, based on the criteria established in  Internal Control   Integrated
Framework  issued by the Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of the
Treadway Commission. 

Also as
discussed in Note 1 to the consolidated financial statements, effective
September 30, 2009, the Company changed its method of accounting for defined
benefit pension and postretirement plans by adopting the measurement date
provision of ASC 715, and effective October 1, 2009, the Company changed its
method of accounting for business combinations (ASC 805), noncontrolling
interests (ASC 810) and earnings per share (ASC 260). 

/s/ KPMG
LLP 

      St.
Louis, Missouri  

      November
23, 2010 

2010
Annual Report 

55 

Safe
Harbor Statement 

This
Annual Report contains various forward-looking statements and includes
assumptions concerning Emerson s operations, future results and prospects. These
forward-looking statements are based on current expectations, are subject to
risk and uncertainties, and Emerson undertakes no obligation to update any such
statements to reflect later developments. In connection with the  safe harbor 
provisions of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995, Emerson
provides the following cautionary statement identifying important economic,
political and technological factors, among others, changes in which could cause
the actual results or events to differ materially from those set forth in or
implied by the forward-looking statements and related assumptions. 

Such
factors include, but are not limited to, the following: (i) current and future
business environment, including interest rates, currency exchange rates and
capital and consumer spending; (ii) potential volatility of the end markets
served; (iii) competitive factors and competitor responses to Emerson
initiatives; (iv) development and market introduction of anticipated new
products; (v) availability of raw materials and purchased components; (vi) U.S.
and foreign government laws and regulations, including taxes and restrictions;
(vii) outcome of pending and future litigation, including environmental
compliance; (viii) stability of governments and business conditions in foreign
countries, including emerging economies, which could result in nationalization
of facilities or disruption of operations; (ix) penetration of emerging
economies; (x) favorable environment for acquisitions, domestic and foreign,
including regulatory requirements and market values of candidates; (xi)
integration of acquisitions; (xii) favorable access to capital markets; and
(xiii) execution of cost-reduction efforts. 

</EX-13>

<EX-21>
 4
 v203504_ex21.htm
 EX-21

EXHIBIT
21 

      SUBSIDIARIES
AND AFFILIATES OF EMERSON ELECTRIC CO. 

      September
30, 2010 

LEGAL NAME  

JURISDICTION OF 

                                           INCORPORATION  

Alco
      Controls, S.A. de C.V. 

Mexico 

Applied
      Concepts, Inc. 

Pennsylvania 

Artesyn
      Technologies, Inc. 

Florida 

Artesyn
      North America, Inc. 

Delaware 

AIH,
      Inc. 

Delaware 

AIHL,
      LLC 

Delaware 

Astec
      America Inc. 

Delaware 

Astec
      Electronics (Malaysia) Sdn Bhd 

Malaysia 

Astec
      International Holdings Limited 

Delaware/UK 

Emerson
      Network Power - Embedded Computing and Power (Hong Kong)
      Limited 

Hong
      Kong 

Astec
      International Limited 

Hong
      Kong 

Astec
      Advanced Power Systems Ltda. 

Brazil 

Astec
      Advanced Power Systems (Malaysia) Sdn Bhd 

Malaysia 

Astec
      Advanced Power Systems (Penang) Sdn Bhd 

Malaysia 

Astec
      Agencies Limited 

Hong
      Kong 

Astec
      Custom Power (Hong Kong) Limited 

Hong
      Kong 

Astec
      Custom Power (Philippines) Inc. 

Philippines 

Astec
      Custom Power (Singapore) Pte Ltd 

Singapore 

Astec
      Electronics Company Limited 

China 

Astec
      Electronics (Luoding) Company Ltd. 

China 

Astec
      Nanjing Design Engineering Company 

China 

Astec
      Power Supply (Shenzhen) Company Ltd. 

China 

Astec
      Power Inc. 

BVI 

Astec
      Power Philippines, Inc. 

Philippines 

Emerson
      Network Power - Embedded Power (Vietnam) Co., Ltd. 

Vietnam 

Emerson
      Network Power (Vietnam) Design Company Limited 

Vietnam 

Artesyn
      Cayman Ltd. 

Cayman
      Islands 

Artesyn
      Cayman LP 

Cayman
      Islands 

Artesyn
      International Ltd. 

Cayman
      Islands 

Artesyn
      Ireland Ltd. 

Cayman
      Islands 

Artesyn
      Technologies Asia Pacific, Ltd. 

Hong
      Kong 

Artesyn
      Netherlands B.V. 

Netherlands 

Artesyn
      UK Ltd. 

United
      Kingdom 

Artesyn
      Holding GmbH 

Austria 

Artesyn
      Austria GmbH 

Austria 

Artesyn
      Austria GmbH   Co. KG 

Austria 

Artesyn
      do Brasil Comercio de Produtos de Conversao de Energia
LTDA 

Hungary 

Artesyn
      Hungary Elektronikai kft 

Brazil 

Artesyn
      Germany GmbH 

Germany 

Artesyn
      Elektronische Gerate Beteiligungs-und Verwaltungs GmbH 

Germany 

Artesyn
      GmbH   Co. KG 

Germany 

Emerson
      Network Power - Embedded Computing   Power S.A.R.L. 

France 

Emerson
      Network  Power - Embedded Computing GmbH 

Germany 

EMR
      Holdings Limited 

Japan 

Stourbridge
      Holdings (U.K.) Limited 

United
      Kingdom 

Mirroware
      Manufacturing Limited 

United
      Kingdom 

Astec
      Europe Limited 

United
      Kingdom 

Emerson
      Network Power - Embedded Computing UK Ltd 

United
      Kingdom 

Artesyn
      Delaware Holdings LLC 

Delaware 

Artesyn
      Delaware, LLC 

Delaware 

Emerson
      Network Power - Embedded Computing, Inc. 

Wisconsin 

Artesyn
      Communication Products UK Ltd. 

Scotland 

Pro-Log
      Corporation 

California 

Avocent
      Corporation 

Delaware 

EXHIBIT
21 

      SUBSIDIARIES
AND AFFILIATES OF EMERSON ELECTRIC CO. 

      September
30, 2010 

LEGAL NAME  

JURISDICTION OF 

                                                                           INCORPORATION  

Avocent
      Huntsville Corp. 

Alabama 

Aperture
      International Limited 

United
      Kingdom 

Avocent
      do Brasil Informatica S.A. 

Brazil 

Avocent
      Fremont Corp. 

California 

Avocent
      China Technology Limited 

China 

OSA
      Technologies Info. Co. Ltd. 

China 

Avocent
      International Holdings Limited 

Ireland 

Avocent
      Belgium Limited BVBA/SPRL 

Belgium 

Avocent
      Asia Pacific Pte. Ltd. 

Singapore 

Avocent
      Australia Pty. Ltd. 

Australia 

Avocent
      (China) Limited 

Hong
      Kong 

Avocent
      Taiwan Co., Ltd. 

Taiwan 

Avocent
      International Limited 

Ireland 

Avocent
      Deutschland GmbH 

Germany 

Avocent
      Italia SRL 

Italy 

Avocent
      Japan KK 

Japan 

Avocent
      Netherlands B.V. 

Netherlands 

Avocent
      Spain SL 

Spain 

Avocent
      Sweden AB 

Sweden 

Avocent
      Redmond Corp. 

Washington 

Avocent
      Texas Corp. 

Texas 

B.B.I.,
      S.A. de C.V. 

Mexico 

Branson
      Ultrasonic S.A. 

Switzerland 

Bristol,
      Inc. 

Delaware 

California
      Emerson LLC 

Delaware 

ClosetMaid
      Corporation 

Florida 

Clairson,
      Inc. 

Delaware 

ClosetMaid
      de Mexico, S.A. de C.V. 

Mexico 

ClosetMaid
      North America, Inc. 

Delaware 

Computational
      Systems, Incorporated 

Tennessee 

CSI
      Technology, Inc. 

Delaware 

Control
      Techniques Iberia S.A. 

Spain 

Cooligy
      Inc. 

Delaware 

Daniel
      Industries, Inc. 

Delaware 

Emerson
      Process Management Valve Automation, Inc. 

Delaware 

Bettis
      Canada Ltd. 

Canada 

Bettis
      France SARL 

France 

Bettis
      Holdings, Ltd. 

United
      Kingdom 

Bettis
      UK Ltd. 

United
      Kingdom 

Prime
      Actuator Control Systems Limited 

United
      Kingdom 

Prime
      Actuator Control Systems UK Ltd. 

United
      Kingdom 

Dantorque
      A/S 

Denmark 

Emerson
      Process Management Valve Actuation LLC 

Delaware 

Hytork
      Controls, Inc. 

Delaware 

Daniel
      Automation Company 

Delaware 

Daniel
      Industrial, Inc. 

Delaware 

Daniel
      En-Fab Systems, Inc. 

Delaware 

Daniel
      International Limited 

United
      Kingdom 

Daniel
      Europe Limited 

United
      Kingdom 

Daniel
      Industries Limited 

United
      Kingdom 

Spectra-Tek
      Holdings Ltd. 

United
      Kingdom 

Spectra-Tek
      UK Ltd. 

United
      Kingdom 

Daniel
      Measurement Solutions Pvt. Ltd. 

India 

Spectra-Tek
      International Limited 

United
      Kingdom 

EXHIBIT
21 

      SUBSIDIARIES
AND AFFILIATES OF EMERSON ELECTRIC CO. 

      September
30, 2010 

LEGAL NAME  

JURISDICTION OF 

                                                               INCORPORATION  

Greenfield
      (UK) Limited 

United
      Kingdom 

Daniel
      Measurement and Control, Inc. 

Delaware 

Daniel
      Industries Canada Inc. 

Canada 

Daniel
      Measurement Services, Inc. 

Delaware 

METCO
      Services Limited 

United
      Kingdom 

Metco
      Services Venezuela, C.A. 

Venezuela 

Danmasa
      S.A. de C.V. 

Mexico 

Hytork
      International Ltd. 

United
      Kingdom 

Hytork
      Controls, Inc. 

Florida 

Hytork
      Controls Limited 

United
      Kingdom 

Hytork
      LLC 

Delaware 

Hytork
      Services Limited 

United
      Kingdom 

DEAS
      Holdings, Inc. 

Delaware 

Dura-Line
      Limited 

United
      Kingdom 

EDAS
      (I) U.K. Limited 

United
      Kingdom 

EDAS
      (II) U.K. Limited 

United
      Kingdom 

EECO,
      Inc. 

Delaware 

Apple
      JV Holding Corp. 

Delaware 

EGS
      Electrical Group LLC 

Delaware 

Appleton
      Electric LLC 

Delaware 

Appleton
      Electric, S.A. de C.V. 

Mexico 

Appleton
      Holding Corp. 

Delaware 

EGS
      Electrical Group Canada Ltd. 

Canada 

Easy
      Heat Ltd. 

Canada 

EGS
      Participacoes Ltda. 

Brazil 

Nutsteel
      Ind stria Metal rgica Ltda. 

Brazil 

Easy
      Heat, Inc. 

Delaware 

Easy
      Heat Holding B.V. 

Netherlands 

Easy
      Heat Europe B.V. 

Netherlands 

EGS
      Electrical Group Romania S.R.L. 

Romania 

EGS
      Holding S.A.R.L. 

France 

ATX
      S.A. 

France 

EGS
      Mexico S. de R.L. de C.V. 

Mexico 

EGS
      Private Ltd. 

Singapore 

GSEG
      LLC 

Delaware 

O-Z
      Gedney Company LLC 

Delaware 

Electrical
      Reliability Services, Inc. 

California 

Emerson
      Climate Technologies, Inc. 

Delaware 

Computer
      Process Controls, Inc. 

Georgia 

Emerson
      Retail Services, Inc. 

Delaware 

Clive
      Samuels   Associates, Inc. 

New
      Jersey 

Emerson
      Climate Services, LLC 

Delaware 

Copeland
      Access +, Inc. 

Delaware 

Copeland
      Corporation LLC 

Delaware 

Copeland
      de Mexico S.A. de C.V. 

Mexico 

Emerson
      Climate Technologies (India) Limited 

India 

Copeland
      Redevelopment Corporation 

Missouri 

CR
      Compressors LLC 

Delaware 

Scroll
      Compressors LLC 

Delaware 

Scroll
      Mexico LLC 

Delaware 

Emerson
      Electric (U.S.) Holding Corporation 

Delaware 

Automatic
      Switch Company 

Delaware 

ASC
      Investments, Inc. 

Delaware 

Asco
      Controls AG 

Switzerland 

EXHIBIT
21 

      SUBSIDIARIES
AND AFFILIATES OF EMERSON ELECTRIC CO. 

      September
30, 2010 

LEGAL NAME  

JURISDICTION OF 

                               INCORPORATION  

Asco
      Controls B.V. 

Netherlands 

Asco
      Mideast B.V. 

Netherlands 

Asco
      Magnesszelep Kft. 

Hungary 

Asco/Joucomatic
      sp. z.o.o. 

Poland 

Asco/Joucomatic
      s.r.o. 

Czech
      Republic 

Asco
      Joucomatic ZA BV 

Netherlands 

ASCO/NUMATICS
      GmbH 

Switzerland 

Ascomation
      Pty. Ltd. 

Australia 

Asco
      Numatics Pty. Ltd. 

Australia 

Asco
      Valve Pty. Ltd. 

Australia 

Ascomation
      (NZ) Ltd. 

New
      Zealand 

Asco
      Numatics (NZ) Limited 

New
      Zealand 

Sirai
      Pty. Ltd. 

Australia 

Asco
      AB 

Sweden 

ASCO
      Japan Co., Ltd. 

Japan 

Ascomatica
      S.A. de C.V. 

Mexico 

Asco
      Services, Inc. 

New
      Jersey 

ASCO
      Switch Enterprises LLC 

Delaware 

ASCO
      Numatics (India) Limited 

India 

ASCO
      Power Technologies, L.P. 

Delaware 

ASCO
      Valve Enterprises LLC 

Delaware 

ASCO
      Valve, Inc. 

Delaware 

ASCO
      Controls, L.P. 

Delaware 

ASCO
      Valve Manufacturing, LLC 

Delaware 

Ascotech,
      S.A. de C.V. 

Mexico 

Ascoval
      Industria E Commercio Ltda. 

Brazil 

Branson
      Ultrasonics Corporation 

Delaware 

Branson
      Korea Co., Ltd. 

Korea 

Branson
      Ultrasonidos S.A.E. 

Spain 

Branson
      Ultrasons S.A.S. 

France 

El-O-Matic
      GmbH 

Germany 

Emerson
      Climate Technologies GmbH 

Germany 

Emerson
      Climate Technologies Limited 

United
      Kingdom 

Emerson
      Climate Technologies Refrigeration S.A. 

Belgium 

Emerson
      Climate Technologies S.A. 

Spain 

Emerson
      Climate Technologies s.a.r.l. 

France 

Emerson
      Climate Technologies S.r.L. 

Italy 

Emerson
      Dietzenbach GmbH 

Germany 

Emerson
      Electric GmbH 

Germany 

Emerson
      Electric GmbH   Co. OHG 

Germany 

Emerson
      Electric Overseas Finance Corp. 

Delaware 

Emerson
      Process Management GmbH 

Germany 

Emerson
      Process Management GmbH   Co. OHG 

Germany 

epro
      GmbH 

Germany 

Emerson
      Process Management Ltda. 

Brazil 

Emerson
      Retail Services Europe GmbH 

Germany 

Emerson
      Technologies Verwaltungs GmbH 

Germany 

Emerson
      Technologies GmbH   Co. OHG 

Germany 

Emersub
      LXXXIV, Inc. 

Delaware 

Emersub
      LXXXVI, Inc. 

Delaware 

EMR
      Holdings (France) S.A.S. 

France 

Asco
      Joucomatic S.A. 

France 

Asco
      Numatics GmbH 

Germany 

Fluidocontrol
      S.A. 

Spain 

EXHIBIT
21 

      SUBSIDIARIES
AND AFFILIATES OF EMERSON ELECTRIC CO. 

      September
30, 2010 

LEGAL NAME  

JURISDICTION OF 

                             INCORPORATION  

Joucomatic
      S.A. 

Belgium 

Avocent
      France SAS 

France 

Company
      Financiere de Chausey, SA 

France 

Emerson
      Network Power Energy Systems, SA 

France 

Emerson
      Network Power SA 

France 

Francel
      S.A. 

France 

Leroy-Somer
      S.A. 

France 

Bertrand
      Polico SAS 

France 

Constructions
      Electriques DeBeaucourt SAS 

France 

ESO
      S.A.S 

France 

Belzon
      et Richardot SARL 

France 

Cocard
      SARL 

France 

ESO
      Ile de France 

France 

ESO
      OUEST 

France 

ESO
      NORD EST 

France 

ESO
      NORMANDIE 

France 

ESO
      SUD EST 

France 

ESO
      SUD OUEST 

France 

Lorraine
      Service SARL 

France 

MEZIERES
      SARL 

France 

MIS
      CENTRE EST 

France 

MIS
      SARL 

France 

Radiel
      Bobinage SARL 

France 

Suder
      SARL 

France 

Wieprecht
      CF SARL 

France 

Etablissements
      Trepeau SAS 

France 

Girard
      Transmissions SAS 

France 

I.M.I
      Kft 

Hungary 

La
      Francaise de Manutention SAS 

France 

Leroy-Somer
      Denmark A/S 

Denmark 

Leroy
      Somer Elektomekanik Sistemler Ticaret Ltd. STI 

Turkey 

Leroy-Somer
      Iberica S.A. 

Spain 

Teilsa
      Servicios, S.L. 

Spain 

Leroy-Somer
      Ltd. 

Greece 

Leroy-Somer
      Limited 

United
      Kingdom 

Leroy-Somer
      Marbaise GmbH 

Germany 

Leroy-Somer
      Motores E Sistemas Electro Mecanicas CDA 

Portugal 

Leroy-Somer
      B.V. 

Netherlands 

Leroy-Somer
      Norden AB 

Sweden 

Leroy-Somer
      Norge A/S 

Norway 

Leroy-Somer
      NV 

Belgium 

Muyle
      Electro-Machinery SA 

Belgium 

Leroy-Somer
      Finland OY 

Finland 

Leroy
      Somer (Pty) Ltd. (South Africa) 

South
      Africa 

Leroy-Somer
      (Pty) Ltd. 

Australia 

Leroy-Somer
      S.E.A. Pte. Ltd. 

Singapore 

Leroy-Somer
      SA 

Switzerland 

Leroy-Somer
      S.p.A. 

Italy 

E.M.S.
      Elettro Multi Service Srl 

Italy 

M.L.S.
      Holice spol. s.r.o. 

Czech
      Republic 

MLS
      Industries Inc. 

Delaware 

Yorba
      Linda International, Inc. 

Delaware 

Moteurs
      Leroy-Somer S.A. 

France 

Moteurs
      Patay SAS 

France 

EXHIBIT
21 

      SUBSIDIARIES
AND AFFILIATES OF EMERSON ELECTRIC CO. 

      September
30, 2010 

LEGAL NAME  

JURISDICTION OF 

                                             INCORPORATION  

Societe
      Anonyme de Mecanique et D outillage du Vivarais S.A. 

France 

Societe
      Confolentaise de Metallurgie SAS 

France 

Societe
      de Mecanique et D Electrothermie des Pays de L'Adour SAS 

France 

Ridgid
      France SAS 

France 

Germany 

Ridge
      Tool GmbH 

Germany 

Ridge
      Tool GmbH   Co. OHG 

Germany 

RIDGID
      Peddinghaus Werkzeug GmbH 

Germany 

Rosemount
      Inc. 

Minnesota 

Control
      Techniques - Americas, Inc. 

Delaware 

Control
      Techniques - Americas LLC 

Delaware 

Fincor
      Holding, LLC 

Delaware 

Dieterich
      Standard, Inc. 

Delaware 

Emerson
      Process Management AB 

Sweden 

Emerson
      Process Management A/S (Denmark) 

Denmark 

Emerson
      Process Management AS 

Norway 

Emerson
      Process Management Holding AG 

Switzerland 

Emerson
      Process Management AG 

Switzerland 

Emerson
      EAD 

Bulgaria 

Emerson
      LLC 

Azerbaijan 

Emerson
      LLC 

Ukraine 

Emerson
      LLP 

Kazakhstan 

Emerson
      Process Management Kft. 

Hungary 

Emerson
      Process Management Romania S.R.L. 

Romania 

Emerson
      Process Management sp. z.o.o. 

Poland 

Emerson
      Process Management Ticaret Limited Sirketi 

Turkey 

Emerson
      Process Management, s.r.o. 

Czech
      Republic 

Emerson
      Process Management, s.r.o. 

Slovakia 

Emerson
      Process Management Power and Water Solutions Sp. z.o.o. 

Poland 

Emerson
      Process Management Asia Pacific Pte Ltd. 

Singapore 

Emerson
      Process Management Manufacturing (M) Sdn Bhd 

Malaysia 

Emerson
      Process Management (Shanghai) International Trading Co.
    Ltd. 

China 

Emerson
      Process Management Valve Automation (M) Sdn Bhd 

Malaysia 

Emerson
      Process Management (India) Pvt. Ltd. 

India 

Emerson
      Process Management Korea Ltd. 

Korea 

Emerson
      Process Management Oy 

Finland 

Emerson
      Process Management, S.A. de C.V. 

Mexico 

Emerson
      Process Management, S.L. 

Spain 

P I
      Components Corp. 

Texas 

Rosemount
      Analytical Inc. 

Delaware 

Rosemount
      China Inc. 

Minnesota 

Rosemount
      Nuclear Instruments, Inc. 

Delaware 

Xomox
      Uruguay S.A. 

Uruguay 

Emerson
      Power Transmission Corporation 

Delaware 

Emerson
      Chain, Inc. 

Delaware 

Emerson
      Power Transmission Manufacturing 

Missouri 

Emerson
      Power Transmission Ithaca, Inc. 

Delaware 

Rollway
      Bearing International Ltd. 

Delaware 

Rollway
      Bearing N.V. 

Belgium 

EPT
      Investments, Inc. 

Delaware 

McGill
      Manufacturing Company, Inc. 

Indiana 

Liebert
      Corporation 

Ohio 

Alber
      Corp. 

Florida 

Atlas
      Asia Limited 

Hong
      Kong 

EXHIBIT
21 

      SUBSIDIARIES
AND AFFILIATES OF EMERSON ELECTRIC CO. 

      September
30, 2010 

LEGAL NAME  

JURISDICTION OF 

                                                                 INCORPORATION  

Emerson
      Network Power Software (Shenzhen) Co., Ltd. 

China 

Emerson
      Network Power Australia Pty. Ltd. 

Australia 

Atlas
      Air Australia Pty. Ltd. 

Australia 

Emerson
      Network Power DHC B.V. 

Netherlands 

Emerson
      Network Power do Brasil Ltda. 

Brazil 

Emerson
      Network Power (Hong Kong) Limited 

Hong
      Kong 

Wuhan
      Liebert Computer Power Support System Limited 

China 

Emerson
      Network Power (India) Private Limited 

India 

Leroy
      Somer India Private Limited 

India 

Emerson
      Network Power, Liebert Services, Inc. 

Delaware 

Emerson
      Network Power (Singapore) Pte. Ltd. 

Singapore 

Emerson
      Network Power (Malaysia) Sdn. Bhd. 

Malaysia 

Kn rr
      Pte. Ltd. 

Singapore 

Spectra
      Systems Sdn Bhd 

Malaysia 

Emerson
      Network Power Surge Protection, Inc. 

New
      York 

Emerson
      Network Power (Thailand) Co. Ltd. 

Thailand 

Liebert
      Field Services, Inc. 

Delaware 

Liebert
      North America, Inc. 

Delaware 

Liebert
      Property Holdings, LLC 

Delaware 

Micro
      Motion, Inc. 

Colorado 

Ridge
      Tool Company 

Ohio 

Ridge
      Tool (Australia) Pty., Ltd. 

Australia 

Ridge
      Tool Manufacturing Company 

Delaware 

Ridge
      Tool Pattern Company 

Delaware 

Ridgid,
      Inc. 

Delaware 

Ridgid
      Italia Srl 

Italy 

Ridgid
      Online, Inc. 

Ohio 

Ridgid
      Werkzeuge AG 

Switzerland 

Therm-O-Disc,
      Incorporated 

Ohio 

Componentes
      Avanzados de Mexico, S.A. de C.V. 

Mexico 

Controles
      de Temperatura S.A. de C.V. 

Mexico 

E.G.P.
      Corporation 

Delaware 

Emermex
      S.A. de C.V. 

Mexico 

Emerson
      Arabia, Inc. 

Delaware 

Emerson
      Process Management Arabia Limited 

Saudi
      Arabia 

Emersub
      4 LLC 

Delaware 

Emerson
      Capital (Canada) Corporation 

Canada 

Emerson
      Climate Technologies Mexico S.A. de C.V. 

Mexico 

Emerson
      Electric (Asia) Limited 

Hong
      Kong 

Branson
      Ultrasonics (Asia Pacific) Co. Ltd. 

Hong
      Kong 

Emerson
      Electric (South Asia) Pte. Ltd. 

Singapore 

Emerson
      Technology Service (Shenzhen) Co. 

China 

Emerson
      Electric II, C.A. 

Venezuela 

Emerson
      Electric de Colombia Ltda. 

Colombia 

Emerson
      Electric International, Inc. 

Delaware 

Emerson
      Electric Ireland Ltd. 

Bermuda 

Emersub
      Treasury Ireland 

Ireland 

Emerson
      Electric (Mauritius) Ltd. 

Mauritius 

Emerson
      Electric Co. (India) Private Ltd. 

India 

Westinghouse
      Electric Private Ltd. (Mauritius) 

Mauritius 

Emerson
      Process Management Power   Water Solutions India Private
      Limited 

India 

Emerson
      Electric Nederland B.V. 

Netherlands 

Aegir
      Norge Holding AS 

Norway 

Roxar
      ASA 

Norway 

EXHIBIT
21 

      SUBSIDIARIES
AND AFFILIATES OF EMERSON ELECTRIC CO. 

      September
30, 2010 

LEGAL NAME  

JURISDICTION OF 

                                                                 INCORPORATION  

CorrOcean
      Mareco AS 

Norway 

Corrocean
      Srl 

Italy 

Roxar
      Sdn Bhd 

Malaysia 

RFM
      Holding AS 

Norway 

PolyOil
      Ltd. 

United
      Kingdom 

Roxar
      do Brasil Ltda. 

Brazil 

Roxar
      Flow Measurement AS 

Norway 

Roxar
      Flow Measurement, Inc. 

Delaware 

Roxar
      Flow Measurement Ltd. 

United
      Kingdom 

Roxar
      Flow Measurement Sdn Bhd 

Malaysia 

Roxar
      International AS 

Norway 

Roxar
      Nigeria Ltd. 

Nigeria 

Roxar
      Pty Ltd. 

Australia 

Roxar
      Saudi Company 

Saudi
      Arabia 

Roxar
      Holding AS 

Norway 

Energy
      Scitech Ltd. 

United
      Kingdom 

Roxar
      Xworks AS 

Norway 

RSS
      Software Holding AS 

Norway 

Roxar
      Canada Ltd. 

Canada 

Roxar
      de Mexico S.A. de C.V. 

Mexico 

Roxar
      de Venezuela C.A. 

Venezuela 

Roxar,
      Inc. 

Delaware 

Roxar
      Ltd. 

United
      Kingdom 

Roxar
      Maximum Reservoir Performance WLL 

Bahrain 

Roxar
      Services AS 

Norway 

Roxar
      Services OOO 

Russia 

Roxar
      Software Solutions AS 

Norway 

Roxar
      Strategic Staffing S.A. de C.V. 

Mexico 

Roxar
      Vietnam Company Ltd. 

Vietnam 

Alco
      Controls spol. s.r.o. 

Czech
      Republic 

Branson
      Ultrasonics B.V. 

Netherlands 

Beckman
      Industrial B.V. 

Netherlands 

Damcos
      Holding A/S 

Denmark 

Damcos
      A/S. 

Denmark 

Emerson
      Process Management Marine Solutions Korea Co., Ltd. 

Korea 

Emerson
      Process Management Marine Systems (Shanghai) Co., Ltd. 

China 

El-O-Matic
      B.V. 

Netherlands 

El-O-Matic
      Valve Actuators (F.E.) Pte. Ltd. 

Singapore 

Emerson
      Process Management (South Africa) (Proprietary) Ltd. 

South
      Africa 

Electrische
      Apparantenfabriek Capax B.V. 

Netherlands 

Emerson
      a.s. 

Slovakia 

Emerson
      LLC 

Russia 

Emerson
      S.R.L. 

Romania 

Emerson
      Climate Technologies, s.r.o. 

Czech
      Republic 

Emerson
      Electric spol. s.r.o. 

Czech
      Republic 

Emerson
      Network Power Pakistan (Private) Limited 

Pakistan 

Emerson
      Network Power (Vietnam) Co. Ltd. 

Vietnam 

Emerson
      Process Management B.V. 

Netherlands 

Emerson
      Process Management (Vietnam) Co., Ltd. 

Vietnam 

EMRSN
      HLDG B.V. 

Netherlands 

Emerson
      Network Power B.V. 

Netherlands 

Emerson
      Process Management Flow B.V. 

Netherlands 

Fisher
      Rosemount Temperature B.V. 

Netherlands 

Fusite,
      B.V. 

Netherlands 

EXHIBIT
21 

      SUBSIDIARIES
AND AFFILIATES OF EMERSON ELECTRIC CO. 

      September
30, 2010 

LEGAL NAME  

JURISDICTION OF 

                                                                 INCORPORATION  

Ortrud
      Verwaltungsgesellschaft mbH 

Germany 

Kn rr-Holding
      GmbH 

Germany 

Kn rr
      AG 

Germany 

Kn rr
      AB 

Sweden 

Kn rr
      AG 

Switzerland 

Kn rr
      AG   Co. Grundbesitz OHG 

Germany 

Kn rr
      BV 

Netherlands 

Kn rr
      Electronics GmbH 

Germany 

Kn rr
      Electronics GmbH   Co. Grundbesitz OHG 

Germany 

Kn rr-Ercotec
      GmbH   Grundstucksverwaltung KG 

Germany 

Kn rr
      Electronics Private Limited 

India 

Kn rr
      Electronics (Shanghai) Co. Ltd. 

China 

Kn rr
      Holding Ltda. 

Brazil 

Kn rr
      Ltda. 

Brazil 

Kn rr
      Innovation GmbH 

Germany 

Kn rr
      Ltd. 

United
      Kingdom 

Kn rr
      Lommatec Mechanik fur die Elektronik Beteiligungs und Verwaltungs
      GmbH 

Germany 

Kn rr
      s.a.r.l. 

France 

Kn rr
      s.r.o. 

Czech
      Republic 

Kn rr
      Technical Furniture GmbH 

Germany 

Kn rr-Ercotec
      GmbH 

Germany 

Kn rr
      International GmbH 

Germany 

Therm-O-Disc
      Europe B.V. 

Netherlands 

Therm-O-Disc
      (Vietnam) Co., Ltd. 

Vietnam 

Emerson
      Electric Puerto Rico, Inc. 

Delaware 

Emerson
      Puerto Rico, Inc. 

Delaware 

Emerson
      Electric (Taiwan) Company Limited 

Taiwan 

Emerson
      Finance LLC 

Delaware 

Emerson
      Middle East, Inc. 

Delaware 

Emerson
      Network Power, Energy Systems, North America, Inc. 

Delaware 

Emerson
      Network Power Exportel, S.A. de C.V. 

Mexico 

Emerson
      Network Power, Inc. 

Texas 

Emerson
      Sice S.r.l. 

Italy 

Asco
      Numatics Sirai S.r.l. 

Italy 

Branson
      Ultrasuoni S.r.l. 

Italy 

CDZ.T
      s.r.l. 

Italy 

Dixell
      S.r.l. 

Italy 

Emerson
      Network Power Holding S.r.l. 

Italy 

Emerson
      Network Power S.r.l. 

Italy 

Emerson
      Network Power Enterprise S.r.l. 

Italy 

Emerson
      Network Power Sp. Z.o.o. 

Poland 

Liebert
      Hiross Holding GmbH 

Germany 

Emerson
      Network Power GmbH 

Germany 

Emerson
      Network Power Kft. 

Hungary 

Emerson
      Process Management S.r.l. 

Italy 

System
      Plast S.r.l. 

Italy 

System
      Plast GmbH 

Germany 

System
      Plast International BV 

Netherlands 

System
      Plast, LLC 

North
      Carolina 

SPPA
      LLC 

Pennsylvania 

Solus
      Industrial Innovations, LLC 

Delaware 

Solus
      Industrial Innovations BV 

Netherlands 

System
      Plast USA de Mexico, S. de R.L. de C.V. 

Mexico 

System
      Plast Ltd. 

United
      Kingdom 

EXHIBIT
21 

      SUBSIDIARIES
AND AFFILIATES OF EMERSON ELECTRIC CO. 

      September
30, 2010 

LEGAL NAME  

JURISDICTION OF 

                                                                                             INCORPORATION  

System
      Plast Ltda. 

Brazil 

System
      Plast S.A. 

France 

Emerson
      Telecommunication Products, LLC 

Delaware 

JTP
      Industries, Inc. 

Delaware 

Emerson
      Network Power Connectivity Solutions, Inc. 

Delaware 

Emerson
      Electronic Connector and Components do Brasil, Ltda. 

Brazil 

Emerson
      Mexico Corporate Services S de R.L. de C.V. 

Mexico 

LoDan
      de Mexico S.A. de C.V. 

Mexico 

LoDan
      West do Brasil, Ltda. 

Brazil 

Stratos
      International, Inc. 

Delaware 

Advanced
      Interconnection Technology LLC 

Delaware 

Paracer,
      Inc. 

Delaware 

Rapidwerks
      LLC 

Delaware 

Sterling
      Holding Company 

Delaware 

Quality
      Components, Inc. 

Delaware 

Semflex,
      Inc. 

Delaware 

Swiss
      Precision Products, Inc. 

Delaware 

TQ
      Management Corporation 

Delaware 

Trompeter
      Electronics, Inc. 

Delaware 

STRATOS
      Lightwave, LLC 

Delaware 

Stratos
      Lightwave-Florida Incorporated 

Delaware 

Stratos
      Limited 

United
      Kingdom 

Stratos
      Lightwave UK Limited 

United
      Kingdom 

Tsunami
      Optics, Inc. 

California 

Viewsonics
      do Brasil, Ltda. 

Brazil 

Engineered
      Endeavors, Inc. 

Delaware 

Engineered
      Endeavors do Brasil, Ltda. 

Brazil 

Engineered
      Endeavors do Brasil Servicos Ltda. 

Brazil 

Northern
      Technologies, Inc. 

Idaho 

Emerson
      Venezuela C.A. 

Venezuela 

Emerson
      Ventures Inc. 

Delaware 

Emerson
      WFC, Inc. 

Delaware 

Emersub
      3 LLC 

Delaware 

Emersub
      14 LLC 

Delaware 

Vilter
      Manufacturing LLC 

Wisconsin 

Emersub
      CII, Inc. 

Delaware 

Emersub
      XLVI, Inc. 

Nevada 

Copesub,
      Inc. 

Delaware 

Alliance
      Compressors LLC 

Delaware 

Emersub
      LII, Inc. 

Delaware 

Emersub
      XCI, Inc. 

Delaware 

Emersub
      Italia Srl 

Italy 

International
      Gas Distribution S.A. 

Luxembourg 

O.M.T
      OFFICINA MECCANICA TARTARINI S.R.L. 

Italy 

Fisher
      Process Srl 

Italy 

EMR
      Foundation, Inc. 

Missouri 

EMR
      Holdings, Inc. 

Delaware 

Branson
      de Mexico, S.A. de C.V. 

Mexico 

Copeland
      Compresores Hermeticos, S.A. de C.V. 

Mexico 

Copeland
      Korea, Inc. 

Korea 

Emerson
      Appliance Solutions (Shenzhen) Co., Ltd. 

China 

Emerson
      Argentina S.A. 

Argentina 

Emerson
      Climate Technologies Australia Pty Ltd. 

Australia 

Emerson
      del Peru S.A.C. 

Peru 

EXHIBIT
21 

      SUBSIDIARIES
AND AFFILIATES OF EMERSON ELECTRIC CO. 

      September
30, 2010 

LEGAL NAME  

JURISDICTION OF 

                                 INCORPORATION  

Emerson
      d.o.o. 

Croatia 

Emerson
      Electric Chile Ltda. 

Chile 

Emerson
      Electric C.R. S.R.L. 

Costa
      Rica 

Emerson
      Electric de Mexico S.A. de C.V. 

Mexico 

Emerson
      Electric do Brasil Ltda 

Brazil 

Emerson
      Comercio em Tecnologia de Climatizacao Ltda 

Brazil 

Emerson
      Electric Holdings (Switzerland) GmbH 

Switzerland 

Emerson
      (China) Motor Co., Ltd. 

China 

Emerson
      Process Management Co., Ltd. 

China 

EMR
      Emerson Holdings (Switzerland) GmbH 

Switzerland 

EMR
      (Asia) Limited 

Hong
      Kong 

Emerson
      Electric (China) Holdings Co., Ltd. 

China 

ASCO
      Valve (Shanghai) Co., Ltd. 

China 

Beijing
      Rosemount Far East Instrument Co., Ltd. 

China 

Branson
      Ultrasonics (Shanghai) Co., Ltd. 

China 

ClosetMaid
      (Jiangmen) Storage Limited 

China 

Emerson
      Beijing Instrument Co. Ltd. 

China 

Emerson
      Climate Technologies (Shenyang) Co. Ltd. 

China 

Emerson
      Climate Technologies (Shenyang) Refrigeration Co. Ltd. 

China 

Emerson
      Climate Technologies (Suzhou) Co., Ltd. 

China 

Emerson
      Climate Technologies (Suzhou) Research   Development Co.,
      Ltd. 

China 

Emerson
      Electric (Shenzhen) Co., Ltd. 

China 

Emerson
      eResource (Xi'an) Co., Ltd. 

China 

Emerson
      Fusite Electric (Shenzhen) Co. Ltd. 

China 

Emerson
      Junkang Enterprise (Shanghai) Co., Ltd. 

China 

Emerson
      Machinery Equipment (Shenzhen) Co., Ltd. 

China 

Emerson
      Network Power (Mianyang) Co., Ltd. 

China 

Emerson
      Network Power (Xi'an) Co., Ltd. 

China 

Emerson
      Network Power Connectivity Solutions (Shanghai) Co., Ltd. 

China 

Emerson
      Network Power Co., Ltd. (f/k/a/ Avansys) 

China 

Emerson
      Power Transmission (Zhangzhou) Co., Ltd. 

China 

Emerson
      Process Management Flow Technologies Co., Ltd. 

China 

Emerson
      Process Management Power   Water Solutions (Shanghai) Co.,
      Ltd. 

China 

Emerson
      Process Management (Tianjin) Valves Co., Ltd. 

China 

Emerson
      Process Management Valve Automation (Tianjin) Co., Ltd. 

China 

Emerson
      Professional Tools (Shanghai) Co., Ltd. 

China 

Emerson
      Trading (Shanghai) Co. Ltd. 

China 

Fisher
      Jeon Gas Equipment (Chengdu) Co., Ltd. 

China 

Fisher
      Regulators (Shanghai) Co., Ltd. 

China 

Leroy
      Somer Electro-Technique (Fuzhou) Co., Ltd. 

China 

Emerson
      Network Power (Jiangmen)  Co., Ltd. 

China 

Emerson
      Electric Korea Ltd. 

Korea 

Emerson
      Electric (M) Sdn Bhd 

Malaysia 

Emerson
      Electric Poland Sp. z.o.o. 

Poland 

FZN
      Marbaise LS Sp. z.o.o. 

Poland 

Emerson
      Energy Systems Sdn Bhd 

Malaysia 

Emerson
      Network Power Limited 

Nigeria 

Emerson
      Network Power (Philippines), Inc. 

Philippines 

Emerson
      Network Power (South Africa) (Pty) Ltd 

South
      Africa 

Emerson
      Network Power, S. A. 

Spain 

Jaure,
      S.A. 

Spain 

Emerson
      Panama S. de R.L. 

Panama 

Emerson
      Process Management Europe GmbH 

Switzerland 

Emerson
      Process Management Magyarorszag Kft. 

Hungary 

EXHIBIT
21 

      SUBSIDIARIES
AND AFFILIATES OF EMERSON ELECTRIC CO. 

      September
30, 2010 

LEGAL NAME  

JURISDICTION OF 

                                     INCORPORATION  

Emerson
      Process Management NV 

Belgium 

PI
      Components NV 

Belgium 

Emerson
      Puerto Rico, Inc. 

Puerto
      Rico 

Emerson
      (Thailand) Limited 

Thailand 

Emersub
      5 LLC 

Delaware 

Emersub
      Mexico, Inc. 

Nevada 

ClosetMaid
      Reynosa S. de R.L. de C.V. 

Mexico 

Copeland
      Scroll Compresores de Mexico S.A. de C.V. 

Mexico 

Daniel
      Measurement   Control, S. de R.L. de C.V. 

Mexico 

Emerpowsys,
      S. de R.L. de C.V. 

Mexico 

Emerson
      Electronic Connector and Components, S.A. de C.V. 

Mexico 

Emerson
      Network Power Embedded Computing, S. de R.L. de C.V. 

Mexico 

Emerson
      Tool and Appliance Company, S. de R.L. de C.V. 

Mexico 

Emerson
      Tool Company de Mexico S. de R.L. de C.V. 

Mexico 

Emersub
      1 LLC 

Delaware 

Intermetro
      de Mexico, S. de R.L. de C.V. 

Mexico 

Emersub
      XXXVI, Inc. 

Delaware 

Digital
      Appliance Controls (UK) Limited 

United
      Kingdom 

Control
      Techniques Ltd. 

United
      Kingdom 

Control
      Techniques GmbH 

Germany 

Reta
      Anlagenbau GmbH 

Germany 

SSB
      Group GmbH 

Germany 

SSB-Antriebstechnik-Verwaltungs-und
      Beteiligungsgesellschaft mbH 

Germany 

SSB
      Management GmbH 

Germany 

SSB-Antriebstechnik
      GmbH   Co. KG 

Germany 

SSB
      Wind Energy Technology (Qingdao) Co., Ltd. 

China 

Control
      Techniques Asia-Pacific Pte. Ltd. 

Singapore 

Control
      Techniques Drives (Malaysia) Sdn Bhd 

Malaysia 

Control
      Techniques Singapore Pte Limited 

Singapore 

Control
      Techniques Australia Pty Ltd. 

Australia 

Control
      Techniques Bermuda Limited 

Bermuda 

Control
      Techniques Drives Limited 

United
      Kingdom 

Control
      Techniques Dynamics Limited 

United
      Kingdom 

Evershed
      Powerotor Limited 

United
      Kingdom 

Moore
      Reed   Company Limited 

United
      Kingdom 

Control
      Techniques Southern Africa (Pty.) Limited 

South
      Africa 

Control
      Techniques SpA 

Italy 

Control
      Techniques Worldwide BV 

Netherlands 

Control
      Techniques AG 

Switzerland 

Control
      Techniques BV 

Netherlands 

Control
      Techniques Brno s.r.o. 

Czech
      Republic 

Control
      Techniques China Pte. Ltd. 

Hong
      Kong 

Control
      Techniques AS 

Denmark 

Control
      Techniques Endustriyel Control Sistemieri Sanayii Ve Ticaret
      A.S. 

Turkey 

Control
      Techniques India Limited 

India 

Control
      Techniques Elpro Automation Limited 

India 

DriveShop
      Limited 

United
      Kingdom 

Foray
      600 Limited 

United
      Kingdom 

Foray
      606 Limited 

United
      Kingdom 

Emerson
      Holding Company Limited 

United
      Kingdom 

Armory
      Blaise 

United
      Kingdom 

Asco
      Power Technologies Limited 

United
      Kingdom 

Bristol
      Babcock Limited 

United
      Kingdom 

Computational
      Systems Limited 

United
      Kingdom 

EXHIBIT
21 

      SUBSIDIARIES
AND AFFILIATES OF EMERSON ELECTRIC CO. 

      September
30, 2010 

LEGAL NAME  

JURISDICTION OF 

                               INCORPORATION  

Copeland
      Ltd. 

United
      Kingdom 

CSA
      Consulting Engineers, Ltd. 

United
      Kingdom 

El-O-Matic
      Limited 

United
      Kingdom 

Emerson
      Electric U.K. Limited 

United
      Kingdom 

Bray
      Lectroheat Limited 

United
      Kingdom 

Buehler
      Europe Limited 

United
      Kingdom 

BannerScientific
      Limited 

United
      Kingdom 

Buehler
      UK Limited 

United
      Kingdom 

Metaserve
      Limited 

United
      Kingdom 

Metallurgical
      Services Laboratories Limited 

United
      Kingdom 

Emerson
      FZE 

UAE 

Emerson
      Climate Technologies FZE 

UAE 

Emerson
      Network Power Limited 

United
      Kingdom 

Hiross
      Limited 

United
      Kingdom 

Liebert
      Swindon Ltd. 

United
      Kingdom 

Emerson
      Energy Systems (UK) Limited 

United
      Kingdom 

Emerson
      Network Power Connectivity Solutions Limited 

United
      Kingdom 

Midwest
      Microwave Limited 

United
      Kingdom 

Emerson
      Process Management Limited 

United
      Kingdom 

Emerson
      Process Management Distribution Limited 

United
      Kingdom 

Fisher-Rosemount
      Properties Limited 

United
      Kingdom 

Emerson
      Process Management Shared Services Limited 

United
      Kingdom 

F-R
      Properties (UK) Limited 

United
      Kingdom 

EMR
      Barnstaple Limited 

United
      Kingdom 

Emerson
      Process Management Services Limited 

United
      Kingdom 

Emerson
      UK Trustees Limited 

United
      Kingdom 

Fisher
      Controls Limited 

United
      Kingdom 

Farris
      Engineering Ltd. 

United
      Kingdom 

Fisher
      Governor Company Ltd. 

United
      Kingdom 

MDC
      Technology Limited 

United
      Kingdom 

MDC
      Technology Trustees Limited 

United
      Kingdom 

Mobrey
      Group Limited 

United
      Kingdom 

Mobrey
      Overseas Sales Limited 

United
      Kingdom 

Mobrey
      Sp. Z.o.o. 

Poland 

Mobrey
      SA 

France 

Mobrey
      Limited 

United
      Kingdom 

Oaksmere
      Refrigeration Design   Consultancy Limited 

United
      Kingdom 

Pactrol
      Controls Limited 

United
      Kingdom 

EMR
      Manufacturing (M) Sdn Bhd 

Malaysia 

EMR
      Worldwide B.V. 

Netherlands 

Emerson
      DHC B.V. 

Netherlands 

Emerson
      Electric (Thailand) Limited 

Thailand 

Emersub
      7 LLC 

Delaware 

Emersub
      8 LLC 

Delaware 

Emersub
      9 LLC 

Delaware 

Emersub
      10 LLC 

Delaware 

Emersub
      11 LLC 

Delaware 

Emersub
      12 LLC 

Delaware 

EMR
      (Mauritius) Ltd. 

Mauritius 

Trident
      Powercraft Private Limited 

India 

Emerson
      Electric Canada Limited 

Canada 

Emerson
      Holding Sweden AB 

Sweden 

Emerson
      Sweden AB 

Sweden 

Emerson
      Network Power Energy Systems AB 

Sweden 

EXHIBIT
21 

      SUBSIDIARIES
AND AFFILIATES OF EMERSON ELECTRIC CO. 

      September
30, 2010 

LEGAL NAME  

JURISDICTION OF 

                             INCORPORATION  

Rosemount
      Tank Radar AB 

Sweden 

Emerson
      Process Management Marine Solutions Singapore Pte. Ltd. 

Singapore 

Rosemount
      Tank Gauging India Pvt. Ltd. 

India 

Rosemount
      Tank Gauging Middle East SPC 

Bahrain 

SF-Control
      OY 

Finland 

Rutherfurd
      Acquisitions Limited 

United
      Kingdom 

Chloride
      Group Limited 

United
      Kingdom 

Advanced
      Design Electronics Limited 

United
      Kingdom 

CHC
      Holding Corporation 

Delaware 

Chloride
      Power Electronics Inc. 

Delaware 

UP
      Systems, Inc. 

Delaware 

Oneac
      Holding Corp. 

Delaware 

Oneac
      Corporation 

Illinois 

Oneac
      F.S.C., Inc. 

Virgin
      Islands 

Chloride
      Batteries Limited 

United
      Kingdom 

Chloride
      Electronics Limited 

United
      Kingdom 

Emergency
      Power Systems Plc 

United
      Kingdom 

Oneac
      Limited 

United
      Kingdom 

Chloride
      Espana, S.A.U. 

Spain 

Chloride
      France S.A. 

France 

AST
      Electronique Services S.A.S. 

France 

Automatismes
      Energie Electronique Systemes S.A.S. 

France 

France
      Onduleurs Ondyne SARL 

France 

Chloride
      Holdings UK Limited 

United
      Kingdom 

Chloride
      Limited 

United
      Kingdom 

Fleetness
      174 Limited 

United
      Kingdom 

Exide
      Electronics Limited 

United
      Kingdom 

Masterguard
      GmbH 

Germany 

Chloride
      Nominees Limited 

United
      Kingdom 

Chloride
      Pension Trust Limited 

United
      Kingdom 

Chloride
      Power Protection Limited 

Thailand 

Chloride
      Power Protection Pty. Ltd. 

Australia 

Chloride
      Supplies Limited 

United
      Kingdom 

Chloride
      Rus LLC 

Russia 

Chloride
      do Brasil Limitada 

Brazil 

Chloride
      Holdings Limited 

United
      Kingdom 

Chloride
      S.p.A. 

Italy 

Chloride
      Koexa S.A. 

Argentina 

Chloride
      Power Protection China Ltd. 

China 

Chloride
      Power Protection Polska Sp. z.o.o. 

Poland 

Chloride
      Secure Power Protection Philippines Inc. 

Philippines 

Chloride
      Singapore Pte. Limited 

Singapore 

CPE
      Chloride Power Electronics S.A. 

Spain 

Chloride
      Portugal - Artigos Electronicos, Limitada 

Portugal 

DB
      Power Electronics Private Limited 

India 

Eltek
      UPS Svenska AB 

Sweden 

Masterguard
      do Brasil Limitada 

Brazil 

Masterguard
      Guc Kaynaklari Limited Sirketi 

Turkey 

Newtech
      Technology Holdings Limited 

Hong
      Kong 

Power
      and Electronic Services Limited 

Ireland 

Chloride
      Phoenixtec Electronics (Shenzhen) Limited 

China 

Chloride
      U.K. Limited 

United
      Kingdom 

Continuous
      Power International Limited 

United
      Kingdom 

Continuous
      Power Limited 

United
      Kingdom 

EXHIBIT
21 

      SUBSIDIARIES
AND AFFILIATES OF EMERSON ELECTRIC CO. 

      September
30, 2010 

LEGAL NAME  

JURISDICTION OF 

                                           INCORPORATION  

Exide
      Limited 

United
      Kingdom 

Fleetness
      173 Limited 

United
      Kingdom 

Masterpower
      Electronics Limited 

Scotland 

Ondyne
      (UK) Limited 

United
      Kingdom 

Stocksave
      Limited 

United
      Kingdom 

Vertu
      Security Limited 

United
      Kingdom 

Viper
      Security Limited 

United
      Kingdom 

Bardic
      Emergency Systems Limited 

United
      Kingdom 

Chloride
      Investments Limited 

Guernsey 

Chloride
      Financing Limited 

United
      Kingdom 

Chloride
      Financing UK Limited 

United
      Kingdom 

Fisher-Rosemount
      Peru S.A.C. 

Peru 

F-R
      Tecnologias de Flujo, S.A. de C.V. 

Mexico 

Motoreductores
      U.S., S.A. de C.V. 

Mexico 

NetworkPower
      Ecuador S.A. 

Ecuador 

PT.
      Emerson  Indonesia 

Indonesia 

RAC
      Technologies (Israel) Ltd. 

Israel 

Rey-Lam,
      S. de R.L. de C.V. 

Mexico 

Termotec
      de Chihuahua S.A. de C.V. 

Mexico 

Tranmet
      Holdings Limited 

United
      Kingdom 

Tranmet
      Holdings B.V. 

Netherlands 

Industrial
      Group Metran CJSC 

Russia 

Metran-Export
      CJSC 

Russia 

Firma
      Metran LLC 

Russia 

EPMCO
      Holdings, Inc. 

Delaware 

Emerson
      Process Management Regulator Technologies, Inc. 

Delaware 

Fromex,
      S.A. de C.V. 

Mexico 

Fisher
      Controls International LLC 

Delaware 

Emerson
      Process Management Australia Pty Limited 

Australia 

Emerson
      Electric Australia Co. Pty. Ltd. 

Australia 

Emerson
      Process Management New Zealand Limited 

New
      Zealand 

Emerson
      Process Management China Ltd. 

Hong
      Kong 

Fisher
      Controles de Mexico, S.A. de C.V. 

Mexico 

Instrument
        Valve Services Company 

Delaware 

Nippon
      Fisher Co. Ltd. 

Japan 

Fisher-Rosemount
      Systems, Inc. 

Delaware 

Emerson
      Process Management LLLP 

Delaware 

Emerson
      Process Management Dominicana, S.A. 

Dominican
      Republic 

Emerson
      Process Management Power   Water Solutions, Inc. 

Delaware 

Emerson
      Process Management S.A.S. 

France 

Emerson
      Process Management, Lda 

Portugal 

Fiberconn
      Assemblies Morocco S.A.R.L. 

Morocco 

Fusite
      Corporation 

Ohio 

Emerson
      Japan Ltd. 

Japan 

Fusite
      Land Company 

Delaware 

General
      Equipment and Manufacturing Company, Inc. 

Kentucky 

TopWorx
      IC-Disc, Inc. 

Delaware 

TopWorx
      PTE Ltd. 

Singapore 

TopWorx
      RSA (Proprietary) Limited 

South
      Africa 

High
      Voltage Maintenance Corporation 

Ohio 

Hiross
      India Private Limited 

India 

Humboldt
      Hermetic Motor Corp. 

Delaware 

Woodstock
      Land Company, LLC 

Missouri 

Innovative
      Control Systems, Inc. 

New
      York 

EXHIBIT
21 

      SUBSIDIARIES
AND AFFILIATES OF EMERSON ELECTRIC CO. 

      September
30, 2010 

LEGAL NAME  

JURISDICTION OF 

                                                                                                                       INCORPORATION  

Kato
      Engineering Inc. 

Delaware 

Knaack
      LLC 

Delaware 

Kop-Flex,
      Inc. 

Delaware 

Kop-Flex
      Canada Limited 

Canada 

Metaloy,
      Inc. 

Massachusetts 

Metropolitan
      International, Inc. 

Nevada 

InterMetro
      Industries Corporation 

Nevada 

InterMetro
      Industries Corporation 

Delaware 

InterMetro
      Industries B.V. 

Netherlands 

Metro
      Industries, Inc. 

Nevada 

Metropolitan
      Wire (Canada) Ltd. 

Canada 

Metropolitan
      Wire Corporation 

Pennsylvania 

Motores
      Hermeticos del Sur, S.A. de C.V. 

Mexico 

Numatics,
      Incorporated 

Michigan 

Asco
      Numatics (Taiwan) Co., Ltd. 

Taiwan 

Numatics
      GmbH 

Germany 

Ultra
      Air Products, Inc. 

Michigan 

ProTeam,
      Inc. 

Idaho 

ProTeam
      (China) Limited 

Hong
      Kong 

Ridge
      Tool Europe NV 

Belgium 

Ridgid
      Scandinavia A/S 

Denmark 

Von
      Arx AG 

Switzerland 

Von
      Arx GmbH 

Germany 

Rosemount
      Tank Gauging North America, Inc. 

Texas 

Rutherfurd
      Acquisitions Limited 

United
      Kingdom 

TAG,
      Inc. 

Delaware 

Emersub
      6 LLC 

Delaware 

The
      Automation Group, L.P. 

Texas 

Termocontroles
      de Juarez S.A. de C.V. 

Mexico 

The
      Sulton Company, Inc. 

Delaware 

Tescom
      Corporation 

Minnesota 

Tescom,
      LLC 

Minnesota 

Tescom
      Europe Management GmbH 

Germany 

Tescom
      Europe GmbH   Co. KG 

Germany 

Thunderline
      Z, Inc. 

Delaware 

Transmisiones
      de Potencia Emerson S.A. de C.V. 

Mexico 

Tsubaki
      Emerson Co. 

Japan 

Tsubaki
      Everbest Gear (Tianjin) Co., Ltd. 

China 

Tsubaki
      Emerson Machinery (Shanghai) Co., Ltd. 

China 

Wiegand
      S.A. de C.V. 

Mexico 

</EX-21>

<EX-23>
 5
 v203504_ex23.htm
 EX-23

Exhibit
23 

CONSENT OF INDEPENDENT
REGISTERED PUBLIC ACCOUNTING FIRM  

The Board
of Directors of 

      Emerson
Electric Co.: 

We
consent to the incorporation by reference in Registration Statement Nos.
333-163718, 333-154362, 333-154361, 333-152917, 333-152916, 333-118589,
333-90240 and 333-46919 on Form S-8 and Registration Statement Nos. 333-155674,
333-110546, 333-52658, 333-84673 and 333-66865 on Form S-3 of Emerson Electric
Co. of our report dated November 23, 2010, with respect to the consolidated
balance sheets of Emerson Electric Co. as of September 30, 2010 and 2009, and
the related consolidated statements of earnings, equity, and cash flows for each
of the years in the three-year period ended September 30, 2010, and the
effectiveness of internal control over financial reporting as of September 30,
2010, which report is incorporated by reference in the September 30, 2010 annual
report on Form 10-K of Emerson Electric Co. 

Our
report refers to a change in the method of accounting for pension and other
postretirement benefits in 2009, and also refers to changes in methods of
accounting for business combinations, noncontrolling interests and earnings per
share in 2010.  

/s/ KPMG
LLP  

St.
Louis, Missouri 

      November
23, 2010 

</EX-23>

<EX-24>
 6
 v203504_ex24.htm
 EX-24

Exhibit
24 

POWER
OF ATTORNEY 

The undersigned members of the Board of
Directors and Executive Officers of Emerson Electric Co., a Missouri corporation
with principal offices at 8000 West Florissant Avenue, St. Louis, Missouri
63136, hereby appoint F. J. Dellaquila as their Attorney-in-Fact for the purpose
of signing Emerson Electric Co. s Securities and Exchange Commission Form 10-K
(and any and all Amendments thereto) for the fiscal year ended September 30,
2010. 

Dated:
October 5, 2010 

Signature  

Title  

/s/  D. N. Farr  

Chairman
      of the Board, Chief Executive 

D. N. Farr 

Officer
      and President 

/s/  W. J. Galvin  

Vice
      Chairman and Director 

W. J. Galvin 

/s/  R. J. Schlueter  

Vice
      President and Chief Accounting 

R. J. Schlueter 

Officer 

/s/  C. A. H. Boersig  

Director 

C. A. H. Boersig 

/s/  A. A. Busch, III  

Director 

A. A. Busch, III 

/s/  C. Fernandez G.  

Director 

C. Fernandez G. 

/s/  A. F. Golden  

Director 

A. F. Golden 

/s/  H. Green  

Director 

H. Green 

/s/  R. B. Horton  

Director 

R. B. Horton 

/s/  W. R. Johnson  

Director 

W. R. Johnson 

/s/  V. R. Loucks, Jr.  

Director 

V. R. Loucks, Jr. 

/s/  J. B. Menzer  

Director 

J. B. Menzer 

/s/  C. A.
      Peters  

Director 

C. A. Peters 

/s/  J. W. Prueher  

Director 

J. W. Prueher 

/s/  R. L. Ridgway  

Director 

R. L. Ridgway 

/s/  R. L. Stephenson  

Director 

R. L. Stephenson 

</EX-24>

<EX-31>
 7
 v203504_ex31.htm
 EX-31

Exhibit
31 

Certification 

I, D. N. Farr, certify
that:  

1.  I
have reviewed this annual report on Form 10-K of Emerson Electric
Co.; 

2.  Based
on my knowledge, this report does not contain any untrue statement of a material
fact or omit to state a material fact necessary to make the statements made, in
light of the circumstances under which such statements were made, not misleading
with respect to the period covered by this report; 

3.  Based
on my knowledge, the financial statements, and other financial information
included in this report, fairly present in all material respects the financial
condition, results of operations and cash flows of the registrant as of, and
for, the periods presented in this report; 

4.  The
registrant s other certifying officer and I are responsible for establishing and
maintaining disclosure controls and procedures (as defined in Exchange Act Rules
13a-15(e) and 15d-15(e)) and internal control over financial reporting (as
defined in Exchange Act Rules 13a-15(f) and 15d-15(f)) for the registrant and
have: 

a)  Designed
such disclosure controls and procedures, or caused such disclosure controls and
procedures to be designed under our supervision, to ensure that material
information relating to the registrant, including its consolidated subsidiaries,
is made known to us by others within those entities, particularly during the
period in which this report is being prepared; 

b)  Designed
such internal control over financial reporting, or caused such internal control
over financial reporting to be designed under our supervision, to provide
reasonable assurance regarding the reliability of financial reporting and the
preparation of financial statements for external purposes in accordance with
generally accepted accounting principles; 

c)  Evaluated
the effectiveness of the registrant s disclosure controls and procedures and
presented in this report our conclusions about the effectiveness of the
disclosure controls and procedures, as of the end of the period covered by this
report based on such evaluation; and 

d)  Disclosed
in this report any change in the registrant s internal control over financial
reporting that occurred during the registrant s most recent fiscal quarter (the
registrant s fourth fiscal quarter in the case of an annual report) that has
materially affected, or is reasonably likely to materially affect, the
registrant s internal control over financial reporting; and 

5.  The registrant s other
certifying officer and I have disclosed, based on our most recent evaluation of
internal control over financial reporting, to the registrant s auditors and the
audit committee of the registrant s board of directors:  

a)  All
significant deficiencies and material weaknesses in the design or operation of
internal control over financial reporting which are reasonably likely to
adversely affect the registrant s ability to record, process, summarize and
report financial information; and 

b)  Any
fraud, whether or not material, that involves management or other employees who
have a significant role in the registrant s internal control over financial
reporting. 

Date:
      November 23, 2010 

/s/  

D. N. Farr  

D.
      N. Farr 

Chairman
      of the Board and 

Chief
      Executive Officer 

Emerson
      Electric Co. 

Certification 

I, F. J.
Dellaquila, certify that: 

1.  I
have reviewed this annual report on Form 10-K of Emerson Electric
Co.; 

2.  Based
on my knowledge, this report does not contain any untrue statement of a material
fact or omit to state a material fact necessary to make the statements made, in
light of the circumstances under which such statements were made, not misleading
with respect to the period covered by this report; 

3.  Based
on my knowledge, the financial statements, and other financial information
included in this report, fairly present in all material respects the financial
condition, results of operations and cash flows of the registrant as of, and
for, the periods presented in this report; 

4.  The
registrant s other certifying officer and I are responsible for establishing and
maintaining disclosure controls and procedures (as defined in Exchange Act Rules
13a-15(e) and 15d-15(e)) and internal control over financial reporting (as
defined in Exchange Act Rules 13a-15(f) and 15d-15(f)) for the registrant and
have: 

a)  Designed
such disclosure controls and procedures, or caused such disclosure controls and
procedures to be designed under our supervision, to ensure that material
information relating to the registrant, including its consolidated subsidiaries,
is made known to us by others within those entities, particularly during the
period in which this report is being prepared; 

b)  Designed
such internal control over financial reporting, or caused such internal control
over financial reporting to be designed under our supervision, to provide
reasonable assurance regarding the reliability of financial reporting and the
preparation of financial statements for external purposes in accordance with
generally accepted accounting principles; 

c)  Evaluated
the effectiveness of the registrant s disclosure controls and procedures and
presented in this report our conclusions about the effectiveness of the
disclosure controls and procedures, as of the end of the period covered by this
report based on such evaluation; and 

d)  Disclosed
in this report any change in the registrant s internal control over financial
reporting that occurred during the registrant s most recent fiscal quarter (the
registrant s fourth fiscal quarter in the case of an annual report) that has
materially affected, or is reasonably likely to materially affect, the
registrant s internal control over financial reporting; and 

5.  The registrant s other
certifying officer and I have disclosed, based on our most recent evaluation of
internal control over financial reporting, to the registrant s auditors and the
audit committee of the registrant s board of
directors:   

a)  All
significant deficiencies and material weaknesses in the design or operation of
internal control over financial reporting which are reasonably likely to
adversely affect the registrant s ability to record, process, summarize and
report financial information; and  

b)  Any
fraud, whether or not material, that involves management or other employees who
have a significant role in the registrant s internal control over financial
reporting. 

Date:
      November 23, 2010 

/s/  

F. J. Dellaquila  

F.
      J. Dellaquila 

Senior
      Vice President and 

Chief
      Financial Officer 

Emerson
      Electric Co. 

</EX-31>

<EX-32>
 8
 v203504_ex32.htm
 EX-32

Exhibit
32 

CERTIFICATION
PURSUANT TO 

      EXCHANGE
ACT RULE 13a-14(b) AND 

      18 U.S.C.
SECTION 1350 

In connection with the Annual Report of
Emerson Electric Co. (the  Company ) on Form 10-K for the period ended September
30, 2010, as filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission on the date
hereof (the  Report ), I, D. N. Farr, certify, to the best of my knowledge,
pursuant to Exchange Act Rule 13a-14(b) and 18 U.S.C. Section 1350,
that: 

(1) 

The
      Report fully complies with the requirements of Section 13(a) or 15(d) of
      the Securities Exchange Act of 1934;
and 

(2)  

The information contained in the
      Report fairly presents, in all material respects, the financial condition
      and results of operations of the
  Company.  

/s/  

D. N. Farr  

D.
      N. Farr 

Chairman
      of the Board and 

Chief
      Executive Officer 

Emerson
      Electric Co. 

November
      23, 2010 

CERTIFICATION
PURSUANT TO 

      EXCHANGE
ACT RULE 13a-14(b) AND 

      18 U.S.C.
SECTION 1350 

In connection with the Annual Report of
Emerson Electric Co. (the  Company ) on Form 10-K for the period ended September
30, 2010, as filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission on the date
hereof (the  Report ), I, F. J. Dellaquila, certify, to the best of my
knowledge, pursuant to Exchange Act Rule 13a-14(b) and 18 U.S.C. Section 1350,
that: 

(1) 

The
      Report fully complies with the requirements of Section 13(a) or 15(d) of
      the Securities Exchange Act of 1934;
and 

(2)  

The information contained in the
      Report fairly presents, in all material respects, the financial condition
      and results of operations of the
  Company.  

/s/  

F. J. Dellaquila  

F.
      J. Dellaquila 

Senior
      Vice President and 

Chief
      Financial Officer 

Emerson
      Electric Co. 

November
      23, 2010 

</EX-32>

<EX-101.INS>
 9
 emr-20100930.xml
 XBRL INSTANCE DOCUMENT

</EX-101.INS>

<EX-101.SCH>
 10
 emr-20100930.xsd
 XBRL TAXONOMY EXTENSION SCHEMA DOCUMENT

</EX-101.SCH>

<EX-101.CAL>
 11
 emr-20100930_cal.xml
 XBRL TAXONOMY EXTENSION CALCULATION LINKBASE

</EX-101.CAL>

<EX-101.DEF>
 12
 emr-20100930_def.xml
 XBRL TAXONOMY EXTENSION DEFINITION LINKBASE

</EX-101.DEF>

<EX-101.LAB>
 13
 emr-20100930_lab.xml
 XBRL TAXONOMY EXTENSION LABEL LINKBASE

</EX-101.LAB>

<EX-101.PRE>
 14
 emr-20100930_pre.xml
 XBRL TAXONOMY EXTENSION PRESENTATION LINKBASE

</EX-101.PRE>

