<Header>
<FileStats>
    <FileName>20111122_10-K_edgar_data_32604_0001144204-11-066373_1.txt</FileName>
    <GrossFileSize>16446529</GrossFileSize>
    <NetFileSize>235353</NetFileSize>
    <NonText_DocumentType_Chars>4230452</NonText_DocumentType_Chars>
    <HTML_Chars>4823886</HTML_Chars>
    <XBRL_Chars>4932715</XBRL_Chars>
    <XML_Chars>2003325</XML_Chars>
    <N_Tables>69</N_Tables>
    <N_Exhibits>13</N_Exhibits>
</FileStats>
<SEC-Header>
0001144204-11-066373.hdr.sgml : 20111122
<ACCEPTANCE-DATETIME>20111121214104
ACCESSION NUMBER:		0001144204-11-066373
CONFORMED SUBMISSION TYPE:	10-K
PUBLIC DOCUMENT COUNT:		14
CONFORMED PERIOD OF REPORT:	20110930
FILED AS OF DATE:		20111122
DATE AS OF CHANGE:		20111121

FILER:

	COMPANY DATA:	
		COMPANY CONFORMED NAME:			EMERSON ELECTRIC CO
		CENTRAL INDEX KEY:			0000032604
		STANDARD INDUSTRIAL CLASSIFICATION:	ELECTRONIC & OTHER ELECTRICAL EQUIPMENT (NO COMPUTER EQUIP) [3600]
		IRS NUMBER:				430259330
		STATE OF INCORPORATION:			MO
		FISCAL YEAR END:			0930

	FILING VALUES:
		FORM TYPE:		10-K
		SEC ACT:		1934 Act
		SEC FILE NUMBER:	001-00278
		FILM NUMBER:		111220286

	BUSINESS ADDRESS:	
		STREET 1:		8000 W FLORISSANT AVE
		STREET 2:		P O BOX 4100
		CITY:			ST LOUIS
		STATE:			MO
		ZIP:			63136
		BUSINESS PHONE:		3145532000

	MAIL ADDRESS:	
		STREET 1:		8000 W. FLORISSANT
		STREET 2:		P.O. BOX 4100
		CITY:			ST LOUIS
		STATE:			MO
		ZIP:			63136

	FORMER COMPANY:	
		FORMER CONFORMED NAME:	EMERSON ELECTRIC MANUFACTUING CO
		DATE OF NAME CHANGE:	19730710

</SEC-Header>
</Header>

 0001144204-11-066373.txt : 20111122

10-K
 1
 v236587_10k.htm
 FORM 10-K

Unassociated Document 

UNITED STATES 

SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION 

Washington, D.C. 20549 

FORM 10-K 

x  ANNUAL REPORT PURSUANT TO SECTION 13 OR 15(d) OF THE SECURITIES 

EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934 

For the fiscal year ended September 30, 2011 

OR 

TRANSITION REPORT PURSUANT TO SECTION 13 OR 15(d) OF THE SECURITIES 

EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934 

For the transition period from ____________________ to __________________ 

Commission file number 1-278 

EMERSON ELECTRIC CO. 

(Exact name of registrant as specified in its charter) 

Registrant's telephone number, including area code:  (314) 553-2000  

Securities registered pursuant to Section 12(b) of the Act: 

Title of each class 

Name of each exchange on 

which registered 

Common Stock of $0.50 par value per share 

New York Stock Exchange 

Chicago Stock Exchange 

Securities registered pursuant to Section 12(g) of the Act:  None  

Indicate by check mark if the registrant is a well-known seasoned issuer, as defined in Rule 405 of the Securities Act. Yes  x  No     

Indicate by check mark if the registrant is not required to file reports pursuant to Section 13 or Section 15(d) of the Act. Yes     No  x  

Indicate by check mark whether the registrant (1) has filed all reports required to be filed by Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 during the preceding 12 months (or for such shorter period that the registrant was required to file such reports), and (2) has been subject to such filing requirements for the past 90 days. Yes  x  No     

Indicate by check mark whether the registrant has submitted electronically and posted on its corporate Web site, if any, every Interactive Data File required to be submitted and posted pursuant to Rule 405 of Regulation S-T ( 232.405 of this chapter) during the preceding 12 months (or for such shorter period that the registrant was required to submit and post such files) Yes  x  No     

Indicate by check mark if disclosure of delinquent filers pursuant to Item 405 of Regulation S-K ( 229.405 of this chapter) is not contained herein, and will not be contained, to the best of registrant's knowledge, in definitive proxy or information statements incorporated by reference in Part III of this Form 10-K or any amendment to this Form 10-K.  x  

Indicate by check mark whether the registrant is a large accelerated filer, an accelerated filer, a non-accelerated filer, or a smaller reporting company. See the definitions of  large accelerated filer,   accelerated filer  and  smaller reporting company  in Rule 12b-2 of the Exchange Act. 

Large accelerated filer  x                                                                                Accelerated filer     

Non-accelerated filer     (Do not check if a smaller reporting company)      Smaller reporting company     

Indicate by check mark whether the registrant is a shell company (as defined in Rule 12b-2 of the Act). 

Yes       No  x  

Aggregate market value of the voting stock held by nonaffiliates of the registrant as of close of business on March 31, 2011: $43.8 billion. 

Common stock outstanding at October 31, 2011: 735,749,636 shares. 

Documents Incorporated by Reference 

1.   

Portions of Emerson Electric Co. 2011 Annual Report to Stockholders (Parts I and II). 

2.   

Portions of Emerson Electric Co. Notice of 2012 Annual Meeting of Stockholders and Proxy Statement (Part III). 

2 

PART I 

Item 1.  Business  

Emerson was incorporated in Missouri in 1890, and has grown from a regional manufacturer of electric motors and fans into a diversified global technology company. Having expanded its product lines through internal growth and acquisitions, Emerson today is designing and supplying products and technology, and delivering engineering services and solutions in a wide range of industrial, commercial and consumer markets around the world. 

Emerson is organized into the business segments below, based on the nature of the products and services rendered (more complete descriptions follow): 

Process Management  - providing measurement, control and diagnostic capabilities for automated industrial processes producing items such as foods, fuels, medicines and power. 

Industrial Automation  - bringing integrated manufacturing solutions to diverse industries worldwide. 

Network Power  - providing power conditioning and reliability and environmental control to help keep telecommunication systems, data networks and other critical business applications continuously operating. 

Climate Technologies  - enhancing household and commercial comfort as well as food safety and energy efficiency through air conditioning and refrigeration technology. 

Tools and Storage  - providing tools for professionals and homeowners, home and commercial storage systems, and appliance solutions. 

Sales, earnings before interest and income taxes, and total assets attributable to each business segment for the three years ended September 30, 2011, are set forth in Note 16 of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements of the 2011 Annual Report, which note is hereby incorporated by reference. Percentage sales by segment in 2011 were Process Management 28 percent, Industrial Automation 21 percent, Network Power 27 percent, Climate Technologies 16 percent, and Tools and Storage 8 percent. Sales by geographic destination in 2011 were United States and Canada 45 percent, Asia 23 percent, Europe 22 percent, Latin America 5 percent, and Middle East/Africa 5 percent. Information with respect to acquisition and divestiture activities and rationalization of operations by Emerson is set forth in Notes 3 and 5 of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements of the 2011 Annual Report, which notes are hereby incorporated by reference. 

PROCESS MANAGEMENT 

The Process Management segment offers customers products and technology as well as engineering and project management services for precision measurement, control, monitoring and asset optimization of oil and gas reservoirs and power generating plants, or plants that process or treat such items as oil, natural gas and petrochemicals; food and beverages; pulp and paper; pharmaceuticals; and municipal water supplies. This array of products and services helps customers optimize their plant capabilities in the areas of plant safety and reliability, product quality and output. In 2011, sales by geographic destination for this segment were United States and Canada 38 percent, Asia 24 percent, Europe 22 percent, Latin America 7 percent, and Middle East/Africa 9 percent. 

3 

Process Management Systems and Software 

Process Management systems and software control plant processes by collecting and analyzing information from measurement devices in the plant, and then use that information to adjust valves, pumps, motors, drives and other control hardware for maximum product quality and process efficiency. Software capabilities also include upstream oil and gas reservoir simulation and modeling for production optimization. Emerson s process control systems can be extended wirelessly to support a mobile workforce with handheld tools/communicators, provide site-wide location tracking of people and assets, and enable video monitoring and communication with wireless field devices, thereby increasing the information available to operators. 

Measurement and Analytical Instrumentation 

Measurement instrumentation measures the physical properties of liquids or gases in a process stream, such as pressure, temperature, level, or rate and amount of flow, and communicates this information to a control system. Measurement technologies provided by Emerson include Coriolis direct mass flow, magnetic flow, vortex flow, ultrasonic flow, differential pressure, ultralow-flow fluid measurement, temperature sensors and radar-based tank gauging. Emerson measurement products are also often used in custody transfer applications, such as the transfer of gasoline from a storage tank to a tanker truck, where precise metering of the amount of fluid transferred helps ensure accurate asset management. Complementary products include onshore and subsea multi-phase meters, wetgas meters, downhole gauges and corrosion/erosion instruments. 

Analytical instrumentation analyzes the chemical composition of process fluids and emissions to enhance quality and efficiency, as well as environmental compliance. Emerson s analytical technologies include process gas chromatographs, in-situ oxygen analyzers, infrared gas and process fluid analyzers, combustion analyzers and systems, and analyzers that measure pH, conductivity and water quality. 

The Company also provides these same technologies with wireless communication capability, allowing customers to monitor processes or equipment that were previously not measurable (remote, moving/rotating) or not economical to measure due to the cost and difficulty of running wires in industrial process plants. 

Valves, Actuators and Regulators 

Control valves respond to commands from a control system to continuously and precisely modulate the flow of process fluids to provide maximum process efficiency and product quality. Emerson provides sliding stem valves, rotary valves, butterfly valves and related valve actuators and controllers. Emerson also provides a line of industrial and residential regulators, whose function is to reduce the pressure of fluids such as liquid natural gas and liquid petroleum gas for transfer from high-pressure supply lines to lower pressure systems. 

PlantWeb    Digital Plant Architecture 

PlantWeb   digital plant architecture combines the technologies described above with the advantages of  intelligent  plant devices (valves and measurement instruments that have advanced diagnostic capabilities), open communication standards (non-proprietary wired and wireless digital protocols allowing the plant devices and the control system to  talk  with one another) and integrated modular software, not only to better control the process but also to collect and analyze valuable information about plant assets and processes. This capability gives customers the ability to detect or predict changes in equipment and process performance and the associated impact on plant operations. PlantWeb   architecture provides the insight to improve plant availability and safety, and also furnishes a platform to continually improve asset management and standards compliance, and to reduce startup, operations and maintenance costs. 

4 

Industry Services and Solutions 

Process Management s array of process automation and asset optimization services can improve automation project implementation time and costs, increase process availability and productivity, and reduce total cost of ownership. Global industry centers offer engineering and project management services to help customers extract maximum performance and reliability from their process equipment and automation assets. These centers serve industries such as oil and gas, pulp and paper, chemical, power, food and beverage, and life sciences. They also assist customers in diagnosing equipment problems and plant inefficiencies. 

Distribution 

The principal worldwide distribution channel for the Process Management segment is a direct sales force, although a network of independent sales representatives, and to a lesser extent, independent distributors purchasing these products for resale are also utilized. Approximately half of sales in the United States are made through a direct sales force with the remainder primarily through independent sales representatives. In Europe and Asia, sales are primarily made through a direct sales force with the remainder split evenly between independent sales representatives and distributors. 

Brands 

Service/trademarks and trade names within the Process Management segment include Emerson Process Management, AMS Suite, Baumann, Bettis, Bristol, CSI, Damcos, Daniel, DeltaV, EIM, El-O-Matic, Enable, Epro, Fisher, Go Switch, Guardian, Micro Motion, Net Safety, Ovation, PlantWeb, RMS, ROC, Rosemount, Roxar, Smart Process, SureService, Tescom, TopWorx and Valvetop. 

INDUSTRIAL AUTOMATION 

The Industrial Automation segment provides integrated manufacturing solutions to our customers at the source of manufacturing their own products. Products include motors, power generating alternators, power transmission solutions, fluid controls and materials joining equipment. Through these offerings, the Company brings technology and enhanced quality to the customer s final product. In 2011, sales by geographic destination for this segment were United States and Canada 39 percent, Asia 16 percent, Europe 38 percent, Latin America 3 percent, and Middle East/Africa 4 percent. 

Motors and Drives 

Industrial Automation provides a broad line of drives and electric motors that are used in a wide variety of manufacturing operations and products, including production assembly lines, escalators in shopping malls and supermarket checkout stations. Products in this category include alternating current (AC) and direct current (DC) electrical variable speed drives, servo motors, pump motors, drive control systems, integral horsepower motors (1 HP and above), fractional horsepower motors (less than 1 HP), hermetic motors and gear drives. 

Power Generation 

Power generation includes low, medium and high voltage alternators for use in diesel and gas powered generator sets, as well as high frequency alternators, AC motor/generator sets, traction generators, wind power generators, wind turbine pitch control systems and solar photovoltaic converters. 

Power Transmission 

Power transmission products include belt and chain drives, helical and worm gearing, gear motors, motor sheaves, pulleys, mounted and unmounted bearings, couplings, chains and sprockets. They are used to transmit power mechanically in a wide range of manufacturing and material handling operations and products. Our design and application experience enable us to provide both standard and customized automation and power transmission solutions to our customers. 

5 

Fluid Power and Fluid Control 

Products in this category control and power the flow of fluids (liquids and gases) in manufacturing operations such as automobile assembly, food processing, textile manufacturing and petrochemical processing. They include solenoid and pneumatic valves, valve position indicators, pneumatic cylinders, air preparation equipment, and pressure, vacuum and temperature switches. 

Materials Joining and Precision Cleaning 

The Company supplies both plastics joining technologies and equipment, and metal welding and joining processes to a diversified manufacturing customer base, including automotive, medical devices and toys. The Company also provides precision cleaning and liquid processing solutions to industrial and commercial manufacturers. Products include ultrasonic joining and cleaning equipment; linear and orbital vibration welding equipment; systems for hot plate welding, spin and laser welding equipment; and aqueous, semi-aqueous and vapor cleaning systems. 

Electrical Distribution 

Emerson s majority-owned EGS Electrical Group joint venture with SPX Corporation manufactures a broad line of components for current- and noncurrent-carrying electrical distribution devices. These products include conduit and cable fittings, plugs and receptacles, industrial lighting, and enclosures and controls. Products in this category are used in hazardous, industrial, commercial and construction environments, such as oil and gas drilling and production sites, pulp and paper mills and petrochemical plants. 

Distribution 

On a worldwide basis, the primary distribution channel for the Industrial Automation segment is through direct sales forces, including to original equipment manufacturers. Independent distributors constitute the next significant sales channel, mostly to reach end users. To a lesser extent, independent sales representatives are utilized, particularly for electrical distribution products in the United States. 

Brands 

Service/trademarks and trade names within the Industrial Automation segment include Emerson Industrial Automation, Appleton, ASCO, ASCO Joucomatic, ASCO Numatics, Branson Ultrasonics, Browning, Control Techniques, Emerson Power Transmission, Kato Engineering, Kop-Flex, Leroy Somer, McGill, Morse, O-Z/Gedney, SSB Wind Systems, System Plast and Trident. 

NETWORK POWER 

The Network Power segment designs, manufactures, installs and maintains products providing  grid to chip  electric power conditioning, power reliability and environmental control for telecommunications networks, data centers and other critical applications, and also provides comprehensive data center infrastructure management solutions. Products in this segment include uninterruptible power systems, embedded power supplies, embedded computing systems, precision cooling, inbound power systems, integrated data center monitoring, and control devices and software, plus 24-hour service. In 2011, sales by geographic destination for this segment were United States and Canada 39 percent, Asia 33 percent, Europe 19 percent, Latin America 6 percent, and Middle East/Africa 3 percent. 

Power Systems 

Emerson supplies uninterruptible AC and DC power systems, which provide reliable, conditioned power to telecommunication networks, data centers and other critical equipment in the event of a blackout or line surges and spikes. Power Systems  products range from stand-alone units to complete systems incorporating rectifiers, distribution units, surge protection, batteries and system supervision. 

6 

Embedded Computing and Power 

Embedded computing designs and develops embedded computer systems for original equipment manufacturers and systems integrators serving telecommunications, defense, aerospace, medical and industrial automation end markets. Products range from communication platforms, blades and modules to enabling software and professional services. 

Embedded power supplies are installed by original equipment manufacturers to convert or condition power for microprocessors and peripherals in a wide range of telecommunication, health care, computer and industrial applications using standard or custom AC/DC or DC/DC designs. They are also used in consumer products for chargers and power adaptors. 

Precision Cooling 

Precision cooling products provide temperature and humidity control for computers, telecommunications and other sensitive equipment. These products range from 14,000 to 4 million BTUs in capacity and are available in up-flow, down-flow and overhead configurations. 

Inbound Power Systems 

Inbound power technology provides reliable power systems which automatically transfer critical application loads from a utility to emergency backup generators in the event of a blackout or brownout. Products include automatic transfer switches, paralleling and synchronizing gear and related distribution equipment and control systems. 

Data Center Infrastructure Management 

The Company provides comprehensive data center management solutions through server access technologies that enable access, monitoring and control of the information technology infrastructure and provide linkage with data center operations. 

Connectivity Solutions 

Connectivity products serve the needs of the wireless communications, telephone and data network, CATV, defense, security systems and health care industries and other industrial customers globally with a broad range of radio frequency, microwave and fiber optic interconnect components and assemblies. 

Service and Site Operations 

Network Power staffs Energy Operation Centers in more than 30 countries, and deploys field service personnel worldwide to assist customers in managing their network support systems. Services include on-site operations management, energy consumption monitoring, preventive maintenance, electrical testing, remote monitoring and management, and 24-hour service capability. 

Distribution 

Network Power segment sales are primarily through worldwide direct sales forces, particularly in Europe and Asia. The remainder of sales is handled by independent sales representatives, particularly in the United States, and independent distributors. 

Brands 

Service/trademarks and trade names within the Network Power segment include Emerson Network Power, Aperture, Artesyn, ASCO Power Technologies, Astec, Avocent, Chloride, Kn rr, Liebert, Liebert Services, NetXtend, Netsure, Semflex, Stratos and Trompeter. 

7 

CLIMATE TECHNOLOGIES 

The Climate Technologies segment provides products and services for all areas of the climate control industry, including residential heating and cooling, commercial air conditioning, and commercial and industrial refrigeration. Our technology enables homeowners and businesses to better manage their heating, air conditioning and refrigeration systems for improved control and lower energy costs. This segment also provides services that digitally control and remotely monitor refrigeration units in grocery stores and other food distribution outlets to enhance freshness and food safety. In 2011, sales by geographic destination for this segment were United States and Canada 54 percent, Asia 23 percent, Europe 13 percent, Latin America 6 percent, and Middle East/Africa 4 percent. 

Residential and Commercial Heating and Air Conditioning 

The Company provides a full range of heating and air conditioning products that help reduce operational and energy costs and create comfortable environments in all types of buildings. These products include reciprocating and scroll air conditioning compressors, including ultra-efficient residential scroll compressors with two stages of cooling capacity as well as variable speed scroll compressors; standard and programmable thermostats; monitoring equipment and electronic controls for gas and electric heating systems; gas valves for furnaces and water heaters; ignition systems for furnaces; sensors and thermistors for home appliances; and temperature sensors and controls. 

Commercial and Industrial Refrigeration 

Our technology is incorporated into equipment to refrigerate food and beverages in supermarkets, convenience stores, food service operations and refrigerated trucks and transport containers. Climate Technologies refrigeration products are also used in a wide variety of industrial applications, including medical applications, food processing and cold storage. These products include reciprocating, scroll and screw compressors; precision flow controls; system diagnostics and controls that provide precise temperature management; and environmental control systems. 

Services and Solutions 

Services and solutions enable global customers to optimize the performance of facilities including large-scale retailers, supermarkets, convenience stores and food services facilities. By providing expertise in air conditioning, refrigeration and lighting control, Climate Technologies performs as a complete facility manager for its customers. The Company s expertise allows customers to reduce energy and maintenance costs, thereby improving overall facility uptime. In addition to industry-leading controls, products include facility design and project management, commissioning services, facility monitoring services, and energy modeling and consultancy. 

Distribution 

Climate Technologies segment sales, primarily to original equipment manufacturers and end users, are made predominately through worldwide direct sales force networks. The remaining sales are primarily through independent distributor networks throughout the world. 

Brands 

Service/trademarks and trade names within the Climate Technologies segment include Emerson Climate Technologies, Clive Samuels   Associates, Computer Process Controls, Copeland, Design Services Network, Dixell, Emerson Climate Technologies Distribution Services, Emerson Climate Technologies Educational Services, Emerson Retail Services, Fusite, Therm-O-Disc, Vilter and White-Rodgers. 

8 

TOOLS AND STORAGE 

Emerson s Tools and Storage segment includes a broad range of tools, storage products and appliance solutions. In 2011, sales by geographic destination for this segment were United States and Canada 84 percent, Asia 4 percent, Europe 7 percent, Latin America 3 percent, and Middle East/Africa 2 percent. 

Professional and Do-It-Yourself Tools 

Our pipe-working tools are used by plumbing and mechanical professionals to install and repair piping systems. These tools include pipe wrenches, pipe cutters, pipe threading and roll grooving equipment; a time-saving system that joins tubing through mechanical crimping; drain cleaners; diagnostic systems including closed-circuit television pipe inspection and locating equipment; and tubing tools. Other professional tools include water jetters, wet-dry vacuums, commercial vacuums, rolling storage boxes, truck work boxes, bolt cutters, and van and truck ladder racks. Do-it-yourself tools, available at home improvement retail outlets, include drain cleaning equipment, pipe and tube working tools, and wet-dry vacuums. 

Storage Solutions 

Emerson provides a wide variety of freestanding, fixed and mobile storage products for residential, commercial, health care and food service applications. Our products for the home include wall-mounted and freestanding shelving systems, cabinet and closet organizers, home office storage, and drawer systems and containers, available in wire, stainless steel and laminate. Our storage solutions also help commercial customers utilize space in the most efficient manner. These solutions include storage and display shelving, stock-picking and kitting carts, cabinets, totes, bins, workstations, and merchandising and inventory storage racks. Products provided to the health care industry assist in medical response and treatment; they include emergency and operating room carts, medication carts, polymer and wire shelving systems, and sterile worktables. Our food service equipment helps meet the storage needs of the food service and hospitality industries, such as restaurants and hotels. This equipment includes polymer and wire storage systems, busing carts, pan and tray racks, transport carts and workstations. 

Appliances and Components 

Emerson provides a number of appliance solutions, including residential and commercial food waste disposers, ceiling fans, instant hot water dispensers and compact electric water heaters. 

Distribution 

The principal worldwide distribution channels for the Tools and Storage segment are distributors and direct sales forces. Professional tools are sold almost exclusively worldwide through distributors. Independent sales representatives are utilized to a lesser extent, particularly for storage solutions. Appliance solutions are sold through direct sales force networks and distributors. 

Brands 

Service/trademarks and trade names within the Tools and Storage segment include Emerson, Emerson Appliance Solutions, Emerson Professional Tools, Emerson Storage Solutions, ClosetMaid, Flo Healthcare, InSinkErator, Knaack, Lionville, MedDispense, METRO, ProTeam, RIDGID and Weather Guard. 

9 

PRODUCTION 

Emerson utilizes various production operations and methods. The principal production operations are electronics assembly, metal stamping, forming, casting, machining, welding, plating, heat treating, painting and assembly. In addition, Emerson uses specialized production operations, including automatic and semiautomatic testing, automated material handling and storage, ferrous and nonferrous machining, and special furnaces for heat treating and foundry applications. Management believes the equipment, machinery and tooling used in these processes are of modern design and well maintained. 

RAW MATERIALS 

Emerson's major requirements for basic raw materials include steel, copper, cast iron, electronics, rare earth metals, aluminum, brass, and to a lesser extent, plastics and other petroleum-based chemicals. Emerson seeks to secure multiple sources of supply for each of its major requirements in order to avoid significant dependence on any one or a few suppliers. However, the supply of materials or other items could be disrupted by natural disasters or other events. Despite market price volatility for certain requirements and materials pricing pressures at some of our businesses, the raw materials and various purchased components needed for the Company s products have generally been available in sufficient quantities. 

PATENTS, TRADEMARKS AND LICENSES 

The Company maintains an intellectual property portfolio it has developed or acquired over a number of years, including patents, trademarks and licenses. The Company also continues to develop or acquire new intellectual property on an ongoing basis. New patent applications are continuously filed to protect the Company s ongoing research and development activities. The Company s trademark registrations may be renewed and their duration is dependent upon national laws and trademark use. While this proprietary intellectual property portfolio is important to the Company in the aggregate, management does not regard any of its segments as being dependent on any single patent, trademark registration or license. 

BACKLOG 

The Company s estimated consolidated order backlog was $6,030 million and $5,616 million at September 30, 2011 and 2010, respectively. The vast majority of the September 30, 2011 consolidated backlog amount is expected to be shipped within one year. The estimated backlog by business segment at September 30, 2011 and 2010 follows (dollars in millions): 

COMPETITION 

Emerson's businesses operate in markets that are highly competitive. The Company competes based on product performance, quality, service and/or price across the industries and markets served. A significant element of the Company's competitive strategy is to deliver solutions to our customers by manufacturing high quality products at the best relevant global cost. Although no single company competes directly with Emerson in all of the Company's product lines, various companies compete in one or more product lines and the number of competitors varies by product line. Some competitors have substantially greater sales, 

10 

assets and financial resources than Emerson and the Company also competes with many smaller companies. Management believes Emerson has a market leadership position in many of its product lines. 

RESEARCH AND DEVELOPMENT 

Costs associated with Company-sponsored research and development activities were $555 million, $473 million and $460 million in 2011, 2010 and 2009, respectively. 

ENVIRONMENT 

The Company's manufacturing locations generate waste, the treatment, storage, transportation and disposal of which are subject to federal, state, foreign and/or local laws and regulations relating to protection of the environment. Compliance with laws regulating the discharge of materials into the environment or otherwise relating to protection of the environment has not had a material effect upon Emerson's capital expenditures, earnings or competitive position. The Company does not anticipate having material capital expenditures for environmental control facilities during the next fiscal year. 

EMPLOYEES 

Emerson and its subsidiaries had an average of approximately 133,200 employees during 2011. Management believes that the Company's employee relations are favorable. Some of the Company's employees are represented under collective bargaining agreements, but none of these agreements is considered significant. See Note 5 of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements of the 2011 Annual Report, which note is hereby incorporated by reference, for further information. 

DOMESTIC AND FOREIGN OPERATIONS 

International sales were $14,322 million in 2011, $11,938 million in 2010 and $11,416 million in 2009, including U.S. exports of $1,520 million, $1,317 million and $1,211 million in 2011, 2010 and 2009, respectively. Although there are additional risks attendant to foreign operations, such as possible nationalization of facilities, currency fluctuations and restrictions on the movement of funds, Emerson's financial position has not been materially affected thereby to date. See Note 16 of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements of the 2011 Annual Report, which note is hereby incorporated by reference, for further information with respect to foreign operations. 

INTERNET ACCESS 

Emerson's Forms 10-K, 10-Q, 8-K and all amendments to those reports are available without charge through the Company s website on the Internet as soon as reasonably practicable after they are electronically filed with, or furnished to, the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC). They may be accessed as follows: www.Emerson.com, Investor Relations, SEC Filings. Information on Emerson s website does not constitute part of this Form 10-K. 

The information set forth under,  Item 1A.  Risk Factors  is hereby incorporated by reference. 

11 

Item 1A.  Risk Factors  

Investing in our securities involves risks. We may amend or supplement the risk factors described below from time to time by other reports we file with the SEC in the future. 

We Operate in Businesses That Are Subject to Competitive Pressures That Could Affect Prices or Demand for Our Products 

Our businesses operate in markets that are highly competitive, and we compete on the basis of product performance, quality, service and/or price across the industries and markets served. A significant element of our competitive strategy is to deliver solutions to our customers by manufacturing high quality products at the best relevant global cost. Various companies compete with us in one or more product lines and the number of competitors varies by product line. Some of our competitors have substantially greater sales, assets and financial resources than our Company and we also compete with many smaller companies. Competitive pressures could adversely affect prices or customer demand for our products, impacting our sales or profit margins, and/or resulting in a loss of market share. 

Our Operating Results Depend in Part on Continued Successful Research, Development and Marketing of New and/or Improved Products and Services, and There Can Be No Assurance That We Will Continue to Successfully Introduce New Products and Services 

The success of new and improved products and services depends on their initial and continued acceptance by our customers. Our businesses are affected by varying degrees of technological change and corresponding shifts in customer demand, which result in unpredictable product transitions, shortened life cycles and increased importance of being first to market with new products and services. We may experience difficulties or delays in the research, development, production and/or marketing of new products and services which may negatively impact our operating results and prevent us from recouping or realizing a return on the investments required to continue to bring new products and services to market. 

We Engage in Acquisitions, and May Encounter Difficulties in Integrating These Businesses and Therefore We May Not Realize the Anticipated Benefits of the Acquisitions 

We are a company that, from time to time, seeks to grow through strategic acquisitions. In 2011 and in past years, we have made various acquisitions and entered into joint venture arrangements intended to complement or expand our business, and may continue to do so in the future (see Note 3 of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements of the 2011 Annual Report, which note is hereby incorporated by reference). The success of these transactions will depend on our ability to integrate assets and personnel acquired in these transactions and to cooperate with our strategic partners. We may encounter difficulties in integrating acquisitions with our operations, and in managing strategic investments. Furthermore, we may not realize the degree, or timing, of benefits we anticipate when we first enter into a transaction. Any of the foregoing could adversely affect our business and results of operations. 

Access to Funding Through the Capital Markets Is Essential to the Execution of Our Business Plan and if We Are Unable to Maintain Such Access We Could Experience a Material Adverse Effect on Our Business and Financial Results 

Our ability to invest in our businesses, make strategic acquisitions and refinance maturing debt obligations requires access to the capital markets and sufficient bank credit lines to support short-term borrowings. Volatility in the capital markets may increase costs associated with issuing commercial paper or other debt instruments, or affect the Company s ability to access those markets. If we are unable to continue to access the capital markets, we could experience a material adverse effect on our business and financial results. If our customers, suppliers and financial institutions are unable to access the capital markets to meet their commitments to the Company, our business could be adversely impacted. 

12 

We Use a Variety of Raw Materials and Components in Our Businesses, and Significant Shortages or Price Increases Could Increase Our Operating Costs and Adversely Impact the Competitive Positions of Our Products 

Our major requirements for raw materials include steel, copper, cast iron, electronics, rare earth metals, aluminum, brass and, to a lesser extent, plastics and other petroleum-based chemicals. Emerson seeks multiple sources of supply for each of its major requirements in order to avoid significant dependence on any one or a few suppliers. However, the supply of materials or other items could be disrupted by natural disasters or other events. Significant shortages or price increases could impact the prices our affected businesses charge, their operating costs and the competitive position of their products and services, which could adversely affect our results of operations. While we monitor market prices of the commodities we require and attempt to reduce price exposure through hedging activities, this risk could adversely affect our operating results. 

Our Operations Depend on Production Facilities Throughout the World, a Majority of Which Are Located Outside the United States and Subject to Increased Risks of Disrupted Production Causing Delays in Shipments and Loss of Customers and Revenue 

We manage businesses with manufacturing facilities worldwide, a majority of which are located outside the United States, and also source certain materials internationally. Emerging market sales now represent over one-third of total sales and serving a global customer base requires that we place more materials sourcing and production in emerging markets to capitalize on market opportunities and maintain our best-cost position. Our and our suppliers  international production facilities and operations could be disrupted by a natural disaster, labor strife, war, political unrest, terrorist activity or public health concerns, particularly in emerging countries that are not well-equipped to handle such occurrences. 

Our manufacturing facilities abroad also may be more susceptible to changes in laws and policies in host countries and economic and political upheaval than our domestic facilities. Any such disruption could cause delays in shipments of products and the loss of sales and customers, and insurance proceeds may not adequately compensate us. 

Our Substantial Sales Abroad Subject Us to Economic Risk as Our Results of Operations May Be Adversely Affected by Foreign Currency Fluctuations and Changes in Local Government Regulations and Policies 

We sell, manufacture, engineer and purchase products in overseas markets. A significant portion of our sales is outside the United States, and we expect sales from non-U.S. markets to continue to represent a significant portion of our total sales. International sales and operations are subject to changes in local government regulations and policies, including those related to tariffs and trade barriers, investments, taxation, exchange controls, and repatriation of earnings, which could adversely affect our results. Changes in the relative values of currencies occur from time to time and have affected our operating results and could do so in the future. While we monitor our exchange rate exposures and attempt to reduce this exposure through hedging activities, this risk could adversely affect our operating results. 

Recessions, Adverse Market Conditions or Downturns in the End Markets We Serve May Negatively Impact Segment Revenues and Operating Results 

Segment revenues, operating results and cash flows have varied in the past and may be exposed to significant volatility from quarter to quarter in the future due to changes in general economic conditions, recessions or adverse conditions in the end markets we serve. These changes could adversely impact overall sales, operating results and cash flows, which in turn could trigger impairment of goodwill or other long-lived assets due to the fair value of such assets falling below the Company s carrying value. Moreover, during economic downturns we may undertake more extensive rationalization actions and therefore incur higher rationalization expense during such periods. If our rationalization actions are not sufficiently effective or if we must incur rationalization costs beyond what we anticipate, we may not be able to achieve our anticipated operating results. 

13 

We Are Subject to Litigation and Environmental Regulations That Could Adversely Impact Our Operating Results 

We are, and may in the future be, a party to a number of legal proceedings and claims, including those involving product liability and environmental matters, several of which claim, or may in the future claim, significant damages. Given the inherent uncertainty of litigation, we can offer no assurance that existing litigation or a future adverse development will not have a material adverse impact. We also are subject to various laws and regulations relating to environmental protection and the discharge of materials into the environment, and we could incur substantial costs as a result of the noncompliance with or liability for cleanup or other costs or damages under environmental laws. 

Item 1B.  Unresolved Staff Comments  

None. 

Item 2. Properties  

At September 30, 2011, Emerson had approximately 235 manufacturing locations worldwide, of which approximately 155 were located outside the United States, primarily in Europe and Asia, and to a lesser extent in Canada and Latin America. The approximate numbers of manufacturing locations by business segment are: Process Management, 60; Industrial Automation, 75; Network Power, 45; Climate Technologies, 35; and Tools and Storage, 20. The majority of the locations are owned, with the remainder occupied under lease. The Company considers its facilities suitable and adequate for the purposes for which they are used. 

Item 3. Legal Proceedings  

The information regarding legal proceedings set forth in Note 12 of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements of the 2011 Annual Report is hereby incorporated by reference. 

Item 4. [Removed and Reserved]  

14 

Executive Officers of the Registrant 

The following sets forth certain information as of November 21, 2011 with respect to Emerson's executive officers. The Fiscal Year column indicates the first year the executive served as an officer of the Company. These officers have been elected or appointed to terms which expire February 7, 2012: 

*Also chairman of the Executive Committee of the Board of Directors. 

There are no family relationships among any of the executive officers and directors. 

David N. Farr has been Chief Executive Officer since October 2000, was appointed Chairman of the Board in September 2004, and also served as President from November 2005 to October 2010. Craig W. Ashmore was appointed Executive Vice President - Planning and Development in October 2009. Prior to his current position, Mr. Ashmore was Senior Vice President - Planning and Development from October 2004 to September 2009 and Group Vice President from 2003 to 2004. Frank J. Dellaquila was appointed Chief Financial Officer in February 2010. Prior to his current position, Mr. Dellaquila was Senior Vice President - Finance and Controller from August 2009 to February 2010 and Senior Vice President - Acquisitions and Development from 2004 to 2009. Walter J. Galvin was appointed Vice Chairman in October 2009. Prior to his current position, Mr. Galvin was Chief Financial Officer from 1993 to February 2010, Senior Executive Vice President from October 2004 to September 2009 and Executive Vice President from February 2000 to October 2004. Edward L. Monser was appointed President in October 2010 and has been Chief Operating Officer since November 2001. Charles A. Peters has been Senior Executive Vice President since October 2000. Richard J. Schlueter was appointed Controller in October 2011. He has been Vice President Accounting since 1999 and was also appointed Chief Accounting Officer in February 2003. Frank L. Steeves was appointed Executive Vice President in October 2011. He was appointed Senior Vice President, Secretary and General Counsel in March 2007, prior to which he was Vice Chairman of the Milwaukee-based law firm of von Briesen   Roper, S.C., which has provided legal services to the Company since 2001. Mr. Steeves joined von Briesen and Roper as a partner in 2001, and became Vice Chairman of the firm in 2004. 

15 

PART II 

Item 5. Market for Registrant's Common Equity, Related Stockholder Matters and Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities  

Information regarding the market for the Company's common stock, quarterly market price ranges and dividend payments is set forth in Note 18 of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements of the 2011 Annual Report, which note is hereby incorporated by reference. There were approximately 23,765 stockholders of record at September 30, 2011. 

The Company s Board of Directors authorized the repurchase of up to 80 million shares under the May 2008 program. 

Item 6. Selected Financial Data  

Years ended September 30 

(dollars in millions, except per share amounts) 

The following businesses are classified as discontinued operations: heating elements for 2011 only, appliance motors and U.S. commercial and industrial motors for 2007 through 2010, LANDesk for 2010 only, European appliance motors and pumps for 2007 and 2008, and Brooks Instrument flow meters and flow controls for 2008 only. See Note 3 of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements of the 2011 Annual Report, which note is hereby incorporated by reference, for information regarding the Company's acquisition and divestiture activities. 

16 

Item 7. Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations  

Information appearing under  Results of Operations,   Business Segments,   Financial Position, Capital Resources and Liquidity,   Critical Accounting Policies,  and the "Safe Harbor Statement" in the 2011 Annual Report are hereby incorporated by reference. 

Fiscal 2012 Outlook  

The Company achieved strong sales and earnings results in 2011 and is well positioned moving into 2012, despite a weakening trend in business conditions. Underlying sales for fiscal year 2012 are expected to increase in the range of 5 percent to 7 percent, which excludes an estimated 1 percent unfavorable impact from foreign currency translation. Net sales for the year are forecast to be in the range of positive 4 percent to 6 percent compared with 2011 sales of $24.2 billion. The Company also expects operating profit margin of approximately 18 percent (excluding approximately 2.5 percent for other deductions, net and interest) and pretax margin of approximately 15.5 percent. Earnings per share growth is expected in the range of 8 percent to 12 percent. 

Process Management sources electrical and electronic components for some products from areas in Thailand that have suffered significant flood damage. The Company is implementing contingency plans and working with suppliers and customers to minimize the impact of supply disruptions. These disruptions will have a near-term impact, but do not affect the fiscal year 2012 guidance announced previously and repeated above. 

Non-GAAP Financial Measures  

To supplement Emerson s financial information presented in accordance with U.S. generally accepted accounting principles (U.S. GAAP), management uses certain  non-GAAP financial measures,  as such term is defined in Regulation G under the rules of the SEC, to clarify and enhance understanding of past performance and prospects for the future. Generally, a non-GAAP financial measure is a numerical measure of a company s operating performance, financial position or cash flows that excludes or includes amounts that are included in or excluded from the most directly comparable measure calculated and presented in accordance with U.S. GAAP. For example, non-GAAP measures may exclude the impact of certain items such as acquisitions, divestitures, gains and losses, or items outside of management s control, such as foreign currency exchange rate fluctuations. Management believes that the following non-GAAP financial measures provide investors and analysts useful insight into Emerson s financial position and operating performance. Any non-GAAP measure provided should be viewed in addition to, and not as an alternative to, the most directly comparable measure determined in accordance with U.S. GAAP, as identified in italics below. Further, the calculation of these non-GAAP financial measures may differ from the calculation of similarly titled financial measures presented by other companies and therefore may not be comparable among companies. 

Underlying sales, which exclude the impact of acquisitions and divestitures during the periods presented and fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates, are provided to facilitate relevant period-to-period comparisons of sales growth by excluding those items that impact overall comparability (U.S. GAAP measure:  net sales ). 

Operating profit (defined as net sales less cost of sales and selling, general and administrative expenses) and operating profit margin (defined as operating profit divided by net sales) are indicative of short-term operational performance and ongoing profitability. Management closely monitors operating profit and operating profit margin of each business to evaluate past performance and actions required to improve profitability (U.S. GAAP measures:  pretax earnings or pretax profit margin ). 

17 

Earnings, earnings per share, return on common stockholders  equity and return on total capital excluding certain gains and losses provide additional insight into the underlying, ongoing operating performance of the Company and facilitate period-to-period comparisons by excluding the earnings impact of these items. Given the nature of these items, management believes that presenting earnings, earnings per share, return on equity and return on total capital excluding them is more representative of the Company s operational performance and may be more useful for investors (U.S. GAAP measures:  earnings, earnings per share, return on common stockholders  equity, return on total capital ). 

Free cash flow (operating cash flow less capital expenditures) is an indicator of the Company s cash generating capabilities after considering investments in capital assets which are necessary to maintain and enhance existing operations. The determination of operating cash flow adds back non-cash depreciation expense to earnings and thereby does not reflect a charge for necessary capital expenditures. Management believes that free cash flow is useful to both management and investors as a measure of the Company s ability to generate cash (U.S. GAAP measure:  operating cash flow ).   

Item 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk  

Information appearing under "Financial Instruments" in the 2011 Annual Report is hereby incorporated by reference. 

Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data  

The consolidated financial statements and notes thereto of the Company and its subsidiaries and the report thereon of KPMG LLP in the 2011 Annual Report are hereby incorporated by reference. 

Item 9. Changes in and Disagreements with Accountants on Accounting and Financial Disclosure  

None. 

Item 9A. Controls and Procedures  

Emerson maintains a system of disclosure controls and procedures which is designed to ensure that information required to be disclosed by the Company in the reports filed or submitted under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 is recorded, processed, summarized and reported within the time periods specified in the SEC's rules and forms and is accumulated and communicated to management, including the Company s certifying officers, as appropriate to allow timely decisions regarding required disclosure. Based on an evaluation performed, the Company's certifying officers have concluded that the disclosure controls and procedures were effective as of September 30, 2011 to provide reasonable assurance of achieving these objectives. 

Notwithstanding the foregoing, there can be no assurance that the Company's disclosure controls and procedures will detect or uncover all failures of persons within the Company and its consolidated subsidiaries to report material information otherwise required to be set forth in the Company's reports.There was no change in the Company's internal control over financial reporting during the quarter ended September 30, 2011, that has materially affected, or is reasonably likely to materially affect, the Company's internal control over financial reporting. Management s report on internal control over financial reporting, and the related report of the Company s auditor, KPMG LLP, an independent registered public accounting firm, appearing in the 2011 Annual Report are hereby incorporated by reference. 

Item 9B. Other Information  

None. 

18 

PART III 

Item 10. Directors, Executive Officers and Corporate Governance  

Information regarding nominees and directors appearing under "Nominees and Continuing Directors" in the Emerson Electric Co. Notice of Annual Meeting of Stockholders and Proxy Statement for the February 2012 annual stockholders' meeting (the "2012 Proxy Statement") is hereby incorporated by reference. Information regarding executive officers is set forth in Part I of this report. Information appearing under "Section 16(a) Beneficial Ownership Reporting Compliance" in the 2012 Proxy Statement is hereby incorporated by reference. Information regarding the Audit Committee and Audit Committee Financial Expert appearing under "Board of Directors and Committees" in the 2012 Proxy Statement is hereby incorporated by reference. 

Emerson has adopted a Code of Ethics that applies to the Company's chief executive officer, chief financial officer and chief accounting officer; has posted such Code of Ethics on its Internet website; and intends to satisfy the disclosure requirement under Item 5.05 of Form 8-K by posting such information on its Internet website. Emerson has adopted Charters for its Audit Committee, Compensation Committee, and Corporate Governance and Nominating Committee and a Code of Business Ethics for directors, officers and employees, which are available on its Internet website and are available in print to any shareholder who requests them. Emerson has also adopted Corporate Governance Principles and Practices, which are available on its Internet website and are available in print to any shareholder who requests them. The Company's Internet website may be accessed as follows: www.Emerson.com, Investor Relations, Corporate Governance. 

Item 11. Executive Compensation  

Information appearing under  Board of Directors and Committees Compensation Committee,   Board of Directors and Committees Corporate Governance and Nominating Committee,   Director Compensation,   Executive Compensation  (including, but not limited to, the information set forth under  Compensation Discussion and Analysis,   Compensation Committee Report  and  Summary Compensation Table ) and  Compensation Committee Interlocks and Insider Participation  in the 2012 Proxy Statement is hereby incorporated by reference. 

The information contained in  Compensation Committee Report  shall not be deemed to be filed with the SEC or subject to the liabilities of Section 18 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 (the  Exchange Act ), except to the extent that Emerson specifically incorporates such information into future filings under the Securities Act of 1933 or the Exchange Act. 

Item 12. Security Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owners and Management and Related Stockholder Matters  

The information regarding beneficial ownership of shares by nominees and continuing directors, named executive officers and by all directors and executive officers as a group appearing under "Stock Ownership of Directors, Executive Officers and 5% Beneficial Owners" in the 2012 Proxy Statement is hereby incorporated by reference. 

19 

The following table sets forth aggregate information regarding the Company s equity compensation plans as of September 30, 2011: 

Number of Securities 

Remaining Available for 

Number of Securities 

Weighted-Average 

Future Issuance under 

to be Issued upon 

Exercise Price of 

Equity Compensation 

Exercise of 

Outstanding 

Plans (Excluding 

Outstanding Options, 

Options, Warrants 

Securities Reflected in 

Plan Category   

Warrants and Rights(2) 

and Rights 

Column (a)) 

(a) 

(b) 

(c) 

Equity compensation plans approved by security holders(1) 

21,349,815  

$  
  43.16  

33,534,274  

Equity compensation plans not approved by security holders 

-  

-  

-  

Total 

21,349,815  

$  
  43.16  

33,534,274  

(1) 

Includes the Company s previously approved Stock Option and Incentive Shares Plans. Included in column (a) are 5,367,146 shares reserved for performance share awards (awarded primarily in 2010), which will be distributed primarily in shares of common stock and partially in cash contingent upon the Company achieving the financial performance objective through 2013 and continued service by the employee. Also included in column (a) are 21,305 shares which have been earned under prior performance share programs but for which participants elected to defer payment. As provided by the Company s Incentive Shares Plans, performance share awards represent a commitment to issue such shares without cash payment by the employee, contingent upon achievement of the objective and continued service by the employee. The price in column (b) represents the weighted-average exercise price for outstanding options. Included in column (c) are 9,974,500 shares remaining available for award under the previously approved 2006 Incentive Shares Plan and 318,552 shares remaining available under the previously approved Restricted Stock Plan for Non-Management Directors. 

(2) 

Does not include 115,956 shares to be issued upon vesting of Avocent restricted stock units which were assumed and converted to Emerson restricted stock units in connection with the acquisition of Avocent Corporation in early fiscal 2010. These restricted stock units will be converted to Emerson shares without cash payment, contingent upon continued service through the end of the applicable vesting period. 

Information regarding stock option plans and incentive shares plans set forth in Note 14 of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements of the 2011 Annual Report is hereby incorporated by reference. 

Item 13. Certain Relationships and Related Transactions, and Director Independence  

Information appearing under  Director Independence  in the 2012 Proxy Statement is hereby incorporated by reference. 

Item 14. Principal Accountant Fees and Services  

Information appearing under "Fees Paid to KPMG LLP" in the 2012 Proxy Statement is hereby incorporated by reference. 

20 

PART IV 

Item 15. Exhibits and Financial Statement Schedules  

A) Documents filed as a part of this report: 

1. 

The consolidated financial statements and notes of the Company and its subsidiaries and the report thereon of KPMG LLP in the 2011 Annual Report.  

2.  

Financial Statement Schedules 

All schedules are omitted because they are not required, not applicable or the required information is provided in the financial statements or notes thereto contained in the 2011 Annual Report.  

3. 

Exhibits (Listed by numbers corresponding to the Exhibit Table of Item 601 in Regulation S-K). 

3(a)   

Restated Articles of Incorporation of Emerson Electric Co., incorporated by reference to Emerson Electric Co. Form 10-Q for the quarter ended March 31, 2001, File No. 1-278, Exhibit 3(a); Termination of Designated Shares of Stock and Certificate of Designation, Preferences and Rights of Series B Junior Participating Preferred Stock, incorporated by reference to Emerson Electric Co. 1998 Form 10-K, File No. 1-278, Exhibit 3(a). 

4(a) 

Indenture dated as of April 17, 1991, between Emerson Electric Co. and The Boatmen's National Bank of St. Louis, Trustee, incorporated by reference to Emerson Electric Co. Registration Statement on Form S-3, File No. 33-62545, Exhibit 4.1. 

No other long-term debt instruments are filed since the total amount of securities authorized under any such instrument does not exceed 10 percent of the total assets of Emerson Electric Co. and its subsidiaries on a consolidated basis. Emerson Electric Co. agrees to furnish a copy of such instruments to the SEC upon request. 

10(b)* 

Amended and Restated Emerson Electric Co. Continuing Compensation Plan for Non-Management Directors, incorporated by reference to Emerson Electric Co. 2007 Form 10-K, File No. 1-278, Exhibit 10(c). 

10(c)* 

Amended and Restated Deferred Compensation Plan for Non-Employee Directors and Forms of Payment Election Form, Initial Notice of Election and Notice of Election Change, incorporated by reference to Emerson Electric Co. 2007 Form 10-K, File No. 1-278, Exhibit 10(d). 

21 

10(d)* 

First Amendment to the Emerson Electric Co. Supplemental Executive Retirement Plan, incorporated by reference to Emerson Electric Co. 1999 Form 10-K, File No. 1-278, Exhibit 10(h), and Form of Change of Control Election, incorporated by reference to Emerson Electric Co. Form 8-K dated October 1, 2004, Exhibit 10.9 (applicable only with respect to benefits vested as of December 31, 2004). 

10(e)* 

Amended and Restated Emerson Electric Co. Pension Restoration Plan and Forms of Participation Award Letter, Acceptance of Award and Benefit Election Forms (applicable only with respect to benefits after January 1, 2005), incorporated by reference to Emerson Electric Co. 2007 Form 10-K, File No. 1-278, Exhibit 10(f). 

10(f)* 

Fifth Amendment to the Supplemental Executive Savings Investment Plan, incorporated by reference to Emerson Electric Co. Form 10-Q for the quarter ended March 31, 1999, File No. 1-278, Exhibit 10(j), and Form of Participation Agreement and Form of Annual Election, incorporated by reference to Emerson Electric Co. Form 8-K dated October 1, 2004, Exhibit 10.8 (applicable only with respect to benefits vested as of December 31, 2004). 

10(g)* 

Amended and Restated Emerson Electric Co. Savings Investment Restoration Plan and Forms of Participation Agreement, Annual Election Form and Payment Election Form (applicable only with respect to benefits after January 1, 2005), incorporated by reference to Emerson Electric Co. 2007 Form 10-K, File No. 1-278, Exhibit 10(h), and First Amendment to Emerson Electric Co. Savings Investment Restoration Plan, incorporated by reference to Emerson Electric Co. Form 10-Q for the quarter ended March 31, 2008, File No. 1-278, Exhibit 10.1. 

10(h)* 

Amended and Restated Emerson Electric Co. Annual Incentive Plan and Form of Acceptance of Award, incorporated by reference to Emerson Electric Co. 2007 Form 10-K, File No. 1-278, Exhibit 10(i). 

10(j)* 

1998 Stock Option Plan, incorporated by reference to Emerson Electric Co. 1998 Proxy Statement dated December 12, 1997, File No. 1-278, Appendix A, and Amendment No. 1 thereto, incorporated by reference to Emerson Electric Co. 2000 Form 10-K, File No. 1-278, Exhibit 10(l), Form of Notice of Grant of Stock Options and Option Agreement and Form of Incentive Stock Option Agreement, incorporated by reference to Emerson Electric Co. Form 8-K dated October 1, 2004, Exhibit 10.1, and Form of Notice of Grant of Stock Options and Option Agreement and Form of Nonqualified Stock Option Agreement, incorporated by reference to Emerson Electric Co. Form 8-K dated October 1, 2004, Exhibit 10.2. 

10(k)* 

2001 Stock Option Plan, incorporated by reference to Emerson Electric Co. 2002 Proxy Statement dated December 12, 2001, File No. 1-278, Appendix A, Form of Notice of Grant of Stock Options and Option Agreement and Form of Incentive Stock Option Agreement, incorporated by reference to Emerson Electric Co. Form 8-K dated October 1, 2004, Exhibit 10.3, and Form of Notice of Grant of Stock Options and Option Agreement and Form of Nonqualified Stock Option Agreement, incorporated by reference to Emerson Electric Co. Form 8-K dated October 1, 2004, Exhibit 10.4. 

22 

10(l)* 

Emerson Electric Co. Description of Split Dollar Life Insurance Program Transition, incorporated by reference to Emerson Electric Co. Form 8-K dated August 31, 2005, Exhibit 10.1. 

10(m)* 

Amended and Restated Restricted Stock Plan for Non-Management Directors, incorporated by reference to Emerson Electric Co. Form 10-Q for the quarter ended December 31, 2009, File No. 1-278, Exhibit 10.1, Form of Restricted Stock Award Letter under the Emerson Electric Co. Restricted Stock Plan for Non-Management Directors, incorporated by reference to Emerson Electric Co. Form 8-K dated February 1, 2005, Exhibit 10.2, and Form of Restricted Stock Unit Award Letter under the Emerson Electric Co. Restricted Stock Plan for Non-Management Directors, incorporated by reference to Emerson Electric Co. Form 10-Q for the quarter ended December 31, 2009, File No. 1-278, Exhibit 10.1. 

10(o)* 

Description of Named Executive Officer Compensation, incorporated by reference to Emerson Electric Co. Form 10-Q for the quarter ended December 31, 2004, Exhibit 10.1. 

12 

Ratio of Earnings to Fixed Charges. 

13 

Portions of Emerson Electric Co. Annual Report to Stockholders for the year ended September 30, 2011, incorporated by reference herein. 

21 

Subsidiaries of Emerson Electric Co. 

23 

Consent of Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm. 

23 

* Management contract or compensatory plan. 

24 

SIGNATURES 

Pursuant to the requirements of Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned, thereunto duly authorized. 

EMERSON ELECTRIC CO. 

By  

/s/ F. J. Dellaquila   

F. J. Dellaquila 

Senior Vice President and 

Chief Financial Officer 

Date: November 21, 2011 

Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, this report has been signed below on November 21, 2011, by the following persons on behalf of the registrant and in the capacities indicated. 

Signature  

Title  

/s/ D. N. Farr  

Chairman of the Board and Chief Executive Officer 

D. N. Farr 

/s/ W. J. Galvin  

Vice Chairman and Director 

W. J. Galvin 

/s/ F. J. Dellaquila  

Senior Vice President and Chief Financial Officer 

F. J. Dellaquila 

/s/ R. J. Schlueter  

Vice President, Controller and Chief Accounting Officer 

R. J. Schlueter 

* 

Director 

C. A. H. Boersig 

* 

Director 

A. A. Busch III 

* 

Director 

C. Fernandez G. 

25 

* 

Director 

A. F. Golden 

* 

Director 

H. Green 

* 

Director 

W. R. Johnson 

* 

Director 

J. B. Menzer 

* 

Director 

C. A. Peters 

* 

Director 

J. W. Prueher 

* 

Director 

R. L. Ridgway 

* 

Director 

R. L. Stephenson 

* By   
 
     /s/      

F. J. Dellaquila   

F. J. Dellaquila 

Attorney-in-Fact 

26 

INDEX TO EXHIBITS  

Exhibits are listed by numbers corresponding to the Exhibit Table of Item 601 in Regulation S-K. 

See Item 15(A) 3. for a list of exhibits incorporated by reference. 

27 

<EX-12>
 2
 v236587_ex12.htm
 EXHIBIT 12

Exhibit 12 

EMERSON ELECTRIC CO. AND SUBSIDIARIES 

COMPUTATION OF RATIO OF EARNINGS TO FIXED CHARGES 

(Dollars in Millions)  

</EX-12>

<EX-13>
 3
 v236587_ex13.htm
 EXHIBIT 13

Unassociated Document 

Exhibit 13  

FINANCIAL REVIEW 

Report of Management 

The Company s management is responsible for the integrity and accuracy of the financial statements. Management believes that the financial statements for the three years ended September 30, 2011 have been prepared in conformity with U.S. generally accepted accounting principles appropriate in the circumstances. In preparing the financial statements, management makes informed judgments and estimates where necessary to reflect the expected effects of events and transactions that have not been completed. The Company s disclosure controls and procedures ensure that material information required to be disclosed is recorded, processed, summarized and communicated to management and reported within the required time periods. 

In meeting its responsibility for the reliability of the  financial statements, management relies on a system of internal accounting control. This system is designed to provide reasonable assurance that assets are safeguarded and transactions are executed in accordance with management s authorization and recorded properly to permit the preparation of financial statements in  accordance with U.S. generally accepted accounting principles. The design of this system recognizes that errors or irregularities may occur and that estimates and judgments are required to assess the relative cost and expected benefits of the controls. Management believes that the Company s internal accounting controls provide reasonable assurance that errors or irregularities that could be material to the financial statements are prevented or would be detected within a timely period. 

The Audit Committee of the Board of Directors, which is composed solely of independent directors, is responsible for overseeing the Company s financial reporting process. The Audit Committee meets with management and the Company s internal auditors periodically to review the work of each and to monitor the discharge by each of its responsibilities. The Audit Committee also meets periodically with the independent auditors, who have free access to the Audit Committee and the Board of Directors, to discuss the quality and acceptability of the Company s financial reporting, internal controls, as well as non-audit- related services. 

The independent auditors are engaged to express an opinion on the Company s consolidated financial statements and on the Company s internal control over financial reporting. Their opinions are based on procedures that they believe to be sufficient to provide reasonable assurance that the financial statements contain no material errors and that the Company s internal controls are effective. 

Management s Report on Internal Control Over Financial Reporting 

The Company s management is responsible for establishing and maintaining adequate internal control over financial reporting for the Company. With the participation of the Chief Executive Officer and the Chief Financial Officer, management conducted an evaluation of the effectiveness of internal control over financial reporting based on the framework and the criteria established in  Internal Control   Integrated Framework , issued by the Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of the Treadway Commission. Based on this evaluation, management has concluded that internal control over financial reporting was effective as of September 30, 2011. 

The Company s auditor, KPMG LLP, an independent  registered public accounting firm, has issued an audit report on the effectiveness of the Company s internal control over financial reporting. 

/s/ David N. Farr  

/s/ Frank J. Dellaquila  

David N. Farr 

Frank J. Dellaquila 

Chairman of the Board 

Senior Vice President 

and Chief Executive Officer 

and Chief Financial Officer 

12 | 2011 Emerson 

Results of Operations 

Years ended September 30 | Dollars in millions, except per share amounts 

OVERVIEW 

The Company achieved strong sales growth and record earnings and earnings per share in 2011, led by innovative technology, improved economic conditions in industrial end markets, continued expansion in emerging markets and repositioning efforts in previous periods. Worldwide gross fixed investment continues to recover, however the economic environment remains uncertain amidst mixed macroeconomic indicators, including weakening trends in the U.S. and Europe. Consumer spending and residential construction remain weak. Fiscal year 2011 sales increased 15 percent and earnings per share from continuing operations of $3.24 were up 25 percent. Net sales were up in all segments and major geographic regions for the year, aided by acquisitions and foreign currency translation. Earnings increased for Process Management and Industrial Automation on very strong sales growth, while Tools and Storage and Climate Technologies reported moderate sales and earnings growth. Earnings declined in the Network Power segment on weakness in Asia and the embedded computing and power business, and the impact of higher amortization and other costs related to the Chloride and Avocent acquisitions. Fourth quarter sales and earnings growth were strong for Process Management and Industrial Automation, modest for Tools and Storage, and down for Climate Technologies on lower volume. Fourth quarter Network Power segment sales growth was strong due to the Chloride acquisition and modest underlying growth, while earnings declined slightly as improvement in the network power systems business was offset by weakness  in the embedded computing and power business. For 2011 the Company generated operating cash flow of  $3.2 billion and free cash flow (operating cash flow less capital expenditures) of $2.6 billion. Emerson is well positioned for future sales and earnings growth given its strong financial position, global footprint that includes rapid expansion in emerging markets, and a focus on products and technology. 

NET SALES 

Net sales for 2011 were $24.2 billion, an increase of $3,183 million, or 15 percent from 2010. Sales grew in all segments, led by Industrial Automation, Network Power and Process Management, which were up $1,005 million, $983 million and $978 million, respectively. Consolidated results reflect an 11 percent ($2,216 million) increase in underlying sales (which exclude acquisitions and foreign currency translation), a 2 percent ($623 million) contribution from acquisitions, and a 2 percent ($344 million) favorable impact from foreign currency translation. Underlying sales reflect volume gains of     

Annual Report | 13 

10 percent and an estimated 1 percent from higher selling prices as sales increased 13 percent internationally, including Asia (11 percent), Europe (11 percent), Latin America (20 percent), Middle East/Africa (16 percent) and Canada (20 percent). Underlying sales increased 8 percent in the United States. 

Net sales for 2010 were $21.0 billion, an increase of $937 million, or 5 percent from 2009. Sales growth was strong in Climate Technologies, aided by China stimulus programs, while Network Power, Tools and Storage, and Industrial Automation increased primarily due to acquisitions and favorable foreign currency translation. Process Management was down as end markets were strongly impacted by the economic slowdown. Consolidated results reflected a 1 percent ($102 million) decline in underlying sales, a 4 percent ($738 million) contribution from acquisitions and a 2 percent ($301 million) favorable impact from foreign currency translation. Underlying sales reflected a decline in volume as sales decreased 2 percent internationally, including Europe (7 percent), Middle East/Africa (10 percent), Canada (9 percent) and Latin America (2 percent), partially offset by an increase in Asia (7 percent). Underlying sales increased 1 percent in the United States.  

INTERNATIONAL SALES 

Emerson is a global business for which international sales, including non-U.S. acquisitions, have grown over the years and now represent 59 percent of the Company s total sales. The Company expects this trend to continue due to faster economic growth in emerging markets in Asia, Latin America, Eastern Europe and Middle East/Africa.  

International destination sales, including U.S. exports, increased approximately 20 percent, to $14.3 billion in 2011, reflecting increases in Network Power, Industrial Automation and Process Management as well as benefits from acquisitions. U.S. exports of $1,520 million were up 15 percent compared with 2010. Underlying destination sales increased 11 percent in Asia, including 12 percent growth in China, 11 percent in Europe, 20 percent in Latin America, 16 percent in Middle East/Africa and 20 percent in Canada. International subsidiary sales, including shipments to the United States, were $12.8 billion in 2011, up 20 percent from 2010. Excluding an 8 percent net favorable impact from acquisitions and foreign currency translation, international subsidiary sales increased 12 percent compared with 2010.  

International destination sales, including U.S. exports, increased approximately 5 percent, to $11.9 billion in 2010, reflecting increases in Climate Technologies, Network Power and Industrial Automation as well as benefits from acquisitions and a weaker U.S. dollar. U.S. exports of $1,317 million were up 9 percent compared with 2009. Underlying destination sales decreased 7 percent in Europe, 10 percent in Middle East/Africa and 2 percent in Latin America, partially offset by a 7 percent increase in Asia that includes 13 percent growth in China. International subsidiary sales, including shipments to the United States, were $10.7 billion in 2010, up 4 percent from 2009. Excluding a 7 percent net favorable impact from acquisitions and foreign currency translation, international subsidiary sales decreased 3 percent compared with 2009.  

ACQUISITIONS 

The Company acquired several small businesses during 2011, mainly in the Process Management and Climate Technologies segments, all of which were complementary to the existing business portfolio. Total cash paid for all businesses in 2011 was approximately $232 million. Annualized sales for businesses acquired in 2011 were approximately $100 million. See Note 3 for additional information.  

In 2010, the Company acquired Chloride Group PLC and Avocent Corporation. Chloride provides commercial and industrial uninterruptible power supply systems and services, which significantly strengthened the Company s network power systems business in Europe. Avocent is a leader in delivering solutions that enhance companies  integrated data center management capabilities and the acquisition strongly positioned the Company to benefit from the growing importance of infrastructure management in data centers worldwide. Chloride and Avocent, together with the Company s other existing offerings, create a global leader in providing integrated data center management solutions. The Company also acquired SSB  

14 | 2011 Emerson

Group GmbH and several smaller businesses during 2010. SSB designs and manufactures electrical pitch systems and controls used in wind turbine generators for the alternative energy market. Total cash paid for all businesses in 2010 was approximately $2,843 million. Additionally, the Company assumed debt of $169 million. Annualized sales for businesses acquired in 2010 were approximately $1,100 million. Also see Note 3. 

COST OF SALES 

Costs of sales for 2011 and 2010 were $14.7 billion and $12.7 billion, respectively. Gross profit of $9.6 billion and $8.3 billion, respectively, resulted in gross margins of 39.5 percent and 39.6 percent. The increase in gross profit primarily reflects higher volume and leverage, acquisitions, and savings from cost reduction actions in prior periods. Higher materials costs were only partially offset by price increases, diluting margins. Materials cost pressures persisted throughout the year. The Company continues working to balance cost increases with pricing actions. 

Costs of sales for 2010 and 2009 were $12.7 billion and $12.5 billion, respectively. Gross profit of $8.3 billion and $7.6 billion, respectively, resulted in gross margins of 39.6 percent and 37.6 percent. The increase in gross profit primarily reflected acquisitions, savings from rationalization and other cost reduction actions and favorable foreign currency translation, partially offset by a decline in volume. The two percentage point gross margin increase primarily reflected savings from cost reduction actions and materials cost containment. The Company s provision for inventory obsolescence decreased $29 million in 2010 due to improving economic conditions and a lower average inventory balance.  

SELLING, GENERAL AND ADMINISTRATIVE EXPENSES 

Selling, general and administrative (SG A) expenses for 2011 were $5.3 billion, or 22.0 percent of net sales, compared with $4.8 billion, or 22.9 percent of net sales for 2010. The $511 million increase was primarily due to higher sales volume and the impact of acquisitions. The decrease as a percent of sales was due to volume leverage, cost reduction savings and a $96 million decrease in incentive stock compensation expense reflecting changes in the Company s stock price and a reduced impact from incentive stock plans overlap compared to prior year (see Note 14), partially offset by acquisitions and higher wage and other costs. 

SG A expenses for 2010 were $4.8 billion, or 22.9 percent of net sales, compared with $4.4 billion, or 22.0 percent of net sales for 2009. The $401 million increase was primarily due to acquisitions and higher incentive stock compensation expense of $163 million related to an increase in the Company s stock price and the overlap of two stock plans in 2010, partially offset by cost reduction savings. The increase as a percent of sales was primarily the   result of higher incentive stock compensation expense, partially offset by savings from cost reduction actions. 

OTHER DEDUCTIONS, NET 

Other deductions, net were $375 million in 2011, a $6 million increase from 2010 that primarily reflects higher amortization expense of $85 million and a $19 million impairment charge, partially offset by a decrease in rationalization expense of $45 million, lower acquisition-related costs and a $15 million gain related to the acquisition of full ownership of a Process Management joint venture in India. See Notes 4 and 5 for further details regarding other deductions, net and rationalization costs, respectively.  

Other deductions, net were $369 million in 2010, a $105 million decrease from 2009 that primarily reflected decreased rationalization expense of $158 million and lower foreign currency transaction losses compared to the prior year, partially offset by higher amortization expense of $68 million and lower gains versus the prior year.  

INTEREST EXPENSE, NET 

Interest expense, net was $223 million, $261 million and $220 million in 2011, 2010 and 2009, respectively. The decrease of $38 million in 2011 was primarily due to lower average long-term borrowings. The $41 million increase in 2010 was primarily due to higher average long-term borrowings, reflecting acquisitions. 

INCOME TAXES 

Income taxes were $1,127 million, $848 million and $688 million for 2011, 2010 and 2009, respectively, resulting in effective tax rates of 31 percent, 29 percent and 28 percent. The higher 2011 effective tax rate primarily reflects a change in the mix of regional pretax income due to stronger earnings growth in the United States, where tax rates are generally higher than internationally, and lower benefits versus 2010 from non-U.S. tax holidays and a $30 million capital loss tax benefit from restructuring at a foreign subsidiary. The higher effective tax rate in 2010 compared with 2009 primarily reflects changes in the mix of pretax income which increased in the United States and Europe, and the $30 million capital loss benefit in 2010 compared to a $44 million net operating loss carryforward benefit in 2009. 

Annual Report | 15

EARNINGS FROM CONTINUING OPERATIONS  

Earnings and earnings per share from continuing operations common stockholders were $2.5 billion and $3.24, respectively, for 2011, increases of 24 percent and 25 percent, compared with $2.0 billion and $2.60 for 2010. Earnings increased primarily due to higher sales and resulting leverage, cost reduction savings, a decrease in incentive stock compensation expense and lower interest expense, slightly offset by higher materials and wage costs. Earnings improved $309 million in Process Management, $239 million in Industrial Automation, $18 million in Tools and Storage, and $18 million in Climate Technologies, slightly offset by a $44 million decrease in Network Power. See the Business Segments discussion that follows and Note 16 for additional information. 

Earnings and earnings per share from continuing operations common stockholders were $2.0 billion and $2.60, respectively, for 2010, both increases of 15 percent, compared with $1.7 billion and $2.26 for 2009. Earnings increased in all segments, reflecting decreased rationalization expense, savings from cost reduction actions and favorable foreign currency translation. Earnings improved $280 million in Climate Technologies, $221 million in Network Power, $121 million in Industrial Automation, $81 million in Tools and Storage and $33 million in Process Management. Earnings per share were negatively impacted $0.10 per share by the Avocent and Chloride acquisitions, including acquisition accounting charges, the expensing of deal costs and interest expense.  

DISCONTINUED OPERATIONS 

In the fourth quarter of 2011, the Company sold its heating elements unit for $73 million, resulting in an after-tax gain of $21 million ($30 million of income taxes). Fourth quarter 2011 heating elements sales were $12 million and net earnings were $1 million. The after-tax gain on divestiture and fourth quarter operating results for heating elements, and the impact of finalizing the 2010 Motors and LANDesk divestitures, have been classified as discontinued operations for 2011. Prior fiscal 2011 quarters and prior year results of operations for heating elements were inconsequential and have not been reclassified. 

LANDesk (acquired with Avocent in 2010) was sold in the fourth quarter of 2010 for proceeds of approximately $230 million, resulting in an after-tax gain of $12 million ($10 million of income taxes). LANDesk was classified as discontinued operations throughout 2010. Also in the fourth quarter of 2010, the Company sold its appliance motors and U.S. commercial and industrial motors businesses (Motors) for proceeds of $622 million, resulting in an after-tax gain of $155 million ($126 million of income taxes). Motors had total annual sales of $827 million and $813 million and net earnings, excluding the divestiture gain, of $38 million and $9 million in 2010 and 2009, respectively. Results of operations for Motors have been reclassified into discontinued operations for 2010 and prior.  

As noted above, 2011 income from discontinued operations includes the fourth quarter operating results and gain on disposition for heating elements. Income from discontinued operations in 2010 reflects the Motors and LANDesk divestitures and includes both operating results for the year and the gains on disposition. The income from discontinued operations reported for 2009 relates only to the operations of the Motors businesses. See Acquisitions and Divestitures discussion in Note 3 for additional information regarding discontinued operations. 

NET EARNINGS, RETURN ON EQUITY AND RETURN ON TOTAL CAPITAL 

Net earnings common stockholders were $2.5 billion and net earnings per share common stockholders were $3.27 for 2011, both increases of 15 percent compared with 2010, due to the same factors discussed previously, plus $26 million related to discontinued operations. Net earnings common stockholders as a percent of net sales were 10.2 percent and 10.3 percent in 2011 and 2010. Return on common stockholders  equity (net earnings common stockholders divided by average common stockholders  equity) was 24.6 percent in 2011 compared with 23.6 percent in 2010. Return on total capital was 19.6 percent in 2011 compared with 18.9 percent in 2010, and is computed as net earnings common stock holders   

16 | 2011 Emerson

excluding after-tax net interest expense, divided by average common stockholders  equity plus short- and long-term debt less cash and short-term investments. 

Net earnings common stockholders were $2.2 billion and net earnings per share common stockholders were $2.84 for 2010, increases of 26 percent and 25 percent compared with 2009, respectively, including both the Motors and LANDesk divestiture gains. Net earnings common stockholders as a percent of net sales were 10.3 percent and 8.6 percent in 2010 and 2009. Return on common stockholders  equity was 23.6 percent in 2010 compared with 19.5 percent in 2009. Return on total capital was 18.9 percent in 2010 compared with 16.2 percent in 2009. Net earnings common stockholders in all years included the aforementioned results from discontinued operations.  

Business Segments 

Following is an analysis of segment results for 2011 compared with 2010, and 2010 compared with 2009.  The Company defines segment earnings as earnings before interest and income taxes.  

PROCESS MANAGEMENT 

2011 vs. 2010    Process Management sales were $7.0 billion in 2011, an increase of $978 million as all businesses reported higher sales, led by very strong results for the measurement and flow business, valves business and systems and solutions business as a result of growth in the oil and gas, chemical, power and refining end markets. Underlying sales increased 14 percent on higher volume, which includes some market penetration gains, and foreign currency translation had a 2 percent ($120 million) favorable impact. Underlying sales increased in all major geographic regions, including the United States (14 percent), Asia (18 percent), Europe (8 percent), Canada (38 percent), Latin America (15 percent) and Middle East/Africa (7 percent). Earnings increased 28 percent, to $1,402 million, and margin increased approximately 2 percentage points, primarily due to higher sales volume and resulting leverage, savings from prior period cost reductions, $24 million lower restructuring expense, and an $8 million favorable impact from foreign currency transactions compared to prior year, partially offset by increased business development investments, wages and other costs. 

2010 vs. 2009    Process Management sales were $6.0 billion in 2010, a decrease of $113 million, reflecting a 7 percent decline in underlying sales on lower volume, a 3 percent ($178 million) favorable impact primarily from the Roxar acquisition and a 2 percent ($121 million) favorable impact from foreign currency translation. The valves business reported lower sales primarily as a result of weakness in the chemical, refining and marine markets. Sales for the systems and solutions and measurement and flow businesses were down slightly, while sales for the regulators business were up slightly. Regionally, underlying sales declined in all geographic areas, including 1 percent in the United States, 9 percent each in Asia, Europe and Middle East/Africa, 11 percent in Canada and 10 percent in Latin America. Earnings increased $33 million, to $1,093 million, and margin increased, reflecting savings from significant cost reduction actions, materials cost containment, lower restructuring costs of $20 million and a $17 million favorable impact from foreign currency transactions, partially offset by deleverage on lower sales volume and higher wage costs.  

Annual Report | 17

INDUSTRIAL AUTOMATION 

2011 vs. 2010    Industrial Automation sales increased $1,005 million to $5.3 billion in 2011, reflecting improvement in the capital goods end markets. Sales increased in all businesses led by very strong growth in the power generating alternators, fluid automation, electrical drives and power transmission businesses. Underlying sales increased 21 percent and foreign currency translation had a 2 percent ($92 million) favorable impact. The underlying sales growth reflects approximately 18 percent higher volume and an estimated 3 percent benefit from higher selling prices. Underlying sales increased in all regions, including 19 percent in the United States, 21 percent in both Europe and Asia, 49 percent in Middle East/Africa and 36 percent in Latin America. Earnings increased $239 million, to $830 million, and margin increased approximately 2 percentage points, reflecting higher sales volume and resulting leverage, savings from prior period cost reductions, and lower restructuring costs of $16 million, slightly offset by a $9 million unfavorable impact from foreign currency transactions. Higher materials costs were substantially offset by higher selling prices.  

2010 vs. 2009    Industrial Automation sales increased $117 million to $4.3 billion in 2010. Sales results reflected a decline in the power generating alternators and motors business due to weakness in capital spending, while sales increased in all other businesses, including strong growth in the electrical drives and hermetic motors businesses and solid growth in the fluid automation business. An underlying sales decline of 1 percent from lower prices was offset by the System Plast, Trident Power and SSB acquisitions contributing 3 percent ($101 million) and favorable foreign currency translation adding 1 percent ($54 million). Underlying sales decreased 4 percent in Europe and 2 percent in the United States, partially offset by increases in Asia (9 percent) and Latin America (17 percent). Earnings increased $121 million to $591 million for 2010 and margin increased over 2 percentage points as savings from cost reduction efforts were partially offset by unfavorable product mix. Price decreases were offset by lower materials costs.  

NETWORK POWER 

2011 vs. 2010    Sales for Network Power increased $983 million to $6.8 billion, on underlying sales growth of 6 percent, a positive contribution from the Chloride and Avocent acquisitions of 10 percent ($598 million) and favorable foreign currency translation of 1 percent ($77 million). Led by strong results in the network power systems business worldwide, underlying sales grew 7 percent on higher volume, less an estimated 1 percent decline in pricing. Strong growth in the North American uninterruptible power supply and precision cooling business and the embedded power business was slightly offset by a decrease in the embedded computing business. Underlying sales increased 6 percent in Asia, 3 percent in the United States, 19 percent in Latin America, 5 percent in Europe and 40 percent in Middle East/Africa. Earnings decreased $44 million to $756 million, and margin decreased 2.6 percentage points. Amortization of intangibles increased $67 million due to the Chloride and Avocent acquisitions, and other Chloride acquisition-related costs negatively impacted earnings $24 million. The margin was also reduced by higher labor-related costs in China, unfavorable product mix, higher materials cost, aggressive competitive pricing in the China telecommunications sector, and investment spending on next-generation data center technologies. Earnings benefited from volume leverage and savings from prior period cost reductions. 

18 | 2011 Emerson

2010 vs. 2009    Sales for Network Power increased $372 million to $5.8 billion in 2010, primarily from the Avocent acquisition, a strong increase in the embedded power business and a moderate increase in the network power systems business in Asia, partially offset by decreases in the uninterruptible power supply and precision cooling, energy systems, embedded computing and inbound power systems businesses. Underlying sales declined 2 percent on lower prices, acquisitions had a 7 percent ($370 million) favorable impact and foreign currency translation had a 2 percent ($90 million) favorable impact. Geographically, underlying sales were flat in the United States, while sales decreased in Europe (13 percent), Latin America (5 percent), Canada (17 percent) and Middle East/Africa (34 percent). Sales increased in Asia (6 percent). Earnings increased $221 million to $800 million, and margin increased over 3 percentage points largely as a result of cost savings from aggressive restructuring actions taken in 2009, particularly in the embedded computing and energy systems businesses, as well as lower restructuring expense of $93 million and a $17 million favorable impact from foreign currency transactions. Lower selling prices were partially offset by materials cost containment. 

CLIMATE TECHNOLOGIES 

2011 vs. 2010    Climate Technologies reported sales of $4.0 billion for 2011, a $194 million increase that reflects a strong increase in the compressor business, partially offset by share loss in the temperature controls business and a decrease in the temperature sensors business. The North American refrigeration and air conditioning end markets experienced solid growth while results in Asia were strong despite prior year growth that benefited from stimulus programs in China. Sales growth reflects a 3 percent underlying increase, including an estimated 2 percent from higher selling prices and approximately 1 percent from higher volume, a 1 percent ($42 million) favorable impact from foreign currency translation and a 1 percent ($28 million) positive contribution from acquisitions. Underlying sales increased 7 percent internationally, including 7 percent in Asia, 26 percent in Latin America and 3 percent in Europe, while sales were flat in the United States due to the decline in the temperature controls business. Earnings increased 3 percent to $709 million, due to savings from prior period cost reductions and higher sales volume in the compressor business. The margin was diluted by higher materials and other costs, which were partially offset by higher selling prices, and deleverage in the temperature controls business. 

2010 vs. 2009    Climate Technologies reported sales of $3.8 billion for 2010, a $604 million increase, reflecting increases across all businesses, including compressors, temperature sensors and heater controls. Sales growth was strong in Asia and North America, aided by stimulus programs in support of mandated higher efficiency standards in China, growth in U.S. air conditioning and refrigeration markets and a change in refrigerant requirements in the U.S. Underlying sales increased approximately 16 percent on higher volume, which included slight new product penetration gains, acquisitions added 2 percent ($55 million) and foreign currency translation had a 1 percent ($22 million) favorable impact. The underlying sales increase reflected a 12 percent increase in the United States and 22 percent internationally, including increases of 47 percent in Asia and 21 percent in Latin America, partially offset by a decline of 4 percent in Europe. Earnings increased $280 million to $691 million, primarily due to higher sales volume, savings from cost reduction actions, lower restructuring expense of $35 million and a $15 million commercial litigation charge included in 2009 costs. The margin increase in excess of 5 percentage points reflected leverage on higher sales volume, savings from cost reduction actions in prior periods and materials cost containment, partially offset by lower prices and unfavorable product mix. 

TOOLS AND STORAGE 

2011 vs. 2010    Sales for Tools and Storage were $1.8 billion in 2011, an $82 million increase. Sales growth reflects an underlying increase of 5 percent, including approximately 4 percent from higher volume and an estimated 1 percent from higher selling prices, and favorable foreign currency translation of 1 percent ($13 million), partially offset by a negative 1 percent ($21 million) impact from the heating elements unit divestiture. The sales increase was led by very strong growth in the professional tools and commercial storage businesses and modest growth in the food waste disposers business, partially offset by decreases in the consumer-related wet/dry vacuums and residential storage businesses due to continued weak U.S. residential construction markets. Underlying sales increased 5 percent in the United States and 11 percent  

Annual Report | 19

internationally. Earnings for 2011 were $375 million, an increase of $18 million, reflecting earnings growth in the professional tools business partially offset by lower earnings in the wet/dry vacuums, residential storage and food waste disposers businesses. The margin increased on higher sales volume and resulting leverage in the professional tools business as well as savings from prior period cost reductions, largely offset by higher freight costs and unfavorable product mix. Higher materials costs were substantially offset by price increases.

2010 vs. 2009    Sales for Tools and Storage were $1.8 billion in 2010, a $30 million increase from 2009. Strong growth in the tools and food waste disposers businesses was partially offset by a decline in the residential storage business, due to weakness in the U.S. residential construction markets. The sales increase reflected a 1 percent decrease in underlying sales on lower volume, due to the Company outsourcing its freight operations, with favorable impacts from acquisitions of 2 percent ($34 million) and foreign currency translation of 1 percent   ($14 million). Underlying sales in the United States decreased 1 percent while underlying international sales increased 4 percent. Earnings for 2010 were $357 million, an increase of $81 million, and margin increased over 4 percentage points, reflecting earnings growth in the tools, appliances and storage businesses, benefits of cost reduction and restructuring actions in 2009, product mix, lower restructuring expense of $11 million and savings from materials cost containment. 

Financial Position, Capital Resources and Liquidity 

The Company continues to generate substantial cash from operations, is in a strong financial position with total assets of $24 billion and common stockholders  equity of $10 billion, and has the resources available to reinvest in existing businesses, pursue strategic acquisitions and manage its capital structure on a short-and long-term basis. 

CASH FLOW 

Emerson generated operating cash flow of $3.2 billion in 2011, a decrease of 2 percent compared to 2010, reflecting an increase in operating working capital partially offset by higher net earnings. With resumption of growth in the current year, additional investment in working capital has been necessary. Operating cash flow of $3.3 billion in 2010 was a 7 percent increase from $3.1 billion in 2009, reflecting higher earnings in 2010 and continued improvement in working capital management. At September 30, 2011, operating working capital as a percent of sales was 7.0 percent, compared with 6.7 percent and 8.2 percent in 2010 and 2009, respectively. Pension contributions were $142 million, $247 million and $303 million in 2011, 2010 and 2009, respectively. Operating cash flow fully funded capital expenditures, dividends and share repurchases in all years presented and fully funded acquisitions in 2011.  

Capital expenditures were $647 million, $524 million and $531 million in 2011, 2010 and 2009, respectively. The increase in capital expenditures in 2011 was primarily due to capacity expansion in the Process Management and Industrial Automation segments. Free cash flow was $2.6 billion in 2011, compared with $2.8 billion in 2010, primarily reflecting higher capital expenditures in 2011. Free cash flow increased in 2010 from $2.6 billion in 2009, reflecting higher net earnings in 2010. In 2012, the Company is targeting capital spending of approximately $700 million, including $100 million already authorized by the Board of Directors to build, expand or renovate  

20 | 2011 Emerson

office and manufacturing facilities in the United States, China and Brazil. Net cash paid in connection with acquisitions was $232 million, $2,843 million and $776 million in 2011, 2010 and 2009, respectively. Proceeds from divestitures in those years were $103 million, $846 million and $4 million, respectively.  

Dividends were $1,039 million ($1.38 per share) in 2011, compared with $1,009 million ($1.34 per share) in 2010 and $998 million ($1.32 per share) in 2009. In November 2011, the Board of Directors voted to increase the quarterly cash dividend 16 percent to an annualized rate of $1.60 per share. In 2008, the Board of Directors approved a program for the repurchase of up to 80 million common shares, under which 18.7 million shares, 2.1 million shares and 21.0 million shares were repurchased in 2011, 2010 and 2009, respectively; 30.7 million shares remain available for repurchase under the 2008 authorization. Purchases of Emerson common stock totaled $958 million, $100 million and $695 million in 2011, 2010 and 2009, respectively, at an average price paid per share of $51.31, $48.15 and $33.09, respectively. 

LEVERAGE/CAPITALIZATION 

Total debt, which includes long-term debt, current maturities of long-term debt, commercial paper and other short-term borrowings, was $5.2 billion, $5.1 billion and $4.6 billion for 2011, 2010 and 2009, respectively. Short-term borrowings increased $398 million in 2010, primarily reflecting incremental commercial paper borrowings associated with the mix of funding for the Avocent and Chloride acquisitions, which also included issuance of long-term debt, proceeds from divestitures and operating cash flow. See Note 3 for additional information. During 2010, the Company issued $300 million each of 4.25% notes due November 2020 and 5.25% notes due November 2039 and repaid $500 million of 7.125% notes that matured in August 2010. During 2009, the Company issued $250 million each of 4.125% notes due April 2015, 5.0% notes due April 2019 and 6.125% notes due April 2039 and $500 million of 4.875% notes due October 2019, and repaid $175 million of 5.0% notes and $250 million of 5.85% notes that matured in October 2008 and March 2009, respectively.  

The total debt-to-capital ratio was 33.3 percent at year end 2011, compared with 34.1 percent for 2010 and 34.8 percent for 2009. At September 30, 2011, net debt (total debt less cash and short-term investments) was 23.2 percent of net capital, compared with 26.2 percent in 2010 and 25.7 percent in 2009. Both ratios improved in 2011, reflecting higher equity. The operating cash flow-to-debt ratio was 62.2 percent, 65.0 percent and 67.5 percent in 2011, 2010 and 2009, respectively. The Company s interest coverage ratio (earnings before income taxes plus interest expense, divided by interest expense) was 15.8 times in 2011, compared with 11.3 times and 11.0 times in 2010 and 2009. The increase in interest coverage from 2010 to 2011 reflects higher earnings and lower average borrowings, while the increase from 2009 to 2010 was primarily due to higher earnings. See Notes 8 and 9 for additional information.  

In December 2010 the Company entered into a $2.75 billion four-year revolving backup credit facility to support short-term borrowings, which replaced a $2.83 billion five-year revolving credit facility dated April 2006. The Company did not draw upon either facility in 2011, 2010 or 2009. The credit facility contains no financial covenants and is not subject to termination based on a change in credit ratings or material adverse changes. The Company also maintains a universal shelf registration statement on file with the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC) under which it can issue debt securities, preferred stock, common stock, warrants, share purchase contracts and share purchase units without a predetermined limit. Securities can be sold in one or more separate offerings with the size, price and terms to be determined at the time of sale. 

Annual Report | 21

Emerson maintains a conservative financial structure which provides the strength and flexibility necessary to achieve its strategic objectives. The Company has been successful in efficiently deploying cash where needed worldwide to fund operations, complete acquisitions and sustain long-term growth. Substantially all of the Company s cash is held outside the U.S., in Europe and Asia, and is available for repatriation to the U.S. Under current tax law, repatriated cash may be subject to U.S. federal income taxes, net of available foreign tax credits. The Company routinely repatriates a portion of its non-U.S. cash from earnings each year, or otherwise when it can be accomplished tax efficiently, and provides for U.S. income taxes as appropriate. The Company has been able to readily meet all its funding requirements and currently believes that sufficient funds will be available to meet the Company s needs in the foreseeable future through operating cash flow, existing resources, short- and long-term debt capacity or backup credit lines. 

CONTRACTUAL OBLIGATIONS 

At September 30, 2011, the Company s contractual obligations, including estimated payments, are as follows: 

Purchase obligations consist primarily of inventory purchases made in the normal course of business to meet operational requirements. The above table does not include $2.5 billion of other noncurrent liabilities recorded in the balance sheet and summarized in Note 17, which consist essentially of pension and postretirement plan liabilities and deferred income taxes (including unrecognized tax benefits), because it is not certain when these amounts will become due. See Notes 10 and 11 for estimated future benefit payments and Note 13 for additional information on deferred income taxes.  

FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS 

The Company is exposed to market risk related to changes in interest rates, commodity prices and foreign currency exchange rates, and selectively uses derivative financial instruments, including forwards, swaps and purchased options, to manage these risks. The Company does not hold derivatives for trading purposes. The value of market risk sensitive derivative and other financial instruments is subject to change as a result of movements in market rates and prices. Sensitivity analysis is one technique used to forecast the impact of these movements. Based on a hypothetical 10 percent increase in interest rates, a 10 percent decrease in commodity prices or a 10 percent weakening in the U.S. dollar across all currencies, the potential losses in future earnings, fair value and cash flows are immaterial. Sensitivity analysis has limitations; for example, a weaker U.S. dollar would benefit future earnings through favorable translation of non-U.S. operating results, and lower commodity prices would benefit future earnings through lower cost of sales. See Notes 1 and 7 through 9.  

Critical Accounting Policies 

Preparation of the Company s financial statements requires management to make judgments, assumptions and estimates regarding uncertainties that could affect reported revenue, expenses, assets, liabilities and equity. Note 1 describes the significant accounting policies used in preparation of the consolidated financial statements. The most significant areas where management judgments and estimates impact the primary financial statements are described below. Actual results in these areas could differ materially from management s estimates under different assumptions or conditions.  

REVENUE RECOGNITION   

The Company recognizes nearly all of its revenues through the sale of manufactured products and records the sale when products are shipped or delivered, and title passes to the customer with collection reasonably assured. In certain limited circumstances, revenue is recognized using the percentage-of-completion  

22 | 2011 Emerson

method, as performance occurs, or in accordance with ASC 985-605 related to software. Sales arrangements sometimes involve delivering multiple elements, including services such as installation. In these instances, the revenue assigned to each element is based on its vendor-specific objective evidence, third-party evidence or management estimate of the relative selling price, with revenue recognized individually for delivered elements only if they have value to the customer on a stand-alone basis, the performance of the undelivered items is probable and substantially in the Company s control or the undelivered elements are inconsequential or perfunctory, and there are no unsatisfied contingencies related to payment. Management believes that all relevant criteria and conditions are considered when recognizing revenue.  

INVENTORIES  

Inventories are stated at the lower of cost or market. The majority of inventory values are based on standard costs, which approximate average costs, while the remainder are principally valued on a first-in, first-out basis. Cost standards are revised at the beginning of each year. The annual effect of resetting standards plus any operating variances incurred during each period are allocated between inventories and cost of sales. The Company s businesses review inventory for obsolescence, make appropriate provisions and dispose of obsolete inventory on a regular basis. Various factors are considered in these reviews, including sales history and recent trends, industry conditions and general economic conditions.  

LONG-LIVED ASSETS  

Long-lived assets, which include property, plant and equipment, goodwill and identifiable intangible assets are reviewed for impairment whenever events or changes in business circumstances indicate impairment may exist. If the Company determines that the carrying value of the long-lived asset may not be recoverable, a permanent impairment charge is recorded for the amount by which the carrying value of the long-lived asset exceeds its fair value. Reporting units are also reviewed for possible goodwill impairment at least annually, in the fourth quarter, by comparing the fair value of each unit to its carrying value. Fair value is generally measured based on a discounted future cash flow method using a discount rate judged by management to be commensurate with the applicable risk. Estimates of future sales, operating results, cash flows and discount rates are subject to changes in the economic environment, including such factors as the general level of market interest rates, expected equity market returns and volatility of markets served, particularly when recessionary economic circumstances continue for an extended period of time. Management believes the estimates of future cash flows and fair values are reasonable; however, changes in estimates due to variance from assumptions could materially affect the evaluations. 

At the end of 2011, Emerson s total market value based on its exchange-traded stock price was approximately $31 billion and common stockholders  equity was $10 billion. The carrying value of the Industrial Automation wind turbine pitch control business was reduced by a $19 million charge to earnings. The Company s fourth quarter goodwill impairment testing determined the carrying value exceeded the fair value, reflecting a slowdown in investment for alternative energy in the current economic environment. In the Process Management segment, there is a unit recently acquired in 2009 with $216 million of goodwill for which the estimated fair value exceeds the carrying value by approximately 5 percent. The fair value of this unit assumes successful execution of plans to expand and integrate the business, and recovery in the demand for energy; in particular, the subsea extraction of oil and gas. There are two units in the Network Power segment with $367 million of goodwill where estimated fair value exceeds the carrying value by approximately 10 percent. Assumptions used in determining fair value include continued successful execution of business plans and growth in served markets, primarily network communications and connectivity. There are two units in the Tools and Storage segment with $250 million of goodwill, where estimated fair value exceeds carrying value by more than 25 percent and assumes execution of business plans and recovery in the residential and construction-related markets.  

RETIREMENT PLANS 

While the Company continues to focus on a prudent long-term investment strategy for its pension-related assets, the calculations of defined benefit plan expense and obligations are dependent on assumptions made regarding the expected annual return on plan assets, the discount rate and rate of annual compensation increases. In accordance with U.S. generally accepted accounting principles (U.S. GAAP), actual results that differ from the assumptions are accumulated as deferred actuarial losses and amortized in future periods. Management believes that the assumptions used are appropriate; however, differences versus actual experience or changes in assumptions may affect the Company s retirement plan obligations and future expense. As of September 30, 2011, combined U.S. and non-U.S. pension plans were underfunded by $732 million. Funded status decreased for the U.S. plans, which were underfunded by $462 million, and improved slightly for non-U.S. plans, which were underfunded by $270 million. The Company contributed $142 million to defined benefit plans in 2011 and expects to contribute approximately $150 million in 2012. The discount rate for U.S. plans was reduced to 4.75 percent in 2011 compared with 5.0 percent in 2010. The Company  

Annual Report | 23

expects to reduce the assumed investment return on plan assets to 7.75 percent for 2012 compared with the current 8.0 percent. Deferred actuarial losses, which will be amortized into earnings in future years, were $1,899 million ($1,217 million after-tax) as of September 30, 2011. Defined benefit pension plan expense for 2012 is expected to be approximately $170 million, up from $145 million in 2011. See Notes 10 and 11.

INCOME TAXES  

Income tax expense and tax assets and liabilities reflect management s assessment of taxes paid or expected to be paid (received) on items included in the financial statements. Uncertainty exists regarding tax positions taken in previously filed tax returns still under examination and positions expected to be taken in future returns. Deferred tax assets and liabilities arise because of temporary differences between the consolidated financial statement carrying amounts of existing assets and liabilities and their respective tax bases, and operating loss and tax credit carryforwards. Deferred income taxes are measured using enacted tax rates in effect for the year in which the temporary differences are expected to be recovered or settled. The impact on deferred tax assets and liabilities of a change in tax rates is recognized in the period that includes the enactment date. The Company also pays U.S. federal income taxes, net of available foreign tax credits, on cash repatriated from non-U.S. locations. No provision is made for U.S. income taxes on the undistributed earnings of non-U.S. subsidiaries where these earnings are considered permanently invested or otherwise indefinitely retained for continuing international operations. Determination of the amount of taxes that might be paid on these undistributed earnings if eventually remitted is not practicable. See Notes 1 and 13. 

NEW ACCOUNTING PRONOUNCEMENTS 

In May 2011, the FASB issued updates to ASC 820,  Fair Value Measurement , resulting in common fair value measurement and disclosure requirements for U.S. GAAP and International Financial Reporting Standards. These updates are effective January 1, 2012 for quarterly and annual reporting. Adoption of this update is not expected to have a material impact on the Company s financial statements.  

In June 2011, the FASB issued updates to ASC 220,  Comprehensive Income , eliminating the option to present other comprehensive income in the statement of equity. These updates require an entity to present comprehensive income as part of one continuous financial statement that includes net earnings and other comprehensive income or as a separate financial statement immediately following the statement of earnings. There is no change to the items to be reported in other comprehensive income or when those items should be reclassed into net earnings. These updates are effective for the first quarter of fiscal 2013. Adoption of this update will affect presentation only; there is no expected impact on the Company s financial results.  

In September 2011, the FASB issued updates to ASC 350,    Intangibles   Goodwill and Other , providing an option for companies to perform a qualitative analysis to determine if it is more likely than not the fair value of a reporting unit is less than its carrying amount. If the analysis determines the fair value exceeds the carrying amount, more extensive valuation and impairment testing need not be performed. These updates are effective for the first quarter of fiscal 2013; adoption of this update is not expected to have a material impact on the Company s financial statements.  

24 | 2011 Emerson

CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF EARNINGS 

EMERSON ELECTRIC CO.   SUBSIDIARIES 

Years ended September 30 | Dollars in millions, except per share amounts 

See accompanying Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements. 

Annual Report | 25

CONSOLIDATED BALANCE SHEETS 

EMERSON ELECTRIC CO.   SUBSIDIARIES 

September 30 | Dollars in millions, except per share amounts 

See accompanying Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements. 

26 | 2011 Emerson

Annual Report | 27 

CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF EQUITY 

EMERSON ELECTRIC CO.   SUBSIDIARIES 

Years ended September 30 | Dollars in millions, except per share amounts 

See accompanying Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements. 

28 | 2011 Emerson

CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF CASH FLOWS 

EMERSON ELECTRIC CO.   SUBSIDIARIES 

Years ended September 30 | Dollars in millions 

See accompanying Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements. 

Annual Report | 29

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 

EMERSON ELECTRIC CO.   SUBSIDIARIES 

Years ended September 30 | Dollars in millions, except per share amounts or where noted 

(1)  Summary of Significant Accounting Policies 

FINANCIAL STATEMENT PRESENTATION  

The preparation of the financial statements in conformity with U.S. generally accepted accounting principles (U.S. GAAP) requires management to make estimates and assumptions that affect reported amounts and related disclosures. Actual results could differ from these estimates. Certain operating results have been classified as discontinued operations. See Note 3. 

Emerson adopted updates to ASC 810,  Consolidation , in the first quarter of 2010. The updates require an entity to separately disclose noncontrolling interests in subsidiaries as a separate line item in the income statement and as a separate component of equity in the balance sheet. Adoption did not have a material impact on the Company s financial statements. As required, certain prior year amounts were reclassified as this change was retrospectively applied to prior periods.  

Effective October 1, 2009, the Company adopted ASC 805,  Business Combinations , which requires that assets acquired, liabilities assumed and contractual contingencies be measured at fair value as of the acquisition date and all acquisition costs be expensed as incurred. See Note 3 for a discussion of acquisition activity.  

In the first quarter of 2010, the Company adopted updates to ASC 260,  Earnings per Share , regarding the two-class method of computing earnings per share (EPS). This method requires earnings to be allocated to participating securities (for Emerson, certain employee stock awards) in the EPS computation based on each security s respective dividend rate. This change had an inconsequential impact on EPS.    

PRINCIPLES OF CONSOLIDATION 

The consolidated financial statements include the accounts of the Company and its controlled affiliates. Intercompany transactions, profits and balances are eliminated in consolidation. Investments of 20 percent to 50 percent of the voting shares of other entities are accounted for by the equity method. Investments in publicly-traded companies of less than 20 percent are carried at fair value, with changes in fair value reflected in accumulated other comprehensive income. Investments in nonpublicly traded companies of less than 20 percent are carried at cost. 

FOREIGN CURRENCY TRANSLATION 

The functional currency for most of the Company s non-U.S. subsidiaries is the local currency. Adjustments resulting from translating local currency financial statements into U.S. dollars are reflected in accumulated other comprehensive income. 

FAIR VALUE MEASUREMENTS 

ASC 820,  Fair Value Measurement , established a formal hierarchy and framework for measuring financial statement items at fair value and expanded disclosure about fair value measurements and the reliability of valuation inputs. Under ASC 820, measurement assumes the transaction to sell an asset or transfer a liability occurs in the principal or at least the most advantageous market for that asset or liability. Within the hierarchy, Level 1 instruments use observable market prices for the identical item in active markets and have the most reliable valuations. Level 2 instruments are valued through broker/dealer quotation or through market-observable inputs for similar items in active markets, including forward and spot prices, interest rates and volatilities. Level 3 instruments are valued using inputs not observable in an active market, such as company-developed future cash flow estimates, and are considered the least reliable. Valuations for all of Emerson s financial instruments fall within Level 2. The fair value of the Company s long-term debt is estimated using current interest rates and pricing from financial institutions and other market sources for debt with similar maturities and characteristics. In 2010, Emerson adopted the portions of ASC 820 related to nonfinancial assets and liabilities, including goodwill and certain other intangible and long-lived assets. Adoption did not have a material impact on the Company s financial statements. 

CASH EQUIVALENTS 

Cash equivalents consist of highly liquid investments with original maturities of three months or less. 

30 | 2011 Emerson

INVENTORIES 

Inventories are stated at the lower of cost or market. The majority of inventory is valued based on standard costs that approximate average costs, while the remainder is principally valued on a first-in, first-out basis. Cost standards are revised at the beginning of each fiscal year. The annual effect of resetting standards plus any operating variances incurred during each period are allocated between inventories and cost of sales. 

PROPERTY, PLANT AND EQUIPMENT 

The Company records investments in land, buildings, and machinery and equipment at cost. Depreciation is computed principally using the straight-line method over estimated service lives, which for principal assets are 30 to 40 years for buildings and 8 to 12 years for machinery and equipment. Long-lived tangible assets are reviewed for impairment whenever events or changes in business circumstances indicate the carrying value of the assets may not be recoverable. Impairment losses are recognized based on fair value if the sum of expected future undiscounted cash flows of the related assets is less than their carrying values. 

GOODWILL AND OTHER INTANGIBLE ASSETS 

Assets and liabilities acquired in business combinations are accounted for using the acquisition method and recorded at their respective fair values. Substantially all goodwill is assigned to the reporting unit that acquires a business. A reporting unit is an operating segment as defined in ASC 280,  Segment Reporting , or a business one level below an operating segment if discrete financial information for that business unit is prepared and regularly reviewed by the segment manager. The Company conducts impairment tests of goodwill on an annual basis in the fourth quarter and between annual tests if events or circumstances indicate the fair value of a reporting unit may be less than its carrying value. If a reporting unit s carrying amount exceeds its estimated fair value, goodwill impairment is recognized to the extent that recorded goodwill exceeds the implied fair value of that goodwill. Fair values of reporting units are Level 3 measures and are developed under an income approach that discounts estimated future cash flows using risk-adjusted interest rates.  

All of the Company s identifiable intangible assets are subject to amortization. Identifiable intangibles consist of intellectual property such as patents and trademarks, customer relationships and capitalized software, and are amortized on a straight-line basis over the estimated useful life. These intangibles are also subject to evaluation for potential impairment if events or circumstances indicate the carrying amount may not be recoverable. See Note 6. 

WARRANTY 

Warranties vary by product line and are competitive for the markets in which the Company operates. Warranties generally extend for a period of one to two years from the date of sale or installation. Provisions for warranty are determined primarily based on historical warranty cost as a percentage of sales or a fixed amount per unit sold based on failure rates, adjusted for specific problems that may arise. Product warranty expense is less than one percent of sales.   

REVENUE RECOGNITION 

The Company recognizes nearly all of its revenues through the sale of manufactured products and records the sale when products are shipped or delivered, and title passes to the customer with collection reasonably assured. In certain limited circumstances, revenue is recognized using the percentage-of-completion method, as performance occurs, or in accordance with ASC 985-605 related to software. Management believes that all relevant criteria and conditions are considered when recognizing revenue. 

Sales arrangements sometimes involve delivering multiple elements, including services such as installation. In these instances, the revenue assigned to each element is based on vendor-specific objective evidence, third-party evidence or management estimate of the relative selling price, with revenue recognized individually for delivered elements only if they have value to the customer on a stand-alone basis, the performance of the undelivered items is probable and substantially in the Company s control or the undelivered elements are inconsequential or perfunctory, and there are no unsatisfied contingencies related to payment. Approximately ten percent of the Company s revenues arise from qualifying sales arrangements that include the delivery of multiple elements, principally in the Network Power and Process Management segments. The vast majority of these deliverables are tangible products, with a small portion attributable to installation, service and maintenance. Selling prices are primarily determined using vendor-specific objective evidence. Generally, contract duration is short-term and cancellation, termination or refund provisions apply only in the event of contract breach and have historically not been invoked.   

As of October 1, 2010, certain updates became effective for ASC 605,  Revenue Recognition , regarding the allocation of consideration in multiple deliverables arrangements. Under the updated ASC 605, the allocation of consideration is now based on vendor-specific objective evidence, third party evidence or management estimates of selling price. The impact of this change on any period presented was inconsequential. 

Annual Report | 31

DERIVATIVES AND HEDGING 

In the normal course of business, the Company is exposed to changes in interest rates, foreign currency exchange rates and commodity prices due to its worldwide presence and diverse business profile. Emerson s foreign currency exposures primarily relate to transactions denominated in euros, Mexican pesos, Canadian dollars and Chinese renminbi. Primary commodity exposures are price fluctuations on forecasted purchases of copper and aluminum and related products. As part of the Company s risk management strategy, derivative instruments are selectively used in an effort to minimize the impact of these exposures. Foreign exchange forwards and options are utilized to hedge foreign currency exposures impacting sales or cost of sales transactions, firm commitments and the fair value of assets and liabilities, while swap and option contracts are used to minimize the effect of commodity price fluctuations on the cost of sales. All derivatives are associated with specific underlying exposures and the Company does not hold derivatives for trading or speculative purposes. The duration of hedge positions is generally two years or less and amounts currently hedged beyond 18 months are not significant. 

All derivatives are accounted for under ASC 815,  Derivatives and Hedging , and are recognized on the balance sheet at fair value. For derivatives hedging variability in future cash flows, the effective portion of any gain or loss is deferred in stockholders  equity and recognized in earnings when the underlying hedged transaction impacts earnings. The majority of the Company s derivatives that are designated as hedges and qualify for deferral accounting are cash flow hedges. For derivatives hedging the fair value of existing assets or liabilities, both the gain or loss on the derivative and the offsetting loss or gain on the hedged item are recognized in earnings each period. Currency fluctuations on non-U.S. dollar obligations that have been designated as hedges of non-U.S. dollar net asset exposures are reported in equity. To the extent that any hedge is not fully effective at offsetting cash flow or fair value changes in the underlying hedged item, there could be a net earnings impact. The Company also uses derivatives to hedge economic exposures that do not receive deferral accounting under ASC 815. The underlying exposures for these hedges relate primarily to purchases of commodity-based components used in the Company s manufacturing processes, and the revaluation of certain foreign-currency-denominated assets and liabilities. Gains or losses from the ineffective portion of any hedge, as well as any gains or losses on derivative instruments not designated as hedges, are recognized in the income statement immediately. 

If credit ratings on the Company s debt fall below pre-established levels, derivatives counterparties can require immediate full collateralization on instruments in net liability positions. Similarly, Emerson can demand full collateralization should any of the Company s counterparties  credit rating fall below certain thresholds. Counterparties to derivative arrangements are companies with high credit ratings. Risk from credit loss when derivatives are in asset positions is considered immaterial. The Company has master netting arrangements in place with its counterparties that allow the offsetting of certain derivative-related amounts receivable and payable when settlement occurs in the same period. Accordingly, counterparty balances are netted in the consolidated balance sheet. Net values of commodity contracts and foreign currency contracts are reported in current assets or accrued expenses depending on the position as of the balance sheet date. See Note 7. 

INCOME TAXES 

The provision for income taxes is based on pretax income reported in the consolidated statements of earnings and currently enacted tax rates for each jurisdiction. Certain income and expense items are recognized in different time periods for financial reporting and income tax filing purposes, and deferred income taxes are provided for the effect of temporary differences. The Company also provides for U.S. federal income taxes, net of available foreign tax credits, on earnings intended to be repatriated from non-U.S. locations. No provision has been made for U.S. income taxes on approximately $5.9 billion of undistributed earnings of non-U.S. subsidiaries as of September 30, 2011, as these earnings are considered permanently invested or otherwise indefinitely retained for continuing international operations. Recognition of U.S. taxes on undistributed earnings would be triggered by a management decision to repatriate those earnings, although there is no current intention to do so. Determination of the amount of taxes that might be paid on these undistributed earnings if eventually remitted is not practicable. See Note 13. 

COMPREHENSIVE INCOME 

Comprehensive income is primarily composed of net earnings plus changes in foreign currency translation, pension and postretirement adjustments, and the effective portion of changes in the fair value of cash flow hedges. Accumulated other comprehensive income, net of tax (a component of equity), consists of foreign currency translation credits of $671 and of $649, pension and postretirement charges of $1,164 and $1,108 and cash flow hedges and other charges of $69 and credits of $33, respectively, at September 30, 2011 and 2010. Accumulated other comprehensive income attributable to noncontrolling interests in subsidiaries consists primarily of earnings and foreign currency translation. 

RETIREMENT PLANS 

Effective September 30, 2010, the Company adopted updates to ASC 715,  Compensation - Retirement Benefits . These updates expand disclosure about an entity s investment policies and strategies for assets held by defined benefit pension or postretirement plans, including information regarding major classes of plan assets, inputs and valuation techniques used to measure the fair value of assets, and concentrations of risk within the plans. See Note 10. 

32 | 2011 Emerson

(2)  Weighted Average Common Shares 

Basic earnings per common share consider only the weighted average of common shares outstanding while diluted earnings per common share consider the dilutive effects of stock options and incentive shares. Options to purchase approximately 4.6 million, 3.9 million and 7.6 million shares of common stock were excluded from the computation of diluted earnings per share in 2011, 2010 and 2009, respectively, as the effect would have been antidilutive. Earnings allocated to participating securities were inconsequential for all years presented. Reconciliations of weighted average shares for basic and diluted earnings per common share follow: 

(3)  Acquisitions and Divestitures 

The Company acquired several small businesses during 2011, mainly in the Process Management and Climate Technologies segments. Total cash paid for all businesses was approximately $232, net of cash acquired of $2. Annualized sales for businesses acquired in 2011 were approximately $100. Goodwill of $125 (none of which is expected to be deductible for tax purposes) and identifiable intangible assets of $75, primarily customer relationships and patents and technology with a weighted-average life of approximately 12 years, were recognized from these transactions. All of these acquisitions were complementary to the existing business portfolio and none was individually significant. 

In the fourth quarter of 2011, the Company sold its heating elements unit, which was previously included in the Tools and Storage segment, for $73, resulting in an after-tax gain of $21 ($30 of income taxes). Heating elements had 2011 fourth quarter sales of $12 and net earnings of $1. Only the gain on divestiture and fourth quarter operating results for heating elements, and the impact of finalizing the 2010 Motors and LANDesk divestitures, have been classified as discontinued operations for 2011; prior fiscal 2011 quarters and prior year results of operations for heating elements were inconsequential and have not been reclassified. 

The Company acquired one-hundred percent of Chloride Group PLC during the fourth quarter of 2010 and Avocent Corporation during the first quarter of 2010. Chloride provides commercial and industrial uninterruptible power supply systems and services, which significantly strengthened the Company s Network Power business in Europe, and is included in the Network Power segment. Avocent products enhance companies  integrated data center management capabilities, which strongly positions Emerson for the growth of infrastructure management in data centers worldwide, and is included in the Network Power segment. 

The purchase price of Avocent and Chloride was allocated to assets and liabilities as follows: 

Results of operations for 2010 included combined sales of $373 and a combined net loss of $73 from Avocent and Chloride, including intangible asset amortization, interest, first year acquisition accounting charges and deal costs. Pro forma sales and net earnings common stockholders of the Company including full year results of operations for Avocent and Chloride were approximately $21.6 billion and $2.1 billion in 2010, and $21.0 billion and $1.6 billion in 2009, respectively. These pro forma results include intangible asset amortization and interest cost in both periods, and first year acquisition accounting charges and deal costs in 2009. 

Annual Report | 33

In addition to Chloride and Avocent, the Company acquired SSB, a designer and manufacturer of electrical pitch systems and controls used in wind turbine generators which is reported in the Industrial Automation segment, and other smaller businesses during 2010 reported mainly in the Process Management and Industrial Automation segments. Total cash paid for all businesses was approximately $2,843, net of cash acquired of $150. Additionally, the Company assumed debt of $169. Annualized sales for businesses acquired in 2010 were approximately $1.1 billion. Identifiable intangible assets of $1,166, primarily customer relationships and intellectual property with a weighted-average life of approximately 10 years, were recognized along with goodwill of $1,633, of which only a small amount is tax deductible. 

In the fourth quarter 2010, the Company sold the LANDesk business unit, which was acquired as part of Avocent and was not a strategic fit with Emerson, for $230, resulting in an after-tax gain of $12 ($10 of income taxes). Additionally, LANDesk incurred operating losses of $19. This business was classified as discontinued operations throughout 2010. Also in the fourth quarter of 2010, the Company sold its appliance motors and U.S. commercial and industrial motors businesses (Motors) which had slower growth profiles and were formerly reported in the Tools and Storage segment. Proceeds from the sale were $622 resulting in an after-tax gain of $155 ($126 of income taxes). The Motors disposition included working capital of $98, property, plant and equipment of $152, goodwill of $44, and other of $47. The Motors businesses had total annual sales of $827 and $813 and net earnings (excluding the divestiture gain) of $38 and $9 in 2010 and 2009, respectively. Results of operations for Motors have been reclassified into discontinued operations for 2010 and earlier periods. 

The Company acquired one-hundred percent of Roxar ASA during the third quarter of 2009, Trident Powercraft Private Limited during the second quarter of 2009 and System Plast S.p.A. during the first quarter of 2009. Roxar is a global supplier of measurement solutions and software for reservoir production optimization, enhanced oil and gas recovery and flow assurance and is included in the Process Management segment. Trident Power is a manufacturer and supplier of power generating alternators and other products and is included in the Industrial Automation segment. System Plast is a manufacturer of engineered modular belts and custom conveyer components for the food processing and packaging industries and is included in the Industrial Automation segment. In addition to Roxar, Trident Power and System Plast, the Company acquired other smaller businesses during 2009, mainly in the Climate Technologies, Tools and Storage and Process Management segments. Total cash paid for all businesses was approximately $776, net of cash acquired of $31. Additionally, the Company assumed debt of $230. Annualized sales for businesses acquired in 2009 were approximately $530. Goodwill of $541 ($34 of which is expected to be deductible for tax purposes) and identifiable intangible assets of $365, primarily customer relationships and patents and technology with a weighted-average life of 12 years, were recognized from these transactions in 2009. 

The results of operations of the businesses discussed above have been included in the Company s consolidated results of operations since the respective dates of acquisition. 

(4)  Other Deductions, Net 

Other deductions, net are summarized as follows: 

Other deductions, net increased for 2011 primarily due to higher amortization expense on acquired intangible assets, partially offset by lower rationalization expense and higher gains. Other is composed of several items that are individually immaterial, including foreign currency gains and losses, bad debt expense, equity investment income and losses, as well as one-time items such as litigation and disputed matters and insurance recoveries. Other decreased in 2011 primarily because of lower acquisition-related costs, partially offset by a $19 impairment charge related to the Industrial Automation wind turbine pitch control business, reflecting a slowdown in investment for alternative energy in the current economic environment. Other decreased in 2010 primarily because of $45 of lower foreign currency transaction losses compared with 2009. Gains, net for 2011 include $15 related to the acquisition of full ownership of a Process Management joint venture in India. Gains, net for 2009 included $25 ($17 after-tax) related to the sale of an asset for which the Company received $41. 

34 | 2011 Emerson

(5)  Rationalization of Operations 

Rationalization of operations expense reflects costs associated with the Company s efforts to continually improve operational efficiency and deploy assets globally in order to remain competitive on a worldwide basis. Each year the Company incurs costs for actions to size its businesses to a level appropriate for current economic conditions and to improve its cost structure for future growth. Rationalization expenses result from numerous individual actions implemented across the Company s various operating divisions on an ongoing basis and include costs for moving facilities to best-cost locations, starting up plants after relocation or geographic expansion to serve local markets, exiting certain product lines, curtailing/downsizing operations because of changing economic conditions and other costs resulting from asset redeployment decisions. Shutdown costs include severance, benefits, stay bonuses, lease and contract terminations and asset write-downs. In addition to the costs of moving fixed assets, start-up and moving costs include employee training and relocation. Vacant facility costs include security, maintenance, utility and other costs. 

The Company reported rationalization expenses of $81, $126 and $284, respectively for 2011, 2010 and 2009, with the significantly higher expense in 2009 due to actions taken in response to the severe economic environment worldwide. The Company currently expects to incur rationalization expense in 2012 in the range of approximately $100 to $125, including the costs to complete actions initiated before the end of 2011 and actions anticipated to be approved and initiated during 2012. 

The change in the liability for the rationalization of operations during the years ended September 30 follows: 

Rationalization of operations expense by segment is summarized as follows: 

During 2011, the Company s business segments incurred start-up and moving costs related to relocating assets to best cost locations, geographic expansion to directly serve local markets, or shutdown costs for the consolidation of facilities within geographic locations to increase operational efficiency. Severance and benefits expense relates to exiting approximately 20 facilities, including those consolidated within regions, and eliminating approximately 2,800 positions. Start-up and moving costs were substantially incurred in Industrial Automation and Network Power, while Industrial Automation incurred most of the fixed-asset write-downs. Facilities consolidation largely occurred in North America and Europe. Vacant facilities and other shutdown costs were not material for any segment. 

Annual Report | 35 

Costs incurred during 2010 included actions to exit approximately 25 production, distribution or office facilities and eliminate approximately 3,500 positions, as well as costs related to facilities exited in previous periods. All the Company s business segments incurred shutdown costs due to workforce reductions and/or the consolidation of facilities. Start-up and moving costs, vacant facilities and other costs were not material for any segment. In addition to force-count reductions, actions in 2010 included Process Management consolidating some North American and European production; Industrial Automation consolidating production and sales within Europe and North America; Network Power consolidating North American production and shifting some capabilities from North America and Europe to Asia; and Climate Technologies consolidating or downsizing production in North America and Europe. 

Costs incurred during 2009 included exiting approximately 25 production, distribution or office facilities and eliminating approximately 20,000 positions, of which approximately one-half were from restructuring actions and the remainder through layoffs and attrition, as well as costs related to facilities exited in previous periods. All the Company s business segments incurred shutdown costs due to workforce reductions and/or the consolidation of facilities. Start-up and moving costs were primarily attributable to Network Power and Industrial Automation, while Network Power incurred most of the asset write-downs. Vacant facilities and other costs were immaterial for any segment. In addition to worldwide forcecount reductions, actions during 2009 included Industrial Automation consolidating production facilities; Network Power primarily incurring integration costs for the Embedded Computing acquisition, but also consolidating production in North America and Europe and shifting certain capabilities from Europe to Asia; Climate Technologies consolidating or downsizing production in North America, Europe and Asia; and Tools and Storage consolidating and downsizing production in North America. 

(6)  Goodwill and Other Intangibles 

Purchases of businesses are accounted for under the acquisition method, with substantially all goodwill assigned to the reporting unit that acquires the business. Under an impairment test performed annually, if the carrying amount of a reporting unit s goodwill exceeds its estimated fair value, impairment is recognized to the extent that the carrying amount exceeds the implied fair value of the goodwill. Fair values of reporting units are estimated using discounted cash flows and are subject to change due to changes in underlying economic conditions. The change in the carry amount of goodwill by business segment follows. See Notes 3 and 4 for further discussion of changes in goodwill related to acquisitions, divestitures and impairment. 

The gross carrying amount and accumulated amortization of identifiable intangible assets by major class follow: 

Total intangible asset amortization expense for 2011, 2010 and 2009 was $345, $254 and $184, respectively. Based on intangible asset balances as of September 30, 2011, amortization expense is expected to approximate $312 in 2012, $267 in 2013, $231 in 2014, $198 in 2015 and $173 in 2016. 

36 | 2011 Emerson

(7)  Financial Instruments 

HEDGING ACTIVITIES 

The notional value of foreign currency hedge positions was approximately $1.5 billion as of September 30, 2011. Commodity hedges outstanding as of September 30, 2011 included a total of approximately 107 million pounds of copper and aluminum. All derivatives receiving deferral accounting are cash flow hedges. The majority of hedging gains and losses deferred as of September 30, 2011 are expected to be recognized over the next 12 months as the underlying forecasted transactions occur. Amounts included in earnings and other comprehensive income follow: 

Regardless of whether or not derivatives receive deferral accounting, the Company expects hedging gains or losses to be essentially offset by losses or gains on the related underlying exposures. The amounts ultimately recognized will differ from those presented above for any open positions, which remain subject to ongoing market price fluctuations until settlement. Derivatives receiving deferral accounting are highly effective, no amounts were excluded from the assessment of hedge effectiveness, and hedge ineffectiveness was immaterial in 2011, 2010 and 2009, including gains or losses on derivatives that were discontinued because forecasted transactions were no longer expected to occur. 

FAIR VALUE MEASUREMENTS 

Fair values of derivative contracts outstanding as of September 30 follow: 

The Company posted $53 of collateral as of September 30, 2011. The maximum collateral the Company could have been required to post as of September 30, 2011 was $116. The fair value of long-term debt was $5,276 and $5,292, respectively, as of September 30, 2011 and 2010, which exceeded the carrying value by $673 and $635, respectively. 

Annual Report | 37

(8)  Short-Term Borrowings and Lines of Credit 

Short-term borrowings and current maturities of long-term debt are summarized as follows: 

The Company periodically issues commercial paper as a source of short-term financing. In December 2010 the Company entered into a $2.75 billion four-year revolving backup credit facility to support short-term borrowings, which replaced a $2.83 billion five-year revolving credit facility dated April 2006. The Company did not draw upon either facility in 2011, 2010 or 2009. The credit facility contains no financial covenants and is not subject to termination based on a change in credit ratings or material adverse changes. 

(9)  Long-Term Debt 

Long-term debt is summarized as follows: 

Long-term debt maturing during each of the four years after 2012 is $560, $265, $500 and $250, respectively. Total interest paid related to short-term borrowings and long-term debt was approximately $239, $264 and $230 in 2011, 2010 and 2009, respectively. 

The Company maintains a universal shelf registration statement on file with the SEC under which it could issue debt securities, preferred stock, common stock, warrants, share purchase contracts and share purchase units without a predetermined limit. Securities can be sold in one or more separate offerings with the size, price and terms to be determined at the time of sale. 

38 | 2011 Emerson

(10)  Retirement Plans 

Retirement plans expense includes the following components: 

Reconciliations of the actuarial present value of the projected benefit obligations and of the fair value of plan assets for defined benefit pension plans follow: 

Approximately $184 of the $1,899 of losses deferred in accumulated other comprehensive income at September 30, 2011, will be amortized into earnings in 2012. As of September 30, 2011, retirement plans in total were underfunded by $732. 

Annual Report | 39 

As of the plans  September 30, 2011 and 2010 measurement dates, the total accumulated benefit obligation was $4,345 and $4,246, respectively. Also, as of the plans  respective measurement dates, the projected benefit obligation, accumulated benefit obligation and fair value of plan assets for retirement plans with accumulated benefit obligations in excess of plan assets were $4,093, $3,907 and $3,380, respectively, for 2011, and $1,120, $1,043 and $618, respectively, for 2010. 

Future benefit payments for U.S. plans are estimated to be $174 in 2012, $183 in 2013, $192 in 2014, $200 in 2015, $208 in 2016 and $1,157 in total over the five years 2017 through 2021. Based on foreign currency exchange rates as of September 30, 2011, future benefit payments for non-U.S. plans are estimated to be $43 in 2012, $47 in 2013, $49 in 2014, $55 in 2015, $55 in 2016 and $308 in total over the five years 2017 through 2021. In 2012, the Company expects to contribute approximately $150 to its retirement plans. 

The weighted-average assumptions used in the valuations of pension benefits were as follows: 

The discount rate for the U.S. retirement plans was 4.75 percent as of September 30, 2011. An actuarially determined, company-specific yield curve is used to determine the discount rate. The expected return on plan assets assumption is determined by reviewing the investment returns of the plans for the past 10 years plus longer-term historical returns of an asset mix approximating Emerson s asset allocation targets, and periodically comparing these returns to expectations of investment advisors and actuaries to determine whether long-term future returns are expected to differ significantly from the past. The Company expects to reduce the assumed investment return on plan assets to 7.75 percent for 2012. Defined benefit pension plan expense for 2012 is expected to be approximately $170, versus $145 in 2011.  

The Company s asset allocations at September 30, 2011 and 2010, and weighted-average target allocations are as follows: 

The primary objective for the investment of plan assets is to secure participant retirement benefits while earning a reasonable rate of return. Plan assets are invested consistent with the provisions of the prudence and diversification rules of ERISA and with a long-term investment horizon. The Company continuously monitors the value of assets by class and routinely rebalances to remain within target allocations. The strategy for equity assets is to minimize concentrations of risk by investing primarily in companies in a diversified mix of industries worldwide, while targeting neutrality in exposure to market capitalization levels, growth versus value profile, global versus regional markets, fund types and fund managers. The approach for bonds emphasizes investment-grade corporate and government debt with maturities matching a portion of the longer duration pension liabilities. The bonds strategy also includes a high yield element which is generally shorter in duration. A small portion of U.S. plan assets is allocated to private equity partnerships and real asset fund investments for diversification, providing opportunities for above market returns. Leveraging techniques are not used and the use of derivatives in any fund is limited to exchange-traded futures contracts and is inconsequential. 

40 | 2011 Emerson

The fair values of defined benefit plan assets as of September 30, organized by asset class and by the fair value hierarchy of ASC 820 as outlined in Note 1, follow: 

ASSET CLASSES 

U.S. Equities reflects companies domiciled in the U.S., including multinational companies. International Equities is comprised of companies domiciled in developed nations outside the U.S. Emerging Market Equities is comprised of companies domiciled in portions of Asia, Eastern Europe and Latin America. Corporate Bonds represent investment-grade debt of issuers primarily from the U.S. Government Bonds include investment-grade instruments issued by federal, state and local governments, primarily in the U.S. High Yield Bonds include non-investment-grade debt from a diverse group of developed market issuers. Other includes cash, interests in mixed asset funds investing in commodities, natural resources, agriculture and exchange-traded real estate funds, life insurance contracts (U.S.) and shares in certain general investment funds of financial institutions or insurance arrangements (non-U.S.) that typically ensure no market losses or provide for a small minimum return guarantee. 

FAIR VALUE HIERARCHY CATEGORIES 

Valuations of Level 1 assets for all classes are based on quoted closing market prices from the principal exchanges where the individual securities are traded. Cash is valued at cost, which approximates fair value. Equity securities categorized as Level 2 assets are primarily non-exchange-traded commingled or collective funds where the underlying securities have observable prices available from active markets. Valuation is based on the net asset value of fund units held as derived from the fair value of the underlying assets. Debt securities categorized as Level 2 assets are generally valued based on independent broker/dealer bids or by comparison to other debt securities having similar durations, yields and credit ratings. Other Level 2 assets are valued based on a net asset value of fund units held, which is derived from either broker/dealer quotation or market-observed pricing for the underlying assets. U.S. equity securities classified as Level 3 are fund investments in private companies. Valuation techniques and inputs for these assets include discounted cash flow analysis, earnings multiple approaches, recent transactions, transferability restrictions, prevailing discount rates, volatilities, credit ratings and other factors. In the Other class, interests in mixed assets funds are Level 2 and U.S. life insurance contracts and non-U.S. general fund investments and insurance arrangements are Level 3. 

A reconciliation of the change in value for Level 3 assets follows: 

Annual Report | 41

(11)  Postretirement Plans 

The Company sponsors unfunded postretirement benefit plans (primarily health care) for U.S. retirees and their dependents. The components of net postretirement benefits expense for the years ended September 30 follow: 

Reconciliations of the actuarial present value of accumulated postretirement benefit obligations follow: 

As of September 30, 2011 there was $84 of deferred actuarial gains in accumulated other comprehensive income, of which approximately $10 will be amortized into earnings in 2012. The assumed discount rates used in measuring the benefit obligations as of September 30, 2011, 2010 and 2009, were 4.25 percent, 4.25 percent and 5.0 percent, respectively. The assumed health care cost trend rate for 2012 is 8.0 percent, declining to 5.0 percent in the year 2018, and for 2011 was 8.0 percent, declining to 5.0 percent in the year 2017. A one-percentage-point increase or decrease in the assumed health care cost trend rate for each year would increase or decrease 2011 postretirement expense and the benefit obligation as of September 30, 2011 less than 5 percent. The Company estimates that future health care benefit payments will be $37 in 2012, $37 in 2013, $36 in 2014, $36 in 2015, $34 in 2016 and $156 in total over the five years 2017 through 2021. 

(12)  Contingent Liabilities and Commitments 

Emerson is a party to a number of pending legal proceedings and claims, including those involving general and product liability and other matters, several of which claim substantial amounts of damages. The Company accrues for such liabilities when it is probable that future costs (including legal fees and expenses) will be incurred and such costs can be reasonably estimated. Accruals are based on developments to date; management s estimates of the outcomes of these matters; the Company s experience in contesting, litigating and settling similar matters; and any related insurance coverage. Although it is not possible to predict the ultimate outcome of these matters, the Company historically has been successful in defending itself against claims and suits that have been brought against it, and will continue to defend itself vigorously in all such matters. While the Company believes a material adverse impact is unlikely, given the inherent uncertainty of litigation, a remote possibility exists that a future development could have a material adverse impact on the Company. 

The Company enters into certain indemnification agreements in the ordinary course of business in which the indemnified party is held harmless and is reimbursed for losses incurred from claims by third parties, usually up to a prespecified limit. In connection with divestitures of certain assets or businesses, the Company often provides indemnities to the buyer with respect to certain matters including, as examples, environmental or unidentified tax liabilities related to periods prior to the disposition. Because of the uncertain nature of the indemnities, the maximum liability cannot be quantified. As such, liabilities are recorded when they are both probable and reasonably estimable. Historically, payments under indemnity arrangements have been inconsequential. 

At September 30, 2011, there were no known contingent liabilities (including guarantees, pending litigation, taxes and other claims) that management believes will be material in relation to the Company s financial statements, nor were there any material commitments outside the normal course of business. 

42 | 2011 Emerson

(13)  Income Taxes 

Pretax earnings from continuing operations consist of the following: 

The principal components of income tax expense follow: 

Reconciliations of the U.S. federal statutory tax rate to the Company s effective tax rate follow: 

Non-U.S. tax holidays reduce tax rates in certain foreign jurisdictions and are expected to expire over the next seven years. 

Following are reconciliations of the beginning and ending balances of unrecognized tax benefits before recoverability of cross-jurisdictional tax credits (federal, state and non-U.S.) and temporary differences. The amount of unrecognized tax benefits is not expected to significantly increase or decrease within the next 12 months. 

If none of the unrecognized tax benefits shown is ultimately paid, the tax provision and the calculation of the effective tax rate would be favorably impacted by $126. The Company accrues interest and penalties related to income taxes in income tax expense. Total interest and penalties recognized were $(3), $(1)  and $6 in 2011, 2010 and 2009, respectively. As of September 30, 2011 and 2010, total accrued interest and penalties were $36 and $37, respectively. 

Annual Report | 43 

The United States is the major jurisdiction for which the Company files income tax returns. Examinations by the U.S. Internal Revenue Service are complete through fiscal 2007. The status of state and non-U.S. tax examinations varies by the numerous legal entities and jurisdictions in which the Company operates. 

The principal items that gave rise to deferred income tax assets and liabilities follow: 

At September 30, 2011 and 2010, respectively, net current deferred tax assets were $400 and $374, and net noncurrent deferred tax liabilities were $668 and $634. Total income taxes paid were approximately $1,030, $890 and $780 in 2011, 2010 and 2009, respectively. Approximately half of the $242 net operating losses and tax credits can be carried forward indefinitely, while the remainder expire over varying periods. 

(14)  Stock-Based Compensation 

The Company s stock-based compensation plans include stock options, performance shares, restricted stock and restricted stock units. Although the Company has discretion, shares distributed under these plans are issued from treasury stock. 

STOCK OPTIONS 

The Company s stock option plans permit key officers and employees to purchase common stock at specified prices. Outstanding options were granted at 100 percent of the average of the high and low market prices of the Company s common stock on the date of grant, generally vest one-third each year and expire 10 years from the date of grant. Compensation expense is recognized ratably over the vesting period based on the number of options expected to vest. The Company registered a new stock option plan in May 2011 and as of September 30, 2011, 23.2 million options were available for grant under the plans. 

Changes in shares subject to option during the year ended September 30, 2011 follow: 

The weighted-average grant date fair value per option granted was $11.00, $8.51 and $4.45 for 2011, 2010 and 2009, respectively. Cash received for option exercises was $65 in 2011, $53 in 2010 and $33 in 2009. The total intrinsic value of options exercised was $49, $59 and $10 in 2011, 2010 and 2009, respectively, and the actual tax benefit realized from tax deductions related to option exercises was $16, $4 and $7, respectively. 

44 | 2011 Emerson

The grant date fair value of each option is estimated using the Black-Scholes option-pricing model. Weighted-average assumptions used in the Black-Scholes valuations for 2011, 2010 and 2009 are as follows: risk-free interest rate based on the U.S. Treasury yield of 1.9 percent, 3.0 percent and 2.4 percent; dividend yield of 2.6 percent, 3.2 percent and 4.2 percent; and expected volatility based on historical volatility of 25 percent, 25 percent and 22 percent. The expected life of an option is seven years based on historical experience and expected future exercise patterns. 

PERFORMANCE SHARES, RESTRICTED STOCK AND RESTRICTED STOCK UNITS 

The Company s incentive shares plans include performance share awards which distribute the value of common stock to key management personnel subject to certain operating performance conditions and other restrictions. Distribution is primarily in shares of common stock and partially in cash. Compensation expense is recognized over the service period based on the number of awards expected to be ultimately earned. Performance share awards are accounted for as liabilities in accordance with ASC 718,  Compensation   Stock Compensation , with compensation expense adjusted at the end of each period to reflect the change in fair value of the awards. 

As a result of the Company achieving the performance objective at the end of 2010 and employees providing an additional year of service, 4,777,248 rights to receive common shares vested and were distributed to participants in 2011 as follows: 2,841,534 issued in shares, 1,661,045 withheld for income taxes and 274,669 paid in cash. As of September 30, 2011, 5,367,146 rights to receive common shares (awarded primarily in 2010) were outstanding, contingent upon achieving the Company s performance objective through 2013 and the provision of service by the employees. 

Incentive shares plans also include restricted stock awards, which involve distribution of common stock to key management personnel subject to cliff vesting at the end of service periods ranging from three to 10 years. The fair value of outstanding awards was determined based on the average of the high and low market prices of the Company s common stock on the date of grant, with compensation expense recognized ratably over the applicable service period. In 2011, 520,000 shares of restricted stock vested as a result of participants fulfilling the applicable service requirements and, accordingly, 299,990 shares were issued while 220,010 shares were withheld for income taxes in accordance with minimum withholding requirements. In 2010, the Company performed a one-time conversion of outstanding Avocent stock awards in conjunction with the acquisition and during 2010, 685,755 of these shares vested, with 467,452 Emerson shares issued and 218,303 shares withheld for taxes in accordance with minimum withholding requirements. As of September 30, 2011, there were 1,733,956 shares of unvested restricted stock outstanding, including 115,956 shares related to the one-time Avocent conversion. 

Changes in awards outstanding but not yet earned under the incentive shares plans during the year ended September 30, 2011 

follow: 

The total fair value of shares vested under the incentive shares plans was $276, $42 and $3, respectively, in 2011, 2010 and 2009, of which $113, $15 and $1, respectively, was paid in cash, primarily for tax withholding. As of September 30, 2011, 10 million shares remained available for award under the incentive shares plans. 

Total compensation expense for the stock option and incentive shares plans was $121, $217 and $54, for 2011, 2010 and 2009, respectively. The decrease from 2010 to 2011 reflects changes in the Company s stock price and the vesting and payment of a portion of the 2007 awards early in 2011. The increase from 2009 to 2010 reflects overlap of two performance share programs during the year (2007 awards for performance through 2010 and 2010 awards for performance through 2013) and a higher stock price in 2010. Income tax benefits recognized in the income statement for these compensation arrangements during 2011, 2010 and 2009 were $32, $65 and $13, respectively. As of September 30, 2011, there was $170 of total unrecognized compensation cost related to unvested awards granted under these plans, which is expected to be recognized over a weighted-average period of 1.9 years. 

In addition to the stock option and incentive shares plans, in 2011 the Company awarded 15,656 shares of restricted stock and 3,914 restricted stock units under the restricted stock plan for non-management directors. As of September 30, 2011, 318,552 shares remained available for issuance under this plan. 

Annual Report | 45 

(15) Common Stock 

At September 30, 2011, 55 million shares of common stock were reserved for issuance under the Company s stock-based compensation plans. During 2011, 18.7 million common shares were repurchased and 4.9 million treasury shares were reissued. 

(16)  Business Segments Information 

The Company designs and supplies products and technology and delivers engineering services in a wide range of industrial, commercial and consumer markets around the world. The business segments of the Company are organized primarily by the nature of the products and services they sell. The Process Management segment provides systems and software, measurement and analytical instrumentation, valves, actuators and regulators, and services and solutions that provide precision control, monitoring and asset optimization for plants that produce power or process fluids such as petroleum, chemicals, food and beverages, pulp and paper, and pharmaceuticals. The Industrial Automation segment provides commercial and industrial motors and drives, power transmission and materials handling equipment, low, medium and high voltage alternators and other power generation equipment, materials joining and precision cleaning products, fluid power and control mechanisms, and electrical distribution equipment which are used in a wide variety of manufacturing operations to provide integrated manufacturing solutions to customers. The Network Power segment designs, manufactures, installs and maintains power systems, including power conditioning and uninterruptible AC and DC power supplies, embedded power supplies, precision cooling systems, electrical switching equipment, and integrated infrastructure monitoring and management systems for telecommunications networks, data centers and other critical applications. The Climate Technologies segment supplies compressors, temperature sensors and controls, thermostats, flow controls and remote monitoring services to all elements of the climate control industry. The Tools and Storage segment provides tools for professionals and homeowners, home and commercial storage systems, and appliance solutions. The principal distribution method for each segment is a direct sales force, although the Company also uses independent sales representatives and distributors. Due to its global presence, certain of the Company s international operations are subject to risks such as nationalization of operations, significant currency exchange rate fluctuations and restrictions on the movement of funds. 

The primary income measure used for assessing segment performance and making operating decisions is earnings before interest and income taxes. Intersegment selling prices approximate market prices. Accounting method differences between segment reporting and the consolidated financial statements are primarily management fees allocated to segments based on a percentage of sales and the accounting for pension and other retirement plans. Corporate assets are comprised of primarily cash and equivalents, investments and certain fixed assets. Summarized below is information about the Company s operations by business segment and by geographic region (also see Notes 3 through 6). 

BUSINESS SEGMENTS 

(a) 

Corporate and other primarily reflects changes in incentive stock compensation expense, which decreased $96 in 2011 due to changes in the Company s stock price and a reduced impact from incentive stock plans overlap compared to prior year, and increased $163 in 2010 related to an increase in stock price and the overlap of two plans in 2010 (see Note 14). Corporate and other in 2010 also reflects higher acquisition-related costs. 

46 | 2011 Emerson

GEOGRAPHIC 

Sales in the U.S. were $9,900, $9,101 and $8,686 for 2011, 2010 and 2009, respectively, and Asia includes sales in China of $3,079, $2,692 and $2,306, respectively. U.S.-located fixed assets were $1,853, $1,839 and $2,010. 

(17)  Other Financial Data 

Items reported in earnings during the years ended September 30 include the following: 

The Company leases facilities, transportation and office equipment and various other items under operating lease agreements. The minimum annual rentals under noncancellable long-term leases, exclusive of maintenance, taxes, insurance and other operating costs, will approximate $245 in 2012, $179 in 2013, $118 in 2014, $78 in 2015 and $54 in 2016. 

Items reported in accrued expenses include the following: 

Annual Report | 47

Other liabilities are summarized as follows: 

Other operating cash flow is comprised of the following: 

(18)  Quarterly Financial Information (Unaudited) 

Earnings per share are computed independently each period; as a result, the quarterly amounts may not sum to the calculated annual figure. Results include discontinued operations, see Note 3. 

Emerson Electric Co. common stock (symbol EMR) is listed on the New York Stock Exchange and the Chicago Stock Exchange. 

48 | 2011 Emerson

Report of Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm 

The Board of Directors and Stockholders 

Emerson Electric Co.: 

We have audited the accompanying consolidated balance sheets of Emerson Electric Co. and subsidiaries as of September 30, 2011 and 2010, and the related consolidated statements of earnings, equity, and cash flows for each of the years in the three-year period ended September 30, 2011. We also have audited Emerson Electric Co. s internal control over financial reporting as of September 30, 2011, based on criteria established in  Internal Control   Integrated Framework  issued by the Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of the Treadway Commission (COSO). Emerson Electric Co. s management is responsible for these consolidated financial statements, for maintaining effective internal control over financial reporting, and for its assessment of the effectiveness of internal control over financial reporting, included in the accompanying  Management s Report on Internal Control over Financial Reporting . Our responsibility is to express an opinion on these consolidated financial statements and an opinion on the Company s internal control over financial reporting based on our audits. 

We conducted our audits in accordance with the standards of the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board (United States). Those standards require that we plan and perform the audits to obtain reasonable assurance about whether the financial statements are free of material misstatement and whether effective internal control over financial reporting was maintained in all material respects. Our audits of the consolidated financial statements included examining, on a test basis, evidence supporting the amounts and disclosures in the financial statements, assessing the accounting principles used and significant estimates made by management, and evaluating the overall financial statement presentation. Our audit of internal control over financial reporting included obtaining an understanding of internal control over financial reporting, assessing the risk that a material weakness exists, and testing and evaluating the design and operating effectiveness of internal control based on the assessed risk. Our audits also included performing such other procedures as we considered necessary in the circumstances. We believe that our audits provide a reasonable basis for our opinions. 

A company s internal control over financial reporting is a process designed to provide reasonable assurance regarding the reliability of financial reporting and the preparation of financial statements for external purposes in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles. A company s internal control over financial reporting includes those policies and procedures that (1) pertain to the maintenance of records that, in reasonable detail, accurately and fairly reflect the transactions and dispositions of the assets of the company; (2) provide reasonable assurance that transactions are recorded as necessary to permit preparation of financial statements in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles, and that receipts and expenditures of the company are being made only in accordance with authorizations of management and directors of the company; and (3) provide reasonable assurance regarding prevention or timely detection of unauthorized acquisition, use, or disposition of the company s assets that could have a material effect on the financial statements. 

Because of its inherent limitations, internal control over financial reporting may not prevent or detect misstatements. Also, projections of any evaluation of effectiveness to future periods are subject to the risk that controls may become inadequate because of changes in conditions, or that the degree of compliance with the policies or procedures may deteriorate. 

In our opinion, the consolidated financial statements referred to above present fairly, in all material respects, the financial position of Emerson Electric Co. and subsidiaries as of September 30, 2011 and 2010, and the results of its operations and its cash flows for each of the years in the three-year period ended September 30, 2011, in conformity with U.S. generally accepted accounting principles. Also in our opinion, Emerson Electric Co. maintained, in all material respects, effective internal control over financial reporting as of September 30, 2011, based on criteria established in  Internal Control   Integrated Framework  issued by the Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of the Treadway Commission. 

Also as discussed in Note 1 to the consolidated financial statements, effective October 1, 2009, the Company changed its method of accounting for business combinations (ASC 805), noncontrolling interests (ASC 810) and earnings per share (ASC 260). 

/s/ KPMG LLP 

St. Louis, Missouri 

November 21, 2011 

Annual Report | 49 

Safe Harbor Statement 

This Annual Report contains various forward-looking statements and includes assumptions concerning Emerson s operations, future results and prospects. These forward-looking statements are based on current expectations, are subject to risk and uncertainties, and Emerson undertakes no obligation to update any such statements to reflect later developments. In connection with the  safe harbor  provisions of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995, Emerson provides the following cautionary statement identifying important economic, political and technological factors, among others, changes in which could cause the actual results or events to differ materially from those set forth in or implied by the forward-looking statements and related assumptions. 

Such factors include, but are not limited to, the following: (i) current and future business environment, including interest rates, currency exchange rates and capital and consumer spending; (ii) potential volatility of the end markets served; (iii) competitive factors and competitor responses to Emerson initiatives; (iv) development and market introduction of anticipated new products; (v) availability of raw materials and purchased components; (vi) U.S. and foreign government laws and regulations, including taxes and restrictions; (vii) outcome of pending and future litigation, including environmental compliance; (viii) stability of governments and business conditions in foreign countries, including emerging economies, which could result in nationalization of facilities or disruption of operations; (ix) penetration of emerging economies; (x) favorable environment for acquisitions, domestic and foreign, including regulatory requirements and market values of candidates; (xi) integration of acquisitions; (xii) favorable access to capital markets; and (xiii) execution of cost-reduction efforts. 

</EX-13>

<EX-21>
 4
 v236587_ex21.htm
 EXHIBIT 21

Unassociated Document 

EXHIBIT 21 

SUBSIDIARIES AND AFFILIATES OF EMERSON ELECTRIC CO. 

September 30, 2011 

LEGAL NAME  

JURISDICTION OF 

INCORPORATION  

Alco Controls, S.A. de C.V. 

Mexico 

Applied Concepts, Inc. 

Pennsylvania 

Artesyn Technologies, Inc. 

Florida 

Artesyn North America, Inc. 

Delaware 

AIH, Inc. 

Delaware 

AIHL, LLC 

Delaware 

Astec America Inc. 

Delaware 

Astec Electronics (Malaysia) Sdn Bhd 

Malaysia 

Astec International Holdings Limited 

Delaware/UK 

Emerson Network Power - Embedded Computing and Power (Hong Kong) Limited 

Hong Kong 

Astec International Limited 

Hong Kong 

Astec Advanced Power Systems (Malaysia) Sdn Bhd 

Malaysia 

Astec Advanced Power Systems (Penang) Sdn Bhd 

Malaysia 

Astec Agencies Limited 

Hong Kong 

Astec Custom Power (Hong Kong) Limited 

Hong Kong 

Astec Custom Power (Philippines) Inc. 

Philippines 

Astec Custom Power (Singapore) Pte. Ltd. 

Singapore 

Astec Electronics Company Limited 

China 

Astec Electronics (Luoding) Company Ltd. 

China 

Astec Nanjing Design Engineering Company Limited 

China 

Astec Power Supply (Shenzhen) Company Limited 

China 

Astec Power Inc. 

BVI 

Astec Power Philippines, Inc. 

Philippines 

Emerson Network Power - Embedded Power (Vietnam) Co., Ltd. 

Vietnam 

Artesyn Cayman Ltd. 

Cayman Islands 

Artesyn Cayman LP 

Cayman Islands 

Artesyn International Ltd. 

Cayman Islands 

Artesyn Ireland Ltd. 

Cayman Islands 

Artesyn Technologies Asia-Pacific Ltd. 

Hong Kong 

Artesyn Netherlands B.V. 

Netherlands 

Artesyn Holding GmbH 

Austria 

Artesyn Austria GmbH 

Austria 

Artesyn Austria GmbH   Co. KG 

Austria 

Artesyn do Brasil Comercio de Produtos de Conversao de Energia Ltda 

Brazil 

Artesyn Hungary Elektronikai Kft. 

Hungary 

Artesyn Germany GmbH 

Germany 

Artesyn Elektronische Gerate Beteiligungs-und Verwaltungs-GmbH 

Germany 

Artesyn GmbH   Co. KG 

Germany 

Emerson Network Power - Embedded Computing   Power Sarl 

France 

Emerson Network  Power - Embedded Computing GmbH 

Germany 

EMR Holdings Limited 

Japan 

Stourbridge Holdings (U.K.) Limited 

United Kingdom 

Mirroware Manufacturing Limited 

United Kingdom 

Astec Europe Limited 

United Kingdom 

Emerson Network Power - Embedded Computing UK Ltd. 

United Kingdom 

Emerson Network Power - Embedded Computing, Inc. 

Wisconsin 

Artesyn Communication Products UK Ltd. 

Scotland 

Avocent Corporation 

Delaware 

Avocent Huntsville Corp. 

Alabama 

Aperture International Limited 

United Kingdom 

Avocent do Brasil Informatica Ltda 

Brazil 

Avocent Fremont Corp. 

California 

Avocent China Technology Limited 

China 

Avocent International Holdings Limited 

Ireland 

Avocent Belgium Limited BVBA/SPRL 

Belgium 

Avocent Asia Pacific Pte. Ltd. 

Singapore 

Avocent Australia Pty. Ltd. 

Australia 

Avocent (China) Limited 

Hong Kong 

Avocent Taiwan Co., Ltd. 

Taiwan 

Avocent International Limited 

Ireland 

Page 1 

EXHIBIT 21 

SUBSIDIARIES AND AFFILIATES OF EMERSON ELECTRIC CO. 

September 30, 2011 

LEGAL NAME  

JURISDICTION OF 

INCORPORATION  

Avocent Deutschland GmbH 

Germany 

Avocent Italia Srl 

Italy 

Avocent Japan KK 

Japan 

Avocent Netherlands B.V. 

Netherlands 

Avocent Spain S.L. 

Spain 

Avocent Sweden AB 

Sweden 

Avocent Redmond Corp. 

Washington 

Avocent Texas Corp. 

Texas 

Branson Ultrasonic S.A. 

Switzerland 

Bristol, Inc. 

Delaware 

California Emerson LLC 

Delaware 

CHC Holding Corporation 

Delaware 

Chloride Power Electronics Incorporated 

Delaware 

UP Systems, Incorporated 

Delaware 

Oneac F.S.C., Inc. 

Virgin Islands 

ClosetMaid Corporation 

Florida 

Clairson, Inc. 

Delaware 

ClosetMaid de Mexico, S.A. de C.V. 

Mexico 

ClosetMaid North America, Inc. 

Delaware 

Computational Systems, Incorporated 

Tennessee 

CSI Technology, Inc. 

Delaware 

Control Products, Inc. 

Minnesota 

Emerson Climate Technologies - Solutions (Suzhou) Co., Ltd. 

China 

Control Techniques Iberia S.A. 

Spain 

Cooligy Inc. 

Delaware 

Daniel Industries, Inc. 

Delaware 

Emerson Process Management Valve Automation, Inc. 

Delaware 

Bettis Canada Ltd. 

Canada 

Bettis France Sarl 

France 

Bettis Holdings Limited 

United Kingdom 

Bettis UK Limited 

United Kingdom 

Prime Actuator Control Systems Limited 

United Kingdom 

Prime Actuator Control Systems UK Limited 

United Kingdom 

Emerson Process Management Valve Actuation LLC 

Delaware 

Hytork Controls, Inc. 

Delaware 

Daniel Automation Company 

Delaware 

Daniel Industrial, Inc. 

Delaware 

Daniel En-Fab Systems, Inc. 

Delaware 

Daniel International Limited 

United Kingdom 

Daniel Europe Limited 

United Kingdom 

Daniel Industries Limited 

United Kingdom 

Spectra-Tek Holdings Limited 

United Kingdom 

Spectra-Tek UK Limited 

United Kingdom 

Daniel Measurement Solutions Pvt. Ltd. 

India 

Spectra-Tek International Limited 

United Kingdom 

Greenfield (UK) Limited 

United Kingdom 

Daniel Measurement and Control, Inc. 

Delaware 

Daniel Industries Canada Inc. 

Canada 

Daniel Measurement Services, Inc. 

Delaware 

METCO Services Limited 

United Kingdom 

Metco Services Venezuela, C.A. 

Venezuela 

Danmasa S.A. de C.V. 

Mexico 

Hytork International Ltd. 

United Kingdom 

Hytork Controls, Inc. 

Florida 

Hytork Controls Limited 

United Kingdom 

Hytork LLC 

Delaware 

Hytork Services Limited 

United Kingdom 

EDAS (I) U.K. Limited 

United Kingdom 

EDAS (II) U.K. Limited 

United Kingdom 

Page 2 

EXHIBIT 21 

SUBSIDIARIES AND AFFILIATES OF EMERSON ELECTRIC CO. 

September 30, 2011 

LEGAL NAME  

JURISDICTION OF 

INCORPORATION  

EECO, Inc. 

Delaware 

Apple JV Holding Corp. 

Delaware 

EGS Electrical Group LLC 

Delaware 

Appleton Electric LLC 

Delaware 

Appleton Electric, S.A. de C.V. 

Mexico 

Appleton Holding Corp. 

Delaware 

EGS Electrical Group Canada Ltd. 

Canada 

Easy Heat Ltd. 

Canada 

EGS Participacoes Ltda 

Brazil 

Nutsteel Ind stria Metal rgica Ltda 

Brazil 

Easy Heat, Inc. 

Delaware 

Easy Heat Holding B.V. 

Netherlands 

Easy Heat Europe B.V. 

Netherlands 

EGS Electrical Group Romania Srl 

Romania 

EGS Holding Sarl 

France 

ATX S.A. 

France 

Easy Heat Europe SAS 

France 

EGS Private Ltd. 

Singapore 

GSEG LLC 

Delaware 

O-Z Gedney Company LLC 

Delaware 

Electrical Reliability Services, Inc. 

California 

Emerson Climate Technologies, Inc. 

Delaware 

Computer Process Controls, Inc. 

Georgia 

Emerson Retail Services, Inc. 

Delaware 

Clive Samuels and Associates, Inc. 

New Jersey 

Emerson Climate Services LLC 

Delaware 

Copeland Access +, Inc. 

Delaware 

Copeland Corporation LLC 

Delaware 

Copeland de Mexico, S.A. de C.V. 

Mexico 

Emerson Climate Technologies (India) Limited 

India 

Copeland Redevelopment Corporation 

Missouri 

CR Compressors LLC 

Delaware 

Scroll Compressors LLC 

Delaware 

Scroll Mexico LLC 

Delaware 

Emerson Electric (U.S.) Holding Corporation 

Delaware 

Automatic Switch Company 

Delaware 

ASC Investments, Inc. 

Delaware 

Asco Controls AG 

Switzerland 

Asco Controls B.V. 

Netherlands 

Asco Mideast B.V. 

Netherlands 

Asco Magnesszelep Kft. 

Hungary 

ASCO/Joucomatic Sp. z.o.o. 

Poland 

Asco/Joucomatic s.r.o. 

Czech Republic 

Asco Joucomatic ZA B.V. 

Netherlands 

ASCO/NUMATICS GmbH 

Switzerland 

Ascomation Pty. Ltd. 

Australia 

Asco Numatics Pty. Ltd. 

Australia 

Asco Valve Pty. Ltd. 

Australia 

Ascomation (NZ) Ltd. 

New Zealand 

Asco Numatics (NZ) Limited 

New Zealand 

Numatics Pty. Ltd. 

Australia 

Sirai Pty. Ltd. 

Australia 

Asco AB 

Sweden 

ASCO Japan Co., Ltd. 

Japan 

Ascomatica S.A. de C.V. 

Mexico 

Asco Services, Inc. 

New Jersey 

ASCO Switch Enterprises LLC 

Delaware 

ASCO Numatics (India) Private Limited 

India 

ASCO Power Technologies, L.P. 

Delaware 

Page 3 

EXHIBIT 21 

SUBSIDIARIES AND AFFILIATES OF EMERSON ELECTRIC CO. 

September 30, 2011 

LEGAL NAME  

JURISDICTION OF 

INCORPORATION  

ASCO Valve Enterprises LLC 

Delaware 

ASCO Valve, Inc. 

Delaware 

ASCO Controls, L.P. 

Delaware 

ASCO Valve Manufacturing, LLC 

Delaware 

Ascotech, S.A. de C.V. 

Mexico 

Ascoval Industria e Commercio Ltda 

Brazil 

Branson Ultrasonics Corporation 

Delaware 

Branson Korea Co., Ltd. 

Korea 

Branson Ultrasonidos S.A.E. 

Spain 

Branson Ultrasons SAS 

France 

El-O-Matic GmbH 

Germany 

Emerson Climate Technologies GmbH 

Germany 

Emerson Climate Technologies Limited 

United Kingdom 

Emerson Climate Technologies Refrigeration S.A. 

Belgium 

Emerson Climate Technologies S.A. 

Spain 

Emerson Climate Technologies Sarl 

France 

Emerson Climate Technologies Srl 

Italy 

Emerson Dietzenbach GmbH 

Germany 

Emerson Electric GmbH 

Germany 

Emerson Electric GmbH   Co. OHG 

Germany 

Emerson Electric Overseas Finance Corp. 

Delaware 

Emerson Process Management GmbH 

Germany 

Emerson Process Management GmbH   Co. OHG 

Germany 

epro GmbH 

Germany 

Emerson Process Management Ltda 

Brazil 

Emerson Retail Services Europe GmbH 

Germany 

Emerson Technologies Verwaltungs GmbH 

Germany 

Emerson Technologies GmbH   Co. OHG 

Germany 

Emersub LXXXIV, Inc. 

Delaware 

Emersub LXXXVI, Inc. 

Delaware 

EMR Holdings (France) SAS 

France 

Asco Joucomatic S.A. 

France 

Asco Numatics GmbH 

Germany 

Fluidocontrol S.A. 

Spain 

Joucomatic S.A. 

Belgium 

Avocent France SAS 

France 

Company Financiere de Chaussey, S.A. 

France 

Emerson Network Power Energy Systems, SA 

France 

Emerson Network Power S.A. 

France 

Francel S.A. 

France 

Leroy-Somer S.A. 

France 

Bertrand Polico SAS 

France 

Constructions Electriques de Beaucourt SAS 

France 

ESO SAS 

France 

ESO CENTRE EST Sarl 

France 

ESO CENTRE OUEST Sarl 

France 

ESO Ile de France Sarl 

France 

ESO OUEST Sarl 

France 

ESO NORD EST Sarl 

France 

ESO NORMANDIE Sarl 

France 

ESO SUD EST Sarl 

France 

ESO SUD OUEST Sarl 

France 

Etablissements Trepeau SAS 

France 

Girard Transmissions SAS 

France 

I.M.I. Kft 

Hungary 

La Francaise de Manutention SAS 

France 

Leroy-Somer Denmark A/S 

Denmark 

Leroy Somer Elektomekanik Sistemler Ticaret Ltd. STI 

Turkey 

Leroy-Somer Iberica S.A. 

Spain 

Page 4 

EXHIBIT 21 

SUBSIDIARIES AND AFFILIATES OF EMERSON ELECTRIC CO. 

September 30, 2011 

LEGAL NAME  

JURISDICTION OF 

INCORPORATION  

Teilsa Servicios, S.L. 

Spain 

Leroy-Somer Ltd. 

Greece 

Leroy-Somer Limited 

United Kingdom 

Leroy Somer Marbaise GmbH 

Germany 

Leroy-Somer Motores E Sistemas Electro Mecanicas CDA 

Portugal 

Leroy-Somer B.V. 

Netherlands 

Leroy-Somer Norden AB 

Sweden 

Leroy-Somer Norge A/S 

Norway 

Leroy-Somer NV 

Belgium 

ESO Belgium S.A. 

Belgium 

Leroy-Somer Finland OY 

Finland 

Leroy Somer (Pty) Ltd. (South Africa) 

South Africa 

Leroy-Somer (Pty) Ltd. 

Australia 

Leroy-Somer S. E. A. Pte. Ltd. 

Singapore 

Leroy-Somer SA 

Switzerland 

Leroy-Somer SpA 

Italy 

E.M.S. Elettro Multi Service Srl 

Italy 

M.L.S. Holice, spol s.r.o. 

Czech Republic 

MLS Industries Inc. 

Delaware 

Yorba Linda International, Inc. 

Delaware 

Moteurs Leroy-Somer 

France 

Moteurs Patay SAS 

France 

Societe Anonyme de Mecanique et D outillage du Vivarais SA 

France 

Ridgid France SAS 

France 

Marbaise Hanlo LS GmbH 

Germany 

Ridge Tool GmbH 

Germany 

Ridge Tool GmbH   Co. OHG 

Germany 

Ridgid Peddinghaus Werkzeug GmbH 

Germany 

Rosemount Inc. 

Minnesota 

Control Techniques - Americas, Inc. 

Delaware 

Control Techniques - Americas LLC 

Delaware 

Fincor Holding, LLC 

Delaware 

Dieterich Standard, Inc. 

Delaware 

Emerson Process Management AB 

Sweden 

Emerson Process Management A/S (Denmark) 

Denmark 

Emerson Process Management AS 

Norway 

Emerson Process Management Holding AG 

Switzerland 

Emerson Process Management AG 

Switzerland 

Emerson EAD 

Bulgaria 

Emerson LLC 

Azerbaijan 

Emerson LLC 

Ukraine 

Emerson LLP 

Kazakhstan 

Emerson Process Management Kft. 

Hungary 

Emerson Process Management Romania Srl 

Romania 

Emerson Process Management sp. z.o.o. 

Poland 

Emerson Process Management Ticaret Limited Sirketi 

Turkey 

Emerson Process Management s.r.o. 

Czech Republic 

Emerson Process Management s.r.o. 

Slovakia 

Emerson TOV 

Ukraine 

Emerson Process Management Power and Water Solutions Sp. z.o.o. 

Poland 

Emerson Process Management Asia Pacific Pte. Ltd. 

Singapore 

Emerson Process Management Manufacturing (M) Sdn Bhd 

Malaysia 

Emerson Process Management (Shanghai) International Trading Co., Ltd. 

China 

Emerson Process Management Valve Automation (M) Sdn Bhd 

Malaysia 

Emerson Process Management (India) Pvt. Ltd. 

India 

Emerson Process Management Korea Ltd. 

Korea 

Emerson Process Management Oy 

Finland 

Emerson Process Management, S.A. de C.V. 

Mexico 

Emerson Process Management, S.L. 

Spain 

Page 5 

EXHIBIT 21 

SUBSIDIARIES AND AFFILIATES OF EMERSON ELECTRIC CO. 

September 30, 2011 

LEGAL NAME  

JURISDICTION OF 

INCORPORATION  

P I Components Corp. 

Texas 

Rosemount Analytical Inc. 

Delaware 

Rosemount China Inc. 

Minnesota 

Rosemount Nuclear Instruments, Inc. 

Delaware 

Xomox Uruguaya S.A. 

Uruguay 

Emerson Power Transmission Corporation 

Delaware 

Emerson Chain, Inc. 

Delaware 

Emerson Power Transmission Manufacturing 

Missouri 

Emerson Power Transmission Ithaca, Inc. 

Delaware 

Rollway Bearing International Ltd. 

Delaware 

Rollway Bearing N.V. 

Belgium 

EPT Investments, Inc. 

Delaware 

McGill Manufacturing Company, Inc. 

Indiana 

Liebert Corporation 

Ohio 

Alber Corp. 

Florida 

Atlas Asia Limited 

Hong Kong 

Emerson Network Power Software (Shenzhen) Co., Ltd. 

China 

Emerson Network Power Australia Pty. Ltd. 

Australia 

Atlas Air Australia Pty. Ltd. 

Australia 

Emerson Network Power DHC B.V. 

Netherlands 

Emerson Network Power do Brasil Ltda 

Brazil 

Emerson Network Power (Hong Kong) Limited 

Hong Kong 

Wuhan Liebert Computer Power Support System Ltd. 

China 

Emerson Network Power (India) Private Limited 

India 

Fisher Sanmar Limited 

India 

Leroy Somer India Private Limited 

India 

Emerson Network Power, Liebert Services, Inc. 

Delaware 

Emerson Network Power (Singapore) Pte. Ltd. 

Singapore 

Emerson Network Power (Malaysia) Sdn Bhd 

Malaysia 

Kn rr Pte. Ltd. 

Singapore 

Spectra Systems Sdn Bhd 

Malaysia 

Emerson Network Power Surge Protection, Inc. 

New York 

Emerson Network Power (Thailand) Co. Ltd. 

Thailand 

Liebert Field Services, Inc. 

Delaware 

Liebert North America, Inc. 

Delaware 

Liebert Property Holdings, L.L.C. 

Delaware 

Micro Motion, Inc. 

Colorado 

Ridge Tool Company 

Ohio 

Ridge Tool (Australia) Pty. Ltd. 

Australia 

Ridge Tool Manufacturing Company 

Delaware 

Ridge Tool Pattern Company 

Delaware 

RIDGID, Inc. 

Delaware 

Ridgid Italia Srl 

Italy 

Ridgid Online, Inc. 

Ohio 

Ridgid Werkzeuge AG 

Switzerland 

Therm-O-Disc, Incorporated 

Ohio 

Componentes Avanzados de Mexico S.A. de C.V. 

Mexico 

Controles de Temperatura S.A. de C.V. 

Mexico 

E.G.P. Corporation 

Delaware 

Emermex S.A. de C.V. 

Mexico 

Emerson Arabia, Inc. 

Delaware 

Emerson Process Management Arabia Limited 

Saudi Arabia 

Emersub 4 LLC 

Delaware 

Emerson Climate Technologies Mexico S.A. de C.V. 

Mexico 

Emerson Electric (Asia) Limited 

Hong Kong 

Branson Ultrasonics (Asia Pacific) Co. Ltd. 

Hong Kong 

Emerson Electric (South Asia) Pte. Ltd. 

Singapore 

Emerson (Philippines) Corporation 

Philippines 

Emerson Technology Service (Shenzhen) Co., Ltd. 

China 

Page 6 

EXHIBIT 21 

SUBSIDIARIES AND AFFILIATES OF EMERSON ELECTRIC CO. 

September 30, 2011 

LEGAL NAME  

JURISDICTION OF 

INCORPORATION  

Emerson Electric II, C.A. 

Venezuela 

Emerson Electric de Colombia Ltda 

Colombia 

Emerson Electric International, Inc. 

Delaware 

Emerson Electric Ireland Limited 

Bermuda 

Emersub Treasury Ireland 

Ireland 

Emerson Electric (Mauritius) Ltd. 

Mauritius 

Emerson Electric Co. (India) Private Ltd. 

India 

Westinghouse Electric Pvt. Limited 

Mauritius 

Emerson Process Management Power   Water Solutions India Private Limited 

India 

Emerson Electric Nederland B.V. 

Netherlands 

Aegir Norge Holding AS 

Norway 

Roxar AS 

Norway 

CorrOcean Mareco AS 

Norway 

CorrOcean Srl 

Italy 

RFM Holding AS 

Norway 

PolyOil Ltd. 

United Kingdom 

Roxar do Brasil Ltda 

Brazil 

Roxar Flow Measurement AS 

Norway 

Roxar Flow Measurement, Inc. 

Delaware 

Roxar Flow Measurement Ltd. 

United Kingdom 

Roxar Flow Measurement Sdn Bhd 

Malaysia 

Roxar International AS 

Norway 

Roxar Nigeria Ltd. 

Nigeria 

Roxar Pty. Ltd. 

Australia 

Roxar Saudi Company 

Saudi Arabia 

Roxar Holding AS 

Norway 

Energy Scitech Ltd. 

United Kingdom 

Roxar Xworks AS 

Norway 

RSS Software Holding AS 

Norway 

Roxar Canada Ltd. 

Canada 

Roxar de Mexico S.A. de C.V. 

Mexico 

Roxar de Venezuela C.A. 

Venezuela 

Roxar, Inc. 

Delaware 

Roxar Ltd. 

United Kingdom 

Roxar Maximum Reservoir Performance WLL 

Bahrain 

Roxar Services AS 

Norway 

Roxar Services OOO 

Russia 

Roxar Technologies AS 

Norway 

Roxar Software Solutions AS 

Norway 

Roxar Strategic Staffing S.A. de C.V. 

Mexico 

Roxar Vietnam Company Ltd. 

Vietnam 

ALCO CONTROLS, spol s.r.o. 

Czech Republic 

Branson Ultrasonics B.V. 

Netherlands 

Beckman Industrial B.V. 

Netherlands 

Damcos Holding A/S 

Denmark 

Damcos A/S 

Denmark 

Emerson Process Management Marine Solutions Korea Co., Ltd. 

Korea 

Emerson Process Management Marine Systems (Shanghai) Co., Ltd. 

China 

El-O-Matic B.V. 

Netherlands 

El-O-Matic Valve Actuators (F.E.) Pte. Ltd. 

Singapore 

Emerson Process Management (South Africa) (Proprietary) Ltd. 

South Africa 

Electrische Apparatenfabriek Capax B.V. 

Netherlands 

EMERSON A.S. 

Slovakia 

Emerson LLC 

Russia 

Emerson Srl 

Romania 

EMERSON CLIMATE TECHNOLOGIES, s.r.o. 

Czech Republic 

Emerson Electric spol s.r.o. 

Czech Republic 

Emerson Network Power Pakistan (Private) Limited 

Pakistan 

Emerson Network Power (Vietnam) Co., Ltd. 

Vietnam 

Page 7 

EXHIBIT 21 

SUBSIDIARIES AND AFFILIATES OF EMERSON ELECTRIC CO. 

September 30, 2011 

LEGAL NAME  

JURISDICTION OF 

INCORPORATION  

Emerson Process Management B.V. 

Netherlands 

Emerson Process Management (Vietnam) Co., Ltd. 

Vietnam 

EMRSN HLDG B.V. 

Netherlands 

Emerson Network Power B.V. 

Netherlands 

Emerson Process Management Flow B.V. 

Netherlands 

Fisher-Rosemount Temperature B.V. 

Netherlands 

Fusite, B.V. 

Netherlands 

ORTRUD Verwaltungsgesellschaft mbH 

Germany 

Kn rr-Holding GmbH 

Germany 

Kn rr GmbH 

Germany 

Kn rr AB 

Sweden 

Kn rr AG 

Switzerland 

Kn rr BV 

Netherlands 

Kn rr Electronics GmbH 

Germany 

Kn rr Electronics GmbH   Co. Grundbesitz OHG 

Germany 

Kn rr-Ercotec GmbH   Grundst cksverwaltung KG 

Germany 

Kn rr Electronics (Shanghai) Co. Ltd. 

China 

Kn rr GmbH   Co. Grundbesitz OHG 

Germany 

Kn rr Holding Ltda 

Brazil 

Kn rr Ltda 

Brazil 

Kn rr Innovation GmbH 

Germany 

Kn rr Ltd. 

United Kingdom 

Kn rr Lommatec Mechanik f r die Elektronik Beteiligungs und Verwaltungs GmbH 

Germany 

Kn rr Sarl 

France 

Kn rr s.r.o. 

Czech Republic 

Kn rr Technical Furniture GmbH 

Germany 

Kn rr-Ercotec GmbH 

Germany 

Kn rr International GmbH 

Germany 

Therm-O-Disc Europe B.V. 

Netherlands 

Therm-O-Disc (Vietnam) Co., Ltd. 

Vietnam 

Emerson Electric Puerto Rico, Inc. 

Delaware 

Emerson Puerto Rico, Inc. 

Delaware 

Emerson Electric (Taiwan) Company Limited 

Taiwan 

Emerson Finance LLC 

Delaware 

Emerson Middle East, Inc. 

Delaware 

Emerson Network Power, Energy Systems, North America, Inc. 

Delaware 

Emerson Network Power Exportel, S.A. de C.V. 

Mexico 

Emerson Network Power, Inc. 

Texas 

Emerson Sice Srl 

Italy 

Asco Numatics Sirai Srl 

Italy 

Branson Ultrasuoni Srl 

Italy 

CDZ.T Srl 

Italy 

Dixell Srl 

Italy 

Emerson Network Power Holding Srl 

Italy 

Emerson Network Power Srl 

Italy 

Emerson Network Power Enterprise Srl 

Italy 

Emerson Network Power Sp. z.o.o. 

Poland 

Liebert Hiross Holding GmbH 

Germany 

Emerson Network Power GmbH 

Germany 

Emerson Network Power Kft. 

Hungary 

Emerson Process Management Srl 

Italy 

System Plast Srl 

Italy 

System Plast GmbH 

Germany 

System Plast International B.V. 

Netherlands 

System Plast, LLC 

North Carolina 

SPPA LLC 

Pennsylvania 

Solus Industrial Innovations, LLC 

Delaware 

System Plast USA de Mexico, S. de R.L. de C.V. 

Mexico 

System Plast Ltd. 

United Kingdom 

Page 8 

EXHIBIT 21 

SUBSIDIARIES AND AFFILIATES OF EMERSON ELECTRIC CO. 

September 30, 2011 

LEGAL NAME  

JURISDICTION OF 

INCORPORATION  

System Plast Ltda 

Brazil 

System Plast SAS 

France 

Emerson Telecommunication Products, LLC 

Delaware 

JTP Industries, Inc. 

Delaware 

Emerson Network Power Connectivity Solutions, Inc. 

Delaware 

Emerson Electronic Connector and Components do Brasil, Ltda 

Brazil 

Emerson Mexico Corporate Services S de R.L. de C.V. 

Mexico 

LoDan de Mexico, S.A. de C.V. 

Mexico 

Stratos International, Inc. 

Delaware 

Advanced Interconnection Technology LLC 

Delaware 

Paracer, Inc. 

Delaware 

Rapidwerks LLC 

Delaware 

Sterling Holding Company 

Delaware 

Quality Components, Inc. 

Delaware 

Semflex, Inc. 

Delaware 

Swiss Precision Products, Inc. 

Delaware 

TQ Management Corporation 

Delaware 

Trompeter Electronics, Inc. 

Delaware 

STRATOS Lightwave LLC 

Delaware 

Stratos Lightwave-Florida Incorporated 

Delaware 

Tsunami Optics, Inc. 

California 

Northern Technologies, Inc. 

Idaho 

Emerson Venezuela C.A. 

Venezuela 

Emerson Ventures Inc. 

Delaware 

Emerson WFC, Inc. 

Delaware 

Emersub 3 LLC 

Delaware 

Emersub 14 LLC 

Delaware 

Vilter Manufacturing LLC 

Wisconsin 

Emersub CII, Inc. 

Delaware 

Emersub XLVI, Inc. 

Nevada 

Copesub, Inc. 

Delaware 

Alliance Compressors LLC 

Delaware 

Emersub LII, Inc. 

Delaware 

Emersub XCI, Inc. 

Delaware 

Emersub Italia Srl 

Italy 

International Gas Distribution SA 

Luxembourg 

O.M.T. OFFICINA MECCANICA TARTARINI Srl 

Italy 

EMR Foundation, Inc. 

Missouri 

EMR Holdings, Inc. 

Delaware 

Branson de Mexico, S.A. de C.V. 

Mexico 

Copeland Compresores Hermeticos, S.A. de C.V. 

Mexico 

Copeland Korea Inc. 

Korea 

Emerson Appliance Solutions (Shenzhen) Co. Ltd. 

China 

Emerson Argentina S.A. 

Argentina 

Emerson Climate Technologies Australia Pty. Ltd. 

Australia 

Emerson del Peru S.A.C. 

Peru 

Emerson d.o.o. 

Croatia 

Emerson Electric Chile Ltda 

Chile 

Emerson Electric C.R. Srl 

Costa Rica 

Emerson Electric de Mexico S.A. de C.V. 

Mexico 

Emerson Electric do Brasil Ltda 

Brazil 

Emerson Comercio em Tecnologia de Climatizacao Ltda 

Brazil 

Emerson Electric Holdings (Switzerland) GmbH 

Switzerland 

Emerson Process Management Co., Ltd. 

China 

EMR Emerson Holdings (Switzerland) GmbH 

Switzerland 

EMR (Asia) Limited 

Hong Kong 

Emerson Electric (China) Holdings Co., Ltd. 

China 

ASCO Valve (Shanghai) Co., Ltd. 

China 

Beijing Rosemount Far East Instrument Co., Ltd. 

China 

Page 9 

EXHIBIT 21 

SUBSIDIARIES AND AFFILIATES OF EMERSON ELECTRIC CO. 

September 30, 2011 

LEGAL NAME  

JURISDICTION OF 

INCORPORATION  

Branson Ultrasonics (Shanghai) Co., Ltd. 

China 

ClosetMaid (Jiangmen) Storage Limited 

China 

Emerson Beijing Instrument Co. Ltd. 

China 

Emerson Climate Technologies (Shanghai) Co., Ltd. 

China 

Emerson Climate Technologies (Shenyang) Refrigeration Co., Ltd. 

China 

Emerson Climate Technologies (Suzhou) Co., Ltd. 

China 

Emerson Climate Technologies (Suzhou) Research   Development Co., Ltd. 

China 

Emerson Electric (Shenzhen) Co. Ltd. 

China 

Emerson eResource (Xi'an) Co., Ltd. 

China 

Emerson Fusite Electric (Shenzhen) Co. Ltd. 

China 

Emerson Junkang Enterprise (Shanghai) Co., Ltd. 

China 

Emerson Machinery Equipment (Shenzhen) Co., Ltd. 

China 

Emerson Network Power (Mianyang) Co., Ltd. 

China 

Emerson Network Power (Xi'an) Co., Ltd. 

China 

Emerson Network Power Connectivity Solutions (Shanghai) Co., Ltd. 

China 

Emerson Network Power Co., Ltd. 

China 

Emerson Power Transmission (Zhangzhou) Co., Ltd. 

China 

Emerson Process Management Flow Technologies Co., Ltd. 

China 

Emerson Process Management Power   Water Solutions (Shanghai) Co., Ltd. 

China 

Emerson Process Management (Tianjin) Valves Co., Ltd. 

China 

Emerson Process Management Valve Automation (Tianjin) Co., Ltd. 

China 

Emerson Professional Tools (Shanghai) Co., Ltd. 

China 

Emerson Trading (Shanghai) Co., Ltd. 

China 

Fisher Jeon Gas Equipment (Chengdu) Co., Ltd. 

China 

Fisher Regulators (Shanghai) Co., Ltd. 

China 

Leroy Somer Electro-Technique (Fuzhou) Co., Ltd. 

China 

Emerson Network Power (Jiangmen) Co., Ltd. 

China 

Emerson Electric Korea Ltd. 

Korea 

Emerson Electric (M) Sdn Bhd 

Malaysia 

Emerson Electric Poland Sp. z.o.o. 

Poland 

FZN Marbaise LS Sp. z.o.o. 

Poland 

Emerson Energy Systems Sdn Bhd 

Malaysia 

Emerson Network Power Limited 

Nigeria 

Emerson Network Power (Philippines), Inc. 

Philippines 

Emerson Network Power (South Africa) (Pty) Ltd 

South Africa 

Emerson Network Power, S.A. 

Spain 

Jaure, S.A. 

Spain 

Emerson Panama S. de R.L. 

Panama 

Emerson Process Management Europe GmbH 

Switzerland 

Emerson Process Management Magyarorszag Kft. 

Hungary 

Emerson Process Management NV 

Belgium 

Emerson Puerto Rico, Inc. 

Puerto Rico 

Emerson (Thailand) Limited 

Thailand 

Emersub 5 LLC 

Delaware 

Emersub Mexico, Inc. 

Nevada 

ClosetMaid Reynosa S. de R.L. de C.V. 

Mexico 

Copeland Scroll Compresores de Mexico S.A. de C.V. 

Mexico 

Daniel Measurement and Control, S. de R.L. de C.V. 

Mexico 

Emerpowsys, S. de R.L. de C.V. 

Mexico 

Emerson Electronic Connector and Components, S.A. de C.V. 

Mexico 

Emerson Network Power Embedded Computing, S. de R.L. de C.V. 

Mexico 

Emerson Tool and Appliance Company, S. de R.L. de C.V. 

Mexico 

Emerson Tool Company de Mexico, S. de R.L. de C.V. 

Mexico 

Emersub 1 LLC 

Delaware 

Intermetro de Acuna S. de R.L. de C.V. 

Mexico 

InterMetro de Mexico, S. de R.L. de C.V. 

Mexico 

Emersub XXXVI, Inc. 

Delaware 

Digital Appliance Controls (UK) Limited 

United Kingdom 

Control Techniques Limited 

United Kingdom 

Page 10 

EXHIBIT 21 

SUBSIDIARIES AND AFFILIATES OF EMERSON ELECTRIC CO. 

September 30, 2011 

LEGAL NAME  

JURISDICTION OF 

INCORPORATION  

Control Techniques GmbH 

Germany 

Reta Anlagenbau GmbH 

Germany 

SSB Group GmbH 

Germany 

SSB Management GmbH 

Germany 

SSB Wind Systems GmbH   Co. KG 

Germany 

SSB Wind Energy Technology (Qingdao) Co., Ltd. 

China 

SSB-Antriebstechnik-Verwaltungs-und Beteiligungsgesellschaft mbH 

Germany 

Control Techniques Asia-Pacific Pte. Ltd. 

Singapore 

Control Techniques Drives (Malaysia) Sdn Bhd 

Malaysia 

Control Techniques Singapore Pte Limited 

Singapore 

Control Techniques Australia Pty. Ltd. 

Australia 

Control Techniques Bermuda Limited 

Bermuda 

Control Techniques Drives Limited 

United Kingdom 

Control Techniques Dynamics Limited 

United Kingdom 

Evershed Powerotor Limited 

United Kingdom 

Moore Reed   Company Limited 

United Kingdom 

Control Techniques Southern Africa (Pty) Ltd. 

South Africa 

Control Techniques SpA 

Italy 

Control Techniques Worldwide BV 

Netherlands 

Control Techniques AG 

Switzerland 

Control Techniques BV 

Netherlands 

Control Techniques Brno s.r.o. 

Czech Republic 

Control Techniques China Pte. Ltd. 

Hong Kong 

Control Techniques Endustriyel Kontrol Sistemerli Sanayi ve Ticaret AS 

Turkey 

Control Techniques India Private Limited 

India 

Control Techniques Elpro Automation Limited 

India 

DrivesShop Limited 

United Kingdom 

Foray 600 Limited 

United Kingdom 

Foray 606 Limited 

United Kingdom 

Emerson Holding Company Limited 

United Kingdom 

Asco Joucomatic Ltd. 

United Kingdom 

Asco Power Technologies Limited 

United Kingdom 

Bristol Babcock Limited 

United Kingdom 

Computational Systems Limited 

United Kingdom 

Copeland Limited 

United Kingdom 

CSA Consulting Engineers Ltd. 

United Kingdom 

El-O-Matic Limited 

United Kingdom 

Emerson Electric U.K. Limited 

United Kingdom 

Bray Lectroheat Limited 

United Kingdom 

Buehler Europe Limited 

United Kingdom 

Bannerscientific Limited 

United Kingdom 

Buehler UK Limited 

United Kingdom 

Metaserv Limited 

United Kingdom 

Metallurgical Services Laboratories Limited 

United Kingdom 

Emerson FZE 

UAE 

Emerson Climate Technologies FZE 

UAE 

Emerson Network Power Limited 

United Kingdom 

Liebert Swindon Limited 

United Kingdom 

Emerson Energy Systems (UK) Limited 

United Kingdom 

Emerson Network Power Connectivity Solutions Limited 

United Kingdom 

Midwest Microwave Limited 

United Kingdom 

Emerson Process Management Limited 

United Kingdom 

Emerson Process Management Distribution Limited 

United Kingdom 

Fisher-Rosemount Properties Limited 

United Kingdom 

Emerson Process Management Shared Services Limited 

United Kingdom 

F-R Properties (UK) Limited 

United Kingdom 

EMR Barnstaple Limited 

United Kingdom 

TopWorx UK Limited 

United Kingdom 

Emerson Process Management Services Limited 

United Kingdom 

Page 11 

EXHIBIT 21 

SUBSIDIARIES AND AFFILIATES OF EMERSON ELECTRIC CO. 

September 30, 2011 

LEGAL NAME  

JURISDICTION OF 

INCORPORATION  

Emerson UK Trustees Limited 

United Kingdom 

Fisher Controls Limited 

United Kingdom 

Farris Engineering Limited 

United Kingdom 

Fisher Governor Company Limited 

United Kingdom 

MDC Technology Limited 

United Kingdom 

MDC Technology Trustees Limited 

United Kingdom 

Mobrey Group Limited 

United Kingdom 

Mobrey Overseas Sales Limited 

United Kingdom 

Mobrey Limited 

United Kingdom 

Oaksmere Refrigeration Design   Consultancy Limited 

United Kingdom 

Pactrol Controls Limited 

United Kingdom 

EMR Manufacturing (M) Sdn Bhd 

Malaysia 

EMR Worldwide B.V. 

Netherlands 

EMERSON DHC B.V. 

Netherlands 

Emerson Electric (Thailand) Limited 

Thailand 

Emersub 7 LLC 

Delaware 

Emersub 8 LLC 

Delaware 

Emersub 9 LLC 

Delaware 

Emersub 10 LLC 

Delaware 

Emersub 11 LLC 

Delaware 

Emersub 12 LLC 

Delaware 

EMR (Mauritius) Ltd. 

Mauritius 

Trident Powercraft Private Limited 

India 

Emerson Electric Canada Limited 

Canada 

Emerson Holding Sweden AB 

Sweden 

Emerson Sweden AB 

Sweden 

Emerson Network Power Energy Systems AB 

Sweden 

Rosemount Tank Radar AB 

Sweden 

Emerson Process Management Marine Solutions Singapore Pte. Ltd. 

Singapore 

Rosemount Tank Gauging India Pvt. Ltd. 

India 

Rosemount Tank Gauging Middle East SPC 

Bahrain 

Emerson USD Finance Company Limited 

United Kingdom 

Net Safety Monitoring Inc. 

Canada 

Net Safety Monitoring Singapore Pte. Ltd. 

Singapore 

Net Safety Monitoring USA Inc. 

Nevada 

Rutherfurd Acquisitions Limited 

United Kingdom 

Chloride Group Limited 

United Kingdom 

Advanced Design Electronics Limited 

United Kingdom 

Chloride Batteries Limited 

United Kingdom 

Chloride Electronics Limited 

United Kingdom 

Emergency Power Systems Limited 

United Kingdom 

Oneac Limited 

United Kingdom 

Chloride Espana, S.A.U. 

Spain 

Chloride France S.A. 

France 

AST Electronique Services S.A.S. 

France 

Automatismes Energie Electronique Systems SAS 

France 

France Onduleurs Ondyne Sarl 

France 

Chloride Holdings UK Limited 

United Kingdom 

Chloride Limited 

United Kingdom 

Fleetness 174 Limited 

United Kingdom 

Exide Electronics Limited 

United Kingdom 

Masterguard GmbH 

Germany 

Chloride Nominees Limited 

United Kingdom 

Chloride Pension Trust Limited 

United Kingdom 

Chloride Power Protection Limited 

Thailand 

Chloride Power Protection Pty. Ltd. 

Australia 

Chloride Supplies Limited 

United Kingdom 

Chloride do Brasil Limitada 

Brazil 

Chloride Holdings Limited 

United Kingdom 

Page 12 

EXHIBIT 21 

SUBSIDIARIES AND AFFILIATES OF EMERSON ELECTRIC CO. 

September 30, 2011 

LEGAL NAME  

JURISDICTION OF 

INCORPORATION  

Chloride Srl 

Italy 

Chloride Koexa S.A. 

Argentina 

Chloride Power Protection China Ltd. 

China 

Chloride Power Protection Polska Sp. z.o.o. 

Poland 

Chloride Secure Power Protection Philippines Inc. 

Philippines 

Chloride Singapore Pte. Limited 

Singapore 

CPE Chloride Power Electronics S.A. 

Spain 

Chloride Portugal - Artigos Electronicos, Limitada 

Portugal 

Chloride UPS Svenska AB 

Sweden 

DB Power Electronics Private Limited 

India 

Masterguard do Brasil Limitada 

Brazil 

Masterguard Guc Kaynaklari Limited Sirketi 

Turkey 

Power   Electronic Services Limited 

Ireland 

Chloride U.K. Limited 

United Kingdom 

Continuous Power International Limited 

United Kingdom 

Continuous Power Limited 

United Kingdom 

Exide Limited 

United Kingdom 

Fleetness 173 Limited 

United Kingdom 

Masterpower Electronics Limited 

Scotland 

Ondyne (UK) Limited 

United Kingdom 

Stocksave Limited 

United Kingdom 

Vertu Security Limited 

United Kingdom 

Viper Security Limited 

United Kingdom 

Bardic Emergency Systems Limited 

United Kingdom 

Chloride Investments Limited 

Guernsey 

Chloride Financing Limited 

United Kingdom 

Chloride Financing UK Limited 

United Kingdom 

Fisher-Rosemount Peru S.A.C. 

Peru 

F-R Tecnologias de Flujo, S.A. de C.V. 

Mexico 

Motoreductores U.S., S.A. de C.V. 

Mexico 

NetworkPower Ecuador S.A. 

Ecuador 

PT. Emerson Indonesia 

Indonesia 

RAC Technologies (Israel) Ltd. 

Israel 

Rey-Lam, S. de R.L. de C.V. 

Mexico 

Termotec de Chihuahua, S.A. de C.V. 

Mexico 

Tranmet Holdings Limited 

United Kingdom 

Tranmet Holdings B.V. 

Netherlands 

Industrial Group Metran CJSC 

Russia 

Metran-Export CJSC 

Russia 

Firma Metran LLC 

Russia 

EPMCO Holdings, Inc. 

Delaware 

Emerson Process Management Regulator Technologies, Inc. 

Delaware 

Fromex, S.A. de C.V. 

Mexico 

Fisher Controls International LLC 

Delaware 

Emerson Process Management Australia Pty Limited 

Australia 

Emerson Electric Australia Co. Pty. Ltd. 

Australia 

Emerson Process Management New Zealand Limited 

New Zealand 

Emerson Process Management China Ltd. 

Hong Kong 

Fisher Controles de Mexico, S.A. de C.V. 

Mexico 

Instrument   Valve Services Company 

Delaware 

Nippon Fisher Co., Ltd. 

Japan 

Fisher-Rosemount Systems, Inc. 

Delaware 

Emerson Process Management LLLP 

Delaware 

Emerson Process Management Dominicana, S.A. 

Dominican Republic 

Emerson Process Management Power   Water Solutions, Inc. 

Delaware 

Turbine Control Service Associates, Inc. 

Pennsylvania 

Emerson Process Management SAS 

France 

Emerson Process Management, Lda 

Portugal 

Page 13 

EXHIBIT 21 

SUBSIDIARIES AND AFFILIATES OF EMERSON ELECTRIC CO. 

September 30, 2011 

LEGAL NAME  

JURISDICTION OF 

INCORPORATION  

Fiberconn Assemblies Morocco Sarl 

Morocco 

Fusite Corporation 

Ohio 

Emerson Japan Ltd. 

Japan 

Fusite Land Company 

Delaware 

General Equipment and Manufacturing Company, Inc. 

Kentucky 

TopWorx PTE Ltd. 

Singapore 

TopWorx RSA (Proprietary) Limited 

South Africa 

High Voltage Maintenance Corporation 

Ohio 

Hiross India Private Limited 

India 

Humboldt Hermetic Motor Corp. 

Delaware 

Woodstock Land Company LLC 

Missouri 

Innovative Control Systems, Inc. 

New York 

Kato Engineering Inc. 

Delaware 

Knaack LLC 

Delaware 

Kop-Flex, Inc. 

Delaware 

Kop-Flex Canada Limited 

Canada 

Metaloy, Inc. 

Massachusetts 

Metropolitan International, Inc. 

Nevada 

InterMetro Industries Corporation 

Nevada 

InterMetro Industries Corporation 

Delaware 

InterMetro Industries B.V. 

Netherlands 

Metro Industries, Inc. 

Nevada 

Metropolitan Wire (Canada) Ltd. 

Canada 

Metropolitan Wire Corporation 

Pennsylvania 

Motores Hermeticos del Sur, S.A. de C.V. 

Mexico 

Numatics, Incorporated 

Michigan 

Asco Numatics (Taiwan) Co., Ltd. 

Taiwan 

Numatics de Mexico, S.A. de C.V. 

Mexico 

Numatics GmbH 

Germany 

ProTeam, Inc. 

Idaho 

ProTeam (China) Limited 

Hong Kong 

Ridge Tool Europe NV 

Belgium 

Ridgid Scandinavia A/S 

Denmark 

Von Arx AG 

Switzerland 

Von Arx GmbH 

Germany 

Rosemount Tank Gauging North America Inc. 

Texas 

TAG, Inc. 

Delaware 

Emersub 6 LLC 

Delaware 

The Automation Group, L.P. 

Texas 

Termocontroles de Juarez, S.A. de C.V. 

Mexico 

Tescom Corporation 

Minnesota 

Tescom Europe Management GmbH 

Germany 

Tescom Europe GmbH   Co. KG 

Germany 

Thunderline Z, Inc. 

Delaware 

Transmisiones de Potencia Emerson, S.A. de C.V. 

Mexico 

Page 14 

</EX-21>

<EX-23>
 5
 v236587_ex23.htm
 EXHIBIT 23

Exhibit 23 

CONSENT OF INDEPENDENT REGISTERED PUBLIC ACCOUNTING FIRM  

The Board of Directors 

Emerson Electric Co.: 

We consent to the incorporation by reference in Registration Statement Nos. 333-173933, 333-163718, 333-154362, 333-154361, 333-152917, 333-152916, 333-118589, 333-90240 and 333-46919 on Form S-8 and Registration Statement Nos. 333-155674, 333-110546, 333-52658, 333-84673 and 333-66865 on Form S-3 of Emerson Electric Co. of our report dated November 21, 2011, with respect to the consolidated balance sheets of Emerson Electric Co. as of September 30, 2011 and 2010, and the related consolidated statements of earnings, equity, and cash flows for each of the years in the three-year period ended September 30, 2011, and the effectiveness of internal control over financial reporting as of September 30, 2011, which report is incorporated by reference in the September 30, 2011 annual report on Form 10-K of Emerson Electric Co. 

Our report refers to changes in the method of accounting for business combinations, noncontrolling interests and earnings per share in 2010.  

/s/ KPMG LLP  

St. Louis, Missouri 

November 21, 2011 

</EX-23>

<EX-24>
 6
 v236587_ex24.htm
 EXHIBIT 24

Exhibit 24 

POWER OF ATTORNEY 

The undersigned members of the Board of Directors and Executive Officers of Emerson Electric Co., a Missouri corporation with principal offices at 8000 West Florissant Avenue, St. Louis, Missouri 63136, hereby appoint F. J. Dellaquila as their Attorney-in-Fact for the purpose of signing Emerson Electric Co. s Securities and Exchange Commission Form 10-K (and any and all Amendments thereto) for the fiscal year ended September 30, 2011. 

Dated: October 4, 2011 

Signature  

Title  

/s/  

D. N. Farr  

Chairman of the Board and Chief Executive 

D. N. Farr 

Officer 

/s/  

W. J. Galvin  

Vice Chairman and Director 

W. J. Galvin 

/s/  

R. J. Schlueter  

Vice President, Controller and Chief 

R. J. Schlueter 

Accounting Officer 

/s/  

C. A. H. Boersig  

Director 

C. A. H. Boersig 

/s/  

A. A. Busch, III  

Director 

A. A. Busch, III 

/s/  

C. Fernandez G.  

Director 

C. Fernandez G. 

/s/  

A. F. Golden  

Director 

A. F. Golden 

/s/  

H. Green  

Director 

H. Green 

/s/  

W. R. Johnson  

Director 

W. R. Johnson 

/s/  

J. B. Menzer  

Director 

J. B. Menzer 

/s/  

C. A. Peters  

Director 

C. A. Peters 

/s/  

J. W. Prueher  

Director 

J. W. Prueher 

/s/  

R. L. Ridgway  

Director 

R. L. Ridgway 

/s/  

R. L. Stephenson  

Director 

R. L. Stephenson 

</EX-24>

<EX-31>
 7
 v236587_ex31.htm
 EXHIBIT 31

Exhibit 31 

Certification 

I, D. N. Farr, certify that:  

1.  I have reviewed this annual report on Form 10-K of Emerson Electric Co.; 

2.  Based on my knowledge, this report does not contain any untrue statement of a material fact or omit to state a material fact necessary to make the statements made, in light of the circumstances under which such statements were made, not misleading with respect to the period covered by this report; 

3.  Based on my knowledge, the financial statements, and other financial information included in this report, fairly present in all material respects the financial condition, results of operations and cash flows of the registrant as of, and for, the periods presented in this report; 

4.  The registrant s other certifying officer and I are responsible for establishing and maintaining disclosure controls and procedures (as defined in Exchange Act Rules 13a-15(e) and 15d-15(e)) and internal control over financial reporting (as defined in Exchange Act Rules 13a-15(f) and 15d-15(f)) for the registrant and have: 

a)  Designed such disclosure controls and procedures, or caused such disclosure controls and procedures to be designed under our supervision, to ensure that material information relating to the registrant, including its consolidated subsidiaries, is made known to us by others within those entities, particularly during the period in which this report is being prepared; 

b)  Designed such internal control over financial reporting, or caused such internal control over financial reporting to be designed under our supervision, to provide reasonable assurance regarding the reliability of financial reporting and the preparation of financial statements for external purposes in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles; 

c)  Evaluated the effectiveness of the registrant s disclosure controls and procedures and presented in this report our conclusions about the effectiveness of the disclosure controls and procedures, as of the end of the period covered by this report based on such evaluation; and 

d)  Disclosed in this report any change in the registrant s internal control over financial reporting that occurred during the registrant s most recent fiscal quarter (the registrant s fourth fiscal quarter in the case of an annual report) that has materially affected, or is reasonably likely to materially affect, the registrant s internal control over financial reporting; and 

5.  The registrant s other certifying officer and I have disclosed, based on our most recent evaluation of internal control over financial reporting, to the registrant s auditors and the audit committee of the registrant s board of directors:  

a)  All significant deficiencies and material weaknesses in the design or operation of internal control over financial reporting which are reasonably likely to adversely affect the registrant s ability to record, process, summarize and report financial information; and 

b)  Any fraud, whether or not material, that involves management or other employees who have a significant role in the registrant s internal control over financial reporting. 

Date: November 21, 2011 

/s/ D. N. Farr  

D. N. Farr 

Chairman of the Board and 

Chief Executive Officer 

Emerson Electric Co. 

Certification 

I, F. J. Dellaquila, certify that: 

1.  I have reviewed this annual report on Form 10-K of Emerson Electric Co.; 

2.  Based on my knowledge, this report does not contain any untrue statement of a material fact or omit to state a material fact necessary to make the statements made, in light of the circumstances under which such statements were made, not misleading with respect to the period covered by this report; 

3.  Based on my knowledge, the financial statements, and other financial information included in this report, fairly present in all material respects the financial condition, results of operations and cash flows of the registrant as of, and for, the periods presented in this report; 

4.  The registrant s other certifying officer and I are responsible for establishing and maintaining disclosure controls and procedures (as defined in Exchange Act Rules 13a-15(e) and 15d-15(e)) and internal control over financial reporting (as defined in Exchange Act Rules 13a-15(f) and 15d-15(f)) for the registrant and have: 

a)  Designed such disclosure controls and procedures, or caused such disclosure controls and procedures to be designed under our supervision, to ensure that material information relating to the registrant, including its consolidated subsidiaries, is made known to us by others within those entities, particularly during the period in which this report is being prepared; 

b)  Designed such internal control over financial reporting, or caused such internal control over financial reporting to be designed under our supervision, to provide reasonable assurance regarding the reliability of financial reporting and the preparation of financial statements for external purposes in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles; 

c)  Evaluated the effectiveness of the registrant s disclosure controls and procedures and presented in this report our conclusions about the effectiveness of the disclosure controls and procedures, as of the end of the period covered by this report based on such evaluation; and 

d)  Disclosed in this report any change in the registrant s internal control over financial reporting that occurred during the registrant s most recent fiscal quarter (the registrant s fourth fiscal quarter in the case of an annual report) that has materially affected, or is reasonably likely to materially affect, the registrant s internal control over financial reporting; and 

5.  The registrant s other certifying officer and I have disclosed, based on our most recent evaluation of internal control over financial reporting, to the registrant s auditors and the audit committee of the registrant s board of directors:   

a)  All significant deficiencies and material weaknesses in the design or operation of internal control over financial reporting which are reasonably likely to adversely affect the registrant s ability to record, process, summarize and report financial information; and  

b)  Any fraud, whether or not material, that involves management or other employees who have a significant role in the registrant s internal control over financial reporting. 

Date: November 21, 2011 

/s/ F. J. Dellaquila  

F. J. Dellaquila 

Senior Vice President and 

Chief Financial Officer 

Emerson Electric Co. 

</EX-31>

<EX-32>
 8
 v236587_ex32.htm
 EXHIBIT 32

Exhibit 32 

CERTIFICATION PURSUANT TO 

EXCHANGE ACT RULE 13a-14(b) AND 

18 U.S.C. SECTION 1350 

In connection with the Annual Report of Emerson Electric Co. (the  Company ) on Form 10-K for the period ended September 30, 2011, as filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission on the date hereof (the  Report ), I, D. N. Farr, certify, to the best of my knowledge, pursuant to Exchange Act Rule 13a-14(b) and 18 U.S.C. Section 1350, that: 

(1) 

The Report fully complies with the requirements of Section 13(a) or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934; and 

(2)  

The information contained in the Report fairly presents, in all material respects, the financial condition and results of operations of the Company.  

/s/ D. N. Farr  

D. N. Farr 

Chairman of the Board and 

Chief Executive Officer 

Emerson Electric Co. 

November 21, 2011 

CERTIFICATION PURSUANT TO 

EXCHANGE ACT RULE 13a-14(b) AND 

18 U.S.C. SECTION 1350 

In connection with the Annual Report of Emerson Electric Co. (the  Company ) on Form 10-K for the period ended September 30, 2011, as filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission on the date hereof (the  Report ), I, F. J. Dellaquila, certify, to the best of my knowledge, pursuant to Exchange Act Rule 13a-14(b) and 18 U.S.C. Section 1350, that: 

(1) 

The Report fully complies with the requirements of Section 13(a) or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934; and 

(2)  

The information contained in the Report fairly presents, in all material respects, the financial condition and results of operations of the Company.  

/s/ F. J. Dellaquila  

F. J. Dellaquila 

Senior Vice President and 

Chief Financial Officer 

Emerson Electric Co. 

November 21, 2011 

</EX-32>

<EX-101.INS>
 9
 emr-20110930.xml
 XBRL INSTANCE DOCUMENT

</EX-101.INS>

<EX-101.SCH>
 10
 emr-20110930.xsd
 XBRL TAXONOMY EXTENSION SCHEMA

</EX-101.SCH>

<EX-101.CAL>
 11
 emr-20110930_cal.xml
 XBRL TAXONOMY EXTENSION CALCULATION LINKBASE

</EX-101.CAL>

<EX-101.DEF>
 12
 emr-20110930_def.xml
 XBRL TAXONOMY EXTENSION DEFINITION LINKBASE

</EX-101.DEF>

<EX-101.LAB>
 13
 emr-20110930_lab.xml
 XBRL TAXONOMY EXTENSION LABEL LINKBASE

</EX-101.LAB>

<EX-101.PRE>
 14
 emr-20110930_pre.xml
 XBRL TAXONOMY EXTENSION PRESENTATION LINKBASE

</EX-101.PRE>

