<Header>
<FileStats>
    <FileName>20080228_10-K_edgar_data_5272_0000950123-08-002280_1.txt</FileName>
    <GrossFileSize>4505262</GrossFileSize>
    <NetFileSize>928436</NetFileSize>
    <NonText_DocumentType_Chars>19339</NonText_DocumentType_Chars>
    <HTML_Chars>2440110</HTML_Chars>
    <XBRL_Chars>0</XBRL_Chars>
    <XML_Chars>0</XML_Chars>
    <N_Tables>187</N_Tables>
    <N_Exhibits>5</N_Exhibits>
</FileStats>
<SEC-Header>
0000950123-08-002280.hdr.sgml : 20080228
<ACCEPTANCE-DATETIME>20080228172958
ACCESSION NUMBER:		0000950123-08-002280
CONFORMED SUBMISSION TYPE:	10-K
PUBLIC DOCUMENT COUNT:		7
CONFORMED PERIOD OF REPORT:	20071231
FILED AS OF DATE:		20080228
DATE AS OF CHANGE:		20080228

FILER:

	COMPANY DATA:	
		COMPANY CONFORMED NAME:			AMERICAN INTERNATIONAL GROUP INC
		CENTRAL INDEX KEY:			0000005272
		STANDARD INDUSTRIAL CLASSIFICATION:	FIRE, MARINE & CASUALTY INSURANCE [6331]
		IRS NUMBER:				132592361
		STATE OF INCORPORATION:			DE
		FISCAL YEAR END:			1231

	FILING VALUES:
		FORM TYPE:		10-K
		SEC ACT:		1934 Act
		SEC FILE NUMBER:	001-08787
		FILM NUMBER:		08652022

	BUSINESS ADDRESS:	
		STREET 1:		70 PINE ST
		CITY:			NEW YORK
		STATE:			NY
		ZIP:			10270
		BUSINESS PHONE:		2127707000

	MAIL ADDRESS:	
		STREET 1:		70 PINE STREET
		CITY:			NEW YORK
		STATE:			NY
		ZIP:			10270

	FORMER COMPANY:	
		FORMER CONFORMED NAME:	AMERICAN INTERNATIONAL ENTERPRISES INC
		DATE OF NAME CHANGE:	19700507

</SEC-Header>
</Header>

 
Proc-Type: 2001,MIC-CLEAR
Originator-Name: webmaster@www.sec.gov
Originator-Key-Asymmetric:
 MFgwCgYEVQgBAQICAf8DSgAwRwJAW2sNKK9AVtBzYZmr6aGjlWyK3XmZv3dTINen
 TWSM7vrzLADbmYQaionwg5sDW3P6oaM5D3tdezXMm7z1T+B+twIDAQAB
MIC-Info: RSA-MD5,RSA,
 Lo9uloZYkG1h+qBlyWVYOSQN8wr0HbATIgqIwJA3VcsBRdo/xgwmNNe0JQWinS9o
 JoxcNUzXiBeeMQpyJ7pGbw==

 0000950123-08-002280.txt : 20080228

10-K
 1
 y44393e10vk.htm
 FORM 10-K

FORM 10-K 

Table of Contents   

UNITED STATES 

SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION 

Washington, D.C. 20549 

Form  10-K  

Commission file number 1-8787 

American International Group, Inc. 

(Exact name of registrant as specified in its charter) 

Delaware 

13-2592361  

(State or other jurisdiction of 
    incorporation or organization)  

(I.R.S. Employer 
    Identification No.)  

70 Pine Street, New York, New York 
     (Address of principal executive offices)  

10270 
    (Zip Code)  

Registrant s telephone number, including area code
(212) 770-7000 

Securities registered pursuant to Section 12(b) of the
Act: 

Name of each exchange  

Title of each class  
       
      on which registered  

Common Stock,
    Par Value $2.50 Per Share 

New York Stock Exchange  

5.75% Series A-2 Junior Subordinated Debentures 

New York Stock Exchange  

4.875% Series A-3 Junior Subordinated Debentures 

New York Stock Exchange  

6.45% Series A-4 Junior Subordinated Debentures 

New York Stock Exchange  

7.70% Series A-5 Junior Subordinated Debentures 

New York Stock Exchange  

NIKKEI
    225   
    Index Market Index Target-Term
    Securities    
    due January 5, 2011  

American Stock Exchange  

Securities registered pursuant to Section 12(g) of the
Act: 

Title of each class  

None 

Indicate by check mark if the
registrant is a well-known seasoned issuer, as defined in
Rule 405 of the Securities
Act.    Yes             No     

Indicate by check mark if the
registrant is not required to file reports pursuant to
Section 13 or Section 15(d) of the
Act.    Yes             No     

Indicate by check mark whether the
registrant (1) has filed all reports required to be filed
by Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of
1934 during the preceding 12 months (or such shorter period
that the registrant was required to file such reports), and
(2) has been subject to such filing requirements for the
past
90 days.    Yes             No     

Indicate by check mark if disclosure
of delinquent filers pursuant to Item 405 of
Regulation  S-K  is
not contained herein, and will not be contained, to the best of
registrant s knowledge, in definitive proxy or information
statements incorporated by reference in Part III of this
Form  10-K  or any
amendment to this
Form  10-K.          

Indicate by check mark whether the
registrant is a large accelerated filer, an accelerated filer, a
non-accelerated filer, or a smaller reporting company. See the
definitions of  large accelerated filer, 
 accelerated filer  and  smaller reporting
company  in
Rule  12b-2  of the
Exchange Act. (Check one): 

Large Accelerated
    Filer     

Accelerated
    Filer      

Non-Accelerated
    Filer      

Smaller Reporting
    Company      

(Do not check if a smaller reporting company)  

Indicate by check mark whether the
registrant is a shell company (as defined in
Rule  12b-2  of the
Exchange Act). 

Yes                      No     

The aggregate market value of the
voting and nonvoting common equity held by nonaffiliates of the
registrant computed by reference to the price at which the
common equity was last sold as of June 29, 2007 (the last
business day of the registrant s most recently completed
second fiscal quarter), was approximately $152,287,000,000. 

As of January 31, 2008, there were
outstanding 2,522,336,771 shares of Common Stock,
$2.50 par value per share, of the registrant. 

Documents Incorporated by Reference: 

Portions of the registrant s
definitive proxy statement filed or to be filed with the
Securities and Exchange Commission pursuant to
Regulation 14A involving the election of directors at the
Annual Meeting of Shareholders of the registrant scheduled to be
held on May 14, 2008 are incorporated by reference in
Part III of this
Form  10-K.  

AIG 2007
Form  10-K          
1 

American International Group,
Inc. and Subsidiaries

Table of Contents 

Index  

Page   

Part I   

Item 1. 

Business  

3  

Item 1A. 

Risk Factors  

16  

Item 1B. 

Unresolved Staff Comments  

19  

Item 2. 

Properties  

20  

Item 3. 

Legal Proceedings  

20  

Item 4. 

Submission of Matters to a Vote of Security
    Holders  

25  

Part II   

Item 5. 

Market for the Registrant s Common
    Equity, Related Stockholder Matters and Issuer Purchases of
    Equity Securities  

26  

Item 6. 

Selected Financial Data  

28  

Item 7. 

Management s Discussion and Analysis
    of Financial Condition and Results of Operations  

29  

Item 7A. 

Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures
    About Market Risk  

128  

Item 8. 

Financial Statements and Supplementary
    Data  

128  

Item 9. 

Changes in and Disagreements With
    Accountants on Accounting and Financial Disclosure  

202  

Item 9A. 

Controls and Procedures  

202  

Item 9B. 

Other Information  

204  

Part III*   

Item 10. 

Directors, Executive Officers and Corporate
    Governance  

205  

Item 11. 

Executive Compensation  

205  

Item 12. 

Security Ownership of Certain Beneficial
    Owners and Management and Related Stockholder Matters  

205  

Item 13. 

Certain Relationships and Related
    Transactions, and Director Independence  

205  

Item 14. 

Principal Accountant Fees and Services  

205  

Part IV   

Item 15. 

Exhibits and Financial Statement
    Schedules  

205  

Signatures  

206  

EX-12: STATEMENT RE COMPUTATION OF RATIOS    
     EX-21: SUBSIDIARIES    
     EX-23: CONSENT OF PRICEWATERHOUSECOOPERS LLP    
     EX-31: CERTIFICATIONS    
     EX-32: CERTIFICATIONS    

*   
     
     Except for the information provided in Part I under the
    heading  Directors and Executive Officers of AIG, 
    Part III Items 10, 11, 12, 13 and 14 are included
    in AIG s Definitive Proxy Statement to be used in
    connection with AIG s Annual Meeting of Shareholders
    scheduled to be held on May 14, 2008.  

2         AIG
2007 Form  10-K 

Table of Contents   

American International Group, Inc. and Subsidiaries

Part I 

Item 1.   
 Business 

American International Group, Inc. (AIG), a Delaware
corporation, is a holding company which, through its
subsidiaries, is engaged in a broad range of insurance and
insurance-related activities in the United States and abroad.
AIG s primary activities include both General Insurance and
Life Insurance & Retirement Services operations. Other
significant activities include Financial Services and Asset
Management. The principal business units in each of AIG s
operating segments are as follows*:

General Insurance  

American Home Assurance Company (American Home) 

National Union Fire Insurance Company of Pittsburgh, Pa.
    (National Union) 

New Hampshire Insurance Company (New Hampshire) 

Lexington Insurance Company (Lexington) 

The Hartford Steam Boiler Inspection and Insurance Company (HSB) 

Transatlantic Reinsurance Company 

United Guaranty Residential Insurance Company 

American International Underwriters Overseas, Ltd. (AIUO) 

AIU Insurance Company (AIUI) 

Life Insurance & Retirement Services  

Domestic:  

American General Life Insurance Company (AIG American General) 

American General Life and Accident Insurance Company (AGLA) 

The United States Life Insurance Company in the City of New York
    (USLIFE) 

The Variable Annuity Life Insurance Company (VALIC) 

AIG Annuity Insurance Company (AIG Annuity) 

AIG SunAmerica Life Assurance Company (AIG SunAmerica) 

Foreign:  

American Life Insurance Company (ALICO) 

AIG Star Life Insurance Co., Ltd. (AIG Star Life) 

AIG Edison Life Insurance Company (AIG Edison Life) 

American International Assurance Company, Limited, together with
    American International Assurance Company (Bermuda) Limited (AIA) 

American International Reinsurance Company Limited (AIRCO) 

Nan Shan Life Insurance Company, Ltd. (Nan Shan) 

The Philippine American Life and General Insurance Company
    (Philamlife) 

Financial Services  

International Lease Finance Corporation (ILFC) 

AIG Financial Products Corp. and AIG Trading Group Inc. and
    their respective subsidiaries (collectively, AIGFP) 

American General Finance, Inc. (AGF) 

AIG Consumer Finance Group, Inc. (AIGCFG) 

Imperial A.I. Credit Companies (A.I. Credit) 

Asset Management  

AIG SunAmerica Asset Management Corp. (SAAMCo) 

AIG Global Asset Management Holdings Corp. and its subsidiaries
    and affiliated companies (collectively, AIG Investments) 

AIG Private Bank Ltd. (AIG Private Bank) 

AIG Global Real Estate Investment Corp. (AIG Global Real Estate) 

At December 31, 2007, AIG and its
subsidiaries had approximately 116,000 employees.

AIG s Internet address for its
corporate website is  www.aigcorporate.com . AIG makes
available free of charge, through the Investor Information
section of AIG s corporate website, Annual Reports on
Form  10-K, 
Quarterly Reports on
Form  10-Q,  Current
Reports on
Form  8-K  and Proxy
Statements on Schedule 14A and amendments to those reports
or statements filed or furnished pursuant to Section 13(a),
14(a) or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 (the
Exchange Act) as soon as reasonably practicable after such
materials are electronically filed with, or furnished to, the
Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC). AIG also makes
available on its corporate website copies of the charters for
its Audit, Nominating and Corporate Governance and Compensation
and Management Resources Committees, as well as its Corporate
Governance Guidelines (which include Director Independence
Standards), Director, Executive Officer and Senior Financial
Officer Code of Business Conduct and Ethics, Employee Code of
Conduct and Related-Party Transactions Approval Policy. Except
for the documents specifically incorporated by reference into
this Annual Report on
Form  10-K, 
information contained on AIG s website or that can be
accessed through its website is not incorporated by reference
into this Annual Report on
Form  10-K. 

Throughout this Annual Report on
Form  10-K,  AIG
presents its operations in the way it believes will be most
meaningful, as well as most transparent. Certain of the
measurements used by AIG management are  non-GAAP financial
measures  under SEC rules and regulations. Statutory
underwriting profit (loss) and combined ratios are determined in
accordance with accounting principles prescribed by insurance
regulatory authorities. For an explanation of why AIG management
considers these  non-GAAP measures  useful to
investors, see Management s Discussion and Analysis of
Financial Condition and Results of Operations. 

*For information on AIG s business segments, see
Note 2 to Consolidated Financial Statements. 

AIG 2007
Form  10-K          
3 

Table of Contents   

American International Group, Inc. and Subsidiaries

The following table presents the
general development of the business of AIG on a consolidated
basis, the contributions made to AIG s consolidated
revenues and operating income and the assets held, in the
periods indicated, by its General Insurance, Life
Insurance & Retirement Services, Financial Services and
Asset Management operations and Other operations. For additional
information, see Item 6. Selected Financial Data,
Management s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition
and Results of Operations and Notes 1 and 2 to Consolidated
Financial Statements.  

(a)  
     
     Certain reclassifications have been made to prior period
    amounts to conform to the current period presentation.  

(b)  
     
     In 2006, includes the effect of out of period adjustments
    related to the accounting for certain interests in unit
    investment trusts (UCITS). The effect was an increase of
    $490 million in both revenues and operating income for
    General Insurance and an increase of $240 million and
    $169 million in revenues and operating income,
    respectively, for Life Insurance & Retirement
    Services.  

(c)  
     
     Includes current year catastrophe-related losses of
    $276 million, $2.89 billion and $1.05 billion in
    2007, 2005 and 2004, respectively. There were no significant
    catastrophe-related losses in 2006 or 2003.  

(d)  
     
     Operating income was reduced by fourth quarter charges of
    $1.8 billion and $850 million in 2005 and 2004,
    respectively, resulting from the annual review of General
    Insurance loss and loss adjustment reserves. In 2006, 2005 and
    2004, changes in estimates for asbestos and environmental
    reserves were $198 million, $873 million and
    $850 million, respectively.  

(e)  
     
     Calculated on the basis under which the
     U.S.-domiciled  general
    insurance companies are required to report such measurements to
    regulatory authorities.  

4         AIG
2007 Form  10-K 

Table of Contents   

American International Group, Inc. and Subsidiaries

(f)  
     
     In 2007, 2006, 2005, 2004 and 2003, includes
    other-than-temporary impairment charges of $2.8 billion,
    $641 million, $425 million, $441 million and
    $1.2 billion. See Management s Discussion and Analysis
    of Financial Condition and Results of Operations  
    Invested Assets   Other-than-temporary impairments.  

(g)  
     
     Includes gains (losses) from hedging activities that did not
    qualify for hedge accounting treatment under Statement of
    Financial Accounting Standards (FAS) No. 133,
     Accounting for Derivative Instruments and Hedging
    Activities  (FAS 133), including the related foreign
    exchange gains and losses. In 2007, 2006, 2005, 2004 and 2003,
    respectively, the effect was $211 million,
    $(1.82) billion, $2.01 billion, $(122) million
    and $(1.01) billion in both revenues and operating income
    for Capital Markets. These amounts result primarily from
    interest rate and foreign currency derivatives that are
    effective economic hedges of investments and borrowings. These
    gains (losses) in 2007 include a $380 million out of period
    charge to reverse net gains recognized on transfers of available
    for sale securities among legal entities consolidated within
    AIGFP. In 2006, includes an out of period charge of $223 million
    related to the remediation of the material weakness in internal
    control over the accounting for certain derivative transactions
    under FAS 133. In the first quarter of 2007, AIGFP began
    applying hedge accounting for certain of its interest rate swaps
    and foreign currency forward contracts hedging its investments
    and borrowings.  

(h)  
     
     In 2007, both revenues and operating income (loss) include an
    unrealized market valuation loss of $11.5 billion on AIGFP
    super senior credit default swap portfolio and an
    other-than-temporary impairment charge of $643 million on
    AIGFP s available for sale investment securities. See
    Management s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition
    and Results of Operations   Invested
    Assets   Other-than- temporary impairments.  

AIG 2007
Form  10-K          
5 

Table of Contents   

American International Group, Inc. and Subsidiaries

General Insurance Operations  

AIG s General Insurance subsidiaries write substantially
all lines of commercial property and casualty insurance and
various personal lines both domestically and abroad. Domestic
General Insurance operations are comprised of the Domestic
Brokerage Group (DBG), Reinsurance, Personal Lines and Mortgage
Guaranty.

AIG is diversified both in terms of classes of business and
geographic locations. In General Insurance, workers compensation
business is the largest class of business written and
represented approximately 15 percent of net premiums
written for the year ended December 31, 2007. During 2007,
10 percent and 7 percent of the direct General
Insurance premiums written (gross premiums less return premiums
and cancellations, excluding reinsurance assumed and before
deducting reinsurance ceded) were written in California and New
York, respectively. No other state or foreign country accounted
for more than five percent of such premiums.

The majority of AIG s General Insurance business is in the
casualty classes, which tend to involve longer periods of time
for the reporting and settling of claims. This may increase the
risk and uncertainty with respect to AIG s loss reserve
development.

DBG

AIG s primary Domestic General Insurance division is DBG.
DBG s business in the United States and Canada is conducted
through American Home, National Union, Lexington, HSB and
certain other General Insurance company subsidiaries of AIG.
During 2007, DBG accounted for 51 percent of AIG s
General Insurance net premiums written.

DBG writes substantially all classes of business insurance,
accepting such business mainly from insurance brokers. This
provides DBG the opportunity to select specialized markets and
retain underwriting control. Any licensed broker is able to
submit business to DBG without the traditional agent-company
contractual relationship, but such broker usually has no
authority to commit DBG to accept a risk.

In addition to writing substantially all classes of business
insurance, including large commercial or industrial property
insurance, excess liability, inland marine, environmental,
workers compensation and excess and umbrella coverages, DBG
offers many specialized forms of insurance such as aviation,
accident and health, equipment breakdown, directors and officers
liability (D&O),
 difference-in -conditions,
kidnap-ransom, export credit and political risk, and various
types of professional errors and omissions coverages. Also
included in DBG are the operations of AIG Risk Management, which
provides insurance and risk management programs for large
corporate customers and is a leading provider of customized
structured insurance products, and AIG Environmental, which
focuses specifically on providing specialty products to clients
with environmental exposures. Lexington writes surplus lines for
risks on which conventional insurance companies do not readily
provide insurance coverage, either because of complexity or
because the coverage does not lend itself to conventional
contracts. The AIG Worldsource Division introduces and
coordinates AIG s products and services to
 U.S.-based 
multinational clients and foreign corporations doing business in
the U.S.

Reinsurance

The subsidiaries of Transatlantic Holdings, Inc. (Transatlantic)
offer reinsurance on both a treaty and facultative basis to
insurers in the United States and abroad. Transatlantic
structures programs for a full range of property and casualty
products with an emphasis on specialty risk. Transatlantic is a
public company owned 59.0 percent by AIG and therefore is
included in AIG s consolidated financial statements.

Personal Lines

AIG s Personal Lines operations provide automobile
insurance through aigdirect.com, the newly formed operation
resulting from the 2007 combination of AIG Direct and
21st Century Insurance Group (21st Century) operations, and
the Agency Auto Division, as well as a broad range of coverages
for high net worth individuals through the AIG Private Client
Group.

Mortgage Guaranty

The main business of the subsidiaries of United Guaranty
Corporation (UGC) is the issuance of residential mortgage
guaranty insurance, both domestically and internationally, that
covers the first loss for credit defaults on high loan-to-value
conventional first-lien mortgages for the purchase or refinance
of one to four family residences. UGC subsidiaries also write
second-lien and private student loan guaranty insurance.

Foreign General Insurance

AIG s Foreign General Insurance group accepts risks
primarily underwritten through American International
Underwriters (AIU), a marketing unit consisting of wholly owned
agencies and insurance companies. The Foreign General Insurance
group also includes business written by AIG s foreign-based
insurance subsidiaries. The Foreign General Insurance group uses
various marketing methods and multiple distribution channels to
write both commercial and consumer lines insurance with certain
refinements for local laws, customs and needs. AIU operates in
Asia, the Pacific Rim, Europe, the U.K., Africa, the Middle East
and Latin America. During 2007, the Foreign General Insurance
group accounted for 28 percent of AIG s General
Insurance net premiums written.

Discussion and Analysis of Consolidated
Net Losses and Loss Expense Reserve Development  

The reserve for net losses and loss expenses represents the
accumulation of estimates for reported losses (case basis
reserves) and provisions for losses incurred but not reported
(IBNR), both reduced by applicable reinsurance recoverable and
the discount for future investment income, where permitted. Net
losses and loss expenses are charged to income as incurred.

Loss reserves established with respect to foreign business are
set and monitored in terms of the currency in which payment is
expected to be made. Therefore, no assumption is included for

6         AIG
2007 Form  10-K 

Table of Contents   

American International Group, Inc. and Subsidiaries

changes in currency rates. See also Note 1(ff) to
Consolidated Financial Statements.

Management reviews the adequacy of established loss reserves
utilizing a number of analytical reserve development techniques.
Through the use of these techniques, management is able to
monitor the adequacy of AIG s established reserves and
determine appropriate assumptions for inflation. Also, analysis
of emerging specific development patterns, such as case reserve
redundancies or deficiencies and IBNR emergence, allows
management to determine any required adjustments.

The  Analysis of Consolidated Losses and Loss Expense
Reserve Development  table presents the development of net
losses and loss expense reserves for calendar years 1997 through
2007. Immediately following this table is a second table that
presents all data on a basis that excludes asbestos and
environmental net losses and loss expense reserve development.
The opening reserves held are shown at the top of the table for
each year end date. The amount of loss reserve discount included
in the opening reserve at each date is shown immediately below
the reserves held for each year. The undiscounted reserve at
each date is thus the sum of the discount and the reserve held.

The upper half of the table presents the cumulative amounts paid
during successive years related to the undiscounted opening loss
reserves. For example, in the table that excludes asbestos and
environmental losses, with respect to the net losses and loss
expense reserve of $24.83 billion as of December 31,
2000, by the end of 2007 (seven years later) $33.05 billion
had actually been paid in settlement of these net loss reserves.
In addition, as reflected in the lower section of the table, the
original undiscounted reserve of $26.12 billion was
reestimated to be $41.21 billion at December 31, 2007.
This increase from the original estimate would generally result
from a combination of a number of factors, including reserves
being settled for larger amounts than originally estimated. The
original estimates will also be increased or decreased as more
information becomes known about the individual claims and
overall claim frequency and severity patterns. The redundancy
(deficiency) depicted in the table, for any particular
calendar year, presents the aggregate change in estimates over
the period of years subsequent to the calendar year reflected at
the top of the respective column heading. For example, the
redundancy of $672 million at December 31, 2007
related to December 31, 2006 net losses and loss
expense reserves of $62.72 billion represents the
cumulative amount by which reserves in 2006 and prior years have
developed favorably during 2007.

The bottom of each table below presents the remaining
undiscounted and discounted net loss reserve for each year. For
example, in the table that excludes asbestos and environmental
losses, for the 2002 year end, the remaining undiscounted
reserves held as of December 31, 2007 are
$13.57 billion, with a corresponding discounted net reserve
of $12.57 billion.

The reserves for net losses and loss expenses with respect to
Transatlantic and 21st Century are included only in
consolidated net losses and loss expenses commencing with the
year ended December 31, 1998, the year they were first
consolidated in AIG s financial statements. Reserve
development for these operations is included only for 1998 and
subsequent periods. Thus, the presentation for 1997 and prior
year ends is not fully comparable to that for 1998 and
subsequent years in the tables below.

AIG 2007
Form  10-K          
7 

Table of Contents   

American International Group, Inc. and Subsidiaries

Analysis of Consolidated Losses and
Loss Expense Reserve Development  

The following table presents for each
calendar year the losses and loss expense reserves and the
development thereof including those with respect to asbestos and
environmental claims. See also Management s Discussion and
Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of
Operations   Operating Review   General
Insurance Operations   Reserve for Losses and Loss
Expenses.  

The following table presents the gross
liability (before discount), reinsurance recoverable and net
liability recorded at each year end and the reestimation of
these amounts as of December 31, 2007:  

8         AIG
2007 Form  10-K 

Table of Contents   

American International Group, Inc. and Subsidiaries

Analysis of Consolidated Losses and
Loss Expense Reserve Development Excluding Asbestos and
Environmental Losses and Loss Expense Reserve
Development  

The following table presents for each
calendar year the losses and loss expense reserves and the
development thereof excluding those with respect to asbestos and
environmental claims. See also Management s Discussion and
Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of
Operations   Operating Review   General
Insurance Operations   Reserve for Losses and Loss
Expenses.  

The following table presents the gross
liability (before discount), reinsurance recoverable and net
liability recorded at each year end and the reestimation of
these amounts as of December 31, 2007:  

AIG 2007
Form  10-K          
9 

Table of Contents   

American International Group, Inc. and Subsidiaries

The reserve for losses and loss expenses as reported in
AIG s consolidated balance sheet at December 31, 2007
differs from the total reserve reported in the Annual Statements
filed with state insurance departments and, where appropriate,
with foreign regulatory authorities. The differences at
December 31, 2007 relate primarily to reserves for certain
foreign operations not required to be reported in the United
States for statutory reporting purposes. Further, statutory
practices in the United States require reserves to be shown net
of applicable reinsurance recoverable.

The reserve for gross losses and loss expenses is prior to
reinsurance and represents the accumulation for reported losses
and IBNR. Management reviews the adequacy of established gross
loss reserves in the manner previously described for net loss
reserves.

For further discussion regarding net reserves for losses and
loss expenses, see Management s Discussion and Analysis of
Financial Condition and Results of Operations  
Operating Review   General Insurance
Operations   Reserve for Losses and Loss Expenses.

Life Insurance & Retirement
Services Operations  

AIG s Life Insurance & Retirement Services
operations provide insurance, financial and investment-oriented
products throughout the world. Insurance-oriented products
consist of individual and group life, payout annuities
(including structured settlements), endowment and accident and
health policies. Retirement savings products consist generally
of fixed and variable annuities.

Foreign Life Insurance &
Retirement Services

In its Foreign Life Insurance & Retirement Services
businesses, AIG operates principally through ALICO, AIG Star
Life, AIG Edison Life, AIA, Nan Shan and Philamlife. ALICO is
incorporated in Delaware and all of its business is written
outside of the United States. ALICO has operations either
directly or through subsidiaries in Europe, including the U.K.,
Latin America, the Caribbean, the Middle East, South Asia and
the Far East, with Japan being the largest territory. ALICO also
conducts life insurance business through a joint venture in
Brazil. AIA operates primarily in China (including Hong Kong),
Singapore, Malaysia, Thailand, Korea, Australia, New Zealand,
Vietnam, Indonesia and India. The operations in India are
conducted through a joint venture, Tata AIG Life Insurance
Company Limited. Nan Shan operates in Taiwan. Philamlife is the
largest life insurer in the Philippines. AIG Star Life and AIG
Edison Life operate in Japan. Operations in foreign countries
comprised 79 percent of Life Insurance &
Retirement Services Premiums and other considerations and
76 percent of Life Insurance & Retirement Services
operating income in 2007.

The Foreign Life Insurance & Retirement Services
companies have over 285,000 full and part-time agents, as well
as independent producers, and sell their products largely to
indigenous persons in local and foreign currencies. In addition
to the agency outlets, these companies also distribute their
products through direct marketing channels, such as mass
marketing, and through brokers and other distribution outlets,
such as financial institutions.

Domestic Life Insurance &
Retirement Services

AIG s principal Domestic Life Insurance &
Retirement Services operations include AGLA, AIG American
General, AIG Annuity, USLIFE, VALIC and AIG SunAmerica. These
companies utilize multiple distribution channels including
independent producers, brokerage, career agents and financial
institutions to offer life insurance, annuity and accident and
health products and services, as well as financial and other
investment products. The Domestic Life Insurance &
Retirement Services operations comprised 21 percent of
total Life Insurance & Retirement Services Premiums and
other considerations and 24 percent of Life
Insurance & Retirement Services operating income in
2007.

Reinsurance  

AIG s General Insurance subsidiaries worldwide operate
primarily by underwriting and accepting risks for their direct
account and securing reinsurance on that portion of the risk in
excess of the limit which they wish to retain. This operating
policy differs from that of many insurance companies that will
underwrite only up to their net retention limit, thereby
requiring the broker or agent to secure commitments from other
underwriters for the remainder of the gross risk amount.

Various AIG profit centers, including DBG, AIU and AIG Risk
Finance, as well as certain Life Insurance subsidiaries, use
AIRCO as a reinsurer for certain of their businesses. In
Bermuda, AIRCO discounts reserves attributable to certain
classes of business assumed from other AIG subsidiaries.

For a further discussion of reinsurance, see
Item 1A. Risk Factors   Reinsurance;
Management s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition
and Results of Operations   Risk
Management   Reinsurance; and Note 5 to
Consolidated Financial Statements.

10         AIG
2007 Form  10-K 

Table of Contents   

American International Group, Inc. and Subsidiaries

Insurance Investment
Operations  

A significant portion of AIG s General Insurance and Life
Insurance & Retirement Services revenues are derived
from AIG s insurance investment operations.

The following table summarizes the
investment results of the insurance operations:  

(a)   
     
     Including investment income due and accrued and real estate.
    Also, includes collateral assets invested under the global
    securities lending program.  

(b)   
     
     Net investment income divided by the annual average sum of
    cash and invested assets.  

(c)   
     
     Net investment income divided by the annual average invested
    assets.  

AIG s worldwide insurance investment policy places primary
emphasis on investments in government and other high quality,
fixed income securities in all of its portfolios and, to a
lesser extent, investments in high yield bonds, common stocks,
real estate, hedge funds and partnerships, in order to enhance
returns on policyholders  funds and generate net investment
income. The ability to implement this policy is somewhat limited
in certain territories as there may be a lack of adequate
long-term investments or investment restrictions may be imposed
by the local regulatory authorities.

Financial Services Operations  

AIG s Financial Services subsidiaries engage in diversified
activities including aircraft and equipment leasing, capital
markets, consumer finance and insurance premium finance.
Together, the Aircraft Leasing, Capital Markets and Consumer
Finance operations generate the majority of the revenues
produced by the Financial Services operations. A.I. Credit also
contributes to Financial Services income principally by
providing insurance premium financing for both AIG s
policyholders and those of other insurers.

Aircraft Leasing

Aircraft Leasing operations represent the operations of ILFC,
which generates its revenues primarily from leasing new and used
commercial jet aircraft to foreign and domestic airlines.
Revenues also result from the remarketing of commercial jets for
ILFC s own account, and remarketing and fleet management
services for airlines and financial institutions. See also
Note 2 to Consolidated Financial Statements.

Capital Markets

Capital Markets represents the operations of AIGFP, which
engages as principal in a wide variety of financial
transactions, including standard and customized financial
products involving commodities, credit, currencies, energy,
equities and rates. The credit products include credit
protection written through credit default swaps on super senior
risk tranches of diversified pools of loans and debt securities.
AIGFP also invests in a diversified portfolio of securities and
principal investments and engages in borrowing activities that
include issuing standard and structured notes and other
securities and entering into guaranteed investment agreements
(GIAs).

Consumer Finance

Consumer Finance operations include AGF as well as AIGCFG. AGF
provides a wide variety of consumer finance products, including
real estate and non-real estate loans, retail sales finance and
credit-related insurance to customers in the United States, the
U.K., Puerto Rico and the U.S. Virgin Islands. AGF s
finance receivables are primarily sourced through its branches,
although many of AGF s real estate loans are sourced
through its centralized real estate operations, which include
AGF s mortgage banking activities. AIGCFG, through its
subsidiaries, is engaged in developing a multi-product consumer
finance business with an emphasis on emerging and developing
markets.

Asset Management Operations  

AIG s Asset Management operations comprise a wide variety
of investment-related services and investment products. These
ser-

AIG 2007
Form  10-K          
11 

Table of Contents   

American International Group, Inc. and Subsidiaries

vices and products are offered to individuals, pension funds and
institutions globally through AIG s Spread-Based Investment
business, Institutional Asset Management, and Brokerage Services
and Mutual Funds business. Also included in Asset Management
operations are the results of certain SunAmerica sponsored
partnership investments.

Spread-Based Investment Business

AIG s Spread-Based Investment business includes the results
of AIG s proprietary spread-based investment operations,
the Matched Investment Program (MIP), which was launched in
September of 2005 to replace the Guaranteed Investment Contract
(GIC) program, which is in runoff. The MIP is an investment
strategy that involves investing in various asset classes with
financing provided through third parties. This business uses
various risk mitigating strategies designed to hedge interest
rate and currency risk associated with underlying investments
and related liabilities.

Institutional Asset Management

AIG s Institutional Asset Management business, conducted
through AIG Investments, provides an array of investment
products and services globally to institutional investors,
pension funds, AIG subsidiaries and high net worth investors.
These products include traditional equity and fixed income
investments, and a wide range of alternative asset classes.
These services include investment advisory and subadvisory
services, investment monitoring and investment transaction
structuring. Within the fixed income and equity asset classes,
AIG Investments offers various forms of structured investments
aimed at achieving superior returns or capital preservation.
Within the alternative asset class, AIG Investments offers hedge
and private equity fund-of-funds, direct investments and
distressed debt investments.

AIG Global Real Estate provides a wide range of real estate
investment and management services for AIG subsidiaries, as well
as for third-party institutional investors, high net worth
investors and pension funds. Through a strategic network of
local real estate ventures, AIG Global Real Estate actively
invests in and develops office, industrial, multi-family
residential, retail, hotel and resort properties globally.

AIG Private Bank offers banking, trading and investment
management services to private clients and institutions globally.

From time to time, AIG Investments acquires alternative
investments, primarily consisting of direct controlling equity
interests in private enterprises, with the intention of
 warehousing  such investments until the investment or
economic benefit thereof is transferred to a fund or other
AIG-managed investment product. During the warehousing period,
AIG bears the cost and risks associated with carrying these
investments and consolidates them on its balance sheet and
records the operating results until the investments are
transferred, sold or otherwise divested. Changes in market
conditions may negatively affect the fair value of these
warehoused investments. Market conditions may impede AIG from
launching new investment products for which these warehoused
assets are being held, which could result in AIG not recovering
its investment upon transfer or divestment. In the event that
AIG is unable to transfer or otherwise divest its interest in
the warehoused investment to third parties, AIG could be
required to hold these investments indefinitely. In certain
instances, the consolidated warehoused investments are not
wholly owned by AIG. In such cases, AIG shares the risk
associated with warehousing the asset with the minority interest
investors.

Brokerage Services and Mutual Funds

AIG s Brokerage Services and Mutual Funds business,
conducted through AIG Advisor Group, Inc. and AIG SunAmerica
Asset Management Corp., provides broker-dealer related services
and mutual funds to retail investors, group trusts and corporate
accounts through an independent network of financial advisors.
AIG Advisor Group, Inc., a subsidiary of AIG Retirement
Services, Inc., is comprised of several broker-dealer entities
that provide these services to clients primarily in the U.S.
marketplace. AIG SunAmerica Asset Management Corp. manages,
advises and/or administers retail mutual funds, as well as the
underlying assets of variable annuities sold by AIG SunAmerica
and VALIC to individuals and groups throughout the United States.

Other Asset Management

Included in Other Asset Management is income or loss from
certain AIG SunAmerica sponsored partnerships and partnership
investments. Partnership assets consist of investments in a
diversified portfolio of private equity funds, affordable
housing partnerships and hedge fund investments.

Other Operations  

Certain AIG subsidiaries provide insurance-related services such
as adjusting claims and marketing specialized products. Several
wholly owned foreign subsidiaries of AIG operating in countries
or jurisdictions such as Ireland, Bermuda, Barbados and
Gibraltar provide insurance and related administrative and back
office services to affiliated and unaffiliated insurance and
reinsurance companies, including captive insurance companies
unaffiliated with AIG.

AIG has several other subsidiaries that engage in various
businesses. Mt. Mansfield Company, Inc. owns and operates the
ski slopes, lifts, a school and an inn located in Stowe,
Vermont. Also reported in AIG s Other operations are
interest expense, expenses of corporate staff not attributable
to specific business segments, expenses related to efforts to
improve internal controls, corporate initiatives, certain
compensation plan expenses and the settlement costs more fully
described in Item 3. Legal Proceedings and Note 12(a)
to Consolidated Financial Statements.

Additional Investments  

AIG s significant investments in partially owned companies
(which are accounted for under the equity method) include a
25.4 percent interest in The Fuji Fire and Marine Insurance
Co., Ltd., a general insurance company in Japan, a
26.0 percent interest in Tata AIG Life Insurance Company,
Ltd. and a 26.0 percent interest

12         AIG
2007 Form  10-K 

Table of Contents   

American International Group, Inc. and Subsidiaries

in Tata AIG General Insurance Company, Ltd. in India.
Substantially all of AIG s equity interest in Allied World
Assurance Holdings, Ltd. was sold by AIG in December 2007. For a
discussion of AIG s investments in partially owned
companies, see Note 1(s) to Consolidated Financial
Statements.

Locations of Certain Assets  

As of December 31, 2007, approximately 37 percent of
the consolidated assets of AIG were located in foreign countries
(other than Canada), including $4.4 billion of cash and
securities on deposit with foreign regulatory authorities.
Foreign operations and assets held abroad may be adversely
affected by political developments in foreign countries,
including tax changes, nationalization and changes in regulatory
policy, as well as by consequence of hostilities and unrest. The
risks of such occurrences and their overall effect upon AIG vary
from country to country and cannot easily be predicted. If
expropriation or nationalization does occur, AIG s policy
is to take all appropriate measures to seek recovery of such
assets. Certain of the countries in which AIG s business is
conducted have currency restrictions which generally cause a
delay in a company s ability to repatriate assets and
profits. See also Notes 1 and 2 to Consolidated Financial
Statements and Item 1A. Risk Factors   Foreign
Operations.

Regulation  

AIG s operations around the world are subject to regulation
by many different types of regulatory authorities, including
insurance, securities, investment advisory, banking and thrift
regulators in the United States and abroad. The regulatory
environment can have a significant effect on AIG and its
business. AIG s operations have become more diverse and
consumer-oriented, increasing the scope of regulatory
supervision and the possibility of intervention. Although AIG
cannot predict the scope or effect of such regulation on its
business, AIG expects further regulation of its domestic
consumer finance operations as a result of the current
disruption of the U.S. residential mortgage market. In addition,
the investigations into financial accounting practices that led
to two restatements of AIG s consolidated financial
statements have heightened regulatory scrutiny of AIG worldwide.

In 1999, AIG became a unitary thrift holding company within the
meaning of the Home Owners  Loan Act (HOLA) when the Office
of Thrift Supervision (OTS) granted AIG approval to organize AIG
Federal Savings Bank. AIG is subject to OTS regulation,
examination, supervision and reporting requirements. In
addition, the OTS has enforcement authority over AIG and its
subsidiaries. Among other things, this permits the OTS to
restrict or prohibit activities that are determined to be a
serious risk to the financial safety, soundness or stability of
AIG s subsidiary savings association, AIG Federal Savings
Bank.

Under prior law, a unitary savings and loan holding company,
such as AIG, was not restricted as to the types of business in
which it could engage, provided that its savings association
subsidiary continued to be a qualified thrift lender. The
Gramm-Leach-Bliley Act of 1999 (GLBA) provides that no company
may acquire control of an OTS regulated institution after
May 4, 1999 unless it engages only in the financial
activities permitted for financial holding companies under the
law or for multiple savings and loan holding companies. The
GLBA, however, grandfathered the unrestricted authority for
activities with respect to a unitary savings and loan holding
company existing prior to May 4, 1999, so long as its
savings association subsidiary continues to be a qualified
thrift lender under the HOLA. As a unitary savings and loan
holding company whose application was pending as of May 4,
1999, AIG is grandfathered under the GLBA and generally is not
restricted under existing laws as to the types of business
activities in which it may engage, provided that AIG Federal
Savings Bank continues to be a qualified thrift lender under the
HOLA.

Certain states require registration and periodic reporting by
insurance companies that are licensed in such states and are
controlled by other corporations. Applicable legislation
typically requires periodic disclosure concerning the
corporation that controls the registered insurer and the other
companies in the holding company system and prior approval of
intercorporate services and transfers of assets (including in
some instances payment of dividends by the insurance subsidiary)
within the holding company system. AIG s subsidiaries are
registered under such legislation in those states that have such
requirements.

AIG s insurance subsidiaries, in common with other
insurers, are subject to regulation and supervision by the
states and by other jurisdictions in which they do business.
Within the United States, the method of such regulation varies
but generally has its source in statutes that delegate
regulatory and supervisory powers to an insurance official. The
regulation and supervision relate primarily to approval of
policy forms and rates, the standards of solvency that must be
met and maintained, including risk-based capital, the licensing
of insurers and their agents, the nature of and limitations on
investments, restrictions on the size of risks that may be
insured under a single policy, deposits of securities for the
benefit of policyholders, requirements for acceptability of
reinsurers, periodic examinations of the affairs of insurance
companies, the form and content of reports of financial
condition required to be filed, and reserves for unearned
premiums, losses and other purposes. In general, such regulation
is for the protection of policyholders rather than the equity
owners of these companies.

AIG has taken various steps to enhance the capital positions of
the Domestic General Insurance companies. AIG entered into
capital maintenance agreements with the Domestic General
Insurance companies that set forth procedures through which AIG
will provide ongoing capital support. Also, in order to allow
the Domestic General Insurance companies to record as an
admitted asset at December 31, 2007 certain reinsurance
ceded to
 non-U.S.  reinsurers
(which has the effect of increasing the statutory surplus of
such Domestic General Insurance companies), AIG obtained and
entered into reimbursement agreements for approximately
$1.8 billion of letters of credit issued by several
commercial banks in favor of certain Domestic General Insurance
companies.

In the U.S., Risk-Based Capital (RBC) is designed to
measure the adequacy of an insurer s statutory surplus in
relation to the risks inherent in its business. Thus,
inadequately capitalized general and life insurance companies
may be identified. The U.S. RBC formula develops a
risk-adjusted target level of statutory

AIG 2007
Form  10-K          
13 

Table of Contents   

American International Group, Inc. and Subsidiaries

surplus by applying certain factors to various asset, premium
and reserve items. Higher factors are applied to more risky
items and lower factors are applied to less risky items. Thus,
the target level of statutory surplus varies not only as a
result of the insurer s size, but also based on the risk
profile of the insurer s operations.

The RBC Model Law provides for four incremental levels of
regulatory attention for insurers whose surplus is below the
calculated RBC target. These levels of attention range in
severity from requiring the insurer to submit a plan for
corrective action to placing the insurer under regulatory
control.

The statutory surplus of each of AIG s Domestic General
Insurance and Life Insurance subsidiaries exceeded their RBC
target levels as of December 31, 2007.

To the extent that any of AIG s insurance entities would
fall below prescribed levels of statutory surplus, it would be
AIG s intention to provide appropriate capital or other
types of support to that entity.

A substantial portion of AIG s General Insurance business
and a majority of its Life Insurance business is carried on in
foreign countries. The degree of regulation and supervision in
foreign jurisdictions varies. Generally, AIG, as well as the
underwriting companies operating in such jurisdictions, must
satisfy local regulatory requirements. Licenses issued by
foreign authorities to AIG subsidiaries are subject to
modification or revocation by such authorities, and these
subsidiaries could be prevented from conducting business in
certain of the jurisdictions where they currently operate. In
the past, AIG has been allowed to modify its operations to
conform with new licensing requirements in most jurisdictions.

In addition to licensing requirements, AIG s foreign
operations are also regulated in various jurisdictions with
respect to currency, policy language and terms, advertising,
amount and type of security deposits, amount and type of
reserves, amount and type of capital to be held, amount and type
of local investment and the share of profits to be returned to
policyholders on participating policies. Some foreign countries
regulate rates on various types of policies. Certain countries
have established reinsurance institutions, wholly or partially
owned by the local government, to which admitted insurers are
obligated to cede a portion of their business on terms that may
not always allow foreign insurers, including AIG subsidiaries,
full compensation. In some countries, regulations governing
constitution of technical reserves and remittance balances may
hinder remittance of profits and repatriation of assets.

See Management s Discussion and Analysis of Financial
Condition and Results of Operations   Capital
Resources and Liquidity   Regulation and Supervision
and Note 15 to Consolidated Financial Statements.

Competition  

AIG s Insurance, Financial Services and Asset Management
businesses operate in highly competitive environments, both
domestically and overseas. Principal sources of competition are
insurance companies, banks, investment banks and other non-bank
financial institutions.

The insurance industry in particular is highly competitive.
Within the United States, AIG s General Insurance
subsidiaries compete with approximately 3,400 other stock
companies, specialty insurance organizations, mutual companies
and other underwriting organizations. AIG s subsidiaries
offering Life Insurance & Retirement Services compete
in the United States with approximately 2,100 life insurance
companies and other participants in related financial services
fields. Overseas, AIG subsidiaries compete for business with
foreign insurance operations of the larger U.S. insurers,
global insurance groups and local companies in particular areas
in which they are active.

Directors and Executive Officers of
AIG  

All directors of AIG are elected for one-year terms at the
annual meeting of shareholders. All executive officers are
elected to one-year terms, but serve at the pleasure of the
Board of Directors.

Except as hereinafter noted, each of the executive officers has,
for more than five years, occupied an executive position with
AIG or companies that are now its subsidiaries. Other than the
employment contracts between AIG and Messrs. Sullivan and
Bensinger, there are no other arrangements or understandings
between any executive officer and any other person pursuant to
which the executive officer was elected to such position. From
January 2000 until joining AIG in May 2004, Dr. Frenkel
served as Chairman of Merrill Lynch International, Inc. Prior to
joining AIG in September 2006, Ms. Kelly served as
Executive Vice President and General Counsel of MCI/ WorldCom.
Previously, she was Senior Vice President and General Counsel of
Sears, Roebuck and Co. from 1999 to 2003. From June 2004 until
joining AIG in May 2007, Mr. Kaslow was a managing partner
of QuanStar Group, LLC (an advisory services firm), and, from
January 2002 until May 2004, Mr. Kaslow was Senior
Executive Vice President of Human Resources for Vivendi
Universal (an entertainment and telecommunications company).

14         AIG
2007 Form  10-K 

Table of Contents   

American International Group, Inc. and Subsidiaries

Set forth below is information concerning the directors and
executive officers of AIG as of February 28, 2008. 

AIG 2007
Form  10-K          
15 

Table of Contents   

American International Group, Inc. and Subsidiaries

Item 1A.   
 Risk Factors 

Casualty Insurance Underwriting and
Reserves

Casualty insurance liabilities are difficult to predict and
may exceed the related reserves for losses and loss
expenses.  Although AIG annually reviews the adequacy of the
established reserve for losses and loss expenses, there can be
no assurance that AIG s loss reserves will not develop
adversely and have a material effect on AIG s results of
operations. Estimation of ultimate net losses, loss expenses and
loss reserves is a complex process for long-tail casualty lines
of business, which include excess and umbrella liability,
D&O, professional liability, medical malpractice, workers
compensation, general liability, products liability and related
classes, as well as for asbestos and environmental exposures.
Generally, actual historical loss development factors are used
to project future loss development. However, there can be no
assurance that future loss development patterns will be the same
as in the past. Moreover, any deviation in loss cost trends or
in loss development factors might not be discernible for an
extended period of time subsequent to the recording of the
initial loss reserve estimates for any accident year. Thus,
there is the potential for reserves with respect to a number of
years to be significantly affected by changes in loss cost
trends or loss development factors that were relied upon in
setting the reserves. These changes in loss cost trends or loss
development factors could be attributable to changes in
inflation or in the judicial environment, or in other social or
economic phenomena affecting claims, such as the effects that
the recent disruption in the credit markets could have on
reported claims under D&O or professional liability
coverages. See also Management s Discussion and Analysis of
Financial Condition and Results of Operations  
Operating Review   General Insurance
Operations   Reserve for Losses and Loss Expenses.

Credit Market Environment

AIG s businesses may continue to be adversely affected
by the current disruption in the global credit markets and
repricing of credit risk.  During the second half of 2007,
disruption in the global credit markets, coupled with the
repricing of credit risk, and the U.S. housing market
deterioration created increasingly difficult conditions in the
financial markets. These conditions have resulted in greater
volatility, less liquidity, widening of credit spreads and a
lack of price transparency in certain markets. These conditions
continue to adversely affect Mortgage Guaranty s results of
operations and the fair value of the AIGFP super senior credit
default swap portfolio and contribute to higher levels of
finance receivables delinquencies at AGF and to the severe and
rapid decline in the fair value of certain investment
securities, particularly those backed by U.S. residential
mortgage loans. It is difficult to predict how long these
conditions will exist and how AIG s markets, products and
businesses will continue to be adversely affected. Accordingly,
these conditions could adversely affect AIG s consolidated
financial condition or results of operations in future periods.
In addition, litigation and regulatory or governmental
investigations and inquiries have been commenced against AIG
related to these events and AIG may become subject to further
litigation and regulatory or governmental scrutiny as a result
of these events.

Risk Management

AIG is exposed to a number of significant risks, and
AIG s risk management processes and controls may not be
fully effective in mitigating AIG s risk exposures in all
market conditions and to all types of risk.  The major risks
to which AIG is exposed include: credit risk, market risk,
operational risk, liquidity risk and insurance risk. AIG has
devoted significant resources to the development and
implementation of risk management processes and controls across
AIG s operations, including by establishing review and
oversight committees to monitor risks, setting limits and
identifying risk mitigating strategies and techniques.
Nonetheless, these procedures may not be fully effective in
mitigating risk exposure in all market conditions, some of which
change rapidly and severely. A failure of AIG s risk
management processes or the ineffectiveness of AIG s risk
mitigating strategies and techniques could adversely affect,
perhaps materially, AIG s consolidated results of
operations, liquidity or financial condition, result in
regulatory action or litigation or damage AIG s reputation.
See Management s Discussion and Analysis of Financial
Condition and Results of Operations   Risk Management.

Liquidity

AIG s liquidity could be impaired by an inability to
access the capital markets or by unforeseen significant outflows
of cash.  This situation may arise due to circumstances that
AIG may be unable to control, such as a general market
disruption or an operational problem that affects third parties
or AIG. In addition, this situation may arise due to
circumstances specific to AIG, such as a decline in its credit
ratings. AIG depends on dividends, distributions and other
payments from its subsidiaries to fund dividend payments and to
fund payments on AIG s obligations, including debt
obligations. Regulatory and other legal restrictions may limit
AIG s ability to transfer funds freely, either to or from
its subsidiaries. In particular, many of AIG s
subsidiaries, including AIG s insurance subsidiaries, are
subject to laws and regulations that authorize regulatory bodies
to block or reduce the flow of funds to the parent holding
company, or that prohibit such transfers altogether in certain
circumstances. These laws and regulations may hinder AIG s
ability to access funds that AIG may need to make payments on
its obligations. See also Item 1. Business  
Regulation.

Some of AIG s investments are relatively illiquid and
would be difficult to sell, or to sell at acceptable prices, if
AIG required cash in amounts greater than its customary
needs.  AIG s investments in certain securities,
including certain structured securities, direct private
equities, limited partnerships, hedge funds, mortgage loans,
flight equipment, finance receivables and real estate are
relatively illiquid. These asset classes represented
approximately 23 percent of the carrying value of AIG s
total cash and invested assets as of December 31, 2007. In
addition, the current disruption in the credit markets has
affected the liquidity of other AIG portfolios

16         AIG
2007 Form  10-K 

Table of Contents   

American International Group, Inc. and Subsidiaries

including the residential mortgage-backed securities portfolio.
If AIG requires significant amounts of cash on short notice in
excess of normal cash requirements or is required to post or
return collateral in connection with its investment portfolio,
derivative transactions or securities lending activities, then
AIG may have difficulty selling these investments or terminating
these transactions in a timely manner or may be forced to sell
or terminate them for less than what AIG might otherwise have
been able to, or both. Although AIGFP has no current intent to
do so, if AIGFP sells or closes out its derivative transactions
prior to maturity, the effect could be significant to AIG s
overall liquidity.

AIG s liquidity may be adversely affected by
requirements to post collateral.  Certain of the credit
default swaps written by AIGFP contain collateral posting
requirements. The amount of collateral required to be posted for
most of these transactions is determined based on the value of
the security or loan referenced in the documentation for the
credit default swap. Continued declines in the values of these
referenced securities or loans will increase the amount of
collateral AIGFP must post which could impair AIG s
liquidity.

See also Management s Discussion and Analysis of Financial
Condition and Results of Operations   Capital
Resources and Liquidity   Liquidity.

Investment Concentration

Concentration of AIG s investment portfolios in any
particular segment of the economy may have adverse effects.
 Any concentration of AIG s investment portfolios in any
particular industry, group of related industries, asset classes,
such as residential mortgage-backed securities and other
asset-backed securities, or geographic sector could have an
adverse effect on the investment portfolios and consequently on
AIG s consolidated results of operations or financial
condition. While AIG seeks to mitigate this risk by having a
broadly diversified portfolio, events or developments that have
a negative effect on any particular industry, asset class, group
of related industries or geographic region may have a greater
adverse effect on the investment portfolios to the extent that
the portfolios are concentrated. Further, AIG s ability to
sell assets relating to such particular groups of related assets
may be limited if other market participants are seeking to sell
at the same time.

Credit Ratings

Ratings actions regarding AIG could adversely affect
AIG s business and its consolidated results of
operations.  Following AIG s filing with the SEC on
February 11, 2008 of a Current Report on
Form  8-K  regarding
the valuation of AIGFP s super senior credit default swap
portfolio and reporting the conclusion by AIG s independent
auditors that AIG had a material weakness in internal control
over financial reporting and oversight relating to this
valuation, the following credit rating actions were taken:

Standard & Poor s, a division of The McGraw-Hill
    Companies, Inc. (S&P) affirmed its  AA 
    counterparty credit ratings on AIG and its  AA+ 
    counterparty credit and financial strength ratings on AIG s
    core subsidiaries, but revised the rating outlook to negative.
    In addition, S&P revised its rating outlook on ILFC s
    corporate credit rating (AA-) to negative. A negative ratings
    outlook by S&P indicates that a rating may be lowered, but
    is not necessarily a precursor of a ratings change. 

Moody s Investors Service (Moody s) changed its rating
    outlook for AIG and its subsidiaries that have substantial
    exposure to the U.S. subprime mortgage market or whose ratings
    rely on significant explicit or implicit support from AIG to
    negative. Moody s rates AIG  Aa2  and nearly all
    of its insurance subsidiaries either  Aa1  or
     Aa2 . A negative ratings outlook by Moody s
    indicates that a rating may be lowered, but is not necessarily a
    precursor of a ratings change. 

Fitch Ratings (Fitch) placed AIG s and its
    subsidiaries  long-term debt ratings (AA), including ILFC
    (A+) and AGF (A+), on Rating Watch Negative. Rating Watch
    Negative indicates that a rating has been placed on active
    rating watch status. Fitch indicated that it expects to resolve
    the Rating Watch after it reviews AIG s 2007 audited
    financial statements. 

A.M. Best Company (A.M. Best) placed most of its financial
    strength and issuer credit ratings on AIG s domestic Life
    Insurance and Retirement Services (A++) and Domestic General
    Insurance subsidiaries (including Transatlantic) (A+), as well
    as AIG s issuer credit rating (AA), under review with
    negative implications. A.M. Best indicated that following a
    detailed review of AIG s 2007 audited financial statements
    and further discussion with AIG management, it will re-evaluate
    the  under review  rating status. 

Financial strength and credit ratings by the major ratings
agencies are an important factor in establishing the competitive
position of insurance companies and other financial institutions
and affect the availability and cost of borrowings. Financial
strength ratings measure an insurance company s ability to
meet its obligations to contract holders and policyholders, help
to maintain public confidence in a company s products,
facilitate marketing of products and enhance a company s
competitive position. Credit ratings measure a company s
ability to repay its obligations and directly affect the cost
and availability to that company of unsecured financing.
AIG s ratings have historically provided it with a
competitive advantage. However, a ratings downgrade could
adversely affect AIG s business and its consolidated
results of operations in a number of ways, including:

increasing AIG s interest expense; 

reducing AIGFP s ability to compete in the structured
    products and derivatives businesses; 

reducing the competitive advantage of AIG s insurance
    subsidiaries, which may result in reduced product sales; 

adversely affecting relationships with agents and sales
    representatives; 

in the case of a downgrade of AGF or ILFC, increasing their
    interest expense and reducing their ability to compete in their
    respective businesses; and 

triggering the application of a termination provision in certain
    of AIG s contracts, principally agreements entered into by
    AIGFP and assumed reinsurance contracts entered into by
    Transatlantic. 

AIG 2007
Form  10-K          
17 

Table of Contents   

American International Group, Inc. and Subsidiaries

In the event of a downgrade of AIG, AIG would be required to
post additional collateral. It is estimated that, as of the
close of business on February 14, 2008, based on AIG s
outstanding municipal GIAs and financial derivatives
transactions as of such date, a further downgrade of AIG s
long-term senior debt ratings to Aa3 by Moody s or AA- by
S&P would permit counterparties to call for approximately
$1.39 billion of additional collateral. Further, additional
downgrades could result in requirements for substantial
additional collateral, which could have a material effect on how
AIG manages its liquidity. For a further discussion of
AIG s credit ratings and the potential effect of posting
collateral on AIG s liquidity, see Management s
Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of
Operations   Capital Resources and
Liquidity   Credit Ratings and   Liquidity.

Catastrophe Exposures

The occurrence of catastrophic events could adversely affect
AIG s consolidated financial condition or results of
operations.  The occurrence of events such as hurricanes,
earthquakes, pandemic disease, acts of terrorism and other
catastrophes could adversely affect AIG s consolidated
financial condition or results of operations, including by
exposing AIG s businesses to the following:

widespread claim costs associated with property, workers
    compensation, mortality and morbidity claims; 

loss resulting from the value of invested assets declining to
    below the amount required to meet the policy and contract
    liabilities; and 

loss resulting from actual policy experience emerging adversely
    in comparison to the assumptions made in the product pricing
    related to mortality, morbidity, termination and expenses. 

Reinsurance

Reinsurance may not be available or affordable.  AIG
subsidiaries are major purchasers of reinsurance and utilize
reinsurance as part of AIG s overall risk management
strategy. Reinsurance is an important risk management tool to
manage transaction and insurance line risk retention, and to
mitigate losses that may arise from catastrophes. Market
conditions beyond AIG s control determine the availability
and cost of the reinsurance purchased by AIG subsidiaries. For
example, reinsurance may be more difficult to obtain after a
year with a large number of major catastrophes. Accordingly, AIG
may be forced to incur additional expenses for reinsurance or
may be unable to obtain sufficient reinsurance on acceptable
terms, in which case AIG would have to accept an increase in
exposure risk, reduce the amount of business written by its
subsidiaries or seek alternatives.

Reinsurance subjects AIG to the credit risk of its reinsurers
and may not be adequate to protect AIG against losses.
 Although reinsurance makes the reinsurer liable to the AIG
subsidiary to the extent the risk is ceded subject to the terms
and conditions of the reinsurance contracts in place, it does
not relieve the AIG subsidiary of the primary liability to its
policyholders. Accordingly, AIG bears credit risk with respect
to its subsidiaries  reinsurers to the extent not mitigated
by collateral or other credit enhancements. A reinsurer s
insolvency or inability or refusal to make timely payments under
the terms of its agreements with the AIG subsidiaries could have
a material adverse effect on AIG s results of operations
and liquidity. See also Management s Discussion and
Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of
Operations   Risk Management   Reinsurance.

Adjustments to Life Insurance &
Retirement Services Deferred Policy  
 Acquisition Costs

Interest rate fluctuations and other events may require AIG
subsidiaries to accelerate the amortization of deferred policy
acquisition costs (DAC) which could adversely affect
AIG s consolidated financial condition or results of
operations.  DAC represents the costs that vary with and are
related primarily to the acquisition of new and renewal
insurance and annuity contracts. When interest rates rise,
policy loans and surrenders and withdrawals of life insurance
policies and annuity contracts may increase as policyholders
seek to buy products with perceived higher returns, requiring
AIG subsidiaries to accelerate the amortization of DAC. To the
extent such amortization exceeds surrender or other charges
earned upon surrender and withdrawals of certain life insurance
policies and annuity contracts, AIG s results of operations
could be negatively affected.

DAC for both insurance-oriented and investment-oriented products
as well as retirement services products is reviewed for
recoverability, which involves estimating the future
profitability of current business. This review involves
significant management judgment. If the actual emergence of
future profitability were to be substantially lower than
estimated, AIG could be required to accelerate its DAC
amortization and such acceleration could adversely affect
AIG s results of operations. See also Management s
Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of
Operations   Critical Accounting Estimates and
Notes 1 and 6 to Consolidated Financial Statements.

Use of Estimates

If actual experience differs from management s estimates
used in the preparation of financial statements, AIG s
consolidated results of operations or financial condition could
be adversely affected.  The preparation of financial
statements in conformity with accounting principles generally
accepted in the United States requires the application of
accounting policies that often involve a significant degree of
judgment. AIG considers that its accounting policies that are
most dependent on the application of estimates and assumptions,
and therefore viewed as critical accounting estimates, are those
described in Management s Discussion and Analysis of
Financial Condition and Results of Operations  
Critical Accounting Estimates. These accounting estimates
require the use of assumptions, some of which are highly
uncertain at the time of estimation. For example, recent market
volatility and declines in liquidity have made it more difficult
to value certain of AIG s invested assets and the
obligations and collateral relating to certain financial
instruments issued or held by AIG, such as

18         AIG
2007 Form  10-K 

Table of Contents   

American International Group, Inc. and Subsidiaries

AIGFP s super senior credit default swap portfolio. To the
extent actual experience differs from the assumptions used,
AIG s consolidated results of operations or financial
condition would be directly affected, perhaps materially.

Legal Proceedings

Significant legal proceedings may adversely affect AIG s
results of operations.  AIG is party to numerous legal
proceedings and regulatory or governmental investigations. It is
possible that the effect of these unresolved matters could be
material to AIG s consolidated results of operations for an
individual reporting period. For a discussion of these
unresolved matters, see Item 3. Legal Proceedings.

Foreign Operations

Foreign operations expose AIG to risks that may affect its
operations, liquidity and financial condition.  AIG provides
insurance, investment and other financial products and services
to both businesses and individuals in more than 130 countries
and jurisdictions. A substantial portion of AIG s General
Insurance business and a majority of its Life Insurance &
Retirement Services business is conducted outside the United
States. Operations outside of the United States, particularly
those in developing nations, may be affected by regional
economic downturns, changes in foreign currency exchange rates,
political upheaval, nationalization and other restrictive
government actions, which could also affect other AIG operations.

The degree of regulation and supervision in foreign
jurisdictions varies. Generally, AIG, as well as its
subsidiaries operating in such jurisdictions, must satisfy local
regulatory requirements. Licenses issued by foreign authorities
to AIG subsidiaries are subject to modification and revocation.
Thus, AIG s insurance subsidiaries could be prevented from
conducting future business in certain of the jurisdictions where
they currently operate. Adverse actions from any single country
could adversely affect AIG s results of operations,
liquidity and financial condition depending on the magnitude of
the event and AIG s net financial exposure at that time in
that country.

Regulation

AIG is subject to extensive regulation in the jurisdictions
in which it conducts its businesses.  AIG s operations
around the world are subject to regulation by different types of
regulatory authorities, including insurance, securities,
investment advisory, banking and thrift regulators in the United
States and abroad. AIG s operations have become more
diverse and consumer-oriented, increasing the scope of
regulatory supervision and the possibility of intervention. In
particular, AIG s consumer lending business is subject to a
broad array of laws and regulations governing lending practices
and permissible loan terms, and AIG would expect increased
regulatory oversight relating to this business.

The regulatory environment could have a significant effect on
AIG and its businesses. Among other things, AIG could be fined,
prohibited from engaging in some of its business activities or
subject to limitations or conditions on its business activities.
Significant regulatory action against AIG could have material
adverse financial effects, cause significant reputational harm
or harm business prospects. New laws or regulations or changes
in the enforcement of existing laws or regulations applicable to
clients may also adversely affect AIG and its businesses.

A Material Weakness

A material weakness in internal control over financial
reporting and oversight relating to the AIGFP valuation of its
super senior credit default swap portfolio could adversely
affect the accuracy or timing of future regulatory filings.
 AIG s management has concluded that a material weakness
relating to the internal control over financial reporting and
oversight relating to the fair value valuation of the AIGFP
super senior credit default swap portfolio existed as of
December 31, 2007. Until remediated, this weakness could
adversely affect the accuracy or timing of future filings with
the SEC and other regulatory authorities. A discussion of this
material weakness and AIG s remediation efforts can be
found in Item 9A. Controls and Procedures  
Management s Report on Internal Control Over Financial
Reporting.

Employee Error and Misconduct

Employee error and misconduct may be difficult to detect and
prevent and may result in significant losses.  Losses may
result from, among other things, fraud, errors, failure to
document transactions properly or to obtain proper internal
authorization or failure to comply with regulatory requirements.

There have been a number of highly publicized cases involving
fraud or other misconduct by employees in the financial services
industry in recent years, and AIG runs the risk that employee
misconduct could occur. It is not always possible to deter or
prevent employee misconduct and the controls that AIG has in
place to prevent and detect this activity may not be effective
in all cases.

Aircraft Suppliers

There are limited suppliers of aircraft and engines.  The
supply of jet transport aircraft, which ILFC purchases and
leases, is dominated by two airframe manufacturers, Boeing and
Airbus, and a limited number of engine manufacturers. As a
result, ILFC is dependent on the manufacturers  success in
remaining financially stable, producing aircraft and related
components which meet the airlines  demands, both in type
and quantity, and fulfilling their contractual obligations to
ILFC. Competition between the manufacturers for market share is
intense and may lead to instances of deep discounting for
certain aircraft types and could negatively affect ILFC s
competitive pricing.

Item 1B.   
 Unresolved Staff Comments 

There are no material unresolved written comments that were
received from the SEC staff 180 days or more before the end
of AIG s fiscal year relating to AIG s periodic or
current reports under the Exchange Act.

AIG 2007
Form  10-K          
19 

Table of Contents   

American International Group, Inc. and Subsidiaries

Item 2.   
 Properties 

AIG and its subsidiaries operate from approximately 2,100
offices in the United States, 6 offices in Canada and numerous
offices in approximately 100 foreign countries. The offices in
Greensboro and Winston-Salem, North Carolina; Springfield,
Illinois; Amarillo, Ft. Worth, Houston and Lewisville, Texas;
Wilmington, Delaware; San Juan, Puerto Rico; Tampa, Florida;
Livingston, New Jersey; Evansville, Indiana; Nashville,
Tennessee; 70 Pine Street, 72 Wall Street and 175 Water Street
in New York, New York; and offices in more than 30 foreign
countries and jurisdictions including Bermuda, Chile, Hong Kong,
the Philippines, Japan, the U.K., Singapore, Malaysia,
Switzerland, Taiwan and Thailand are located in buildings owned
by AIG and its subsidiaries. The remainder of the office space
utilized by AIG subsidiaries is leased.

Item 3.   
 Legal Proceedings 

General

AIG and its subsidiaries, in common with the insurance industry
in general, are subject to litigation, including claims for
punitive damages, in the normal course of their business. See
also Note 12(a) to Consolidated Financial Statements, as
well as the discussion and analysis of Reserve for Losses and
Loss Expenses under Operating Review   General
Insurance Operations in Management s Discussion and
Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations.

Litigation Arising from Operations.  AIG and its
subsidiaries, in common with the insurance and financial
services industries in general, are subject to litigation,
including claims for punitive damages, in the normal course of
their business. In AIG s insurance operations, litigation
arising from claims settlement activities is generally
considered in the establishment of AIG s reserve for losses
and loss expenses. However, the potential for increasing jury
awards and settlements makes it difficult to assess the ultimate
outcome of such litigation.

Litigation Arising from Insurance Operations  
Caremark.  AIG and certain of its subsidiaries have been
named defendants in two putative class actions in state court in
Alabama that arise out of the 1999 settlement of class and
derivative litigation involving Caremark Rx, Inc. (Caremark).
The plaintiffs in the second-filed action have intervened in the
first-filed action, and the second-filed action has been
dismissed. An excess policy issued by a subsidiary of AIG with
respect to the 1999 litigation was expressly stated to be
without limit of liability. In the current actions, plaintiffs
allege that the judge approving the 1999 settlement was misled
as to the extent of available insurance coverage and would not
have approved the settlement had he known of the existence
and/or unlimited nature of the excess policy. They further
allege that AIG, its subsidiaries, and Caremark are liable for
fraud and suppression for misrepresenting and/or concealing the
nature and extent of coverage. In addition, the
intervenor-plaintiffs allege that various lawyers and law firms
who represented parties in the underlying class and derivative
litigation (the  Lawyer Defendants ) are also liable
for fraud and suppression, misrepresentation, and breach of
fiduciary duty. The complaints filed by the plaintiffs and the
intervenor-plaintiffs request compensatory damages for the 1999
class in the amount of $3.2 billion, plus punitive damages.
AIG and its subsidiaries deny the allegations of fraud and
suppression and have asserted that information concerning the
excess policy was publicly disclosed months prior to the
approval of the settlement. AIG and its subsidiaries further
assert that the current claims are barred by the statute of
limitations and that plaintiffs  assertions that the
statute was tolled cannot stand against the public disclosure of
the excess coverage. The plaintiffs and intervenor-plaintiffs,
in turn, have asserted that the disclosure was insufficient to
inform them of the nature of the coverage and did not start the
running of the statute of limitations. On November 26,
2007, the trial court issued an order that dismissed the
intervenors  complaint against the Lawyer Defendants and
entered a final judgment in favor of the Lawyer Defendants. The
intervenors are appealing the dismissal of the Lawyer Defendants
and have requested a stay of all trial court proceedings pending
the appeal. If the motion to stay is granted, no further
proceedings at the trial court level will occur until the appeal
is resolved. If the motion to stay is denied, the next step will
be to proceed with class discovery so that the trial court can
determine, under standards mandated by the Alabama Supreme
Court, whether the action should proceed as a class action. AIG
cannot reasonably estimate either the likelihood of its
prevailing in these actions or the potential damages in the
event liability is determined.

Litigation Arising from Insurance Operations  
Gunderson.  A subsidiary of AIG has been named as a defendant
in a putative class action lawsuit in the 14th Judicial District
Court for the State of Louisiana (Gunderson). The
 Gunderson  complaint alleges failure to comply with
certain provisions of the Louisiana Any Willing Provider Act
(the Act) relating to discounts taken by defendants on bills
submitted by Louisiana medical providers and hospitals that
provided treatment or services to workers compensation claimants
and seeks monetary penalties and injunctive relief. On
July 20, 2006, the court denied defendants  motion for
summary judgment and granted plaintiffs  partial motion for
summary judgment, holding that the AIG subsidiary was a
 group purchaser  and, therefore, potentially subject
to liability under the Act. On November 28, 2006, the court
issued an order certifying a class of providers and hospitals.
In an unrelated action also arising under the Act, a Louisiana
appellate court ruled that the district court lacked
jurisdiction to adjudicate the claims at issue. In response,
defendants in  Gunderson  filed an exception for lack of
subject matter jurisdiction. On January 19, 2007, the court
denied the motion, holding that it has jurisdiction over the
putative class claims. The AIG subsidiary appealed the class
certification and jurisdictional rulings. While the appeal was
pending, the AIG subsidiary settled the lawsuit. On
January 25, 2008, plaintiffs and the AIG subsidiary agreed
to resolve the lawsuit on a class-wide basis for approximately
$29 million. The court has preliminarily approved the
settlement and will hold a final approval hearing on
May 29, 2008. In the event that the settlement is not
finally approved, AIG believes that it has meritorious defenses
to

20         AIG
2007 Form  10-K 

Table of Contents   

American International Group, Inc. and Subsidiaries

plaintiffs  claims and expects that the ultimate resolution
of this matter will not have a material adverse effect on
AIG s consolidated financial condition or results of
operations for any period.

2006 Regulatory Settlements.  In February 2006, AIG
reached a resolution of claims and matters under investigation
with the United States Department of Justice (DOJ), the
Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC), the Office of the New
York Attorney General (NYAG) and the New York State
Department of Insurance (DOI). AIG recorded an after-tax charge
of $1.15 billion relating to these settlements in the
fourth quarter of 2005.

The settlements resolved investigations conducted by the SEC,
NYAG and DOI in connection with the accounting, financial
reporting and insurance brokerage practices of AIG and its
subsidiaries, as well as claims relating to the underpayment of
certain workers compensation premium taxes and other
assessments. These settlements did not, however, resolve
investigations by regulators from other states into insurance
brokerage practices related to contingent commissions and other
broker-related conduct, such as alleged bid rigging. Nor did the
settlements resolve any obligations that AIG may have to state
guarantee funds in connection with any of these matters.

As a result of these settlements, AIG made payments or placed
amounts in escrow in 2006 totaling approximately
$1.64 billion, $225 million of which represented fines
and penalties. Amounts held in escrow totaling
$347 million, including interest thereon, are included in
other assets at December 31, 2007. At that date,
approximately $330 million of the funds were escrowed for
settlement of claims resulting from the underpayment by AIG of
its residual market assessments for workers compensation. On May
24, 2007, The National Workers Compensation Reinsurance Pool, on
behalf of its participant members, filed a lawsuit against AIG
with respect to the underpayment of such assessments. On
August 6, 2007, the court denied AIG s motion seeking
to dismiss or stay the complaint or in the alternative, to
transfer to the Southern District of New York. On
December 26, 2007, the court denied AIG s motion to
dismiss the complaint. AIG filed its answer on January 22,
2008. On February 5, 2008, following agreement of the
parties, the court entered an order staying all proceedings
through March 3, 2008. In addition, a similar lawsuit filed
by the Minnesota Workers Compensation Reinsurance Association
and the Minnesota Workers Compensation Insurers Association is
pending. On August 6, 2007, AIG moved to dismiss the
complaint and that motion is under review. A purported class
action was filed in South Carolina Federal Court on
January 25, 2008 against AIG and certain of its
subsidiaries, on behalf of a class of employers that obtained
workers compensation insurance from AIG companies and allegedly
paid inflated premiums as a result of AIG s alleged
underreporting of workers compensation premiums. AIG cannot
currently estimate whether the amount ultimately required to
settle these claims will exceed the funds escrowed or otherwise
accrued for this purpose.

AIG has settled litigation that was filed by the Minnesota
Attorney General with respect to claims by the Minnesota
Department of Revenue and the Minnesota Special Compensation
Fund.

The National Association of Insurance Commissioners has formed a
Market Analysis Working Group directed by the State of Indiana,
which has commenced its own investigation into the
underreporting of workers compensation premiums. In early 2008,
AIG was informed that the Market Analysis Working Group had been
disbanded in favor of a multi-state targeted market conduct exam
focusing on worker s compensation insurance.

The remaining escrowed funds, which amounted to $17 million at
December 31, 2007, are set aside for settlements for
certain specified AIG policyholders. As of February 20,
2008, eligible policyholders entitled to receive approximately
$359 million (or 95 percent) of the excess casualty
fund had opted to receive settlement payments in exchange for
releasing AIG and its subsidiaries from liability relating to
certain insurance brokerage practices. Amounts remaining in the
excess casualty fund may be used by AIG to settle claims from
other policyholders relating to such practices through
February 29, 2008 (originally set for January 31, 2008
and later extended), after which they will be distributed pro
rata to participating policyholders.

In addition to the escrowed funds, $800 million was deposited
into a fund under the supervision of the SEC as part of the
settlements to be available to resolve claims asserted against
AIG by investors, including the shareholder lawsuits described
herein.

Also, as part of the settlements, AIG agreed to retain, for a
period of three years, an independent consultant to conduct a
review that will include, among other things, the adequacy of
AIG s internal control over financial reporting, the
policies, procedures and effectiveness of AIG s regulatory,
compliance and legal functions and the remediation plan that AIG
has implemented as a result of its own internal review.

Other than as described above, at the current time, AIG cannot
predict the outcome of the matters described above, or estimate
any potential additional costs related to these matters.

Private Litigation

Securities Actions.  Beginning in October 2004, a number
of putative securities fraud class action suits were filed
against AIG and consolidated as  In re American International
Group, Inc. Securities Litigation.  Subsequently, a separate,
though similar, securities fraud action was also brought against
AIG by certain Florida pension funds. The lead plaintiff in the
class action is a group of public retirement systems and pension
funds benefiting Ohio state employees, suing on behalf of
themselves and all purchasers of AIG s publicly traded
securities between October 28, 1999 and April 1, 2005.
The named defendants are AIG and a number of present and former
AIG officers and directors, as well as
C.V. Starr & Co., Inc. (Starr), Starr
International Company, Inc. (SICO), General Reinsurance
Corporation, and PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP (PwC), among others.
The lead plaintiff alleges, among other things, that AIG:
(1) concealed that it engaged in anti-competitive conduct
through alleged payment of contingent commissions to brokers and
participation in illegal bid-rigging; (2) concealed that it
used  income smoothing  products and other techniques
to inflate its earnings; (3) concealed that it marketed and
sold  income smoothing  insurance products to other
companies; and (4) misled investors about the scope of

AIG 2007
Form  10-K          
21 

Table of Contents   

American International Group, Inc. and Subsidiaries

government investigations. In addition, the lead plaintiff
alleges that AIG s former Chief Executive Officer
manipulated AIG s stock price. The lead plaintiff asserts
claims for violations of Sections 11 and 15 of the
Securities Act of 1933, Section 10(b) of the Exchange Act,
and Rule  10b-5 
promulgated thereunder, Section 20(a) of the Exchange Act,
and Section 20A of the Exchange Act. In April 2006, the
court denied the defendants  motions to dismiss the second
amended class action complaint and the Florida complaint. In
December 2006, a third amended class action complaint was filed,
which does not differ substantially from the prior complaint.
Fact and class discovery is currently ongoing. On
February 20, 2008, the lead plaintiff filed a motion for
class certification.

ERISA Action.  Between November 30, 2004 and
July 1, 2005, several Employee Retirement Income Security
Act of 1974 (ERISA) actions were filed on behalf of
purported class of participants and beneficiaries of three
pension plans sponsored by AIG or its subsidiaries. A
consolidated complaint filed on September 26, 2005 alleges
a class period between September 30, 2000 and May 31,
2005 and names as defendants AIG, the members of AIG s
Retirement Board and the Administrative Boards of the plans at
issue, and four present or former members of AIG s Board of
Directors. The factual allegations in the complaint are
essentially identical to those in the securities actions
described above. The parties have reached an agreement in
principle to settle this matter for an amount within AIG s
insurance coverage limits.

Securities Action   Oregon State Court.  On
February 27, 2008, The State of Oregon, by and through the
Oregon State Treasurer, and the Oregon Public Employee
Retirement Board, on behalf of the Oregon Public Employee
Retirement Fund, filed a lawsuit against American International
Group, Inc. for damages arising out of plaintiffs  purchase
of AIG common stock at prices that allegedly were inflated.
Plaintiffs allege, among other things, that AIG: (1) made
false and misleading statements concerning its accounting for a
$500 million transaction with General Re;
(2) concealed that it marketed and misrepresented its
control over off-shore entities in order to improve financial
results; (3) improperly accounted for underwriting losses
as investment losses in connection with transactions involving
CAPCO Reinsurance Company, Ltd. and Union Excess;
(4) misled investors about the scope of government
investigations; and (5) engaged in market manipulation
through its then Chairman and CEO Maurice R. Greenberg. The
complaint asserts claims for violations of Oregon Securities
Law, and seeks compensatory damages in an amount in excess of
$15 million, and prejudgement interest and costs and fees.

Derivative Actions   Southern District of New York.
 On November 20, 2007, two purported shareholder derivative
actions were filed in the Southern District of New York naming
as defendants the then-current directors of AIG and certain
senior officers of AIG and its subsidiaries. Plaintiffs assert
claims for breach of fiduciary duty, waste of corporate assets
and unjust enrichment, as well as violations of
Section 10(b) of the Exchange Act and
Rule  10b-5 
promulgated thereunder, and Section 20(a) of the Exchange
Act, among other things, in connection with AIG s public
disclosures regarding its exposure to what the lawsuits describe
as the subprime market crisis. The actions were consolidated as
 In re American International Group, Inc. 2007 Derivative
Litigation . On February 15, 2008, plaintiffs filed a
consolidated amended complaint alleging the same causes of
action.

Between October 25, 2004 and July 14, 2005, seven
separate derivative actions were filed in the Southern District
of New York, five of which were consolidated into a single
action. The New York derivative complaint contains nearly the
same types of allegations made in the securities fraud and ERISA
actions described above. The named defendants include current
and former officers and directors of AIG, as well as Marsh &
McLennan Companies, Inc. (Marsh), SICO, Starr, ACE Limited and
subsidiaries (ACE), General Reinsurance Corporation, PwC, and
certain employees or officers of these entity defendants.
Plaintiffs assert claims for breach of fiduciary duty, gross
mismanagement, waste of corporate assets, unjust enrichment,
insider selling, auditor breach of contract, auditor
professional negligence and disgorgement from AIG s former
Chief Executive Officer and Chief Financial Officer of
incentive-based compensation and AIG share proceeds under
Section 304 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act, among others.
Plaintiffs seek, among other things, compensatory damages,
corporate governance reforms, and a voiding of the election of
certain AIG directors. AIG s Board of Directors has
appointed a special committee of independent directors (special
committee) to review the matters asserted in the operative
consolidated derivative complaint. The court has entered an
order staying the derivative case in the Southern District of
New York pending resolution of the consolidated derivative
action in the Delaware Chancery Court (discussed below). The
court also has entered an order that termination of certain
named defendants from the Delaware derivative action applies to
the New York derivative action without further order of the
court. On October 17, 2007, plaintiffs and those AIG
officer and director defendants against whom the shareholder
plaintiffs in the Delaware action are no longer pursuing claims
filed a stipulation providing for all claims in the New York
action against such defendants to be dismissed with prejudice.
Former directors and officers Maurice R. Greenberg and Howard I.
Smith have asked the court to refrain from so ordering this
stipulation.

Derivative Actions   Delaware Chancery Court.
 From October 2004 to April 2005, AIG shareholders filed five
derivative complaints in the Delaware Chancery Court. All of
these derivative lawsuits were consolidated into a single action
as  In re American International Group, Inc. Consolidated
Derivative Litigation . The amended consolidated complaint
named 43 defendants (not including nominal defendant AIG) who,
like the New York consolidated derivative litigation, were
current and former officers and directors of AIG, as well as
other entities and certain of their current and former employees
and directors. The factual allegations, legal claims and relief
sought in the Delaware action are similar to those alleged in
the New York derivative actions, except that shareholder
plaintiffs in the Delaware derivative action assert claims only
under state law. Earlier in 2007, the Court approved an
agreement that AIG be realigned as plaintiff, and, on
June 13,

22         AIG
2007 Form  10-K 

Table of Contents   

American International Group, Inc. and Subsidiaries

2007, acting on the direction of the special committee, AIG
filed an amended complaint against former directors and officers
Maurice R. Greenberg and Howard I. Smith, alleging breach of
fiduciary duty and indemnification. Also on June 13, 2007,
the special committee filed a motion to terminate the litigation
as to certain defendants, while taking no action as to others.
Defendants Greenberg and Smith filed answers to AIG s
complaint and brought third-party complaints against certain
current and former AIG directors and officers, PwC and
Regulatory Insurance Services, Inc. On September 28, 2007,
AIG and the shareholder plaintiffs filed a combined amended
complaint in which AIG continued to assert claims against
defendants Greenberg and Smith and took no position as to the
claims asserted by the shareholder plaintiffs in the remainder
of the combined amended complaint. In that pleading, the
shareholder plaintiffs are no longer pursuing claims against
certain AIG officers and directors. In November 2007, the
shareholder plaintiffs moved to sever their claims to a separate
action. AIG joined the motion to the extent that, among other
things, the claims against defendants Greenberg and Smith would
remain in prosecution in the pending action. In addition, a
number of parties, including AIG, filed motions to stay
discovery. On February 12, 2008, the court granted
AIG s motion to stay discovery pending the resolution of
claims against AIG in the New York consolidated securities
action. The court also denied plaintiff s motion to sever
and directed the parties to coordinate a briefing schedule for
the motions to dismiss.

A separate derivative lawsuit was filed in December 2002 in the
Delaware Chancery Court against twenty directors and executives
of AIG as well as against AIG as a nominal defendant that
alleges, among other things, that the directors of AIG breached
the fiduciary duties of loyalty and care by approving the
payment of commissions to Starr and of rental and service fees
to SICO and the executives breached their duty of loyalty by
causing AIG to enter into contracts with Starr and SICO and
their fiduciary duties by usurping AIG s corporate
opportunity. The complaint further alleges that the Starr
agencies did not provide any services that AIG was not capable
of providing itself, and that the diversion of commissions to
these entities was solely for the benefit of Starr s
owners. The complaint also alleged that the service fees and
rental payments made to SICO and its subsidiaries were improper.
Under the terms of a stipulation approved by the Court on
February 16, 2006, the claims against the outside
independent directors were dismissed with prejudice, while the
claims against the other directors were dismissed without
prejudice. On October 31, 2005, defendants Greenberg,
Matthews, Smith, SICO and Starr filed motions to dismiss the
amended complaint. In an opinion dated June 21, 2006, the
Court denied defendants  motion to dismiss, except with
respect to plaintiff s challenge to payments made to Starr
before January 1, 2000. On July 21, 2006, plaintiff
filed its second amended complaint, which alleges that, between
January 1, 2000 and May 31, 2005, individual
defendants breached their duty of loyalty by causing AIG to
enter into contracts with Starr and SICO and breached their
fiduciary duties by usurping AIG s corporate opportunity.
Starr is charged with aiding and abetting breaches of fiduciary
duty and unjust enrichment for its acceptance of the fees. SICO
is no longer named as a defendant. On April 20, 2007, the
individual defendants and Starr filed a motion seeking leave of
the Court to assert a cross-claim against AIG and a third-party
complaint against PwC and the directors previously dismissed
from the action, as well as certain other AIG officers and
employees. On June 13, 2007, the Court denied the
individual defendants  motion to file a third-party
complaint, but granted the proposed cross-claim against AIG. On
June 27, 2007, Starr filed its cross-claim against AIG,
alleging one count that includes contribution, unjust enrichment
and setoff. AIG has filed an answer and moved to dismiss
Starr s cross-claim to the extent it seeks affirmative
relief, as opposed to a reduction in the judgment amount. On
November 15, 2007, the court granted AIG s motion to
dismiss the cross-claim by Starr to the extent that it sought
affirmative relief from AIG. On November 21, 2007,
shareholder plaintiffs submitted a motion for leave to file
their Third Amended Complaint in order to add Thomas Tizzio as a
defendant. On February 14, 2008, the court granted this
motion and allowed Mr. Tizzio until April 2008 to take
additional discovery. Document discovery and depositions are
otherwise complete.

Policyholder Actions.  After the NYAG filed its complaint
against insurance broker Marsh, policyholders brought multiple
federal antitrust and Racketeer Influenced and Corrupt
Organizations Act (RICO) class actions in jurisdictions
across the nation against insurers and brokers, including AIG
and a number of its subsidiaries, alleging that the insurers and
brokers engaged in a broad conspiracy to allocate customers,
steer business, and rig bids. These actions, including 24
complaints filed in different federal courts naming AIG or an
AIG subsidiary as a defendant, were consolidated by the judicial
panel on multi-district litigation and transferred to the United
States District Court for the District of New Jersey for
coordinated pretrial proceedings. The consolidated actions have
proceeded in that court in two parallel actions,  In re
Insurance Brokerage Antitrust Litigation  (the  First
Commercial Complaint ) and  In re Employee Benefit
Insurance Brokerage Antitrust Litigation  (the  First
Employee Benefits Complaint,  and, together with the  First
Commercial Complaint,  the multi-district litigation).

The plaintiffs in the  First Commercial Complaint  are
nineteen corporations, individuals and public entities that
contracted with the broker defendants for the provision of
insurance brokerage services for a variety of insurance needs.
The broker defendants are alleged to have placed insurance
coverage on the plaintiffs  behalf with a number of
insurance companies named as defendants, including AIG
subsidiaries. The  First Commercial Complaint  also named
ten brokers and fourteen other insurers as defendants (two of
which have since settled). The  First Commercial Complaint
 alleges that defendants engaged in a widespread conspiracy
to allocate customers through  bid-rigging  and
 steering  practices. The  First Commercial
Complaint  also alleges that the insurer defendants permitted
brokers to place business with AIG subsidiaries through
wholesale intermediaries affiliated with or owned by those same
brokers rather than placing the business with AIG subsidiaries
directly. Finally, the  First Commercial Complaint  alleges
that the insurer defendants entered into agreements with broker
defendants that tied insurance placements to reinsurance
placements in order to provide additional

AIG 2007
Form  10-K          
23 

Table of Contents   

American International Group, Inc. and Subsidiaries

compensation to each broker. Plaintiffs assert that the
defendants violated the Sherman Antitrust Act, RICO, the
antitrust laws of 48 states and the District of Columbia, and
are liable under common law breach of fiduciary duty and unjust
enrichment theories. Plaintiffs seek treble damages plus
interest and attorneys  fees as a result of the alleged
RICO and Sherman Antitrust Act violations.

The plaintiffs in the  First Employee Benefits Complaint
 are nine individual employees and corporate and municipal
employers alleging claims on behalf of two separate nationwide
purported classes: an employee class and an employer class that
acquired insurance products from the defendants from
August 26, 1994 to the date of any class certification. The
 First Employee Benefits Complaint  names AIG, as well as
eleven brokers and five other insurers, as defendants. The
activities alleged in the  First Employee Benefits
Complaint,  with certain exceptions, track the allegations of
contingent commissions, bid-rigging and tying made in the
 First Commercial Complaint. 

On October 3, 2006, Judge Hochberg of the District of New
Jersey reserved in part and denied in part motions filed by the
insurer defendants and broker defendants to dismiss the
multi-district litigation. The Court also ordered the plaintiffs
in both actions to file supplemental statements of particularity
to elaborate on the allegations in their complaints. Plaintiffs
filed their supplemental statements on October 25, 2006,
and the AIG defendants, along with other insurer and broker
defendants in the two consolidated actions, filed renewed
motions to dismiss on November 30, 2006. On
February 16, 2007, the case was transferred to Judge
Garrett E. Brown, Chief Judge of the District of New Jersey. On
April 5, 2007, Chief Judge Brown granted the
defendants  renewed motions to dismiss the  First
Commercial Complaint  and  First Employee Benefits
Complaint  with respect to the antitrust and RICO claims. The
claims were dismissed without prejudice and the plaintiffs were
given 30 days, later extended to 45 days, to file
amended complaints. On April 11, 2007, the Court stayed all
proceedings, including all discovery, that are part of the
multi-district litigation until any renewed motions to dismiss
the amended complaints are resolved.

A number of complaints making allegations similar to those in
the  First Commercial Complaint  have been filed against
AIG and other defendants in state and federal courts around the
country. The defendants have thus far been successful in having
the federal actions transferred to the District of New Jersey
and consolidated into the multi-district litigation. The AIG
defendants have also sought to have state court actions making
similar allegations stayed pending resolution of the
multi-district litigation proceeding. In one state court action
pending in Florida, the trial court recently decided not to
grant an additional stay, but instead to allow the case to
proceed. Defendants filed their motions to dismiss, and on
September 24, 2007, the court denied the motions with
respect to the state antitrust, RICO, and common law claims and
granted the motions with respect to both the Florida insurance
bad faith claim against AIG (with prejudice) and the punitive
damages claim (without prejudice). Discovery in this action is
ongoing.

Plaintiffs filed amended complaints in both  In re Insurance
Brokerage Antitrust Litigation  (the  Second Commercial
Complaint ) and  In re Employee Benefit Insurance Brokerage
Antitrust Litigation  (the  Second Employee Benefits
Complaint ) along with revised particularized statements in
both actions on May 22, 2007. The allegations in the
 Second Commercial Complaint  and the  Second Employee
Benefits Complaint  are substantially similar to the
allegations in the  First Commercial Complaint and First
Employee Benefits Complaint,  respectively. The complaints
also attempt to add several new parties and delete others; the
 Second Commercial Complaint  adds two new plaintiffs and
twenty seven new defendants (including three new AIG
defendants), and the  Second Employee Benefits Complaint
 adds eight new plaintiffs and nine new defendants (including
two new AIG defendants). The defendants filed motions to dismiss
the amended complaints and to strike the newly added parties.
The Court granted (without leave to amend) defendants 
motions to dismiss the federal antitrust and RICO claims on
August 31, 2007 and September 28, 2007, respectively.
The Court declined to exercise supplemental jurisdiction over
the state law claims in the  Second Commercial Complaint
 and therefore dismissed it in its entirety. On
January 14, 2008, the court granted defendants  motion
for summary judgment on the ERISA claims in the Second Employee
Benefits Complaint and subsequently dismissed the remaining
state law claims without prejudice, thereby dismissing the
Second Employee Benefits Complaint in its entirety. On
February 12, 2008, plaintiffs filed a notice of appeal to
the United States Court of Appeals for the Third Circuit with
respect to the dismissal of the Second Employee Benefits
Complaint. Plaintiffs previously appealed the dismissal of the
Second Commercial Complaint to the United States Court of
Appeals for the Third Circuit on October 10, 2007. Several
similar actions that were consolidated before Chief Judge Brown
are still pending in the District Court. Those actions are
currently stayed pending a decision by the court on whether they
will proceed during the appeal of the dismissal of the Second
Commercial Complaint and the Second Employee Benefits Complaint.

On August 24, 2007, the Ohio Attorney General filed a
complaint in the Ohio Court of Common Pleas against AIG and a
number of its subsidiaries, as well as several other broker and
insurer defendants, asserting violation of Ohio s antitrust
laws. The complaint, which is similar to the  Second
Commercial Complaint,  alleges that AIG and the other broker
and insurer defendants conspired to allocate customers, divide
markets, and restrain competition in commercial lines of
casualty insurance sold through the broker defendant. The
complaint seeks treble damages on behalf of Ohio public
purchasers of commercial casualty insurance, disgorgement on
behalf of both public and private purchasers of commercial
casualty insurance, as well as a $500 per day penalty for each
day of conspiratorial conduct. AIG, along with other
co-defendants, moved to dismiss the complaint on
November 16, 2007. Discovery is stayed in the case pending
a ruling on the motion to dismiss or until May 15, 2008,
whichever occurs first.

SICO.  In July, 2005, SICO filed a complaint against AIG
in the Southern District of New York, claiming that AIG had
refused to provide SICO access to certain artwork and asked the
court to order AIG immediately to release the property to SICO.
AIG filed

24         AIG
2007 Form  10-K 

Table of Contents   

American International Group, Inc. and Subsidiaries

an answer denying SICO s allegations and setting forth
defenses to SICO s claims. In addition, AIG filed
counterclaims asserting breach of contract, unjust enrichment,
conversion, breach of fiduciary duty, a constructive trust and
declaratory judgment, relating to SICO s breach of its
commitment to use its AIG shares only for the benefit of AIG and
AIG employees. Fact and expert discovery has been concluded and
SICO s motion for summary judgment is pending.

Regulatory Investigations.  Regulators from several states
have commenced investigations into insurance brokerage practices
related to contingent commissions and other industry wide
practices as well as other broker-related conduct, such as
alleged bid-rigging. In addition, various federal, state and
foreign regulatory and governmental agencies are reviewing
certain transactions and practices of AIG and its subsidiaries
in connection with industry wide and other inquiries. AIG has
cooperated, and will continue to cooperate, in producing
documents and other information in response to subpoenas and
other requests. On January 29, 2008, AIG reached settlement
agreements with nine states and the District of Columbia. The
settlement agreements call for AIG to pay a total of
$12.5 million to be allocated among the ten jurisdictions
and also require AIG to continue to maintain certain producer
compensation disclosure and ongoing compliance initiatives. AIG
will also continue to cooperate with these states in their
ongoing investigations. AIG has not admitted liability under the
settlement agreements and continues to deny the allegations.
Nevertheless, AIG agreed to settle in order to avoid the expense
and uncertainty of protracted litigation. The settlement
agreements, which remain subject to court approvals, were
reached with the Attorneys General of the States of Florida,
Hawaii, Maryland, Michigan, Oregon, Texas and West Virginia, the
Commonwealths of Massachusetts and Pennsylvania, and the
District of Columbia, the Florida Department of Financial
Services, and the Florida Office of Insurance Regulation. The
agreement with the Texas Attorney General also settles
allegations of anticompetitive conduct relating to AIG s
relationship with Allied World Assurance Company and includes an
additional settlement payment of $500,000 related thereto.

Wells Notices.  AIG understands that some of its employees
have received Wells notices in connection with previously
disclosed SEC investigations of certain of AIG s
transactions or accounting practices. Under SEC procedures, a
Wells notice is an indication that the SEC staff has made a
preliminary decision to recommend enforcement action that
provides recipients with an opportunity to respond to the SEC
staff before a formal recommendation is finalized. It is
possible that additional current and former employees could
receive similar notices in the future as the regulatory
investigations proceed.

Effect on AIG

In the opinion of AIG management, AIG s ultimate liability
for the unresolved litigation and investigation matters referred
to above is not likely to have a material adverse effect on
AIG s consolidated financial condition, although it is
possible that the effect would be material to AIG s
consolidated results of operations for an individual reporting
period.

Item 4.   
 Submission of Matters to a Vote of Security Holders 

There were no matters submitted to a vote of security holders
during the fourth quarter of 2007.

AIG 2007
Form  10-K          
25 

Table of Contents   

American International Group, Inc. and Subsidiaries

Part II 

Item 5.  
 Market for the Registrant s Common Equity, Related
Stockholder Matters and Issuer Purchases of Equity
Securities  

AIG s common stock is listed on the New York Stock
Exchange, as well as on the stock exchanges in Paris and Tokyo.

The following table presents the high
and low closing sales prices and the dividends paid per share of
AIG s common stock on the New York Stock Exchange Composite
Tape, for each quarter of 2007 and 2006:  

The approximate number of holders of common stock as of
January 31, 2008, based upon the number of record holders,
was 56,500.

Subject to the dividend preference of any of AIG s serial
preferred stock that may be outstanding, the holders of shares
of common stock are entitled to receive such dividends as may be
declared by AIG s Board of Directors from funds legally
available therefor.

In February 2007, AIG s Board of Directors adopted a new
dividend policy, which took effect with the dividend that was
declared in the second quarter of 2007. Under ordinary
circumstances, AIG s plan is to increase its common stock
dividend by approximately 20 percent annually. The payment
of any dividend, however, is at the discretion of AIG s
Board of Directors, and the future payment of dividends will
depend on various factors, including the performance of
AIG s businesses, AIG s consolidated financial
condition, results of operations and liquidity and the existence
of investment opportunities.

For a discussion of certain restrictions on the payment of
dividends to AIG by some of its insurance subsidiaries, see
Note 14 to Consolidated Financial Statements.

The following table summarizes
AIG s stock repurchases for the three-month period ended
December 31, 2007:  

(a)   
     
     Reflects date of delivery. Does not include
    49,583 shares delivered or attested to in satisfaction of
    the exercise price by holders of AIG employee stock options
    exercised during the three months ended December 31, 2007
    or 23,300 shares purchased by ILFC to satisfy obligations
    under employee benefit plans.  

(b)   
     
     In February 2007, AIG s Board of Directors increased
    AIG s share repurchase program by authorizing the
    repurchase of shares with an aggregate purchase price of
    $8 billion. In November 2007, AIG s Board of Directors
    authorized the repurchase of an additional $8 billion in
    common stock. A balance of $10.9 billion remained for
    purchases under the program as of December 31, 2007,
    although $912 million of that amount has been advanced by
    AIG to purchase shares under the program and an additional
    $1 billion was required to be advanced in January 2008 to
    meet commitments that existed at December 31, 2007.  

AIG does not expect to purchase additional shares under its
share repurchase program for the foreseeable future, other than
to meet commitments that existed at December 31, 2007.

AIG s table of equity compensation plans previously
approved by security holders and equity compensation plans not
previously approved by security holders will be included in
AIG s Definitive Proxy Statement in connection with its
2008 Annual Meeting of Shareholders, which will be filed with
the SEC within 120 days of AIG s fiscal year end.

26         AIG
2007 Form  10-K 

Table of Contents   

American International Group, Inc. and Subsidiaries

Performance Graph  

The following Performance Graph compares the cumulative total
shareholder return on AIG common stock for a five-year period
(December 31, 2002 to December 31, 2007) with the
cumulative total return of the Standard & Poor s
500 stock index (which includes AIG) and a peer group of
companies consisting of nine insurance companies to which AIG
compares its business and operations: ACE Limited, Aflac
Incorporated, The Chubb Corporation, The Hartford Financial
Services Group, Inc., Lincoln National Corporation, MetLife,
Inc., Prudential Financial, Inc., The Travelers Companies, Inc.
(formerly The St. Paul Travelers Companies, Inc.) and XL Capital
Ltd.

FIVE-YEAR CUMULATIVE TOTAL SHAREHOLDER
RETURNS  

Value of $100 Invested on
December 31, 2002  

AIG 2007
Form  10-K          
27 

Table of Contents   

American International Group, Inc. and Subsidiaries

Item 6.   
 Selected Financial Data 

American International Group, Inc. and
Subsidiaries  
 Selected Consolidated Financial Data  

The Selected Consolidated Financial
Data should be read in conjunction with Management s
Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of
Operations and the consolidated financial statements and
accompanying notes included elsewhere herein.  

(a)  
     
     Certain reclassifications have been made to prior period
    amounts to conform to the current period presentation.  

(b)  
     
     In 2007, 2006, 2005, 2004 and 2003, includes
    other-than-temporary impairment charges of $4.7 billion,
    $944 million, $598 million, $684 million and
    $1.5 billion, respectively. Also includes gains (losses)
    from hedging activities that did not qualify for hedge
    accounting treatment under FAS 133, including the related
    foreign exchange gains and losses. In 2007, 2006, 2005, 2004 and
    2003, respectively, the effect was $(1.44) billion,
    $(1.87) billion, $2.02 billion, $385 million and
    $(1.50) billion in revenues and $(1.44) billion,
    $(1.87) billion, $2.02 billion, $671 million and
    $(1.22) billion in operating income. These amounts result
    primarily from interest rate and foreign currency derivatives
    that are effective economic hedges of investments and
    borrowings. These gains (losses) in 2007 include a
    $380 million out of period charge to reverse net gains
    recognized on transfers of available for sale securities among
    legal entities consolidated within AIGFP. The gains (losses) in
    2006 include an out of period charge of $223 million
    related to the remediation of the material weakness in internal
    control over the accounting for certain derivative transactions
    under FAS 133. In the first quarter of 2007, AIG began applying
    hedge accounting for certain transactions, primarily in its
    Capital Markets operations. In the second quarter of 2007, AGF
    and ILFC began applying hedge accounting to most of their
    derivatives hedging interest rate and foreign exchange risks
    associated with their floating rate and foreign currency
    denominated borrowings.  

(c)  
     
     In 2006, includes the effect of out of period adjustments
    related to the accounting for UCITS. The effect was an increase
    of $490 million in both revenues and operating income for
    General Insurance and an increase of $240 million and
    $169 million in revenues and operating income,
    respectively, for Life Insurance & Retirement
    Services.  

(d)  
     
     In 2007, includes an unrealized market valuation loss of
    $11.5 billion on AIGFP s super senior credit default
    swap portfolio and an other-than-temporary impairment charge of
    $643 million on AIGFP s available for sale investment
    securities reported in other income.  

(e)  
     
     Includes current year catastrophe-related losses of
    $276 million in 2007, $3.28 billion in 2005 and
    $1.16 billion in 2004. There were no significant
    catastrophe-related losses in 2006 and 2003.  

(f)  
     
     Reduced by fourth quarter charges of $1.8 billion and
    $850 million in 2005 and 2004, respectively, related to the
    annual review of General Insurance loss and loss adjustment
    reserves. In 2006, 2005 and 2004, changes in estimates for
    asbestos and environmental reserves were $198 million,
    $873 million and $850 million, respectively.  

(g)  
     
     Includes that portion of long-term debt maturing in less than
    one year. See also Note 11 to Consolidated Financial
    Statements.  

28         AIG
2007 Form  10-K 

Table of Contents   

American International Group, Inc. and Subsidiaries

Management s Discussion and Analysis of 

Financial Condition and Results of Operations 

Item 7.   
 Management s Discussion and Analysis of 

Financial Condition and Results of Operations 

Throughout this Management s Discussion and Analysis of
Financial Condition and Results of Operations, AIG presents its
operations in the way it believes will be most meaningful.
Statutory underwriting profit (loss) and combined ratios are
presented in accordance with accounting principles prescribed by
insurance regulatory authorities because these are standard
measures of performance used in the insurance industry and thus
allow more meaningful comparisons with AIG s insurance
competitors. AIG has also incorporated into this discussion a
number of cross-references to additional information included
throughout this Annual Report on
Form  10-K  to
assist readers seeking additional information related to a
particular subject.

Index  
       
     Page   

Cautionary Statement Regarding 
    Projections and Other Information About Future Events 

29  

Overview of Operations and Business Results 

30  

Outlook

30  

Consolidated Results

34  

Segment Results

36  

Capital Resources

37  

Liquidity

38  

Critical Accounting Estimates 

38  

Operating Review 

40  

General Insurance Operations

40  

General Insurance Results

41  

Reserve for Losses and Loss Expenses

47  

Life Insurance & Retirement Services Operations

62  

Life Insurance & Retirement Services Results

63  

Deferred Policy Acquisition Costs and Sales Inducement Assets

78  

Financial Services Operations

81  

Asset Management Operations

86  

Other Operations

88  

Capital Resources and Liquidity 

88  

Borrowings

89  

Shareholders  Equity

97  

Liquidity

99  

Invested Assets 

101  

Investment Strategy

102  

Valuation of Invested Assets

108  

Portfolio Review

109  

Other-than-temporary impairments

109  

Unrealized gains and losses

111  

Risk Management 

112  

Overview

112  

Corporate Risk Management

112  

Credit Risk Management

113  

Market Risk Management

115  

Operational Risk Management

116  

Insurance Risk Management

116  

Segment Risk Management

118  

Insurance Operations

118  

Financial Services

121  

Asset Management

126  

Economic Capital 

126  

Recent Accounting Standards 

127  

Cautionary Statement Regarding
Projections and Other Information About Future Events  

This Annual Report on
Form  10-K  and
other publicly available documents may include, and AIG s
officers and representatives may from time to time make,
projections concerning financial information and statements
concerning future economic performance and events, plans and
objectives relating to management, operations, products and
services, and assumptions underlying these projections and
statements. These projections and statements are not historical
facts but instead represent only AIG s belief regarding
future events, many of which, by their nature, are inherently
uncertain and outside AIG s control. These projections and
statements may address, among other things, the status and
potential future outcome of the current regulatory and civil
proceedings against AIG and their potential effect on AIG s
businesses, financial condition, results of operations, cash
flows and liquidity, AIG s exposures to subprime mortgages,
monoline insurers and the residential real estate market and
AIG s strategy for growth, product development, market
position, financial results and reserves. It is possible that
AIG s actual results and financial condition may differ,
possibly materially, from the anticipated results and financial
condition indicated in these projections and statements. Factors
that could cause AIG s actual results to differ, possibly
materially, from those in the specific projections and
statements are discussed throughout this Management s
Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of
Operations and in Item 1A. Risk Factors of this Annual
Report on
Form  10-K.  AIG is
not under any obligation (and expressly disclaims any such
obligations) to update or alter any projection or other
statement, whether written or oral, that may be made from time
to time, whether as a result of new information, future events
or otherwise.

AIG 2007
Form  10-K          
29 

Table of Contents   

American International Group, Inc. and Subsidiaries

Management s Discussion and Analysis of 

Financial Condition and Results of
Operations    Continued  

Overview of Operations and Business
Results   

AIG identifies its reportable segments by product or service
line, consistent with its management structure. AIG s major
product and service groupings are General Insurance, Life
Insurance & Retirement Services, Financial Services and
Asset Management. Through these operating segments, AIG provides
insurance, financial and investment products and services to
both businesses and individuals in more than 130 countries and
jurisdictions. This geographic, product and service
diversification is one of AIG s major strengths and sets it
apart from its competitors. AIG s Other category consists
of items not allocated to AIG s operating segments.

AIG s subsidiaries serve commercial, institutional and
individual customers through an extensive property-casualty and
life insurance and retirement services network. In the United
States, AIG companies are the largest underwriters of commercial
and industrial insurance and are among the largest life
insurance and retirement services operations as well. AIG s
Financial Services businesses include commercial aircraft and
equipment leasing, capital markets operations and consumer
finance, both in the United States and abroad. AIG also provides
asset management services to institutions and individuals. As
part of its Spread-Based Investment activities, and to finance
its operations, AIG issues various debt instruments in the
public and private markets.

AIG s operating performance reflects implementation of
various long-term strategies and defined goals in its various
operating segments. A primary goal of AIG in managing its
General Insurance operations is to achieve an underwriting
profit. To achieve this goal, AIG must be disciplined in its
risk selection, and premiums must be adequate and terms and
conditions appropriate to cover the risks accepted and expenses
incurred.

AIG has commenced a realignment to simplify its Foreign General
Insurance operations, many of which were historically conducted
through branches of U.S. companies. On October 8, 2007, AIU
Insurance Company announced the conversion of its existing China
branches into AIG General Insurance Company China Limited, the
first non-Chinese owned general insurance company established in
China. This subsidiary assumed the existing business portfolio,
assets and liabilities of the China branches. On
October 15, 2007, AIG General Insurance (Taiwan) Co., Ltd.
(AIGGI Taiwan) announced the completion of its merger with AIU
Insurance Company Taiwan Branch. On December 1, 2007,
Landmark Insurance Company Limited, a U.K. subsidiary, assumed
all of the insurance liabilities of the U.K. branch of New
Hampshire Insurance Company and changed its name to AIG U.K.
Ltd. On January 1, 2008, AIU Insurance Company ceased
participating in the Domestic General Insurance pooling
arrangement. These ongoing simplification efforts are expected
to result in better utilization of capital and a lower effective
tax rate.

A central focus of AIG operations in recent years has been the
development and expansion of distribution channels. In 2007, AIG
continued to expand its distribution channels, which now include
banks, credit card companies, television-media home shopping,
affinity groups, direct response, worksite marketing and
 e-commerce. 

AIG patiently builds relationships in markets around the world
where it sees long-term growth opportunities. For example, the
fact that AIG has the only wholly owned foreign life insurance
operations in China, operating in 19 cities, is the result of
relationships developed over nearly 30 years. AIG s
more recent extensions of operations into India, Vietnam, Russia
and other emerging markets reflect the same growth strategy.
Moreover, AIG believes in investing in the economies and
infrastructures of these countries and growing with them. When
AIG companies enter a new jurisdiction, they typically offer
basic protection and savings products. As the economies evolve,
AIG s products evolve with them, to more sophisticated and
investment-oriented models.

Growth for AIG may be generated internally as well as through
acquisitions which both fulfill strategic goals and offer
adequate return on capital. In October 2007, AIG expanded its
Foreign General Insurance operations in Germany through the
acquisition of W rttembergische und Badische
Versicherungs-AG (W BA). In January 2007, American General
Finance, Inc. (AGF) expanded its operations into the U.K.
through the acquisition of Ocean Finance and Mortgages Limited,
a finance broker for home owner loans in the U.K.

Outlook

General Trends 

In mid-2007, the U.S. residential mortgage market began to
experience serious disruption due to credit quality
deterioration in a significant portion of loans originated,
particularly to non-prime and subprime borrowers; evolving
changes in the regulatory environment; a slower residential
housing market; increased cost of borrowings for mortgage
participants; and illiquid credit markets.

AIG participates in the U.S. residential mortgage market in
several ways: AGF originates principally first-lien mortgage
loans and to a lesser extent second-lien mortgage loans to
buyers and owners of residential housing; United Guaranty
Corporation (UGC) provides first loss mortgage guaranty
insurance for high loan-to-value
 first-  and second-lien
residential mortgages; AIG insurance and financial services
subsidiaries invest in mortgage-backed securities and CDOs, in
which the underlying collateral is composed in whole or in part
of residential mortgage loans; and AIGFP provides credit
protection through credit default swaps on certain super senior
tranches of collateralized debt obligations (CDOs), a
significant majority of which have AAA underlying or subordinate
layers.

Disruption in the U.S. residential mortgage market may also
increase claim activity in the financial institution segment of
AIG s D&O and professional liability classes of
business. However, based on its review of information currently
available, AIG believes overall loss activity for the broader
D&O and professional liability classes is likely to remain
within or near the levels observed during the last several
years, which include losses related to stock options backdating
as well as to the U.S. residential mortgage market.

The operating results of AIG s consumer finance and
mortgage guaranty operations in the United States have been and
are likely

30         AIG
2007 Form  10-K 

Table of Contents   

American International Group, Inc. and Subsidiaries

to continue to be adversely affected by the factors referred to
above. The downward cycle in the U.S. housing market is not
expected to improve until residential inventories return to a
more normal level and the mortgage credit market stabilizes. AIG
expects that this downward cycle will continue to adversely
affect UGC s operating results for the foreseeable future
and will result in a significant operating loss for UGC in 2008.
AIG also incurred substantial unrealized market valuation losses
in 2007, particularly in the fourth quarter, on AIGFP s
super senior credit default swap portfolio and substantial
other-than-temporary impairment charges on AIG s Insurance
and Financial Services available for sale securities. The
results from AIG s operations with exposure to the U.S.
residential mortgage market will be highly dependent on future
market conditions. Continuing market deterioration will cause
AIG to report additional unrealized market valuation losses and
impairment charges.

The ongoing effect of the downward cycle in the
U.S. housing market on AIG s other operations,
investment portfolio and overall consolidated financial
condition could be material if the market disruption continues
and expands beyond the residential mortgage markets, although
AIG seeks to mitigate the risks to its business by disciplined
underwriting and active risk management.

Globally, heightened regulatory scrutiny of financial services
companies in many jurisdictions has the potential to affect
future financial results through higher compliance costs. This
is particularly true in the United States, where Federal and
state authorities have commenced various investigations of the
financial services industry, and in Japan and Southeast Asia,
where financial institutions have received remediation orders
affecting consumer and policyholder rights.

In certain quarters, AIG s returns from partnerships and
other alternative investments were particularly strong, driven
by favorable equity market performance and credit conditions.
These returns may vary from period to period and AIG believes
that the particularly strong performance in certain prior
periods is not indicative of the returns to be expected from
this asset class in future periods.

AIG has recorded out of period adjustments in the last two years
due to the remediation of control deficiencies. As AIG continues
its remediation activities, AIG expects to continue to incur
expenses related to these activities and to record additional
out of period adjustments, although all known errors have been
corrected.

General Insurance 

The commercial property and casualty insurance industry has
historically experienced cycles of price erosion followed by
rate strengthening as a result of catastrophes or other
significant losses that affect the overall capacity of the
industry to provide coverage. As premium rates decline, AIG will
generally experience higher current accident year loss ratios,
as the written premiums are earned. Despite industry price
erosion in commercial lines, AIG expects to continue to identify
profitable opportunities and build attractive new general
insurance businesses as a result of AIG s broad product
line and extensive distribution networks in the United States
and abroad.

Workers compensation remains under considerable pricing
pressure, as statutory rates continue to decline. Rates for
aviation, excess casualty, D&O and certain other lines of
insurance also continue to decline due to competitive pressures.
Rates for commercial property lines are also declining following
another year of relatively low catastrophe losses. Further price
erosion is expected in 2008 for the commercial lines; AIG seeks
to mitigate the decline by constantly seeking out profitable
opportunities across its diverse product lines and distribution
networks while maintaining a commitment to underwriting
discipline. There can be no assurance that price erosion will
not become more widespread or that AIG s profitability will
not deteriorate from current levels in major commercial lines.

In Foreign General Insurance, opportunities for growth exist in
the consumer lines due to increased demand in emerging markets
and the trend toward privatization of health insurance. In
commercial lines, the late 2007 acquisition of W Ba
enhances AIG s insurance offerings to small and medium
sized companies in Europe.

Through operations in Bahrain designed to comply with Islamic
law, AIG is tapping into a growing market. Islamic insurance,
called Takaful, is an alternative to conventional insurance
based on the concept of mutual assistance through pooling of
resources.

The Personal Lines automobile marketplace remains challenging
with rates declining steadily, increased spending on commissions
and advertising and favorable liability frequency trends
slowing, while severity in both liability and physical damage
are expected to increase. In addition to the deteriorating
underwriting cycle, a generally weakening economy leads to
slower growth in automobile insurance exposure units and values.
The Personal Lines business is focused on consolidation and
improving operational efficiencies to reduce costs, as well as
enhancing rating algorithms and creating a new aigdirect.com
brand, as a result of the 2007 combination of AIG Direct and
21st Century Insurance Group (21st Century) operations, to
support growth. The high net worth market continues to provide
opportunities for growth as a result of AIG s innovative
products and services specifically designed for that market.

Losses caused by catastrophes can fluctuate widely from year to
year, making comparisons of results more difficult. With respect
to catastrophe losses, AIG believes that it has taken
appropriate steps, such as careful exposure selection and
adequate reinsurance coverage, to reduce the effect of possible
future losses. The occurrence of one or more catastrophic events
of higher than anticipated frequency or severity, such as a
terrorist attack, earthquake or hurricane, that causes insured
losses, however, could have a material adverse effect on
AIG s results of operations, liquidity or financial
condition.

Life Insurance & Retirement Services 

Disruption in the U.S. residential mortgage and credit markets
had a significant adverse effect on Life Insurance &
Retirement Services operating results in 2007 and will continue
to be a key factor in 2008 and beyond, especially in the
U.S.-based operations. The volatility in operating results will
be further magnified by the continuing market shift to variable
products with living benefits

AIG 2007
Form  10-K          
31 

Table of Contents   

American International Group, Inc. and Subsidiaries

Management s Discussion and Analysis of 

Financial Condition and Results of
Operations    Continued  

and the adoption of FAS No. 157,  Fair Value
Measurements  (FAS 157). Life Insurance &
Retirement Services elected the fair value option under FAS
No. 159,  The Fair Value Option for Financial Assets
and Financial Liabilities  (FAS 159), for two products
beginning January 1, 2008 - a closed block of single
premium variable life business in Japan and an investment-linked
life insurance product sold principally in Asia. After adoption
on January 1, 2008, subsequent changes in fair value for
these products will be reported in operating income. The
adoption of FAS 159 for these products is expected to
result in a decrease to opening 2008 retained earnings of
approximately $600 million. For a description of these
accounting standards, see Note 1 to Consolidated Financial
Statements.

Life Insurance & Retirement Services uses
various derivative instruments to hedge cash flows related to
certain foreign currencies and fixed income related instruments.
Although these derivatives are purchased to mitigate the
economic effect of movements in foreign exchange rates and
interest rates, reported earnings may be volatile due to certain
hedges not qualifying for hedge accounting under FAS 133.
The change in fair value of derivative instruments is reported
in net realized capital gains (losses). Life Insurance &
Retirement Services engages in hedging programs that use
derivatives and other instruments to hedge the guaranteed living
benefits associated with variable products. Nevertheless,
short-term market movements will vary from long-term
expectations underlying the product pricing assumptions and may
cause volatility in reported earnings. The inclusion of risk
margins in the valuation of embedded derivatives under
FAS 157 will increase earnings volatility as differences
emerge between the change in fair value of embedded derivatives
and the change in fair value of hedging instruments. As variable
products with guaranteed living benefits continue to grow, the
reported earnings volatility associated with these programs will
likely increase.

Life Insurance & Retirement Services may
continue to experience volatility in net realized capital gains
(losses) due to other-than-temporary impairment writedowns of
the fair value of investments, primarily related to the
significant disruption in the residential mortgage and credit
markets and foreign currency related losses.

In Japan, given AIG s multi-channel,
multi-product strategy, AIG expects its Life Insurance &
Retirement Services operations to exceed industry growth in the
long term, although downward pressure on earnings growth rates
is anticipated due to the difficult market conditions. Market
conditions remain challenging as a result of increased
competition due to new market entrants, the increasing financial
strength of the domestic companies as the economy has recovered,
the effect of additional regulatory oversight, changes to the
tax deductibility of insurance premiums and the regulatory
claims review which has negatively affected consumer perceptions
of the industry. While the market shift to variable products
with living benefits will constrain fixed annuity sales, AIG is
positioned to grow annuity sales overall with its annuity
products designed to meet the needs of consumers in a range of
market conditions. In addition, AIG expects that the planned
integration of AIG Star Life and AIG Edison Life, which is
anticipated to be completed in 2009, will provide enhanced
distribution opportunities and operational efficiencies pending
regulatory approval.

Full deregulation of banks in Japan with
respect to insurance product sales became effective in December
2007, and AIG expects that it will be able to leverage its
existing bank relationships and innovative product expertise to
expand sales of both life and accident and health products in
2008. Deregulation of Japan Post is also expected to provide
additional growth opportunities during 2008 and beyond.

Although the Japanese Yen strengthened in the
fourth quarter of 2007, historical volatility of Japanese
Yen-dollar exchange rates has resulted in higher than normal
surrenders, and if that trend returns, an acceleration of the
amortization of deferred policy acquisition costs could occur.

Outside of Japan, ALICO continues to execute
its strategy of diversifying distribution channels and
developing new products. In particular, ALICO s Central and
Eastern European operations performed well and demographic and
economic conditions in these countries provide excellent
opportunities for continued growth.

AIG s operations in China continue to
expand, but AIG expects competition in China to remain strong.
AIG s success in China will depend on its ability to
execute its growth strategy. Key growth strategies in 2008
include expansion of sales and service centers, increased bank
distribution and entering into strategic alliances with key
partners. In Southeast Asia, AIG s operations are focused
on growing market share and profits in Singapore, Malaysia,
Thailand and Hong Kong with products focused on the life
savings-oriented consumer along with high net worth consumers
through the newly formed Wealth Management Group.

Domestically, AIG plans to continue expansion of its Life
Insurance & Retirement Services businesses through direct
marketing and independent agent distribution channels. The aging
population in the United States provides a growth opportunity
for a variety of products, including longevity, guaranteed
income and supplemental accident and health products. Certain
other demographic groups that have traditionally been
underserved provide additional growth opportunities. The
Domestic Life Insurance operations showed positive momentum in
the second half of 2007 resulting from new products and expanded
distribution. Domestic group life/health operations continue to
face competitors with greater scale in group benefits.

The fixed annuities business experienced a difficult year as
surrenders increased in 2007 due to both an increasing number of
policies coming out of their surrender charge period and
increased competition from bank deposit products. While
surrenders are expected to continue to be higher than normal,
the current interest rate environment should provide
opportunities for improvements in net flows during 2008. AIG
believes that improvement in net flows in the individual
variable annuity market will be driven by variable annuity
products with living benefits while the group retirement
products will continue to experience a shift from group
annuities to lower margin mutual fund products.

Since the beginning of 2000, the yield available on Taiwanese
 10-year  government
bonds dropped from approximately 6 percent to less than
3 percent at December 31, 2007. Yields on most

32         AIG
2007 Form  10-K 

Table of Contents   

American International Group, Inc. and Subsidiaries

other invested assets have correspondingly dropped over the same
period. New regulatory capital requirements being developed in
Taiwan, combined with growth opportunities in bancassurance and
variable annuities with living benefits, may potentially create
a need for capital contributions in 2008 and beyond to support
local solvency requirements.

Financial Services 

Within Financial Services, demand for International Lease
Finance Corporation (ILFC s) modern, fuel efficient
aircraft remains strong, and ILFC plans to increase its fleet by
purchasing 73 aircraft in 2008. However, ILFC s
margins may be adversely affected by increases in interest
rates. AIG Financial Products Corp. and AIG Trading Group Inc.
and their respective subsidiaries (collectively, AIGFP) expect
opportunities for growth across their product segments, but
AIGFP is a transaction-oriented business, and its operating
results will depend to a significant extent on actual
transaction flow, which is affected by market conditions and
other variables outside its control. AIG continues to explore
opportunities to expand its Consumer Finance operations into new
domestic and foreign markets.

The ongoing disruption in the U.S. residential mortgage and
credit markets and the recent downgrades of residential
mortgage-backed securities and CDO securities by rating agencies
continue to adversely affect the fair value of the super senior
credit default swap portfolio written by AIGFP. AIG expects that
continuing limitations on the availability of market observable
data will affect AIG s determinations of the fair value of
these derivatives, including by preventing AIG, for the
foreseeable future, from recognizing the beneficial effect of
the differential between credit spreads used to price a credit
default swap and spreads implied from prices of the CDO bonds
referenced by such swap. The fair value of these derivatives is
expected to continue to fluctuate, perhaps materially, in
response to changing market conditions, and AIG s estimates
of the value of AIGFP s super senior credit derivative
portfolio at future dates could therefore be materially
different from current estimates. AIG continues to believe that
the unrealized market valuation losses recorded on the AIGFP
super senior credit default swap portfolio are not indicative of
the losses AIGFP may realize over time. Under the terms of most
of these credit derivatives, losses to AIG would generally
result from the credit impairment of the referenced CDO bonds
that AIG would acquire in satisfying its swap obligations. Based
upon its most current analyses, AIG believes that any credit
impairment losses realized over time by AIGFP will not be
material to AIG s consolidated financial condition,
although it is possible that such realized losses could be
material to AIG s consolidated results of operations for an
individual reporting period. Except to the extent of any such
credit impairment losses, AIG expects the unrealized market
valuation losses to reverse over the remaining life of the super
senior credit default swap portfolio.

Approximately $379 billion of the $527 billion in
notional exposure on AIGFP s super senior credit default
swap portfolio as of December 31, 2007 were written to
facilitate regulatory capital relief for financial institutions
primarily in Europe. AIG expects that the majority of these
transactions will be terminated within the next 12 to 18 months
by AIGFP s counterparties as they implement models
compliant with the new Basel II Accord. As of February 26, 2008,
$54 billion in notional exposures have either been
terminated or are in the process of being terminated. AIGFP was
not required to make any payments as part of these terminations
and in certain cases was paid a fee upon termination. In light
of this experience to date and after other comprehensive
analyses, AIG did not recognize an unrealized market valuation
adjustment for this regulatory capital relief portfolio for the
year ended December 31, 2007. AIG will continue to assess
the valuation of this portfolio and monitor developments in the
marketplace. There can be no assurance that AIG will not
recognize unrealized market valuation losses from this portfolio
in future periods. These transactions contributed approximately
$210 million to AIGFP s revenues in 2007. If AIGFP is
not successful in replacing the revenues generated by these
transactions, AIGFP s operating results could be materially
adversely affected. For additional information on the AIGFP
super senior credit default swap portfolio, see Risk
Management   Segment Risk Management  
Financial Services   Capital Markets Derivative
Transactions and Note 8 to Consolidated Financial
Statements.

In March 2007, the U.S. Treasury Department published proposed
regulations that, had they been adopted in 2007, would have had
the effect of limiting the ability of AIG to claim foreign tax
credits with respect to certain transactions entered into by
AIGFP. AIGFP is no longer a participant in those transactions
and therefore, the proposed regulations, if adopted in their
current form in 2008 or subsequent years, would not be expected
to have any material effect on AIG s ability to claim
foreign tax credits.

Effective January 1, 2008, AIGFP elected to apply the fair
value option to all eligible assets and liabilities, other than
equity method investments. The adoption of FAS 159 with
respect to elections made by AIGFP is currently being evaluated
for the effect of recently issued draft guidance by the FASB,
anticipated to be issued in final form in early 2008, and its
potential effect on AIG s consolidated financial statements.

Asset Management 

In the Spread-Based Investment business, the Guaranteed
Investment Contract (GIC) portfolio continues to run off
and was replaced by the Matched Investment Program (MIP). The
results from domestic GICs and the MIP have been adversely
affected by the ongoing disruption in the credit markets, the
weakening U.S. dollar and declining interest rates. The MIP
is exposed to credit and market risk in the form of investments
in, among other asset classes, U.S. residential mortgage-backed
securities, asset-backed securities, commercial mortgage-backed
securities and single name corporate credit default swaps
entered into by the MIP. In addition, earnings volatility for
the MIP may arise from investments in bank loans that are held
for future collateralized loan obligations to be managed by AIG
Investments. The value of the investments may fluctuate
materially from period to period due to market movements, which
may result in realized and unrealized net losses. Although it is
difficult to estimate future movements in these markets,
effective hedges exist to mitigate the effect of

AIG 2007
Form  10-K          
33 

Table of Contents   

American International Group, Inc. and Subsidiaries

Management s Discussion and Analysis of 

Financial Condition and Results of
Operations    Continued  

interest rate and foreign currency exchange rate disruptions.
Reported results may be volatile due to certain hedges not
qualifying for hedge accounting treatment.

In the Institutional Asset Management business, carried
interest, computed in accordance with each fund s governing
agreement, is based on the investment s performance over
the life of each fund. Unrealized carried interest is recognized
based on each fund s performance as of the balance sheet
date. Future fund performance may negatively affect previously
recognized carried interest.

For a description of important factors that may affect the
operations and initiatives described above, see Item 1A.
Risk Factors.

Consolidated Results

The following table summarizes
AIG s consolidated revenues, income before income taxes,
minority interest and cumulative effect of accounting changes
and net income for the years ended December 31, 2007, 2006
and 2005:  

Effect of Credit Market Events in the Fourth Quarter of
2007 

AIG reported a net loss of $8.4 billion before tax
($5.2 billion after tax) in the fourth quarter of 2007 as a
result of severe credit market disruption. Contributing to this
loss was an $11.5 billion pre-tax charge for the unrealized
market valuation loss on AIGFP s super senior credit
default swap portfolio. Net realized capital losses totaled
$2.6 billion before tax in the fourth quarter of 2007,
arising primarily from other-than-temporary impairment charges
in AIG s investment portfolio, with an additional
$643 million impairment charge related to Financial
Services securities available for sale reported in other income.
Also contributing to the operating loss for the fourth quarter
was an operating loss of $348 million before tax from
Mortgage Guaranty from continued deterioration in the U.S.
residential housing market.

2007 and 2006 Comparison 

AIG s consolidated revenues decreased in 2007 compared to
2006 as growth in Premiums and other considerations and Net
investment income in the General Insurance and Life
Insurance & Retirement Services segments were more than
offset by higher Net realized capital losses compared to 2006
and an unrealized market valuation loss of $11.5 billion on
AIGFP s super senior credit default swap portfolio recorded
in other income. Net realized capital losses of
$3.6 billion in 2007 included other-than-temporary
impairment charges of the fair value of investments of
$4.1 billion, primarily related to the significant
disruption in the residential mortgage and credit markets, and
foreign currency related losses of $500 million. Similarly,
AIG recorded in other income, other-than-temporary impairment
charges of $643 million related to its Financial Services
securities available for sale reported in other income. Total
other-than-temporary impairment charges in 2006 were
$944 million. See Invested Assets  
Other-than-temporary impairments herein.

Income before income taxes, minority interest and cumulative
effect of accounting changes declined in 2007 due to the losses
described above, partially offset by the favorable effects in
2007 of the application of hedge accounting under Statement of
Financial Accounting Standards No. 133,  Accounting
for Derivative Instruments and Hedging Activities  (FAS
133). In 2007, AIGFP applied hedge accounting to certain of its
interest rate swaps and foreign currency forward contracts
hedging its investments and borrowings. As a result, AIGFP
recognized in earnings the change in the fair value of the
hedged items attributable to the hedged risks, substantially
offsetting the gains and losses on the derivatives designated as
hedges. In 2006, AIGFP did not apply hedge accounting to any of
its assets and liabilities.

2006 and 2005 Comparison 

The increase in revenues in 2006 compared to 2005 was primarily
attributable to the growth in Premiums and other considerations
and Net investment income in the General Insurance and Life
Insurance & Retirement Services segments. Revenues in the
Financial Services segment declined as a result of the effect of
hedging activities for AIGFP that did not qualify for hedge
accounting treatment under FAS 133, decreasing revenues by
$1.8 billion in 2006 and increasing revenues by
$2.0 billion in 2005.

Income before income taxes, minority interest and cumulative
effect of accounting changes increased in 2006 compared to 2005,
reflecting higher General Insurance and Life Insurance &
Retirement Services operating income. These increases were
partially offset by lower Financial Services operating income
reflecting the effects of hedging activities that did not
qualify for hedge accounting treatment under FAS 133.
Results in 2005 reflected the negative effect of
$3.3 billion (pre-tax) in catastrophe-related losses
incurred that year. Net income in 2005 also reflected the
charges related to regulatory settlements, as described in
Item 3. Legal Proceedings, and the fourth quarter

34         AIG
2007 Form  10-K 

Table of Contents   

American International Group, Inc. and Subsidiaries

charge resulting from the annual review of General Insurance
loss and loss adjustment reserves.

Remediation 

Throughout 2007 and 2006, as part of its continuing remediation
efforts, AIG recorded out of period adjustments which are
detailed below. In addition, certain revisions were made to the
Consolidated Statement of Cash Flows.

2007 Adjustments  

During 2007, out of period adjustments collectively decreased
pre-tax operating income by $372 million ($399 million
after tax). The adjustments were comprised of a charge of
$380 million ($247 million after tax) to reverse net
gains on transfers of investment securities among legal entities
consolidated within AIGFP and a corresponding increase to
accumulated other comprehensive income (loss); $156 million
of additional income tax expense related to the successful
remediation of the material weakness in internal control over
income tax accounting; $142 million ($92 million after
tax) of additional expense related to insurance reserves and DAC
in connection with improvements in internal control over
financial reporting and consolidation processes;
$42 million ($29 million after tax) of additional
expense, primarily related to other remediation activities; and
$192 million ($125 million after tax) of net realized capital
gains related to foreign exchange.

2006 Adjustments  

During 2006, out of period adjustments collectively increased
pre-tax operating income by $313 million ($65 million
after tax). The adjustments were comprised of $773 million
($428 million after tax) of additional investment income
related to the accounting for certain interests in unit
investment trusts (UCITS); $300 million ($145 million
after tax) of charges primarily related to the remediation of
the material weakness in internal control over the accounting
for certain derivative transactions under FAS 133;
$58 million of additional income tax expense related to the
remediation of the material weakness in internal control over
income tax accounting; $85 million ($55 million after
tax) of interest income related to interest earned on deposit
contracts; $61 million (before and after tax) of expenses
related to the Starr International Company, Inc. (SICO)
Deferred Compensation Profit Participation Plans (SICO Plans);
$59 million ($38 million after tax) of expenses
related to deferred advertising costs; and $125 million
($116 million after tax) of additional expense, primarily
related to other remediation activities.

Results in 2006 were also negatively affected by a one-time
charge relating to the C.V. Starr & Co., Inc. (Starr)
tender offer ($54 million before and after tax) and an
additional allowance for losses in AIG Credit Card Company
(Taiwan) ($88 million before and after tax), both of which
were recorded in first quarter of 2006.

Cash Flows  

As part of its ongoing remediation activities, AIG has made
certain revisions to the Consolidated Statement of Cash Flows,
primarily relating to the effect of reclassifying certain
policyholders  account balances, the elimination of certain
intercompany balances and revisions related to separate account
assets. Accordingly, AIG revised the previous periods presented
to conform to the revised presentation. See Note 24 to
Consolidated Financial Statements for further information.

Income Taxes 

The effective tax rate declined from 30.1 percent in 2006
to 16.3 percent in 2007, primarily due to the unrealized
market valuation losses on AIGFP s super senior credit
default swap portfolio and other-than-temporary impairment
charges. These losses, which are taxed at a U.S. tax rate of 35
percent and are included in the calculation of income tax
expense, reduced AIG s overall effective tax rate. In
addition, other tax benefits, including tax exempt interest and
effects of foreign operations are proportionately larger in 2007
than in 2006 due to the decline in pre-tax income in 2007.
Furthermore, tax deductions taken in 2007 for SICO compensation
plans for which the expense had been recognized in prior years
also reduced the effective tax rate in 2007. AIG has now
completed its claims for tax refunds attributable to adjustments
made for 2004 and prior financial statements. Refund claims for
tax years 1991-1996 were filed with the Internal Revenue Service
in June 2007. Claims for tax years 1997-2004 will be filed
before September 2008.

AIG expects to receive cash tax benefits in 2008 as a result of
the unrealized market valuation losses on AIGFP s super
senior credit default swap portfolio, whether AIG is in a
regular or alternative minimum tax position.

AIG 2007
Form  10-K          
35 

Table of Contents   

American International Group, Inc. and Subsidiaries

Management s Discussion and Analysis of 

Financial Condition and Results of
Operations    Continued  

The following table summarizes the net
effect of
 catastrophe-related 
losses for the years ended December 31, 2007 and 2005.
There were no significant catastrophe-related losses for the
year ended December 31, 2006.  

*   
     
     Includes $312 million in catastrophe-related losses from
    partially owned companies.  

Segment Results

The following table summarizes
AIG s operations by reporting segment for the years ended
December 31, 2007, 2006 and 2005. See also Note 2 to
Consolidated Financial Statements.  

(a)  
     
     Certain reclassifications have been made to prior period
    amounts to conform to the current period presentation.  

(b)  
     
     In 2007, 2006 and 2005, includes other-than-temporary
    impairment charges of $4.7 billion, $944 million and
    $598 million, respectively. Also includes gains (losses)
    from hedging activities that did not qualify for hedge
    accounting treatment under FAS 133, including the related
    foreign exchange gains and losses. In 2007, 2006, and 2005,
    respectively, the effect was $(1.44) billion,
    $(1.87) billion and $2.02 billion in both revenues and
    operating income. These amounts result primarily from interest
    rate and foreign currency derivatives that are effective
    economic hedges of investments and borrowings. These gains
    (losses) in 2007 include a $380 million out of period
    charge to reverse net gains recognized on transfers of available
    for sale securities among legal entities consolidated within
    AIGFP. The gains (losses) in 2006 include an out of period
    charge of $223 million related to the remediation of the
    material weakness in internal control over the accounting for
    certain derivative transactions under FAS 133.  

(c)  
     
     In 2006, includes the effect of out of period adjustments
    related to the accounting for UCITS. In 2006, the effect was an
    increase of $490 million in both revenues and operating
    income for General Insurance and an increase of
    $240 million and $169 million in revenues and
    operating income, respectively, for Life Insurance &
    Retirement Services.  

(d)  
     
     In 2007, 2006 and 2005, includes other-than-temporary
    impairment charges of $2.8 billion, $641 million and
    $425 million, respectively, for Life Insurance &
    Retirement Services.  

(e)  
     
     Includes gains (losses) from hedging activities that did not
    qualify for hedge accounting treatment under FAS 133,
    including the related foreign exchange gains and losses. In
    2007, 2006 and 2005, respectively, the effect was
    $104 million, $(1.97) billion, and $2.19 billion
    in both revenues and operating income. These amounts result
    primarily from interest rate and foreign currency derivatives
    that are effective economic hedges of investments and
    borrowings. The years ended December 31, 2007 and 2006
    include out of period charges of $380 million and
    $223 million, respectively, as discussed in
    footnote (b). In the first quarter of 2007, AIG began
    applying hedge accounting for certain transactions, primarily in
    its Capital Markets operations. In the second quarter of 2007,
    AGF and ILFC began applying hedge accounting to most of
    their derivatives hedging interest rate and foreign exchange
    risks associated with their floating rate and foreign currency
    denominated borrowings.  

(f)  
     
     In 2007, both revenues and operating income (loss) include an
    unrealized market valuation loss of $11.5 billion on
    AIGFP s super senior credit default swap portfolio and an
    other-than-temporary impairment charge of $643 million on
    AIGFP s available for sale investment securities recorded
    in other income.  

36         AIG
2007 Form  10-K 

Table of Contents   

American International Group, Inc. and Subsidiaries

General Insurance 

AIG s General Insurance operations provide property and
casualty products and services throughout the world. Revenues in
the General Insurance segment represent net premiums earned, net
investment income and net realized capital gains (losses). The
increase in General Insurance operating income in 2007 compared
to 2006 was driven by strength in the Domestic Brokerage Group
(DBG), partially offset by operating losses from the Mortgage
Guaranty business and a decrease in Personal Lines operating
income.

Life Insurance & Retirement Services 

AIG s Life Insurance & Retirement Services
operations provide insurance, financial and investment-oriented
products throughout the world. Revenues in the Life
Insurance & Retirement Services operations represent
premiums and other considerations, net investment income and net
realized capital gains (losses). Foreign operations contributed
approximately 76 percent, 68 percent and
59 percent of AIG s Life Insurance &
Retirement Services operating income in 2007, 2006 and 2005,
respectively.

Life Insurance & Retirement Services operating income
declined in 2007 compared to 2006 primarily due to higher net
realized capital losses in 2007. In addition, operating income
in 2007 was negatively affected by charges related to
remediation activity in Asia; an industry wide regulatory claims
review in Japan; the effect of Statement of
Position  05-1, 
 Accounting by Insurance Enterprises for Deferred
Acquisition Costs in Connection with Modifications or Exchanges
of Insurance Contracts 
(SOP  05-1),  which
was adopted in 2007; and investment losses where a FAS 115
trading election was made (trading account).

Financial Services 

AIG s Financial Services subsidiaries engage in diversified
activities including aircraft and equipment leasing, capital
markets, consumer finance and insurance premium finance.
Revenues in the Financial Services segment include interest,
realized and unrealized gains and losses, including the
unrealized market valuation losses on AIGFP s super senior
credit default swap portfolio, lease and finance charges.

Financial Services reported an operating loss in 2007 compared
to operating income in 2006, primarily due to an unrealized
market valuation loss of $11.5 billion on AIGFP s
super senior credit default swap portfolio, an
other-than-temporary impairment charge of $643 million on
AIGFP s investment portfolio of CDOs of asset-backed
securities (ABS) and a decline in operating income for AGF.
AGF s operating income declined in 2007 compared to 2006
due to reduced residential mortgage origination volume, lower
revenues from its mortgage banking activities and increases in
the provision for finance receivable losses. In 2007, AGF s
mortgage banking operations recorded a pre-tax charge of
$178 million, representing the estimated cost of
implementing the Supervisory Agreement entered into with the
Office of Thrift Supervision (OTS), which is discussed in the
Consumer Finance results of operations section.

Operating income for ILFC increased in 2007 compared to 2006,
driven to a large extent by a larger aircraft fleet, higher
lease rates and higher utilization.

In 2007, AIGFP began applying hedge accounting under
FAS 133 to certain of its interest rate swaps and foreign
currency forward contracts that hedge its investments and
borrowings and AGF and ILFC began applying hedge accounting to
most of their derivatives that hedge floating rate and foreign
currency denominated borrowings. Prior to 2007, hedge accounting
was not applied to any of AIG s derivatives and related
assets and liabilities. Accordingly, revenues and operating
income were exposed to volatility resulting from differences in
the timing of revenue recognition between the derivatives and
the hedged assets and liabilities.

Asset Management 

AIG s Asset Management operations include institutional and
retail asset management, broker-dealer services and spread-based
investment businesses. Revenues in the Asset Management segment
represent investment income with respect to spread-based
products and management, advisory and incentive fees.

Asset Management operating income decreased in 2007 compared to
2006, due to realized capital losses on interest rate and
foreign currency hedge positions not qualifying for hedge
accounting and other-than-temporary impairment charges on fixed
income investments due primarily to disruptions in the U.S.
credit markets. These decreases were partially offset by higher
partnership income from the Spread-Based Investment business,
increased gains on real estate investments and a gain on the
sale of a portion of AIG s investment in Blackstone Group,
L.P. in connection with its initial public offering.

Capital Resources

At December 31, 2007, AIG had total consolidated
shareholders  equity of $95.8 billion and total
consolidated borrowings of $176.0 billion. At that date,
$67.9 billion of such borrowings were subsidiary borrowings
not guaranteed by AIG.

In 2007, AIG issued an aggregate of $5.6 billion of junior
subordinated debentures in five series of securities.
Substantially all of the proceeds from these sales, net of
expenses, were used to repurchase shares of AIG s common
stock. A total of 76,361,209 shares were repurchased during
2007.

In February 2007, AIG s Board of Directors increased
AIG s share repurchase program by authorizing the
repurchase of shares with an aggregate purchase price of
$8 billion. In November 2007, AIG s Board of Directors
authorized the repurchase of an additional $8 billion in
common stock. At February 15, 2008, $10.25 billion was
available for repurchase under the aggregate authorization. AIG
did not purchase shares of its common stock under its common
stock repurchase authorization during 2006. AIG does not expect
to purchase additional shares under its share repurchase program
for the foreseeable future, other than pursuant to commitments
that existed at December 31, 2007.

AIG 2007
Form  10-K          
37 

Table of Contents   

American International Group, Inc. and Subsidiaries

Management s Discussion and Analysis of 

Financial Condition and Results of
Operations    Continued  

Liquidity

AIG manages liquidity at both the subsidiary and parent company
levels. At December 31, 2007, AIG s consolidated
invested assets, primarily held by its subsidiaries, included
$65.6 billion in cash and short-term investments.
Consolidated net cash provided from operating activities in 2007
amounted to $35.2 billion. At both the subsidiary and
parent company level, liquidity management activities are
intended to preserve and enhance funding stability, flexibility,
and diversity through a wide range of potential operating
environments and market conditions. AIG s primary sources
of cash flow are dividends and other payments from its regulated
and unregulated subsidiaries, as well as issuances of debt
securities. Primary uses of cash flow are for debt service,
subsidiary funding, shareholder dividend payments and common
stock repurchases. As a result of disruption in the credit
markets during 2007, AIG took steps to enhance the liquidity of
its portfolios, including increasing the liquidity of the
collateral in the securities lending program. Management
believes that AIG s liquid assets, cash provided by
operations and access to the capital markets will enable it to
meet its anticipated cash requirements, including the funding of
increased dividends under AIG s new dividend policy.

Critical Accounting Estimates  

The preparation of financial statements in conformity with
accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of
America requires the application of accounting policies that
often involve a significant degree of judgment. AIG considers
that its accounting policies that are most dependent on the
application of estimates and assumptions, and therefore viewed
as critical accounting estimates, to be those relating to
reserves for losses and loss expenses, future policy benefits
for life and accident and health contracts, recoverability of
DAC, estimated gross profits for investment-oriented products,
fair value measurements of certain financial assets and
liabilities, other-than-temporary impairments, the allowance for
finance receivable losses and flight equipment recoverability.
These accounting estimates require the use of assumptions about
matters, some of which are highly uncertain at the time of
estimation. To the extent actual experience differs from the
assumptions used, AIG s results of operations would be
directly affected.

Throughout this Management s Discussion and Analysis of
Financial Condition and Results of Operations, AIG s
critical accounting estimates are discussed in detail. The major
categories for which assumptions are developed and used to
establish each critical accounting estimate are highlighted
below.

Reserves for Losses and Loss Expenses
(General Insurance):

Loss trend factors:  used to establish expected loss
    ratios for subsequent accident years based on premium rate
    adequacy and the projected loss ratio with respect to prior
    accident years. 

Expected loss ratios for the latest accident year:  in
    this case, accident year 2007 for the year-end 2007 loss reserve
    analysis. For low-frequency, high-severity classes such as
    excess casualty, expected loss ratios generally are utilized for
    at least the three most recent accident years. 

Loss development factors:  used to project the
    reported losses for each accident year to an ultimate amount. 

Reinsurance recoverable on unpaid losses:  the expected
    recoveries from reinsurers on losses that have not yet been
    reported and/or settled. 

Future Policy Benefits for Life and
Accident and Health Contracts (Life Insurance &
Retirement Services):

Interest rates:  which vary by geographical region, year
    of issuance and products. 

Mortality, morbidity and surrender rates:  based upon
    actual experience by geographical region modified to allow for
    variation in policy form, risk classification and distribution
    channel. 

Deferred Policy Acquisition Costs (Life
Insurance & Retirement Services):

Recoverability:  based on current and future expected
    profitability, which is affected by interest rates, foreign
    exchange rates, mortality experience and policy persistency. 

Deferred Policy Acquisition Costs (General
Insurance):

Recoverability:  based upon the current terms and
    profitability of the underlying insurance contracts. 

Estimated Gross Profits (Life
Insurance & Retirement Services):

Estimated gross profits:  to be realized over the
    estimated duration of the contracts (investment-oriented
    products) affect the carrying value of DAC, unearned revenue
    liability and associated amortization patterns under
    FAS 97,  Accounting and Reporting by Insurance
    Enterprises for Certain Long-Duration Contracts and for Realized
    Gains and Losses from the Sale of Investments 
    (FAS 97); and Sales Inducement Assets under American
    Institute of Certified Public Accountants (AICPA) Statement of
    Position (SOP) 03-1,  Accounting and Reporting by
    Insurance Enterprises for Certain Nontraditional Long- Duration
    Contracts and for Separate Accounts 
    (SOP  03-1). 
    Estimated gross profits include investment income and gains and
    losses on investments less required interest, actual mortality
    and other expenses. 

Fair Value Measurements of Financial
Instruments:

AIG measures financial instruments in its trading and available
for sale securities portfolios, together with securities sold
but not yet purchased, certain hybrid financial instruments, and
derivative assets and liabilities at fair value. The fair value
of a financial instrument is the amount that would be received
to sell an asset or paid to transfer a liability in an orderly
transaction between market participants at the measurement date.

The degree of judgment used in measuring the fair value of
financial instruments generally correlates with the level of
pricing observability. Financial instruments with quoted prices
in active markets generally have more pricing observability and
less judgment is used in measuring fair value. Conversely,
financial instruments traded in other than active markets or
that do not have quoted prices have less observability and are
measured at fair value using valuation models or other pricing
techniques that

38         AIG
2007 Form  10-K 

Table of Contents   

American International Group, Inc. and Subsidiaries

require more judgment. Pricing observability is affected by a
number of factors, including the type of financial instrument,
whether the financial instrument is new to the market and not
yet established, the characteristics specific to the transaction
and general market conditions.

AIG maximizes the use of observable inputs and minimizes the use
of unobservable inputs when measuring fair value. AIG obtains
market price data to value financial instruments whenever such
information is available. Market price data generally is
obtained from market exchanges or dealer quotations. The types
of instruments valued based on market price data include G-7
government and agency securities, equities listed in active
markets, investments in publicly traded mutual funds with quoted
market prices and listed derivatives.

AIG estimates the fair value of fixed income instruments not
traded in active markets by referring to traded securities with
similar attributes and using a matrix pricing methodology. This
methodology considers such factors as the issuer s
industry, the security s rating and tenor, its coupon rate,
its position in the capital structure of the issuer, and other
relevant factors. The types of fixed income instruments not
traded in active markets include
 non-G-7  government
securities, municipal bonds, certain hybrid financial
instruments, most investment-grade and high-yield corporate
bonds, and most mortgage- and asset-backed products.

AIG initially estimates the fair value of equity instruments not
traded in active markets by reference to the transaction price.
This valuation is adjusted only when changes to inputs and
assumptions are corroborated by evidence such as transactions in
similar instruments, completed or pending third-party
transactions in the underlying investment or comparable
entities, subsequent rounds of financing, recapitalizations and
other transactions across the capital structure, offerings in
the equity capital markets, and changes in financial ratios or
cash flows.

For equity and fixed income instruments that are not traded in
active markets or that are subject to transfer restrictions,
valuations are adjusted to reflect illiquidity and/or
non-transferability, and such adjustments generally are based on
available market evidence. In the absence of such evidence,
management s best estimate is used.

AIG obtains the fair value of its investments in limited
partnerships and hedge funds from information provided by the
general partner or manager of the investments, the financial
statements of which generally are audited annually.

Derivative assets and liabilities can be exchange-traded or
traded over the counter (OTC). AIG generally values
exchange-traded derivatives within portfolios using models that
calibrate to market clearing levels and eliminate timing
differences between the closing price of the exchange-traded
derivatives and their underlying instruments.

OTC derivatives are valued using market transactions and other
market evidence whenever possible, including market-based inputs
to models, model calibration to market clearing transactions,
broker or dealer quotations or alternative pricing sources with
reasonable levels of price transparency. When models are used,
the selection of a particular model to value an OTC derivative
depends on the contractual terms of, and specific risks inherent
in, the instrument as well as the availability of pricing
information in the market. AIG generally uses similar models to
value similar instruments. Valuation models require a variety of
inputs, including contractual terms, market prices and rates,
yield curves, credit curves, measures of volatility, prepayment
rates and correlations of such inputs. For OTC derivatives that
trade in liquid markets, such as generic forwards, swaps and
options, model inputs can generally be verified and model
selection does not involve significant management judgment.

Certain OTC derivatives trade in less liquid markets with
limited pricing information, and the determination of fair value
for these derivatives is inherently more difficult. When AIG
does not have corroborating market evidence to support
significant model inputs and cannot verify the model to market
transactions, transaction price is initially used as the best
estimate of fair value. Accordingly, when a pricing model is
used to value such an instrument, the model is adjusted so that
the model value at inception equals the transaction price.
Subsequent to initial recognition, AIG updates valuation inputs
when corroborated by evidence such as similar market
transactions, third-party pricing services and/or broker or
dealer quotations, or other empirical market data. When
appropriate, valuations are adjusted for various factors such as
liquidity, bid/offer spreads and credit considerations. Such
adjustments are generally based on available market evidence. In
the absence of such evidence, management s best estimate is
used.

AIGFP employs a modified version of the Binomial Expansion
Technique (BET) model to value its super senior credit
default swap portfolio, including maturity-shortening puts that
allow the holders of the notes issued by certain multi-sector
CDOs to treat the notes as short-term eligible
 2a-7  investments under
the Investment Company Act of 1940
 (2a-7  Puts). The BET
model utilizes default probabilities derived from credit spreads
implied from market prices for the individual securities
included in the underlying collateral pools securing the CDOs,
as well as diversity scores, weighted average lives, recovery
rates and discount rates. The determination of some of these
inputs requires the use of judgment and estimates, particularly
in the absence of market observable data. AIGFP also employs a
Monte Carlo simulation to assist in quantifying the effect on
the valuation of the CDOs of the unique aspects of the
CDO s structure such as triggers that divert cash flows to
the most senior part of the capital structure. In the final
determination of fair value, AIGFP also considers the price
estimates for the super senior CDO notes provided by third
parties, including counterparties to these transactions, and
makes adjustments when deemed necessary. See also Risk
Management, Segment Risk Management, Financial
Services   Capital Markets Derivative Transactions and
Note 8 to Consolidated Financial Statements.

Other-Than-Temporary Impairments:

AIG evaluates its investments for impairment such that a
security is considered a candidate for other-than-temporary
impairment if it meets any of the following criteria:

Trading at a significant (25 percent or more) discount to
    par, amortized cost (if lower) or cost for an extended period of
    time (nine consecutive months or longer); 

AIG 2007
Form  10-K          
39 

Table of Contents   

American International Group, Inc. and Subsidiaries

Management s Discussion and Analysis of 

Financial Condition and Results of
Operations    Continued  

The occurrence of a discrete credit event resulting in
    (i) the issuer defaulting on a material outstanding
    obligation; (ii) the issuer seeking protection from
    creditors under the bankruptcy laws or any similar laws intended
    for court supervised reorganization of insolvent enterprises; or
    (iii) the issuer proposing a voluntary reorganization
    pursuant to which creditors are asked to exchange their claims
    for cash or securities having a fair value substantially lower
    than par value of their claims; or 

AIG may not realize a full recovery on its investment,
    regardless of the occurrence of one of the foregoing events. 

The above criteria also consider circumstances of a rapid and
severe market valuation decline, such as that experienced in
current credit markets, in which AIG could not reasonably assert
that the recovery period would be temporary (severity losses).

In light of the recent significant disruption in the
U.S. residential mortgage and credit markets, particularly
in the fourth quarter, AIG has recognized an
other-than-temporary impairment charge (severity loss) of
$2.2 billion (including $643 million related to
AIGFP s available for sale investment securities recorded
in other income), primarily from certain residential
 mortgage-backed 
securities and other structured securities. Even while retaining
their investment grade ratings, such securities were priced at a
severe discount to cost. Notwithstanding AIG s intent and
ability to hold such securities indefinitely, and despite
structures which indicate that a substantial amount of the
securities should continue to perform in accordance with their
original terms, AIG concluded that it could not reasonably
assert that the recovery period would be temporary.

At each balance sheet date, AIG evaluates its securities
holdings with unrealized losses. When AIG does not intend to
hold such securities until they have recovered their cost basis,
AIG records the unrealized loss in income. If a loss is
recognized from a sale subsequent to a balance sheet date
pursuant to changes in circumstances, the loss is recognized in
the period in which the intent to hold the securities to
recovery no longer existed.

In periods subsequent to the recognition of an
other-than-temporary impairment charge for fixed maturity
securities, which is not credit or foreign exchange related, AIG
generally accretes into income the discount or amortizes the
reduced premium resulting from the reduction in cost basis over
the remaining life of the security.

Allowance for Finance Receivable Losses
(Financial Services):

Historical defaults and delinquency
    experience:  utilizing factors, such as delinquency
    ratio, allowance ratio, charge-off ratio, and charge-off
    coverage. 

Portfolio characteristics:  portfolio composition and
    consideration of the recent changes to underwriting criteria and
    portfolio seasoning. 

External factors:  consideration of current economic
    conditions, including levels of unemployment and personal
    bankruptcies. 

Migration analysis:  empirical technique measuring
    historical movement of similar finance receivables through
    various levels of repayment, delinquency, and loss categories to
    existing finance receivable pools. 

Flight Equipment Recoverability (Financial
Services):

Expected undiscounted future net cash flows:  based upon
    current lease rates, projected future lease rates and estimated
    terminal values of each aircraft based on
     third-party  information. 

Operating Review  

General Insurance Operations

AIG s General Insurance subsidiaries write substantially
all lines of commercial property and casualty insurance and
various personal lines both domestically and abroad.

As previously noted, AIG believes it should present and discuss
its financial information in a manner most meaningful to its
financial statement users. Accordingly, in its General Insurance
business, AIG uses certain regulatory measures, where AIG has
determined these measurements to be useful and meaningful.

A critical discipline of a successful general insurance business
is the objective to produce profit from underwriting activities
taking into account costs of capital. AIG views underwriting
results to be critical in the overall evaluation of performance.

Statutory underwriting profit is derived by reducing net
premiums earned by net losses and loss expenses incurred and net
expenses incurred. Statutory accounting generally requires
immediate expense recognition and ignores the matching of
revenues and expenses as required by GAAP. That is, for
statutory purposes, expenses (including acquisition costs) are
recognized immediately, not over the same period that the
revenues are earned. Thus, statutory expenses exclude changes in
DAC.

GAAP provides for the recognition of certain acquisition
expenses at the same time revenues are earned, the accounting
principle of matching. Therefore, acquisition expenses are
deferred and amortized over the period the related net premiums
written are earned. DAC is reviewed for recoverability, and such
review requires management judgment. The most comparable GAAP
measure to statutory underwriting profit is income before income
taxes, minority interest and cumulative effect of an accounting
change. A table reconciling statutory underwriting profit to
income before income taxes, minority interest and cumulative
effect of an accounting change is contained in footnote
(d) to the following table. See also Critical Accounting
Estimates herein and Notes 1 and 6 to Consolidated
Financial Statements.

AIG, along with most general insurance companies, uses the loss
ratio, the expense ratio and the combined ratio as measures of
underwriting performance. The loss ratio is the sum of losses
and loss expenses incurred divided by net premiums earned. The
expense ratio is statutory underwriting expenses divided by net
premiums written. These ratios are relative measurements that
describe, for every $100 of net premiums earned or written, the
cost of losses and statutory expenses, respectively. The
combined ratio is the sum of the loss ratio and the expense
ratio. The combined ratio presents the total cost per $100 of
premium production. A combined ratio below 100 demonstrates
underwriting profit; a combined ratio above 100 demonstrates
underwriting loss.

40         AIG
2007 Form  10-K 

Table of Contents   

American International Group, Inc. and Subsidiaries

Net premiums written are initially deferred and earned based
upon the terms of the underlying policies. The net unearned
premium reserve constitutes deferred revenues which are
generally earned ratably over the policy period. Thus, the net
unearned premium reserve is not fully recognized in income as
net premiums earned until the end of the policy period.

The underwriting environment varies from country to country, as
does the degree of litigation activity. Regulation, product type
and competition have a direct effect on pricing and consequently
on profitability as reflected in underwriting profit and
statutory general insurance ratios.

General Insurance Results 

General Insurance operating income is
comprised of statutory underwriting profit (loss), changes in
DAC, net investment income and net realized capital gains and
losses. Operating income, as well as net premiums written, net
premiums earned, net investment income and net realized capital
gains (losses) and statutory ratios in 2007, 2006 and 2005 were
as follows:  

AIG 2007
Form  10-K          
41 

Table of Contents   

American International Group, Inc. and Subsidiaries

Management s Discussion and Analysis of 

Financial Condition and Results of
Operations    Continued  

(a)  
     
     Includes the effect of out-of-period adjustments related to
    the accounting for UCITS in 2006. For DBG, the effect was an
    increase of $66 million, and for Foreign General Insurance,
    the effect was an increase of $424 million.  

(b)  
     
     Catastrophe-related losses increased the consolidated General
    Insurance combined ratio in 2007 and 2005 by 0.60 points
    and 7.06 points, respectively. There were no significant
    catastrophe-related losses in 2006. Catastrophe-related losses
    in 2007 and 2005 by reporting unit were as follows:  

(c)  
     
     Includes amortization of advertising costs.  

42         AIG
2007 Form  10-K 

Table of Contents   

American International Group, Inc. and Subsidiaries

(d)  
     
     Statutory underwriting profit (loss) is a measure that
    U.S. domiciled insurance companies are required to report
    to their regulatory authorities. The following table reconciles
    statutory underwriting profit (loss) to operating income for
    General Insurance for the years ended December 31, 2007,
    2006 and 2005:  

AIG transacts business in most major
foreign currencies. The following table summarizes the effect of
changes in foreign currency exchange rates on the growth of
General Insurance net premiums written for the years ended
December 31, 2007 and 2006:  

* Computed using a constant exchange rate for each
period. 

2007 and 2006 Comparison  

General Insurance operating income increased in 2007 compared to
2006 due to growth in net investment income, partially offset by
a decline in underwriting profit and Net realized capital
losses. The 2007 combined ratio increased to 90.3, an increase
of 1.2 points compared to 2006, primarily due to an
increase in the loss ratio of 1.0 points. The loss ratio
for accident year 2007 recorded in 2007 was 2.3 points
higher than the loss ratio recorded in 2006 for accident year
2006. Increases in Mortgage Guaranty losses accounted for a
2.1 point increase in the 2007 accident year loss ratio.
The downward cycle in the U.S. housing market is not
expected to improve until residential inventories return to a
more normal level, and AIG expects that this downward cycle will
continue to adversely affect Mortgage Guaranty s loss
ratios for the foreseeable future. The higher accident year loss
ratio was partially offset by favorable development on prior
years, which reduced incurred losses by $606 million and
$53 million in 2007 and 2006, respectively. Additional
favorable loss development of $50 million (recognized in
consolidation and related to certain asbestos settlements)
reduced overall incurred losses.

General Insurance net premiums written increased in 2007
compared to 2006, reflecting growth in Foreign General Insurance
from both established and new distribution channels, and the
effect of changes in foreign currency exchange rates as well as
growth in Mortgage Guaranty, primarily from international
business.

General Insurance net investment income increased in 2007 by
$436 million. Interest and dividend income increased
$714 million in 2007 compared to 2006 as fixed maturities
and equity securities increased by $11.6 billion and the
average yield increased 10 basis points. Income from
partnership investments increased $159 million in 2007
compared to 2006, primarily due to improved returns on
underlying investments and higher levels of invested assets.
Investment expenses in 2007 declined $60 million compared
to 2006, primarily due to decreased interest expense on deposit
liabilities. These increases to net investment income were
partially offset by $490 million of income from an out of
period UCITS adjustment recorded in 2006. Net realized capital
losses in 2007 include other-than-temporary impairment charges
of $276 million compared to $77 million in 2006. See
also Capital Resources and Liquidity and Invested Assets herein.

In order to better align financial reporting with the manner in
which AIG s chief operating decision makers manage their
businesses, commencing in 2007, the foreign aviation business,
which was historically reported in DBG, is now reported as part
of Foreign General Insurance, and the oil rig and marine
businesses, which were historically reported in Foreign General
Insurance, are now reported as part of DBG. Prior period amounts
have been revised to conform to the current presentation.

2006 and 2005 Comparison  

General Insurance operating income increased in 2006 compared to
2005 due to growth in net premiums, a reduction in both

AIG 2007
Form  10-K          
43 

Table of Contents   

American International Group, Inc. and Subsidiaries

Management s Discussion and Analysis of 

Financial Condition and Results of
Operations    Continued  

catastrophe losses and prior accident year development, and
growth in Net investment income. The combined ratio improved to
89.1, a reduction of 15.6 points from 2005, including an
improvement in the loss ratio of 16.5 points. The reduction in
catastrophe losses represented 6.9 points and the reduction in
prior year adverse development represented 11.5 points of the
overall reduction. Net premiums written increased
$3.0 billion or 7 percent in 2006 compared to 2005.
Domestic General Insurance accounted for $1.6 billion of
the increase as property rates improved and submission activity
increased due to the strength of AIG s capacity, commitment
to difficult markets and diverse product offerings. Foreign
General Insurance contributed $1.4 billion to the increase
in net premiums written. In 2005, Domestic General Insurance net
premiums written increased by $300 million and Foreign
General Insurance net premiums written decreased by the same
amount as a result of the commutation of the Richmond
reinsurance contract. The commutation partially offset the
increase in Domestic General Insurance net premiums written in
2006 compared to 2005 and increased Foreign General Insurance
net premiums written in 2006 compared to 2005.

In 2006, certain adjustments were made in conjunction with the
remediation of the material weakness relating to balance sheet
account reconciliations which increased earned premiums by
$189 million and increased other expenses by
$415 million. The combined effect of these adjustments
increased the expense ratio by 0.9 points and decreased the loss
ratio by 0.3 points.

General Insurance net investment income increased
$1.67 billion in 2006 to $5.7 billion on higher levels
of invested assets, strong cash flows, slightly higher yields
and increased partnership income, and included increases from
out of period adjustments of $490 million related to the
accounting for certain interests in UCITS, $43 million
related to partnership income and $85 million related to
interest earned on a DBG deposit contract. See also Capital
Resources and Liquidity   Liquidity and Invested
Assets herein.

DBG Results  

2007 and 2006 Comparison

DBG s operating income increased in 2007 compared to 2006
primarily due to growth in both net investment income and
underwriting profit. The improvement is also reflected in the
combined ratio, which declined 4.5 points in 2007 compared
to 2006, primarily due to an improvement in the loss ratio of
3.3 points. Catastrophe-related losses increased the 2007
loss ratio by 0.4 points. The loss ratio for accident year
2007 recorded in 2007 was 0.9 points lower than the loss
ratio recorded in 2006 for accident year 2006. The loss ratio
for accident year 2006 has improved in each quarter since
September 30, 2006. As a result, the 2007 accident year
loss ratio is 2.8 points higher than the 2006 accident year
loss ratio, reflecting reductions in 2006 accident year losses
recorded through December 31, 2007. Prior year development
reduced incurred losses by $390 million in 2007 and
increased incurred losses by $175 million in 2006,
accounting for 2.4 points of the improvement in the loss
ratio.

DBG s net premiums written declined in 2007 compared to
2006 as ceded premiums as a percentage of gross written premiums
increased to 24 percent in 2007 compared to 23 percent
in 2006, primarily due to additional reinsurance for property
risks to manage catastrophe exposures.

DBG s expense ratio decreased to 18.7 in 2007 compared to
19.8 in 2006, primarily due to the 2006 charge related to the
remediation of the material weakness in internal control over
certain balance sheet reconciliations that accounted for
2.1 points of the decline. The decline was partially offset
by increases in operating expenses for marketing initiatives and
operations.

DBG s net investment income increased in 2007 compared to
2006, as interest income increased $384 million in 2007, on
growth in the bond portfolio resulting from investment of
operating cash flows. Income from partnership investments
increased $159 million in 2007 compared to 2006, primarily
due to improved returns on the underlying investments. Other
investment income declined $163 million in 2007 compared to
2006, primarily due to out of period adjustments of
$194 million recorded in 2006. DBG recorded net realized
capital losses in 2007 compared to net realized capital gains in
2006 primarily due to other-than-temporary impairment charges of
$213 million in 2007 compared to $73 million in 2006.

2006 and 2005 Comparison

DBG s operating income was $5.85 billion in 2006
compared to a loss of $820 million in 2005, an improvement
of $6.67 billion. The improvement is also reflected in the
combined ratio, which declined to 89.9 in 2006 compared to 114.6
in 2005 primarily due to an improvement in the loss ratio of
24.9 points. The reduction in prior year adverse development and
the reduction in catastrophe losses and related reinstatement
premiums accounted for 20.7 points and 8.3 points, respectively,
of the improvement.

DBG s net premiums written increased in 2006 compared to
2005 as property rates improved and submission activity
increased due to the strength of AIG s capacity, commitment
to difficult markets and diverse product offerings. Net premiums
written in 2005 were reduced by $136 million due to
reinstatement premiums related to catastrophes, offset by
increases of $300 million for the Richmond commutation and
$147 million related to an accrual for workers compensation
premiums for payroll not yet reported by insured employers. The
combined effect of these items reduced the growth rate for net
premiums written by 1.3 percent.

The loss ratio in 2006 declined 24.9 points to 70.2. The 2005
loss ratio was negatively affected by catastrophe-related losses
of $1.8 billion and related reinstatement premiums of
$136 million. Adverse development on reserves for loss and
loss adjustment expenses declined to $175 million in 2006
compared to $4.9 billion in 2005, accounting for 20.7
points of the decrease in the loss ratio.

DBG s expense ratio increased to 19.8 in 2006 compared to
19.5 in 2005, primarily due to an increase in other expenses
that amounted to $498 million in 2006 (including out of
period charges of $356 million) compared to
$372 million in 2005. This increase added 0.4 points to the
expense ratio.

44         AIG
2007 Form  10-K 

Table of Contents   

American International Group, Inc. and Subsidiaries

DBG s net investment income increased by $1.0 billion
in 2006 compared to 2005, as interest income increased
$482 million on growth in the bond portfolio resulting from
investment of operating cash flows and capital contributions.
Partnership income increased from 2005 due to improved
performance of the underlying investments, including initial
public offering activity. Net investment income in 2006 included
increases relating to out of period adjustments of
$109 million for the accounting for UCITS and partnerships
and $85 million related to interest earned on a deposit
contract that did not exist in the prior year.

Transatlantic Results  

2007 and 2006 Comparison

Transatlantic s net premiums written and net premiums
earned increased in 2007 compared to 2006 due to increases in
both domestic and international operations. The increase in
statutory underwriting profit in 2007 compared to 2006 reflects
improved underwriting results in Domestic operations. Operating
income increased in 2007 compared to 2006 due principally to
increased net investment income and improved underwriting
results.

2006 and 2005 Comparison

Transatlantic s net premiums written and net premiums
earned increased in 2006 compared to 2005 due primarily to
increased writings in domestic operations. Operating income
increased in 2006 compared to 2005 due largely to lower
catastrophe losses and net ceded reinstatement premiums, and
increased net investment income.

Personal Lines Results  

2007 and 2006 Comparison

Personal Lines operating income in 2007 decreased by
$365 million compared to 2006, largely due to an increase
in incurred losses from a number of sources, leading to an
overall increase in the loss ratio of 6.8 points. Prior year net
adverse reserve development contributed 2.5 points of this
increase in the loss ratio, as Personal Lines experienced
$7 million in net adverse development (including
$64 million in adverse development from businesses placed
in runoff), compared to $111 million of favorable
development in 2006. An additional 1.6 point increase in the
loss ratio resulted from $61 million of losses and
$14 million of reinstatement premiums due to the California
wildfires. In addition, an increase in the loss ratio recorded
in 2007 for accident year 2007 compared to the loss ratio
recorded in 2006 for accident year 2006 of 2.7 points resulted,
in part, from an increased frequency of large losses in the
Private Client Group and average automobile premiums declining
faster than loss trends.

Operating income also declined due to increased expenses. The
expense ratio increased 1.1 points in 2007 compared to
2006, primarily due to $63 million of transaction and
integration costs associated with the 2007 acquisition of the
minority interest in 21st Century.

Net premiums written increased in 2007 compared to 2006 due to
continued growth in the Private Client Group and increased new
business production in the aigdirect.com business partially
offset by a reduction in the Agency Auto business.

On September 27, 2007, AIG completed its previously
announced acquisition of 21st Century, paying
$759 million to acquire the remaining 39.2 percent of
the shares of 21st Century that it did not previously own.
As a result of the acquisition, the AIG Direct and
21st Century operations have been combined as aigdirect.com.

Under the purchase method of accounting, the assets and
liabilities of 21st Century that were acquired were
adjusted to their estimated fair values as of the date of the
acquisition, and goodwill of $342 million was recorded. A
customer relationship intangible asset, initially valued at
$119 million, was also established.

2006 and 2005 Comparison

Personal Lines operating income increased $237 million in
2006 compared to 2005 reflecting a reduction in the loss ratio
of 5.8 points. Favorable development on prior accident years
reduced incurred losses by $111 million in 2006 compared to
an increase of $14 million in 2005, accounting for 2.7
points of the decrease in the loss ratio. The 2005
catastrophe-related losses of $112 million added 2.4 points
to the loss ratio. The loss ratio for the 2006 accident year
improved 0.7 points primarily due to the termination of The
Robert Plan relationship effective December 31, 2005 and
growth in the Private Client Group. The improvement in the loss
ratio was partially offset by an increase in the expense ratio
of 0.6 points primarily due to investments in people and
technology, national expansion efforts and lower response rates.
Net premiums written were flat in 2006 compared to 2005, with
growth in the Private Client Group and Agency Auto divisions
offset by termination of The Robert Plan relationship. Growth in
the Private Client Group spans multiple products, with a
continued penetration of the high net worth market, strong brand
promotion and innovative loss prevention programs.

Mortgage Guaranty Results  

2007 and 2006 Comparison

Mortgage Guaranty s operating loss in 2007 was
$637 million compared to operating income of
$328 million in 2006 as the deteriorating
U.S. residential housing market adversely affected losses
incurred for both the domestic first- and second-lien
businesses. Domestic first- and second-lien losses incurred
increased 362 percent and 346 percent respectively,
compared to 2006, resulting in loss ratios of 122.0 and
357.0, respectively, in 2007. Increases in domestic losses
incurred resulted in an overall loss ratio of 168.6 in 2007
compared to 47.2 in 2006. Prior year development reduced
incurred losses in 2007 by $25 million compared to a
reduction of $115 million in 2006, which accounted for
12.7 points of the increase in the loss ratio.

Net premiums written increased in 2007 compared to 2006
primarily due to growth in the international markets, accounting
for 19 percent of the increase in net premiums written. In
addition

AIG 2007
Form  10-K          
45 

Table of Contents   

American International Group, Inc. and Subsidiaries

Management s Discussion and Analysis of 

Financial Condition and Results of
Operations    Continued  

the increased use of mortgage insurance for credit enhancement
as well as better persistency resulted in an increase in
domestic first-lien premiums. UGC has taken steps to strengthen
its underwriting guidelines and increase rates. It also
discontinued new production for certain programs in the
second-lien business beginning in the fourth quarter of 2006.
However, UGC will continue to receive renewal premiums on that
portfolio for the life of the loans, estimated to be three to
five years, and will continue to be exposed to possible losses
from future defaults.

The expense ratio in 2007 was 21.2, down from 23.4 in 2006 as
premium growth offset the effect of increased expenses related
to UGC s international expansion and the employment of
additional operational resources in the second-lien business.

UGC domestic mortgage risk in force totaled $29.8 billion
as of December 31, 2007 and the
 60-day  delinquency
ratio was 3.7 percent (based on number of policies,
consistent with mortgage industry practice) compared to domestic
mortgage risk in force of $24.9 billion and a delinquency
ratio of 2.1 percent at December 31, 2006.
Approximately 81 percent of the domestic mortgage risk is
secured by first-lien, owner-occupied properties.

2006 and 2005 Comparison

Mortgage Guaranty operating income declined in 2006 from 2005
due primarily to unfavorable loss experience on third-party
originated second-lien business with a credit quality lower than
typical for UGC and a softening U.S. housing market. This
increased Mortgage Guaranty s consolidated loss ratio in
2006 to 47.2 compared to 26.0 in 2005. The writing of this
second-lien coverage, which began in 2005, was discontinued as
of year end 2006. Losses in the second-lien business have been
mitigated by a policy year aggregate limitation provision that
is typically established for each lender.

Net premiums written increased due to growth in the domestic
second-lien and international businesses as well as improved
persistency in the domestic first-lien business. The expense
ratio remained flat as premium growth covered increased expenses
related to expansion internationally and continued investment in
risk management resources.

Foreign General Insurance
Results  

2007 and 2006 Comparison

Foreign General Insurance operating income decreased in 2007
compared to 2006, due primarily to decreases in Net investment
income and statutory underwriting profit. Net investment income
in 2006 included income of $424 million from out of period
UCITS adjustments. Statutory underwriting profit decreased due
to losses from the June 2007 U.K. floods, an increase in severe
but non-catastrophic losses and higher frequency of non-severe
losses compared to 2006, partially offset by higher favorable
loss development on prior accident years.

Net premiums written increased 14 percent (10 percent
in original currency) in 2007 compared to 2006, reflecting
growth in commercial and consumer lines driven by new business
from both established and new distribution channels, including
Central Insurance Co. Ltd. in Taiwan acquired in late 2006. Net
premiums written for commercial lines increased due to new
business in the U.K. and Europe and decreases in the use of
reinsurance, partially offset by declines in premium rates.
Growth in consumer lines in Latin America, Asia and Europe also
contributed to the increase. Net premiums written for the
Lloyd s syndicate Ascot (Ascot) and Aviation declined due
to rate decreases and increased market competition.

The 2007 loss ratio increased a total of 1.7 points compared to
2006. Losses of $90 million from the June 2007 U.K. floods
added 0.7 points to the loss ratio and higher severe but
non-catastrophic losses and higher loss frequency for personal
accident business in Japan and personal lines business in Asia
and Latin America added 1.6 points to the loss ratio.
Partially offsetting these increases was favorable loss
development on prior accident years of $286 million in 2007
compared to $183 million in 2006, which decreased the loss
ratio by 0.6 points.

The 2007 expense ratio increased 1.3 points compared to 2006.
This increase reflected the cost of realigning certain legal
entities through which Foreign General Insurance operates and
the increased significance of consumer lines of business, which
have higher acquisition costs. These factors contributed
0.7 points to the 2007 expense ratio. AIG expects the
expense ratio to increase in 2008 due to the continued cost of
realigning certain legal entities through which Foreign General
Insurance operates.

Net investment income decreased in 2007 compared to 2006 as the
2006 period included the out of period UCITS adjustments, which
more than offset increases resulting from higher interest rates,
increased cash flows and mutual fund income. Mutual fund income
was $93 million higher than 2006 reflecting improved
performance in the equity markets in 2007. Partnership income
was essentially unchanged.

2006 and 2005 Comparison

Foreign General Insurance operating income increased in 2006
compared to 2005 due to out of period UCITS adjustments in 2006,
the absence of significant catastrophe-related losses in 2006,
rate increases and lower current accident year losses by Ascot
on its U.S. book of business and lower asbestos and
environmental reserve increases. These increases were partially
offset by lower favorable loss development from prior accident
years and adverse loss development on the 2005 hurricanes.
Statutory underwriting profit increased $104 million in
2006 compared to 2005. Catastrophes in 2005 resulted in losses
of $229 million and reinstatement premiums of
$80 million.

Net premiums written increased 14 percent (15 percent
in original currency) in 2006 compared to 2005, reflecting
growth in both commercial and consumer lines driven by new
business from both established and new distribution channels,
including a wholly owned insurance company in Vietnam and
Central Insurance Co., Ltd. in Taiwan. Ascot also contributed to
the growth in net premiums written as a result of rate increases
on its U.S. business. Consumer lines in Latin America and
commercial lines in Europe, including the U.K., also contributed
to the increase. Net premiums written in 2005 were reduced by
reinstatement premiums related to catastrophes and a portfolio

46         AIG
2007 Form  10-K 

Table of Contents   

American International Group, Inc. and Subsidiaries

transfer of unearned premium reserves to DBG related to the
Richmond commutation, accounting for 4 percent of the
increase in 2006 compared to 2005.

The loss ratio decreased 3.1 points in 2006 compared to 2005, as
the absence of significant catastrophes in 2006 resulted in a
decrease in the loss ratio of 2.8 points. The loss ratio also
decreased due to rate increases and lower current year losses by
Ascot on its U.S. book of business and lower asbestos and
environmental reserve increases. These declines were partially
offset by lower favorable loss development from prior accident
years and adverse development on 2005 hurricanes.

The expense ratio increased 1.8 points in 2006 compared to
2005 due to a $59 million out of period adjustment for
amortization of deferred advertising costs and a premium
reduction of $61 million related to reconciliation
remediation activities, in aggregate accounting for 0.7 points
of the increase in the expense ratio. The expense ratio also
increased due to growth in consumer business lines, which have
higher acquisition expenses but historically lower loss ratios.

Net investment income increased $540 million in 2006
compared to 2005 primarily due to a $424 million out of
period UCITS adjustment.

Reserve for Losses and Loss Expenses 

The following table presents the
components of the General Insurance gross reserve for losses and
loss expenses (loss reserves) as of December 31, 2007 and
2006 by major lines of business on a statutory Annual Statement
basis (a)    :

(a)   
     
     Presented by lines of business pursuant to statutory
    reporting requirements as prescribed by the National Association
    of Insurance Commissioners.  

(b)   
     
     Allocations among various lines were revised based on the
    2007 presentation.  

AIG s gross reserve for losses and loss expenses represents
the accumulation of estimates of ultimate losses, including
estimates for incurred but not yet reported reserves (IBNR) and
loss expenses. The methods used to determine loss reserve
estimates and to establish the resulting reserves are
continually reviewed and updated by management. Any adjustments
resulting therefrom are reflected in operating income currently.
Because loss reserve estimates are subject to the outcome of
future events, changes in estimates are unavoidable given that
loss trends vary and time is often required for changes in
trends to be recognized and confirmed. Reserve changes that
increase previous estimates of ultimate cost are referred to as
unfavorable or adverse development or reserve strengthening.
Reserve changes that decrease previous estimates of ultimate
cost are referred to as favorable development.

Estimates for mortgage guaranty insurance losses and loss
adjustment expense reserves are based on notices of mortgage
loan delinquencies and estimates of delinquencies that have been
incurred but have not been reported by loan servicers, based
upon historical reporting trends. Mortgage Guaranty establishes
reserves using a percentage of the contractual liability (for
each delinquent loan reported) that is based upon past
experience regarding certain loan factors such as age of the
delinquency, dollar amount of the loan and type of mortgage
loan. Because mortgage delinquencies and claims payments are
affected primarily by macroeconomic events, such as changes in
home price appreciation, interest rates and unemployment, the
determination of the ultimate loss cost requires a high degree
of judgment. AIG believes it has provided appropriate reserves
for currently delinquent loans. Consistent with industry
practice, AIG does not establish a reserve for loans that are
not currently delinquent, but that may become delinquent in
future periods.

At December 31, 2007, General Insurance net loss reserves
increased $6.66 billion from 2006 to $69.29 billion.
The net loss reserves represent loss reserves reduced by
reinsurance recoverable, net of an allowance for unrecoverable
reinsurance and applicable discount for future investment income.

The following table classifies the
components of the General Insurance net loss reserve by business
unit as of December 31, 2007 and 2006:  

AIG 2007
Form  10-K          
47 

Table of Contents   

American International Group, Inc. and Subsidiaries

Management s Discussion and Analysis of 

Financial Condition and Results of
Operations    Continued  

The DBG net loss reserve of $47.4 billion is comprised
principally of the business of AIG subsidiaries participating in
the American Home Assurance Company (American Home)/ National
Union Fire Insurance Company of Pittsburgh, Pa. (National Union)
pool (10 companies) and the surplus lines pool (Lexington,
AIG Excess Liability Insurance Company and Landmark Insurance
Company).

DBG cedes a quota share percentage of its other liability
occurrence and products liability occurrence business to AIRCO.
The quota share percentage ceded was 15 percent in 2007 and
20 percent in 2006 and covered all business written in
these years for these lines by participants in the American
Home/ National Union pool. AIRCO s loss reserves relating
to these quota share cessions from DBG are recorded on a
discounted basis. As of December 31, 2007, AIRCO carried a
discount of approximately $210 million applicable to the
$3.34 billion in undiscounted reserves it assumed from the
American Home/ National Union pool via this quota share cession.
AIRCO also carries approximately $540 million in net loss
reserves relating to Foreign General Insurance business. These
reserves are carried on an undiscounted basis.

The companies participating in the American Home/ National Union
pool have maintained a participation in the business written by
AIU for decades. As of December 31, 2007, these AIU
reserves carried by participants in the American Home/ National
Union pool totaled approximately $3.02 billion. The
remaining Foreign General Insurance reserves are carried by
AIUO, AIRCO, and other smaller AIG subsidiaries domiciled
outside the United States. Statutory filings in the United
States by AIG companies reflect all the business written by
U.S. domiciled entities only, and therefore exclude
business written by AIUO, AIRCO, and all other internationally
domiciled subsidiaries. The total reserves carried at
December 31, 2007 by AIUO and AIRCO were approximately
$5.16 billion and $3.67 billion, respectively.
AIRCO s $3.67 billion in total general insurance
reserves consist of approximately $3.13 billion from
business assumed from the American Home/ National Union pool and
an additional $540 million relating to Foreign General
Insurance business.

Discounting of Reserves  

At December 31, 2007, AIG s overall General Insurance
net loss reserves reflect a loss reserve discount of
$2.43 billion, including tabular and non-tabular
calculations. The tabular workers compensation discount is
calculated using a 3.5 percent interest rate and the
1979-81 Decennial Mortality Table. The non-tabular workers
compensation discount is calculated separately for companies
domiciled in New York and Pennsylvania, and follows the
statutory regulations for each state. For New York companies,
the discount is based on a five percent interest rate and the
companies  own payout patterns. For Pennsylvania companies,
the statute has specified discount factors for accident years
2001 and prior, which are based on a six percent interest rate
and an industry payout pattern. For accident years 2002 and
subsequent, the discount is based on the yield of
U.S. Treasury securities ranging from one to twenty years
and the company s own payout pattern, with the future
expected payment for each year using the interest rate
associated with the corresponding Treasury security yield for
that time period. The discount is comprised of the following:
$794 million   tabular discount for workers
compensation in DBG; $1.42 billion   non-tabular
discount for workers compensation in DBG; and,
$210 million   non-tabular discount for other
liability occurrence and products liability occurrence in AIRCO.
The total undiscounted workers compensation loss reserve carried
by DBG is approximately $13.3 billion as of
December 31, 2007. The other liability occurrence and
products liability occurrence business in AIRCO that is assumed
from DBG is discounted based on the yield of U.S. Treasury
securities ranging from one to twenty years and the DBG payout
pattern for this business. The undiscounted reserves assumed by
AIRCO from DBG totaled approximately $3.34 billion at
December 31, 2007.

Results of the Reserving
Process  

Management believes that the General Insurance net loss reserves
are adequate to cover General Insurance net losses and loss
expenses as of December 31, 2007. While AIG regularly
reviews the adequacy of established loss reserves, there can be
no assurance that AIG s ultimate loss reserves will not
develop adversely and materially exceed AIG s loss reserves
as of December 31, 2007. In the opinion of management, such
adverse development and resulting increase in reserves is not
likely to have a material adverse effect on AIG s
consolidated financial condition, although it could have a
material adverse effect on AIG s consolidated results of
operations for an individual reporting period. See also
Item 1A. Risk Factors   Casualty Insurance and
Underwriting Reserves.

48         AIG
2007 Form  10-K 

Table of Contents   

American International Group, Inc. and Subsidiaries

The following table presents the
reconciliation of net loss reserves for 2007, 2006 and 2005 as
follows:  

(a)   
     
     Reflects the opening balance with respect to the acquisitions
    of W Ba and the Central Insurance Co., Ltd. in 2007 and
    2006, respectively.  

(b)   
     
     Includes fourth quarter charge of $1.8 billion.  

The following tables summarize
development, (favorable) or unfavorable, of incurred losses
and loss expenses for prior years (other than accretion of
discount):  

*   
     
     Represents the effect of settlements of certain asbestos
    liabilities.  

In determining the loss development from prior accident years,
AIG conducts analyses to determine the change in estimated
ultimate loss for each accident year for each profit center. For
example, if loss emergence for a profit center is different than
expected for certain accident years, the actuaries examine the
indicated effect such emergence would have on the reserves of
that profit center. In some cases, the higher or lower than
expected emergence may result in no clear change in the ultimate
loss estimate for the accident years in question, and no
adjustment would be made to the profit center s reserves
for prior accident years. In other cases, the higher or lower
than expected emergence may result in a larger change, either
favorable or unfavorable, than the difference between the actual
and expected loss emergence. Such additional analyses were
conducted for each profit center, as appropriate, in 2007 to
determine the loss development from prior accident years for
2007. As part of its reserving process, AIG also considers
notices of claims received with respect to emerging issues, such
as those related to the U.S. mortgage and housing market.

The loss ratios recorded by AIG in 2006 took into account the
results of the comprehensive reserve reviews that were completed
in the fourth quarter of 2005. AIG s year-end 2005 reserve
review reflected careful consideration of the reserve analyses
prepared by AIG s internal actuarial staff with the
assistance of third-party

AIG 2007
Form  10-K          
49 

Table of Contents   

American International Group, Inc. and Subsidiaries

Management s Discussion and Analysis of 

Financial Condition and Results of
Operations    Continued  

actuaries. In determining the appropriate loss ratios for
accident year 2006 for each class of business, AIG gave
consideration to the loss ratios resulting from the 2005 reserve
analyses as well as all other relevant information including
rate changes, expected changes in loss costs, changes in
coverage, reinsurance or mix of business, and other factors that
may affect the loss ratios.

2007 Net Loss Development  

In 2007, net loss development from prior accident years was
favorable by approximately $656 million, including
approximately $88 million of adverse development from
Transatlantic; and excluding approximately $327 million
from accretion of loss reserve discount. Excluding
Transatlantic, as well as accretion of discount, net loss
development in 2007 from prior accident years was favorable by
approximately $744 million. The overall favorable
development of $656 million consisted of approximately
$2.12 billion of favorable development from accident years
2004 through 2006, partially offset by approximately
$1.43 billion of adverse development from accident years
2002 and prior and $37 million of adverse development from
accident year 2003. In 2007, most classes of AIG s business
continued to experience favorable development for accident years
2004 through 2006. The majority of the adverse development from
accident years 2002 and prior was related to development from
excess casualty and primary workers compensation business within
DBG and from Transatlantic. The development from accident year
2003 was primarily related to adverse development from excess
casualty and primary workers compensation business within DBG
offset by favorable development from most other classes of
business. The overall favorable development of $656 million
includes approximately $305 million pertaining to the
D&O and related management liability classes of business
within DBG, consisting of approximately $335 million of
favorable development from accident years 2003 through 2006,
partially offset by approximately $30 million of adverse
development from accident years 2002 and prior. The overall
favorable development of $656 million also includes
approximately $300 million of adverse development from
primary workers compensation business within DBG. See Volatility
of Reserve Estimates and Sensitivity Analyses below.

2006 Net Loss Development  

In 2006, net loss development from prior accident years was
favorable by approximately $53 million, including
approximately $198 million in net adverse development from
asbestos and environmental reserves resulting from the updated
ground up analysis of these exposures in the fourth quarter of
2006; approximately $103 million of adverse development
pertaining to the major hurricanes in 2004 and 2005; and
$181 million of adverse development from Transatlantic; and
excluding approximately $300 million from accretion of loss
reserve discount. Excluding the fourth quarter asbestos and
environmental reserve increase, catastrophes and Transatlantic,
as well as accretion of discount, net loss development in 2006
from prior accident years was favorable by approximately
$535 million. The overall favorable development of
$53 million consisted of approximately $2.30 billion
of favorable development from accident years 2003 through 2005,
partially offset by approximately $2.25 billion of adverse
development from accident years 2002 and prior. In 2006, most
classes of AIG s business continued to experience favorable
development for accident years 2003 through 2005. The adverse
development from accident years 2002 and prior reflected
development from excess casualty, workers compensation, excess
workers compensation, and post-1986 environmental liability
classes of business, all within DBG, from asbestos reserves
within DBG and Foreign General Insurance, and from Transatlantic.

2005 Net Loss Development  

In 2005, net loss development from prior accident years was
adverse by approximately $4.68 billion, including
approximately $269 million from Transatlantic. This
$4.68 billion adverse development in 2005 was comprised of
approximately $8.60 billion for the 2002 and prior accident
years, partially offset by favorable development for accident
years 2003 and 2004 for most classes of business, with the
notable exception of D&O. The adverse loss development for
2002 and prior accident years was attributable to approximately
$4.0 billion of development from the D&O and related
management liability classes of business, excess casualty, and
excess workers compensation, and to approximately
$900 million of adverse development from asbestos and
environmental claims. The remaining portion of the adverse
development from 2002 and prior accident years included
approximately $520 million related to Transatlantic with
the balance spread across many other classes of business. Most
classes of business produced favorable development for accident
years 2003 and 2004, and adverse development for accident years
2001 and prior.

Net Loss Development by Class of
Business  

The following is a discussion of the primary reasons for the
development in 2007, 2006 and 2005 for those classes of business
that experienced significant prior accident year developments
during the three-year period. See Asbestos and Environmental
Reserves below for a further discussion of asbestos and
environmental reserves and developments.

Excess Casualty:  Excess Casualty reserves experienced
significant adverse loss development in 2005, but there was only
a relatively minor amount of adverse development in 2006 and
2007. The adverse development for all periods shown related
principally to accident years 2002 and prior, and resulted from
significant loss cost increases due to both frequency and
severity of claims. The increase in loss costs resulted
primarily from medical inflation, which increased the economic
loss component of tort claims, advances in medical care, which
extended the life span of severely injured claimants, and larger
jury verdicts, which increased the value of severe tort claims.
An additional factor affecting AIG s excess casualty
experience in recent years has been the accelerated exhaustion
of underlying primary policies for homebuilders. This has led to
increased construction defect-related claims activity on
AIG s excess policies. Many excess casualty policies were
written on a multi-year basis in the late

50         AIG
2007 Form  10-K 

Table of Contents   

American International Group, Inc. and Subsidiaries

1990s, which limited AIG s ability to respond to emerging
market trends as rapidly as would otherwise be the case. In
subsequent years, AIG responded to these emerging trends by
increasing rates and implementing numerous policy form and
coverage changes. This led to a significant improvement in
experience beginning with accident year 2001. In 2007, a
significant portion of the adverse development from accident
years 2002 and prior also related to other latent exposures,
including pharmaceutical and product aggregate-related exposures
as well as the construction defect exposures noted above.
AIG s exposure to these latent exposures was sharply
reduced after 2002 due to significant changes in policy terms
and conditions as well as underwriting guidelines.

For the year-end 2005 loss reserve review, AIG s actuaries
responded to the continuing adverse development by further
increasing the loss development factors applicable to accident
years 1999 and subsequent by approximately 5 percent. In
addition, to more accurately estimate losses for construction
defect-related claims, a separate review was performed by AIG
claims staff for accounts with significant exposure to these
claims.

For the year-end 2006 loss reserve review, AIG claims staff
updated the separate review for accounts with significant
exposure to construction defect-related claims in order to
assist the actuaries in determining the proper reserve for this
exposure. AIG s actuaries determined that no significant
changes in the assumptions were required. Prior accident year
loss development in 2006 was adverse by approximately
$100 million, a relatively minor amount for this class of
business. However, AIG continued to experience adverse
development for this class for accident years prior to 2003.

For the year-end 2007 loss reserve review, AIG claims staff
updated its review of accounts with significant exposure to
construction defect-related claims. AIG s actuaries
determined that no significant changes in the assumptions were
required. Prior accident year loss developments in 2007 were
adverse by approximately $75 million, a minor amount for
this class of business. However, AIG continued to experience
adverse development in this class for accident years 2002 and
prior, amounting to approximately $450 million in 2007. In
addition, loss reserves developed adversely for accident year
2003 by approximately $100 million in 2007 for this class.
The loss ratio for accident year 2003 remains very favorable for
this class and has been relatively stable over the past several
years. Favorable developments in 2007 for accident years 2004
through 2006 largely offset the adverse developments from
accident years 2003 and prior. A significant portion of the
adverse development from accident years 2002 and prior related
to the latent exposures described above.

Loss reserves pertaining to the excess casualty class of
business are generally included in the other liability
occurrence line of business, with a small portion of the excess
casualty reserves included in the other liability claims made
line of business, as presented in the table above.

D&O and Related Management Liability Classes of
Business:  These classes of business experienced significant
adverse development in 2005, but experienced slightly favorable
development in 2006 and more significantly favorable development
in 2007. The adverse development in 2005 related principally to
accident years 2002 and prior. This adverse development resulted
from significant loss cost escalation due to a variety of
factors, including the following: the increase in frequency and
severity of corporate bankruptcies; the increase in frequency of
financial statement restatements; the sharp rise in market
capitalization of publicly traded companies; and the increase in
the number of initial public offerings, which led to an
unprecedented number of IPO allocation/laddering suits in 2001.
In addition, extensive utilization of multi-year policies during
this period limited AIG s ability to respond to emerging
trends as rapidly as would otherwise be the case. AIG
experienced significant adverse loss development during the
period 2002 through 2005 as a result of these issues. AIG
responded to this development with rate increases and policy
form and coverage changes to better contain future loss costs in
this class of business.

For the year-end 2005 loss reserve review, AIG s actuaries
responded to the continuing adverse development by further
increasing the loss development factor assumptions. The loss
development factors applicable to 1997 and subsequent accident
years were increased by approximately 4 percent. In
addition, AIG s actuaries began to give greater weight to
loss development methods for accident years 2002 and 2003, in
order to more fully respond to the recent loss experience.
AIG s claims staff also conducted a series of
 ground-up  claim
projections covering all open claims for this business through
accident year 2004. AIG s actuaries benchmarked the loss
reserve indications for all accident years through 2004 to these
claim projections.

For the year-end 2006 loss reserve review, AIG s actuaries
determined that no significant changes in the assumptions were
required. Prior accident year loss development in 2006 was
favorable by approximately $20 million, an insignificant
amount for these classes. AIG s actuaries continued to
benchmark the loss reserve indications to the ground-up claim
projections provided by AIG claims staff for this class of
business. For the year-end 2006 loss reserve review, the
ground-up claim projections included all accident years through
2005.

For the year-end 2007 loss reserve review, AIG s actuaries
determined that no significant changes in the assumptions were
required. Prior accident year reserve development in 2007 was
favorable by approximately $305 million, due primarily to
favorable development from accident years 2004 and 2005, and to
a lesser extent 2003 and 2006. AIG s actuaries continued to
benchmark the loss reserve indications to the ground-up claim
projections provided by AIG claims staff for this class of
business. For the year-end 2007 loss reserve review, the
ground-up claim projections included all accident years through
2006, and included stock options backdating-related exposures
from accident year 2006. Accident year 2006 reserves developed
favorably notwithstanding the effect of claims relating to stock
options backdating, which totaled approximately
$300 million. Further, AIG is closely monitoring claims
activity in accident year 2007 relating to the
U.S. residential mortgage market, consistent with the
manner in which claims relating to stock options backdating were
monitored

AIG 2007
Form  10-K          
51 

Table of Contents   

American International Group, Inc. and Subsidiaries

Management s Discussion and Analysis of 

Financial Condition and Results of
Operations    Continued  

in 2006, and believes that its reserves as of December 31,
2007 are adequate for its D&O and related management
liability classes of business.

Loss reserves pertaining to D&O and related management
liability classes of business are included in the other
liability claims made line of business, as presented in the
table above.

Excess Workers Compensation:  This class of business
experienced significant adverse development in 2005, a
relatively minor amount of adverse development in 2006, and a
minor amount of favorable development in 2007. The adverse
development in 2005 related to 2002 and prior accident years.
This adverse development resulted primarily from significant
loss cost increases, primarily attributable to rapidly
increasing medical inflation and advances in medical care, which
increased the cost of covered medical care and extended the life
span of severely injured workers. The effect of these factors on
excess workers compensation claims experience is leveraged, as
frequency is increased by the rising number of claims that reach
the excess layers.

In response to the significantly adverse loss development in
2005, an additional study was conducted for the
2005 year-end actuarial reserve analysis for DBG pertaining
to the selection of loss development factors for this class of
business. Claims for excess workers compensation exhibit an
exceptionally long-tail of loss development, running for decades
from the date the loss is incurred. Thus, the adequacy of loss
reserves for this class is sensitive to the estimated loss
development factors, as such factors may be applied to many
years of loss experience. In order to better estimate the tail
development for this class, AIG claims staff conducted a
claim-by-claim projection of the expected ultimate paid loss for
each open claim for 1998 and prior accident years as these are
the primary years from which the tail factors are derived. The
objective of the study was to provide a benchmark against which
loss development factors in the tail could be evaluated. The
resulting loss development factors utilized by the actuaries in
the year-end 2005 study reflected an increase of approximately
18 percent from the factors used in the prior year study
without the benefit of the claims benchmark. In addition, the
loss cost trend assumption for excess workers compensation was
increased from approximately 2.5 percent to 6 percent
for the 2005 study.

For the year-end 2006 loss reserve review, AIG claims staff
updated the claim-by-claim projection for each open claim for
accident years 1999 and prior. These updated claims projections
were utilized by the actuaries as a benchmark for loss
development factors in the year-end 2006 study. AIG s
actuaries determined that no significant changes in the
assumptions were required. Prior accident year development in
2006 was adverse by approximately $70 million, a relatively
minor amount for this class.

For the year-end 2007 loss reserve review, AIG claims staff
again updated the
 claim-by-claim 
projection for each open claim for accident years 2000 and
prior. These updated claims projections were utilized by the
actuaries as a benchmark for loss development factors in the
year-end 2007 study. AIG s actuaries determined that no
significant changes in the assumptions were required. Prior
accident year development in 2007 was favorable by approximately
$15 million, an insignificant amount for this class.

Overview of Loss Reserving
Process  

The General Insurance loss reserves can generally be categorized
into two distinct groups. One group is short-tail classes of
business consisting principally of property, personal lines and
certain casualty classes. The other group is long-tail casualty
classes of business which includes excess and umbrella
liability, D&O, professional liability, medical malpractice,
workers compensation, general liability, products liability, and
related classes.

Short-Tail Reserves

For operations writing short-tail coverages, such as property
coverages, the process of recording quarterly loss reserves is
generally geared toward maintaining an appropriate reserve for
the outstanding exposure, rather than determining an expected
loss ratio for current business. For example, the IBNR reserve
required for a class of property business might be expected to
approximate 20 percent of the latest year s earned
premiums, and this level of reserve would generally be
maintained regardless of the loss ratio emerging in the current
quarter. The 20 percent factor would be adjusted to reflect
changes in rate levels, loss reporting patterns, known exposure
to unreported losses, or other factors affecting the particular
class of business.

Long-Tail Reserves

Estimation of ultimate net losses and loss expenses (net losses)
for long-tail casualty classes of business is a complex process
and depends on a number of factors, including the class and
volume of business involved. Experience in the more recent
accident years of long-tail casualty classes of business shows
limited statistical credibility in reported net losses because a
relatively low proportion of net losses would be reported claims
and expenses and an even smaller percentage would be net losses
paid. Therefore, IBNR would constitute a relatively high
proportion of net losses.

AIG s carried net long-tail loss reserves are tested using
loss trend factors that AIG considers appropriate for each class
of business. A variety of actuarial methods and assumptions is
normally employed to estimate net losses for long-tail casualty
classes of businesses. These methods ordinarily involve the use
of loss trend factors intended to reflect the annual growth in
loss costs from one accident year to the next. For the majority
of long-tail casualty classes of business, net loss trend
factors approximated five percent. Loss trend factors reflect
many items including changes in claims handling, exposure and
policy forms, current and future estimates of monetary inflation
and social inflation and increases in litigation and awards.
These factors are periodically reviewed and adjusted, as
appropriate, to reflect emerging trends which are based upon
past loss experience. Thus, many factors are implicitly
considered in estimating the year to year growth in loss costs.

52         AIG
2007 Form  10-K 

Table of Contents   

American International Group, Inc. and Subsidiaries

A number of actuarial assumptions are generally made in the
review of reserves for each class of business. For longer tail
classes of business, actuarial assumptions generally are made
with respect to the following:

Loss trend factors which are used to establish expected loss
    ratios for subsequent accident years based on the projected loss
    ratio for prior accident years. 

Expected loss ratios for the latest accident year (i.e.,
    accident year 2007 for the year-end 2007 loss reserve analysis)
    and, in some cases for accident years prior to the latest
    accident year. The expected loss ratio generally reflects the
    projected loss ratio from prior accident years, adjusted for the
    loss trend (see above) and the effect of rate changes and other
    quantifiable factors on the loss ratio. For low-frequency,
    high-severity classes such as excess casualty, expected loss
    ratios generally are used for at least the three most recent
    accident years. 

Loss development factors which are used to project the reported
    losses for each accident year to an ultimate basis. Generally,
    the actual loss development factors observed from prior accident
    years would be used as a basis to determine the loss development
    factors for the subsequent accident years. 

AIG records quarterly changes in loss reserves for each of its
many General Insurance classes of business. The overall change
in AIG s loss reserves is based on the sum of these classes
of business changes. For most long-tail classes of business, the
process of recording quarterly loss reserve changes involves
determining the estimated current loss ratio for each class of
coverage. This loss ratio is multiplied by the current
quarter s net earned premium for that class of coverage to
determine the current accident quarter s total estimated
net incurred loss and loss expense. The change in loss reserves
for the quarter for each class is thus the difference between
the net incurred loss and loss expense, estimated as described
above, and the net paid losses and loss expenses in the quarter.
Also any change in estimated ultimate losses from prior accident
years, either positive or negative, is reflected in the loss
reserve for the current quarter.

Details of the Loss Reserving
Process  

The process of determining the current loss ratio for each class
of business is based on a variety of factors. These include, but
are not limited to, the following considerations: prior accident
year and policy year loss ratios; rate changes; changes in
coverage, reinsurance, or mix of business; and actual and
anticipated changes in external factors affecting results, such
as trends in loss costs or in the legal and claims environment.
The current loss ratio for each class of business reflects input
from actuarial, underwriting and claims staff and is intended to
represent management s best estimate of the current loss
ratio after reflecting all of the factors described above. At
the close of each quarter, the assumptions underlying the loss
ratios are reviewed to determine if the loss ratios based
thereon remain appropriate. This process includes a review of
the actual claims experience in the quarter, actual rate changes
achieved, actual changes in coverage, reinsurance or mix of
business, and changes in certain other factors that may affect
the loss ratio. When this review suggests that the initially
determined loss ratio is no longer appropriate, the loss ratio
for current business is changed to reflect the revised
assumptions.

A comprehensive annual loss reserve review is completed in the
fourth quarter of each year for each AIG general insurance
subsidiary. These reviews are conducted in full detail for each
class of business for each subsidiary, and thus consist of
hundreds of individual analyses. The purpose of these reviews is
to confirm the appropriateness of the reserves carried by each
of the individual subsidiaries, and therefore of AIG s
overall carried reserves. The reserve analysis for each class of
business is performed by the actuarial personnel who are most
familiar with that class of business. In completing these
detailed actuarial reserve analyses, the actuaries are required
to make numerous assumptions, including the selection of loss
development factors and loss cost trend factors. They are also
required to determine and select the most appropriate actuarial
methods to employ for each business class. Additionally, they
must determine the appropriate segmentation of data from which
the adequacy of the reserves can be most accurately tested. In
the course of these detailed reserve reviews a point estimate of
the loss reserve is determined. The sum of these point estimates
for each class of business for each subsidiary provides an
overall actuarial point estimate of the loss reserve for that
subsidiary. The ultimate process by which the actual carried
reserves are determined considers both the actuarial point
estimate and numerous other internal and external factors
including a qualitative assessment of inflation and other
economic conditions in the United States and abroad, changes in
the legal, regulatory, judicial and social environment,
underlying policy pricing, terms and conditions, and claims
handling. Loss reserve development can also be affected by
commutations of assumed and ceded reinsurance agreements.

Actuarial Methods for Major Classes of Business

In testing the reserves for each class of business, a
determination is made by AIG s actuaries as to the most
appropriate actuarial methods. This determination is based on a
variety of factors including the nature of the claims associated
with the class of business, such as frequency or severity. Other
factors considered include the loss development characteristics
associated with the claims, the volume of claim data available
for the applicable class, and the applicability of various
actuarial methods to the class. In addition to determining the
actuarial methods, the actuaries determine the appropriate loss
reserve groupings of data. For example, AIG writes a great
number of unique subclasses of professional liability. For
pricing or other purposes, it is appropriate to evaluate the
profitability of each subclass individually. However, for
purposes of estimating the loss reserves for professional
liability, it is appropriate to combine the subclasses into
larger groups. The greater degree of credibility in the claims
experience of the larger groups may outweigh the greater degree
of homogeneity of the individual subclasses. This determination
of data segmentation and actuarial methods is carefully
considered for each class of business. The segmentation and
actuarial methods chosen are those which together are expected
to produce the most accurate estimate of the loss reserves.

AIG 2007
Form  10-K          
53 

Table of Contents   

American International Group, Inc. and Subsidiaries

Management s Discussion and Analysis of 

Financial Condition and Results of
Operations    Continued  

Actuarial methods used by AIG for most long-tail casualty
classes of business include loss development methods and
expected loss ratio methods, including  Bornhuetter
Ferguson  methods described below. Other methods considered
include frequency/severity methods, although these are generally
used by AIG more for pricing analysis than for loss reserve
analysis. Loss development methods utilize the actual loss
development patterns from prior accident years to project the
reported losses to an ultimate basis for subsequent accident
years. Loss development methods generally are most appropriate
for classes of business which exhibit a stable pattern of loss
development from one accident year to the next, and for which
the components of the classes have similar development
characteristics. For example, property exposures would generally
not be combined into the same class as casualty exposures, and
primary casualty exposures would generally not be combined into
the same class as excess casualty exposures. Expected loss ratio
methods are generally utilized by AIG where the reported loss
data lacks sufficient credibility to utilize loss development
methods, such as for new classes of business or for long-tail
classes at early stages of loss development.

Expected loss ratio methods rely on the application of an
expected loss ratio to the earned premium for the class of
business to determine the loss reserves. For example, an
expected loss ratio of 70 percent applied to an earned
premium base of $10 million for a class of business would
generate an ultimate loss estimate of $7 million.
Subtracting any reported paid losses and loss expense would
result in the indicated loss reserve for this class.
 Bornhuetter Ferguson  methods are expected loss ratio
methods for which the expected loss ratio is applied only to the
expected unreported portion of the losses. For example, for a
long-tail class of business for which only 10 percent of
the losses are expected to be reported at the end of the
accident year, the expected loss ratio would be applied to the
90 percent of the losses still unreported. The actual
reported losses at the end of the accident year would be added
to determine the total ultimate loss estimate for the accident
year. Subtracting the reported paid losses and loss expenses
would result in the indicated loss reserve. In the example
above, the expected loss ratio of 70 percent would be
multiplied by 90 percent. The result of 63 percent
would be applied to the earned premium of $10 million
resulting in an estimated unreported loss of $6.3 million.
Actual reported losses would be added to arrive at the total
ultimate losses. If the reported losses were $1 million,
the ultimate loss estimate under the  Bornhuetter
Ferguson  method would be $7.3 million versus the
$7 million amount under the expected loss ratio method
described above. Thus, the  Bornhuetter Ferguson 
method gives partial credibility to the actual loss experience
to date for the class of business. Loss development methods
generally give full credibility to the reported loss experience
to date. In the example above, loss development methods would
typically indicate an ultimate loss estimate of
$10 million, as the reported losses of $1 million
would be estimated to reflect only 10 percent of the
ultimate losses.

A key advantage of loss development methods is that they respond
quickly to any actual changes in loss costs for the class of
business. Therefore, if loss experience is unexpectedly
deteriorating or improving, the loss development method gives
full credibility to the changing experience. Expected loss ratio
methods would be slower to respond to the change, as they would
continue to give more weight to the expected loss ratio, until
enough evidence emerged for the expected loss ratio to be
modified to reflect the changing loss experience. On the other
hand, loss development methods have the disadvantage of
overreacting to changes in reported losses if in fact the loss
experience is not credible. For example, the presence or absence
of large losses at the early stages of loss development could
cause the loss development method to overreact to the favorable
or unfavorable experience by assuming it will continue at later
stages of development. In these instances, expected loss ratio
methods such as  Bornhuetter Ferguson  have the
advantage of properly recognizing large losses without
extrapolating unusual large loss activity onto the unreported
portion of the losses for the accident year. AIG s loss
reserve reviews for long-tail classes typically utilize a
combination of both loss development and expected loss ratio
methods. Loss development methods are generally given more
weight for accident years and classes of business where the loss
experience is highly credible. Expected loss ratio methods are
given more weight where the reported loss experience is less
credible, or is driven more by large losses. Expected loss ratio
methods require sufficient information to determine the
appropriate expected loss ratio. This information generally
includes the actual loss ratios for prior accident years, and
rate changes as well as underwriting or other changes which
would affect the loss ratio. Further, an estimate of the loss
cost trend or loss ratio trend is required in order to allow for
the effect of inflation and other factors which may increase or
otherwise change the loss costs from one accident year to the
next.

Frequency/severity methods generally rely on the determination
of an ultimate number of claims and an average severity for each
claim for each accident year. Multiplying the estimated ultimate
number of claims for each accident year by the expected average
severity of each claim produces the estimated ultimate loss for
the accident year. Frequency/severity methods generally require
a sufficient volume of claims in order for the average severity
to be predictable. Average severity for subsequent accident
years is generally determined by applying an estimated annual
loss cost trend to the estimated average claim severity from
prior accident years. Frequency/severity methods have the
advantage that ultimate claim counts can generally be estimated
more quickly and accurately than can ultimate losses. Thus, if
the average claim severity can be accurately estimated, these
methods can more quickly respond to changes in loss experience
than other methods. However, for average severity to be
predictable, the class of business must consist of homogeneous
types of claims for which loss severity trends from one year to
the next are reasonably consistent. Generally these methods work
best for high frequency, low severity classes of business such
as personal auto. AIG also utilizes these methods in pricing
subclasses of professional liability. However, AIG does not
generally utilize

54         AIG
2007 Form  10-K 

Table of Contents   

American International Group, Inc. and Subsidiaries

frequency/severity methods to test loss reserves, due to the
general nature of AIG s reserves being applicable to lower
frequency, higher severity commercial classes of business where
average claim severity is volatile.

Excess Casualty:  AIG generally uses a combination of loss
development methods and expected loss ratio methods for excess
casualty classes. Expected loss ratio methods are generally
utilized for at least the three latest accident years, due to
the relatively low credibility of the reported losses. The loss
experience is generally reviewed separately for lead umbrella
classes and for other excess classes, due to the relatively
shorter tail for lead umbrella business. Automobile-related
claims are generally reviewed separately from non-auto claims,
due to the shorter tail nature of the automobile related claims.
The expected loss ratios utilized for recent accident years are
based on the projected ultimate loss ratios of prior years,
adjusted for rate changes, estimated loss cost trends and all
other changes that can be quantified. The estimated loss cost
trend utilized in the year-end 2007 reviews averaged
approximately five percent for excess casualty classes.
Frequency/severity methods are generally not utilized as the
vast majority of reported claims do not result in a claim
payment. In addition, the average severity varies significantly
from accident year to accident year due to large losses which
characterize this class of business, as well as changing
proportions of claims which do not result in a claim payment.

D&O:  AIG generally utilizes a combination of loss
development methods and expected loss ratio methods for D&O
and related management liability classes of business. Expected
loss ratio methods are given more weight in the two most recent
accident years, whereas loss development methods are given more
weight in more mature accident years. Beginning with the
year-end 2005 loss reserve review, AIG s actuaries began to
utilize claim projections provided by AIG claims staff as a
benchmark for determining the indicated ultimate losses for
accident years 2004 and prior. For the year end 2007 loss
reserve review, claims projections for accident years 2006 and
prior were utilized. In prior years, AIG s actuaries had
utilized these claims projections as a benchmark for
profitability studies for major classes of D&O and related
management liability business. The track record of these claims
projections has indicated a very low margin of error, thus
providing support for their usage as a benchmark in determining
the estimated loss reserve. These classes of business reflect
claims made coverage, and losses are characterized by low
frequency and high severity. Thus, the claim projections can
produce an accurate overall indicator of the ultimate loss
exposure for these classes by identifying and estimating all
large losses. Frequency/severity methods are generally not
utilized for these classes as the overall losses are driven by
large losses more than by claim frequency. Severity trends have
varied significantly from accident year to accident year.

Workers Compensation:  AIG generally utilizes loss
development methods for all but the most recent accident year.
Expected loss ratio methods generally are given significant
weight only in the most recent accident year. Workers
compensation claims are generally characterized by high
frequency, low severity, and relatively consistent loss
development from one accident year to the next. AIG is a leading
writer of workers compensation, and thus has sufficient volume
of claims experience to utilize development methods. AIG does
not believe frequency/severity methods are as appropriate, due
to significant growth and changes in AIG s workers
compensation business over the years. AIG generally segregates
California business from other business in evaluating workers
compensation reserves. Certain classes of workers compensation,
such as construction, are also evaluated separately.
Additionally, AIG writes a number of very large accounts which
include workers compensation coverage. These accounts are
generally priced by AIG actuaries, and to the extent
appropriate, the indicated losses based on the pricing analysis
may be utilized to record the initial estimated loss reserves
for these accounts.

Excess Workers Compensation:  AIG generally utilizes a
combination of loss development methods and expected loss ratio
methods. Loss development methods are given the greater weight
for mature accident years such as 2001 and prior. Expected loss
ratio methods are given the greater weight for the more recent
accident years. Excess workers compensation is an extremely
long-tail class of business, with loss emergence extending for
decades. Therefore there is limited credibility in the reported
losses for many of the more recent accident years. Beginning
with the year-end 2005 loss reserve review, AIG s actuaries
began to utilize claims projections provided by AIG claims staff
to help determine the loss development factors for this class of
business.

General Liability:  AIG generally uses a combination of
loss development methods and expected loss ratio methods for
primary general liability or products liability classes. For
certain classes of business with sufficient loss volume, loss
development methods may be given significant weight for all but
the most recent one or two accident years, whereas for smaller
or more volatile classes of business, loss development methods
may be given limited weight for the five or more most recent
accident years. Expected loss ratio methods would be utilized
for the more recent accident years for these classes. The loss
experience for primary general liability business is generally
reviewed at a level that is believed to provide the most
appropriate data for reserve analysis. For example, primary
claims made business is generally segregated from business
written on an occurrence policy form. Additionally, certain
subclasses, such as construction, are generally reviewed
separately from business in other subclasses. Due to the fairly
long-tail nature of general liability business, and the many
subclasses that are reviewed individually, there is less
credibility in the reported losses and increased reliance on
expected loss ratio methods. AIG s actuaries generally do
not utilize frequency/severity methods to test reserves for this
business, due to significant changes and growth in AIG s
general liability and products liability business over the years.

Commercial Automobile Liability:  AIG generally utilizes
loss development methods for all but the most recent accident
year for commercial automobile classes of business. Expected
loss ratio methods are generally given significant weight only
in the most recent accident year. Frequency/severity methods are
generally

AIG 2007
Form  10-K          
55 

Table of Contents   

American International Group, Inc. and Subsidiaries

Management s Discussion and Analysis of 

Financial Condition and Results of
Operations    Continued  

not utilized due to significant changes and growth in this
business over the years.

Healthcare:  AIG generally uses a combination of loss
development methods and expected loss ratio methods for
healthcare classes of business. The largest component of the
healthcare business consists of coverage written for hospitals
and other healthcare facilities. Reserves for excess coverage
are tested separately from those for primary coverage. For
primary coverages, loss development methods are generally given
the majority of the weight for all but the latest three accident
years, and are given some weight for all years other than the
latest accident year. For excess coverages, expected loss
methods are generally given all the weight for the latest three
accident years, and are also given considerable weight for
accident years prior to the latest three years. For other
classes of healthcare coverage, an analogous weighting between
loss development and expected loss ratio methods is utilized.
The weights assigned to each method are those which are believed
to result in the best combination of responsiveness and
stability. Frequency/severity methods are sometimes utilized for
pricing certain healthcare accounts or business. However, in
testing loss reserves the business is generally combined into
larger groupings to enhance the credibility of the loss
experience. The frequency/severity methods that are applicable
in pricing may not be appropriate for reserve testing and thus
frequency/severity methods are not generally employed in
AIG s healthcare reserve analyses.

Professional Liability:  AIG generally uses a combination
of loss development methods and expected loss ratio methods for
professional liability classes of business. Loss development
methods are used for the more mature accident years. Greater
weight is given to expected loss ratio methods in the more
recent accident years. Reserves are tested separately for claims
made classes and classes written on occurrence policy forms.
Further segmentations are made in a manner believed to provide
an appropriate balance between credibility and homogeneity of
the data. Frequency/severity methods are used in pricing and
profitability analyses for some classes of professional
liability; however, for loss reserve testing, the need to
enhance credibility generally results in classes that are not
sufficiently homogenous to utilize frequency/severity methods.

Catastrophic Casualty:  AIG utilizes expected loss ratio
methods for all accident years for catastrophic casualty
business. This class of business consists of casualty or
financial lines coverage which attaches in excess of very high
attachment points; thus the claims experience is marked by very
low frequency and high severity. Because of the limited number
of claims, loss development methods are not utilized. The
expected loss ratios and loss development assumptions utilized
are based upon the results of prior accident years for this
business as well as for similar classes of business written
above lower attachment points. The business is generally written
on a claims made basis. AIG utilizes ground-up claim projections
provided by AIG claims staff to assist in developing the
appropriate reserve.

Aviation:  AIG generally uses a combination of loss
development methods and expected loss ratio methods for aviation
exposures. Aviation claims are not very long-tail in nature;
however, they are driven by claim severity. Thus a combination
of both development and expected loss ratio methods are used for
all but the latest accident year to determine the loss reserves.
Expected loss ratio methods are used to determine the loss
reserves for the latest accident year. Frequency/severity
methods are not employed due to the high severity nature of the
claims and different mix of claims from year to year.

Personal Auto (Domestic):  AIG generally utilizes
frequency/severity methods and loss development methods for
domestic personal auto classes. For many classes of business,
greater reliance is placed on frequency/severity methods as
claim counts emerge quickly for personal auto and allow for more
immediate analysis of resulting loss trends and comparisons to
industry and other diagnostic metrics.

Fidelity/ Surety:  AIG generally uses loss development
methods for fidelity exposures for all but the latest accident
year. Expected loss ratio methods are also given weight for the
more recent accident years, and for the latest accident year
they may be given 100 percent weight. For surety exposures,
AIG generally uses the same method as for short-tail classes.

Mortgage Guaranty:  AIG tests mortgage guaranty reserves
using loss development methods, supplemented by an internal
claim analysis by actuaries and staff who specialize in the
mortgage guaranty business. The claim analysis projects ultimate
losses for claims within each of several categories of
delinquency based on actual historical experience and is
essentially a frequency/severity analysis for each category of
delinquency. Additional reserve tests using  Bornhuetter
Ferguson  methods are also employed, as well as tests
measuring losses as a percent of risk in force. Reserves are
reviewed separately for each class of business to consider the
loss development characteristics associated with the claims, the
volume of claim data available for the applicable class and the
applicability of various actuarial methods to the class.

Short-Tail Classes:  AIG generally uses either loss
development methods or IBNR factor methods to set reserves for
short-tail classes such as property coverages. Where a factor is
used, it generally represents a percent of earned premium or
other exposure measure. The factor is determined based on prior
accident year experience. For example, the IBNR for a class of
property coverage might be expected to approximate
20 percent of the latest year s earned premium. The
factor is continually reevaluated in light of emerging claim
experience as well as rate changes or other factors that could
affect the adequacy of the IBNR factor being employed.

International:  Business written by AIG s Foreign
General Insurance sub-segment includes both long-tail and
short-tail classes of business. For long-tail classes of
business, the actuarial methods utilized would be analogous to
those described above. However, the majority of business written
by Foreign General Insurance is short-tail, high frequency and
low severity in nature. For this business, loss development
methods are generally employed to

56         AIG
2007 Form  10-K 

Table of Contents   

American International Group, Inc. and Subsidiaries

test the loss reserves. AIG maintains a data base of detailed
historical premium and loss transactions in original currency
for business written by Foreign General Insurance, thereby
allowing AIG actuaries to determine the current reserves without
any distortion from changes in exchange rates over time. In
testing the Foreign General Insurance reserves, AIG s
actuaries segment the data by region, country or class of
business as appropriate to determine an optimal balance between
homogeneity and credibility.

Loss Adjustment Expenses:  AIG determines reserves for
legal defense and cost containment loss adjustment expenses for
each class of business by one or more actuarial methods. The
methods generally include development methods analogous to those
described for loss development methods. The developments could
be based on either the paid loss adjustment expenses or the
ratio of paid loss adjustment expenses to paid losses, or both.
Other methods include the utilization of expected ultimate
ratios of paid loss expense to paid losses, based on actual
experience from prior accident years or from similar classes of
business. AIG generally determines reserves for adjuster loss
adjustment expenses based on calendar year ratios of adjuster
expenses paid to losses paid for the particular class of
business. AIG generally determines reserves for other
unallocated loss adjustment expenses based on the ratio of the
calendar year expenses paid to overall losses paid. This
determination is generally done for all classes of business
combined, and reflects costs of home office claim overhead as a
percent of losses paid.

Catastrophes:  Special analyses are conducted by AIG in
response to major catastrophes in order to estimate AIG s
gross and net loss and loss expense liability from the events.
These analyses may include a combination of approaches,
including modeling estimates, ground up claim analysis, loss
evaluation reports from on-site field adjusters, and market
share estimates.

AIG s loss reserve analyses do not calculate a range of
loss reserve estimates. Because a large portion of the loss
reserves from AIG s General Insurance business relates to
longer-tail casualty classes of business driven by severity
rather than frequency of claims, such as excess casualty and
D&O, developing a range around loss reserve estimates would
not be meaningful. Using the reserving methodologies described
above, AIG s actuaries determine their best estimate of the
required reserve and advise Management of that amount. AIG then
adjusts its aggregate carried reserves as necessary so that the
actual carried reserves as of December 31 reflect this best
estimate.

Volatility of Reserve Estimates and Sensitivity Analyses

As described above, AIG uses numerous assumptions in determining
its best estimate of reserves for each class of business. The
importance of any specific assumption can vary by both class of
business and accident year. If actual experience differs from
key assumptions used in establishing reserves, there is
potential for significant variation in the development of loss
reserves, particularly for long-tail casualty classes of
business such as excess casualty, D&O or workers
compensation. Set forth below is a sensitivity analysis that
estimates the effect on the loss reserve position of using
alternative loss trend or loss development factor assumptions
rather than those actually used in determining AIG s best
estimates in the year-end loss reserve analyses in 2007. The
analysis addresses each major class of business for which a
material deviation to AIG s overall reserve position is
believed reasonably possible, and uses what AIG believes is a
reasonably likely range of potential deviation for each class.
There can be no assurance, however, that actual reserve
development will be consistent with either the original or the
adjusted loss trend or loss development factor assumptions, or
that other assumptions made in the reserving process will not
materially affect reserve development for a particular class of
business.

Excess Casualty:  For the excess casualty class of
business, the assumed loss cost trend was approximately five
percent. After evaluating the historical loss cost trends from
prior accident years since the early 1990s, in AIG s
judgment, it is reasonably likely that actual loss cost trends
applicable to the year-end 2007 loss reserve review for excess
casualty will range from negative five percent to positive
15 percent, or approximately ten percent lower or higher
than the assumption actually utilized in the year-end 2007
reserve review. A ten percent change in the assumed loss cost
trend for excess casualty would cause approximately a
$2.4 billion increase or a $1.6 billion decrease in
the net loss and loss expense reserve for this class of
business. It should be emphasized that the ten percent
deviations are not considered the highest possible deviations
that might be expected, but rather what is considered by AIG to
reflect a reasonably likely range of potential deviation. Actual
loss cost trends in the early 1990s were negative for several
years, including amounts below the negative five percent cited
above, whereas actual loss cost trends in the late 1990s ran
well into the double digits for several years, including amounts
greater than the 15 percent cited above. Thus, there can be
no assurance that loss trends will not deviate by more than ten
percent. The loss cost trend assumption is critical for the
excess casualty class of business due the long-tail nature of
the claims and therefore is applied across many accident years.

For the excess casualty class of business, the assumed loss
development factors are also a key assumption. After evaluating
the historical loss development factors from prior accident
years since the early 1990s, in AIG s judgment, it is
reasonably likely that actual loss development factors will
range from approximately 3.5 percent below those actually
utilized in the year-end 2007 reserve review to approximately
6.5 percent above those factors actually utilized. If the
loss development factor assumptions were changed by
3.5 percent and 6.5 percent, respectively, the net
loss reserves for the excess casualty class would decrease by
approximately $600 million under the lower assumptions or
increase by approximately $1.0 billion under the higher
assumptions. Generally, actual historical loss development
factors are used to project future loss development. However
there can be no assurance that future loss development patterns
will be the same as in the past, or that they will not deviate
by more than the amounts illustrated above. Moreover, as excess
casualty is a long-tail class of business, any deviation in loss
cost trends or in loss development factors might not be
discernible for an extended

AIG 2007
Form  10-K          
57 

Table of Contents   

American International Group, Inc. and Subsidiaries

Management s Discussion and Analysis of 

Financial Condition and Results of
Operations    Continued  

period of time subsequent to the recording of the initial loss
reserve estimates for any accident year. Thus, there is the
potential for the reserves with respect to a number of accident
years to be significantly affected by changes in the loss cost
trends or loss development factors that were initially relied
upon in setting the reserves. These changes in loss trends or
loss development factors could be attributable to changes in
inflation or in the judicial environment, or in other social or
economic conditions affecting claims. Thus, there is the
potential for variations greater than the amounts cited above,
either positively or negatively.

D&O and Related Management Liability Classes of
Business:  For D&O and related management liability
classes of business, the assumed loss cost trend was
approximately four percent. After evaluating the historical loss
cost trends from prior accident years since the early 1990s, in
AIG s judgment, it is reasonably likely that actual loss
cost trends applicable to the year-end 2007 loss reserve review
for these classes will range from negative 11 percent to
positive 19 percent, or approximately 15 percent lower
or higher than the assumption actually utilized in the year-end
2007 reserve review. A 15 percent change in the assumed
loss cost trend for these classes would cause approximately a
$550 million increase or a $500 million decrease in
the net loss and loss expense reserves for these classes of
business. It should be emphasized that the 15 percent
deviations are not considered the highest possible deviations
that might be expected, but rather what is considered by AIG to
reflect a reasonably likely range of potential deviation. Actual
loss cost trends for these classes in the early 1990s were
negative for several years, including amounts below the negative
11 percent cited above, whereas actual loss cost trends in
the late 1990s ran at nearly 50 percent per year for several
years, vastly exceeding the 19 percent figure cited above.
Because the D&O class of business has exhibited highly
volatile loss trends from one accident year to the next, there
is the possibility of an exceptionally high deviation.

For D&O and related management liability classes of
business, the assumed loss development factors are also an
important assumption but less critical than for excess casualty.
Because these classes are written on a claims made basis, the
loss reporting and development tail is much shorter than for
excess casualty. However, the high severity nature of the claims
does create the potential for significant deviations in loss
development patterns from one year to the next. After evaluating
the historical loss development factors for these classes of
business for accident years since the early 1990s, in AIG s
judgment, it is reasonably likely that actual loss development
factors will range approximately 6 percent lower to
3.5 percent higher than those factors actually utilized in
the year-end 2007 loss reserve review for these classes. If the
loss development factor assumptions were changed by
6 percent and 3.5 percent, respectively, the net loss
reserves for these classes would be estimated to decrease or
increase by approximately $250 million and
$125 million, respectively. As noted above for excess
casualty, actual historical loss development factors are
generally used to project future loss development. However,
there can be no assurance that future loss development patterns
will be the same as in the past, or that they will not deviate
by more than the 6 percent or 3.5 percent amounts.

Excess Workers Compensation:  For excess workers
compensation business, loss costs were trended at six percent
per annum. After reviewing actual industry loss trends for the
past ten years, in AIG s judgment, it is reasonably likely
that actual loss cost trends applicable to the year-end 2007
loss reserve review for excess workers compensation will range
five percent lower or higher than this estimated loss trend. A
five percent change in the assumed loss cost trend would cause
approximately a $425 million increase or a
$275 million decrease in the net loss reserves for this
business. It should be emphasized that the actual loss cost
trend could vary significantly from this assumption, and there
can be no assurance that actual loss costs will not deviate,
perhaps materially, by greater than five percent.

For excess workers compensation business, the assumed loss
development factors are a critical assumption. Excess workers
compensation is an extremely long-tail class of business, with a
much greater than normal uncertainty as to the appropriate loss
development factors for the tail of the loss development. After
evaluating the historical loss development factors for prior
accident years since the 1980s, in AIG s judgment, it is
reasonably likely that actual loss development factors will
range approximately 15 percent lower or higher than those
factors actually utilized in the year-end 2007 loss reserve
review for excess workers compensation. If the loss development
factor assumptions were changed by 15 percent, the net loss
reserves for excess workers compensation would increase or
decrease by approximately $600 million. Given the
exceptionally long-tail for this class of business, there is the
potential for actual deviations in the loss development tail to
exceed the deviations assumed, perhaps materially.

Primary Workers Compensation:  For primary workers
compensation, the loss cost trend assumption is not believed to
be material with respect to AIG s loss reserves. This is
primarily because AIG s actuaries are generally able to use
loss development projections for all but the most recent
accident year s reserves, so there is limited need to rely
on loss cost trend assumptions for primary workers compensation
business.

However, for primary workers compensation business the loss
development factor assumptions are important. Generally,
AIG s actual historical workers compensation loss
development factors would be expected to provide a reasonably
accurate predictor of future loss development. However, workers
compensation is a long-tail class of business, and AIG s
business reflects a very significant volume of losses
particularly in recent accident years due to growth of the
business. After evaluating the actual historical loss
developments since the 1980s for this business, in AIG s
judgment, it is reasonably likely that actual loss development
factors will fall within the range of approximately 3.5 percent
below to 8.25 percent above those actually utilized in the
year-end 2007 loss reserve review. If the loss development
factor assumptions were changed by 3.5 percent and
8.25 percent, respectively, the net loss reserves for
workers compensation

58         AIG
2007 Form  10-K 

Table of Contents   

American International Group, Inc. and Subsidiaries

would decrease or increase by approximately $800 million
and $1.9 billion, respectively. It should be noted that
loss emergence in 2006 and 2007 for this class was higher than
historical averages, resulting in an increase in loss reserves
for prior accident years. During 2007, reserves from prior
accident years developed adversely by approximately
$300 million for AIG s primary workers compensation
business. AIG relies on longer term averages of historical loss
development patterns in setting loss reserves; thus if loss
emergence in subsequent years continues at the levels observed
in 2006 and 2007 there could be additional adverse development
for this class of business that could be more significant than
the amount observed in 2007. However, AIG believes it is too
soon to ascertain if this increased emergence represents a new
trend in the pattern of loss development. For this class of
business, there can be no assurance that actual deviations from
the expected loss development factors will not exceed the
deviations assumed, perhaps materially.

Other Casualty Classes of Business:  For casualty business
other than the classes discussed above, there is generally some
potential for deviation in both the loss cost trend and loss
development factor assumptions. However, the effect of such
deviations is expected to be less material when compared to the
effect on the classes cited above.

Asbestos and Environmental
Reserves  

The estimation of loss reserves relating to asbestos and
environmental claims on insurance policies written many years
ago is subject to greater uncertainty than other types of claims
due to inconsistent court decisions as well as judicial
interpretations and legislative actions that in some cases have
tended to broaden coverage beyond the original intent of such
policies and in others have expanded theories of liability. The
insurance industry as a whole is engaged in extensive litigation
over these coverage and liability issues and is thus confronted
with a continuing uncertainty in its efforts to quantify these
exposures.

AIG continues to receive claims asserting injuries and damages
from toxic waste, hazardous substances, and other environmental
pollutants and alleged claims to cover the cleanup costs of
hazardous waste dump sites, referred to collectively as
environmental claims, and indemnity claims asserting injuries
from asbestos.

The vast majority of these asbestos and environmental claims
emanate from policies written in 1984 and prior years.
Commencing in 1985, standard policies contained an absolute
exclusion for pollution-related damage and an absolute asbestos
exclusion was also implemented. The current environmental
policies that AIG underwrites on a claims-made basis have been
excluded from the analysis herein.

The majority of AIG s exposures for asbestos and
environmental claims are excess casualty coverages, not primary
coverages. Thus, the litigation costs are treated in the same
manner as indemnity amounts. That is, litigation expenses are
included within the limits of the liability AIG incurs.
Individual significant claim liabilities, where future
litigation costs are reasonably determinable, are established on
a case-by-case basis.

Estimation of asbestos and environmental claims loss reserves is
a subjective process and reserves for asbestos and environmental
claims cannot be estimated using conventional reserving
techniques such as those that rely on historical accident year
loss development factors. The methods used to determine asbestos
and environmental loss estimates and to establish the resulting
reserves are continually reviewed and updated by management.

Significant factors which affect the trends that influence the
asbestos and environmental claims estimation process are the
court resolutions and judicial interpretations which broaden the
intent of the policies and scope of coverage. The current case
law can be characterized as still evolving, and there is little
likelihood that any firm direction will develop in the near
future. Additionally, the exposures for cleanup costs of
hazardous waste dump sites involve issues such as allocation of
responsibility among potentially responsible parties and the
government s refusal to release parties from liability.

Due to this uncertainty, it is not possible to determine the
future development of asbestos and environmental claims with the
same degree of reliability as with other types of claims. Such
future development will be affected by the extent to which
courts continue to expand the intent of the policies and the
scope of the coverage, as they have in the past, as well as by
the changes in Superfund and waste dump site coverage and
liability issues. If the asbestos and environmental reserves
develop deficiently, such deficiency would have an adverse
effect on AIG s future results of operations.

With respect to known asbestos and environmental claims, AIG
established over a decade ago specialized toxic tort and
environmental claims units, which investigate and adjust all
such asbestos and environmental claims. These units evaluate
these asbestos and environmental claims utilizing a
claim-by-claim approach that involves a detailed review of
individual policy terms and exposures. Because each policyholder
presents different liability and coverage issues, AIG generally
evaluates exposure on a policy-by-policy basis, considering a
variety of factors such as known facts, current law,
jurisdiction, policy language and other factors that are unique
to each policy. Quantitative techniques have to be supplemented
by subjective considerations, including management judgment.
Each claim is reviewed at least semi-annually utilizing the
aforementioned approach and adjusted as necessary to reflect the
current information.

In both the specialized and dedicated asbestos and environmental
claims units, AIG actively manages and pursues early resolution
with respect to these claims in an attempt to mitigate its
exposure to the unpredictable development of these claims. AIG
attempts to mitigate its known long-tail environmental exposures
by utilizing a combination of proactive claim-resolution
techniques, including policy buybacks, complete environmental
releases, compromise settlements, and, where indicated,
litigation.

With respect to asbestos claims handling, AIG s specialized
claims staff operates to mitigate losses through proactive
handling, supervision and resolution of asbestos cases. Thus,
while AIG has resolved all claims with respect to miners and
major manufacturers (Tier One), its claims staff continues
to operate under the same proactive philosophy to resolve claims
involving accounts with products containing asbestos
(Tier Two), products

AIG 2007
Form  10-K          
59 

Table of Contents   

American International Group, Inc. and Subsidiaries

Management s Discussion and Analysis of 

Financial Condition and Results of
Operations    Continued  

containing small amounts of asbestos, companies in the
distribution process, and parties with remote, ill-defined
involvement in asbestos (Tiers Three and Four). Through its
commitment to appropriate staffing, training, and management
oversight of asbestos cases, AIG seeks to mitigate its exposure
to these claims.

To determine the appropriate loss reserve as of
December 31, 2007 for its asbestos and environmental
exposures, AIG performed a series of top-down and ground-up
reserve analyses. In order to ensure it had the most
comprehensive analysis possible, AIG engaged a third-party
actuary to assist in a review of these exposures, including
ground-up estimates for asbestos reserves consistent with the
2005 and 2006 reviews as well as a top-down report year
projection for environmental reserves. Prior to 2005, AIG s
reserve analyses for asbestos and environmental exposures was
focused around a report year projection of aggregate losses for
both asbestos and environmental reserves. Additional tests such
as market share analyses were also performed. Ground-up analyses
take into account policyholder-specific and claim-specific
information that has been gathered over many years from a
variety of sources. Ground-up studies can thus more accurately
assess the exposure to AIG s layers of coverage for each
policyholder, and hence for all policyholders in the aggregate,
provided a sufficient sample of the policyholders can be modeled
in this manner.

In order to ensure its ground-up analysis was comprehensive, AIG
staff produced the information required at policy and claim
level detail for nearly 1,000 asbestos defendants. This
represented over 95 percent of all accounts for which AIG
had received any claim notice of any amount pertaining to
asbestos exposure. AIG did not set any minimum thresholds, such
as amount of case reserve outstanding, or paid losses to date,
that would have served to reduce the sample size and hence the
comprehensiveness of the ground-up analysis. The results of the
ground-up analysis for each significant account were examined by
AIG s claims staff for reasonableness, for consistency with
policy coverage terms, and any claim settlement terms
applicable. Adjustments were incorporated accordingly. The
results from the universe of modeled accounts, which as noted
above reflects the vast majority of AIG s known exposures,
were then utilized to estimate the ultimate losses from accounts
or exposures that could not be modeled and to determine an
appropriate provision for unreported claims.

AIG conducted a comprehensive analysis of reinsurance
recoverability to establish the appropriate asbestos and
environmental reserve net of reinsurance. AIG determined the
amount of reinsurance that would be ceded to insolvent
reinsurers or to commuted reinsurance contracts for both
reported claims and for IBNR. These amounts were then deducted
from the indicated amount of reinsurance recoverable. The
year-end 2007 analysis reflected an update to the comprehensive
analysis of reinsurance recoverability that was first completed
in 2005 and updated in 2006. All asbestos accounts for which
there was a significant change in estimated losses in the 2007
review were analyzed to determine the appropriate reserve net of
reinsurance.

AIG also completed a top-down report year projection of its
indicated asbestos and environmental loss reserves. These
projections consist of a series of tests performed separately
for asbestos and for environmental exposures.

For asbestos, these tests project the losses expected to be
reported over the next nineteen years, i.e., from 2008 through
2026, based on the actual losses reported through 2007 and the
expected future loss emergence for these claims. Three scenarios
were tested, with a series of assumptions ranging from more
optimistic to more conservative. In the first scenario, all
carried asbestos case reserves are assumed to be within ten
percent of their ultimate settlement value. The second scenario
relies on an actuarial projection of report year development for
asbestos claims reported from 1993 to the present to estimate
case reserve adequacy as of year-end 2007. The third scenario
relies on an actuarial projection of report year claims for
asbestos but reflects claims reported from 1989 to the present
to estimate case reserve adequacy as of year-end 2007. Based on
the results of the prior report years for each of the three
scenarios described above, the report year approach then
projects forward to the year 2026 the expected future report
year losses, based on AIG s estimate of reasonable loss
trend assumptions. These calculations are performed on losses
gross of reinsurance. The IBNR (including a provision for
development of reported claims) on a net basis is based on
applying a factor reflecting the expected ratio of net losses to
gross losses for future loss emergence.

For environmental claims, an analogous series of
frequency/severity tests are produced. Environmental claims from
future report years, (i.e., IBNR) are projected out nine years,
i.e., through the year 2016.

At year-end 2007, AIG considered a number of factors and recent
experience in addition to the results of the respective top-down
and ground-up analyses performed for asbestos and environmental
reserves. AIG considered the significant uncertainty that
remains as to AIG s ultimate liability relating to asbestos
and environmental claims. This uncertainty is due to several
factors including:

The long latency period between asbestos exposure and disease
    manifestation and the resulting potential for involvement of
    multiple policy periods for individual claims; 

The increase in the volume of claims by currently unimpaired
    plaintiffs; 

Claims filed under the non-aggregate premises or operations
    section of general liability policies; 

The number of insureds seeking bankruptcy protection and the
    effect of prepackaged bankruptcies; 

Diverging legal interpretations; and 

With respect to environmental claims, the difficulty in
    estimating the allocation of remediation cost among various
    parties. 

After carefully considering the results of the ground-up
analysis, which AIG updates on an annual basis, as well as all
of the above factors, including the recent report year
experience, AIG increased its gross asbestos reserves by
$75 million, all of which was reinsured, resulting in no
increase to net reserves. Additionally, during 2007 a reduction
in estimated reinsurance recoverable, partially offset by
several large favorable asbestos settlements, resulted in a
minor amount of adverse incurred loss development.

Based on the environmental top-down report year analysis
performed in the fourth quarter of 2007, a minor increase in
both gross and net reserves was recognized, resulting in the
relatively minor amount of development shown in the table below.

60         AIG
2007 Form  10-K 

Table of Contents   

American International Group, Inc. and Subsidiaries

A summary of reserve activity,
including estimates for applicable IBNR, relating to asbestos
and environmental claims separately and combined at
December 31, 2007, 2006 and 2005 appears in the table
below. The vast majority of such claims arise from policies
written in 1984 and prior years. The current environmental
policies that AIG underwrites on a claims-made basis have been
excluded from the table below.  

(a)   
     
     All amounts pertain to policies underwritten in prior years,
    primarily to policies issued in 1984 and prior.  

(b)   
     
     Includes increases to gross losses and loss expense reserves
    of $2.0 billion and increases to net losses and loss
    expense reserves of $843 million for the fourth quarter of
    2005.  

(c)   
     
     Includes increases to gross losses and loss expense reserves
    of $56 million and increases to net losses and loss expense
    reserves of $30 million for the fourth quarter of 2005.  

(d)   
     
     Includes increases to gross losses and loss expense reserves
    of $2.0 billion and increases to net losses and loss
    expense reserves of $873 million for the fourth quarter of
    2005.  

(e)   
     
     Gross amounts were revised from the previous presentation to
    reflect the inclusion of certain reserves not previously
    identified as asbestos and environmental related. This revision
    had no effect on net reserves.  

The gross and net IBNR included in the
reserve for losses and loss expenses, relating to asbestos and
environmental claims separately and combined, at
December 31, 2007, 2006 and 2005 were estimated as
follows:  

*   
     
     Gross amounts were revised from the previous presentation to
    reflect the inclusion of certain reserves not previously
    identified as asbestos and environmental related. This revision
    had no effect on net reserves.  

A summary of asbestos and environmental
claims count activity for the years ended December 31,
2007, 2006 and 2005 was as follows:  

AIG 2007
Form  10-K          
61 

Table of Contents   

American International Group, Inc. and Subsidiaries

Management s Discussion and Analysis of 

Financial Condition and Results of
Operations    Continued  

Survival Ratios   Asbestos and Environmental

The table below presents AIG s survival ratios for asbestos
and environmental claims at December 31, 2007, 2006 and
2005. The survival ratio is derived by dividing the current
carried loss reserve by the average payments for the three most
recent calendar years for these claims. Therefore, the survival
ratio is a simplistic measure estimating the number of years it
would be before the current ending loss reserves for these
claims would be paid off using recent year average payments. The
December 31, 2007 survival ratio is lower than the ratio at
December 31, 2006 because the more recent periods included
in the rolling average reflect higher claims payments. In
addition, AIG s survival ratio for asbestos claims was
negatively affected by the favorable settlements described
above, which reduced gross and net asbestos survival ratios at
December 31, 2007 by approximately 1.3 years and
2.6 years, respectively. Many factors, such as aggressive
settlement procedures, mix of business and level of coverage
provided, have a significant effect on the amount of asbestos
and environmental reserves and payments and the resultant
survival ratio. Moreover, as discussed above, the primary basis
for AIG s determination of its reserves is not survival
ratios, but instead the ground-up and top-down analysis. Thus,
caution should be exercised in attempting to determine reserve
adequacy for these claims based simply on this survival ratio.

AIG s survival ratios for asbestos
and environmental claims, separately and combined were based
upon a three-year average payment. These ratios for the years
ended December 31, 2007, 2006 and 2005 were as
follows:  

*   
     
     Gross amounts for 2006 and 2005 were revised from the
    previous presentation to reflect the inclusion of certain
    reserves not previously identified as asbestos and environmental
    related. This revision had no effect on net reserves.  

Life Insurance & Retirement
Services Operations

AIG s Life Insurance & Retirement Services
operations offer a wide range of insurance and retirement
savings products both domestically and abroad.

AIG s Foreign Life Insurance & Retirement Services
operations include insurance and investment-oriented products
such as whole and term life, investment linked, universal life
and endowments, personal accident and health products, group
products including pension, life and health, and fixed and
variable annuities. The Foreign Life Insurance &
Retirement Services products are sold through independent
producers, career agents, financial institutions and direct
marketing channels.

AIG s Domestic Life Insurance operations offer a broad
range of protection products, such as individual life insurance
and group life and health products, including disability income
products and payout annuities, which include single premium
immediate annuities, structured settlements and terminal funding
annuities. The Domestic Life Insurance products are sold through
independent producers, career agents and financial institutions
and direct marketing channels. Home service operations include
an array of life insurance, accident and health and annuity
products sold primarily through career agents.

AIG s Domestic Retirement Services operations include group
retirement products, individual fixed and variable annuities
sold through banks, broker-dealers and exclusive sales
representatives, and annuity runoff operations, which include
previously acquired  closed blocks  and other fixed
and variable annuities largely sold through distribution
relationships that have been discontinued.

In order to better align financial reporting with the manner in
which AIG s chief operating decision makers manage their
businesses, commencing in 2007, revenues and operating income
related to foreign investment-type contracts, which were
historically reported as a component of the Asset Management
segment, are now reported as part of Foreign Life
Insurance & Retirement Services. Prior period amounts
have been revised to conform to the current presentation.

AIG s Life Insurance & Retirement Services reports
its operations through the following major internal reporting
units and legal entities:

Foreign Life Insurance &
Retirement Services

Japan and Other

American Life Insurance Company (ALICO) 

AIG Star Life Insurance Co., Ltd. (AIG Star Life) 

AIG Edison Life Insurance Company (AIG Edison Life) 

Asia

American International Assurance Company, Limited, together with
    American International Assurance Company (Bermuda) Limited (AIA) 

Nan Shan Life Insurance Company, Ltd. (Nan Shan) 

American International Reinsurance Company Limited (AIRCO) 

The Philippine American Life and General Insurance Company
    (Philamlife) 

Domestic Life Insurance

American General Life Insurance Company (AIG American General) 

The United States Life Insurance Company in the City of New York
    (USLIFE) 

62         AIG
2007 Form  10-K 

Table of Contents   

American International Group, Inc. and Subsidiaries

American General Life and Accident Insurance Company (AGLA) 

Domestic Retirement Services

The Variable Annuity Life Insurance Company (VALIC) 

AIG Annuity Insurance Company (AIG Annuity) 

AIG SunAmerica Life Assurance Company (AIG SunAmerica) 

Life Insurance & Retirement Services Results 

Life Insurance & Retirement
Services results for 2007, 2006 and 2005 were as
follows:  

*   
     
     Included an out of period UCITS adjustment which increased
    net investment income by $240 million and operating income
    by $169 million.  

The following table presents the gross
insurance in force for Life Insurance & Retirement
Services at December 31, 2007, 2006 and 2005:  

2007 and 2006 Comparison  

The severe credit market disruption was a key driver of
operating results in 2007 principally due to significant net
realized capital losses resulting from other-than-temporary
impairment charges of $2.8 billion and losses on derivative
instruments not qualifying for hedge accounting treatment of
$381 million compared to an other-than-temporary impairment
charge of $641 million and gains on derivative instruments
of $268 million in 2006. In addition, net investment income
and certain products were negatively affected by the volatile
markets. Life Insurance & Retirement Services continued its
ongoing project to increase standardization of AIG s
actuarial systems and processes throughout the world.
Significant progress was made on these initiatives, with only a
minimal effect on operating income in this segment. Premiums and
other considerations increased in 2007 compared to 2006 despite
a very competitive marketplace and a relatively flat yield curve
for most of the year.

AIG 2007
Form  10-K          
63 

Table of Contents   

American International Group, Inc. and Subsidiaries

Management s Discussion and Analysis of 

Financial Condition and Results of
Operations    Continued  

Life Insurance & Retirement Services total revenues in 2007
reflect growth in premiums and other considerations compared to
2006 due principally to strong life insurance production in the
Foreign Life Insurance & Retirement Services operations, a
growing block of U.K. single premium investment-oriented
products and higher policyholder charges related to universal
life and sales of payout annuities in the Domestic Life
Insurance operations. Overall growth in premiums and other
considerations was dampened by a continuing shift to interest
sensitive products and the suspension of new sales on certain
products in Japan resulting from an industry wide review by the
tax authorities. Net investment income increased in 2007
compared to 2006 due to higher partnership and mutual fund
income as well as higher policyholder investment income and
trading gains and losses (together, policyholder trading gains).
Policyholder trading gains are offset by a charge to incurred
policy losses and benefits expense. Policyholder trading gains
increased due to higher levels of assets and generally reflect
the trend in equity markets. Policyholder trading gains were
$2.9 billion in 2007 compared to $2.0 billion in 2006.
Net investment income in 2006 included an increase of
$240 million for an out of period adjustment related to the
accounting for UCITS.

Operating income in 2007 was significantly adversely affected by
net realized capital losses which totaled $2.4 billion, net
of an out-of-period adjustment of $158 million related to
foreign exchange remediation activities, compared to net
realized capital gains of $88 million in 2006. Other
factors affecting operating income include trading account
losses of $150 million in the U.K. associated with certain
investment-linked products, the adverse effect of
$108 million related to SOP 05-1, which was adopted in
2007, additional claim expense of $67 million relating to
an industry wide regulatory review of claims in Japan (compared
to additional claim expense of $26 million in 2006) and a
$118 million charge related to remediation activities in
Asia. Incurred policyholder benefits increased $36 million
in 2007 related to a closed block of Japanese business with
guaranteed benefits. Partially offsetting these factors was a
$52 million recovery in 2007 related to the Superior
National arbitration. SOP 05-1 generally requires DAC related to
group contracts to be amortized over a shorter duration than in
prior periods and also requires that DAC be expensed at the time
an individual policy is terminated or lapses, even if reinstated
shortly thereafter. The effect of SOP 05-1 was most significant
to the group products line in the Domestic Life Insurance
operations.

Changes in actuarial estimates, including DAC unlockings and
refinements to estimates resulting from actuarial valuation
system enhancements and conversions, resulted in a net increase
to operating income of $19 million during 2007. However,
this net increase resulted from a number of items that had
varying effects on the results of operations of certain
operating units and lines of business. These adjustments
resulted in an increase of $183 million in operating income
for Foreign Life Insurance & Retirement Services and
decreases in operating income of $52 million and
$112 million for Domestic Life Insurance and Domestic
Retirement Services, respectively. In addition, the related
adjustments significantly affected both acquisition costs and
incurred policy losses and benefits in the Consolidated
Statement of Income.

Operating income in 2006 included an increase of
$169 million for an out of period adjustment related to the
accounting for UCITS and an increase of $163 million for an
out-of-period adjustment related to corrections of par
policyholder dividend reserves and allocations between
participating and non-participating accounts, both of which were
related to remediation efforts. In addition, operating income in
2006 included charges to Domestic Life Insurance operations of
$125 million for the adverse Superior National arbitration
ruling, $66 million related to the exit of the domestic
financial institutions credit life business and $55 million
related to other litigation.

2006 and 2005 Comparison  

Life Insurance & Retirement Services revenues in 2006
increased compared to 2005. Growth in premiums and other
considerations was dampened by the effect of foreign exchange,
most notably by the weakening Japanese Yen. Net investment
income was higher in 2006 compared to 2005 due to higher
partnership and mutual fund income, which in 2006 included a
positive out-of-period adjustment of $240 million related
to the accounting for UCITS. Operating income grew by
$1.2 billion from 2005, reflecting higher revenues,
including net realized capital gains, and out-of-period
reductions of policy benefits expense of $163 million in
2006 resulting from corrections of par policyholder dividend
reserves and allocations between participating and
non-participating accounts, both of which were related to
remediation efforts. In addition, operating income in 2006
included charges for Domestic Life Insurance of
$125 million for the adverse Superior National arbitration
ruling, $66 million related to the exit of the domestic
financial institutions credit life business and $55 million
related to other litigation.

64         AIG
2007 Form  10-K 

Table of Contents   

American International Group, Inc. and Subsidiaries

Foreign Life Insurance &
Retirement Services Results  

Foreign Life Insurance &
Retirement Services results on a sub-product basis for 2007,
2006 and 2005 were as follows:  

(a)   
     
     Includes the effect of an out of period UCITS adjustment in
    2006, which increased net investment income by $237 million
    and operating income by $166 million.  

AIG transacts business in most major foreign currencies and
therefore premiums and other considerations reported in
U.S. dollars vary by volume and from changes in foreign
currency translation rates. The following table summarizes the
effect of changes in foreign currency exchange rates on the
growth of the Foreign Life Insurance & Retirement
Services premiums and other considerations for the years ended
December 31, 2007 and 2006:

*   
     
     Computed using a constant exchange rate each period.  

AIG 2007
Form  10-K          
65 

Table of Contents   

American International Group, Inc. and Subsidiaries

Management s Discussion and Analysis of 

Financial Condition and Results of
Operations    Continued  

Japan and Other Results 

Japan and Other results on a sub-product basis for 2007, 2006
and 2005 were as follows: 

(a)   
     
     Includes the effect of an out of period UCITS adjustment in
    2006, which increased both net investment income and operating
    income by $29 million.  

2007 and 2006 Comparison  

Total revenues for Japan and Other in 2007 increased compared to
2006, primarily due to higher premiums and other considerations
and net investment income partially offset by net realized
capital losses. Net investment income increased in 2007 compared
to 2006 due to higher levels of assets under management and
higher policyholder trading gains partially offset by lower
partnership and mutual fund income. Operating income decreased
in 2007 compared to 2006 due principally to net realized capital
losses, a $187 million charge related to changes in
actuarial estimates, trading account losses of $150 million
in the U.K. associated with certain investment-linked products,
$67 million of additional claim expense related to the
industry wide regulatory review of claims in Japan and increased
incurred policyholder benefits of $36 million related to a
closed block of Japanese business with guaranteed benefits.
These decreases were partially offset by the positive effect of
foreign exchange rates.

Life insurance premiums and other considerations increased
moderately in 2007 compared to 2006. In Japan, single premium
sales of U.S. dollar denominated interest sensitive whole
life

66         AIG
2007 Form  10-K 

Table of Contents   

American International Group, Inc. and Subsidiaries

products remained strong. First year premium sales declined,
however, due to the suspension in April 2007 of increasing term
products pending completion of an industry wide review by the
National Tax Authority. Although the review was completed with
the issue of a draft paper for comment in December 2007, the
product remains suspended pending finalization of the report. In
Europe, growth in premiums and other considerations was driven
by the growing block of U.K. single premium investment-oriented
products and the positive effect of foreign exchange rates. The
growth in net investment income was due to growth in underlying
invested assets and higher partnership income. Life insurance
operating income declined in 2007 compared to 2006 due to net
realized capital losses, compared to net realized capital gains
in 2006. In addition, 2007 operating income was negatively
affected by a $115 million charge related to changes in
actuarial estimates, higher incurred policyholder benefits of
$36 million related to a closed block of Japanese business
with guaranteed benefits and $23 million of additional
claim expense related to the claims review in Japan. Operating
income in 2006 included the effect of an out of period UCITS
adjustment, which increased both net investment income and
operating income by $29 million.

Personal accident premiums and other considerations grew
modestly as strong growth in Europe was offset by lower growth
in Japan, particularly from the direct marketing distribution
channel. Net investment income increased in 2007 compared to
2006 primarily due to growth in invested assets. Operating
income declined in 2007 compared to 2006 due to a net realized
capital loss, a $42 million charge related to changes in
actuarial estimates, $42 million of additional claim
expense related to the claims review in Japan and
$20 million of additional expenses related to SOP 05-1.

Group products premiums and other considerations in 2007
increased significantly compared to 2006 primarily due to the
growing credit business in Europe. Net investment income
increased in 2007 compared to 2006, primarily due to higher
assets under management related to the Brazil pension business.
Operating income in 2007 declined compared to 2006 primarily due
to $19 million of additional expenses related to SOP 05-1
and lower net realized capital gains.

Individual fixed annuity deposits improved in 2007 primarily due
to sales in the U.K. and were partially offset by declining
sales in Japan due to the effect of a weak Japanese Yen for most
of the year as well as the market shift to variable annuity
products. Assets under management, however, continued to grow.
Individual fixed annuities premiums and other considerations
growth reflects a shift to front-end load products and higher
surrender charges from U.S. dollar products in Japan where a
weak Japanese Yen makes it attractive for certain policyholders
to lock-in foreign exchange gains in excess of surrender
charges. Surrender charges were $151 million and
$98 million in 2007 and 2006, respectively. Net investment
income increased due to higher average investment yields and
higher levels of assets under management. Operating income
declined in 2007 compared to 2006 due to realized capital losses
in 2007 versus realized capital gains in 2006.

Individual variable annuity deposits in 2007 declined compared
to 2006 due to the effect of tax law changes in Europe that
reduced tax benefits to policyholders, and lower sales in Japan
due to increased competition and the introduction of a new law
that increased sales compliance and customer suitability
requirements. Variable annuity sales in Japan began to improve
in the fourth quarter of 2007 as a new product, launched
mid-year in 2007, gained acceptance and banks became more
comfortable with the new law. The fees generated from the higher
levels of assets under management increased premiums and other
considerations in 2007 compared to 2006. Net investment income
increased due to higher policyholder trading gains in 2007
compared to 2006. Operating income declined in 2007 compared to
2006 primarily due to $150 million of trading account
losses on certain investment-linked products in the U.K. and net
realized capital losses.

2006 and 2005 Comparison  

Total revenues for Japan and Other increased in 2006 compared to
2005. Premiums and other considerations growth rates were
dampened by the effect of foreign exchange, most notably by the
weakening of the Japanese Yen. Net investment income in 2006
declined compared to 2005 due to lower policyholder trading
gains in the individual variable annuity line. Total revenues in
2006 increased compared to 2005 due to realized capital gains
relating primarily to derivative instruments for transactions
that did not qualify for hedge accounting treatment under
FAS 133. Operating income in 2006 increased compared to
2005 due to growth in the underlying retirement services
businesses and realized capital gains of $406 million.
Operating income in 2006 included the effect of an out of period
UCITS adjustment which increased net investment income and
operating income by $32 million. Operating income in 2006
was negatively affected by the weakening of the Japanese Yen
against the U.S. dollar and the continued runoff of the
older, higher margin in-force businesses of AIG Star Life and
AIG Edison Life.

AIG 2007
Form  10-K          
67 

Table of Contents   

American International Group, Inc. and Subsidiaries

Management s Discussion and Analysis of 

Financial Condition and Results of
Operations    Continued  

Asia Results  

Asia results on a sub-product basis for
2007, 2006 and 2005 were as follows:  

(a)   
     
     Includes the effect of an out of period UCITS adjustment in
    2006, which increased net investment income and operating income
    by $208 million and $137 million, respectively.  

2007 and 2006 Comparison

Total revenues in Asia in 2007 increased compared to 2006
primarily due to higher premiums and other considerations and
net investment income, partially offset by lower net realized
capital gains. Premiums and other considerations increased in
2007 compared to 2006, notwithstanding a continued trend toward
investment-oriented products where only a portion of policy
charges are reported as premiums. Sales of investment-oriented
life products have been particularly strong in Hong Kong, Korea
and Singapore and more recently in Taiwan. Net investment income
grew due to higher policyholder trading gains, higher
partnership and unit investment trust income and growth in
underlying invested assets. Net realized capital gains in 2007
were lower compared to 2006 due to an increase in
other-than-temporary impairment charges and the change in fair
value of derivatives that do not qualify for hedge accounting
treatment under FAS 133, partially offset by a positive
out-of-period adjustment of $158 million related to foreign
exchange remediation activities. Operating income in 2007
increased compared to 2006. Operating income in 2007 included a
$370 million positive effect of changes in actuarial
estimates along with higher

68         AIG
2007 Form  10-K 

Table of Contents   

American International Group, Inc. and Subsidiaries

partnership and UCITS income, partially offset by lower net
realized capital gains and a $118 million charge related to
remediation activity. Operating income in 2006 included an
increase of $137 million from an out of period adjustment
related to UCITS. In addition, operating income in 2006 included
the positive effect of out of period reductions in participating
policyholder dividend reserves of $163 million, primarily
as a result of tax remediation adjustments and a correction to
expense allocations between participating and non-participating
accounts.

Life insurance premiums and other considerations in 2007
reflected a moderate increase compared to 2006, benefiting from
improved sales in Thailand and the favorable effect of foreign
exchange rates, partially offset by the shift in product mix
from traditional life insurance products to investment-oriented
products. Net investment income grew in 2007 compared to 2006
due primarily to higher policyholder trading gains, the growth
in the underlying invested assets and higher partnership income.
Operating income increased in 2007 compared to 2006 due to a
$322 million positive effect of changes in actuarial
estimates, partially offset by an $86 million charge
related to remediation activity. Operating income in 2006
included the effect of the out of period UCITS adjustment and
reduction in participating policyholder dividend reserves
discussed above.

Personal accident revenues grew in 2007 compared to 2006
primarily due to higher premiums and other considerations,
particularly in Korea and Taiwan. Operating income reflects the
combined effect of premium growth and stable loss ratios and a
$51 million positive effect related to changes in actuarial
estimates in 2007.

Group products premiums and other considerations grew in 2007
compared to 2006 due to higher pension management fees and
sales. However, operating income declined in 2007 compared to
2006, primarily due to net realized capital losses resulting
from other-than-temporary impairment charges, a $29 million
charge related to remediation activity and higher DAC
amortization expense.

Individual fixed annuities total revenues grew in 2007 compared
to 2006 due primarily to higher net investment income and
increased net realized capital gains. Deposits in 2007 declined
compared to 2006 due to increased competition and a market shift
to variable life products, particularly in Korea.

2006 and 2005 Comparison

Revenues for Asia grew in 2006 compared to 2005. Premiums and
other considerations in 2006 were negatively affected by the
trend towards investment-oriented products as only a portion of
the policy charges collected are reported as premiums. Net
investment income in 2006 grew compared to 2005 due to higher
policyholder trading gains. Net realized capital gains were
significantly higher in 2006 compared to 2005 relating primarily
to derivative instruments for transactions that do not qualify
for hedge accounting treatment under FAS 133. Revenues and
operating income in 2006 included increases of $208 million
and $137 million, respectively, from out of period
adjustments related to UCITS. In addition, operating income in
2006 increased due to a $163 million out of period
adjustment related to participating policyholder dividend
reserves primarily as a result of tax remediation adjustments
and a correction to expense allocations between participating
and non-participating accounts.

Domestic Life Insurance
Results  

Domestic Life Insurance results,
presented on a sub-product basis for 2007, 2006 and 2005, were
as follows:  

AIG 2007
Form  10-K          
69 

Table of Contents   

American International Group, Inc. and Subsidiaries

Management s Discussion and Analysis of 

Financial Condition and Results of
Operations    Continued  

(a)  
     
     Premiums and other considerations include structured
    settlements, single premium immediate annuities and terminal
    funding annuities.  

2007 and 2006 Comparison

Total Domestic Life Insurance revenues in 2007 decreased
compared to 2006 primarily due to higher net realized capital
losses, partially offset by higher premiums and other
considerations and net investment income. Domestic Life
Insurance premiums and other considerations increased in 2007
compared to 2006 primarily due to the growth in life insurance
business in force and payout annuity premiums, which were
partially offset by a decline in group life/health premiums due
to exiting the financial institutions credit life business at
the end of 2006. Domestic Life Insurance operating income
decreased in 2007 compared to 2006, primarily due to higher net
realized capital losses which consisted of losses related to
sales of securities, other-than-temporary impairment writedowns
of fixed income securities as well as derivative losses. The
higher net realized capital losses in 2007 were partially offset
by increases in premiums and other considerations and net
investment income, and an improvement in group life/health
results compared to 2006, which included a $125 million
charge related to the Superior National workers compensation
arbitration, a $66 million loss related to the exit from
the financial institutions credit life business and a
$55 million charge related to litigation reserves. Changes
in actuarial estimates, including DAC unlockings and refinements
in estimates resulting from actuarial valuation system
enhancements, resulted in a net decrease in operating income of
$52 million in 2007. Operating income in 2007 was also
negatively affected by a $67 million increase in DAC
amortization related to
SOP  05-1,  which
was partially offset by a $52 million decrease in policy
benefits due to additional reinsurance recoveries associated
with Superior National.

Life insurance premiums and other considerations increased in
2007 compared to 2006 driven by growth in life insurance
business in force and increased policyholder charges related to
universal life and whole life products. Net investment income in
2007 compared to 2006 increased due to higher partnership
income, higher call and tender income and positive changes from
foreign denominated emerging market bonds. Life insurance
operating income decreased in 2007 compared to 2006 primarily
due to higher net realized capital losses and higher mortality
in 2007, although mortality is still within expected ranges. In
addition, operating income in 2007 included a $25 million
increase in reserves related to changes in actuarial estimates
and an $11 million increase in DAC amortization related to
SOP  05-1. 

Home service premiums and other considerations declined in 2007
compared to 2006 as the reduction in premiums in force from
normal lapses and maturities exceeded sales growth. Net
investment income in 2007 increased slightly compared to 2006
due to higher partnership income and positive changes from
foreign denominated emerging market bonds. Home service
operating income decreased largely due to higher net realized
capital losses and an $11 million increase in DAC
amortization related to SOP 05-1, partially offset by continued
improvement in profit margins.

Group life/health premiums and other considerations in 2007
declined compared to 2006, primarily due to the exit from the
financial institutions credit life business at the end of 2006
and tightened pricing and underwriting in the group employer
product

70         AIG
2007 Form  10-K 

Table of Contents   

American International Group, Inc. and Subsidiaries

lines. Group life/health operating income increased in 2007
compared to 2006. Operating income in 2007 included a
$52 million decrease in policy benefits from additional
reinsurance recoveries associated with Superior National, offset
by an increase of $45 million in DAC amortization related
to SOP  05-1.  The
operating loss in 2006 included a $125 million charge
resulting from the loss of the Superior National arbitration, a
$66 million loss related to exiting the financial
institutions credit business and a $25 million charge for
litigation reserves.

Payout annuities premiums and other considerations increased in
2007 compared to 2006 reflecting increased sales of structured
settlements and terminal funding annuities. Net investment
income increased in 2007 reflecting growth in insurance reserves
and an increase in call and tender income on fixed income
securities. Payout annuities operating income decreased slightly
in 2007 as growth in the business was more than offset by higher
net realized capital losses and by a $30 million out of
period adjustment to increase group annuity reserves for payout
annuities. Operating income in 2006 included a $24 million
increase in reserves as various methodologies and assumptions
were enhanced for payout annuity reserves.

Individual fixed and runoff annuities net investment income and
operating income decreased in 2007 compared to 2006 reflecting
declining insurance reserves. Operating income in 2006 included
$30 million of increased amortization due to DAC unlocking
to reflect lower in-force amounts.

2006 and 2005 Comparison

Premiums and other considerations for Domestic Life Insurance
increased in 2006 compared to 2005 and were primarily driven by
growth in the life insurance business in-force and payout
annuity premiums, partially offset by declining in-force
business in the home service and group life/health lines.
Domestic Life Insurance operating income declined in 2006
compared to 2005 due to net realized capital losses and several
significant transactions described below in 2006, partially
offset by continued growth in life insurance and payout annuity
business. Operating income in 2006 included a $125 million
charge resulting from the loss of the Superior National
arbitration and a $66 million loss related to exiting the
financial institutions credit business both within the group
life/health business. In addition, Domestic Life Insurance
operating income was negatively affected by $55 million in
litigation accruals, an increase in reserves of $24 million
related to various methodologies and assumptions which were
enhanced in the payout annuity business and a DAC unlocking
charge of $30 million in the individual fixed and runoff
annuities line to reflect lower in-force amounts.

The following table reflects Domestic
Life Insurance periodic premium sales by product for 2007, 2006
and 2005:  

*   
     
     Periodic premium represents premium from new business
    expected to be collected over a one-year period.  

2007 and 2006 Comparison

Domestic Life Insurance periodic premium sales declined in 2007
compared to 2006 primarily as a result of the repricing of
certain universal life and term products and the tightening of
underwriting standards during the second half of 2006. In the
second half of 2007, AIG experienced positive sales growth in
indexed universal life products and the sale of a large private
placement variable universal life case.

2006 and 2005 Comparison

Domestic Life Insurance periodic premium sales increased in 2006
compared to 2005 primarily reflecting growth in the independent
distribution platform. During the second half of 2006, certain
universal life products were re-priced and underwriting
standards were tightened.

AIG 2007
Form  10-K          
71 

Table of Contents   

American International Group, Inc. and Subsidiaries

Management s Discussion and Analysis of 

Financial Condition and Results of
Operations    Continued  

Domestic Retirement Services
Results  

Domestic Retirement Services results,
presented on a sub-product basis for 2007, 2006 and 2005 were as
follows:  

*   
     
     Primarily represents runoff annuity business sold through
    discontinued distribution relationships.  

2007 and 2006 Comparison

Total revenues and operating income for Domestic Retirement
Services declined in 2007 compared to 2006 primarily due to
increased net realized capital losses. Net realized capital
losses for Domestic Retirement Services increased due to higher
other-than-temporary impairment charges of $1.2 billion in 2007
compared to $368 million in 2006 and sales to reposition
assets in certain investment portfolios for both group
retirement products and individual fixed annuities, as well as
from changes in the value of certain individual variable annuity
product guarantees and related hedges associated with living
benefit features. Changes in actuarial estimates, including DAC
unlockings and refinements to estimates resulting from actuarial
valuation system enhancements, resulted in a net decrease to
operating income of $112 million in 2007.

Group retirement products operating income in 2007 decreased
compared to 2006 primarily as a result of increased net realized
capital losses due to higher other-than-temporary impairment
charges and an increase in DAC amortization related to both an
increase in surrenders and to policy changes adding guaranteed
minimum withdrawal benefit riders to existing contracts.
Operating income was also negatively affected in 2007 by an
$18 million adjustment, primarily reflecting changes in
actuarial estimates from the conversion to a new valuation
system. These were partially offset by higher variable annuity
fees which resulted from an increase in separate account assets
compared to 2006.

Individual fixed annuities operating income in 2007 decreased
compared to 2006 as a result of net realized capital losses due
to higher other-than-temporary impairment charges partially
offset by increases in partnership income. The decline in
operating income also reflected higher DAC amortization and
sales inducement costs related to increased surrenders and a
$33 million charge reflecting changes in actuarial
estimates from the conver-

72         AIG
2007 Form  10-K 

Table of Contents   

American International Group, Inc. and Subsidiaries

sion to a new valuation system, as well as unlocking future
assumptions and experience updates.

Individual variable annuities operating income decreased in 2007
compared to 2006 largely due to an increase in DAC amortization
and sales inducement costs related to a $61 million
adjustment reflecting changes in actuarial estimates. Net
realized capital losses increased due to changes in the value of
certain annuity product guarantees and related hedges associated
with living benefit features and higher other-than-temporary
impairment charges.

2006 and 2005 Comparison

Total Domestic Retirement Services operating income increased in
2006 compared to 2005 principally due to higher partnership and
yield enhancement income in the individual fixed annuity product
line. Group retirement products total revenues were flat in 2006
as improvements in partnership income and variable annuity fees
were offset by increased net realized capital losses. The flat
revenues, coupled with higher amortization of deferred
acquisition costs related to internal replacements of existing
contracts into new contracts, resulted in a decrease in group
retirement operating income. Individual variable annuity total
revenues increased in 2006, primarily driven by higher variable
annuity fees resulting from an increase in assets under
management. Partially offsetting these higher fees was an
increase in DAC amortization resulting from increased surrender
activity in the first half of 2006. In 2006, the individual
annuities-runoff operating income increased, even though the
underlying reserves decreased due to increased net spreads as a
result of higher investment yields partially offset by increased
realized capital losses.

The following table presents the
account value roll forward for Domestic Retirement Services by
product for 2007 and 2006:  

2007 and 2006 Comparison

Domestic Retirement Services deposits increased in 2007 compared
to 2006 primarily reflecting higher deposits in group retirement
products and individual variable annuities, partially offset by
a decrease in individual fixed annuities. Group retirement
deposits increased 10 percent in 2007 compared to 2006 as a
result of an increased focus on sales management and acquiring
outside deposits. Mutual funds deposits increased
20 percent while group annuity deposits increased
8 percent. Over time,

AIG 2007
Form  10-K          
73 

Table of Contents   

American International Group, Inc. and Subsidiaries

Management s Discussion and Analysis of 

Financial Condition and Results of
Operations    Continued  

growth in lower margin mutual fund products relative to annuity
products will result in a gradual reduction in overall profit
margins of this business. Individual fixed annuity sales
continued to face increased competition from bank deposit
products and money market funds offering very competitive
short-term rates in the current yield curve environment, and as
a result deposits decreased 5 percent in 2007 compared to
2006. Individual variable annuity deposits increased
5 percent in 2007 compared to 2006 despite the
discontinuation of a major bank proprietary product.

Domestic Retirement Services surrenders and other withdrawals
increased in 2007 compared to 2006. The increase primarily
reflects higher surrenders in both group retirement products and
individual fixed annuities. Group retirement surrenders
increased as a result of both normal maturing of the business
and higher large group surrenders in 2007 compared to 2006.
Individual fixed annuity surrenders and withdrawals increased in
2007 due to both an increasing number of policies coming out of
their surrender charge period and increased competition from
bank deposit products. AIG expects this trend to continue into
2008 as a significant amount of business comes out of its
surrender charge period.

The following table presents Domestic
Retirement Services reserves by surrender charge category and
surrender rates as of December 31, 2007 and 2006:  

Surrender rates increased for individual fixed annuities, while
group retirement surrender rates decreased slightly in 2007
compared to 2006. Although group retirement surrenders increased
compared to 2006, the surrender rate decreased slightly as a
result of a 6 percent increase in reserves. The increase in
the surrender rate for individual fixed annuities continues to
be driven by a relatively flat yield curve and the general aging
of the in-force block; however, less than 23 percent of the
individual fixed annuity reserves as of December 31, 2007
were available for surrender without charge. Individual variable
annuities surrender rates were slightly lower in 2007 compared
to 2006.

An increase in the level of surrenders in any of these
businesses or in the individual fixed annuities runoff block
could accelerate the amortization of DAC and negatively affect
fee income earned on assets under management.

Higher surrenders in the group retirement and individual fixed
annuity blocks, offset somewhat by increased deposits in group
retirement, resulted in negative net flows in 2007. The
continuation of the current interest rate and competitive
environment would prolong this trend.

74         AIG
2007 Form  10-K 

Table of Contents   

American International Group, Inc. and Subsidiaries

Life Insurance & Retirement Services Net Investment
Income and Net Realized Capital Gains (Losses) 

The following table summarizes the
components of net investment income for the years ended
December 31, 2007, 2006 and 2005:  

AIG 2007
Form  10-K          
75 

Table of Contents   

American International Group, Inc. and Subsidiaries

Management s Discussion and Analysis of 

Financial Condition and Results of
Operations    Continued  

(a)   
     
     Includes the effect of an out of period UCITS adjustment in
    2006, which increased net investment income by $240 million
    and operating income by $169 million.  

(b)  
     
     Includes real estate income, income on non-partnership
    invested assets, securities lending and Foreign Life Insurance
    & Retirement Services  equal share of the results of
    AIG Credit Card Company (Taiwan).  

(c)  
     
     Relates principally to assets held in various trading
    securities accounts that do not qualify for separate account
    treatment under SOP 03-1. These amounts are principally offset
    by an equal change included in incurred policy losses and
    benefits.  

(d)  
     
     Includes call and tender income.  

2007 and 2006 Comparison

Net investment income increased $2.3 billion, or
12 percent in 2007 compared to 2006 as the invested asset
base grew for fixed maturities, equity securities and mortgage
and other loans. In addition, yield enhancement activity
increased compared to 2006. Net investment income from UCITS in
2006 included a $240 million out of period increase.
Policyholder trading gains increased in 2007 compared to
2006 principally due to an increase in assets under management,
partially offset by trading account losses of $150 million
on certain investment-linked products in the U.K. Net investment
income for certain operations include investments in structured
notes linked to emerging market sovereign debt that incorporates
both interest rate risk and currency risk. These investments
generated income of $45 million in 2007 compared to losses
of $8 million in 2006. In addition, period to period
comparisons of investment income for some investment activities,
particularly partnership income, are affected by yield
enhancement activity. See Invested Assets for further
information.

AIG generates income tax credits as a result of investing in
synthetic fuel production (synfuels) related to the
partnership income (loss) shown in the above table and records
those benefits separately from segment operating results in its
consolidated provision for income taxes. The amounts of those
income tax credits were $84 million, $127 million and
$203 million for 2007, 2006 and 2005, respectively. These
tax credits will no longer be generated after December 31,
2007. Synfuel production has ceased and the investments have
been fully written off as of December 31, 2007.

2006 and 2005 Comparison

Net investment income increased 7 percent in 2006 compared
to 2005 as income from fixed maturities, equity securities and
mortgage and other loans income rose as the underlying invested
asset base grew. Net investment income in 2006 also included the
out of period increase relating to UCITS of $240 million.

76         AIG
2007 Form  10-K 

Table of Contents   

American International Group, Inc. and Subsidiaries

The following table summarizes net
realized capital gains (losses) for Life Insurance &
Retirement Services by major category for the years ended
December 31, 2007, 2006 and 2005:  

(a)   
     
      See Invested Assets  
    Other-than-temporary impairments for additional
    information.   

(b)   
     
      Includes a positive out-of-period
    adjustment of $158 million in 2007 related to foreign
    exchange remediation activities.   

(c)   
     
      Includes gains (losses) of
    $(16) million, $88 million and $109 million in
    2007, 2006 and 2005, respectively, allocated to participating
    policyholders.   

2007 and 2006 Comparison

Net realized capital gains
(losses) include normal portfolio transactions as well as
derivative gains (losses) for transactions that did not
qualify for hedge accounting treatment under FAS 133, foreign
exchange gains and losses and other-than-temporary impairments.
In 2007, Life Insurance & Retirement Services operations
recorded $2.8 billion of other-than-temporary impairment
charges compared to $641 million in 2006. For Foreign Life
Insurance & Retirement Services operations, these losses
were related to both the decline in value of U.S. dollar bonds
held in Thailand and Singapore, which reflects the depreciation
of the U.S. dollar against local currencies, and impairments
due, in part, to the recent volatility in the securities
markets. Net realized capital losses in the Foreign Life
Insurance & Retirement Services operations in 2007 included
losses of $135 million related to derivatives that did not
qualify for hedge accounting treatment under FAS 133
compared to a gain of $276 million in 2006. Derivatives in
the Foreign Life Insurance & Retirement Services operations
are primarily used to economically hedge cash flows related to
U.S. dollar bonds back to the respective currency of the
country, principally in Taiwan, Thailand and Singapore. The
corresponding foreign exchange gain or loss with respect to the
economically hedged bond is deferred in accumulated other

AIG 2007
Form  10-K          
77 

Table of Contents   

American International Group, Inc. and Subsidiaries

Management s Discussion and Analysis of 

Financial Condition and Results of
Operations    Continued  

comprehensive income until the bond is
sold or deemed to be other-than-temporarily impaired.

For the Domestic Life Insurance and
Domestic Retirement Services operations, the higher net realized
capital losses resulted principally from other-than-temporary
impairment charges of $1.8 billion in 2007 compared to
$560 million in 2006 and from the sale of securities in
2007 to reposition assets in certain investment portfolios. Net
realized capital losses in the Domestic Life Insurance
operations in 2007 included losses of $186 million related
to derivatives that did not qualify for hedge accounting
treatment under FAS 133 compared to a gain of
$25 million in 2006. Derivatives in the Domestic Life
Insurance operations include affiliated interest rate swaps used
to economically hedge cash flows on bonds and option contracts
used to economically hedge cash flows on indexed annuity and
universal life products. The corresponding gain or loss with
respect to the economically hedged bond is deferred in
accumulated other comprehensive income until the bond is sold,
matures or deemed to be other-than-temporarily impaired. See
Invested Assets   Valuation of Invested
Assets   Portfolio Review herein.

2006 and 2005 Comparison

Net realized capital gains
(losses) in 2006 improved $246 million compared to
2005 primarily due to gains on derivative instruments primarily
used to economically hedge cash flows that did not qualify for
hedge accounting treatment under FAS 133 and related primarily
to the Foreign Life Insurance & Retirement Services
operations.

Deferred Policy Acquisition Costs and
Sales Inducement Assets  

DAC for Life Insurance & Retirement
Services products arises from the deferral of costs that vary
with, and are directly related to, the acquisition of new or
renewal business. Policy acquisition costs for life insurance
products are generally deferred and amortized over the premium
paying period in accordance with FAS 60. Policy acquisition
costs that relate to universal life and investment-type products
are deferred and amortized, with interest in relation to the
incidence of estimated gross profits to be realized over the
estimated lives of the contracts in accordance with FAS 97.
Value of Business Acquired (VOBA) is determined at the time
of acquisition and is reported on the consolidated balance sheet
with DAC and amortized over the life of the business, similar to
DAC. AIG offers sales inducements to contract holders (bonus
interest) on certain annuity and investment contracts. Sales
inducements are recognized as part of the liability for
policyholders contract deposits on the consolidated balance
sheet and are amortized over the life of the contract similar to
DAC. Total deferred acquisition and sales inducement costs
increased $549 million in 2007 compared to 2006 primarily
due to higher production in the Foreign Life Insurance
operations partially offset by lower Domestic Life Insurance
& Retirement Services sales. Total amortization expense
decreased $328 million compared to 2006. Annualized
amortization expense levels in 2007 and 2006 were approximately
10 percent and 13 percent, respectively, of the
opening DAC balance. The decline in amortization expense levels
relates to changes in actuarial estimates, which is
substantially offset by related adjustments to incurred policy
losses and benefits.

78         AIG
2007 Form  10-K 

Table of Contents   

American International Group, Inc. and Subsidiaries

The following table summarizes the
major components of the changes in DAC/ Value of Business
Acquired (VOBA) and Sales Inducement Assets (SIA) for
2007 and 2006:  

(a)  
     
     In 2007, Foreign Life Insurance & Retirement Services
    includes lower amortization of $836 million related to
    changes in actuarial estimates, mostly offset in incurred policy
    losses and benefits. Domestic Retirement Services includes a
    higher amortization of $104 million related to changes in
    actuarial estimates.  

(b)  
     
     In 2007, includes $(118) million for the cumulative
    effect of adoption of
    SOP  05-1  and
    $189 million related to balance sheet reclassifications. In
    2006, primarily represents a balance sheet reclassification.  

Because AIG operates in various global markets, the estimated
gross profits used to amortize DAC, VOBA and sales inducements
can be subject to differing market returns and interest rate
environments in any single period. The combination of market
returns and interest rates may lead to acceleration of
amortization in some products and regions and simultaneous
deceleration of amortization in other products and regions.

DAC, VOBA and SIA for insurance-oriented, investment-oriented
and retirement services products are reviewed for
recoverability, which involves estimating the future
profitability of current business. This review involves
significant management judgment. If actual future profitability
is substantially lower than estimated, AIG s DAC, VOBA and
SIA may be subject to an impairment charge

AIG 2007
Form  10-K          
79 

Table of Contents   

American International Group, Inc. and Subsidiaries

Management s Discussion and Analysis of 

Financial Condition and Results of
Operations    Continued  

and AIG s results of operations could be significantly
affected in such future periods.

Future Policy Benefit Reserves 

Periodically, the net benefit reserves (policy benefit reserves
less DAC) established for Life Insurance & Retirement
Services companies are tested to ensure that, including
consideration of future expected premium payments, they are
adequate to provide for future policyholder benefit obligations.
The assumptions used to perform the tests are current
best-estimate assumptions as to policyholder mortality,
morbidity, terminations, company maintenance expenses and
invested asset returns. For long duration traditional business,
a  lock-in  principle applies, whereby the assumptions
used to calculate the benefit reserves and DAC are set when a
policy is issued and do not change with changes in actual
experience. These assumptions include margins for adverse
deviation in the event that actual experience might deviate from
these assumptions. For business in-force outside of North
America, 45 percent of total policyholder benefit
liabilities at December 31, 2007 resulted from traditional
business where the lock-in principle applies. In most foreign
locations, various guarantees are embedded in policies in force
that may remain applicable for many decades into the future.

As experience changes over time, the best-estimate assumptions
are updated to reflect the observed changes. Because of the
long-term nature of many of AIG s liabilities subject to
the lock-in principle, small changes in certain of the
assumptions may cause large changes in the degree of reserve
adequacy. In particular, changes in estimates of future invested
asset return assumptions have a large effect on the degree of
reserve adequacy.

During 2007, Life Insurance & Retirement Services continued
its ongoing project to increase standardization of AIG s
actuarial systems and processes throughout the world. In
particular, there is an initiative within the Domestic Life
Insurance & Retirement Services operations to consolidate
the numerous actuarial valuation systems onto common platforms.
This initiative began in 2006 and will continue into 2008. In
the Foreign Life Insurance operations, actuarial reserves for
certain blocks of business have been computed outside of the
primary actuarial valuation systems and/or used methodologies
that approximate amounts that would have been reported had these
blocks of business been included in the primary actuarial
valuation systems.

During 2007, Life Insurance & Retirement Services completed
various system migrations, implemented more robust models for
certain blocks of business and refined its method of
approximation on any remaining blocks of business. The majority
of these actions occurred in the fourth quarter of 2007 and any
resulting changes in actuarial estimates were recorded in the
fourth quarter of 2007 results of operations. The above changes
in actuarial estimates, including unlockings, resulted in a net
increase to operating income of $19 million during 2007.
However, this net increase resulted from a number of items that
had varying effects on the results of operations of certain
operating units and lines of business. These adjustments
resulted in an increase of $183 million in operating income
for Foreign Life Insurance & Retirement Services and
decreases in operating income of $52 million and
$112 million for Domestic Life Insurance and Domestic
Retirement Services, respectively. In addition, the related
adjustments significantly affected both acquisition costs and
incurred policy losses and benefits in the Consolidated
Statement of Income due to reclassifications between DAC and
future policy benefits reserves.

Taiwan

Beginning in 2000, the yield available on Taiwanese 10-year
government bonds dropped from approximately 6 percent to
2.6 percent at December 31, 2007. Yields on most other
invested assets have correspondingly dropped over the same
period. Current sales are focused on products such as:

variable separate account products which do not contain interest
    rate guarantees, 

participating products which contain very low implied interest
    rate guarantees, and 

accident and health policies and riders. 

In developing the reserve adequacy analysis for Nan Shan,
several key best estimate assumptions have been made:

Observed historical mortality improvement trends have been
    projected to 2014; 

Morbidity, expense and termination rates have been updated to
    reflect recent experience; 

Taiwan government bond rates are expected to remain at current
    levels for 10 years and gradually increase to best estimate
    assumptions of a market consensus view of long-term interest
    rate expectations; 

Foreign assets are assumed to comprise 35 percent of invested
    assets, resulting in a composite long-term investment assumption
    of approximately 4.9 percent; and 

The currently permitted practice of offsetting positive
    mortality experience with negative interest margins, thus
    eliminating the need for mortality dividends, will continue. 

Future results of the reserve adequacy tests will involve
significant management judgment as to mortality, morbidity,
expense and termination rates and investment yields. Adverse
changes in these assumptions could accelerate DAC amortization
and necessitate reserve strengthening.

80         AIG
2007 Form  10-K 

Table of Contents   

American International Group, Inc. and Subsidiaries

Financial Services Operations

AIG s Financial Services subsidiaries engage in diversified
activities including aircraft and equipment leasing, capital
markets, consumer finance and insurance premium finance.

Financial Services Results 

Financial Services results were as
follows:  

(a)  
     
     Both revenues and operating income include gains (losses)
    from hedging activities that did not qualify for hedge
    accounting treatment under FAS 133, including the related
    foreign exchange gains and losses. In 2007, 2006 and 2005, the
    effect was $(37) million, $(73) million and
    $93 million, respectively. These amounts result primarily
    from interest rate and foreign currency derivatives that are
    effective economic hedges of borrowings. In the second quarter
    of 2007, ILFC began applying hedge accounting to most of its
    derivatives hedging interest rate and foreign exchange risks
    associated with its floating rate and foreign currency
    denominated borrowings.  

(b)  
     
     Revenues, shown net of interest expense of $4.6 billion,
    $3.2 billion and $3.0 billion in 2007, 2006 and 2005,
    respectively, were primarily from hedged financial positions
    entered into in connection with counterparty transactions. Both
    revenues and operating income include gains (losses) from
    hedging activities that did not qualify for hedge accounting
    treatment under FAS 133, including the related foreign
    exchange gains and losses. In 2007, 2006 and 2005, the effect
    was $211 million, $(1.8) billion and
    $2.0 billion, respectively. The year ended
    December 31, 2007 includes a $380 million out of
    period charge to reverse net gains recognized on transfers of
    available for sale securities among legal entities consolidated
    within AIGFP. The year ended December 31, 2006 includes an
    out of period charge of $223 million related to the
    remediation of the material weakness in internal control over
    the accounting for certain derivative transactions under
    FAS 133. In the first quarter of 2007, AIGFP began applying
    hedge accounting for certain of its interest rate swaps and
    foreign currency forward contracts hedging its investments and
    borrowings. In 2007, both revenues and operating income (loss)
    include an unrealized market valuation loss of
    $11.5 billion on AIGFP s super senior credit default
    swap portfolio and an other-than-temporary impairment charge of
    $643 million on AIGFP s available for sale investment
    securities recorded in other income.  

(c)  
     
     Both revenues and operating income include gains (losses)
    from hedging activities that did not qualify for hedge
    accounting treatment under FAS 133, including the related
    foreign exchange gains and losses. In 2007, 2006 and 2005, the
    effect was $(20) million, $(94) million and
    $75 million, respectively. These amounts result primarily
    from interest rate and foreign currency derivatives that are
    effective economic hedges of borrowings. In the second quarter
    of 2007, AGF began applying hedge accounting to most of its
    derivatives hedging interest rate and foreign exchange risks
    associated with its floating rate and foreign currency
    denominated borrowings. In 2007, includes a pre-tax charge of
    $178 million in connection with domestic consumer
    finance s mortgage banking activities.  

2007 and 2006 Comparison 

Financial Services reported an operating loss in 2007 compared
to operating income in 2006 primarily due to an unrealized
market valuation loss of $11.5 billion on AIGFP s
super senior credit default swap portfolio, an
other-than-temporary impairment charge on AIGFP s available
for sale investment securities recorded in other income, and a
decline in operating income for AGF. AGF s operating income
declined in 2007 compared to 2006, due to reduced residential
mortgage origination volumes, lower revenues from its mortgage
banking activities and increases in the provision for finance
receivable losses. In 2007, AGF s mortgage banking
operations also recorded a pre-tax charge of $178 million,
representing the estimated cost of implementing the Supervisory
Agreement entered into with the OTS.

ILFC generated strong operating income growth in 2007 compared
to 2006, driven to a large extent by a larger aircraft fleet,
higher lease rates and higher utilization.

In 2007, AIGFP began applying hedge accounting under
FAS 133 to certain of its interest rate swaps and foreign
currency forward contracts that hedge its investments and
borrowings and AGF and ILFC began applying hedge accounting to
most of their derivatives that hedge floating rate and foreign
currency denominated borrowings. Prior to 2007, hedge accounting
was not applied to any of AIG s derivatives and related
assets and liabilities. Accordingly, revenues and operating
income were exposed to volatility resulting from differences in
the timing of revenue recognition between the derivatives and
the hedged assets and liabilities.

The year ended December 31, 2007 included an out of period
charge of $380 million to reverse net gains recognized on
transfers of available for sale securities among legal entities

AIG 2007
Form  10-K          
81 

Table of Contents   

American International Group, Inc. and Subsidiaries

Management s Discussion and Analysis of 

Financial Condition and Results of
Operations    Continued  

consolidated within AIGFP. The year ended December 31, 2006
included out of period charges of $223 million related to
the remediation of the material weakness in internal control
over accounting for certain derivative transactions under
FAS 133.

In order to better align financial reporting with the manner in
which AIG s chief operating decision makers manage their
businesses, beginning in 2007, net realized capital gains and
losses, including derivative gains and losses and foreign
exchange transaction gains and losses for Financial Services
entities other than AIGFP, which were historically reported as a
component of AIG s Other category, are now reported in
Financial Services revenues and operating income. Prior period
amounts have been revised to conform to the current presentation.

2006 and 2005 Comparison 

Financial Services operating income decreased in 2006 compared
to 2005, due primarily to the effect of hedging activities that
did not qualify for hedge accounting treatment under
FAS 133.

Aircraft Leasing  

Aircraft Leasing operations represent the operations of ILFC,
which generates its revenues primarily from leasing new and used
commercial jet aircraft to foreign and domestic airlines.
Revenues also result from the remarketing of commercial aircraft
for ILFC s own account, and remarketing and fleet
management services for airlines and financial institutions.
ILFC finances its aircraft purchases primarily through the
issuance of debt instruments. ILFC economically hedges part of
its floating rate and substantially all of its foreign currency
denominated debt using interest rate and foreign currency
derivatives. Starting in the second quarter of 2007, ILFC began
applying hedge accounting to most of its derivatives. All of
ILFC s derivatives are effective economic hedges; however,
since hedge accounting under FAS 133 was not applied prior to
April 2, 2007, the benefits of using derivatives to hedge
these exposures are not reflected in ILFC s 2006 corporate
borrowing rate. The composite borrowing rates at
December 31, 2007 and 2006 were 5.16 percent and
5.17 percent, respectively.

ILFC typically contracts to re-lease aircraft before the end of
the existing lease term. For aircraft returned before the end of
the lease term, ILFC has generally been able to re-lease such
aircraft within two to six months of their return. As a lessor,
ILFC considers an aircraft  idle  or  off
lease  when the aircraft is not subject to a signed lease
agreement or signed letter of intent. ILFC had no aircraft off
lease at December 31, 2007, and all new aircraft scheduled
for delivery through 2008 have been leased.

Aircraft Leasing Results

2007 and 2006 Comparison  

ILFC s operating income increased in 2007 compared to 2006.
Rental revenues increased by $596 million or
15 percent, driven by a larger aircraft fleet and higher
lease rates. As of December 31, 2007, 900 aircraft in
ILFC s fleet were subject to operating leases compared to
824 aircraft as of December 31, 2006. During 2007, ILFC
realized income of $31 million from the sale of its rights
against bankrupt airlines. The increase in revenues was
partially offset by reduced flight equipment marketing revenues
and increases in depreciation and interest expense. Flight
equipment marketing revenues decreased by $40 million
compared to 2006 due to fewer aircraft sales. Depreciation
expense increased by $166 million, or 11 percent, in
line with the increase in the size of the aircraft fleet.
Interest expense increased by $176 million, or
12 percent, driven by additional borrowings to fund
aircraft purchases and the rising cost of funds. In 2007 and
2006, the losses from hedging activities that did not qualify
for hedge accounting treatment under FAS 133, including the
related foreign exchange gains and losses, were $37 million
and $73 million, respectively, in both revenues and
operating income. During 2006, ILFC recorded charges to income
related to a tax settlement in Australia, increased credit
reserves and increased lease accruals, all of which totaled
$37 million.

2006 and 2005 Comparison  

ILFC s operating income decreased in 2006 compared to 2005.
Rental revenues increased by $536 million or
16 percent, driven by a larger aircraft fleet, increased
utilization and higher lease rates. During 2006, ILFC s
fleet subject to operating leases increased by 78 airplanes to a
total of 824. The increase in rental revenues was offset in part
by increases in depreciation expense and interest expense,
charges related to bankrupt airlines, as well as the settlement
of a tax dispute in Australia related to the restructuring of
ownership of aircraft. Depreciation expense increased by
$200 million, or 14 percent, in line with the increase
in the size of the aircraft fleet. Interest expense increased by
$317 million, or 28 percent, driven by rising cost of
funds, a weaker U.S. dollar against the Euro and the
British Pound and additional borrowings funding aircraft
purchases. As noted above, ILFC s interest expense did not
reflect the benefit of hedging these exposures. In 2006 and
2005, the effect from hedging activities that did not qualify
for hedge accounting treatment under FAS 133, including the
related foreign exchange gains and losses, was a
$73 million loss and a $93 million gain, respectively,
in both revenues and operating income.

Capital Markets  

Capital Markets represents the operations of AIGFP, which
engages as principal in a wide variety of financial
transactions, including standard and customized financial
products involving commodities, credit, currencies, energy,
equities and rates. The credit products include credit
protection written through credit default swaps on super senior
risk tranches of diversified pools of loans and debt securities.
AIGFP also invests in a diversified portfolio of securities and
principal investments and engages in borrowing activities
involving the issuance of standard and structured notes and
other securities, and entering into guaranteed investment
agreements (GIAs).

As Capital Markets is a transaction-oriented operation, current
and past revenues and operating results may not provide a basis
for predicting future performance. AIG s Capital Markets
opera-

82         AIG
2007 Form  10-K 

Table of Contents   

American International Group, Inc. and Subsidiaries

tions derive a significant portion of their revenues from hedged
financial positions entered into in connection with counterparty
transactions. AIGFP also participates as a dealer in a wide
variety of financial derivatives transactions. Revenues and
operating income of the Capital Markets operations and the
percentage change in these amounts for any given period are
significantly affected by the number, size and profitability of
transactions entered into during that period relative to those
entered into during the prior period. Generally, the realization
of transaction revenues as measured by the receipt of funds is
not a significant reporting event as the gain or loss on
AIGFP s trading transactions is currently reflected in
operating income as the fair values change from period to period.

AIGFP s products generally require sophisticated models and
significant management assumptions to determine fair values and,
particularly during times of market disruption, the absence of
observable market data can result in fair values at any given
balance sheet date which are not indicative of the ultimate
settlement values of the products.

Beginning in 2007, AIGFP applied hedge accounting under
FAS 133 to certain of its interest rate swaps and foreign
currency forward contracts hedging its investments and
borrowings. As a result, AIGFP recognized in earnings the change
in the fair value on the hedged items attributable to the hedged
risks substantially offsetting the gains and losses on the
derivatives designated as hedges. Prior to 2007, AIGFP did not
apply hedge accounting under FAS 133 to any of its
derivatives or related assets and liabilities. For further
information on the effect of FAS 133 on AIGFP s
business, see Risk Management   Segment Risk
Management   Financial Services   Capital
Markets Derivative Transactions and Note 8 to Consolidated
Financial Statements.

Effective January 1, 2008, AIGFP elected to apply the fair
value option to all eligible assets and liabilities, other than
equity method investments. Electing the fair value option will
allow AIGFP to more closely align its earnings with the
economics of its transactions by recognizing the change in fair
value on its derivatives and the offsetting change in fair value
of the assets and liabilities being hedged concurrently through
earnings. The adoption of FAS 159 with respect to elections
made by AIGFP is currently being evaluated for the effect of
recently issued draft guidance by the FASB, anticipated to be
issued in final form in early 2008, and its potential effect on
AIG s consolidated financial statements.

Capital Markets Results

2007 and 2006 Comparison  

Capital Markets reported an operating loss in 2007 compared to
operating income in 2006, primarily due to fourth quarter 2007
unrealized market valuation losses related to AIGFP s super
senior credit default swap portfolio principally written on
multi-sector CDOs and an other-than-temporary impairment charge
on AIGFP s investment portfolio of CDOs of ABS. These
losses were partially offset by the effect of applying hedge
accounting to certain hedging activities beginning in 2007, as
described below, and net unrealized market gains related to
certain credit default swaps purchased against the AAA to
BBB-rated risk layers on portfolios of reference obligations.
AIGFP experienced higher transaction flow in 2007 in its rate
and currency products which contributed to its revenues.

The unrealized market valuation losses related to AIGFP s
super senior credit default swap portfolio, the preponderance of
which relates to credit derivatives written on multi-sector CDO
super senior tranches, were as follows:

Included in AIGFP s net operating loss was a net unrealized
market valuation gain of $401 million on certain credit
default swaps and embedded credit derivatives in credit-linked
notes in 2007. In these transactions, AIGFP purchased protection
at the AAA- to BBB-rated risk layers on portfolios of reference
obligations that include multi-sector CDO obligations.

During the fourth quarter of 2007, certain of AIGFP s
available for sale investments in super senior and AAA-rated
bonds issued by multi-sector CDOs experienced severe declines in
their fair value. As a result, AIGFP recorded an
other-than-temporary impairment charge in other income of
$643 million. Notwithstanding AIG s intent and ability
to hold such securities until they recover in value, and despite
structures which indicate that a substantial amount of the
securities should continue to perform in accordance with their
original terms, AIG concluded that it could not reasonably
assert that the recovery period would be temporary. See also
Invested Assets   Financial Services Invested Assets
and Note 3 to Consolidated Financial Statements.

The change in fair value of AIGFP s credit default swaps
that reference CDOs and the decline in fair value of its
investments in CDOs were caused by the significant widening in
spreads in the fourth quarter on asset-backed securities,
principally those related to U.S. residential mortgages, the
severe liquidity crisis affecting the structured finance markets
and the effects of rating agency downgrades on those securities.
AIG continues to believe that these unrealized market valuation
losses are not indicative of the losses AIGFP may realize over
time on this portfolio. Based upon its most current analyses,
AIG believes that any credit impairment losses realized over
time by AIGFP will not be material to AIG s consolidated
financial condition, although it is possible that such realized
losses could be material to AIG s consolidated results of
operations for an individual reporting period.

In addition, in 2007 AIGFP recognized a net gain of
$211 million related to hedging activities that did not
qualify for hedge accounting treatment under FAS 133,
compared to a net loss of $1.82 billion in 2006.

The year ended December 31, 2007 included an out of period
charge of $380 million to reverse net gains recognized in
previous periods on transfers of available for sale securities
among legal entities consolidated within AIGFP, and a
$166 million reduction in fair value at March 31, 2007
of certain derivatives that were an integral part of, and
economically hedge, the structured transac-

AIG 2007
Form  10-K          
83 

Table of Contents   

American International Group, Inc. and Subsidiaries

Management s Discussion and Analysis of 

Financial Condition and Results of
Operations    Continued  

tions that were potentially affected by the proposed regulations
issued by the U.S. Treasury Department discussed above in
Overview of Operations and Business Results   Outlook.
The net loss on AIGFP s derivatives recognized in 2006
included an out of period charge of $223 million related to
the remediation of the material weakness in internal control
over accounting for certain derivative transactions under
FAS 133. The net loss also reflects the effect of increases
in U.S. interest rates and a weakening of the
U.S. dollar on derivatives hedging AIGFP s assets and
liabilities.

Financial market conditions in 2007 were characterized by
increases in global interest rates, widening of credit spreads,
higher equity valuations and a slightly weaker U.S. dollar.

The most significant component of Capital Markets operating
expenses is compensation, which was approximately
$423 million, $544 million and $481 million in
2007, 2006 and 2005, respectively. The amount of compensation
was not affected by gains and losses arising from derivatives
not qualifying for hedge accounting treatment under
FAS 133. In light of the unrealized market valuation loss
related to the AIGFP super senior credit default swap portfolio,
to retain and motivate the affected AIGFP employees, a special
incentive plan relating to 2007 was established. Under this
plan, certain AIGFP employees were granted cash awards vesting
over two years and payable in 2013. The expense related to these
awards will be recognized ratably over the vesting period,
beginning in 2008.

AIG elected to early adopt FAS 155,  Accounting for
Certain Hybrid Financial Instruments  (FAS 155) in
2006. AIGFP elected to apply the fair value option permitted by
FAS 155 to its structured notes and other financial
liabilities containing embedded derivatives outstanding as of
January 1, 2006. The cumulative effect of the adoption of
FAS 155 on these instruments at January 1, 2006 was a
pre-tax loss of $29 million. AIGFP recognized a loss of
$351 million in 2007 and a loss of $287 million in
2006 on hybrid financial instruments for which it applied the
fair value option under FAS 155. These amounts were largely
offset by gains and losses on economic hedge positions also
reflected in AIGFP s operating income or loss.

2006 and 2005 Comparison  

Capital Markets reported an operating loss in 2006 compared to
operating income in 2005. Improved results, primarily from
increased transaction flow in AIGFP s credit, commodity
index, energy and equity products, were more than offset by the
loss resulting from the effect of derivatives not qualifying for
hedge accounting treatment under FAS 133. This loss was
$1.82 billion in 2006 compared to a gain of
$2.01 billion in 2005, a decrease of $3.83 billion. A
large part of the net loss on AIGFP s derivatives
recognized in 2006 was due to the weakening of the
U.S. dollar, primarily against the British Pound and Euro,
resulting in a decrease in the fair value of the foreign
currency derivatives hedging AIGFP s available for sale
securities. The majority of the net gain on AIGFP s
derivatives in 2005 was due to the strengthening of the
U.S. dollar, primarily against the British Pound and Euro,
which increased the fair value of the foreign currency
derivatives hedging available for sale securities. To a lesser
extent, the net gain in 2005 was due to the decrease in
long-term U.S. interest rates, which increased the fair
value of derivatives hedging AIGFP s assets and liabilities.

Financial market conditions in 2006 were characterized by a
general flattening of interest rate yield curves across fixed
income markets globally, tightening of credit spreads, higher
equity valuations and a weaker U.S. dollar.

Consumer Finance  

AIG s Consumer Finance operations in North America are
principally conducted through AGF. AGF derives a substantial
portion of its revenues from finance charges assessed on
outstanding real estate loans, secured and unsecured non-real
estate loans and retail sales finance receivables and
credit-related insurance.

AGF s finance receivables are primarily sourced through its
branches, although many of AGF s real estate loans are
sourced through its centralized real estate operations, which
include AGF s mortgage banking activities. The majority of
the real estate loans originated by AGF s mortgage banking
subsidiary are originated through broker relationships and are
sold to investors on a servicing-released basis. Beginning in
July 2003, AGF s mortgage banking subsidiaries originated
and sold loans through a services arrangement with AIG Federal
Savings Bank (AIG Bank), a federally chartered thrift and
non-subsidiary of AGF. The services relationship was terminated
in the first quarter of 2006. Since terminating the services
relationship with AIG Bank, AGF s mortgage banking
subsidiaries have originated these non-conforming real estate
loans using their own state licenses.

On June 7, 2007, AIG s domestic consumer finance
operations, consisting of AIG Bank, AGF s mortgage banking
subsidiary Wilmington Finance, Inc. (WFI) and AGF, entered into
a Supervisory Agreement with the OTS. The Supervisory Agreement
pertains to certain mortgage loans originated in the name of AIG
Bank from July 2003 through early May 2006 pursuant to the
services agreement between WFI and AIG Bank, which was
terminated in the first quarter of 2006. Pursuant to the terms
of the Supervisory Agreement, AIG Bank, WFI and AGF have
implemented a financial remediation program whereby certain
borrowers may be provided loans on more affordable terms and/or
reimbursed for certain fees. Pursuant to the requirements of the
Supervisory Agreement, the services of an external consultant
have been engaged to monitor, evaluate and periodically report
to the OTS on compliance with the remediation program. The
Supervisory Agreement will remain in effect until terminated,
modified, or suspended in writing by the OTS. Failure to comply
with the terms of the Agreement could result in the initiation
of formal enforcement action by the OTS. Separately, the
domestic consumer finance operations also committed to donate
$15 million over a three-year period to certain
not-for-profit organizations to support their efforts to promote
financial literacy and credit counseling.

Management s best estimate of the cost of implementing the
financial remediation plan contemplated by the Supervisory
Agreement, including the $15 million donation, was
$178 million which was recorded in 2007. The actual cost of
implementing the financial remediation plan may differ from this
estimate.

84         AIG
2007 Form  10-K 

Table of Contents   

American International Group, Inc. and Subsidiaries

AIG s foreign consumer finance operations are principally
conducted through AIG Consumer Finance Group, Inc. (AIGCFG).
AIGCFG operates primarily in emerging and developing markets.
AIGCFG has operations in Argentina, China, Hong Kong, Mexico,
Philippines, Poland, Taiwan and Thailand and began operations in
India in 2007 through the acquisition of a majority interest in
a sales finance lending operation and the acquisition of a
mortgage lending operation. In addition, in 2007, AIGCFG
expanded its distribution channels in Thailand by acquiring an
80 percent interest in a company with a network of over 130
branches for secured consumer lending. AIGCFG is continuously
exploring expansion opportunities in its existing operations as
well as new geographic locations throughout the world.

Certain of the AIGCFG operations are partly or wholly owned by
life insurance subsidiaries of AIG. Accordingly, the financial
results of those companies are allocated between Financial
Services and Life Insurance & Retirement Services
according to their ownership percentages. While products vary by
market, the businesses generally provide credit cards, unsecured
and secured non-real estate loans, term deposits, savings
accounts, retail sales finance and real estate loans. AIGCFG
originates finance receivables through its branches and direct
solicitation. AIGCFG also originates finance receivables
indirectly through relationships with retailers, auto dealers,
and independent agents.

Consumer Finance Results

2007 and 2006 Comparison  

Consumer Finance operating income decreased in 2007 compared to
2006. Operating income from the domestic consumer finance
operations, which include the operations of AGF and AIG Bank,
decreased by $509 million, or 77 percent, in 2007
compared to 2006. In 2007, domestic results were adversely
affected by the weakening housing market and tighter
underwriting guidelines, which resulted in lower originations of
real estate loans as well as the $178 million charge
discussed above.

AGF s revenues decreased $95 million or 3 percent
during 2007 compared to 2006. Revenues from AGF s mortgage
banking activities decreased $389 million during 2007
compared to 2006, which includes the charges relating to the
Supervisory Agreement. The decrease in revenues also reflects a
significantly reduced origination volume, lower yields based on
market conditions, tighter underwriting guidelines, reduced
margins on loans sold and higher warranty reserves, which cover
obligations to repurchase loans sold to third-party investors
should there be a first payment default or breach of
representations and warranties. AGF s revenues in 2007 also
included a recovery of $65 million from a favorable out of
court settlement.

AGF s operating income decreased in 2007 compared to 2006,
due to reduced residential mortgage origination volumes, lower
revenues from its mortgage banking activities and increases in
the provision for finance receivable losses. AGF s interest
expense increased by $81 million or seven percent as
its borrowing rate increased in 2007 compared to 2006. During
2007, AGF recorded a net loss of $28 million on its
derivatives that did not qualify for hedge accounting under
FAS 133, including the related foreign exchange losses,
compared to a net loss of $89 million in 2006. Commencing
in the second quarter of 2007, AGF began applying hedge
accounting.

AGF s net finance receivables totaled $25.5 billion at
December 31, 2007, an increase of approximately
$1.2 billion compared to December 31, 2006, including
$19.5 billion of real estate secured loans, most of which
were underwritten with full income verification. The increase in
the net finance receivables resulted in a similar increase in
revenues generated from these assets.

Although real estate loan originations declined in 2007, the
softening of home price appreciation (reducing the equity
customers may be able to extract from their homes by
refinancing) contributed to an increase in non-real estate loans
of 11 percent at December 31, 2007 compared to
December 31, 2006. Retail sales finance receivables also
increased 13 percent compared to December 31, 2006 due
to increased marketing efforts and customer demand. AGF s
centralized real estate operations finance receivables were
essentially unchanged while branch business segment finance
receivables increased by 8 percent during 2007.

AGF s allowance for finance receivable losses as a
percentage of outstanding receivables was 2.36 percent at
December 31, 2007 compared to 2.01 percent at
December 31, 2006.

Revenues from the foreign consumer finance operations increased
by 29 percent in 2007 compared to 2006. Loan growth,
particularly in Poland, Thailand and Latin America, was the
primary driver of the increased revenues. The increase in
revenues was more than offset by higher expenses associated with
branch expansions, acquisition activities and product promotion
campaigns. Operating income in 2006 reflects AIGCFG s
$47 million share of the allowance for losses related to
industry-wide credit deterioration in the Taiwan credit card
market.

2006 and 2005 Comparison  

Consumer Finance operating income decreased in 2006 compared to
2005. Operating income from domestic consumer finance operations
declined by $193 million, or 23 percent as a result of
decreased originations and purchases of real estate loans and
margin compression resulting from increased interest rates and
flattened yield curves. The foreign operations operating income
decreased primarily due to the credit deterioration in the
Taiwan credit card market.

Domestically, the U.S. housing market deteriorated
throughout 2006 and as a result, the real estate loan portfolio
decreased slightly during 2006 due to lower refinancing
activity. This lower refinancing activity also caused a
significant decrease in originations and whole loan sales in
AGF s mortgage banking operation, which resulted in a
substantial reduction of revenue and operating income compared
to the prior year. However, softening home prices (reducing the
equity customers are able to extract from their homes when
refinancing) and higher mortgage rates contributed to customers
utilizing non-real estate loans, which increased 10 percent
compared to 2005. Retail sales finance receivables also
increased 23 percent due to increased marketing efforts and
customer demand. Higher revenue resulting from portfolio growth
was more than offset by higher interest expense. AGF s
short-term borrowing rates were 5.14 percent in 2006
compared to

AIG 2007
Form  10-K          
85 

Table of Contents   

American International Group, Inc. and Subsidiaries

Management s Discussion and Analysis of 

Financial Condition and Results of
Operations    Continued  

3.58 percent in 2005. AGF s long-term borrowing rates
were 5.05 percent in 2006 compared to 4.41 percent in
2005. During 2006, AGF recorded a net loss of $89 million
on its derivatives that did not qualify for hedge accounting
under FAS 133, including the related foreign exchange
losses, compared to a net gain of $69 million in 2005.
AGF s net charge-off ratio improved to 0.95 percent in
2006 from 1.19 percent in 2005. The improvement in the net
charge-off ratio in 2006 was primarily due to positive economic
fundamentals. The U.S. economy continued to expand during
the year, and the unemployment rate remained low, which improved
the credit quality of AGF s portfolio. AGF s
delinquency ratio remained relatively low, although it increased
to 2.06 percent at December 31, 2006 from
1.93 percent at December 31, 2005. AGF reduced the
hurricane Katrina portion of its allowance for finance
receivable losses to $15 million at December 31, 2006
after the reevaluation of its remaining estimated losses.
AGF s allowance ratio was 2.01 percent at
December 31, 2006 compared to 2.20 percent at
December 31, 2005.

Revenues from the foreign consumer finance operations increased
by approximately 13 percent in 2006 compared to 2005. Loan
growth, particularly in Poland and Argentina, was the primary
driver behind the higher revenues. Higher revenues were more
than offset, however, by AIGCFG s $47 million share of
the allowance for losses related to industrywide credit
deterioration in the Taiwan credit card market, increased cost
of funds, and higher operating expenses in connection with
expansion into new markets and distribution channels and new
product promotions, resulting in lower operating income in 2006
compared to 2005.

Asset Management Operations

AIG s Asset Management operations comprise a wide variety
of investment-related services and investment products. Such
services and products are offered to individuals, pension funds
and institutions (including AIG subsidiaries) globally through
AIG s Spread-Based Investment business, Institutional Asset
Management and Brokerage Services and Mutual Funds businesses.
Also included in Asset Management operations are the results of
certain SunAmerica sponsored partnership investments.

The revenues and operating income for this segment are affected
by the general conditions in the equity and credit markets. In
addition, net realized gains and performance fees are contingent
upon various fund closings, maturity levels and market
conditions.

Asset Management Results 

Asset Management results were as
follows:  

*   
     
     Includes the effect of consolidating the revenues and
    operating loss of warehoused investments totaling
    $778 million and $164 million, respectively, in 2007,
    a portion of which is offset in minority interest expense.  

2007 and 2006 Comparison  

Asset Management revenues increased in 2007 compared to 2006
primarily due to increased partnership income, management fees,
carried interest and the effect of consolidating several
warehoused investments. AIG consolidates the operating results
of warehoused investments until such time as they are sold or
otherwise divested.

Asset Management operating income decreased in 2007 compared to
2006, due to foreign exchange, interest rate and credit-related
mark to market losses and other-than-temporary impairment
charges on fixed income investments. These other-than-temporary
impairment charges were due primarily to changes in market
liquidity and spreads. Partially offsetting these decreases were
higher partnership income, increased gains on real estate
investments and a gain on the sale of a portion of AIG s
investment in Blackstone Group, L.P. in connection with its
initial public offering.

In order to better align financial reporting with the manner in
which AIG s chief operating decision makers manage their
businesses, beginning in 2007, net realized capital gains and
losses, and foreign exchange transaction gains and losses, which
were previously reported as part of AIG s Other category,
are now included in Asset Management revenues and operating
income. In addition, revenues and operating income related to
foreign

86         AIG
2007 Form  10-K 

Table of Contents   

American International Group, Inc. and Subsidiaries

investment-type contracts, which were historically reported as a
component of the Spread-Based Investment business, are now
reported in the Life Insurance & Retirement Services
segment. Also, commencing in 2007, the effect of consolidating
managed partnerships and funds, which were historically reported
as a component of the Institutional Asset Management business,
are now reported in the Consolidation and eliminations category.
Prior period amounts have been revised to conform to the current
presentation.

2006 and 2005 Comparison  

Asset Management operating income decreased in 2006 compared to
2005 as a decline in Spread-Based Investment operating income
was partially offset by higher Institutional Asset Management
operating income.

Spread-Based Investment Business Results

2007 and 2006 Comparison  

The Spread-Based Investment business reported an operating loss
in 2007 compared to operating income in 2006 due to foreign
exchange, interest rate and credit-related mark to market losses
and other-than-temporary impairment charges on fixed income
investments, partially offset by increased partnership income.
In 2007, the GIC program incurred foreign exchange losses of
$526 million on foreign-denominated GIC reserves. Partially
offsetting these losses were $269 million of net mark to
market gains on derivative positions. These net gains included
mark to market gains on foreign exchange derivatives used to
economically hedge the effect of foreign exchange rate movements
on foreign-denominated GIC reserves and mark to market losses on
interest rate hedges that did not qualify for hedge accounting
treatment.

The MIP experienced mark to market losses of $193 million
due to interest rate and foreign exchange derivative positions
that, while partially effective in hedging interest rate and
foreign exchange risk, did not qualify for hedge accounting
treatment and an additional $98 million due to credit
default swap losses. The MIP credit default swaps are comprised
of single-name high-grade corporate exposures. AIG enters into
hedging arrangements to mitigate the effect of changes in
currency and interest rates associated with the fixed and
floating rate and foreign currency denominated obligations
issued under these programs. Some of these hedging relationships
qualify for hedge accounting treatment, while others do not.
Commencing in the first quarter of 2007, AIG applied hedge
accounting to certain derivative transactions related to the
MIP. Income or loss from these hedges not qualifying for hedge
accounting treatment are classified as net realized capital
gains (losses) in AIG s Consolidated Statement of Income.
The mark to market losses for 2007 were driven primarily by a
decline in short-term interest rates, the decline in the value
of the U.S. dollar and widening credit spreads.

Also contributing to the operating loss were
other-than-temporary impairment charges on various fixed income
investments held in the GIC and MIP portfolios of approximately
$836 million as a result of movements in credit spreads and
decreased market liquidity. See Invested Assets  
Other-than-temporary impairments. These losses were partially
offset by an increase in partnership income associated with the
GIC. In addition to other-than-temporary impairments, unrealized
losses on fixed income investments were driven by widening
credit spreads, partially offset by gains due to falling
interest rates. These unrealized losses are recorded in
Accumulated other comprehensive income (loss).

During 2007, AIG has issued the equivalent of $8.1 billion
of securities to fund the MIP in the Euromarkets and the
U.S. public and private markets compared to
$5.3 billion issued in 2006. At December 31, 2007,
total issuances were $13.4 billion.

The following table illustrates the anticipated runoff of the
domestic GIC portfolio at December 31, 2007: 

2006 and 2005 Comparison  

Operating income related to the Spread-Based Investment business
declined in 2006 compared to 2005 due primarily to the continued
runoff of GIC balances and spread compression related to
increases in short-term interest rates. A significant portion of
the remaining GIC portfolio consists of floating rate
obligations. AIG has entered into hedges to manage against
increases in short-term interest rates. AIG believes these
hedges are economically effective, but they did not qualify for
hedge accounting treatment. The decline in operating income was
partially offset by improved partnership income, particularly
during the fourth quarter of 2006.

Institutional Asset Management Results

2007 and 2006 Comparison  

Operating income for Institutional Asset Management increased in
2007 compared to 2006 reflecting increased carried interest
revenues driven by higher valuations of portfolio investments
that are generally associated with improved performance in the
equity markets. The increase also reflects a $398 million
gain from the sale of a portion of AIG s investment in
Blackstone Group, L.P. in connection with its initial public
offering. Also contributing to this increase were higher base
management fees driven by higher levels of third-party assets
under management. Partially offsetting these increases were the
operating losses from warehousing activities. The consolidated
warehoused private equity investments are not wholly owned by
AIG and thus, a significant portion of the effect of
consolidating these operating losses is offset in minority
interest, which is not a component of operating income.

AIG s unaffiliated client assets under management,
including retail mutual funds and institutional accounts,
increased 26 percent to $94.2 billion at December 31, 2007
compared to December 31, 2006. Additionally, AIG
Investments successfully launched several new private equity and
real estate funds in 2007, which provide both a base management
fee and the opportunity for future incentive fees.

AIG 2007
Form  10-K          
87 

Table of Contents   

American International Group, Inc. and Subsidiaries

Management s Discussion and Analysis of 

Financial Condition and Results of
Operations    Continued  

While unaffiliated client assets under management and the
resulting management fees continue to increase, the growth in
operating income has trailed the growth in revenues due to the
additional costs associated with warehousing activities as well
as the costs associated with sales and infrastructure
enhancements. The sales and infrastructure enhancements are
associated with AIG s planned expansion of marketing and
distribution capabilities, combined with technology and
operational infrastructure-related improvements.

2006 and 2005 Comparison  

Operating income related to Institutional Asset Management
increased in 2006 compared to 2005, primarily due to realized
gains on real estate transactions as well as increased
management fees. AIG s unaffiliated client assets under
management, including both retail mutual funds and institutional
accounts, increased 21 percent from year-end 2005 to
$75 billion, resulting in higher management fee income.
Partially offsetting this growth were lower carried interest on
private equity investments, and higher expenses related to the
planned expansion of marketing and distribution capabilities,
combined with technology and operational infrastructure-related
enhancements.

Other Operations

The operating loss of AIG s Other
category for the years ended December 31, 2007, 2006 and
2005 was as follows:  

*   
     
     Includes expenses of corporate staff not attributable to
    specific business segments, expenses related to efforts to
    improve internal controls, corporate initiatives and certain
    compensation plan expenses.  

2007 and 2006 Comparison 

The operating loss of AIG s Other category increased in
2007 compared to 2006 reflecting higher interest expense that
resulted from increased borrowings, higher unallocated corporate
expenses and foreign exchange losses on foreign-denominated
debt, a portion of which was economically hedged but did not
qualify for hedge accounting treatment under FAS 133. In
addition, Net realized capital gains (losses) in 2007 included
an other-than-temporary impairment charge of $144 million
related to an investment in a partially owned company and
foreign exchange losses of $221 million on unhedged debt.

The operating loss in 2006 for AIG s Other category
included an out of period charge of $61 million related to
the SICO Plans and a one-time charge related to the Starr tender
offer of $54 million. For a further discussion of these
items, see Note 19 to Consolidated Financial Statements.

In 2007, no compensation cost was recognized, and compensation
cost recognized in 2006 was reversed, with respect to awards
under the Partners Plan because the performance threshold was
not met. The amounts earned under the AIG Partners Plan will be
determined by the Compensation Committee in the first quarter of
2008.

In order to better align financial reporting with the manner in
which AIG s chief operating decision makers manage their
businesses, beginning in 2007, derivative gains and losses and
foreign exchange transaction gains and losses for Asset
Management and Financial Services entities (other than AIGFP)
are now included in Asset Management and Financial Services
revenues and operating income. These amounts were previously
reported as part of AIG s Other category. Prior period
amounts have been revised to conform to the current presentation.

2006 and 2005 Comparison 

Operating loss for AIG s Other category declined in 2006
compared to 2005, reflecting the regulatory settlement costs of
$1.6 billion in 2005, as described under Item 3. Legal
Proceedings, offset by increased interest expense in 2006 as a
result of increased borrowings by the parent holding company and
realized capital losses of $37 million. These declines were
partially offset by increased equity earnings in certain
partially owned companies.

Capital Resources and
Liquidity  

At December 31, 2007, AIG had total consolidated
shareholders  equity of $95.8 billion and total
consolidated borrowings of $176.0 billion. At that date,
$67.9 billion of such borrowings were subsidiary borrowings
not guaranteed by AIG.

In 2007, AIG issued an aggregate of $5.6 billion of junior
subordinated debentures in five series of securities.
Substantially all of the proceeds from these sales, net of
expenses, are being used to purchase shares of AIG s common
stock. A total of 76,361,209 shares were purchased during
2007.

88         AIG
2007 Form  10-K 

Table of Contents   

American International Group, Inc. and Subsidiaries

Borrowings

Total borrowings at December 31,
2007 and 2006 were as follows:  

(a)   
     
     Represents structured notes issued by AIGFP that are
    accounted for using the fair value option.  

(b)   
     
     Includes borrowings under Export Credit Facility of
    $2.5 billion and $2.7 billion at December 31,
    2007 and 2006, respectively.  

(c)   
     
     Represents commercial paper issued by a variable interest
    entity secured by receivables of A.I. Credit.  

(d)   
     
     In 2007, increases in borrowings compared to 2006 were
    principally attributable to warehousing activities.  

AIG 2007
Form  10-K          
89 

Table of Contents   

American International Group, Inc. and Subsidiaries

Management s Discussion and Analysis of 

Financial Condition and Results of
Operations    Continued  

At December 31, 2007 and 2006,
AIG s net borrowings amounted to $20.3 billion and
$15.4 billion, respectively, as follows:  

*   
     
     Represents structured notes issued by AIGFP that are
    accounted for at fair value.  

A roll forward of long-term borrowings,
excluding borrowings of consolidated investments, for the year
ended December 31, 2007 is as follows:  

AIG (Parent Company) 

AIG intends to continue its customary practice of issuing debt
securities from time to time to meet its financing needs and
those of certain of its subsidiaries for general corporate
purposes, as well as for the MIP. As of December 31, 2007,
AIG had up to $17.5 billion of debt securities, preferred
stock and other securities, and up to $12.0 billion of
common stock, registered and available for issuance under its
universal shelf registration statement.

AIG maintains a medium-term note program under its shelf
registration statement. As of December 31, 2007,
approximately $7.3 billion principal amount of senior notes
were outstanding under the medium-term note program, of which
$3.2 billion was used for AIG s general corporate
purposes, $873 million was used by AIGFP (referred to as
 Series AIGFP  in the preceding tables) and
$3.2 billion was used to fund the MIP. The maturity dates
of these notes range from 2008 to 2052. To the extent deemed
appropriate, AIG may enter into swap transactions to manage its
effective borrowing rates with respect to these notes.

AIG also maintains a Euro medium-term note program under which
an aggregate nominal amount of up to $20.0 billion of
senior notes may be outstanding at any one time. As of
December 31, 2007, the equivalent of $12.7 billion of
notes were outstanding under the program, of which
$9.8 billion were used to fund the MIP and the remainder
was used for AIG s general

90         AIG
2007 Form  10-K 

Table of Contents   

American International Group, Inc. and Subsidiaries

corporate purposes. The aggregate amount outstanding includes
$1.1 billion loss resulting from foreign exchange
translation into U.S. dollars, of which $332 million
loss relates to notes issued by AIG for general corporate
purposes and $726 million loss relates to notes issued to
fund the MIP. AIG has economically hedged the currency exposure
arising from its foreign currency denominated notes.

During 2007, AIG issued in Rule 144A offerings an aggregate
of $3.0 billion principal amount of senior notes, of which
$650 million was used to fund the MIP and $2.3 billion
was used for AIG s general corporate purposes.

AIG maintains a shelf registration statement in Japan, providing
for the issuance of up to Japanese Yen 300 billion
principal amount of senior notes, of which the equivalent of
$450 million was outstanding as of December 31, 2007
and was used for AIG s general corporate purposes. AIG also
maintains an Australian dollar debt program under which senior
notes with an aggregate principal amount of up to 5 billion
Australian dollars may be outstanding at any one time. Although
as of December 31, 2007 there were no outstanding notes
under the Australian program, AIG intends to use the program
opportunistically to fund the MIP or for AIG s general
corporate purposes.

During 2007, AIG issued an aggregate of $5.6 billion of
junior subordinated debentures in five series of securities.
Substantially all of the proceeds from these sales, net of
expenses, are being used to repurchase shares of AIG s
common stock. In connection with each series of junior
subordinated debentures, AIG entered into a Replacement Capital
Covenant (RCC) for the benefit of the holders of AIG s
6.25 percent senior notes due 2036. The RCCs provide that
AIG will not repay, redeem, or purchase the applicable series of
junior subordinated debentures on or before a specified date,
unless AIG has received qualifying proceeds from the sale of
replacement capital securities.

In October 2007, AIG borrowed a total of $500 million on an
unsecured basis pursuant to a loan agreement with a third-party
bank. The entire amount of the loan remained outstanding at
December 31, 2007 and matures in October 2008.

AIG began applying hedge accounting for certain AIG parent
transactions in the first quarter of 2007.

AIGFP 

AIGFP uses the proceeds from the issuance of notes and bonds and
GIA borrowings, as well as the issuance of Series AIGFP notes by
AIG, to invest in a diversified portfolio of securities and
derivative transactions. The borrowings may also be temporarily
invested in securities purchased under agreements to resell.
AIGFP s notes and bonds include structured debt instruments
whose payment terms are linked to one or more financial or other
indices (such as an equity index or commodity index or another
measure that is not considered to be clearly and closely related
to the debt instrument). These notes contain embedded
derivatives that otherwise would be required to be accounted for
separately under FAS 133. Upon AIG s early adoption of
FAS 155, AIGFP elected the fair value option for these
notes. The notes that are accounted for using the fair value
option are reported separately under hybrid financial instrument
liabilities. AIG guarantees the obligations of AIGFP under
AIGFP s notes and bonds and GIA borrowings. See Liquidity
herein and Note 8 to Consolidated Financial Statements.

AIGFP has a Euro medium-term note program under which an
aggregate nominal amount of up to $20.0 billion of notes
may be outstanding at any one time. As of December 31,
2007, $6.2 billion of notes were outstanding under the
program. The notes issued under this program are guaranteed by
AIG and are included in AIGFP s notes and bonds payable in
the table of total borrowings.

AIG Funding 

AIG Funding, Inc. (AIG Funding) issues commercial paper that is
guaranteed by AIG in order to help fulfill the short-term cash
requirements of AIG and its subsidiaries. The issuance of AIG
Funding s commercial paper, including the guarantee by AIG,
is subject to the approval of AIG s Board of Directors or
the Finance Committee of the Board if it exceeds certain
pre-approved limits.

As backup for the commercial paper program and for other general
corporate purposes, AIG and AIG Funding maintain revolving
credit facilities, which, as of December 31, 2007, had an
aggregate of $9.3 billion available to be drawn and which
are summarized below under Revolving Credit Facilities.

ILFC 

ILFC fulfills its short-term cash requirements through operating
cash flows and the issuance of commercial paper. The issuance of
commercial paper is subject to the approval of ILFC s Board
of Directors and is not guaranteed by AIG. ILFC maintains
syndicated revolving credit facilities which, as of
December 31, 2007, totaled $6.5 billion and which are
summarized below under Revolving Credit Facilities. These
facilities are used as back up for ILFC s maturing debt and
other obligations.

As a well-known seasoned issuer, ILFC has filed an automatic
shelf registration statement with the SEC allowing ILFC
immediate access to the U.S. public debt markets. At
December 31, 2007, $4.7 billion of debt securities had
been issued under this registration statement and
$5.9 billion had been issued under a prior registration
statement. In addition, ILFC has a Euro medium- term note
program for $7.0 billion, under which $3.8 billion in
notes were outstanding at December 31, 2007. Notes issued
under the Euro medium-term note program are included in ILFC
notes and bonds payable in the preceding table of borrowings.
The cumulative foreign exchange adjustment loss for the foreign
currency denominated debt resulting from the effect of hedging
activities that did not qualify for hedge accounting treatment
under FAS 133 was $969 million at December 31,
2007 and $733 million at December 31, 2006. ILFC has
substantially eliminated the currency exposure arising from
foreign currency denominated notes by economically hedging the
portion of the note exposure not already offset by
Euro-denominated operating lease payments.

ILFC had a $4.3 billion Export Credit Facility for use in
connection with the purchase of approximately 75 aircraft
delivered through 2001. This facility was guaranteed by various
European Export Credit Agencies. The interest rate varies from

AIG 2007
Form  10-K          
91 

Table of Contents   

American International Group, Inc. and Subsidiaries

Management s Discussion and Analysis of 

Financial Condition and Results of
Operations    Continued  

5.75 percent to 5.90 percent on these amortizing
ten-year borrowings depending on the delivery date of the
aircraft. At December 31, 2007, ILFC had $664 million
outstanding under this facility. The debt is collateralized by a
pledge of the shares of a subsidiary of ILFC, which holds title
to the aircraft financed under the facility.

In May 2004, ILFC entered into a similarly structured Export
Credit Facility for up to a maximum of $2.6 billion for
Airbus aircraft to be delivered through May 31, 2005. The
facility was subsequently increased to $3.6 billion and
extended to include aircraft to be delivered through
May 31, 2008. The facility becomes available as the various
European Export Credit Agencies provide their guarantees for
aircraft based on a nine-month forward-looking calendar, and the
interest rate is determined through a bid process. At
December 31, 2007, ILFC had $1.9 billion outstanding
under this facility. Borrowings with respect to these facilities
are included in ILFC s notes and bonds payable in the
preceding table of borrowings. The debt is collateralized by a
pledge of shares of a subsidiary of ILFC, which holds title to
the aircraft financed under the facility.

From time to time, ILFC enters into funded financing agreements.
As of December 31, 2007, ILFC had a total of
$1.1 billion outstanding, which has varying maturities
through February 2012. The interest rates are LIBOR-based, with
spreads ranging from 0.30 percent to 1.625 percent.

The proceeds of ILFC s debt financing are primarily used to
purchase flight equipment, including progress payments during
the construction phase. The primary sources for the repayment of
this debt and the interest expense thereon are the cash flow
from operations, proceeds from the sale of flight equipment and
the rollover and refinancing of the prior debt. AIG does not
guarantee the debt obligations of ILFC. See also Liquidity
herein.

AGF 

AGF fulfills most of its short-term cash borrowing requirements
through the issuance of commercial paper. The issuance of
commercial paper is subject to the approval of AGF s Board
of Directors and is not guaranteed by AIG. AGF maintains
committed syndicated revolving credit facilities which, as of
December 31, 2007, totaled $4.8 billion and which are
summarized below under Revolving Credit Facilities. The
facilities can be used for general corporate purposes and to
provide backup for AGF s commercial paper programs.

In January 2007, AGF issued junior subordinated debentures in an
aggregate principal amount of $350 million that mature in
January 2067. The debentures underlie a series of trust
preferred securities sold by a trust sponsored by AGF in a
Rule 144A/ Regulation S offering. AGF can redeem the
debentures at par beginning in January 2017.

As of December 31, 2007, notes and bonds aggregating
$22.4 billion were outstanding with maturity dates ranging
from 2008 to 2031 at interest rates ranging from
1.94 percent to 8.45 percent. To the extent deemed
appropriate, AGF may enter into swap transactions to manage its
effective borrowing rates with respect to these notes and bonds.
As a well-known seasoned issuer, AGF filed an automatic shelf
registration statement with the SEC allowing AGF immediate
access to the U.S. public debt markets. At
December 31, 2007, AGF had remaining corporate
authorization to issue up to $8.1 billion of debt
securities under its shelf registration statements.

AGF s funding sources include a medium-term note program,
private placement debt, retail note issuances, bank financing
and securitizations of finance receivables that AGF accounts for
as on-balance-sheet secured financings. In addition, AGF has
become an established issuer of long-term debt in the
international capital markets.

In addition to debt refinancing activities, proceeds from the
collection of finance receivables are used to fund cash needs
including the payment of principal and interest on AGF s
debt. AIG does not guarantee any of the debt obligations of AGF.
See also Liquidity.

AIGCFG 

AIGCFG has a variety of funding mechanisms for its various
markets, including retail and wholesale deposits, short and
long-term bank loans, securitizations and intercompany
subordinated debt. AIG Credit Card Company (Taiwan), a consumer
finance business in Taiwan, and AIG Retail Bank PLC, a full
service consumer bank in Thailand, have issued commercial paper
for the funding of their respective operations. AIG does not
guarantee any borrowings for AIGCFG businesses, including this
commercial paper.

92         AIG
2007 Form  10-K 

Table of Contents   

American International Group, Inc. and Subsidiaries

Revolving Credit Facilities 

AIG, ILFC and AGF maintain committed, unsecured revolving credit
facilities listed on the table below in order to support their
respective commercial paper programs and for general corporate
purposes. AIG, ILFC and AGF expect to replace or extend these
credit facilities on or prior to their expiration. Some of the
facilities, as noted below, contain a  term-out
option  allowing for the conversion by the borrower of any
outstanding loans at expiration into one-year term loans.

As of December 31, 2007  (in millions) 

(a)  
     
     Guaranteed by AIG.  

(b)  
     
     This facility can be drawn in the form of loans or letters of
    credit. All drawn amounts shown above are in the form of letters
    of credit.  

(c)  
     
     Subsidiaries of AIG are the lenders on this facility.  

(d)  
     
     American General Finance, Inc. is an eligible borrower for up
    to $400 million only.  

Credit Ratings 

The cost and availability of unsecured financing for AIG and its
subsidiaries are generally dependent on their short-and
long-term debt ratings. The following table presents the credit
ratings of AIG and certain of its subsidiaries as of
February 15, 2008. In parentheses, following the initial
occurrence in the table of each rating, is an indication of that
rating s relative rank within the agency s rating
categories. That ranking refers only to the generic or major
rating category and not to the modifiers appended to the rating
by the rating agencies to denote relative position within such
generic or major category.

(a)  
     
     Moody s Investors Service (Moody s) appends
    numerical modifiers 1, 2 and 3 to the generic rating
    categories to show relative position within rating
    categories.  

(b)  
     
     Standard & Poor s, a division of the
    McGraw-Hill Companies (S&P) ratings may be modified by the
    addition of a plus or minus sign to show relative standing
    within the major rating categories.  

(c)  
     
     Fitch Ratings (Fitch) ratings may be modified by the addition
    of a plus or minus sign to show relative standing within the
    major rating categories.  

(d)  
     
     AIG guarantees all obligations of AIG Financial Products
    Corp. and AIG Funding, Inc.  

(e)  
     
     Negative rating outlook on Senior Unsecured Debt Ratings. A
    negative outlook by Moody s indicates that a rating may be
    lowered but is not necessarily a precursor of a ratings
    change.  

(f)  
     
     Negative rating outlook on Counterparty Credit Ratings. A
    negative outlook by S&P indicates that a rating may be
    lowered but is not necessarily a precursor of a ratings
    change.  

(g)  
     
     Negative rating outlook on Corporate Credit Rating. A
    negative outlook by S&P indicates that a rating may be
    lowered but is not necessarily a precursor of a ratings
    change.  

(h)  
     
     Issuer Default and Senior Unsecured Debt Ratings on Rating
    Watch Negative. Rating Watch Negative indicates that a rating
    has been placed on active rating watch status.  

AIG 2007
Form  10-K          
93 

Table of Contents   

American International Group, Inc. and Subsidiaries

Management s Discussion and Analysis of 

Financial Condition and Results of
Operations    Continued  

These credit ratings are current opinions of the rating
agencies. As such, they may be changed, suspended or withdrawn
at any time by the rating agencies as a result of changes in, or
unavailability of, information or based on other circumstances.
Ratings may also be withdrawn at AIG management s request.
This discussion of ratings is not a complete list of ratings of
AIG and its subsidiaries.

Ratings triggers  have been defined by one
independent rating agency to include clauses or agreements the
outcome of which depends upon the level of ratings maintained by
one or more rating agencies.  Ratings triggers 
generally relate to events which (i) could result in the
termination or limitation of credit availability, or require
accelerated repayment, (ii) could result in the termination
of business contracts or (iii) could require a company to
post collateral for the benefit of counterparties.

AIG believes that any of its own or its subsidiaries 
contractual obligations that are subject to  ratings
triggers  or financial covenants relating to  ratings
triggers  would not have a material adverse effect on its
financial condition or liquidity. Ratings downgrades could also
trigger the application of termination provisions in certain of
AIG s contracts, principally agreements entered into by
AIGFP and assumed reinsurance contracts entered into by
Transatlantic.

It is estimated that, as of the close of business on
February 14, 2008, based on AIGFP s outstanding
municipal GIAs and financial derivatives transactions as of such
date, a downgrade of AIG s long-term senior debt ratings to
 Aa3  by Moody s or  AA     by
S&P would permit counterparties to call for approximately
$1.39 billion of collateral. Further, additional downgrades
could result in requirements for substantial additional
collateral, which could have a material effect on how AIGFP
manages its liquidity. The actual amount of additional
collateral that AIGFP would be required to post to
counterparties in the event of such downgrades depends on market
conditions, the fair value of the outstanding affected
transactions and other factors prevailing at the time of the
downgrade. Additional obligations to post collateral would
increase the demand on AIGFP s liquidity.

94         AIG
2007 Form  10-K 

Table of Contents   

American International Group, Inc. and Subsidiaries

Contractual Obligations 

Contractual obligations in total, and
by remaining maturity at December 31, 2007 were as
follows:  

(a)  
     
     Excludes commercial paper and borrowings incurred by
    consolidated investments and includes hybrid financial
    instrument liabilities recorded at fair value.  

(b)  
     
     Represents future loss and loss adjustment expense payments
    estimated based on historical loss development payment patterns.
    Due to the significance of the assumptions used, the periodic
    amounts presented could be materially different from actual
    required payments.  

(c)  
     
     Insurance and investment contract liabilities include various
    investment-type products with contractually scheduled
    maturities, including periodic payments of a term certain
    nature. Insurance and investment contract liabilities also
    include benefit and claim liabilities, of which a significant
    portion represents policies and contracts that do not have
    stated contractual maturity dates and may not result in any
    future payment obligations. For these policies and contracts
    (i) AIG is currently not making payments until the
    occurrence of an insurable event, such as death or disability,
    (ii) payments are conditional on survivorship, or
    (iii) payment may occur due to a surrender or other
    non-scheduled event out of AIG s control. AIG has made
    significant assumptions to determine the estimated undiscounted
    cash flows of these contractual policy benefits, which
    assumptions include mortality, morbidity, future lapse rates,
    expenses, investment returns and interest crediting rates,
    offset by expected future deposits and premium on in-force
    policies. Due to the significance of the assumptions used, the
    periodic amounts presented could be materially different from
    actual required payments. The amounts presented in this table
    are undiscounted and therefore exceed the future policy benefits
    and policyholder contract deposits included in the balance
    sheet.  

(d)  
     
     Represents guaranteed maturities under GICs.  

(e)  
     
     Includes a $1.0 billion commitment to purchase shares
    under AIG s share repurchase program which was paid in
    January 2008 and options to acquire aircraft.  

(f)  
     
     Does not reflect unrecognized tax benefits of
    $1.3 billion, the timing of which is uncertain. However, it
    is reasonably possible that $50 million to
    $150 million may become payable during 2008. See
    Note 21 to Consolidated Financial Statements for a
    discussion on unrecognized tax benefits.  

Off Balance Sheet Arrangements and Commercial Commitments 

Off Balance Sheet Arrangements and
Commercial Commitments in total, and by remaining maturity at
December 31, 2007 were as follows:  

(a)  
     
     Primarily liquidity facilities provided in connection with
    certain municipal swap transactions and collateralized bond
    obligations.  

(b)  
     
     Primarily AIG SunAmerica construction guarantees connected to
    affordable housing investments.  

(c)  
     
     Includes commitments to invest in limited partnerships,
    private equity, hedge funds and mutual funds and commitments to
    purchase and develop real estate in the United States and
    abroad.  

(d)  
     
     Written generally with respect to investments in hedge funds
    and funds of hedge funds.  

(e)  
     
     Represents obligations under 2a-7 Puts to purchase
    certain multi-sector CDOs at pre-determined contractual
    prices.  

(f)  
     
     Excludes commitments with respect to pension plans. The
    annual pension contribution for 2008 is expected to be
    approximately $118 million for U.S. and
     non-U.S.  plans.  

AIG 2007
Form  10-K          
95 

Table of Contents   

American International Group, Inc. and Subsidiaries

Management s Discussion and Analysis of 

Financial Condition and Results of
Operations    Continued  

Arrangements with Variable Interest Entities 

AIG enters into various off-balance-sheet (unconsolidated)
arrangements with variable interest entities (VIEs) in the
normal course of business. AIG s involvement with VIEs
ranges from being a passive investor to designing and
structuring, warehousing and managing the collateral of VIEs.
AIG engages in transactions with VIEs as part of its investment
activities to obtain funding and to facilitate client needs. AIG
purchases debt securities (rated and unrated) and equity
interests issued by VIEs, makes loans and provides other credit
support to VIEs, enters into insurance, reinsurance and
derivative transactions and leasing arrangements with VIEs, and
acts as the warehouse agent and collateral manager for VIEs.

Under FIN 46(R), AIG consolidates a VIE when it is the
primary beneficiary of the entity. The primary beneficiary is
the party that either (i) absorbs a majority of the
VIE s expected losses; (ii) receives a majority of the
VIE s expected residual returns; or (iii) both. For a
further discussion of AIG s involvement with VIEs, see
Note 7 of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements.

A significant portion of AIG s overall exposure to VIEs
results from AIG Investment s real estate and investment
funds.

In certain instances, AIG Investments acts as the collateral
manager or general partner of an investment fund, private equity
fund or hedge fund. Such entities are typically registered
investment companies or qualify for the specialized investment
company accounting in accordance with the AICPA Investment
Company Audit and Accounting Guide. For investment partnerships,
hedge funds and private equity funds, AIG acts as the general
partner or manager of the fund and is responsible for carrying
out the investment mandate of the VIE. Often, AIG s
insurance operations participate in these AIG managed structures
as a passive investor in the debt or equity issued by the VIE.
Typically, AIG does not provide any guarantees to the investors
in the VIE.

________________________________________________________________________________

The following table summarizes, by
investment activity, AIG s involvement with VIEs. Maximum
exposure to loss, as detailed in the table below, is considered
to be the notional amount of credit lines, guarantees and other
credit support, and liquidity facilities, notional amounts of
credit default swaps and certain total return swaps, and the
amount invested in the debt or equity issued by the
VIEs.  

*   
     
     Includes $2.4 billion of assets held in an
    unconsolidated SIV sponsored by AIGFP in 2007. As of
    December 31, 2007, AIGFP s invested assets included
    $1.7 billion of securities purchased under agreements to
    resell, commercial paper and medium-term and capital notes
    issued by this entity.  

Following is additional information concerning AIG s
involvement with collateralized debt obligations and its
structured investment vehicle.

Collateralized Debt Obligations  

In the normal course of its asset management operations, AIG
manages or sponsors CDOs which issue debt and equity interests
sold to third party investors. AIG s subsidiaries also
invest in the debt and equity securities issued by these CDOs as
part of their normal investment activities. AIG also invests in
and manages CDOs sponsored by third parties, warehouses assets
prior to the establishment of and sale of the warehoused assets
to a CDO, enters into derivative contracts with CDOs, including
credit default swaps, and acts as an asset manager to CDOs.

Categories of assets owned by these CDOs include residential and
commercial mortgage and other asset-backed securities, corporate
loans, high-yield and high-grade loans and bonds, and credit
default contracts, among other assets, that have ratings ranging
from AAA to unrated. AIGFP s portfolio of multi-sector CDOs
and, to a lesser extent, certain AIG insurance
subsidiaries  direct investments in CDOs, have experienced
some downgrades within their asset portfolios. AIG does not
expect that it will have to consolidate any of these structures.

These CDOs typically are funded with commercial paper, medium
and long-term financing and equity with ratings that range from
AAA to unrated. AIG has no obligation to purchase, and has not
purchased, any commercial paper issued by these CDOs or provided
any support to these CDOs in obtaining financing, and does not
intend to do so. However, AIGFP has written the 2a-7 Puts which
are included as part of its multi-sector credit default swap
portfolio. Under the terms of these securities the holders are
permitted or required, in certain circumstances, on a regular
basis to tender their securities to the issuers at par. If an
issuer s remarketing agent is unable to resell

96         AIG
2007 Form  10-K 

Table of Contents   

American International Group, Inc. and Subsidiaries

the securities so tendered within the maximum interest rate
spread range specified in the terms of the securities, AIGFP
must purchase the securities at par as long as the securities
have not experienced a default. During 2007, AIGFP purchased
securities with a principal amount of approximately
$754 million in connection with these obligations. In
respect of certain of the
 2a-7  Puts, AIGFP
has contracted with third parties to provide liquidity for the
securities if they are put to AIGFP for up to a three-year
period. Such liquidity facilities totaled approximately
$3 billion at December 31, 2007. As of
February 26, 2008, AIGFP has not utilized these liquidity
facilities. At December 31, 2007, AIGFP had approximately
$6.5 billion of notional exposure on these 2a-7 Puts.

Structured Investment Vehicle  

AIGFP sponsors one unconsolidated SIV that invests in variable
rate, investment-grade debt securities with a weighted average
remaining life of four years at December 31, 2007.
Assets of the SIV totaled $2.4 billion at December 31,
2007. Approximately $31.9 million of these assets have been
downgraded one notch from Aa3/AA- to A1/A+ by Moody s and
S&P, respectively, since the purchase of these assets by the
SIV. The SIV funds its assets by issuing secured financing,
commercial paper, and medium-term notes that had a
weighted-average remaining life of less than six months at
December 31, 2007. The mismatch between the weighted
average remaining life of the SIV s assets and liabilities
has been removed through the funding support from AIGFP
described in the next paragraph. The SIV also issued
approximately $300 million of capital notes originally
rated Baa2 and BBB by Moody s and S&P, respectively,
and subsequently downgraded in 2007 to B3 and BB- (credit watch
negative), respectively, of which AIGFP owns 12 percent.

At December 31, 2007, AIGFP had $1.7 billion of
balance sheet exposure to this SIV representing investments in
securities purchased under agreements to resell, commercial
paper, and medium-term and capital notes. During the credit
market disruptions during the last half of 2007, the SIV
experienced difficulty attracting purchasers for its commercial
paper and medium-term notes. In January 2008, AIGFP agreed to
provide funding support to the SIV, as necessary, to allow the
SIV to redeem its commercial paper and medium-term notes as they
become due. Moody s affirmed the SIV s senior debt
ratings of Aaa. S&P affirmed the SIV s long term issuer
credit rating of AAA with a negative outlook and downgraded its
capital notes from BB-to CCC- and this rating remains on credit
watch negative. AIG does not believe its management of, and
current or future investments in, the SIV could have any effect
on AIG s debt ratings under any circumstances.

Shareholders  Equity

The changes in AIG s consolidated
shareholders  equity during 2007 and 2006
follows:  

*  
     
     Reflects the effects of employee stock transactions and
    cumulative effect of accounting changes.  

As indicated in the table above, a significant portion of the
2007 decrease in AIG s consolidated equity during 2007 was
the result of share purchases, substantially all of which were
funded from the issuance of hybrid debt securities. The effect
of these transactions was to replace high cost equity securities
(common stock) with cost efficient hybrid securities, a
substantial portion of which is treated as equity capital for
the purpose of rating agency leverage calculations.

AIG has in the past reinvested most of its unrestricted earnings
in its operations and believes such continued reinvestment in
the future will be adequate to meet any foreseeable capital
needs. However, AIG may choose from time to time to raise
additional funds through the issuance of additional securities.

In February 2007, AIG s Board of Directors adopted a new
dividend policy, which took effect with the dividend declared in
the second quarter of 2007, providing that under ordinary
circumstances, AIG s plan will be to increase its common
stock dividend by approximately 20 percent annually. The
payment of any dividend, however, is at the discretion of
AIG s Board of Directors, and the future payment of
dividends will depend on various factors, including the
performance of AIG s businesses, AIG s consolidated
financial position, results of operations and liquidity and the
existence of investment opportunities.

Share Repurchases 

From time to time, AIG may buy shares of its common stock for
general corporate purposes, including to satisfy its obligations
under various employee benefit plans. In February 2007,
AIG s Board of Directors increased AIG s share
repurchase program by authorizing the purchase of shares with an
aggregate purchase price of $8 billion. In November 2007,
AIG s Board of Directors authorized the purchase of an
additional $8 billion in common stock. From March through
December 31, 2007, AIG entered into structured share
repurchase arrangements providing for the purchase of shares
over time with an aggregate purchase price of

AIG 2007
Form  10-K          
97 

Table of Contents   

American International Group, Inc. and Subsidiaries

Management s Discussion and Analysis of 

Financial Condition and Results of
Operations    Continued  

$7 billion, including a $1.0 billion commitment
entered into in December 2007 but not funded until January 2008.

A total of 76,361,209 shares were purchased during 2007.
The portion of the payments advanced by AIG under the structured
share repurchase arrangements that had not yet been utilized to
repurchase shares at December 31, 2007, amounting to
$912 million, has been recorded as a component of
shareholders  equity under the caption, Payments advanced
to purchase shares. Purchases have continued subsequent to
December 31, 2007, with an additional 12,196,187 shares
purchased from January 1 through February 15, 2008. All
shares purchased are recorded as treasury stock at cost.

At February 15, 2008, $10.25 billion was available for
purchases under the aggregate authorization. AIG does not expect
to purchase additional shares under its share repurchase program
for the foreseeable future, other than to meet commitments that
existed at December 31, 2007.

Dividends from Insurance Subsidiaries 

Payments of dividends to AIG by its insurance subsidiaries are
subject to certain restrictions imposed by regulatory
authorities. With respect to AIG s domestic insurance
subsidiaries, the payment of any dividend requires formal notice
to the insurance department in which the particular insurance
subsidiary is domiciled. Under the laws of many states, an
insurer may pay a dividend without prior approval of the
insurance regulator when the amount of the dividend is below
certain regulatory thresholds. Other foreign jurisdictions,
notably Bermuda, Japan, Hong Kong, Taiwan, the U.K., Thailand
and Singapore, may restrict the ability of AIG s foreign
insurance subsidiaries to pay dividends. Largely as a result of
these restrictions, approximately 81 percent of the
aggregate equity of AIG s consolidated subsidiaries was
restricted from immediate transfer to AIG parent at
December 31, 2007. See Regulation and Supervision herein.
AIG cannot predict how recent regulatory investigations may
affect the ability of its regulated subsidiaries to pay
dividends. To AIG s knowledge, no AIG company is currently
on any regulatory or similar  watch list  with regard
to solvency. See also Liquidity herein, Note 12 to
Consolidated Financial Statements and Item 1A. Risk
Factors   Liquidity.

Regulation and Supervision

AIG s insurance subsidiaries, in common with other
insurers, are subject to regulation and supervision by the
states and jurisdictions in which they do business. In the
United States, the NAIC has developed Risk-Based Capital
(RBC) requirements. RBC relates an individual insurance
company s statutory surplus to the risk inherent in its
overall operations.

AIG s insurance subsidiaries file financial statements
prepared in accordance with statutory accounting practices
prescribed or permitted by domestic and foreign insurance
regulatory authorities. The principal differences between
statutory financial statements and financial statements prepared
in accordance with U.S. GAAP for domestic companies are
that statutory financial statements do not reflect DAC, some
bond portfolios may be carried at amortized cost, assets and
liabilities are presented net of reinsurance, policyholder
liabilities are valued using more conservative assumptions and
certain assets are non-admitted.

In connection with the filing of the 2005 statutory financial
statements for AIG s Domestic General Insurance companies,
AIG agreed with the relevant state insurance regulators on the
statutory accounting treatment of various items. The regulatory
authorities have also permitted certain of the domestic and
foreign insurance subsidiaries to support the carrying value of
their investments in certain non-insurance and foreign insurance
subsidiaries by utilizing the AIG audited consolidated financial
statements to satisfy the requirement that the
U.S. GAAP-basis equity of such entities be audited. In
addition, the regulatory authorities have permitted the Domestic
General Insurance companies to utilize audited financial
statements prepared on a basis of accounting other than
U.S. GAAP to value investments in joint ventures, limited
partnerships and hedge funds. AIG has received similar permitted
practices authorizations from insurance regulatory authorities
in connection with the 2007 and 2006 statutory financial
statements. These permitted practices did not affect the
Domestic General Insurance companies  compliance with
minimum regulatory capital requirements.

Statutory capital of each company continued to exceed minimum
company action level requirements following the adjustments, but
AIG nonetheless contributed an additional $750 million of
capital into American Home effective September 30, 2005 and
contributed a further $2.25 billion of capital in February
2006 for a total of approximately $3 billion of capital
into Domestic General Insurance subsidiaries effective
December 31, 2005. To enhance their current capital
positions, AIG suspended dividends from the DBG companies from
the fourth quarter 2005 through 2006, dividend payments resumed
in the first quarter of 2007. AIG believes it has the capital
resources and liquidity to fund any necessary statutory capital
contributions.

As discussed under Item 3. Legal Proceedings, various regulators
have commenced investigations into certain insurance business
practices. In addition, the OTS and other regulators routinely
conduct examinations of AIG and its subsidiaries, including
AIG s consumer finance operations. AIG cannot predict the
ultimate effect that these investigations and examinations, or
any additional regulation arising therefrom, might have on its
business. Federal, state or local legislation may affect
AIG s ability to operate and expand its various financial
services businesses, and changes in the current laws,
regulations or interpretations thereof may have a material
adverse effect on these businesses.

AIG s U.S. operations are negatively affected under
guarantee fund assessment laws which exist in most states. As a
result of operating in a state which has guarantee fund
assessment laws, a solvent insurance company may be assessed for
certain obligations arising from the insolvencies of other
insurance companies which operated in that state. AIG generally
records these assessments upon notice. Additionally, certain
states permit at least a portion of the assessed amount to be
used as a credit against a company s future premium tax
liabilities. Therefore, the ultimate net assessment cannot
reasonably be estimated. The guarantee fund assessments net of
credits recognized

98         AIG
2007 Form  10-K 

Table of Contents   

American International Group, Inc. and Subsidiaries

in 2007, 2006 and 2005, respectively, were $87 million,
$97 million and $124 million.

AIG is also required to participate in various involuntary pools
(principally workers compensation business) which provide
insurance coverage for those not able to obtain such coverage in
the voluntary markets. This participation is also recorded upon
notification, as these amounts cannot reasonably be estimated.

A substantial portion of AIG s General Insurance business
and a majority of its Life Insurance & Retirement
Services business are conducted in foreign countries. The degree
of regulation and supervision in foreign jurisdictions varies.
Generally, AIG, as well as the underwriting companies operating
in such jurisdictions, must satisfy local regulatory
requirements. Licenses issued by foreign authorities to AIG
subsidiaries are subject to modification and revocation. Thus,
AIG s insurance subsidiaries could be prevented from
conducting future business in certain of the jurisdictions where
they currently operate. AIG s international operations
include operations in various developing nations. Both current
and future foreign operations could be adversely affected by
unfavorable political developments up to and including
nationalization of AIG s operations without compensation.
Adverse effects resulting from any one country may affect
AIG s results of operations, liquidity and financial
condition depending on the magnitude of the event and AIG s
net financial exposure at that time in that country.

Foreign insurance operations are individually subject to local
solvency margin requirements that require maintenance of
adequate capitalization, which AIG complies with by country. In
addition, certain foreign locations, notably Japan, have
established regulations that can result in guarantee fund
assessments. These have not had a material effect on AIG s
financial condition or results of operations.

Liquidity

AIG manages liquidity at both the subsidiary and parent company
levels. At December 31, 2007, AIG s consolidated
invested assets included $65.6 billion in cash and
short-term investments. Consolidated net cash provided from
operating activities in 2007 amounted to $35.2 billion. At
both the subsidiary and parent company level, liquidity
management activities are intended to preserve and enhance
funding stability, flexibility, and diversity through a wide
range of potential operating environments and market conditions.

As a result of market disruption in the credit markets, AIG took
steps to enhance the liquidity of its portfolios. Cash and
short-term investments increased in all of AIG s major
operating segments. In addition, AIG created an
interdisciplinary Liquidity Risk Committee to measure, monitor,
control and aggregate liquidity risks across AIG. While this
Committee s responsibilities are broad, the
Committee s initial focus is on portfolios with
shorter-term contractual liabilities, such as securities lending
in the United States and retail deposit-like products in the
United Kingdom.

Management believes that AIG s liquid assets, cash provided
by operations and access to the capital markets will enable it
to meet its anticipated cash requirements, including the funding
of increased dividends under AIG s current dividend policy.
See also Item 1A. Risk Factors   Liquidity and
Risk Management herein.

Insurance Operations 

Insurance operating cash flow is derived from two sources,
underwriting operations and investment operations. Cash flow
from underwriting operations includes collections of periodic
premiums and policyholders  contract deposits, and paid
loss recoveries, less reinsurance premiums, losses, benefits,
and acquisition and operating expenses. Generally, there is a
time lag from when premiums are collected and losses and
benefits are paid. Investment cash flow is primarily derived
from interest and dividends received and includes realized
capital gains net of realized capital losses.

Liquid assets include cash and short-term investments, fixed
maturities that are not designated as held to maturity, and
publicly traded equity securities. At December 31, 2007 and
2006, AIG s insurance operations had liquid assets of
$476.1 billion and $428.4 billion, respectively. The
portion of liquid assets comprised of cash and short-term
investments was $45.5 billion and $19.9 billion at
December 31, 2007 and 2006, respectively. At
December 31, 2007, $380.9 billion, or 95 percent
of the fixed maturity investments that were not designated as
held to maturity in AIG s insurance company general account
portfolios were rated investment grade. Given the size and
liquidity profile of AIG s investment portfolios, AIG
believes that deviations from its projected claim experience do
not constitute a significant liquidity risk. AIG s
asset/liability management process takes into account the
expected maturity of investments and expected benefit payments
and policy surrenders as well as the specific nature and risk
profile of these liabilities. Historically, there has been no
significant variation between the expected maturities of
AIG s investments and the payment of claims.

See also Operating Review   General Insurance
Operations   General Insurance Net Investment Income
and Life Insurance & Retirement Services
Operations   Life Insurance & Retirement
Services Net Investment Income and Realized Capital Gains
(Losses) herein.

General Insurance  

General Insurance operating cash flow is derived from
underwriting and investment activities. With respect to General
Insurance operations, if paid losses accelerated beyond
AIG s ability to fund such paid losses from current
operating cash flows, AIG might need to liquidate a portion of
its General Insurance investment portfolio and/or arrange for
financing. A liquidity strain could result from the occurrence
of several significant catastrophic events in a relatively short
period of time. Additional strain on liquidity could occur if
the investments liquidated to fund such paid losses were sold
into a depressed market place and/or reinsurance recoverable on
such paid losses became uncollectible or collateral supporting
such reinsurance recoverable significantly decreased in value.

AIG 2007
Form  10-K          
99 

Table of Contents   

American International Group, Inc. and Subsidiaries

Management s Discussion and Analysis of 

Financial Condition and Results of
Operations    Continued  

Life Insurance & Retirement
Services  

Life Insurance & Retirement Services operating cash
flow is derived from underwriting and investment activities. If
a substantial portion of the Life Insurance &
Retirement Services operations bond portfolio diminished
significantly in value and/or defaulted, AIG might need to
liquidate other portions of its Life Insurance &
Retirement Services investment portfolio and/or arrange
financing. Possible events causing such a liquidity strain could
include economic collapse of a nation or region in which Life
Insurance & Retirement Services operations exist,
nationalization, catastrophic terrorist acts, or other economic
or political upheaval. In addition, a significant rise in
interest rates in a particular region or regions leading to a
major increase in policyholder surrenders could also create a
liquidity strain.

Financial Services 

AIG s major Financial Services operating subsidiaries
consist of AIGFP, ILFC, AGF and AIGCFG. Sources of funds
considered in meeting the liquidity needs of AIGFP s
operations include GIAs, issuance of long- and short-term debt,
proceeds from maturities, sales of securities available for sale
and securities and spot commodities leased or sold under
repurchase agreements. ILFC, AGF and AIGCFG utilize the
commercial paper markets, bank loans and bank credit facilities
as sources of liquidity. ILFC and AGF also fund in the domestic
and international capital markets without reliance on any
guarantee from AIG. An additional source of liquidity for ILFC
is the use of export credit facilities. AIGCFG also uses
wholesale and retail bank deposits as sources of funds. On
occasion, AIG has provided equity capital to ILFC, AGF and
AIGCFG and provides intercompany loans to AIGCFG.

Financial Services liquidity could be impaired by an inability
to access the capital markets or by collateral calls. The credit
default swaps written by AIGFP on super senior tranches of
multi-sector CDOs require, in most cases, physical settlement
following an event constituting a failure to pay in respect of
the underlying super senior CDO securities. The majority of the
other credit default swaps are cash settled, whereby AIGFP would
be required upon an event constituting a failure to pay in
respect of the underlying super senior CDO securities to make
cash payments to the counterparty equal to any actual losses
that attach to the super senior risk layer, rather than to
purchase the reference obligation. Additionally, certain of the
credit default swaps are subject to collateral call provisions.
In the case of such swaps written on CDOs, the amount of the
collateral to be posted is determined based on the value of the
CDO securities referenced in the documentation for the credit
default swaps.

Asset Management 

Asset Management s sources of funds include cash flows from
investment management fees, carried interest and returns on
various investments. These investments are financed through the
issuance of AIG debt in the MIP, the issuance of GICs and
funding from AIG. From time to time, AIG Investments utilizes
temporary debt funding from AIG primarily to acquire warehoused
investments. Subsequent to the initial investment, there are
generally no liquidity demands with respect to these warehoused
investments. To the extent adverse market conditions prevent AIG
Investments from transferring or otherwise divesting these
warehoused investments, repayment of the temporary equity
funding provided by AIG would be delayed until the investment is
transferred or otherwise divested.

AIG Investments incurs expenses associated with cash outflows
from the operation of its business, including costs related to
portfolio management and related back and middle office costs.
In addition, cash is used in association with investment
warehousing activities wherein AIG Investments funds and
temporarily holds an investment until transferred, sold or
otherwise divested.

Cash needs for the Spread-Based Investment business are
principally the result of GIC maturities. Significant blocks of
the GIC portfolio will mature over the next five years. AIG
utilizes asset liability matching to control liquidity risks
associated with this business. In addition, AIG believes that
its products incorporate certain restrictions which encourage
persistency, limiting the magnitude of unforeseen early
surrenders in the GIC portfolio.

Liquidity for Asset Management operations can be affected by
significant credit or geopolitical events that might cause a
delay in fund closings, securitizations or an inability of
AIG s clients to fund their capital commitments.

AIG (Parent Company) 

The liquidity of the parent company is principally derived from
its subsidiaries. The primary sources of cash flow are dividends
and other payments from its regulated and unregulated
subsidiaries, as well as issuance of debt securities. Primary
uses of cash flow are for debt service, subsidiary funding,
shareholder dividend payments and common stock repurchases. In
2007, AIG parent collected $4.9 billion in dividends and
other payments from subsidiaries (primarily from insurance
company subsidiaries), issued $11.7 billion of debt and
retired $865 million of debt, excluding MIP and
Series AIGFP debt. AIG parent also advanced $6 billion
for structured share repurchase arrangements. Excluding MIP and
Series AIGFP debt, AIG parent made interest payments
totaling $550 million, made $5.90 billion in capital
contributions to subsidiaries, and paid $1.93 billion in
dividends to shareholders in 2007. In February 2008, AIG
contributed approximately $445 million in the form of
forgiveness of Federal income tax recoverables to certain
domestic general insurance subsidiaries and $500 million to
certain domestic life insurance subsidiaries, both effective
December 31, 2007.

AIG parent funds its short-term working capital needs through
commercial paper issued by AIG Funding. As of December 31,
2007, AIG Funding had $4.2 billion of commercial paper
outstanding with an average maturity of 29 days. As
additional liquidity, AIG parent and AIG Funding maintain
committed revolving credit facilities that, as of
December 31, 2007, had an aggregate of $9.3 billion
available to be drawn, and which are summarized above under
Revolving Credit Facilities.

At the parent company level, liquidity management activities are
conducted in a manner intended to preserve and enhance funding
stability, flexibility, and diversity through the full range of

100         AIG
2007 Form  10-K 

Table of Contents   

American International Group, Inc. and Subsidiaries

potential operating environments and market conditions.
Assessing liquidity risk involves forecasting of cash inflows
and outflows on both a short- and long-term basis. Corporate
Treasury is responsible for formulating the parent
company s liquidity and contingency planning efforts, as
well as for execution of AIG s specific funding activities.
Through active liquidity management, AIG seeks to retain stable,
reliable and cost-effective funding sources. In addition to
current liquidity requirements, factors which affect funding
decisions include market conditions, prevailing interest rates
and the desired maturity profile of liabilities. The objectives
of contingency planning are to ensure maintenance of appropriate
liquidity during normal and stressed periods, to measure and
project funding requirements during periods of stress, and to
manage access to funding sources. Diversification of funding
sources is an important element of AIG s liquidity risk
management approach.

AIG s liquidity could be impaired by an inability to access
the capital markets or by unforeseen significant outflows of
cash. This situation may arise due to circumstances that AIG may
be unable to control, such as a general market disruption or an
operational problem that affects third parties or AIG.
Regulatory and other legal restrictions may limit AIG s
ability to transfer funds freely, either to or from its
subsidiaries. In particular, many of AIG s subsidiaries,
including its insurance subsidiaries, are subject to laws and
regulations that authorize regulatory bodies to block or reduce
the flow of funds to the parent holding company, or that
prohibit such transfers altogether in certain circumstances.
These laws and regulations may hinder AIG s ability to
access funds that it may need to make payments on its
obligations. Because of the wide geographic profile of
AIG s regulated subsidiaries, management believes that
these cash flows represent a diversified source of liquidity for
AIG. For a further discussion of the regulatory environment in
which AIG subsidiaries operate and other issues affecting
AIG s liquidity, see Item 1A. Risk Factors.

Invested Assets  

The following tables summarize the
composition of AIG s invested assets by segment:  

* At December 31, 2007, approximately 65 percent
and 35 percent of invested assets were held in domestic and
foreign investments, respectively. 

AIG 2007
Form  10-K          
101 

Table of Contents   

American International Group, Inc. and Subsidiaries

Management s Discussion and Analysis of 

Financial Condition and Results of
Operations    Continued  

(a)  
     
     Certain reclassifications and format changes have been made
    to prior period amounts to conform to the current period
    presentation.  

(b)  
     
     At December 31, 2006, approximately 68 percent and
    32 percent of invested assets were held in domestic and
    foreign investments, respectively.  

Investment Strategy

AIG s investment strategies are tailored to the specific
business needs of each operating unit. The investment objectives
are driven by the business model for each of the businesses:
General Insurance, Life Insurance, Retirement Services and Asset
Management s Spread-Based Investment business. The primary
objectives are in terms of preservation of capital, growth of
surplus and generation of investment income to support the
insurance products. At the local operating unit level, the
strategies are based on considerations that include the local
market, liability duration and cash flow characteristics, rating
agency and regulatory capital considerations, legal investment
limitations, tax optimization and diversification. In addition
to local risk management considerations, AIG s corporate
risk management guidelines impose limitations on concentrations
to promote diversification by industry, asset class and
geographic sector.

102         AIG
2007 Form  10-K 

Table of Contents   

American International Group, Inc. and Subsidiaries

The amortized cost or cost and
estimated fair value of AIG s available for sale and held
to maturity securities at December 31, 2007 and 2006 were
as follows:  

AIG s held to maturity and available for sale fixed
maturity investments totaled $523.5 billion at December 31,
2007, compared to $525.5 billion at December 31, 2006.
At December 31, 2007, approximately 63 percent of the fixed
maturities investments were in domestic portfolios.
Approximately 53 percent of such domestic securities were
rated AAA by one or more of the principal rating agencies.
Approximately five percent were below investment grade or not
rated. AIG s investment decision process relies primarily
on internally generated fundamental analysis and internal risk
ratings. Third party rating services  ratings and opinions
provide one source of independent perspectives for consideration
in the internal analysis.

A significant portion of the foreign fixed income portfolio is
rated by Moody s, S&P or similar foreign rating
services. Rating services are not available in all overseas
locations. The Credit Risk Committee (CRC) closely reviews the
credit quality of the foreign portfolio s non-rated fixed
income investments. At December 31, 2007, approximately
19 percent of the foreign fixed income investments were
either rated AAA or, on the basis of AIG s internal
analysis, were equivalent from a credit standpoint to securities
so rated. Approximately five percent were below investment grade
or not rated at that date. A large portion (approximately one
third) of the foreign fixed income portfolio is sovereign fixed
maturity securities supporting the policy liabilities in the
country of issuance.

The credit ratings of AIG s fixed maturity investments,
other than those of AIGFP, at December 31, 2007 and 2006
were as follows: 

AIG 2007
Form  10-K          
103 

Table of Contents   

American International Group, Inc. and Subsidiaries

Management s Discussion and Analysis of 

Financial Condition and Results of
Operations    Continued  

The industry categories of AIG s available for sale
corporate debt securities at December 31, 2007 were as
follows: 

The amortized cost, gross unrealized
gains (losses) and fair value of AIG s investments in
mortgage-backed, asset-backed and collateralized securities at
December 31, 2007 were as follows:  

Investments in Residential Mortgage-Backed Securities 

As part of its strategy to diversify its investments, AIG
invests in various types of securities, including residential
mortgage-backed securities (RMBS).

The amortized cost, gross unrealized
gains (losses) and estimated fair value of AIG s
investments in RMBS securities, other than those of AIGFP, at
December 31, 2007 were as follows:  

(a) Includes foreign and jumbo RMBS-related
securities. 

(b) Primarily wrapped second-lien. 

AIG s operations, other than AIGFP, held investments in
RMBS with an estimated fair value of $84.8 billion at
December 31, 2007, or approximately 10 percent of
AIG s total invested assets. In addition, AIG s
insurance operations held investments with a fair value totaling
$4.0 billion in CDOs, of which $58 million included
some level of subprime exposure. AIG s RMBS investments are
predominantly in highly-rated tranches that contain substantial
protection features through collateral subordination. At
December 31, 2007, approximately 92 percent of these
investments were rated AAA, and approximately 6 percent were
rated AA by one or more of the principal rating agencies.
AIG s investments rated BBB or below totaled
$621 million, or less than 0.1 percent of AIG s
total invested assets at December 31, 2007. As of
February 25, 2008, $3.6 billion of AIG s RMBS
backed primarily by subprime collateral had been downgraded as a
result of rating agency actions since January 1, 2008, and
$6 million of such investments had been upgraded.
Subsequent to December 31, 2007, rating agencies have
placed on watch for downgrade a majority of 2006 and 2007
vintage AAA-rated subprime RMBS in the market. For AIG,
$9.7 billion was on watch for downgrade.

104         AIG
2007 Form  10-K 

Table of Contents   

American International Group, Inc. and Subsidiaries

The fair value of AIG s RMBS
investments, other than those of AIGFP, at December 31,
2007 by year of vintage and credit rating were as
follows:  

The fair value of AIG s
 Alt-A  investments
included in the RMBS investments above, other than those of
AIGFP, at December 31, 2007 by year of vintage and credit
rating were as follows:  

The fair value of AIG s subprime
RMBS investments, other than those of AIGFP, at
December 31, 2007 by year of vintage and credit rating were
as follows:  

AIG s underwriting practices for investing in RMBS, other
asset-backed securities and CDOs take into consideration the
quality of the originator, the manager, the servicer, security
credit ratings, underlying characteristics of the mortgages,
borrower characteristics, and the level of credit enhancement in
the transaction. AIG s strategy is typically to invest in
securities rated AA or better and create diversification across
multiple underlying asset classes.

General Insurance Invested Assets

In AIG s General Insurance business, the duration of
liabilities for long-tail casualty lines is greater than other
lines. As differentiated from the Life Insurance &
Retirement Services companies, the focus is not on
asset-liability matching, but on preservation of capital and
growth of surplus.

Fixed income holdings of the Domestic General Insurance
companies are comprised primarily of tax-exempt securities,
which provide attractive risk-adjusted after-tax returns. These
high quality municipal investments have an average rating of AA.

Fixed income assets held in Foreign General Insurance are of
high quality and short to intermediate duration, averaging
3.6 years compared to 7.0 years for those in Domestic
General Insurance.

While invested assets backing reserves are invested in
conventional fixed income securities in Domestic General
Insurance, a modest portion of surplus is allocated to large
capitalization, high-dividend, public equity strategies and to
alternative investments, including private equity and hedge
funds. These investments have provided a combination of added
diversification and attractive long-term returns.

General Insurance invested assets grew by $13.7 billion, or 12
percent, during 2007 as bond holdings grew by $6 billion. Listed
equity holdings grew by $1.3 billion.

AIG 2007
Form  10-K          
105 

Table of Contents   

American International Group, Inc. and Subsidiaries

Management s Discussion and Analysis of 

Financial Condition and Results of
Operations    Continued  

Life Insurance & Retirement
Services Invested Assets

With respect to Life Insurance & Retirement Services,
AIG uses asset-liability management as a tool worldwide in the
life insurance business to influence the composition of the
invested assets and appropriate marketing strategies. AIG s
objective is to maintain a matched asset-liability structure.
However, in certain markets, the absence of long-dated fixed
income investment instruments may preclude a matched
asset-liability position. In addition, AIG may occasionally
determine that it is economically advantageous to be temporarily
in an unmatched position. To the extent that AIG has maintained
a matched asset-liability structure, the economic effect of
interest rate fluctuations is partially mitigated.

AIG s investment strategy for the Life Insurance &
Retirement Services segment is to produce cash flows greater
than maturing insurance liabilities. AIG actively manages the
asset-liability relationship in its foreign operations, even
though certain territories lack qualified long-term investments
or certain local regulatory authorities may impose investment
restrictions. For example, in several Southeast Asian countries,
the duration of investments is shorter than the effective
maturity of the related policy liabilities. Therefore, there is
risk that the reinvestment of the proceeds at the maturity of
the initial investments may be at a yield below that of the
interest required for the accretion of the policy liabilities.
Additionally, there exists a future investment risk associated
with certain policies currently in-force which will have premium
receipts in the future. That is, the investment of these future
premium receipts may be at a yield below that required to meet
future policy liabilities.

AIG actively manages the interest rate assumptions and crediting
rates used for its new and in force business. Business
strategies continue to evolve to maintain profitability of the
overall business. In some countries, new products are being
introduced with minimal investment guarantees, resulting in a
shift toward investment-linked savings products and away from
traditional savings products with higher guarantees.

The investment of insurance cash flows and reinvestment of the
proceeds of matured securities and coupons requires active
management of investment yields while maintaining satisfactory
investment quality and liquidity.

AIG may use alternative investments, including equities, real
estate and foreign currency denominated fixed income instruments
in certain foreign jurisdictions where interest rates remain low
and there are limited long-dated bond markets to extend the
duration or increase the yield of the investment portfolio to
more closely match the requirements of the policyholder
liabilities and DAC recoverability. This strategy has been
effectively used in Japan and more recently by Nan Shan in
Taiwan. In Japan, foreign assets, excluding those matched to
foreign liabilities, were approximately 31 percent of
statutory assets, which is below the maximum allowable
percentage under current local regulation. Foreign assets
comprised approximately 33 percent of Nan Shan s
invested assets at December 31, 2007, slightly below the
maximum allowable percentage under current local regulation. The
majority of Nan Shan s in-force policy portfolio is
traditional life and endowment insurance products with implicit
interest rate guarantees. New business with lower interest rate
guarantees are gradually reducing the overall interest
requirements, but asset portfolio yields have declined faster
due to the prolonged low interest rate environment. As a result,
although the investment margins for a large block of in-force
policies are negative, the block remains profitable overall
because the mortality and expense margins presently exceed the
negative investment spread. In response to the low interest rate
environment and the volatile exchange rate of the Taiwanese
dollar, Nan Shan is emphasizing new products with lower implied
guarantees, including participating endowments and
 investment-linked 
products. Although the risks of a continued low interest rate
environment coupled with a volatile Taiwanese dollar could
increase net liabilities and require additional capital to
maintain adequate local solvency margins, Nan Shan currently
believes it has adequate resources to meet all future policy
obligations.

AIG actively manages the asset-liability relationship in its
domestic operations. This relationship is more easily managed
through the availability of qualified long-term investments.

A number of guaranteed benefits, such as living benefits or
guaranteed minimum death benefits, are offered on certain
variable life and variable annuity products. AIG manages its
exposure resulting from these long-term guarantees through
reinsurance or capital market hedging instruments.

AIG invests in equities for various reasons, including
diversifying its overall exposure to interest rate risk.
Available for sale bonds and equity securities are subject to
declines in fair value. Such declines in fair value are
presented in unrealized appreciation or depreciation of
investments, net of taxes, as a component of Accumulated other
comprehensive income. Declines that are determined to be
other-than-temporary are reflected in income in the period in
which the intent to hold the securities to recovery no longer
exists. See Valuation of Invested Assets herein. Generally,
insurance regulations restrict the types of assets in which an
insurance company may invest. When permitted by regulatory
authorities and when deemed necessary to protect insurance
assets, including invested assets, from adverse movements in
foreign currency exchange rates, interest rates and equity
prices, AIG and its insurance subsidiaries may enter into
derivative transactions as end users to hedge their exposures.
For a further discussion of AIG s use of derivatives, see
Risk Management   Credit Risk Management  
Derivatives herein.

In certain jurisdictions, significant regulatory and/or foreign
governmental barriers exist which may not permit the immediate
free flow of funds between insurance subsidiaries or from the
insurance subsidiaries to AIG parent. For a discussion of these
restrictions, see Item 1. Business   Regulation.

Life Insurance & Retirement Services invested assets
grew by $41.7 billion, or 10 percent, during 2007 as
bond holdings grew by $5.3 billion, and listed equity
holdings grew by $9.3 billion, or 39 percent.

106         AIG
2007 Form  10-K 

Table of Contents   

American International Group, Inc. and Subsidiaries

Financial Services Invested Assets

Financial Services Securities  

Financial Services securities available for sale of $40.3
billion at December 31, 2007 is predominantly a diversified
portfolio of high-grade fixed income securities where the
individual securities have varying degrees of credit risk. At
December 31, 2007, the average credit rating of this
portfolio was in the AA+ category or the equivalent thereto as
determined through rating agencies or internal review. AIGFP has
also entered into credit derivative transactions to economically
hedge its credit risk associated with $82 million of these
securities. Securities deemed below investment grade at
December 31, 2007 totalled $797 million in fair value,
representing two percent of Financial Services securities
available for sale. There have been no significant downgrades of
these securities through February 15, 2008.

AIGFP s management objective is to minimize interest rate,
currency, commodity and equity risks associated with its
securities available for sale. When AIGFP purchases a security
for its securities available for sale investment portfolio, it
simultaneously enters into an offsetting hedge such that the
payment terms of the hedging transaction offset the payment
terms of the investment security. This achieves the economic
result of converting the return on the underlying security to
U.S. dollar LIBOR plus or minus a spread based on the
underlying profit on each security on the initial trade date.
The market risk associated with such hedges is managed on a
portfolio basis.

Because hedge accounting treatment was not applied in 2006, the
unrealized gains and losses on the derivative transactions with
unaffiliated third parties were reflected in operating income.
The unrealized gains and losses on the underlying securities
available for sale resulting from changes in interest rates and
currency rates and commodity and equity prices were included in
accumulated other comprehensive income (loss), or in operating
income, as appropriate. When a security is sold, the realized
gain or loss with respect to this security is included in
operating income.

Securities purchased under agreements to resell are treated as
collateralized financing transactions. AIGFP takes possession of
or obtains a security interest in securities purchased under
agreements to resell.

Capital Markets 

AIGFP uses the proceeds from the issuance of notes and bonds and
GIAs to invest in a diversified portfolio of securities,
including securities available for sale, and derivative
transactions. The funds may also be invested in securities
purchased under agreements to resell. The proceeds from the
disposal of the aforementioned securities available for sale and
securities purchased under agreements to resell are used to fund
the maturing GIAs or other AIGFP financings, or to invest in new
assets. For a further discussion of AIGFP s borrowings, see
Capital Resources and Liquidity   Borrowings herein.

Capital Markets derivative transactions are carried at fair
value. AIGFP reduces its economic risk exposure through
similarly valued offsetting transactions including swaps,
trading securities, options, forwards and futures. AIGFP s
super senior credit default swaps include structural protection
to help minimize risk. For a further discussion on the use of
derivatives by Capital Markets, see Operating Review  
Financial Services Operations   Capital Markets and
Risk Management   Derivatives herein and Note 8
to Consolidated Financial Statements.

AIGFP owns inventories in certain commodities in which it
trades, and may reduce the exposure to market risk through the
use of swaps, forwards, futures, and option contracts. Physical
commodities held in AIGFP s wholly owned broker-dealer
subsidiary are recorded at fair value. All other commodities are
recorded at the lower of cost or fair value.

Trading securities, at fair value, and securities and spot
commodities sold but not yet purchased, at fair value, are
marked to fair value daily with the unrealized gain or loss
recognized in income. These trading securities are purchased and
sold as necessary to meet the risk management and business
objectives of Capital Markets operations.

The gross unrealized gains and gross
unrealized losses of Capital Markets operations included in
Financial Services assets and liabilities at December 31,
2007 were as follows:  

*   
     
     These amounts are also presented as the respective balance
    sheet amounts.  

ILFC 

The cash used for the purchase of flight equipment is derived
primarily from the proceeds of ILFC s debt financings. The
primary sources for the repayment of this debt and the related
interest expense are ILFC s cash flow from operations,
proceeds from the sale of flight equipment and the rollover and
refinancing of the prior debt. During 2007, ILFC acquired flight
equipment costing $4.7 billion. For a further discussion of
ILFC s borrowings, see Operating Review  
Financial Services Operations   Aircraft Leasing and
Capital Resources and Liquidity   Borrowings herein.

At December 31, 2007, ILFC had committed to
purchase 234 new aircraft deliverable from 2008 through
2017 for an estimated aggregate purchase price of
$20.1 billion. As of February 22, 2008, ILFC has entered
into leases for all of the new aircraft to be delivered in 2008,
and for 65 of 161 of the new aircraft to be delivered subsequent
to 2008. ILFC will be required to find customers for any
aircraft currently on order and any aircraft to be ordered, and
it must arrange financing for portions of the purchase price of
such equipment. ILFC has been successful to date both in placing
its new aircraft on lease or under sales contract and obtaining
adequate financing, but there can be no assurance that such
success will continue in future environments.

AIG 2007
Form  10-K          
107 

Table of Contents   

American International Group, Inc. and Subsidiaries

Management s Discussion and Analysis of 

Financial Condition and Results of
Operations    Continued  

Asset Management Invested Assets

Asset Management invested assets are primarily comprised of
assets supporting AIG s Spread-Based Investment business,
which includes AIG s MIP and domestic GIC programs.

The Spread-Based Investment business strategy is to generate
spread income from investments yielding returns greater than
AIG s cost of funds. The asset-liability relationship is
actively managed. The goal of the MIP investment strategy is to
capture a spread between income earned on investments and the
funding costs of the program while mitigating interest rate and
foreign currency exchange rate risk. The invested assets are
predominantly fixed income securities and include U.S.
residential mortgage-backed securities, asset-backed securities
and commercial mortgage-backed securities. In addition, the MIP
sold credit protection by issuing single-name high-grade
corporate credit default swaps in 2007.

Asset Management invested assets grew by $3.8 billion
during 2007. The growth in invested assets was primarily
attributable to growth in other invested assets and mortgage and
other loans receivable partially offset by a decrease in bond
holdings, and short-term investments. These increases were
primarily driven by continued growth of the MIP and the growth
of AIG s Institutional Asset Management business. These
increases were partially offset by the decrease in assets
associated with the runoff of the domestic GIC program.

Securities Lending Activities

AIG s securities lending program is a centrally managed
program facilitated by AIG Investments primarily for the benefit
of certain of AIG s Insurance companies. Securities are
loaned to various financial institutions, primarily major banks
and brokerage firms. Cash collateral equal to 102 percent of the
fair value of the loaned securities is received. The cash
collateral is invested in highly-rated fixed income securities
to earn a net spread.

AIG s liability to the borrower for collateral received was
$82.0 billion and the fair value of the collateral reinvested
was $75.7 billion as of December 31, 2007. In addition to
the invested collateral, the securities on loan as well as all
of the assets of the participating companies are generally
available to satisfy the liability for collateral received.

The composition of the securities lending invested collateral
by credit rating at December 31, 2007 was as follows: 

Participation in the securities lending program by reporting
unit at December 31, 2007 was as follows: 

Percent    

Participation    

Domestic Life Insurance and Retirement Services

79 
     % 

Foreign Life Insurance

10 

Domestic General Insurance

3 

Foreign General Insurance

4 

Asset Management

4 

Total

100.0 
     % 

On December 31, 2007, $11.4 billion (or 13.7 percent) of
the liabilities were one-day tenor. These one-day tenor loans do
not have a contractual end date but are terminable by either
party on demand. The balance of the liabilities contractually
mature within three months; however, the maturing loans are
frequently renewed and rolled over to extended dates. Collateral
held for this program at December 31, 2007 included
interest bearing cash equivalents with overnight maturities of
$12.0 billion.

Liquidity in the securities pool is managed based upon
historical experience regarding volatility of daily, weekly and
biweekly loan balances. Despite the current environment, the
program has not experienced a significant decrease in loan
balances.

In addition, the invested securities are carried at fair value
with unrealized gains and losses recorded in accumulated other
comprehensive income (loss) while net realized gains and losses
are recorded in earnings. The net unrealized loss on the
investments was $5.0 billion as of December 31, 2007.
During 2007, AIG incurred net realized losses of
$1.0 billion on this portfolio, predominantly related to
other-than-temporary impairments.

Valuation of Invested Assets

Traded Securities 

The valuation of AIG s investment portfolio involves
obtaining a fair value for each security. The source for the
fair value is generally from market exchanges or dealer
quotations, with the exception of nontraded securities.

Nontraded Securities 

AIG considers nontraded securities to mean certain fixed income
investments, certain structured securities, direct private
equities, limited partnerships, and hedge funds.

The aggregate carrying value of AIG s nontraded securities
at December 31, 2007 was approximately $70 billion.
The methodology used to estimate fair value of nontraded fixed
income investments is by reference to traded securities with
similar attributes and using a matrix pricing methodology. This
methodology takes into account such factors as the issuer s
industry, the security s rating and tenor, its coupon rate,
its position in the capital structure of the issuer, and other
relevant factors.

For certain structured securities, the carrying value is based
on an estimate of the security s future cash flows pursuant
to the requirements of Emerging Issues Task Force Issue
No.  99-20, 

108         AIG
2007 Form  10-K 

Table of Contents   

American International Group, Inc. and Subsidiaries

Recognition of Interest Income and Impairment on Purchased
and Retained Beneficial Interests in Securitized Financial
Assets. 

Hedge funds and limited partnerships in which AIG holds in the
aggregate less than a five percent interest are carried at fair
value.

With respect to hedge funds and limited partnerships in which
AIG holds in the aggregate a five percent or greater interest,
or less than a five percent interest but where AIG has more than
a minor influence over the operations of the investee, AIG
accounts for these investments using the equity method.

AIG obtains the fair value of its investments in limited
partnerships and hedge funds from information provided by the
general partner or manager of these investments, the accounts of
which generally are audited on an annual basis.

Each of these investment categories is regularly tested to
determine if impairment in value exists. Various valuation
techniques are used with respect to each category in this
determination.

For a discussion of accounting policies related to changes in
fair value of invested assets, see Note 1 to Consolidated
Financial Statements.

Portfolio Review 

Other-Than-Temporary
Impairments  

AIG assesses its ability to hold any fixed maturity security in
an unrealized loss position to its recovery, including fixed
maturity securities classified as available for sale, at each
balance sheet date. The decision to sell any such fixed maturity
security classified as available for sale reflects the judgment
of AIG s management that the security sold is unlikely to
provide, on a relative value basis, as attractive a return in
the future as alternative securities entailing comparable risks.
With respect to distressed securities, the sale decision
reflects management s judgment that the risk-discounted
anticipated ultimate recovery is less than the value achievable
on sale.

AIG evaluates its investments for impairments in valuation. The
determination that a security has incurred an
other-than-temporary impairment in value and the amount of any
loss recognition requires the judgment of AIG s management
and a regular review of its investments. See Note 1(c) to
Consolidated Financial Statements for further information on
AIG s policy.

Once a security has been identified as other-than-temporarily
impaired, the amount of such impairment is determined by
reference to that security s contemporaneous fair value and
recorded as a charge to earnings.

In light of the recent significant disruption in the
U.S. residential mortgage and credit markets, particularly
in the fourth quarter, AIG has recognized an
other-than-temporary impairment charge (severity loss) of
$2.2 billion (including $643 million related to
AIGFP s available for sale investment securities recorded
in other income), primarily with respect to certain residential
mortgage-backed securities and other structured securities. Even
while retaining their investment grade ratings, such securities
were priced at a significant discount to cost. Notwithstanding
AIG s intent and ability to hold such securities
indefinitely, and despite structures which indicate that a
substantial amount of the securities should continue to perform
in accordance with original terms, AIG concluded that it could
not reasonably assert that the recovery period would be
temporary.

As a result of AIG s periodic evaluation of its securities
for other-than-temporary impairments in value, AIG recorded
other-than-temporary impairment charges of $4.7 billion
(including $643 million related to AIGFP recorded on other
income), $944 million and $598 million in 2007, 2006
and 2005, respectively.

In addition to the above severity losses, AIG recorded
other-than-temporary impairment charges in 2007, 2006 and 2005
related to:

securities which AIG does not intend to hold until recovery; 

declines due to foreign exchange; 

issuer-specific credit events; 

certain structured securities impaired under EITF
    No.  99-20;  and 

other impairments, including equity securities and partnership
    investments. 

Net realized capital gains (losses) for the years ended
December 31, 2007, 2006 and 2005 were as follows: 

*   
     
     Reported as part of other income.  

AIG 2007
Form  10-K          
109 

Table of Contents   

American International Group, Inc. and Subsidiaries

Management s Discussion and Analysis of 

Financial Condition and Results of
Operations    Continued  

Other-than-temporary impairment charges for the years ended
December 31, 2007, 2006 and 2005 were as follows: 

*   
     
     Includes $643 million related to AIGFP reported in
    other income.  

Other-than-temporary impairment charges for the year ended
December 31, 2007 by Reporting Segment were as follows: 

Other-than-temporary severity-related impairment charges for
the year ended December 31, 2007 were as follows: 

No other-than-temporary impairment charge with respect to any
one single credit was significant to AIG s consolidated
financial condition or results of operations, and no individual
other-than-temporary impairment charge exceeded two percent
of consolidated net income in 2007.

In periods subsequent to the recognition of an
other-than-temporary impairment charge for fixed maturity
securities, which is not credit or foreign exchange related, AIG
generally accretes into income the discount or amortizes the
reduced premium resulting from the reduction in cost basis over
the remaining life of the security.

Commercial Mortgage Loan Exposure  

At December 31, 2007, AIG had direct commercial mortgage
loan exposure of $17.1 billion, with $16.3 billion
representing U.S. loan exposure. At that date, none of the
U.S. loans were in default or delinquent by 90 days or
more. The remaining commercial mortgage loans are secured
predominantly by properties in Japan. In addition, at
December 31, 2007, AIG had approximately $2.0 billion
in residential mortgage loans in jurisdictions outside the
United States, primarily backed by properties in Taiwan and
Thailand.

At December 31, 2007, AIG owned $23.9 billion in cost
basis of CMBS. Approximately 78 percent of such holdings
were rated  AAA , approximately 98 percent were
rated  A  or higher, and less than 2 percent were
rated  BBB  or below. At December 31, 2007, all
such securities were current in the payment of principal and
interest and none had default rates on underlying collateral at
levels viewed by AIG as likely to result in the loss of
principal or interest.

110         AIG
2007 Form  10-K 

Table of Contents   

American International Group, Inc. and Subsidiaries

There have been disruptions in the commercial mortgage markets
in general, and the CMBS market in particular, with credit
default swaps indices and quoted prices of securities at levels
consistent with a severe correction in lease rates, occupancy
and fair value of properties. In addition, spreads in the
primary mortgage market have widened significantly. While this
capital market stress has not to date been reflected in the
performance of commercial mortgage securitization in the form of
increased defaults in underlying mortgage pools, pricing of CMBS
has been adversely affected by market perceptions that
underlying mortgage defaults will increase. As a result, AIG
recognized $135 million of other-than-temporary impairment
charges on CMBS trading at a severe discount to cost, despite
the absence of any deterioration in performance of the
underlying credits, because AIG concluded that it could not
reasonably assert that the recovery period was temporary. At
this time, AIG anticipates full recovery of principal and
interest on the securities to which such other-than-temporary
impairment charges were recorded.

An aging of the pre-tax unrealized
losses of fixed maturity and equity securities, distributed as a
percentage of cost relative to unrealized loss (the extent by
which the fair value is less than amortized cost or cost),
including the number of respective items, was as follows at
December 31, 2007:  

(a)  
     
     For bonds, represents amortized cost.  

(b)  
     
     The effect on net income of unrealized losses after taxes
    will be mitigated upon realization because certain realized
    losses will be charged to participating policyholder accounts,
    or realization will result in current decreases in the
    amortization of certain DAC.  

(c)  
     
     Includes securities lending invested collateral.  

(d)  
     
     Represents the number of continuous months that fair value
    has been less than cost by any amount.  

(e)  
     
     Represents the percentage by which fair value is less than
    cost at the balance sheet date.  

Unrealized gains and losses 

At December 31, 2007, the fair value of AIG s fixed
maturity and equity securities aggregated $587.1 billion.
At December 31, 2007, aggregate pre-tax unrealized gains
for fixed maturity and equity securities were $18.1 billion
($11.8 billion after tax).

At December 31, 2007, the aggregate pre-tax gross
unrealized losses on fixed maturity and equity securities were
$13.6 billion

AIG 2007
Form  10-K          
111 

Table of Contents   

American International Group, Inc. and Subsidiaries

Management s Discussion and Analysis of 

Financial Condition and Results of
Operations    Continued  

($8.9 billion after tax). Additional information about
these securities is as follows:

These securities were valued, in the aggregate, at approximately
    95 percent of their current amortized cost. 

Less than three percent of these securities were valued at
    less than 20 percent of their current cost, or amortized
    cost. 

Less than four percent of the fixed income securities had
    issuer credit ratings which were below investment grade. 

AIG did not consider these securities in an unrealized loss
position to be other-than-temporarily impaired at
December 31, 2007, as management has the intent and ability
to hold these investments until they recover their cost basis.
AIG believes the securities will generally continue to perform
in accordance with the original terms, notwithstanding the
present price declines.

At December 31, 2007, unrealized losses for fixed maturity
securities and equity securities did not reflect any significant
industry concentrations.

In 2007, unrealized losses related to investment grade bonds
increased $9.3 billion ($6.1 billion after tax),
reflecting the widening of credit spreads, partially offset by
the effects of a decline in risk-free interest rates.

The amortized cost and fair value of
fixed maturity securities available for sale in an unrealized
loss position at December 31, 2007, by contractual
maturity, is shown below:  

For the year ended December 31, 2007, the pre-tax realized
losses incurred with respect to the sale of fixed maturities and
equity securities were $1.3 billion. The aggregate fair
value of securities sold was $38.0 billion, which was
approximately 94 percent of amortized cost. The average
period of time that securities sold at a loss during 2007 were
trading continuously at a price below book value was
approximately five months. See Risk Management  
Investments herein for an additional discussion of investment
risks associated with AIG s investment portfolio.

Risk Management  

Overview

AIG believes that strong risk management practices and a sound
internal control environment are fundamental to its continued
success and profitable growth. Failure to manage risk properly
exposes AIG to significant losses, regulatory issues and a
damaged reputation.

The major risks to which AIG is exposed include the following:

Credit risk    the potential loss arising from
    an obligor s inability or unwillingness to meet its
    obligations to AIG. 

Market risk    the potential loss arising from
    adverse fluctuations in interest rates, foreign currencies,
    equity and commodity prices, and their levels of volatility. 

Operational risk    the potential loss resulting
    from inadequate or failed internal processes, people, and
    systems, or from external events. 

Liquidity risk    the potential inability to
    meet all payment obligations when they become due. 

General insurance risk    the potential loss
    resulting from inadequate premiums, insufficient reserves and
    catastrophic exposures. 

Life insurance risk    the potential loss
    resulting from experience deviating from expectations for
    mortality, morbidity and termination rates in the
    insurance-oriented products and insufficient cash flows to cover
    contract liabilities in the retirement savings products. 

AIG senior management establishes the framework, principles and
guidelines for risk management. The primary focus of risk
management is to assess the risk of AIG incurring economic
losses from the risk categories outlined above. The business
executives are responsible for establishing and implementing
risk management processes and responding to the individual needs
and issues within their business, including risk concentrations
within their respective businesses with appropriate oversight by
Enterprise Risk Management (ERM).

Corporate Risk Management

AIG s major risks are addressed at the corporate level
through ERM, which is headed by AIG s Chief Risk Officer
(CRO). ERM is responsible for assisting AIG s business
leaders, executive management and the Board of Directors to
identify, assess, quantify, manage and mitigate the risks
incurred by AIG. Through the CRO, ERM reports to AIG s
Chief Financial Officer, various senior management committees
and the Board of Directors through the Finance and Audit
Committees.

An important goal of ERM is to ensure that once appropriate
governance, authorities, procedures and policies have been
established, aggregated risks do not result in inappropriate
concentrations. Senior management defines the policies, has
established general operating parameters for its global
businesses and has established various oversight committees to
monitor the risks attendant to its businesses:

The Financial Risk Committee (FRC) oversees AIG s
    market risk exposures to interest rates, foreign exchange and
    fair values of shares, partnership interests, real estate and
    other equity investments and provides strategic direction for
    AIG s asset-liability management. The FRC meets monthly and
    acts as a central mechanism for AIG senior management to review
    comprehensive information on AIG s financial exposures and
    to exercise broad control over these exposures. There are two
    subcommittees of the FRC. 

The Foreign Exchange Committee monitors trends in foreign
    exchange rates, reviews AIG s foreign exchange exposures,
    and provides recommendations on foreign currency asset
    allocation and remittance hedging. 

112         AIG
2007 Form  10-K 

Table of Contents   

American International Group, Inc. and Subsidiaries

The Liquidity Risk Committee is responsible for liquidity policy
    and implementation at AIG Parent and exercises oversight and
    control of liquidity policies at each AIG entity. See Capital
    Resources and Liquidity herein. 

The CRC is responsible for the following: 

approving credit risk policies and procedures for use throughout
    AIG; 

delegating credit authority to business unit credit officers and
    select business unit managers; 

approving transaction requests and limits for corporate,
    sovereign and cross-border credit exposures that exceed the
    delegated authorities; 

establishing and maintaining AIG s risk rating process for
    corporate, financial and sovereign obligors; and 

conducting regular reviews of credit risk exposures in the
    portfolios of all credit-incurring business units. 

The Derivatives Committee (DC) reviews any proposed derivative
    transaction or program not otherwise managed by AIGFP. The DC
    examines, among other things, the nature and purpose of the
    derivative transaction, its potential credit exposure, if any,
    and the estimated benefits. 

The CSFTC has the authority and responsibility to review
    and approve any proposed CSFT. A CSFT is any transaction or
    product that may involve a heightened legal, regulatory,
    accounting or reputational risk that is developed, marketed or
    proposed by AIG or a third party. The CSFTC provides guidance to
    and monitors the activities of transaction review committees
    (TRCs) which have been established in all major business units.
    TRCs have the responsibility to identify, review and refer CSFTs
    to the CSFTC. 

Credit Risk Management 

AIG devotes considerable resources, expertise and controls to
managing its direct and indirect credit exposures, such as
investments, deposits, loans, reinsurance recoverables and
leases, as well as counterparty risk in derivatives activities,
cessions of insurance risk to reinsurers and customers and
credit risk assumed through credit derivatives written and
financial guarantees. Credit risk is defined as the risk that
AIG s customers or counterparties are unable or unwilling
to repay their contractual obligations when they become due.
Credit risk may also be manifested: (i) through the
downgrading of credit ratings of counterparties whose credit
instruments AIG may be holding, or, in some cases, insuring,
causing the value of the assets to decline or insured risks to
rise; and (ii) as cross-border risk where a country
(sovereign government risk) or one or more non-sovereign
obligors within a country are unable to repay an obligation or
are unable to provide foreign exchange to service a credit or
equity exposure incurred by another AIG business unit located
outside that country.

AIG s credit risks are managed at the corporate level by
the Credit Risk Management department (CRM) whose primary
role is to support and supplement the work of the CRC. CRM is
headed by AIG s Chief Credit Officer (CCO), who reports to
AIG s CRO. AIG s CCO is primarily responsible for the
development and maintenance of credit risk policies and
procedures approved by the CRC. In discharging this function CRM
has the following responsibilities:

Manage the approval process for all requests for credit limits,
    program limits and transactions. 

Approve delegated credit authorities to CRM credit executives
    and business unit credit officers. 

Aggregate globally all credit exposure data by counterparty,
    country and industry and report risk concentrations regularly to
    the CRC and the Finance Committee of the Board of Directors. 

Administer regular in-depth portfolio credit reviews of all
    investment, derivative and credit-incurring business units and
    recommend any corrective actions where required. 

Develop methodologies for quantification and assessment of
    credit risks, including the establishment and maintenance of
    AIG s internal risk rating process. 

Approve appropriate credit reserves and methodologies at the
    business unit and enterprise levels. 

AIG closely monitors and controls its company-wide credit risk
concentrations and attempts to avoid unwanted or excessive risk
accumulations, whether funded or unfunded. To minimize the level
of credit risk in certain circumstances, AIG may require
third-party guarantees, collateral, such as letters of credit or
trust account deposits or reinsurance. These guarantees, letters
of credit and reinsurance recoverables are also treated as
credit exposure and are added to AIG s risk concentration
exposure data.

AIG defines its aggregate credit exposures to a counterparty as
the sum of its fixed maturities, loans, finance leases,
derivatives (mark to market), deposits (in the case of financial
institutions) and the specified credit equivalent exposure to
certain insurance products which embody credit risk.

AIG 2007
Form  10-K          
113 

Table of Contents   

American International Group, Inc. and Subsidiaries

Management s Discussion and Analysis of 

Financial Condition and Results of
Operations    Continued  

The following table presents AIG s
largest credit exposures at December 31, 2007 as a
percentage of total shareholders  equity:  

Credit Exposure   

as a Percentage of Total   

Category 
       
     Risk Rating  (a)     
       
     Shareholders  Equity   

Investment Grade: 

10 largest combined

A+ (weighted average 
     )   (b)   

84.8 
     % 

Single largest non-sovereign (financial institution)

AA 
     - 

8.4 

Single largest corporate

AAA 

5.4 

Single largest sovereign

A 

15.7 

Non-Investment Grade: 

Single largest sovereign

BB 
     - 

1.8 

Single largest non-sovereign

B 
     + 

0.5 

(a)   
     
     Risk rating is based on external ratings, or equivalent,
    based on AIG s internal risk rating process.  

(b)   
     
     Six of the ten largest credit exposures are to highly-rated
    financial institutions and three are to investment-grade rated
    sovereigns; none is rated lower than BBB+ or its equivalent.  

AIG closely controls its aggregate cross-border exposures to
avoid excessive concentrations in any one country or regional
group of countries. AIG defines its cross-border exposure to
include both cross-border credit exposures and its large
cross-border investments in its own international subsidiaries.
Ten countries had cross-border exposures in excess of
10 percent of total shareholders  equity; seven are
 AAA-rated  and three are
 AA-rated. 

In addition, AIG closely monitors its industry concentrations,
the risks of which are often mitigated by the breadth and scope
of AIG s international operations.

AIG s single largest industry credit exposure is to the
    highly-rated global financial institutions sector, accounting
    for 87 percent of total shareholders  equity at
    December 31, 2007. 

Excluding the U.S. residential and commercial mortgage
    sectors, AIG s other industry credit concentrations in
    excess of 10 percent of total shareholders  equity at
    December 31, 2007 are to the following industries (in
    descending order by approximate size): 

Electric and water utilities;

Oil and gas;

European regional financial institutions;

Global telecommunications companies;

Global life insurance carriers;

U.S.-based 
regional financial institutions;

Global securities firms and exchanges; and

Global reinsurance firms.

AIG participates in the U.S. residential and commercial
mortgage markets through AGF, which originates principally
first-lien mortgage loans and, to a lesser extent, second-lien
mortgage loans to buyers and owners of residential housing; UGC
which provides first loss mortgage guaranty insurance for high
 loan-to -value first-
and second-lien residential mortgages; AIG Investments which
invests in mortgage-backed securities and collateralized debt
obligations, on behalf of AIG insurance and financial services
subsidiaries, in which the underlying collateral comprises
residential or commercial mortgage loans; and AIGFP which
invests in highly rated tranches of RMBS, CMBS and CDOs and
provides credit protection through credit default swaps on
certain super senior tranches of CDOs. In addition, AIG
Investments invests directly in commercial real estate
properties and provides real estate commercial mortgage loans.

Some of AIG s exposures are insured ( wrapped )
by financial guarantor insurance companies, also known as
 monoline insurers , which at December 31, 2007,
provide AIG over $44 billion (carrying value) in financial
support. The monoline insurers include MBIA, Ambac, FGIC, and
others and provide support predominantly in the United States.
AIG does not rely on the monoline insurance as its principal
source of repayment when evaluating securities for purchase. All
investment securities are evaluated primarily based on the
underlying cash flow generation capacities of the issuer or cash
flow characteristics of the security.

Approximately 96 percent of the monoline protection is
provided on AIG Investments  fixed maturities exposures, of
which municipal securities represent 74 percent of assets
insured, substantially all of which had underlying credit
ratings of  A  or higher. AIG considers that the
monoline wrap for such securities is of limited support, as the
default rate on single A and higher rated municipal bonds has
historically been negligible. However, AIG anticipates that the
failure of one or more monoline insurers may cause price
volatility and other disruption in the municipal bond market, as
market participants adjust to the absence of monoline credit
support. AIG maintains a credit staff to evaluate its municipal
bond holdings, and does not rely on monoline insurers in
evaluating securities for its municipal bond portfolios.

Approximately four percent of AIG s monoline insurance
supports AIGFP investment exposures.

For the non-municipal assets in the AIG Investments portfolio,
at December 31, 2007, AIG owned $9.5 billion in cost
basis or $8.8 billion in fair value of various types of
asset-backed securities wrapped by one or more of the monoline
insurers. Based on internal analysis, approximately
$6.7 billion in cost basis represented holdings with
underlying ratings estimated at BBB or higher. AIG has generally
viewed the monoline credit support on these securities as
significant only to  tail  risk, that is, the risk
that as pools of underlying assets amortize, the remaining
assets, or  tail , may suffer from adverse selection
on prepayments or from a lack of adequate risk diversification.
While

114         AIG
2007 Form  10-K 

Table of Contents   

American International Group, Inc. and Subsidiaries

these securities initially had underlying investment grade
ratings, poor pool performance has in some cases resulted in
current ratings of below investment grade. The amount of
ultimate loss exposure of these securities to the monoline
insurers is a function of the ultimate performance of the
collateral pools and cannot be reliably estimated. AIG believes
that monoline insurers are currently providing payment support
on approximately $380 million of such securities.

The CRC reviews quarterly concentration reports in all
categories listed above as well as credit trends by risk
ratings. The CRC may adjust limits to provide reasonable
assurance that AIG does not incur excessive levels of credit
risk and that AIG s credit risk profile is properly
calibrated across business units.

Market Risk Management 

AIG is exposed to market risks, primarily within its insurance
and capital markets businesses. These asset-liability exposures
are predominantly structural in nature, and not the result of
speculative positioning to take advantage of short-term market
opportunities. The Market Risk Management department (MRM),
which reports to the CRO, is responsible for control and
oversight of market risks in all aspects of AIG s financial
services, insurance, and investment activities.

AIG s market exposures arise from the following:

AIG is a globally diversified enterprise with capital deployed
    in a variety of currencies. Capital deployed in AIG s
    overseas businesses, when converted into U.S. dollars for
    financial reporting purposes, constitutes a  long foreign
    currency/short U.S. dollar  market exposure on
    AIG s balance sheet. Similarly, overseas earnings
    denominated in foreign currency also represent a  long
    foreign currency/short U.S. dollar  market exposure on
    AIG s income statement. 

Much of AIG s domestic capital is invested in U.S. fixed
    income or equity securities, leading to exposures to
    U.S. yields and equity markets. 

Several of AIG s Foreign Life Insurance subsidiaries
    operate in developing markets where maturities on longer-term
    life insurance liabilities exceed the maximum maturities of
    available local currency assets. 

As a globally diversified enterprise, AIG is exposed to a
variety of foreign currency risks. AIG earns a significant
portion of its income from operations conducted in foreign
currencies which must be translated into U.S. dollars for
consolidated reporting purposes. Consequently, exchange rate
fluctuations can cause volatility in AIG s reported
earnings. When the U.S. dollar weakens against other
currencies, AIG s earnings increase. When the
U.S. dollar strengthens against other currencies,
AIG s earnings decline.

The sensitivity of AIG s consolidated shareholders 
equity to foreign exchange volatility is more complex. AIG has
significant capital committed overseas, which rises in value on
AIG s consolidated balance sheet when the U.S. dollar
weakens. AIG also has significant U.S. dollar asset
holdings overseas, which offset the foreign exchange exposure
arising from AIG s overseas capital. Similar to the income
statement, AIG s overall balance sheet is net long foreign
currencies and net short U.S. dollars.

The table below provides an estimate of the sensitivity of
shareholders  equity and net income to 10 percent
changes in the value of the U.S. dollar relative to foreign
currencies as of December 31, 2007, assuming a tax rate of
35 percent: 

AIG analyzes market risk using various statistical techniques
including Value at Risk (VaR). VaR is a summary statistical
measure that uses the estimated volatility and correlation of
market factors to calculate the maximum loss that could occur
over a defined period of time with a specified level of
statistical confidence. VaR measures not only the size of
individual exposures but also the interaction between different
market exposures, thereby providing a portfolio approach to
measuring market risk. Similar VaR methodologies are used to
determine capital requirements for market risk within AIG s
economic capital framework.

Insurance, Asset Management and
Non-Trading Financial Services VaR  

AIG performs one comprehensive VaR analysis across all of its
non-trading businesses, and a separate VaR analysis for its
trading business at AIGFP. The comprehensive VaR is categorized
by AIG business segment (General Insurance, Life
Insurance & Retirement Services, Financial Services and
Asset Management) and also by market risk factor (interest rate,
currency and equity). AIG s market risk VaR calculations
include exposures to benchmark Treasury or swap interest rates,
but do not include exposures to credit-based factors such as
credit spreads. AIG s credit exposures within its invested
assets and credit derivative portfolios are discussed in Credit
Risk Management   Financial Services herein.

For the insurance segments, assets included are invested assets
(excluding direct holdings of real estate) and liabilities
included are reserve for losses and loss expenses, reserve for
unearned premiums, future policy benefits for life and accident
and health insurance contracts and other policyholders 
funds. For financial services companies, loans and leases
represent the majority of assets represented in the VaR
calculation, while bonds and notes issued represent the majority
of liabilities.

AIG calculated the VaR with respect to net fair values as of
December 31, 2007 and 2006. The VaR number represents the
maximum potential loss as of those dates that could be incurred
with a 95 percent confidence (i.e., only five percent of
historical scenarios show losses greater than the VaR figure)
within a one-month holding period. AIG uses the historical
simulation methodology that entails repricing all assets and
liabilities under explicit changes in market rates within a
specific historical time period. AIG uses the most recent three
years of historical market information for interest rates,
foreign exchange rates, and equity

AIG 2007
Form  10-K          
115 

Table of Contents   

American International Group, Inc. and Subsidiaries

Management s Discussion and Analysis of 

Financial Condition and Results of
Operations    Continued  

index prices. For each scenario, each transaction was repriced.
Segment and AIG-wide scenario values are then calculated by
netting the values of all the underlying assets and liabilities.

The following table presents the
period-end, average, high and low VaRs on a diversified basis
and of each component of market risk for AIG s non-trading
businesses. The diversified VaR is usually smaller than the sum
of its components due to correlation effects.  

AIG s total non-trading VaR increased from
$5.1 billion at December 31, 2006 to $5.6 billion
at December 31, 2007, primarily due to higher exposures to
U.S. equity risk. The higher contribution of
U.S. equity risk during 2007 was driven by a combination of
three factors:

increased U.S. equity investment allocation in the General
    Insurance and Life Insurance & Retirement Services
    segments, 

increased volatility in U.S. equity prices, and 

rising correlations between U.S. equities and AIG s
    structural duration exposures in Asia. 

Interest rate and foreign exchange volatilities generally
moderated during 2007.

Operational Risk Management 

AIG s corporate-level Operational Risk Management
department (ORM) oversees AIG s operational risk
management practices. The Director of ORM reports to the CRO.
ORM is responsible for establishing the framework, principles
and guidelines for operational risk management. ORM also manages
compliance with the requirements of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of
2002.

Each business unit is responsible for implementing the
components of AIG s operational risk management program to
ensure that effective operational risk management practices are
utilized throughout AIG.

Upon full implementation, the program will consist of a risk and
control self assessment (RCSA) process, risk event data
analysis, key risk indicators and governance. To date, AIG has
developed the methodology for performing a combined operational
risk and compliance RCSA in each of AIG s key business
units.

Insurance Risk Management 

Reinsurance  

AIG uses reinsurance programs for its insurance risks as follows:

facultative to cover large individual exposures; 

quota share treaties to cover specific books of business; 

excess of loss treaties to cover large losses; 

excess or surplus automatic treaties to cover individual life
    risks in excess of stated per-life retention limits; and 

catastrophe treaties to cover specific catastrophes including
    earthquake, windstorm and flood. 

116         AIG
2007 Form  10-K 

Table of Contents   

American International Group, Inc. and Subsidiaries

AIG s Reinsurance Security Department (RSD) conducts
periodic detailed assessments of the financial status and
condition of current and potential reinsurers, both foreign and
domestic. The RSD monitors both the nature of the risks ceded to
the reinsurers and the aggregation of total reinsurance
recoverables ceded to reinsurers. Such assessments may include,
but are not limited to, identifying if a reinsurer is
appropriately licensed and has sufficient financial capacity,
and evaluating the local economic environment in which a foreign
reinsurer operates.

The RSD reviews the nature of the risks ceded to reinsurers and
the need for credit risk mitigants. For example, in AIG s
treaty reinsurance contracts, AIG frequently includes provisions
that require a reinsurer to post collateral when a referenced
event occurs. Furthermore, AIG limits its unsecured exposure to
reinsurers through the use of credit triggers, which include,
but are not limited to, insurer financial strength rating
downgrades, declines in policyholders surplus below
predetermined levels, decreases in the NAIC risk-based capital
(RBC) ratio or reaching maximum limits of reinsurance
recoverables. In addition, AIG s CRC reviews all reinsurer
exposures and credit limits and approves most large reinsurer
credit limits that represent actual or potential credit
concentrations. AIG believes that no exposure to a single
reinsurer represents an inappropriate concentration of risk to
AIG, nor is AIG s business substantially dependent upon any
single reinsurance contract.

AIG enters into intercompany reinsurance transactions for its
General Insurance and Life Insurance & Retirement
Services operations. AIG enters into these transactions as a
sound and prudent business practice in order to maintain
underwriting control and spread insurance risk among AIG s
various legal entities and to leverage economies of scale with
external reinsurers. When required for statutory recognition,
AIG obtains letters of credit from third-party financial
institutions to collateralize these intercompany transactions.
At December 31, 2007, approximately $8.8 billion of
letters of credit were outstanding to cover intercompany
reinsurance transactions between subsidiaries.

Although reinsurance arrangements do not relieve AIG
subsidiaries from their direct obligations to insureds, an
efficient and effective reinsurance program substantially
mitigates AIG s exposure to potentially significant losses.
AIG continually evaluates the reinsurance markets and the
relative attractiveness of various arrangements for coverage,
including structures such as catastrophe bonds, insurance risk
securitizations,  sidecars  and similar vehicles.

Based on this ongoing evaluation and other factors, effective
December 31, 2007, Lexington and Concord Re Limited agreed
to commute their quota share reinsurance agreement covering
U.S. commercial property insurance business written by
Lexington on a risk attaching basis. This agreement was
effective in July 2006 and was due to expire on January 15,
2008.

For 2008, AIG purchased a U.S. catastrophe coverage of
approximately $1.1 billion in excess of a per occurrence
deductible of $1.5 billion. For Life Insurance &
Retirement Services, AIG s 2008 catastrophe program covers
losses of $250 million in excess of $200 million for
Japan and Taiwan only.

Reinsurance Recoverable

General reinsurance recoverable assets are comprised of:

balances due from reinsurers for indemnity losses and loss
    expenses billed to, but not yet collected from, reinsurers (Paid
    Losses Recoverable); 

ultimate ceded reserves for indemnity losses and expenses
    includes reserves for claims reported but not yet paid and
    estimates for IBNR (collectively, Ceded Loss Reserves); and 

Ceded Reserves for Unearned Premiums. 

At December 31, 2007, general reinsurance assets of
$21.5 billion include Paid Losses Recoverable of
$1.8 billion and Ceded Loss Reserves of $16.2 billion,
and $4.0 billion of Ceded Reserves for Unearned Premiums.
The methods used to estimate IBNR and to establish the resulting
ultimate losses involve projecting the frequency and severity of
losses over multiple years and are continually reviewed and
updated by management. Any adjustments are reflected in income
currently. It is AIG s belief that the ceded reserves for
losses and loss expenses at December 31, 2007 were
representative of the ultimate losses recoverable. Actual losses
may differ from the reserves currently ceded.

AIG manages the credit risk in its reinsurance relationships by
transacting with reinsurers that it considers financially sound,
and when necessary AIG requires reinsurers to post substantial
collateral in the form of funds, securities and/or irrevocable
letters of credit. This collateral can be drawn on for amounts
that remain unpaid beyond specified time periods on an
individual reinsurer basis. At December 31, 2007,
approximately 55 percent of the general reinsurance assets
were from unauthorized reinsurers. The terms authorized and
unauthorized pertain to regulatory categories, not
creditworthiness. More than 50 percent of these balances
were collateralized, permitting statutory recognition.
Additionally, with the approval of insurance regulators, AIG
posted approximately $1.8 billion of letters of credit
issued by commercial banks in favor of certain Domestic General
Insurance companies to permit those companies statutory
recognition of balances otherwise uncollateralized at
December 31, 2007. The remaining 45 percent of the
general reinsurance assets were from authorized reinsurers. At
December 31, 2007, approximately 87 percent of the
balances with respect to authorized reinsurers are from
reinsurers rated A (excellent) or better, as rated by A.M.
Best, or A (strong) or better, as rated by S&P. These
ratings are measures of financial strength.

AIG 2007
Form  10-K          
117 

Table of Contents   

American International Group, Inc. and Subsidiaries

Management s Discussion and Analysis of 

Financial Condition and Results of
Operations    Continued  

The following table provides
information for each reinsurer representing in excess of five
percent of AIG s reinsurance assets at December 31,
2007:  

(a)  
     
     Rating designations as of February 19, 2008.  

(b)  
     
     Excludes collateral held in excess of applicable treaty
    balances.  

(c)  
     
     Excludes Equitas gross reinsurance assets that are unrated,
    which are less than five percent of AIG s general
    reinsurance assets.  

AIG maintains an allowance for estimated unrecoverable
reinsurance of $520 million. At December 31, 2007, AIG
had no significant reinsurance recoverables due from any
individual reinsurer that was financially troubled
(i.e., liquidated, insolvent, in receivership or otherwise
subject to formal or informal regulatory restriction).

Segment Risk Management

Other than as described above, AIG manages its business risk
oversight activities through its business segments.

Insurance Operations 

AIG s multiple insurance businesses conducted on a global
basis expose AIG to a wide variety of risks with different time
horizons. These risks are managed throughout the organization,
both centrally and locally, through a number of procedures,
including: (i) pre-launch approval of product design,
development and distribution; (ii) underwriting approval
processes and authorities; (iii) exposure limits with
ongoing monitoring; (iv) modeling and reporting of
aggregations and limit concentrations at multiple levels
(policy, line of business, product group, country,
individual/group, correlation and catastrophic risk events);
(v) compliance with financial reporting and capital and
solvency targets; (vi) extensive use of reinsurance, both
internal and third-party; and (vii) review and
establishment of reserves.

AIG closely manages insurance risk by overseeing and controlling
the nature and geographic location of the risks in each line of
business underwritten, the terms and conditions of the
underwriting and the premiums charged for taking on the risk.
Concentrations of risk are analyzed using various modeling
techniques and include, but are not limited to, wind, flood,
earthquake, terrorism and accident.

AIG has two major categories of insurance risks as follows:

General Insurance    risks covered include
    property, casualty, fidelity/surety, management liability and
    mortgage insurance. Risks in the general insurance segment are
    managed through aggregations and limitations of concentrations
    at multiple levels: policy, line of business, correlation and
    catastrophic risk events. 

Life Insurance & Retirement Services   
    risks include mortality and morbidity in the insurance-oriented
    products and insufficient cash flows to cover contract
    liabilities in the retirement savings-oriented products. Risks
    are managed through product design, sound medical underwriting,
    external traditional reinsurance programs and external
    catastrophe reinsurance programs. 

AIG is a major purchaser of reinsurance for its insurance
operations. The use of reinsurance facilitates insurance risk
management (retention, volatility, concentrations) and capital
planning locally (branch and subsidiary). AIG may purchase
reinsurance on a pooling basis. Pooling of AIG s
reinsurance risks enables AIG to purchase reinsurance more
efficiently at a consolidated level, manage global counterparty
risk and relationships and manage global catastrophe risks, both
for the General Insurance and Life Insurance &
Retirement Services businesses.

General Insurance  

In General Insurance, underwriting risks are managed through the
application approval process, exposure limitations as well as
through exclusions, coverage limits and reinsurance. The risks
covered by AIG are managed through limits on delegated
underwriting authority, the use of sound underwriting practices,
pricing procedures and the use of actuarial analysis as part of
the determination of overall adequacy of provisions for
insurance contract liabilities.

A primary goal of AIG in managing its General Insurance
operations is to achieve an underwriting profit. To achieve this
goal, AIG must be disciplined in its risk selection, and
premiums must be adequate and terms and conditions appropriate
to cover the risk accepted.

Catastrophe Exposures

The nature of AIG s business exposes it to various
catastrophic events in which multiple losses across multiple
lines of business can occur in any calendar year. In order to
control this exposure, AIG uses a combination of techniques,
including setting aggregate limits in key business units,
monitoring and modeling accumulated exposures, and purchasing
catastrophe reinsurance to supplement its other reinsurance
protections.

Natural disasters such as hurricanes, earthquakes and other
catastrophes have the potential to adversely affect AIG s
operating results. Other risks, such as an outbreak of a
pandemic disease, such as the Avian Influenza A Virus (H5N1),
could

118         AIG
2007 Form  10-K 

Table of Contents   

American International Group, Inc. and Subsidiaries

adversely affect AIG s business and operating results to an
extent that may be only partially offset by reinsurance programs.

AIG evaluates catastrophic events and assesses the probability
of occurrence and magnitude of catastrophic events through the
use of industry recognized models, among other techniques. AIG
updates these models by periodically monitoring the exposure to
risks of AIG s worldwide General Insurance operations and
adjusting such models accordingly. Following is an overview of
modeled losses associated with the more significant natural
perils, which includes exposures for DBG, Personal Lines,
Foreign General (other than Ascot), and The Hartford Steam
Boiler Inspection and Insurance Company. Transatlantic and Ascot
utilize a different model, and their combined results are
presented separately below. Significant life insurance and
accident and health (A&H) exposures have been added to these
results as well. The modeled results assume that all reinsurers
fulfill their obligations to AIG in accordance with their terms.

It is important to recognize that there is no standard
methodology to project the possible losses from total property
and workers compensation exposures. Further, there are no
industry standard assumptions to be utilized in projecting these
losses. The use of different methodologies and assumptions could
materially change the projected losses. Therefore, these modeled
losses may not be comparable to estimates made by other
companies.

These estimates are inherently uncertain and may not reflect
AIG s maximum exposures to these events. It is highly
likely that AIG s losses will vary, perhaps significantly,
from these estimates.

AIG has revised the catastrophe exposure disclosures presented
below from those included in the 2006 Annual Report on
Form  10-K  to
reflect more recent data, as well as reinsurance programs in
place as of January 31, 2008. The modeled results provided
in the table below were based on the aggregate exceedence
probability (AEP) losses which represent total property,
workers compensation, life insurance, and A&H losses that
may occur in any single year from one or more natural events.
The life insurance and A&H data include exposures for United
States, Japan, and Taiwan earthquakes. These represent the
largest share of life insurance and A&H exposures to
earthquake. A&H losses were modeled using December 2006
data, and life insurance losses were modeled using March 2006
data. Modeled life insurance results using more recent data will
be available by May 2008. However, management does not believe
that changes in the life insurance and A&H exposures will
materially increase AIG s overall exposures. The updated
property exposures were generally modeled with exposure data as
of June 2007. Lexington commercial lines exposure, which
represents the largest share of the modeled losses, was based on
data as of October 2007. All reinsurance program structures,
including both domestic and international structures, have also
been updated. The values provided are based on
 100-year  return period
losses, which have a one percent likelihood of being exceeded in
any single year. Thus, the model projects that there is a one
percent probability that AIG could incur in any year losses in
excess of the modeled amounts for these perils. Losses include
loss adjustment expenses and the net values include
reinstatement premiums.

*   
     
     Includes hurricanes, typhoons and other wind-related
    events.  

Gross earthquake and tropical cyclone modeled losses increased
$1.9 billion and $1.0 billion, respectively, while net
losses increased $923 million and $234 million,
respectively. The earthquake probable maximum loss for 2007 now
includes AIG s life insurance and A&H exposures that
were previously not included. These changes also reflect overall
increased exposure, changes in the Lexington quota share
program, the inclusion of loss adjustment expenses, and changes
in corporate catastrophe structure.

In addition to the return period loss, AIG evaluates potential
single event earthquake and hurricane losses that may be
incurred. The single events utilized are a subset of potential
events identified and utilized by Lloyd s  (as described
in Lloyd s Realistic Disaster Scenarios, Scenario
Specifications, April 2006)  and referred to as Realistic
Disaster Scenarios (RDSs). The purpose of this analysis is to
utilize these RDSs to provide a reference frame and place into
context the model results. However, it is important to note that
the specific events used for this analysis do not necessarily
represent the worst case loss that AIG could incur from this
type of an event in these regions. The losses associated with
the RDSs are included in the table below.

Single event modeled property and
workers compensation losses to AIG s worldwide portfolio of
risk for key geographic areas are set forth below. Gross values
represent AIG s liability after the application of policy
limits and deductibles, and net values represent losses after
reinsurance is applied and include reinsurance reinstatement
premiums. Both gross and net losses include loss adjustment
expenses.  

AIG 2007
Form  10-K          
119 

Table of Contents   

American International Group, Inc. and Subsidiaries

Management s Discussion and Analysis of 

Financial Condition and Results of
Operations    Continued  

AIG also monitors key international property risks utilizing
modeled statistical return period losses. Based on these
simulations, the
 100-year  return period
loss for Japanese Earthquake is $510 million gross, and
$170 million net, the
 100-year  return period
loss for European Windstorm is $448 million gross, and
$154 million net, and the
 100-year  return period
loss for Japanese Typhoon is $340 million gross, and
$212 million net.

The losses provided above do not include Transatlantic and
Ascot. The combined earthquake and tropical cyclone
 100-year  return period
modeled losses for Ascot and Transatlantic together are
estimated to be $1.0 billion, on a gross basis,
$749 million, net of reinsurance.

ACTUAL RESULTS IN ANY PERIOD ARE LIKELY TO
VARY, PERHAPS MATERIALLY, FROM THE MODELED SCENARIOS, AND THE
OCCURRENCE OF ONE OR MORE SEVERE EVENTS COULD HAVE A MATERIAL
ADVERSE EFFECT ON AIG S FINANCIAL CONDITION, RESULTS OF
OPERATIONS AND LIQUIDITY.

Measures Implemented to Control
Hurricane and Earthquake Catastrophic Risk  

Catastrophic risk from the earthquake and hurricane perils is
proactively managed through reinsurance programs, and aggregate
accumulation monitoring. Catastrophe reinsurance is purchased by
AIG from financially sound reinsurers. Recoveries under this
program, along with other non-catastrophic reinsurance
protections, are reflected in the net values provided in the
tables above. In addition to catastrophic reinsurance programs,
hurricane and earthquake exposures are controlled by
periodically monitoring aggregate exposures. The aggregate
exposures are calculated by compiling total liability within AIG
defined hurricane and earthquake catastrophe risk zones and
therefore represent the maximum that could be lost in any
individual zone. These aggregate accumulations are tracked over
time in order to monitor both long- and short-term trends.
AIG s major property writers, Lexington and AIG Private
Client Group, have also implemented catastrophe-related
underwriting procedures and manage their books at an account
level. Lexington individually models most accounts prior to
binding in order to specifically quantify catastrophic risk for
each account.

Terrorism  

Exposure to loss from terrorist attack is controlled by limiting
the aggregate accumulation of workers compensation and property
insurance that is underwritten within defined target locations.
Modeling is used to provide projections of probable maximum loss
by target location based upon the actual exposures of AIG
policyholders.

Terrorism risk is monitored to manage AIG s exposure. AIG
shares its exposures to terrorism risks under the Terrorism Risk
Insurance Act, which was recently extended through
December 31, 2014 by the Terrorism Risk Insurance Program
Reauthorization Act of 2007 (TRIA). During 2007, AIG s
deductible under TRIA was approximately $4.0 billion, with
a 15 percent share of certified terrorism losses in excess
of the deductible. As of January 1, 2008, the deductible
increased to $4.2 billion, with a 15 percent share of
certified terrorism losses in excess of the deductible. AIG
actively monitors and controls its aggregate accumulated
exposure within the parameters of the protection provided by the
TRIA.

Life Insurance & Retirement
Services  

In Life Insurance & Retirement Services, the primary
risks are the following:

underwriting, which represents the exposure to loss resulting
    from the actual policy experience emerging adversely in
    comparison to the assumptions made in the product pricing
    associated with mortality, morbidity, termination and expenses;
    and 

investment risk which represents the exposure to loss resulting
    from the cash flows from the invested assets being less than the
    cash flows required to meet the obligations of the expected
    policy and contract liabilities and the necessary return on
    investments. 

AIG businesses manage these risks through exposure limitations
and the active management of the asset-liability relationship in
their operations. The emergence of significant adverse
experience would require an adjustment to DAC and benefit
reserves that could have a material adverse effect on AIG s
consolidated results of operations for a particular period.

AIG s Foreign Life Insurance & Retirement Services
companies generally limit their maximum underwriting exposure on
life insurance of a single life to approximately
$1.7 million of coverage. AIG s Domestic Life
Insurance & Retirement Services companies limit their
maximum underwriting exposure on life insurance of a single life
to $15 million of coverage in certain circumstances by
using yearly renewable term reinsurance. In Life
Insurance & Retirement Services, the reinsurance
programs provide risk mitigation per policy, per individual life
for life and group covers and for catastrophic risk events.

Pandemic Influenza

The potential for a pandemic influenza outbreak has received
much recent attention. While outbreaks of the Avian Flu continue
to occur among poultry or wild birds in a number of countries in
Asia, Europe, including the U.K., and Africa, transmission to
humans has been rare to date. If the virus mutates to a form
that can be transmitted from human to human, it has the
potential to spread rapidly worldwide. If such an outbreak were
to take place, early quarantine and vaccination could be
critical to containment.

The contagion and mortality rates of any mutated H5N1 virus that
can be transmitted from human to human are highly speculative.
AIG continues to monitor the developing facts. A significant
global outbreak could have a material adverse effect on Life
Insurance & Retirement Services operating results and
liquidity from increased mortality and morbidity rates. AIG
continues to analyze its exposure to this serious threat and has
engaged an external risk management firm to model loss scenarios
associated with an outbreak of Avian Flu. For a  mild 
scenario, AIG estimates its after-tax net losses under its life
insurance policies due to Avian Flu at approximately
2 percent of consolidated shareholders  equity as of
December 31, 2007. This estimate was calculated over a
 3-year  period, although
the

120         AIG
2007 Form  10-K 

Table of Contents   

American International Group, Inc. and Subsidiaries

majority of the losses would be incurred in the first year. The
modeled losses calculated were based on 2006 policy data
representing approximately 92 percent of AIG s
individual life, group life and credit life books of business,
net of reinsurance. This estimate does not include claims that
could be made under other policies, such as business
interruption or general liability policies, and does not reflect
estimates for losses resulting from disruption of AIG s own
business operations or asset losses that may arise out of such a
pandemic. The model used to generate this estimate has only
recently been developed. The reasonableness of the model and its
underlying assumptions cannot readily be verified by reference
to comparable historical events. As a result, AIG s actual
losses from a pandemic influenza outbreak are likely to vary
significantly from those predicted by the model.

Financial Services 

AIG s Financial Services subsidiaries engage in diversified
activities including aircraft and equipment leasing, capital
markets, consumer finance and insurance premium finance.

Capital Markets  

The Capital Markets operations of AIG are conducted primarily
through AIGFP, which engages as principal in standard and
customized interest rate, currency, equity, commodity, energy
and credit products with top-tier corporations, financial
institutions, governments, agencies, institutional investors and
high-net-worth individuals throughout the world.

The senior management of AIG defines the policies and
establishes general operating parameters for Capital Markets
operations. AIG s senior management has established various
oversight committees to monitor on an ongoing basis the various
financial market, operational and credit risk attendant to the
Capital Markets operations. The senior management of AIGFP
reports the results of its operations to and reviews future
strategies with AIG s senior management.

AIGFP actively manages its exposures to limit potential economic
losses, while maximizing the rewards afforded by these business
opportunities even though some products or derivatives may
result in operating income volatility. In doing so, AIGFP must
continually manage a variety of exposures including credit,
market, liquidity, operational and legal risks.

Derivative Transactions  

A counterparty may default on any obligation to AIG, including a
derivative contract. Credit risk is a consequence of extending
credit and/or carrying trading and investment positions. Credit
risk exists for a derivative contract when that contract has a
positive fair value to AIG. The maximum potential exposure will
increase or decrease during the life of the derivative
commitments as a function of maturity and market conditions. To
help manage this risk, AIGFP s credit department operates
within the guidelines set by the CRC. Transactions which fall
outside these pre-established guidelines require the specific
approval of the CRC. It is also AIG s policy to establish
reserves for potential credit impairment when necessary.

In addition, AIGFP utilizes various credit enhancements,
including letters of credit, guarantees, collateral, credit
triggers, credit derivatives and margin agreements to reduce the
credit risk relating to its outstanding financial derivative
transactions. AIGFP requires credit enhancements in connection
with specific transactions based on, among other things, the
creditworthiness of the counterparties, and the
transaction s size and maturity. Furthermore, AIGFP
generally seeks to enter into agreements that have the benefit
of set-off and close-out netting provisions. These provisions
provide that, in the case of an early termination of a
transaction, AIGFP can setoff its receivables from a
counterparty against its payables to the same counterparty
arising out of all covered transactions. As a result, where a
legally enforceable netting agreement exists, the fair value of
the transaction with the counterparty represents the net sum of
estimated positive fair values. The fair value of AIGFP s
interest rate, currency, commodity and equity swaps, options,
swaptions, and forward commitments, futures, and forward
contracts approximated $17.13 billion at December 31,
2007 and $19.61 billion at December 31, 2006. Where
applicable, these amounts have been determined in accordance
with the respective master netting agreements.

AIGFP evaluates the counterparty credit quality by reference to
ratings from rating agencies or, where such ratings are not
available, by internal analysis consistent with the risk rating
policies of the CRC. In addition, AIGFP s credit approval
process involves pre-set counterparty and country credit
exposure limits and, for particularly credit-intensive
transactions, requires approval from the CRC. AIG estimates that
the average credit rating of Capital Markets derivatives
counterparties, measured by reference to the fair value of its
derivative portfolio as a whole, is equivalent to the AA rating
category.

At December 31, 2007 and 2006, the
fair value of Capital Markets derivatives portfolios by
counterparty credit rating was as follows:  

Credit Derivatives  

AIGFP enters into credit derivative transactions in the ordinary
course of its business. The majority of AIGFP s credit
derivatives require AIGFP to provide credit protection on a
designated portfolio of loans or debt securities. AIGFP provides
such credit protection on a  second loss  basis, under
which AIGFP s payment obligations arise only after credit
losses in the designated portfolio exceed a specified threshold
amount or level of  first losses.  The threshold
amount of credit losses that must be realized before AIGFP has
any payment obligation is negotiated

AIG 2007
Form  10-K          
121 

Table of Contents   

American International Group, Inc. and Subsidiaries

Management s Discussion and Analysis of 

Financial Condition and Results of
Operations    Continued  

by AIGFP for each transaction to provide that the likelihood of
any payment obligation by AIGFP under each transaction is
remote, even in severe recessionary market scenarios. The
underwriting process for these derivatives included assumptions
of severely stressed recessionary market scenarios to minimize
the likelihood of realized losses under these obligations.

In certain cases, the credit risk associated with a designated
portfolio is tranched into different layers of risk, which are
then analyzed and rated by the credit rating agencies.
Typically, there will be an equity layer covering the first
credit losses in respect of the portfolio up to a specified
percentage of the total portfolio, and then successive layers
ranging from generally a BBB-rated layer to one or more
AAA-rated layers. In transactions that are rated with respect to
the risk layer or tranche that is immediately junior to the
threshold level above which AIGFP s payment obligation
would generally arise, a significant majority are rated AAA by
the rating agencies. In transactions that are not rated, AIGFP
applies the same risk criteria for setting the threshold level
for its payment obligations. Therefore, the risk layer assumed
by AIGFP with respect to the designated portfolio in these
transactions is often called the  super senior  risk
layer, defined as the layer of credit risk senior to a risk
layer that has been rated AAA by the credit rating agencies, or
if the transaction is not rated, equivalent thereto.

At December 31, 2007 the notional
amounts and unrealized market valuation loss of the super senior
credit default swap portfolio by asset classes were as
follows:  

(a)   
     
     Predominantly represent transactions written to facilitate
    regulatory capital relief.  

(b)   
     
     Approximately $61.4 billion in notional amount of the
    multi-sector CDO pools include some exposure to
    U.S. subprime mortgages.  

Approximately $379 billion (consisting of the corporate
loans and prime residential mortgages) of the $527 billion
in notional exposure of AIGFP s super senior credit default
swap portfolio as of December 31, 2007 represents
derivatives written for financial institutions, principally in
Europe, for the purpose of providing them with regulatory
capital relief rather than risk mitigation. In exchange for a
minimum guaranteed fee, the counterparties receive credit
protection in respect of diversified loan portfolios they own,
thus improving their regulatory capital position. These
derivatives are generally expected to terminate at no additional
cost to the counterparty upon the counterparty s adoption
of models compliant with the Basel II Accord. AIG expects
that the majority of these transactions will be terminated
within the next 12 to 18 months by AIGFP s
counterparties as they implement models compliant with the new
Basel II Accord. As of February 26, 2008, $54 billion
in notional exposures have either been terminated or are in the
process of being terminated. AIGFP was not required to make any
payments as part of these terminations and in certain cases was
paid a fee upon termination. In light of this experience to date
and after other comprehensive analyses, AIG did not recognize an
unrealized market valuation adjustment for this regulatory
capital relief portfolio for the year ended December 31,
2007. AIG will continue to assess the valuation of this
portfolio and monitor developments in the marketplace. There can
be no assurance that AIG will not recognize unrealized market
valuation losses from this portfolio in future periods. In
addition to writing credit protection on the super senior risk
layer on designated portfolios of loans or debt securities,
AIGFP also wrote protection on tranches below the super senior
risk layer. At December 31, 2007 the notional amount of the
credit default swaps in the regulatory capital relief portfolio
written on tranches below the super senior risk layer was
$5.8 billion, with an estimated fair value of
$(25) million.

AIGFP has also written credit protection on the super senior
risk layer of diversified portfolios of investment grade
corporate debt, collateralized loan obligations (CLOs) and
multi-sector CDOs. AIGFP is at risk only on the super senior
portion related to a diversified portfolio referenced to loans
or debt securities. The super senior risk portion is the last
tranche to suffer losses after significant subordination. Credit
losses would have to erode all tranches junior to the super
senior tranche before AIGFP would suffer any realized losses.
The subordination level required for each transaction is
determined based on internal modeling and analysis of the pool
of underlying assets and is not dependent on ratings determined
by the rating agencies. While the credit default swaps written
on corporate debt obligations are cash settled, the majority of
the credit default swaps written on CDOs and CLOs require
physical settlement. Under a physical settlement arrangement,
AIGFP would be required to purchase the referenced super senior
security at par in the event of a non-payment on that security.

Certain of these credit derivatives are subject to collateral
posting provisions. These provisions differ among counterparties
and asset classes. In the case of most of the multi-sector CDO
transactions, the amount of collateral required is determined
based on the change in value of the underlying cash security
that represents the super senior risk layer subject to credit
protection, and not the change in value of the super senior
credit derivative.

AIGFP is indirectly exposed to U.S. residential mortgage
subprime collateral in the CDO portfolios, the majority of which
is from 2004 and 2005 vintages. However, certain of the CDOs on
which AIGFP provided credit protection permit the collateral
manager to substitute collateral during the reinvestment period,
subject to certain restrictions. As a result, in certain
transactions, U.S. residential mortgage subprime collateral of
2006 and 2007 vintages has been added to the collateral pools.
At December 31, 2007, U.S. residential mortgage subprime
collateral of 2006 and 2007 vintages comprised approximately
4.9 percent of the total collateral pools underlying the
entire portfolio of CDOs with credit protection.

AIGFP has written  2a-7 
Puts in connection with certain multi-sector CDOs that allow the
holders of the securities to treat the securities as eligible
short-term 2a-7 investments under the

122         AIG
2007 Form  10-K 

Table of Contents   

American International Group, Inc. and Subsidiaries

Investment Company Act of 1940. Holders of securities are
permitted, in certain circumstances, to tender their securities
to the issuers at par. If an issuer s remarketing agent is
unable to resell the securities so tendered, AIGFP must purchase
the securities at par as long as the security has not
experienced a default. During 2007, AIGFP repurchased securities
with a principal amount of approximately $754 million
pursuant to these obligations. In certain transactions, AIGFP
has contracted with third parties to provide liquidity for the
securities if they are put to AIGFP for up to a three-year
period. Such liquidity facilities totaled approximately
$3 billion at December 31, 2007. As of
February 26, 2008, AIGFP has not utilized these liquidity
facilities. At December 31, 2007, AIGFP had approximately
$6.5 billion of notional exposure on 2a-7 Puts, included as
part of the multi-sector CDO portfolio discussed herein.

As of January 31, 2008, a significant majority of
AIGFP s super senior exposures continued to have tranches
below AIGFP s attachment point that have been explicitly
rated AAA or, in AIGFP s judgment, would have been rated
AAA had they been rated. AIGFP s portfolio of credit
default swaps undergoes regular monitoring, modeling and
analysis and contains protection through collateral
subordination.

AIGFP accounts for its credit default swaps in accordance with
FAS 133  Accounting For Derivative Instruments and
Hedging Activities  and Emerging Issues Task Force 02-3,
 Issues Involved in Accounting for Derivative Contracts
Held for Trading Purposes and Contracts Involved in Energy
Trading and Risk Management Activities 
(EITF  02-3).  In
accordance with
EITF  02-3,  AIGFP
does not recognize income in earnings at the inception of each
transaction because the inputs to value these instruments are
not derivable from observable market data.

The valuation of the super senior credit derivatives has become
increasingly challenging given the limitation on the
availability of market observable information due to the lack of
trading and price transparency in the structured finance market,
particularly in the fourth quarter of 2007. These market
conditions have increased the reliance on management estimates
and judgments in arriving at an estimate of fair value for
financial reporting purposes. Further, disparities in the
valuation methodologies employed by market participants and the
varying judgments reached by such participants when assessing
volatile markets has increased the likelihood that the various
parties to these instruments may arrive at significantly
different estimates as to their fair values.

AIGFP s valuation methodologies for the super senior credit
default swap portfolio have evolved in response to the
deteriorating market conditions and the lack of sufficient
market observable information. AIG has sought to calibrate the
model to market information and to review the assumptions of the
model on a regular basis.

AIGFP employs a modified version of the BET model to value its
super senior credit default swap portfolio, including the
 2a-7  Puts. The BET
model utilizes default probabilities derived from credit spreads
implied from market prices for the individual securities
included in the underlying collateral pools securing the CDOs.
AIGFP obtained prices on these securities from the CDO
collateral managers.

The BET model also utilizes diversity scores, weighted average
lives, recovery rates and discount rates. The determination of
some of these inputs require the use of judgment and estimates,
particularly in the absence of market observable data. AIGFP
also employed a Monte Carlo simulation to assist in quantifying
the effect on valuation of the CDO of the unique features of the
CDO s structure such as triggers that divert cash flows to
the most senior level of the capital structure.

The credit default swaps written by AIGFP cover only the failure
of payment on the super senior CDO security. AIGFP does not own
the securities in the CDO collateral pool. The credit spreads
implied from the market prices of the securities in the CDO
collateral pool incorporate the risk of default (credit risk),
the market s price for liquidity risk and in distressed
markets, the risk aversion costs. Spreads on credit derivatives
tend to be narrower because, unlike in the case of investing in
a bond, there is no need to fund the position (except when an
actual credit event occurs). In times of illiquidity, the
difference between spreads on cash securities and derivative
instruments (the  negative basis ) may be even wider
for high quality assets. AIGFP was unable to reliably verify
this negative basis due to the accelerating severe dislocation,
illiquidity and lack of trading in the asset backed securities
market during the fourth quarter of 2007 and early 2008. The
valuations produced by the BET model therefore represent the
valuations of the underlying super senior CDO cash securities
with no recognition of the effect of the basis differential on
that valuation.

AIGFP also considered the valuation of the super senior CDO
securities provided by third parties, including counterparties
to these transactions, and made adjustments as necessary.

As described above, AIGFP uses numerous assumptions in
determining its best estimate of the fair value of the super
senior credit default swap portfolio. The most significant
assumption utilized in developing the estimate is the pricing of
the securities within the CDO collateral pools. If the actual
pricing of the securities within the collateral pools differs
from the pricing used in estimating the fair value of the super
senior credit default swap portfolio, there is potential for
significant variation in the fair value estimate. A decrease by
five points (for example, from 87 cents per dollar to 82 cents
per dollar) in the aggregate price of the securities would cause
an additional unrealized market valuation loss of approximately
$3.7 billion, while an increase in the aggregate price of the
securities by five points (for example, from 90 cents per dollar
to 95 cents per dollar) would reduce the unrealized market
valuation loss by approximately $3 billion. The effect on the
unrealized market valuation loss is not proportional to the
change in the aggregate price of the securities.

In the case of credit default swaps written on investment grade
corporate debt and CLOs, AIGFP estimated the value of its
obligations by reference to the relevant market indices or third
party quotes on the underlying super senior tranches where
available.

AIGFP monitors the underlying portfolios to determine whether
the credit loss experience for any particular portfolio has
caused

AIG 2007
Form  10-K          
123 

Table of Contents   

American International Group, Inc. and Subsidiaries

Management s Discussion and Analysis of 

Financial Condition and Results of
Operations    Continued  

the likelihood of AIGFP having a payment obligation under the
transaction to be greater than super senior risk.

As of February 26, 2008, AIGFP had received collateral
calls from counterparties in respect of certain super senior
credit default swaps (including those entered into by
counterparties for regulatory capital relief purposes and those
in respect of corporate debt/CLOs). AIG is aware that valuation
estimates made by certain of the counterparties with respect to
certain super senior credit default swaps or the underlying
reference CDO securities, for purposes of determining the amount
of collateral required to be posted by AIGFP in connection with
such instruments, differ significantly from AIGFP s
estimates. AIGFP has been able to successfully resolve some of
the differences, including in certain cases entering into
compromise collateral arrangements, some of which are for
specified periods of time. AIGFP is also in discussions with
other counterparties to resolve such valuation differences. As
of February 26, 2008, AIGFP had posted collateral (or had
received collateral, where offsetting exposures on other
transactions resulted in the counterparty posting to AIGFP)
based on exposures, calculated in respect of super senior
default swaps, in an aggregate amount of approximately
$5.3 billion. Valuation estimates made by counterparties
for collateral purposes were considered in the determination of
the fair value estimates of AIGFP s super senior credit
default swap portfolio.

Both AIG s ERM department and AIGFP have conducted risk
analyses of the super senior multi-sector CDO credit default
swap portfolio of AIGFP. There is currently no probable and
reasonably estimable realized loss in this portfolio at
December 31, 2007. AIG s analyses have been conducted
to assess the risk of incurring net realized losses over the
remaining life of the portfolio. In addition to analyses of each
individual risk in the portfolio, AIG conducted certain
ratings-based stress tests, which centered around scenarios of
further stress on the portfolio resulting from downgrades by the
rating agencies from current levels on the underlying collateral
in the CDO structures supported by AIGFP s credit default
swaps. These rating actions would be prompted by factors such as
the worsening beyond current estimates of delinquency and
residential housing price deterioration in the underlying assets
in the collateral securities of the CDO structures. The results
of these stress tests indicated possible realized losses on a
static basis, since the assumptions of losses in these stress
tests assumed immediate realization of loss. Actual realized
losses would only be experienced over time given the timing of
losses incurred in the underlying portfolios and the timing of
breaches of the subordination afforded to AIGFP through the
structures of the CDO. No benefit was taken in these stress
tests for cash flow diversion features, recoveries upon default
or other risk mitigant benefits. Based on these analyses and
stress tests, AIG believes that any losses realized over time by
AIGFP as a result of meeting its obligations under these
derivatives will not be material to AIG s consolidated
financial condition, although it is possible that such realized
losses could be material to AIG s consolidated results of
operations for an individual reporting period.

Capital Markets Trading VaR  

AIGFP attempts to minimize risk in benchmark interest rates,
equities, commodities and foreign exchange. Market exposures in
option implied volatilities, correlations and basis risks are
also minimized over time but those are the main types of market
risks that AIGFP manages.

AIGFP s minimal reliance on market risk driven revenue is
reflected in its VaR. AIGFP s VaR calculation is based on
the interest rate, equity, commodity and foreign exchange risk
arising from its portfolio. Credit-related factors, such as
credit spreads or credit default, are not included in
AIGFP s VaR calculation. Because the market risk with
respect to securities available for sale, at market, is
substantially hedged, segregation of the financial instruments
into trading and other than trading was not deemed necessary.
AIGFP operates under established market risk limits based upon
this VaR calculation. In addition, AIGFP backtests its VaR.

In the calculation of VaR for AIGFP, AIG uses the historical
simulation methodology based on estimated changes to the value
of all transactions under explicit changes in market rates and
prices within a specific historical time period. AIGFP attempts
to secure reliable and independent current market prices, such
as published exchange prices, external subscription services
such as Bloomberg or Reuters, or third-party or broker quotes.
When such prices are not available, AIGFP uses an internal
methodology which includes extrapolation from observable and
verifiable prices nearest to the dates of the transactions.
Historically, actual results have not deviated from these models
in any material respect.

AIGFP reports its VaR level using a 95 percent confidence
interval and a one-day holding period, facilitating risk
comparison with AIGFP s trading peers and reflecting the
fact that market risks can be actively assumed and offset in
AIGFP s trading portfolio.

124         AIG
2007 Form  10-K 

Table of Contents   

American International Group, Inc. and Subsidiaries

The following table presents the
year-end, average, high, and low VaRs* on a diversified basis
and of each component of market risk for Capital Markets
operations for the years 2007 and 2006. The diversified VaR is
usually smaller than the sum of its components due to
correlation effects.  

*   
     
     The VaR calculation has been changed from a 3-year time
    series to a 5-year time series. The December 31, 2006 VaR
    reflects this change.  

Aircraft Leasing  

AIG s Aircraft Leasing operations represent the operations
of ILFC, which generates its revenues primarily from leasing new
and used commercial jet aircraft to foreign and domestic
airlines and companies associated with the airline industry.
Risks inherent in this business, and which are managed at the
business unit level, include the following:

the risk that there will be no market for the aircraft acquired; 

the risk that aircraft cannot be placed with lessees; 

the risk of nonperformance by lessees; and 

the risk that aircraft and related assets cannot be disposed of
    at the time and in a manner desired. 

The airline industry is sensitive to changes in economic
conditions and is cyclical and highly competitive. Airlines and
related companies may be affected by political or economic
instability, terrorist activities, changes in national policy,
competitive pressures on certain air carriers, fuel prices and
shortages, labor stoppages, insurance costs, recessions, world
health issues and other political or economic events adversely
affecting world or regional trading markets.

ILFC s revenues and operating income may be adversely
affected by the volatile competitive environment in which its
customers operate. ILFC is exposed to operating loss and
liquidity strain through nonperformance of aircraft lessees,
through owning aircraft which it is unable to sell or re-lease
at acceptable rates at lease expiration and, in part, through
committing to purchase aircraft which it is unable to lease.

ILFC manages the risk of nonperformance by its lessees with
security deposit requirements, repossession rights, overhaul
requirements and close monitoring of industry conditions through
its marketing force. Approximately 90 percent of ILFC s
fleet is leased to non-U.S. carriers, and the fleet, comprised
of the most efficient aircraft in the airline industry,
continues to be in high demand from such carriers.

Management formally reviews regularly, and no less frequently
than quarterly, issues affecting ILFC s fleet, including
events and circumstances that may cause impairment of aircraft
values. Management evaluates aircraft in the fleet as necessary
based on these events and circumstances in accordance with
Statement of Financial Accounting Standards No. 144,
 Accounting for the Impairment or Disposal of Long-Lived
Assets  (FAS 144). ILFC has not recognized any impairment
related to its fleet in 2007, 2006 or 2005. ILFC has been able
to re-lease the aircraft without diminution in lease rates that
would result in an impairment under FAS 144.

Consumer Finance  

AIG s Consumer Finance operations provide a wide variety of
consumer finance products, including real estate and other
consumer loans, credit card loans, retail sales finance and
credit-related insurance to customers both domestically and
overseas, particularly in emerging markets. Consumer Finance
operations include AGF as well as AIGCFG. AGF provides a wide
variety of consumer finance products, including real estate
loans, non-real estate loans, retail sales finance and
credit-related insurance to customers in the United States, the
U.K., Puerto Rico and the U.S. Virgin Islands. AIGCFG,
through its subsidiaries, is engaged in developing a
multi-product consumer finance business with an emphasis on
emerging markets.

Many of AGF s borrowers are non-prime or subprime. The real
estate loans are comprised principally of first-lien mortgages
on residential real estate generally having a maximum term of
360 months, and are considered non-conforming. The real
estate loans may be closed-end accounts or open-end home equity
lines of credit and are principally fixed rate products. AGF
does not offer mortgage products with borrower payment options
that allow for negative amortization of the principal balance.
The secured non-real estate loans are secured by consumer goods,
automobiles or other personal property. Both secured and
unsecured non-real estate loans and retail sales finance
receivables generally have a maximum term of 60 months.

Current economic conditions, such as interest rate and
employment levels, can have a direct effect on the
borrowers  ability to repay these loans. AGF manages the
credit risk inherent in its portfolio by using credit scoring
models at the time of credit applications, established
underwriting criteria, and, in certain cases, individual loan
reviews. AGF monitors the quality of the finance receivables
portfolio and determines the appropriate level of the allowance
for losses through its Credit Strategy and Policy Committee.
This Committee bases its conclusions on quantitative analyses,
qualitative factors, current economic conditions and trends, and
each Committee member s experience in the consumer finance
industry.

AIG 2007
Form  10-K          
125 

Table of Contents   

American International Group, Inc. and Subsidiaries

Management s Discussion and Analysis of 

Financial Condition and Results of
Operations    Continued  

Through 2007, the overall credit quality of AGF s finance
receivables portfolio deteriorated modestly primarily due to
negative economic fundamentals, a higher proportion of non-real
estate loans and retail sales finance loans and the aging of the
real estate loan portfolio. As of December 31, 2007, the
60-day delinquency rate for the entire portfolio increased by 78
basis points to 2.84 percent compared to 2006, while the
60-day delinquency rate for the real estate loans increased by
88 basis points to 2.64 percent. In 2007, AGF s net
charge-off rate increased to 1.16 percent compared to 0.95
percent in 2006, which reflected $6 million of
non-recurring recoveries. Further weakening in the U.S. housing
market or the overall U.S. economy may adversely affect the
credit quality of AGF s finance receivables.

AIGCFG monitors the quality of its finance receivable portfolio
and determines the appropriate level of the allowance for losses
through several internal committees. These committees base their
conclusions on quantitative analysis, qualitative factors,
current economic conditions and trends, political and regulatory
implications, competition and the judgment of the
committees  members.

AIG s Consumer Finance operations are exposed to credit
risk and risk of loss resulting from adverse fluctuations in
interest rates and payment defaults. Credit loss exposure is
managed through a combination of underwriting controls, mix of
finance receivables, collateral and collection efficiency. Large
product programs are subject to CRC approval.

Over half of the finance receivables are real estate loans which
are collateralized by the related properties. With respect to
credit losses, the allowance for losses is maintained at a level
considered adequate to absorb anticipated credit losses existing
in that portfolio as of the balance sheet date.

Asset Management 

AIG s Asset Management operations are exposed to various
forms of credit, market and operational risks. Asset Management
complies with AIG s corporate risk management guidelines
and framework and is subject to periodic reviews by the CRC. In
addition, transactions are referred to the Asset Management
investment committees for approval of investment decisions.

The majority of the credit and market risk exposures within
Asset Management results from the Spread-Based Investment
business and the investment activities of AIG Global Real Estate.

In the Spread-Based Investment businesses, GIC and MIP, the
primary risk is investment risk, which represents the exposure
to loss resulting from the cash flows from the invested assets
being less than the cash flows required to meet the obligations
of the liabilities and the necessary return on investments.
Credit risk is also a significant component of the investment
strategy for these businesses. Market risk is taken in the form
of duration and convexity risk. While AIG generally maintains a
matched asset-liability relationship, it may occasionally
determine that it is economically advantageous to be in an
unmatched duration position. The risks in the spread-based
businesses are managed through exposure limitations, active
management of the investment portfolios and close oversight of
the asset-liability relationship.

AIG Global Real Estate is exposed to the general conditions in
global real estate markets and the credit markets. Such exposure
can subject Asset Management to delays in real estate property
development and sales, additional carrying costs and in turn
affect operating results within the segment. These risks are
mitigated through the underwriting process, transaction and
contract terms and conditions and portfolio diversification by
type of project, sponsor, real estate market and country.
AIG s exposure to real estate investments is monitored on
an ongoing basis by the Asset Management Real Estate Investment
Committee.

Asset Management is also exposed to market risk with respect to
the warehoused investing activities of AIG Investments. During
the warehousing period, AIG bears the cost and risks associated
with carrying these investments and consolidates them on its
balance sheet and records the operating results until the
investments are transferred, sold or otherwise divested. Changes
in market conditions may negatively affect the fair value of
these warehoused investments. Market conditions may impede AIG
from launching new investment products for which these
warehoused assets are being held, which could result in AIG not
recovering its investment upon transfer or divestment. In the
event that AIG is unable to transfer or otherwise divest its
interest in the warehoused investment to third parties, AIG
could be required to hold these investments indefinitely.

Economic Capital 

Since mid-2005, AIG has been developing a firm-wide economic
capital model to improve decision making and to enhance
shareholder value. Economic Capital is the amount of capital the
organization, its segments, profit centers, products or
transactions require to cover potential, unexpected losses
within a confidence level consistent with the risk appetite and
risk tolerances specified by management. The Economic Capital
requirement can then be compared with the Economic Capital
resources available to AIG.

The Economic Capital requirement is driven by exposures to risks
and interrelationships among various types of risks. As a global
leader in insurance and financial services, AIG is exposed to
various risks including underwriting, financial and operational
risks. The Economic Capital initiative has modeled these risks
into five major categories: property & casualty
insurance risk, life insurance risk, market risk, credit risk
and operational risk. Within each risk category, there are
sub-risks that have been modeled in greater detail. The Economic
Capital initiative also analyzes the interrelationships among
various types of risk, aggregate exposure accumulation and
concentration, and includes diversification benefits within and
across risk categories and business segments.

A primary objective of the Economic Capital initiative is to
develop a comprehensive framework to discuss capital and
performance on a risk-adjusted basis internally with AIG
management and externally with the investment community, credit
providers, regulators and rating agencies. Economic Capital
analysis provides a framework to validate AIG s capital
adequacy, to measure more precisely capital efficiency at
various levels throughout the organization, to allocate capital
consistently among

126         AIG
2007 Form  10-K 

Table of Contents   

American International Group, Inc. and Subsidiaries

AIG s businesses, to quantify the specific areas of
diversification benefits and to assess relative economic value
added by a business, product or transaction to AIG as a whole.
The Economic Capital initiative will also provide necessary and
relevant analyses and inputs in developing a more efficient
capital structure. Other key areas of Economic Capital
applications include strategic decision-making for mergers,
acquisitions and divestitures, risk accumulation and
concentration, risk retention, reinsurance and hedging
strategies and product development and pricing.

During 2006, AIG developed a methodology framework that
incorporates financial services industry best practices,
maintains consistency with regulatory frameworks and reflects
AIG s distinct global business and management strategies.
By utilizing stochastic simulation techniques, where
appropriate, AIG enhanced existing models or developed new ones
through a collaborative effort among business executives,
actuaries, finance specialists and risk professionals. The
initial assessments provided useful insight into the overall
capital strength of AIG and its segments.

Throughout 2007, AIG s focus has been on a wide range of
business applications of the model together with the continued
enhancement of the granularity of the model. Key methodology
enhancements introduced during 2007 include capital fungibility
and diversification among legal entities, business units and
geographic regions, consistent economic scenarios in developed
and developing markets, and extensive catastrophic scenario
analysis and stress testing. Furthermore, AIG enhanced its
comprehensive set of risk governance structures to support the
model s inputs, assumptions and methodologies. Finally, AIG
has engaged a panel of independent experts to provide further
assurance to AIG s senior management, business segment
executives and external constituents as to the validity of the
model and its results for business segments and for AIG in the
aggregate.

Besides model enhancements and firm-wide capital strength
analysis, during 2007 AIG also incorporated its Economic Capital
model and analysis into a number of specific business issues and
in developing new business strategies. For example, economic
capital analysis is being incorporated into the assessment phase
for mergers, acquisitions and divestures, and in the development
of capital markets solutions. In the reinsurance area, economic
capital considerations are fundamental to the development of
optimal risk retention and reinsurance strategies and management
of credit exposures to reinsurance counterparties. In the Life
Insurance & Retirement Services segment, the Economic
Capital model has been used for product development, pricing and
hedging strategies for living benefits in the variable annuity
business. For life insurance products in Asian markets, enhanced
asset-liability management strategies have been formulated for
long duration liability structures and low interest rate
environments in certain markets using the technology developed
for AIG s Economic Capital model.

In 2008, AIG plans to extend the model s application by
building on the work performed in 2007 for a wider range of
businesses, segments, geographies and product lines. Commencing
in 2008, the economic value added for each of AIG s
business segments will be considered as an element, alongside
other existing measures, in the evaluation of senior management
performance. The capital planning and allocation process will
continue to be enhanced by incorporating the regulatory, rating
agency and economic capital requirements for business segments
as well as the assessment of the mobility of excess economic
capital.

Recent Accounting Standards  

Accounting Changes  

In September 2005, the American Institute of Certified Public
Accountants (AICPA) issued Statement of Position 05-1,
 Accounting by Insurance Enterprises for Deferred
Acquisition Costs in Connection with Modifications or Exchanges
of Insurance Contracts. 

In February 2006, the Financial Accounting Standards Board
(FASB) issued FAS 155,  Accounting for Certain
Hybrid Financial Instruments   an amendment of
FAS 140 and FAS 133. 

In July 2006, the FASB issued FASB Interpretation No. 48,
 Accounting for Uncertainty in Income Taxes   an
interpretation of FASB Statement No. 109. 

In July 2006, the FASB issued FASB Staff Position
(FSP) No.  13-2, 
 Accounting for a Change or Projected Change in the Timing
of Cash Flows Relating to Income Taxes Generated by a Leveraged
Lease Transaction. 

In September 2006, the FASB issued FAS No. 157,
 Fair Value Measurements. 

In September 2006, the FASB issued FAS 158,
 Employers  Accounting for Defined Benefit Pension and
Other Postretirement Plans   an amendment of FASB
Statements No. 87, 88, 106 and 132R. 

In February 2007, the FASB issued FAS No. 159,
 The Fair Value Option for Financial Assets and Financial
Liabilities. 

In June 2007, the AICPA issued Statement of Position
No.  07-1, 
 Clarification of the Scope of the Audit and Accounting
Guide  Audits of Investment Companies  and Accounting
by Parent Companies and Equity Method Investors for Investments
in Investment Companies.  (Indefinitely deferred by the
FASB)

In December 2007, the FASB issued FAS No. 141 (revised
2007),  Business Combinations. 

In December 2007, the FASB issued FAS No. 160,
 Noncontrolling Interests in Consolidated Financial
Statements, an amendment of ARB No. 51. 

For further discussion of these recent accounting standards and
their application to AIG, see Note 1(hh) to Consolidated
Financial Statements.

AIG 2007
Form  10-K          
127 

Table of Contents   

American International Group, Inc. and Subsidiaries

Item 7A.   
 Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk 

Included in Item 7. Management s Discussion and
Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations.

Item 8.   
 Financial Statements and Supplementary Data 

American International Group, Inc. and Subsidiaries Index to
Financial Statements and Schedules 

128         AIG
2007 Form  10-K 

Table of Contents   

American International Group, Inc. and Subsidiaries

Report of Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm 

To the Board of Directors and
Shareholders of American International Group, Inc.:  

In our opinion, the consolidated financial statements listed in
the accompanying index present fairly, in all material respects,
the financial position of American International Group, Inc. and
its subsidiaries (AIG) at December 31, 2007 and 2006,
and the results of their operations and their cash flows for
each of the three years in the period ended December 31,
2007 in conformity with accounting principles generally accepted
in the United States of America. In addition, in our opinion,
the financial statement schedules listed in the accompanying
index present fairly, in all material respects, the information
set forth therein when read in conjunction with the related
consolidated financial statements. Also in our opinion, AIG did
not maintain, in all material respects, effective internal
control over financial reporting as of December 31, 2007,
based on criteria established in  Internal Control  
Integrated Framework  issued by the Committee of Sponsoring
Organizations of the Treadway Commission (COSO) because a
material weakness in internal control over financial reporting
related to the AIGFP super senior credit default swap portfolio
valuation process and oversight thereof existed as of that date.
A material weakness is a deficiency, or a combination of
deficiencies, in internal control over financial reporting, such
that there is a reasonable possibility that a material
misstatement of the annual or interim financial statements will
not be prevented or detected on a timely basis. The material
weakness referred to above is described in Management s
Report on Internal Control Over Financial Reporting appearing
under Item 9A. We considered this material weakness in
determining the nature, timing, and extent of audit tests
applied in our audit of the 2007 consolidated financial
statements, and our opinion regarding the effectiveness of
AIG s internal control over financial reporting does not
affect our opinion on those consolidated financial statements.
AIG s management is responsible for these financial
statements and financial statement schedules, for maintaining
effective internal control over financial reporting and for its
assessment of the effectiveness of internal control over
financial reporting, included in management s report
referred to above. Our responsibility is to express opinions on
these financial statements, on the financial statement
schedules, and on AIG s internal control over financial
reporting based on our integrated audits. We conducted our
audits in accordance with the standards of the Public Company
Accounting Oversight Board (United States). Those standards
require that we plan and perform the audits to obtain reasonable
assurance about whether the financial statements are free of
material misstatement and whether effective internal control
over financial reporting was maintained in all material
respects. Our audits of the financial statements included
examining, on a test basis, evidence supporting the amounts and
disclosures in the financial statements, assessing the
accounting principles used and significant estimates made by
management, and evaluating the overall financial statement
presentation. Our audit of internal control over financial
reporting included obtaining an understanding of internal
control over financial reporting, assessing the risk that a
material weakness exists, and testing and evaluating the design
and operating effectiveness of internal control based on the
assessed risk. Our audits also included performing such other
procedures as we considered necessary in the circumstances. We
believe that our audits provide a reasonable basis for our
opinions.

As described in Note 1 to the consolidated financial
statements, as of January 1, 2007, AIG changed the manner
in which it accounts for internal replacements of certain
insurance and investment contracts, uncertainty in income taxes,
and changes or projected changes in the timing of cash flows
relating to income taxes generated by leveraged lease
transactions.

As described in Notes 1 and 17 to the consolidated
financial statements, AIG changed its accounting for certain
hybrid financial instruments, life settlement contracts and
share based compensation as of January 1, 2006, and certain
employee benefit plans as of December 31, 2006.

A company s internal control over financial reporting is a
process designed to provide reasonable assurance regarding the
reliability of financial reporting and the preparation of
financial statements for external purposes in accordance with
generally accepted accounting principles. A company s
internal control over financial reporting includes those
policies and procedures that (i) pertain to the maintenance
of records that, in reasonable detail, accurately and fairly
reflect the transactions and dispositions of the assets of the
company; (ii) provide reasonable assurance that
transactions are recorded as necessary to permit preparation of
financial statements in accordance with generally accepted
accounting principles, and that receipts and expenditures of the
company are being made only in accordance with authorizations of
management and directors of the company; and (iii) provide
reasonable assurance regarding prevention or timely detection of
unauthorized acquisition, use, or disposition of the
company s assets that could have a material effect on the
financial statements.

Because of its inherent limitations, internal control over
financial reporting may not prevent or detect misstatements.
Also, projections of any evaluation of effectiveness to future
periods are subject to the risk that controls may become
inadequate because of changes in conditions, or that the degree
of compliance with the policies or procedures may deteriorate.

PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP

New York, New York

February 28, 2008

AIG 2007
Form  10-K          
129 

Table of Contents   

American International Group, Inc. and Subsidiaries

Consolidated Balance Sheet 

See Accompanying Notes to Consolidated Financial
Statements. 

130         AIG
2007 Form  10-K 

Table of Contents   

American International Group, Inc. and Subsidiaries

Consolidated Balance
Sheet    Continued  

See Accompanying Notes to Consolidated Financial
Statements. 

AIG 2007
Form  10-K          
131 

Table of Contents   

American International Group, Inc. and Subsidiaries

Consolidated Statement of Income 

See Accompanying Notes to Consolidated Financial
Statements. 

132         AIG
2007 Form  10-K 

Table of Contents   

American International Group, Inc. and Subsidiaries

Consolidated Statement of Shareholders  Equity 

See Accompanying Notes to Consolidated Financial
Statements. 

AIG 2007
Form  10-K          
133 

Table of Contents   

American International Group, Inc. and Subsidiaries

Consolidated Statement of Cash Flows 

See Accompanying Notes to Consolidated Financial
Statements. 

134         AIG
2007 Form  10-K 

Table of Contents   

American International Group, Inc. and Subsidiaries

Consolidated Statement of Cash
Flows    Continued  

See accompanying Notes to Consolidated Financial
Statements. 

AIG 2007
Form  10-K          
135 

Table of Contents   

American International Group, Inc. and Subsidiaries

Consolidated Statement of Comprehensive Income 

See Accompanying Notes to Consolidated Financial
Statements. 

136         AIG
2007 Form  10-K 

Table of Contents   

Index of Notes to Consolidated Financial
Statements 

AIG 2007
Form  10-K          
137 

Table of Contents   

American International Group, Inc. and Subsidiaries

Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements 

1. Summary of Significant
Accounting Policies  

Basis of Presentation 

The consolidated financial statements include the accounts of
AIG, its controlled subsidiaries, and variable interest entities
in which AIG is the primary beneficiary. Entities that AIG does
not consolidate but in which it holds 20 percent to
50 percent of the voting rights and/or has the ability to
exercise significant influence are accounted for under the
equity method.

Certain of AIG s foreign subsidiaries included in the
consolidated financial statements report on a fiscal year ending
November 30. The effect on AIG s consolidated
financial condition and results of operations of all material
events occurring between November 30 and December 31
for all periods presented has been recorded.

The accompanying consolidated financial statements have been
prepared in accordance with U.S. generally accepted
accounting principles (GAAP). All material intercompany accounts
and transactions have been eliminated.

Description of Business 

See Note 2 herein for a description of AIG s
businesses.

Use of Estimates 

The preparation of financial statements in conformity with GAAP
requires management to make estimates and assumptions that
affect the reported amounts of assets and liabilities, the
disclosure of contingent assets and liabilities at the date of
the financial statements and the reported amounts of revenues
and expenses during the reporting periods. Actual results could
differ, possibly materially, from those estimates.

AIG considers its most critical accounting estimates to be those
with respect to reserves for losses and loss expenses, future
policy benefits for life and accident and health contracts,
estimated gross profits for investment-oriented products,
recoverability of deferred policy acquisition costs (DAC), fair
value measurements of certain assets and liabilities, including
the super senior credit default swaps written by AIGFP,
other-than-temporary impairments in the value of investments,
the allowance for finance receivable losses and flight equipment
recoverability.

During the second half of 2007, disruption in the global credit
markets, coupled with the repricing of credit risk, and the
U.S. housing market deterioration, particularly in the
fourth quarter, created increasingly difficult conditions in the
financial markets. These conditions have resulted in greater
volatility, less liquidity, widening of credit spreads and a
lack of price transparency in certain markets and have made it
more difficult to value certain of AIG s invested assets
and the obligations and collateral relating to certain financial
instruments issued or held by AIG, such as AIGFP s super
senior credit default swap portfolio.

Revisions and Reclassifications 

In 2007, AIG determined that certain products that were
historically reported as separate account assets under American
Institute of Certified Public Accountants (AICPA) Statement of
Position
(SOP)  03-1, 
 Accounting and Reporting by Insurance Enterprises for
Certain Nontraditional Long-Duration Contracts and for Separate
Accounts  (SOP
 03-1)  should have been
reported as general account assets. Accordingly, the
December 31, 2006 consolidated balance sheet has been
revised to reflect the transfer of $2.4 billion of assets
from separate account assets to general account assets, and the
same amount of liabilities from separate account liabilities to
policyholders  contract deposits. This revision had no
effect on consolidated income before income taxes, net income,
or shareholders  equity for any period presented.

Certain reclassifications and format changes have been made to
prior period amounts to conform to the current period
presentation.

Out-of-Period Adjustments 

During 2007 and 2006, AIG recorded the effects of certain
out-of-period adjustments, which (decreased) increased net
income by $(399) million and $65 million,
respectively. During 2007, out-of-period adjustments
collectively decreased pre-tax operating income by $372 million
($399 million after tax). The adjustments were comprised of
a charge of $380 million ($247 million after tax) to
reverse net gains on transfers of investment securities among
legal entities consolidated within AIGFP and a corresponding
increase to accumulated other comprehensive income (loss);
$156 million of additional income tax expense related to
the successful remediation of the material weakness in internal
control over income tax accounting; $142 million
($92 million after tax) of additional expense related to
insurance reserves and DAC in connection with improvements in
its internal control over financial reporting and consolidation
processes; $42 million ($29 million after tax) of
additional expense, primarily related to other remediation
activities; and $192 million ($125 million after tax) of net
realized capital gains related to foreign exchange.

Accounting Policies 

(a) Revenue Recognition and Expenses: 

Premiums and Other Considerations:  Premiums for short
duration contracts and considerations received from retailers in
connection with the sale of extended service contracts are
earned primarily on a pro rata basis over the term of the
related coverage. The reserve for unearned premiums includes the
portion of premiums written and other considerations relating to
the unexpired terms of coverage.

Premiums for long duration insurance products and life
contingent annuities are recognized as revenues when due.
Estimates for premiums due but not yet collected are accrued.
Consideration for universal life and investment-type products
consists of policy charges for the cost of insurance,
administration, and surrenders during the period. Policy charges
collected with respect to future services are deferred and
recognized in a manner similar to DAC related to such products.

Net Investment Income:  Net investment income represents
income primarily from the following sources in AIG s
insurance operations:

Interest income and related expenses, including amortization of
    premiums and accretion of discounts on bonds with changes in 

138         AIG
2007 Form  10-K 

Table of Contents   

American International Group, Inc. and Subsidiaries

1. Summary of Significant
Accounting Policies  

Continued 

the timing and the amount of
    expected principal and interest cash flows reflected in the
    yield, as applicable.

Dividend income and distributions
    from common and preferred stock and other investments when
    receivable.

Realized and unrealized gains and
    losses from investments in trading securities accounted for at
    fair value.

Earnings from hedge funds and
    limited partnership investments accounted for under the equity
    method.

The difference between the
    carrying amount of a life settlement contract and the life
    insurance proceeds of the underlying life insurance policy
    recorded in income upon the death of the insured.

Realized Capital Gains (Losses):  Realized capital gains
and losses are determined by specific identification. The
realized capital gains and losses are generated primarily from
the following sources:

Sales of fixed maturity securities and equity securities (except
    trading securities accounted for at fair value), real estate,
    investments in joint ventures and limited partnerships and other
    types of investments. 

Reductions to the cost basis of fixed maturity securities and
    equity securities (except trading securities accounted for at
    fair value) and other invested assets for other-than-temporary
    impairments. 

Changes in fair value of derivatives that are not involved in
    qualifying hedging activities. 

Exchange gains and losses resulting from foreign currency
    transactions. 

Other Income:  Other income includes income from flight
equipment, Asset Management operations, the operations of AIGFP
and finance charges on consumer loans.

Income from flight equipment under operating leases is
recognized over the life of the lease as rentals become
receivable under the provisions of the lease or, in the case of
leases with varying payments, under the straight-line method
over the noncancelable term of the lease. In certain cases,
leases provide for additional payments contingent on usage.
Rental income is recognized at the time such usage occurs less a
provision for future contractual aircraft maintenance. Gains and
losses on flight equipment are recognized when flight equipment
is sold and the risk of ownership of the equipment is passed to
the new owner.

Income from Asset Management operations is generally recognized
as revenues as services are performed. Certain costs incurred in
the sale of mutual funds are deferred and subsequently amortized.

Income from the operations of AIGFP included in other income
consists of the following:

Interest income and related expenses, including amortization of
    premiums and accretion of discounts on bonds with changes in the
    timing and the amount of expected principal and interest cash
    flows reflected in the yield, as applicable. 

Dividend income and distributions from common and preferred
    stock and other investments when receivable. 

Changes in the fair value of derivatives (excluding the super
    senior credit default swap portfolio). In certain instances, no
    initial gain or loss is recognized in accordance with Emerging
    Issues Task Force Issue
    (EITF)  02-3, 
     Issues Involved in Accounting for Derivative Contracts
    Held for Trading Purposes and Contracts Involved in Energy
    Trading and Risk Management Activities 
    (EITF  02-3).  The
    initial gain or loss is recognized in income over the life of
    the transaction or when observable market data becomes available. 

Realized and unrealized gains and losses from trading securities
    and spot commodities sold but not yet purchased, futures and
    hybrid financial instruments. 

Realized gains and losses from the sale of available for sale
    securities and investments in private equities, joint ventures,
    limited partnerships and other investments. 

Exchange gains and losses resulting from foreign currency
    transactions. 

Reductions to the cost basis of securities available for sale
    for other-than-temporary impairments. 

Earnings from hedge funds and limited partnership investments
    accounted for under the equity method. 

Finance charges on consumer loans are recognized as revenue
using the interest method. Revenue ceases to be accrued when
contractual payments are not received for four consecutive
months for loans and retail sales contracts, and for
six months for revolving retail accounts and private label
receivables. Extension fees, late charges, and prepayment
penalties are recognized as revenue when received.

Incurred Policy Losses and
Benefits:   Incurred policy losses for short duration
insurance contracts consist of the estimated ultimate cost of
settling claims incurred within the reporting period, including
incurred but not reported claims, plus the changes in estimates
of current and prior period losses resulting from the continuous
review process. Benefits for long duration insurance contracts
consist of benefits paid and changes in future policy benefits
liabilities. Benefits for universal life and investment-type
products primarily consist of interest credited to policy
account balances and benefit payments made in excess of policy
account balances.

(b) Income Taxes:  
Deferred tax assets and liabilities are recorded for the effects
of temporary differences between the tax basis of an asset or
liability and its reported amount in the consolidated financial
statements. AIG assesses its ability to realize deferred tax
assets primarily based on the earnings history, the future
earnings potential, the reversal of taxable temporary
differences, and the tax planning strategies available to the
legal entities when recognizing deferred tax assets in
accordance with Statement of Financial Accounting Standards No.
(FAS) 109,  Accounting for Income Taxes 
(FAS 109). See Note 21 herein for a further discussion
of income taxes.

(c) Investments in Fixed Maturities and Equity
Securities:   Bonds held to
maturity are principally owned by insurance subsidiaries and are
carried at amortized cost when AIG has the ability and positive
intent to hold these securities until maturity.

AIG 2007
Form  10-K          
139 

Table of Contents   

American International Group, Inc. and Subsidiaries

Notes to Consolidated Financial
Statements    Continued  

1. Summary of Significant
Accounting Policies  

Continued 

When AIG does not have the positive intent to hold bonds until
maturity, these securities are classified as available for sale
or as trading and are carried at fair value.

Premiums and discounts arising from the purchase of bonds
classified as held to maturity or available for sale are treated
as yield adjustments over their estimated lives, until maturity,
or call date, if applicable.

Common and preferred stocks are carried at fair value.

AIG also enters into dollar roll agreements. These are
agreements to sell mortgage-backed securities and to repurchase
substantially similar securities at a specified price and date
in the future. At December 31, 2007 and 2006, there were no
dollar roll agreements outstanding.

For AIG s insurance subsidiaries, unrealized gains and
losses on investments in trading securities are reported in Net
investment income. Unrealized gains and losses from available
for sale investments in equity and fixed maturity securities are
reported as a separate component of Accumulated other
comprehensive income (loss), net of deferred income taxes, in
consolidated shareholders  equity. Investments in fixed
maturities and equity securities are recorded on a trade-date
basis.

AIG evaluates its investments for other-than-temporary
impairment. The determination that a security has incurred an
other-than-temporary impairment in value and the amount of any
loss recognized requires the judgment of AIG s management
and a continual review of its investments.

AIG evaluates its investments for other-than-temporary
impairment such that a security is considered a candidate for
other-than-temporary impairment if it meets any of the following
criteria:

Trading at a significant (25 percent or more) discount to
    par, amortized cost (if lower) or cost for an extended period of
    time (nine consecutive months or longer); 

The occurrence of a discrete credit event resulting in
    (i) the issuer defaulting on a material outstanding
    obligation; (ii) the issuer seeking protection from
    creditors under the bankruptcy laws or any similar laws intended
    for court supervised reorganization of insolvent enterprises; or
    (iii) the issuer proposing a voluntary reorganization
    pursuant to which creditors are asked to exchange their claims
    for cash or securities having a fair value substantially lower
    than par value of their claims; or 

AIG may not realize a full recovery on its investment regardless
    of the occurrence of one of the foregoing events. 

The above criteria also consider circumstances of a rapid and
severe market valuation decline, such as that experienced in
current credit markets, in which AIG could not reasonably assert
that the recovery period would be temporary.

At each balance sheet date, AIG evaluates its securities
holdings with unrealized losses. When AIG does not intend to
hold such securities until they have recovered their cost basis,
based on the circumstances at the date of evaluation, AIG
records the unrealized loss in income. If a loss is recognized
from a sale subsequent to a balance sheet date pursuant to
changes in circumstances, the loss is recognized in the period
in which the intent to hold the securities to recovery no longer
existed.

In periods subsequent to the recognition of an
other-than-temporary impairment charge for fixed maturity
securities, which is not credit or foreign exchange related, AIG
generally accretes the discount or amortizes the reduced premium
resulting from the reduction in cost basis over the remaining
life of the security.

For certain investments in beneficial interests in securitized
financial assets of less than high quality with contractual cash
flows, including asset-backed securities,
EITF  99-20, 
 Recognition of Interest Income and Impairment on Purchased
Beneficial Interests and Beneficial Interests that Continued to
Be Held by a Transferor in Securitized Financial Assets 
requires periodic updates of AIG s best estimate of cash
flows over the life of the security. If the fair value of an
investment in beneficial interests in a securitized financial
asset is less than its cost or amortized cost and there has been
a decrease in the present value of the estimated cash flows
since the last revised estimate, considering both their timing
and amount, an other-than-temporary impairment charge is
recognized. Interest income is recognized based on changes in
the timing and the amount of expected principal and interest
cash flows reflected in the yield.

AIG also considers its intent and ability to retain a
temporarily depressed security until recovery. Estimating future
cash flows is a quantitative and qualitative process that
incorporates information received from third-party sources along
with certain internal assumptions and judgments regarding the
future performance of the underlying collateral. In addition,
projections of expected future cash flows may change based upon
new information regarding the performance of the underlying
collateral.

(d) Mortgage and Other Loans Receivable  
net:   Mortgage and other loans
receivable includes mortgage loans on real estate, policy loans
and collateral, commercial and guaranteed loans. Mortgage loans
on real estate and collateral, commercial and guaranteed loans
are carried at unpaid principal balances less credit allowances
and plus or minus adjustments for the accretion or amortization
of discount or premium. Interest income on such loans is accrued
as earned.

Impairment of mortgage loans on real estate and collateral and
commercial loans is based on certain risk factors and when
collection of all amounts due under the contractual terms is not
probable. This impairment is generally measured based on the
present value of expected future cash flows discounted at the
loan s effective interest rate subject to the fair value of
underlying collateral. Interest income on such impaired loans is
recognized as cash is received.

Policy loans are carried at unpaid principal amount. There is no
allowance for policy loans because these loans serve to reduce
the death benefit paid when the death claim is made and the
balances are effectively collateralized by the cash surrender
value of the policy.

(e) Financial Services   Flight
Equipment:   Flight equipment
is stated at cost, net of accumulated depreciation. Major
additions, modifications and interest are capitalized. Normal
maintenance and repairs, airframe and engine overhauls and

140         AIG
2007 Form  10-K 

Table of Contents   

American International Group, Inc. and Subsidiaries

1. Summary of Significant
Accounting Policies  

Continued 

compliance with return conditions of flight equipment on lease
are provided by and paid for by the lessee. Under the provisions
of most leases for certain airframe and engine overhauls, the
lessee is reimbursed for certain costs incurred up to but not
exceeding contingent rentals paid to AIG by the lessee. AIG
provides a charge to income for such reimbursements based on the
expected reimbursements during the life of the lease. For
passenger aircraft, depreciation is generally computed on the
straight-line basis to a residual value of approximately
15 percent of the cost of the asset over its estimated
useful life of 25 years. For freighter aircraft,
depreciation is computed on the straight-line basis to a zero
residual value over its useful life of 35 years. At
December 31, 2007, ILFC had twelve freighter aircraft in
its fleet. Aircraft in the fleet are evaluated for impairment in
accordance with FAS 144. FAS 144 requires long-lived
assets to be evaluated for impairment whenever events or changes
in circumstances indicate the carrying amount of an asset may
not be recoverable. Recoverability of assets is measured by
comparing the carrying amount of an asset to future undiscounted
net cash flows expected to be generated by the asset. These
evaluations for impairment are significantly affected by
estimates of future net cash flows and other factors that
involve uncertainty.

When assets are retired or disposed of, the cost and associated
accumulated depreciation are removed from the related accounts
and the difference, net of proceeds, is recorded as a gain or
loss in Other income.

(f) Financial Services   Securities Available
for Sale, at fair value:  
These securities are held to meet long-term investment
objectives and are accounted for as available for sale, carried
at fair values and recorded on a trade-date basis. This
portfolio is hedged using interest rate, foreign exchange,
commodity and equity derivatives. The market risk associated
with such hedges is managed on a portfolio basis, with
third-party hedging transactions executed as necessary. Because
hedge accounting treatment is not achieved in accordance with
FAS 133,  Accounting for Derivative Instruments and
Hedging Activities  (FAS 133), the unrealized gains
and losses on these securities resulting from changes in
interest rates, currency rates and equity prices are recorded in
Accumulated other comprehensive income (loss) in consolidated
shareholders  equity while the unrealized gains and losses
on the hedging instruments are reflected in Other income.

(g) Financial Services   Trading Securities,
at fair value:   Trading
securities are held to meet short-term investment objectives and
to economically hedge other securities. Trading securities are
recorded on a trade-date basis and carried at fair value.
Realized and unrealized gains and losses are reflected in Other
income.

(h) Financial Services   Spot
Commodities:   Spot commodities
held in AIGFP s wholly owned broker-dealer subsidiary are
recorded at fair value. All other commodities are recorded at
the lower of cost or fair value. Spot commodities are recorded
on a trade-date basis. The exposure to market risk may be
reduced through the use of forwards, futures and option
contracts. Lower of cost or fair value reductions in commodity
positions and unrealized gains and losses in related derivatives
are reflected in Other income.

(i) Financial Services   Unrealized Gain and
Unrealized Loss on Swaps, Options and Forward
Transactions:   Interest rate,
currency, equity and commodity swaps (including AIGFP s
super senior credit default swap portfolio), swaptions, options
and forward transactions are accounted for as derivatives
recorded on a trade-date basis, and carried at fair value.
Unrealized gains and losses are reflected in income, when
appropriate. In certain instances, when income is not recognized
at inception of the contract under
EITF  02-3,  income
is recognized over the life of the contract and as observable
market data becomes available. 

(j) Financial Services   Trade Receivables and
Trade Payables:   Trade
receivables and Trade payables include option premiums paid and
received and receivables from and payables to counterparties
that relate to unrealized gains and losses on futures, forwards,
and options and balances due from and due to clearing brokers
and exchanges.

(k) Financial Services   Securities Purchased
(Sold) Under Agreements to Resell (Repurchase), at contract
value:   Securities purchased
under agreements to resell and Securities sold under agreements
to repurchase are accounted for as collateralized borrowing or
lending transactions and are recorded at their contracted resale
or repurchase amounts, plus accrued interest. AIG s policy
is to take possession of or obtain a security interest in
securities purchased under agreements to resell.

AIG minimizes the credit risk that counterparties to
transactions might be unable to fulfill their contractual
obligations by monitoring customer credit exposure and
collateral value and generally requiring additional collateral
to be deposited with AIG when necessary.

(l) Financial Services   Finance
Receivables:   Finance
receivables, which are reported net of unearned finance charges,
are held for both investment purposes and for sale. Finance
receivables held for investment purposes are carried at
amortized cost, which includes accrued finance charges on
interest bearing finance receivables, unamortized deferred
origination costs, and unamortized net premiums and discounts on
purchased finance receivables. The allowance for finance
receivable losses is established through the provision for
finance receivable losses charged to expense and is maintained
at a level considered adequate to absorb estimated credit losses
in the portfolio. The portfolio is periodically evaluated on a
pooled basis and factors such as economic conditions, portfolio
composition, and loss and delinquency experience are considered
in the evaluation of the allowance.

Direct costs of originating finance receivables, net of
nonrefundable points and fees, are deferred and included in the
carrying amount of the related receivables. The amount deferred
is amortized to income as an adjustment to finance charge
revenues using the interest method.

AIG 2007
Form  10-K          
141 

Table of Contents   

American International Group, Inc. and Subsidiaries

Notes to Consolidated Financial
Statements    Continued  

1. Summary of Significant
Accounting Policies  

Continued 

Finance receivables originated and intended for sale in the
secondary market are carried at the lower of cost or fair value,
as determined by aggregate outstanding commitments from
investors or current investor yield requirements. American
General Finance, Inc. (AGF) recognizes net unrealized losses
through a valuation allowance by charges to income.

(m) Securities Lending Invested Collateral, at Fair
Value and Securities Lending
Payable:   AIG s insurance
and asset management operations lend their securities and
primarily take cash as collateral with respect to the securities
lent. Invested collateral consists of interest-bearing cash
equivalents and floating rate bonds, whose changes in fair value
are recorded as a separate component of Accumulated other
comprehensive income (loss), net of deferred income taxes. The
invested collateral is evaluated for other-than-temporary
impairment by applying the same criteria used for investments in
fixed maturities. Income earned on invested collateral, net of
interest payable to the collateral provider, is recorded in Net
investment income.

The fair value of securities pledged under securities lending
arrangements was $76 billion and $69 billion at
December 31, 2007 and 2006, respectively. These securities
are included in bonds available for sale in AIG s
consolidated balance sheet.

(n) Other Invested
Assets:   Other invested assets
consist primarily of investments by AIG s insurance
operations in hedge funds, private equity and limited
partnerships.

Hedge funds and limited partnerships in which AIG s
insurance operations hold in the aggregate less than a five
percent interest are reported at fair value. The change in fair
value is recognized as a component of Accumulated other
comprehensive income (loss).

With respect to hedge funds and limited partnerships in which
AIG holds in the aggregate a five percent or greater interest or
less than a five percent interest but in which AIG has more than
a minor influence over the operations of the investee,
AIG s carrying value is its share of the net asset value of
the funds or the partnerships. The changes in such net asset
values, accounted for under the equity method, are recorded in
Net investment income.

In applying the equity method of accounting, AIG consistently
uses the most recently available financial information provided
by the general partner or manager of each of these investments,
which is one to three months prior to the end of AIG s
reporting period. The financial statements of these investees
are generally audited on an annual basis.

Also included in Other invested assets are real estate held for
investment, aircraft asset investments held by non-financial
services subsidiaries and investments in life settlement
contracts. See Note 3(g) herein for further information.

(o) Short-term
Investments:   Short-term
investments consist of interest-bearing cash equivalents, time
deposits, and investments with original maturities within one
year from the date of purchase, such as commercial paper.

(p) Cash:   Cash
represents cash on hand and non-interest bearing demand deposits.

(q) Reinsurance
Assets:   Reinsurance assets
include the balances due from reinsurance and insurance
companies under the terms of AIG s reinsurance agreements
for paid and unpaid losses and loss expenses, ceded unearned
premiums and ceded future policy benefits for life and accident
and health insurance contracts and benefits paid and unpaid.
Amounts related to paid and unpaid losses and benefits and loss
expenses with respect to these reinsurance agreements are
substantially collateralized.

(r) Deferred Policy Acquisition Costs: 

Policy acquisition costs represent those costs, including
commissions, premium taxes and other underwriting expenses that
vary with and are primarily related to the acquisition of new
business.

General Insurance:  Policy acquisition costs are deferred
and amortized over the period in which the related premiums
written are earned. DAC is grouped consistent with the manner in
which the insurance contracts are acquired, serviced and
measured for profitability and is reviewed for recoverability
based on the profitability of the underlying insurance
contracts. Investment income is not anticipated in assessing the
recoverability of DAC.

Life Insurance & Retirement Services:  Policy
acquisition costs for traditional life insurance products are
generally deferred and amortized over the premium paying period
in accordance with FAS 60,  Accounting and Reporting
by Insurance Enterprises  (FAS 60). Policy acquisition
costs and policy issuance costs related to universal life,
participating life, and investment-type products
(investment-oriented products) are deferred and amortized, with
interest, in relation to the incidence of estimated gross
profits to be realized over the estimated lives of the contracts
in accordance with FAS 97,  Accounting and Reporting
by Insurance Enterprises for Certain Long-Duration Contracts and
for Realized Gains and Losses from the Sale of Investments 
(FAS 97). Estimated gross profits are composed of net
interest income, net realized investment gains and losses, fees,
surrender charges, expenses, and mortality and morbidity gains
and losses. If estimated gross profits change significantly, DAC
is recalculated using the new assumptions. Any resulting
adjustment is included in income as an adjustment to DAC. DAC is
grouped consistent with the manner in which the insurance
contracts are acquired, serviced and measured for profitability
and is reviewed for recoverability based on the current and
projected future profitability of the underlying insurance
contracts.

The DAC for investment-oriented products is also adjusted with
respect to estimated gross profits as a result of changes in the
net unrealized gains or losses on fixed maturity and equity
securities available for sale. Because fixed maturity and equity
securities available for sale are carried at aggregate fair
value, an adjustment is made to DAC equal to the change in
amortization that would have been recorded if such securities
had been sold at their stated aggregate fair value and the
proceeds reinvested at current yields. The change in this
adjustment, net of tax, is included with the change in net
unrealized gains/losses on fixed

142         AIG
2007 Form  10-K 

Table of Contents   

American International Group, Inc. and Subsidiaries

1. Summary of Significant
Accounting Policies  

Continued 

maturity and equity securities available for sale that is
credited or charged directly to Accumulated other comprehensive
income (loss).

Value of Business Acquired (VOBA) is determined at the time of
acquisition and is reported in the consolidated balance sheet
with DAC. This value is based on the present value of future
pre-tax profits discounted at yields applicable at the time of
purchase. For products accounted for under FAS 60, VOBA is
amortized over the life of the business similar to that for DAC
based on the assumptions at purchase. For products accounted for
under FAS 97, VOBA is amortized in relation to the
estimated gross profits to date for each period. As of
December 31, 2007 and 2006, there had been no impairments
of VOBA.

(s) Investments in Partially Owned
Companies:   Investments in
partially owned companies represents investments entered into
for strategic purposes and not solely for capital appreciation
or for income generation. These investments are accounted for
under the equity method. All other equity method investments are
reported in Other invested assets. At December 31, 2007,
AIG s significant investments in partially owned companies
included its 26.0 percent interest in Tata AIG Life
Insurance Company, Ltd., its 26.0 percent interest in Tata
AIG General Insurance Company, Ltd. and its 25.4 percent
interest in The Fuji Fire and Marine Insurance Co., Ltd.
Dividends received from unconsolidated entities in which
AIG s ownership interest is less than 50 percent were
$30 million, $28 million and $146 million for the
years ended December 31, 2007, 2006 and 2005, respectively.
The undistributed earnings of unconsolidated entities in which
AIG s ownership interest is less than 50 percent were
$266 million, $300 million and $179 million at
December 31, 2007, 2006 and 2005, respectively.

(t) Real Estate and Other Fixed
Assets:   The costs of
buildings and furniture and equipment are depreciated
principally on the straight-line basis over their estimated
useful lives (maximum of 40 years for buildings and ten
years for furniture and equipment). Expenditures for maintenance
and repairs are charged to income as incurred; expenditures for
betterments are capitalized and depreciated. AIG periodically
assesses the carrying value of its real estate for purposes of
determining any asset impairment.

Also included in Real Estate and Other Fixed Assets are
capitalized software costs, which represent costs directly
related to obtaining, developing or upgrading internal use
software. Such costs are capitalized and amortized using the
straight-line method over a period generally not exceeding five
years.

(u) Separate and Variable
Accounts:   Separate and
variable accounts represent funds for which investment income
and investment gains and losses accrue directly to the
policyholders who bear the investment risk. Each account has
specific investment objectives, and the assets are carried at
fair value. The assets of each account are legally segregated
and are not subject to claims that arise out of any other
business of AIG. The liabilities for these accounts are equal to
the account assets.

(v) Goodwill:  
Goodwill is the excess of cost over the fair value of
identifiable net assets acquired. Goodwill is reviewed for
impairment on an annual basis, or more frequently if
circumstances indicate that a possible impairment has occurred.
The assessment of impairment involves a two-step process whereby
an initial assessment for potential impairment is performed,
followed by a measurement of the amount of impairment, if any.
Impairment testing is performed using the fair value approach,
which requires the use of estimates and judgment, at the
 reporting unit  level. A reporting unit is the
operating segment, or a business that is one level below the
operating segment if discrete financial information is prepared
and regularly reviewed by management at that level. The
determination of a reporting unit s fair value is based on
management s best estimate, which generally considers the
market-based earning multiples of the unit s peer companies
or expected future cash flows. If the carrying value of a
reporting unit exceeds its fair value, an impairment is
recognized as a charge against income equal to the excess of the
carrying value of goodwill over its fair value. No impairments
were recorded in 2007, 2006 or 2005. Changes in the carrying
amount of goodwill result from business acquisitions, the
payment of contingent consideration, foreign currency
translation adjustments and purchase price adjustments.

(w) Other Assets:  
Other assets consist of prepaid expenses, including deferred
advertising costs, sales inducement assets, non-AIGFP
derivatives assets carried at fair value, deposits, other
deferred charges and other intangible assets.

Certain direct response advertising costs are deferred and
amortized over the expected future benefit period in accordance
with SOP 93-7,  Reporting on Advertising Costs. 
When AIG can demonstrate that its customers have responded
specifically to direct-response advertising, the primary purpose
of which is to elicit sales to customers, and when it can be
shown such advertising results in probable future economic
benefits, the advertising costs are capitalized. Deferred
advertising costs are amortized on a cost-pool-by-cost-pool
basis over the expected future economic benefit period and are
reviewed regularly for recoverability. Deferred advertising
costs totaled $1.35 billion and $1.05 billion at
December 31, 2007 and 2006, respectively. The amount of
expense amortized into income was $395 million,
$359 million and $272 million, for the years ended
2007, 2006, and 2005, respectively.

AIG offers sales inducements, which include enhanced crediting
rates or bonus payments to contract holders (bonus interest) on
certain annuity and investment contract products. Sales
inducements provided to the contractholder are recognized as
part of the liability for policyholders  contract deposits
in the consolidated balance sheet. Such amounts are deferred and
amortized over the life of the contract using the same
methodology and assumptions used to amortize DAC. To qualify for
such accounting treatment, the bonus interest must be explicitly
identified in the contract at inception, and AIG must
demonstrate that such amounts are incremental to amounts AIG
credits on similar contracts without bonus interest, and are
higher than the contract s expected ongoing crediting rates
for periods after the bonus period. The deferred bonus interest
and other deferred

AIG 2007
Form  10-K          
143 

Table of Contents   

American International Group, Inc. and Subsidiaries

Notes to Consolidated Financial
Statements    Continued  

1. Summary of Significant
Accounting Policies  

Continued 

sales inducement assets totaled $1.7 billion and
$1.3 billion at December 31, 2007 and 2006,
respectively. The amortization expense associated with these
assets is reported within Incurred policy losses and benefits
expense in the consolidated statement of income. Such
amortization expense totaled $149 million,
$132 million and $127 million for the years ended
December 31, 2007, 2006 and 2005, respectively.

See Note 8 herein for a discussion of derivatives.

(x) Reserve for Losses and Loss
Expenses:   Losses and loss
expenses are charged to income as incurred. The reserve for
losses and loss expenses represents the accumulation of
estimates for unpaid reported losses and includes provisions for
losses incurred but not reported. The methods of determining
such estimates and establishing resulting reserves, including
amounts relating to allowances for estimated unrecoverable
reinsurance, are reviewed and updated. If the estimate of
reserves is determined to be inadequate or redundant, the
increase or decrease is reflected in income. AIG discounts its
loss reserves relating to workers compensation business written
by its U.S. domiciled subsidiaries as permitted by the
domiciliary statutory regulatory authorities.

(y) Future Policy Benefits for Life and Accident and
Health Contracts and Policyholders  Contract
Deposits:   The liability for
future policy benefits and policyholders  contract deposits
are established using assumptions described in Note 9
herein. Future policy benefits for life and accident and health
insurance contracts include provisions for future dividends to
participating policyholders, accrued in accordance with all
applicable regulatory or contractual provisions.
Policyholders  contract deposits include AIG s
liability for certain guarantee benefits accounted for as
embedded derivatives at fair value in accordance with
FAS 133.

(z) Other Policyholders 
Funds:   Other
policyholders  funds are reported at cost and include any
policyholders  funds on deposit that encompass premium
deposits and similar items.

(aa) Financial Services   Securities and Spot
Commodities Sold but not yet Purchased, at Fair
Value:   Securities and spot
commodities sold but not yet purchased represent sales of
securities and spot commodities not owned at the time of sale.
The obligations arising from such transactions are recorded on a
trade-date basis and carried at fair value. Also included are
obligations under gold leases, which are accounted for as a debt
host with an embedded gold derivative.

(bb) Commercial Paper and Extendible Commercial Notes
and Long-Term Borrowings:  
AIG s funding is principally obtained from medium and
long-term borrowings and commercial paper. Commercial paper,
when issued at a discount, is recorded at the proceeds received
and accreted to its par value. Extendible commercial notes are
issued by AGF with initial maturities of up to 90 days,
which AGF may extend to 390 days. Long-term borrowings are
carried at the principal amount borrowed, net of unamortized
discounts or premiums. See Note 11 herein for additional
information.

Long-term borrowings also include liabilities connected to trust
preferred stock principally related to outstanding securities
issued by AIG Life Holdings (US), Inc. (AIGLH), a wholly owned
subsidiary of AIG. Cash distributions on such preferred stock
are accounted for as interest expense.

(cc) Other
Liabilities:   Other
liabilities consist of other funds on deposit, non-AIGFP
free-standing derivatives liabilities carried at fair value, and
other payables. See Note 8 herein for a discussion of
derivatives. AIG has entered into certain insurance and
reinsurance contracts, primarily in its General Insurance
segment, that do not contain sufficient insurance risk to be
accounted for as insurance or reinsurance. Accordingly, the
premiums received on such contracts, after deduction for certain
related expenses, are recorded as deposits within Other
liabilities in the consolidated balance sheet. Net proceeds of
these deposits are invested and generate net investment income.
As amounts are paid, consistent with the underlying contracts,
the deposit liability is reduced.

(dd) Contingent
Liabilities:   Amounts are
accrued for the resolution of claims that have either been
asserted or are deemed probable of assertion if, in the opinion
of management, it is both probable that a liability has been
incurred and the amount of the liability can be reasonably
estimated. In many cases, it is not possible to determine
whether a liability has been incurred or to estimate the
ultimate or minimum amount of that liability until years after
the contingency arises, in which case, no accrual is made until
that time.

(ee) Preferred Shareholders  Equity in Subsidiary
Companies:   Preferred
shareholders  equity in subsidiary companies relates
principally to outstanding preferred stock or interest of ILFC,
a wholly owned subsidiary of AIG. Cash distributions on such
preferred stock or interest are accounted for as interest
expense.

(ff) Foreign
Currency:   Financial statement
accounts expressed in foreign currencies are translated into
U.S. dollars in accordance with FAS 52,  Foreign
Currency Translation  (FAS 52). Under FAS 52,
functional currency assets and liabilities are translated into
U.S. dollars generally using rates of exchange prevailing
at the balance sheet date of each respective subsidiary and the
related translation adjustments are recorded as a separate
component of Accumulated other comprehensive income (loss), net
of any related taxes, in consolidated shareholders  equity.
Functional currencies are generally the currencies of the local
operating environment. Income statement accounts expressed in
functional currencies are translated using average exchange
rates during the period. The adjustments resulting from
translation of financial statements of foreign entities
operating in highly inflationary economies are recorded in
income. Exchange gains and losses resulting from foreign
currency transactions are recorded in income.

(gg) Earnings per
Share:   Basic earnings per
share is based on the weighted average number of common shares
outstanding, adjusted to reflect all stock dividends and stock
splits. Diluted

144         AIG
2007 Form  10-K 

Table of Contents   

American International Group, Inc. and Subsidiaries

1. Summary of Significant
Accounting Policies  

Continued 

earnings per share is based on those shares used in basic
earnings per share plus shares that would have been outstanding
assuming issuance of common shares for all dilutive potential
common shares outstanding, adjusted to reflect all stock
dividends and stock splits.

(hh) Recent Accounting Standards: 

Accounting Changes 

SOP 05-1  

In September 2005, the AICPA issued SOP 05-1,
 Accounting by Insurance Enterprises for Deferred
Acquisition Costs in Connection with Modifications or Exchanges
of Insurance Contracts  (SOP 05-1). SOP 05-1 provides
guidance on accounting for internal replacements of insurance
and investment contracts other than those specifically described
in FAS 97. SOP 05-1 defines an internal replacement as a
modification in product benefits, features, rights, or coverage
that occurs by the exchange of a contract for a new contract, or
by amendment, endorsement, or rider to a contract, or by the
election of a feature or coverage within a contract. Internal
replacements that result in a substantially changed contract are
accounted for as a termination and a replacement contract.

SOP 05-1 became effective on January 1, 2007 and generally
affects the accounting for internal replacements occurring after
that date. In the first quarter of 2007, AIG recorded a
cumulative effect reduction of $82 million, net of tax, to
the opening balance of retained earnings on the date of
adoption. This adoption reflected changes in unamortized DAC,
VOBA, deferred sales inducement assets, unearned revenue
liabilities and future policy benefits for life and accident and
health insurance contracts resulting from a shorter expected
life related to certain group life and health insurance
contracts and the effect on the gross profits of
investment-oriented products related to previously anticipated
future internal replacements. This cumulative effect adjustment
affected only the Life Insurance & Retirement Services
segment.

FAS 155  

In February, 2006, the Financial Accounting Standards Board
(FASB) issued FAS 155,  Accounting for Certain Hybrid
Financial Instruments   an amendment of FAS 140 and
FAS 133  (FAS 155). FAS 155 allows AIG to include changes
in fair value in earnings on an instrument-by-instrument basis
for any hybrid financial instrument that contains an embedded
derivative that would otherwise be required to be bifurcated and
accounted for separately under FAS 133. The election to measure
the hybrid instrument at fair value is irrevocable at the
acquisition or issuance date.

AIG elected to early adopt FAS 155 as of January 1, 2006,
and apply FAS 155 fair value measurement to certain structured
note liabilities and structured investments in AIG s
available for sale portfolio that existed at December 31,
2005. The effect of this adoption resulted in an
$11 million after-tax ($18 million pre-tax) decrease
to opening retained earnings as of January 1, 2006,
representing the difference between the fair value of these
hybrid financial instruments and the prior carrying value as of
December 31, 2005. The effect of adoption on after-tax
gross gains and losses was $218 million ($336 million
pre-tax) and $229 million ($354 million pre-tax),
respectively.

In connection with AIG s early adoption of FAS 155,
structured note liabilities of $8.9 billion, other
structured liabilities in conjunction with equity derivative
transactions of $111 million, and hybrid financial
instruments of $522 million at December 31, 2006 are
now carried at fair value. The effect on earnings for 2006, for
changes in the fair value of hybrid financial instruments, was a
pre-tax loss of $313 million, of which $287 million
was reflected in Other income and was largely offset by gains on
economic hedge positions which were also reflected in operating
income, and $26 million was reflected in Net investment
income.

FAS 158  

In September 2006, the FASB issued FAS 158,
 Employers  Accounting for Defined Benefit Pension and
Other Postretirement Plans   an amendment of FASB
Statements No. 87, 88, 106 and 132R  (FAS 158). FAS
158 requires AIG to prospectively recognize the overfunded or
underfunded status of defined benefit postretirement plans as an
asset or liability in AIG s consolidated balance sheet and
to recognize changes in that funded status in the year in which
the changes occur through Other comprehensive income. FAS 158
also requires AIG to measure the funded status of plans as of
the date of its year-end balance sheet, with limited exceptions.
AIG adopted FAS 158 for the year ended December 31, 2006.
The cumulative effect, net of deferred income taxes, on
AIG s consolidated balance sheet at December 31, 2006
was a net reduction in shareholders  equity through a
charge to Accumulated other comprehensive income (loss) of
$532 million, with a corresponding net decrease of
$538 million in total assets, and a net decrease of
$6 million in total liabilities. See Note 18 herein
for additional information on the adoption of FAS 158.

FIN 48  

In July 2006, the FASB issued FASB Interpretation
No. (FIN) 48,  Accounting for Uncertainty in
Income Taxes   an interpretation of FASB Statement
No. 109  (FIN 48), which clarifies the accounting
for uncertainty in income tax positions. FIN 48 prescribes
a recognition threshold and measurement attribute for the
financial statement recognition and measurement of an income tax
position taken or expected to be taken in a tax return.
FIN 48 also provides guidance on derecognition,
classification, interest and penalties, accounting in interim
periods, and additional disclosures. AIG adopted FIN 48 on
January 1, 2007. Upon adoption, AIG recognized a
$71 million increase in the liability for unrecognized tax
benefits, which was accounted for as a decrease to opening
retained earnings as of January 1, 2007. See Note 21
for additional FIN 48 disclosures.

FSP 13-2  

In July 2006, the FASB issued FASB Staff Position
No. (FSP) FAS  13-2, 
 Accounting for a Change or Projected

AIG 2007
Form  10-K          
145 

Table of Contents   

American International Group, Inc. and Subsidiaries

Notes to Consolidated Financial
Statements    Continued  

1. Summary of Significant
Accounting Policies  

Continued 

Change in the Timing of Cash Flows Relating to Income Taxes
Generated by a Leveraged Lease Transaction  (FSP
 13-2).  FSP
 13-2  addresses how a
change or projected change in the timing of cash flows relating
to income taxes generated by a leveraged lease transaction
affects the accounting for the lease by the lessor, and directs
that the tax assumptions be consistent with any FIN 48
uncertain tax position related to the lease. AIG adopted
FSP  13-2  on
January 1, 2007. Upon adoption, AIG recorded a
$50 million decrease in the opening balance of retained
earnings, net of tax, to reflect the cumulative effect of this
change in accounting.

As a result of adopting
SOP  05-1, 
FIN 48 and
FSP  13-2,  AIG
recorded a total decrease to opening retained earnings of
$203 million as of January 1, 2007.

Future Application of Accounting Standards 

FAS 157  

In September 2006, the FASB issued FAS 157,  Fair
Value Measurements  (FAS 157). FAS 157 defines
fair value, establishes a framework for measuring fair value and
expands disclosure requirements regarding fair value
measurements but does not change existing guidance about whether
an instrument is carried at fair value. FAS 157 nullifies
the guidance in
EITF  02-3  that
precluded the recognition of a trading profit at the inception
of a derivative contract unless the fair value of such contract
was obtained from a quoted market price or other valuation
technique incorporating observable market data. FAS 157
also clarifies that an issuer s credit standing should be
considered when measuring liabilities at fair value.

AIG adopted FAS 157 on January 1, 2008, its required
effective date. FAS 157 must be applied prospectively,
except that the difference between the carrying amount and fair
value of a stand-alone derivative or hybrid instrument measured
using the guidance in
EITF  02-3  on
recognition of a trading profit at the inception of a
derivative, is to be applied as a cumulative-effect adjustment
to opening retained earnings on January 1, 2008. The
adoption of FAS 157 was not material to AIG s
financial condition. However, the adoption of FAS 157 is
expected to affect first quarter 2008 earnings, due to changes
in the valuation methodology for hybrid financial instrument and
derivative liabilities (both freestanding and embedded)
currently carried at fair value. These methodology changes
primarily include the incorporation of AIG s own credit
risk and the inclusion of explicit risk margins, where
appropriate.

FAS 159  

In February 2007, the FASB issued FAS 159,  The Fair
Value Option for Financial Assets and Financial
Liabilities  (FAS 159). FAS 159 permits entities
to choose to measure at fair value many financial instruments
and certain other items that are not required to be measured at
fair value. Subsequent changes in fair value for designated
items are required to be reported in income. FAS 159 also
establishes presentation and disclosure requirements for similar
types of assets and liabilities measured at fair value.
FAS 159 permits the fair value option election on an
 instrument-by-instrument 
basis for eligible items existing at the adoption date and at
initial recognition of an asset or liability or upon an event
that gives rise to a new basis of accounting for that instrument.

AIG adopted FAS 159 on January 1, 2008, its required
effective date. The adoption of FAS 159 with respect to
elections made in the Life Insurance & Retirement
Services segment is expected to result in a decrease to opening
2008 retained earnings of approximately $600 million. The
adoption of FAS 159 with respect to elections made by AIGFP
is currently being evaluated for the effect of recently issued
draft guidance by the FASB, anticipated to be issued in final
form in early 2008, and its potential effect on AIG s
consolidated financial statements.

SOP 07-1  

In June 2007, the AICPA issued SOP
No.  07-1 
(SOP  07-1), 
 Clarification of the Scope of the Audit and Accounting
Guide  Audits of Investment Companies  and Accounting
by Parent Companies and Equity Method Investors for Investments
in Investment Companies. 
SOP  07-1  amends
the guidance for whether an entity may apply the Audit and
Accounting Guide,  Audits of Investment Companies 
(the Guide). In February 2008, the FASB issued an FSP
indefinitely deferring the effective date of
SOP  07-1. 

FAS 141(R)  

In December 2007, the FASB issued FAS 141 (revised 2007),
 Business Combinations    (FAS 141(R)).
FAS 141(R) changes the accounting for business combinations
in a number of ways, including broadening the transactions or
events that are considered business combinations, requiring an
acquirer to recognize 100 percent of the fair values of
assets acquired, liabilities assumed, and noncontrolling
interests in acquisitions of less than a 100 percent
controlling interest when the acquisition constitutes a change
in control of the acquired entity, recognizing contingent
consideration arrangements at their acquisition-date fair values
with subsequent changes in fair value generally reflected in
income, and recognizing preacquisition loss and gain
contingencies at their acquisition-date fair values, among other
changes.

FAS 141(R) is required to be adopted for business
combinations for which the acquisition date is on or after the
beginning of the first annual reporting period beginning on or
after December 15, 2008 (January 1, 2009 for AIG).
Early adoption is prohibited. AIG is evaluating the effect
FAS 141(R) will have on its consolidated financial
statements.

FAS 160  

In December 2007, the FASB issued FAS 160,
 Noncontrolling Interests in Consolidated Financial
Statements, an amendment of ARB No. 51 
(FAS 160). FAS 160 requires noncontrolling (i.e.,
minority) interests in partially owned consolidated subsidiaries
to be classified in the consolidated balance sheet as a separate
component of consolidated shareholders  equity.
FAS 160 also

146         AIG
2007 Form  10-K 

Table of Contents   

American International Group, Inc. and Subsidiaries

1. Summary of Significant
Accounting Policies  

Continued 

establishes accounting rules for subsequent acquisitions and
sales of noncontrolling interests and how noncontrolling
interests should be presented in the consolidated statement of
income. The noncontrolling interests  share of subsidiary
income should be reported as a part of consolidated net income
with disclosure of the attribution of consolidated net income to
the controlling and noncontrolling interests on the face of the
consolidated statement of income.

FAS 160 is required to be adopted in the first annual
reporting period beginning on or after December 15, 2008
(January 1, 2009 for AIG) and earlier application is
prohibited. FAS 160 must be adopted prospectively, except
that noncontrolling interests should be reclassified from
liabilities to a separate component of shareholders  equity
and consolidated net income should be recast to include net
income attributable to both the controlling and noncontrolling
interests retrospectively. Had AIG adopted FAS 160 at
December 31, 2007, AIG would have reclassified
$10.4 billion of minority (i.e., noncontrolling) interests
from liabilities to Shareholders  equity.

2. Segment Information  

AIG identifies its reportable segments by product line
consistent with its management structure. These segments and
their respective operations are as follows:

General Insurance: 
 AIG s General Insurance subsidiaries write
substantially all lines of commercial property and casualty
insurance and various personal lines both domestically and
abroad. Revenues in the General Insurance segment represent
General Insurance net Premiums and other considerations earned,
Net investment income and Net realized capital gains (losses).
AIG s principal General Insurance operations are as follows:

Domestic Brokerage Group (DBG) writes substantially all
classes of business insurance in the U.S. and Canada,
accepting such business mainly from insurance brokers.

Transatlantic Holdings, Inc. (Transatlantic) subsidiaries offer
reinsurance on both a treaty and facultative basis to insurers
in the U.S. and abroad. Transatlantic structures programs for a
full range of property and casualty products with an emphasis on
specialty risks.

AIG s Personal Lines operations provide automobile
insurance through aigdirect.com, the newly formed operation
resulting from the merger of AIG Direct and 21st Century
Insurance Group (21st Century), and the Agency Auto Division, as
well as a broad range of coverages for high net worth
individuals through the AIG Private Client Group.

Mortgage Guaranty operations provide residential mortgage
guaranty insurance that covers the first loss for credit
defaults on high loan-to-value conventional first- and
second-lien mortgages for the purchase or refinance of one to
four family residences.

AIG s Foreign General Insurance group accepts risks
primarily underwritten through American International
Underwriters (AIU), a marketing unit consisting of wholly owned
agencies and insurance companies. The Foreign General Insurance
group also includes business written by AIG s foreign-based
insurance subsidiaries. The Foreign General Insurance group uses
various marketing methods to write both business and consumer
lines insurance with certain refinements for local laws, customs
and needs. AIU operates in Asia, the Pacific Rim, Europe,
including the United Kingdom, Africa, the Middle East and Latin
America.

Each of the General Insurance sub-segments is comprised of
groupings of major products and services as follows: DBG is
comprised of domestic commercial insurance products and
services; Transatlantic is comprised of reinsurance products and
services sold to other general insurance companies; Personal
Lines is comprised of general insurance products and services
sold to individuals; Mortgage Guaranty is comprised of products
insuring against losses arising under certain loan agreements;
and Foreign General is comprised of general insurance products
sold overseas.

Life Insurance & Retirement
Services:   AIG s Life Insurance &
Retirement Services subsidiaries offer a wide range of insurance
and retirement savings products both domestically and abroad.
Insurance-oriented products consist of individual and group
life, payout annuities (including structured settlements),
endowment and accident and health policies. Retirement savings
products consist generally of fixed and variable annuities.
Revenues in the Life Insurance & Retirement Services
segment represent Life Insurance & Retirement Services
Premiums and other considerations, Net investment income and Net
realized capital gains (losses).

AIG s principal Foreign Life Insurance &
Retirement Services operations are American Life Insurance
Company (ALICO), American International Assurance Company,
Limited, together with American International Assurance Company
(Bermuda) Limited (AIA), Nan Shan Life Insurance Company, Ltd.
(Nan Shan), The Philippine American Life and General Insurance
Company (Philamlife), AIG Edison Life Insurance Company (AIG
Edison Life) and AIG Star Life Insurance Co. Ltd. (AIG Star
Life).

AIG s principal Domestic Life Insurance &
Retirement Services operations are American General Life
Insurance Company (AG Life), The United States Life Insurance
Company in the City of New York (USLIFE), American General Life
and Accident Insurance Company (AGLA and, collectively with AG
Life and USLIFE, the Domestic Life Insurance internal reporting
unit), AIG Annuity Insurance Company (AIG Annuity), The Variable
Annuity Life Insurance Company (VALIC) and AIG Retirement
Services, Inc (AIG SunAmerica and, collectively with AIG Annuity
and VALIC, the Domestic Retirement Services internal reporting
unit).

American International Reinsurance Company (AIRCO) acts
primarily as an internal reinsurance company for AIG s
insurance operations.

Life Insurance & Retirement Services is comprised of
two major groupings of products and services: insurance-oriented
products and services and retirement savings products and
services.

Financial Services: 
 AIG s Financial Services subsidiaries engage in
diversified activities including aircraft and equipment leasing,

AIG 2007
Form  10-K          
147 

Table of Contents   

American International Group, Inc. and Subsidiaries

Notes to Consolidated Financial
Statements    Continued  

2. Segment Information  

Continued 

capital markets, consumer finance and insurance premium finance.

AIG s Aircraft Leasing operations represent the operations
of International Lease Finance Corporation (ILFC), which
generates its revenues primarily from leasing new and used
commercial jet aircraft to domestic and foreign airlines.
Revenues also result from the remarketing of commercial jets for
its own account, and remarketing and fleet management services
for airlines and for financial institutions.

Capital Markets represents the operations of AIGFP, which
engages as principal in a wide variety of financial
transactions, including standard and customized financial
products involving commodities, credit, currencies, energy,
equities and rates and provides credit protection through credit
default swaps on certain super senior tranches of collateralized
debt obligations (CDOs). AIGFP also invests in a diversified
portfolio of securities and principal investments and engages in
borrowing activities that include issuing standard and
structured notes and other securities and entering into
guaranteed investment agreements (GIAs).

Consumer Finance operations include American General Finance
Inc. (AGF) as well as AIG Consumer Finance Group Inc.
(AIGCFG). AGF and AIGCFG provide a wide variety of consumer
finance products, including non-conforming real estate
mortgages, consumer loans, retail sales finance and
credit-related insurance to customers both domestically and
overseas, particularly in emerging and developing markets.

Asset Management:   AIG s
Asset Management operations comprise a wide variety of
investment-related services and investment products. Such
services and products are offered to individuals, pension funds
and institutions globally through AIG s Spread-Based
Investment business, Institutional Asset Management, and
Brokerage Services and Mutual Funds business. Revenues in the
Asset Management segment represent investment income with
respect to spread-based products and management, advisory and
incentive fees.

148         AIG
2007 Form  10-K 

Table of Contents   

American International Group, Inc. and Subsidiaries

2. Segment Information  

Continued 

The following table summarizes
AIG s operations by reporting segment for the years ended
December 31, 2007, 2006 and 2005:  

(a)   
     
     Beginning in 2007, revenues and operating income related to
    certain foreign investment contracts, which were historically
    reported as a component of the Asset Management segment, are now
    reported in the Life Insurance & Retirement Services
    segment, net realized capital gains and losses; including
    derivative gains and losses and foreign exchange transaction
    gains and losses for Financial Services entities other than
    AIGFP and Asset Management entities, which were previously
    reported as part of AIG s Other category, are now included
    in Asset Management and Financial Services revenues and
    operating income; and revenues and operating income related to
    consolidated managed partnerships and funds, which were
    historically reported in the Asset Management segment, are now
    being reported in Consolidation and eliminations. All prior
    periods have been revised to conform to the current
    presentation.  

(b)   
     
     Includes AIG Parent and other operations that are not
    required to be reported separately. The following table presents
    the operating loss for AIG s Other category for the years
    ended December 31, 2007, 2006 and 2005:  

*   
     
     Includes current year catastrophe-related losses from
    unconsolidated entities of $312 million in 2005. There were
    no significant catastrophe-related losses from unconsolidated
    entities in 2007 and 2006.  

AIG 2007
Form  10-K          
149 

Table of Contents   

American International Group, Inc. and Subsidiaries

Notes to Consolidated Financial
Statements    Continued  

2. Segment Information  

Continued 

(c)   
     
     Represents the sum of General Insurance net premiums earned,
    Life Insurance & Retirement Services premiums and other
    considerations, net investment income, Financial Services
    interest, lease and finance charges, Asset Management investment
    income from spread-based products and management, advisory and
    incentive fees, and realized capital gains (losses).  

(d)   
     
     In 2007, 2006 and 2005, includes other-than-temporary
    impairment charges of $4.7 billion, $944 million and
    $598 million, respectively.  

(e)   
     
     Both revenues and operating income (loss) include an
    unrealized market valuation loss of $11.5 billion on
    AIGFP s super senior credit default swap portfolio and an
    other-than-temporary impairment charge of $643 million on
    AIGFP s available for sale investment securities reported
    in other income.  

(f)   
     
     Includes settlement costs of $1.64 billion as described
    in Note 12(a) Litigation and Investigations herein.  

The following table summarizes
AIG s General Insurance operations by major internal
reporting unit for the years ended December 31, 2007, 2006
and 2005:  

(b)  
     
     Includes the effect of out of period adjustments related to
    the accounting for certain interests in unit investment trusts
    (UCITS). For DBG, the effect was an increase of $66 million
    in both revenues and operating income and for Foreign General
    Insurance, the effect was an increase of $424 million in
    both revenues and operating income.  

(c)  
     
     Includes the fourth quarter 2005 increase in net reserves of
    approximately $1.8 billion resulting from the annual review
    of General Insurance loss and loss adjustment reserves.  

(d)  
     
     Includes $291 million of expenses related to changes in
    estimates for uncollectible reinsurance and other premium
    balances, and $100 million of accrued expenses in
    connection with certain workers compensation insurance policies
    written between 1985 and 1996.  

150         AIG
2007 Form  10-K 

Table of Contents   

American International Group, Inc. and Subsidiaries

2. Segment Information  

Continued 

The following table summarizes
AIG s Life Insurance & Retirement Services
operations by major internal reporting unit for the years ended
December 31, 2007, 2006 and 2005:  

(a)  
     
     In 2007, 2006 and 2005, includes other-than-temporary
    impairment charges of $2.8 billion, $641 million and
    $425 million, respectively.  

(b)  
     
     Includes a positive out-of-period adjustment of
    $158 million related to foreign exchange remediation
    activities.  

(c)  
     
     Includes the effect of out-of-period adjustments related to
    the accounting for UCITS in 2006, which increased revenues by
    $240 million and operating income by $169 million.  

AIG 2007
Form  10-K          
151 

Table of Contents   

American International Group, Inc. and Subsidiaries

Notes to Consolidated Financial
Statements    Continued  

2. Segment Information  

Continued 

The following table summarizes
AIG s Financial Services operations by major internal
reporting unit for the years ended December 31, 2007, 2006
and 2005:  

(a)  
     
     Both revenues and operating income include gains (losses)
    from hedging activities that did not qualify for hedge
    accounting treatment under FAS 133, including the related
    foreign exchange gains and losses. In 2007, 2006 and 2005, the
    effect was $(37) million, $(73) million and
    $93 million, respectively. These amounts result primarily
    from interest rate and foreign currency derivatives that are
    effective economic hedges of borrowings. In the second quarter
    of 2007, ILFC began applying hedge accounting to most of its
    derivatives hedging interest rate and foreign exchange risks
    associated with its floating rate and foreign currency
    denominated borrowings.  

(b)  
     
     Both revenues and operating income include gains (losses)
    from hedging activities that did not qualify for hedge
    accounting treatment under FAS 133, including the related
    foreign exchange gains and losses. In 2007, 2006 and 2005, the
    effect was $211 million, $(1.82) billion and
    $2.01 billion, respectively. The year ended
    December 31, 2007 includes a $380 million out of
    period charge to reverse net gains recognized on transfers of
    available for sale securities among legal entities consolidated
    within AIGFP. The year ended December 31, 2006 includes an
    out of period charge of $223 million related to the
    remediation of the material weakness in internal control over
    the accounting for certain derivative transactions under
    FAS 133. In the first quarter of 2007, AIGFP began applying
    hedge accounting for certain of its interest rate swaps and
    foreign currency forward contracts hedging its investments and
    borrowings.  

(c)  
     
     Both revenues and operating income include gains (losses)
    from hedging activities that did not qualify for hedge
    accounting treatment under FAS 133, including the related
    foreign exchange gains and losses. In 2007, 2006 and 2005, the
    effect was $(20) million, $(94) million and
    $75 million, respectively. These amounts result primarily
    from interest rate and foreign currency derivatives that are
    effective economic hedges of borrowings. In the second quarter
    of 2007, AGF began applying hedge accounting to most of its
    derivatives hedging interest rate and foreign exchange risks
    associated with its floating rate and foreign currency
    denominated borrowings.  

(d)  
     
     Represents primarily the sum of aircraft lease rentals from
    ILFC, AIGFP hedged financial positions entered into in
    connection with counterparty transactions, the effect of hedging
    activities that did not qualify for hedge accounting treatment
    under FAS 133, including the related foreign exchange gains
    and losses, and finance charges from consumer finance
    operations.  

(e)   
     
     Interest expense for the Capital Markets business is included
    in Revenues above and in Other income in the consolidated
    statement of income.  

(f)   
     
     Both revenues and operating income (loss) include an
    unrealized market valuation loss of $11.5 billion on
    AIGFP s super senior credit default swap portfolio and an
    other-than-temporary impairment charge of $643 million on
    AIGFP s available for sale investment securities reported
    in other income.  

(g)   
     
     Includes a pre-tax charge of $178 million in connection with
    domestic consumer finance s mortgage banking activities.  

152         AIG
2007 Form  10-K 

Table of Contents   

American International Group, Inc. and Subsidiaries

2. Segment Information  

Continued 

A substantial portion of AIG s
operations is conducted in countries other than the United
States and Canada. The following table summarizes AIG s
operations by major geographic segment. Allocations have been
made on the basis of the location of operations and
assets.  

3. Investments  

(a) Statutory
Deposits:   Cash and securities
with carrying values of $13.6 billion and
$14.8 billion were deposited by AIG s insurance
subsidiaries under requirements of regulatory authorities at
December 31, 2007 and 2006, respectively.

(b) Net Investment
Income:   An analysis of net
investment income follows:

(a)   
     
     Includes short-term investments.  

(b)   
     
     Includes net investment income from securities lending
    activities, representing interest earned on securities lending
    invested collateral offset by interest expense on securities
    lending payable.  

AIG 2007
Form  10-K          
153 

Table of Contents   

American International Group, Inc. and Subsidiaries

Notes to Consolidated Financial
Statements    Continued  

3. Investments  

Continued 

(c) Net Realized Gains and Losses: 

The Net realized capital gains (losses)
and increase (decrease) in unrealized appreciation of AIG s
available for sale investments were as follows:  

Net unrealized gains (losses) included in the consolidated
statement of income from investment securities classified as
trading securities in 2007, 2006 and 2005 were
$1.1 billion, $938 million and $1.1 billion,
respectively.

The gross realized gains and gross
realized losses from sales of AIG s available for sale
securities were as follows:  

(d) Fair Value of Investment Securities: 

The amortized cost or cost and
estimated fair value of AIG s available for sale and held
to maturity securities at December 31, 2007 and 2006 were
as follows:  

154         AIG
2007 Form  10-K 

Table of Contents   

American International Group, Inc. and Subsidiaries

3. Investments  

Continued 

The following table presents the
amortized cost and estimated fair values of AIG s available
for sale and held to maturity fixed maturity securities at
December 31, 2007, by contractual maturity. Actual
maturities may differ from contractual maturities because
certain borrowers have the right to call or prepay certain
obligations with or without call or prepayment
penalties.  

AIG s available for sale
securities are recorded on the consolidated balance sheet at
December 31, 2007 and 2006 as follows:  

(e) Non-Income Producing Invested
Assets:   At December 31,
2007, non-income producing invested assets were insignificant.

(f)  
     
     Gross Unrealized Losses and Estimated Fair Values on
    Investments:  

The following table summarizes the cost
basis and gross unrealized losses on AIG s available for
sale securities, aggregated by major investment category and
length of time that individual securities have been in a
continuous unrealized loss position, at December 31, 2007
and 2006:  

(a)  
     
     For bonds, represents amortized cost.  

(b)  
     
     Primarily relates to the corporate debt category.  

At December 31, 2007, AIG held 37,281 and 2,307 of
individual bond and stock investments, respectively, that were
in an unrealized loss position, of which 9,930 individual
investments were in an unrealized loss position for a continuous
12 months or longer.

AIG recorded other-than-temporary impairment charges of $4.7
billion (including $643 million related to AIGFP recorded
in Other income), $944 million and $598 million in
2007, 2006 and 2005, respectively. See Note 1(c) herein for
AIG s other-than-temporary impairment accounting policy.

AIG 2007
Form  10-K          
155 

Table of Contents   

American International Group, Inc. and Subsidiaries

Notes to Consolidated Financial
Statements    Continued  

3. Investments  

Continued 

(g)   
     
     Other Invested Assets:  

Other invested assets at
December 31, 2007 and 2006 consisted of the
following:  

(a)  
     
     Includes private equity partnerships and hedge funds.  

(b)  
     
     Net of accumulated depreciation of $548 million and
    $585 million in 2007 and 2006, respectively.  

(c)  
     
     Consist primarily of Life Insurance & Retirement Services
    investments in aircraft equipment.  

(d)  
     
     See paragraph (h) below for additional information.  

(e)  
     
     Represents AIG managed partnerships and funds that are
    consolidated.  

At December 31, 2007 and 2006, $7.2 billion and
$5.3 billion of Other invested assets related to available
for sale investments carried at fair value, with unrealized
gains and losses recorded in of Accumulated other comprehensive
income (loss), net of deferred taxes, with almost all of the
remaining investments being accounted for on the equity method
of accounting. All of the investments are subject to impairment
testing (see Note 1(c) herein). The gross unrealized loss
on the investments accounted for as available for sale at
December 31, 2007 was $621 million, the majority of
which represents investments that have been in a continuous
unrealized loss position for less than 12 months.

(h) Investments in Life Settlement Contracts: 

At December 31, 2007, the carrying value of AIG s life
settlement contracts was $1.6 billion, and is included in
Other invested assets in the consolidated balance sheet. These
investments are monitored for impairment on a contract by
contract basis quarterly. During 2007, income recognized on life
settlement contracts previously held in non-consolidated trusts
was $32 million, and is included in net investment income
in the consolidated statement of income.

Further information regarding life
settlement contracts at December 31, 2007 is as
follows:  

At December 31, 2007, the anticipated life insurance
premiums required to keep the life settlement contracts in
force, payable in the ensuing twelve months ending
December 31, 2008 and the four succeeding years ending
December 31, 2012 are $132 million, $141 million,
$149 million, $146 million, and $152 million,
respectively.

In June 2006, AIG restructured its ownership of life settlement
contracts with no effect on the economic substance of these
investments. At the same time, AIG paid $610 million to its
former co-investors to acquire all the remaining interests in
life settlement contracts held in previously non-consolidated
trusts. The life insurers for a small portion of AIG s
consolidated life settlement contracts include AIG subsidiaries.
As a result, amounts related to life insurance issued by AIG
subsidiaries are eliminated in consolidation.

4. Lending activities  

Mortgages and other loans receivable at
December 31, 2007 and 2006 are comprised of the
following:  

156         AIG
2007 Form  10-K 

Table of Contents   

American International Group, Inc. and Subsidiaries

4. Lending activities  

Continued 

4. Lending activities  

Continued 

*  
     
     Primarily consists of foreign mortgage loans.  

Finance receivables, net of unearned
finance charges, were as follows:  

5. Reinsurance  

In the ordinary course of business, AIG s General Insurance
and Life Insurance companies place reinsurance with other
insurance companies in order to provide greater diversification
of AIG s business and limit the potential for losses
arising from large risks. In addition, AIG s General
Insurance subsidiaries assume reinsurance from other insurance
companies.

Supplemental information for gross loss
and benefit reserves net of ceded reinsurance at
December 31, 2007 and 2006 follows:  

*   
     
     Represents gross reinsurance assets, excluding allowances and
    reinsurance recoverable on paid losses.  

AIRCO acts primarily as an internal reinsurance company for
AIG s insurance operations. This facilitates insurance risk
management (retention, volatility, concentrations) and capital
planning locally (branch and subsidiary). It also allows AIG to
pool its insurance risks and purchase reinsurance more
efficiently at a consolidated level, manage global counterparty
risk and relationships and manage global life catastrophe risks.

General Reinsurance  

General reinsurance is effected under reinsurance treaties and
by negotiation on individual risks. Certain of these reinsurance
arrangements consist of excess of loss contracts which protect
AIG against losses over stipulated amounts. Ceded premiums are
considered prepaid reinsurance premiums and are recognized as a
reduction of premiums earned over the contract period in
proportion to the protection received. Amounts recoverable from
general reinsurers are estimated in a manner consistent with the
claims liabilities associated with the reinsurance and presented
as a component of reinsurance assets. Assumed reinsurance
premiums are earned primarily on a pro-rata basis over the terms
of the reinsurance contracts. For both ceded and assumed
reinsurance, risk transfer requirements must be met in order for
reinsurance accounting to apply. If risk transfer requirements
are not met, the contract is accounted for as a deposit,
resulting in the recognition of cash flows under the contract
through a deposit asset or liability and not as revenue or
expense. To meet risk transfer requirements, a reinsurance
contract must include both insurance risk, consisting of both
underwriting and timing risk, and a reasonable possibility of a
significant loss for the assuming entity. Similar risk transfer
criteria are used to determine whether directly written
insurance contracts should be accounted for as insurance or as a
deposit.

AIG 2007
Form  10-K          
157 

Table of Contents   

American International Group, Inc. and Subsidiaries

Notes to Consolidated Financial
Statements    Continued  

5. Reinsurance  

Continued 

General Insurance premiums written and
earned were comprised of the following:  

For the years ended December 31, 2007, 2006 and 2005,
reinsurance recoveries, which reduced loss and loss expenses
incurred, amounted to $9.0 billion, $8.3 billion and
$20.7 billion, respectively.

Life Reinsurance  

Life reinsurance is effected principally under yearly renewable
term treaties. The premiums with respect to these treaties are
considered prepaid reinsurance premiums and are recognized as a
reduction of premiums earned over the contract period in
proportion to the protection provided. Amounts recoverable from
life reinsurers are estimated in a manner consistent with the
assumptions used for the underlying policy benefits and are
presented as a component of reinsurance assets.

Life Insurance & Retirement
Services premiums were comprised of the following:  

Life Insurance recoveries, which reduced death and other
benefits, approximated $1.1 billion, $806 million and
$770 million, respectively, for the years ended
December 31, 2007, 2006 and 2005.

Life Insurance in-force ceded to other
insurance companies was as follows:  

Life Insurance assumed represented less than 0.1 percent,
0.1 percent and 0.8 percent of gross Life Insurance in
force at December 31, 2007, 2006 and 2005, respectively,
and Life Insurance & Retirement Services premiums
assumed represented 0.1 percent, 0.1 percent and
0.3 percent of gross premiums and other considerations for
the years ended December 31, 2007, 2006 and 2005,
respectively.

AIG s Domestic Life Insurance & Retirement
Services operations utilize internal and third-party reinsurance
relationships to manage insurance risks and to facilitate
capital management strategies. Pools of highly-rated third-party
reinsurers are utilized to manage net amounts at risk in excess
of retention limits. AIG s Domestic Life Insurance
companies also cede excess, non-economic reserves carried on a
statutory-basis only on certain term and universal life
insurance policies and certain fixed annuities to an offshore
affiliate.

AIG generally obtains letters of credit in order to obtain
statutory recognition of its intercompany reinsurance
transactions. For this purpose, AIG has a $2.5 billion
syndicated letter of credit facility outstanding at
December 31, 2007, all of which relates to life
intercompany reinsurance transactions.

AIG is also a party to a
 364-day  bilateral
revolving credit facility for an aggregate amount of
$3.2 billion. The facility can be drawn in the form of
letters of credit with terms of up to eight years. At
December 31, 2007, approximately $3.0 billion
principal amount of letters of credit are outstanding under this
facility, of which approximately $2.1 billion relates to
life intercompany reinsurance transactions. AIG has also
obtained approximately $377 million of letters of credit on
a bilateral basis.

Reinsurance Security  

AIG s third-party reinsurance arrangements do not relieve
AIG from its direct obligation to its insureds. Thus, a credit
exposure exists with respect to both general and life
reinsurance ceded to the extent that any reinsurer fails to meet
the obligations assumed under any reinsurance agreement. AIG
holds substantial collateral as security under related
reinsurance agreements in the form of funds, securities, and/or
letters of credit. A provision has been recorded for estimated
unrecoverable reinsurance. AIG has been largely successful in
prior recovery efforts.

AIG evaluates the financial condition of its reinsurers and
establishes limits per reinsurer through AIG s Credit Risk
Committee. AIG believes that no exposure to a single reinsurer
represents an inappropriate concentration of risk to AIG, nor is
AIG s business substantially dependent upon any single
reinsurer.

158         AIG
2007 Form  10-K 

Table of Contents   

American International Group, Inc. and Subsidiaries

6. Deferred Policy Acquisition
Costs  

The following reflects the policy
acquisition costs deferred for amortization against future
income and the related amortization charged to income for
General Insurance and Life Insurance & Retirement
Services operations:  

(a)   
     
     In 2007, amortization expense was reduced by
    $733 million related to changes in actuarial estimates,
    which was mostly offset in incurred policy losses and
    benefits.  

(b)   
     
     In 2007, includes the cumulative effect of the adoption of
    SOP  05-1  of
    $(118) million and a balance sheet reclassification of
    $189 million.  

(c)   
     
     Includes $5 million and $(720) million at
    December 31, 2007 and 2006, respectively, related to the
    effect of net unrealized gains and losses on available for sale
    securities.  

Included in the above table is the VOBA, an intangible asset
recorded during purchase accounting, which is amortized in a
manner similar to DAC. Amortization of VOBA was
$213 million, $239 million and $291 million in
2007, 2006 and 2005, respectively, while the unamortized balance
was $1.86 billion, $1.98 billion and
$2.14 billion at December 31, 2007, 2006 and 2005,
respectively. The percentage of the unamortized balance of VOBA
at 2007 expected to be amortized in 2008 through 2012 by year
is: 11.7 percent, 10.2 percent, 8.4 percent,
6.6 percent and 5.9 percent, respectively, with
57.2 percent being amortized after five years. These
projections are based on current estimates for investment,
persistency, mortality and morbidity assumptions. The DAC
amortization charged to income includes the increase or decrease
of amortization for
FAS  97-related 
realized capital gains (losses), primarily in the Domestic
Retirement Services business. In 2007, 2006 and 2005, the rate
of amortization expense decreased by $291 million,
$90 million and $46 million, respectively.

There were no impairments of DAC or VOBA for the years ended
December 31, 2007, 2006 and 2005.

7. Variable Interest
Entities  

FIN 46R,  Consolidation of Variable Interest
Entities  clarifies the consolidation accounting for
certain entities in which equity investors do not have the
characteristics of a controlling financial interest or do not
have sufficient equity that is at risk which would allow the
entity to finance its activities without additional subordinated
financial support. FIN 46R recognizes that consolidation
based on majority voting interest should not apply to certain
types of entities that are defined as VIEs. A VIE is
consolidated by its primary beneficiary, which is the party that
absorbs a majority of the expected losses or a majority of the
expected residual returns of the VIE, or both.

AIG, in the normal course of business, is involved with various
VIEs. In some cases, AIG has participated to varying degrees in
the design of the entity. AIG s involvement in VIEs varies
from being a passive investor to managing and structuring the
activities of the VIE. AIG engages in transactions with VIEs to
manage its investment needs, obtain funding as well as
facilitate client needs through a global network of operating
subsidiaries comprising AIG Global Asset Management Holdings
Corp. and its subsidiaries and affiliated companies
(collectively, AIG Investments) and AIGFP. AIG purchases debt
securities (rated and unrated) and equity interests issued by
VIEs, makes loans and provides other credit support to VIEs,
enters into insurance and reinsurance transactions with VIEs,
enters into leasing arrangements with VIEs, enters into
derivative transactions with VIEs through AIGFP and acts as the
collateral manager of VIEs through AIG Investments and AIGFP.
Obligations to outside interest holders in VIEs consolidated by
AIG are reported as liabilities in the consolidated financial
statements. These interest holders generally have recourse only
to the assets

AIG 2007
Form  10-K          
159 

Table of Contents   

American International Group, Inc. and Subsidiaries

Notes to Consolidated Financial
Statements    Continued  

7. Variable Interest
Entities  

Continued 

and cash flows of the VIEs and do not have recourse to AIG,
except when AIG has provided a guarantee to the VIE s
interest holders.

AIG determines whether an entity is a VIE, who the variable
interest holders are, and which party is the primary beneficiary
of the VIE by performing an analysis of the design of the VIE
that includes a review of, among other factors, its capital
structure, contractual relationships and terms, nature of the
entity s operations and purpose, nature of the
entity s interests issued, AIG s interests in the
entity which either create or absorb variability and related
party relationships. AIG consolidates a VIE when all of
AIG s interests in the VIE, when combined, absorb a
majority of the expected losses or a majority of the expected
residual returns of the VIE, or both. Assets held by VIEs which
are currently consolidated because AIG is primary beneficiary
(except for those VIEs where AIG also owns a majority voting
interest), approximated $27.0 billion and $9.1 billion at
December 31, 2007 and 2006, respectively. These consolidated
assets are reflected in AIG s consolidated balance sheet as
Investments and financial services assets.

In addition to the VIEs that are consolidated in accordance with
FIN 46R, the Company has significant variable interests in
certain other VIEs that are not consolidated because the Company
is not the primary beneficiary. AIG applies quantitative and
qualitative measures in identifying whether it is a primary
beneficiary of a VIE and whether it holds a significant variable
interest in a VIE.

For all VIEs in which it has a significant variable interest,
including those in which it is the primary beneficiary, AIG
reconsiders if it is the current primary beneficiary whenever a
VIE s governing documents or contractual arrangements are
changed in a manner that reallocates between the primary
beneficiary and other unrelated parties, the obligation to
absorb expected losses or right to receive expected residual
returns. It also reconsiders its role as primary beneficiary
when it sells or otherwise disposes of all or part of its
variable interests in a VIE or when it acquires additional
variable interests in a VIE. AIG does not reconsider whether it
is a primary beneficiary solely as the result of operating
losses incurred by an entity. Assets of VIEs where AIG has a
significant variable interest and does not consolidate the VIE
because AIG is not the primary beneficiary, approximated
$275.1 billion at December 31, 2007. AIG s
maximum exposure to loss from its involvement with these
consolidated VIEs approximated $44.6 billion at December
31, 2007. For this purpose, maximum loss is considered to be the
notional amount of credit lines, guarantees and other credit
support, and liquidity facilities, the notional amounts of
credit default swaps and certain total return swaps, and the
amount invested in the debt or equity issued by the VIEs.

Entities for which AIG is the primary beneficiary and
consolidates or in which AIG has a significant variable interest
are described below.

Asset Management

In certain instances, AIG Investments acts as the collateral
manager or general partner of an investment fund, collateralized
debt obligation (CDO), collateralized loan obligation (CLO),
private equity fund or hedge fund. Such entities are typically
registered investment companies or qualify for the specialized
investment company accounting in accordance with the AICPA Audit
and Accounting Guide - Investment Companies. In CDO and CLO
transactions, AIG establishes a trust or other special purpose
entity that purchases a portfolio of assets such as bank loans,
corporate debt, or non-performing credits and issues trust
certificates or debt securities that represent interests in the
portfolio of assets. These transactions can be cash-based or
synthetic and are actively or passively managed. For investment
partnerships, hedge funds and private equity funds, AIG acts as
the general partner or manager of the fund and is responsible
for carrying out the investment mandate of the VIE. Often,
AIG s insurance operations participate in these AIG managed
structures as a passive investor in the debt or equity issued by
the VIE. Typically, AIG does not provide any guarantees to the
investors in the VIE.

AIG Investments is an investor in various real estate
investments. These investments are typically with unaffiliated
third-party developers via a partnership or limited liability
company structure. Some of these entities are VIEs. The
activities of these VIEs principally consist of the development
or redevelopment of all major types of commercial (retail,
office, industrial, logistics parks, mixed use, etc.) and
residential real estate. AIG s involvement varies from
being a passive equity investor to actively managing the
activities of the VIE.

In addition to changes in a VIE s governing documentation
or capitalization structure, AIG reconsiders its decision with
respect to whether it is the primary beneficiary for these VIEs,
when AIG purchases, or when a VIE sells or otherwise disposes
of, variable interests in the CDO, CLO, investment, partnership,
hedge fund or private equity fund to other unrelated parties.

SunAmerica Affordable Housing Partnerships

SunAmerica Affordable Housing Partners, Inc.
(SAAHP) organizes limited partnerships (investment
partnerships) that are considered to be VIEs, and that are
consolidated by AIG when AIG has determined that it is the
primary beneficiary. The investment partnerships invest as
limited partners in operating partnerships that develop and
operate affordable housing qualifying for federal tax credits
and a few market rate properties across the United States. The
general partners in the operating partnerships are almost
exclusively unaffiliated third-party developers. AIG does not
normally consolidate an operating partnership if the general
partner is an unaffiliated person. Through approximately
1,200 partnerships, SAAHP has invested in developments with
approximately 157,000 apartment units nationwide, and has

160         AIG
2007 Form  10-K 

Table of Contents   

American International Group, Inc. and Subsidiaries

7. Variable Interest
Entities  

Continued 

syndicated over $7 billion in partnership equity since 1991
to other investors who will receive, among other benefits, tax
credits under certain sections of the Internal Revenue Code. AIG
Retirement Services, Inc. functions as the general partner in
certain investment partnerships and acts both as a credit
enhancer in certain transactions, through differing structures
with respect to funding development costs for the operating
partnerships, and as guarantor that investors will receive the
tax benefits projected at the time of syndication. AIG
Retirement Services, Inc. consolidates these investment
partnerships as a result of the guarantee provided to the
investors. As part of their incentive compensation, certain key
SAAHP employees have been awarded residual cash flow interests
in the partnerships, subject to certain vesting requirements.
The operating income of SAAHP is reported, along with other
SunAmerica partnership income, as a component of AIG s
Asset Management segment.

Insurance Investments

As part of its investment activities, AIG s insurance
operations invest in obligations which include debt and equity
securities and interests issued by VIEs. These investments
include investments in AIG sponsored and non-sponsored
investment funds, hedge funds, private equity funds, and
structured financing arrangements. The investments in these VIEs
allow AIG s insurance entities to purchase assets permitted
by insurance regulations while maximizing their return on these
assets. AIG s insurance operations typically are not
involved in the design or establishment of the VIE, nor do they
actively participate in the management of the VIE.

In addition to changes in a VIE s governing documentation
or capitalization structure, AIG reconsiders its position as to
whether it is the primary beneficiary as the result of
investments in these VIEs when AIG purchases or sells VIE issued
debt and equity interests to other unrelated parties.

AIGFP

The variable interests that AIGFP may hold in VIEs include debt
securities, equity interests, loans, derivative instruments and
other credit support arrangements. Transactions associated with
VIEs include an asset-backed commercial paper conduit, asset
securitizations, collateralized debt obligations, investment
vehicles and other structured financial transactions. AIGFP
engages in these transactions to facilitate client needs for
investment purposes and to obtain funding.

AIGFP invests in preferred securities issued by VIEs.
Additionally, AIGFP establishes VIEs that issue preferred
interests to third parties and uses the proceeds to provide
financing to AIGFP subsidiaries. In certain instances, AIGFP
consolidates these VIEs. Consistent with FIN 46R
requirements, AIGFP reviews any changes in its holdings of a
VIEs preferred stock investment as part of its reconsideration
review to determine a VIE s primary beneficiary. In
addition, AIG reviews all changes in such VIEs  governing
documentation or capitalization structures as part of the
determination of whether there is a change in the VIEs 
primary beneficiaries.

AIGFP is the primary beneficiary of an asset-backed commercial
paper conduit with which it entered into several total return
swaps covering all the conduit s assets that absorb the
majority of the expected losses of the entity. The assets of the
conduit serve as collateral for the conduit s obligations.
AIGFP is also the primary beneficiary of several structured
financing transactions in which AIGFP holds the first loss
position either by investing in the equity of the VIE or
implicitly through a lending or derivative arrangement. These
VIEs are subject to the reconsideration event reviews noted
above.

In certain instances, AIGFP enters into liquidity facilities
with various SPEs when AIGFP provides liquidity to the SPE in
the form of a guarantee, derivative, or a letter of credit and
does not consolidate the VIE. AIGFP also executes various swap
and option transactions with VIEs. Such contractual arrangements
are done in the ordinary course of business. Typically, interest
rate derivatives such as interest rate swaps and options
executed with VIEs are not deemed to be variable interests or
significant variable interests because the underlying is an
observable market interest rate and AIGFP as the derivative
counterparty to the VIE is senior to the debt and equity holders.

In 2007, AIGFP sponsored its only structured investment vehicle
(SIV) which invests in variable rate, investment-grade debt
securities. The SIV is a VIE because is does not have sufficient
equity to operate without subordinated capital notes which serve
as equity though they are legally debt instruments. The capital
notes absorb losses prior to the senior debt. Based on the sale
of more than 88 percent of its capital notes to unrelated
third-party investors and the continued holding by those
investors of their capital notes, AIGFP is not the primary
beneficiary of the SIV. AIGFP reviews its primary beneficiary
position when the governing document or capital structure
changes or the amount of senior or capital note holdings change.
Based on a change in the governing documents under which AIGFP
committed to provide short-term funding to the SIV, as
necessary, a quantitative analysis performed under FIN 46R
as of December 31, 2007 showed that AIGFP is not the
primary beneficiary. This outcome is a result of the high credit
quality of the assets and the fact that 85 percent of
credit losses, if any, would be shared by other capital note
holders. At December 31, 2007 assets of this unconsolidated
SIV totaled $2.4 billion. AIGFP s invested assets at
December 31, 2007 included $1.7 billion of securities
purchased under agreements to resell and commercial paper and
medium-term and capital notes issued by this entity.

AIGFP has entered into transactions with VIEs that are used, in
part, to provide tax planning strategies to investors and/or
AIGFP through an enhanced yield investment security. These
structures typically provide financing to AIGFP and/or the
investor at enhanced rates. AIGFP may be either the primary
beneficiary of and consolidate the VIE, or may be a significant
variable interest holder in the VIE.

AIG 2007
Form  10-K          
161 

Table of Contents   

American International Group, Inc. and Subsidiaries

Notes to Consolidated Financial
Statements    Continued  

8. Derivatives and Hedge
Accounting  

AIG uses derivatives and other financial instruments as part of
its financial risk management programs and as part of its
investment operations. AIGFP also transacts in derivatives as a
dealer.

Derivatives, as defined in FAS 133, are financial arrangements
among two or more parties with returns linked to or
 derived  from some underlying equity, debt, commodity
or other asset, liability, or foreign exchange rate or other
index or the occurrence of a specified payment event. Derivative
payments may be based on interest rates, exchange rates, prices
of certain securities, commodities, or financial or commodity
indices or other variables.

Unless subject to a scope exclusion, AIG carries all derivatives
on the consolidated balance sheet at fair value. The changes in
fair value of the derivative transactions of AIGFP are presented
as a component of AIG s operating income.

AIGFP 

AIGFP, in the ordinary course of operations and as principal,
structures and enters into derivative transactions to meet the
needs of counterparties who may be seeking to hedge certain
aspects of such counterparties  operations or obtain a
desired financial exposure. In most cases AIGFP does not hedge
its exposures related to the credit default swaps it has
written. AIGFP also enters into derivative transactions to
mitigate risk in its exposures (interest rates, currencies,
commodities, credit and equities) arising from such
transactions. Such instruments are carried at market or fair
value, whichever is appropriate, and are reflected on the
balance sheet in  Unrealized gain on swaps, options and
forward transactions  and  Unrealized loss on swaps,
options and forward contracts. 

Beginning in 2007, AIGFP designated certain interest rate swaps
as fair value hedges of the benchmark interest rate risk on
certain of its interest bearing financial assets and
liabilities. In these hedging relationships, AIG is hedging its
fixed rate available for sale securities and fixed rate
borrowings. AIGFP also designated foreign currency forward
contracts as fair value hedges for changes in spot foreign
exchange rates of the non-U.S. dollar denominated available for
sale debt securities. Under these strategies, all or portions of
individual or multiple derivatives may be designated against a
single hedged item.

At inception of each hedging relationship, AIGFP performs and
documents its prospective assessments of hedge effectiveness to
demonstrate that the hedge is expected to be highly effective.
For hedges of interest rate risk, AIGFP uses regression to
demonstrate the hedge is highly effective, while it uses the
periodic dollar offset method for its foreign currency hedges.
AIGFP uses the periodic dollar offset method to assess whether
its hedging relationships were highly effective on a
retrospective basis. The prospective and retrospective
assessments are updated on a daily basis. The passage of time
component of the hedging instruments and the forward points on
foreign currency hedges are excluded from the assessment of
hedge effectiveness and measurement of hedge ineffectiveness.
AIGFP does not utilize the shortcut, matched terms or equivalent
methods to assess hedge effectiveness.

The change in fair value of the derivative that qualifies under
the requirements of FAS 133 as a fair value hedge is recorded in
current period earnings along with the gain or loss on the
hedged item for the hedged risk. For interest rate hedges, the
adjustments to the carrying value of the hedged items are
amortized into income using the effective yield method over the
remaining life of the hedged item. Amounts excluded from the
assessment of hedge effectiveness are recognized in current
period earnings.

For the year ended December 31, 2007, AIGFP recognized net
losses of $0.7 million in earnings, representing hedge
ineffectiveness, and also recognized net losses of
$456 million related to the portion of the hedging
instruments excluded from the assessment of hedge effectiveness.

AIGFP s derivative transactions involving interest rate
swap transactions generally involve the exchange of fixed and
floating rate interest payment obligations without the exchange
of the underlying notional amounts. AIGFP typically becomes a
principal in the exchange of interest payments between the
parties and, therefore, is exposed to counterparty credit risk
and may be exposed to loss, if counterparties default. Currency,
commodity, and equity swaps are similar to interest rate swaps,
but involve the exchange of specific currencies or cashflows
based on the underlying commodity, equity securities or indices.
Also, they may involve the exchange of notional amounts at the
beginning and end of the transaction. Swaptions are options
where the holder has the right but not the obligation to enter
into a swap transaction or cancel an existing swap transaction.
At December 31, 2007, the aggregate notional amount of
AIGFP s outstanding swap transactions approximated
$2,133 billion, primarily related to interest rate swaps of
approximately $1,167 billion.

AIGFP follows a policy of minimizing interest rate, currency,
commodity, and equity risks associated with securities available
for sale by entering into internal offsetting positions, on a
security by security basis within its derivatives portfolio,
thereby offsetting a significant portion of the unrealized
appreciation and depreciation. In addition, to reduce its credit
risk, AIGFP has entered into credit derivative transactions with
respect to $82 million of securities available for sale to
economically hedge its credit risk. As previously discussed,
these economic offsets did not meet the hedge accounting
requirements of FAS 133 and, therefore, are recorded in
Other income in the Consolidated Statement of Income.

Notional amount represents a standard of measurement of the
volume of swaps business of Capital Markets operations. Notional
amount is not a quantification of market risk or credit risk and
is not recorded on the consolidated balance sheet. Notional
amounts generally represent those amounts used to calculate
contractual cash flows to be exchanged and are not paid or
received, except for certain contracts such as currency swaps.

The timing and the amount of cash flows relating to Capital
Markets foreign exchange forwards and exchange traded futures
and options contracts are determined by each of the respective
contractual agreements.

162         AIG
2007 Form  10-K 

Table of Contents   

American International Group, Inc. and Subsidiaries

8. Derivatives and Hedge
Accounting  

Continued 

The following table presents the
notional amounts by remaining maturity of Capital Markets 
interest rate, credit default and currency swaps and swaptions
derivatives portfolio at December 31, 2007 and
2006:  

*   
     
     Notional amount is not representative of either market risk
    or credit risk and is not recorded in the consolidated balance
    sheet.  

Futures and forward contracts are contracts that obligate the
holder to sell or purchase foreign currencies, commodities or
financial indices in which the seller/purchaser agrees to
make/take delivery at a specified future date of a specified
instrument, at a specified price or yield. Options are contracts
that allow the holder of the option to purchase or sell the
underlying commodity, currency or index at a specified price and
within, or at, a specified period of time. As a writer of
options, AIGFP generally receives an option premium and then
manages the risk of any unfavorable change in the value of the
underlying commodity, currency or index by entering into
offsetting transactions with third-party market participants.
Risks arise as a result of movements in current market prices
from contracted prices, and the potential inability of the
counterparties to meet their obligations under the contracts.

The following table presents Capital
Markets futures, forward and option contracts portfolio by
maturity and type of derivative at December 31, 2007 and
2006:  

AIGFP Credit Default Swaps 

AIGFP enters into credit derivative transactions in the ordinary
course of its business. The majority of AIGFP s credit
derivatives require AIGFP to provide credit protection on a
designated portfolio of loans or debt securities. AIGFP provides
such credit protection on a  second loss  basis, under
which AIGFP s payment obligations arise only after credit
losses in the designated portfolio exceed a specified threshold
amount or level of  first losses.  The threshold
amount of credit losses that must be realized before AIGFP has
any payment obligation is negotiated by AIGFP for each
transaction to provide that the likelihood of any payment
obligation by AIGFP under each transaction is remote. The
underwriting process for these derivatives included assumptions
of severely stressed recessionary market scenarios to minimize
the likelihood of realized losses under these obligations.

In certain cases, the credit risk associated with a designated
portfolio is tranched into different layers of risk, which are
then analyzed and rated by the credit rating agencies.
Typically, there will be an equity layer covering the first
credit losses in respect of the portfolio up to a specified
percentage of the total portfolio, and then successive layers
ranging from generally a BBB-rated layer to one or more
AAA-rated layers. In transactions that are rated with respect to
the risk layer or tranche that is immediately junior to the
threshold level above which AIGFP s payment obligation
would generally arise, a significant majority are rated AAA by
the rating agencies. In transactions that are not rated, AIGFP
applies the same risk criteria for setting the threshold level
for its payment obligations. Therefore, the risk layer assumed
by AIGFP with respect to the designated portfolio in these
transactions is often called the  super senior  risk
layer, defined as the layer of credit risk senior to a risk
layer that has been rated AAA by the credit rating agencies, or
if the transaction is not rated, equivalent thereto.

AIG 2007
Form  10-K          
163 

Table of Contents   

American International Group, Inc. and Subsidiaries

Notes to Consolidated Financial
Statements    Continued  

8. Derivatives and Hedge
Accounting  

Continued 

At December 31, 2007 and 2006, the
notional amounts and unrealized market valuation loss of the
super senior credit default swap portfolio by asset classes were
as follows:  

(a)   
     
     Predominantly represent transactions written to facilitate
    regulatory capital relief.  

(b)   
     
     Approximately $61.4 billion, in notional amount, of the
    multi-sector CDO pools includes some exposure to
    U.S. subprime mortgages.  

Approximately $379 billion of the $527 billion in
notional exposure of AIGFP s super senior credit default
swap portfolio as of December 31, 2007 represents
derivatives written for financial institutions, principally in
Europe, for the purpose of providing them with regulatory
capital relief rather than risk mitigation. In exchange for a
minimum guaranteed fee, the counterparties receive credit
protection in respect of portfolios of various debt securities
or loans they own, thus improving their regulatory capital
position. These derivatives are generally expected to terminate
at no additional cost to the counterparty upon the
counterparty s adoption of models compliant with the
Basel II Accord. AIG expects that the majority of these
transactions will terminate within the next 12 to
18 months. As of February 26, 2008, approximately
$54 billion in notional exposures have either been
terminated or are in the process of being terminated. AIGFP was
not required to make any payments as part of these terminations
and in certain cases was paid a fee upon termination. In light
of this experience to date and after other comprehensive
analyses, AIG did not recognize an unrealized market valuation
adjustment for this regulatory capital relief portfolio for the
year ended December 31, 2007. AIG will continue to assess
the valuation of this portfolio and monitor developments in the
marketplace. There can be no assurance that AIG will not
recognize unrealized market valuation losses from this portfolio
in future periods. In addition to writing credit protection on
the super senior risk layer on designated portfolios of loans or
debt securities, AIGFP also wrote protection on tranches below
the super senior risk layer. At December 31, 2007 the
notional amount of the credit default swaps in the regulatory
capital relief portfolio written on tranches below the super
senior risk layer was $5.8 billion, with an estimated fair
value of $(25) million.

AIGFP has also written credit protection on the super senior
risk layer of diversified portfolios of investment grade
corporate debt, collateralized loan obligations (CLOs) and
multi-sector CDOs. AIGFP is at risk only on the super senior
portion related to a diversified portfolio of credits referenced
to loans or debt securities. The super senior risk portion is
the last tranche to suffer losses after significant
subordination. Credit losses would have to erode all tranches
junior to the super senior tranche before AIGFP would suffer any
realized losses. The subordination level required for each
transaction is determined based on internal modeling and
analysis of the pool of underlying assets and is not dependent
on ratings determined by the rating agencies. While the credit
default swaps written on corporate debt obligations are cash
settled, the majority of the credit default swaps written on
CDOs and CLOs require physical settlement. Under a physical
settlement arrangement, AIGFP would be required to purchase the
referenced super senior note obligation at par in the event of a
non-payment on that security.

Certain of these credit derivatives are subject to collateral
posting provisions. These provisions differ among counterparties
and asset classes. In the case of most of the multi-sector CDO
transactions, the amount of collateral required is determined
based on the change in value of the underlying cash security
that represents the super senior risk layer subject to credit
protection, and not the change in value of the super senior
credit derivative.

AIGFP is indirectly exposed to U.S. residential mortgage
subprime collateral in the CDO portfolios, the majority of which
is from 2004 and 2005 vintages. However, certain of the CDOs on
which AIGFP provided credit protection permit the collateral
manager to substitute collateral during the reinvestment period,
subject to certain restrictions. As a result, in certain
transactions, U.S. residential mortgage subprime collateral of
2006 and 2007 vintages has been added to the collateral pools.
At December 31, 2007, U.S. residential mortgage subprime
collateral of 2006 and 2007 vintages comprised approximately 4.9
percent of the total collateral pools underlying the entire
portfolio of CDOs with credit protection.

AIGFP has written maturity-shortening puts that allow the
holders of the securities issued by certain multi-sector CDOs to
treat the securities as eligible short-term 2a-7 investments
under the Investment Company Act of 1940 (2a-7 Puts). Holders of
securities are permitted, in certain circumstances, to tender
their securities to the issuers at par. If an issuer s
remarketing agent is unable to resell the securities so
tendered, AIGFP must purchase the securities at par as long as
the securities have not experienced a default. During 2007,
AIGFP repurchased securities with a principal amount of
approximately $754 million pursuant to these obligations.
In certain transactions, AIGFP has contracted with third parties
to provide liquidity for the notes if they are put to AIGFP for
up to a three-year period. Such liquidity facilities totaled
approximately $3 billion at December 31, 2007. As of
February 26, 2008, AIGFP has not utilized these liquidity
facilities. At December 31, 2007, AIGFP had approximately
$6.5 billion of notional exposure on 2a-7 Puts, included as
part of the multi-sector CDO portfolio discussed herein.

As of January 31, 2008, a significant majority of
AIGFP s super senior exposures continued to have tranches
below AIGFP s attachment point that have been explicitly
rated AAA or, in AIGFP s judgment, would have been rated
AAA had they been rated. AIGFP s portfolio of credit
default swaps undergoes regular

164         AIG
2007 Form  10-K 

Table of Contents   

American International Group, Inc. and Subsidiaries

8. Derivatives and Hedge
Accounting  

Continued 

monitoring, modeling and analysis and contains protection
through collateral subordination.

AIGFP accounts for its credit default swaps in accordance with
FAS 133  Accounting For Derivative Instruments and
Hedging Activities  and Emerging Issues Task Force 02-3,
 Issues Involved in Accounting for Derivative Contracts
Held for Trading Purposes and Contracts Involved in Energy
Trading and Risk Management Activities 
(EITF  02-3).  In
accordance with
EITF  02-3,  AIGFP
does not recognize income in earnings at the inception of each
transaction because the inputs to value these instruments are
not derivable from observable market data.

The valuation of the super senior credit derivatives has become
increasingly challenging given the limitation on the
availability of market observable information due to the lack of
trading and price transparency in the structured finance market,
particularly in the fourth quarter of 2007. These market
conditions have increased the reliance on management estimates
and judgments in arriving at an estimate of fair value for
financial reporting purposes. Further, disparities in the
valuation methodologies employed by market participants and the
varying judgments reached by such participants when assessing
volatile markets has increased the likelihood that the various
parties to these instruments may arrive at significantly
different estimates as to their fair values.

AIGFP s valuation methodologies for the super senior credit
default swap portfolio have evolved in response to the
deteriorating market conditions and the lack of sufficient
market observable information. AIG has sought to calibrate the
model to market information and to review the assumptions of the
model on a regular basis.

AIGFP employs a modified version of the BET model to value its
super senior credit default swap portfolio, including the 2a-7
Puts. The BET model utilizes default probabilities derived from
credit spreads implied from market prices for the individual
securities included in the underlying collateral pools securing
the CDOs. AIGFP obtained prices on these securities from the CDO
collateral managers.

The BET model also utilizes diversity scores, weighted average
lives, recovery rates and discount rates. The determination of
some of these inputs require the use of judgment and estimates,
particularly in the absence of market observable data. AIGFP
also employed a Monte Carlo simulation to assist in quantifying
the effect on valuation of the CDO of the unique features of the
CDO s structure such as triggers that divert cash flows to
the most senior level of the capital structure.

The credit default swaps written by AIGFP cover only the failure
of payment on the super senior CDO security. AIGFP does not own
the securities in the CDO collateral pool. The credit spreads
implied from the market prices of the securities in the CDO
collateral pool incorporate the risk of default (credit risk),
the market s price for liquidity risk and in distressed
markets, the risk aversion costs. Spreads on credit derivatives
tend to be narrower because, unlike in the case of investing in
a bond, there is no need to fund the position (except when an
actual credit event occurs). In times of illiquidity, the
difference between spreads on cash securities and derivative
instruments (the  negative basis ) may be even wider
for high quality assets. AIGFP was unable to reliably verify
this negative basis due to the accelerating severe dislocation,
illiquidity and lack of trading in the asset backed securities
market during the fourth quarter of 2007 and early 2008. The
valuations produced by the BET model therefore represent the
valuations of the underlying super senior CDO cash securities
with no recognition of the effect of the basis differential on
that valuation.

AIGFP also considered the valuation of the super senior CDO
securities provided by third parties, including counterparties
to these transactions, and made adjustments as necessary.

As described above, AIGFP uses numerous assumptions in
determining its best estimate of the fair value of the super
senior credit default swap portfolio. The most significant
assumption utilized in developing the estimate is the pricing of
the securities within the CDO collateral pools. If the actual
pricing of the securities within the collateral pools differs
from the pricing used in estimating the fair value of the super
senior credit default swap portfolio, there is potential for
significant variation in the fair value estimate.

In the case of credit default swaps written on investment grade
corporate debt and CLOs, AIGFP estimated the value of its
obligations by reference to the relevant market indices or third
party quotes on the underlying super senior tranches where
available.

AIGFP monitors the underlying portfolios to determine whether
the credit loss experience for any particular portfolio has
caused the likelihood of AIGFP having a payment obligation under
the transaction to be greater than super senior risk.

Other Derivative Users 

AIG and its subsidiaries (other than AIGFP) also use derivatives
and other instruments as part of their financial risk management
programs. Interest rate derivatives (such as interest rate
swaps) are used to manage interest rate risk associated with
investments in fixed income securities, commercial paper
issuances, medium- and long-term note offerings, and other
interest rate sensitive assets and liabilities. In addition,
foreign exchange derivatives (principally cross currency swaps,
forwards and options) are used to economically mitigate risk
associated with non-U.S. dollar denominated debt, net capital
exposures and foreign exchange transactions. The derivatives are
effective economic hedges of the exposures they are meant to
offset.

In 2007, AIG and its subsidiaries other than AIGFP designated
certain derivatives as either fair value or cash flow hedges of
their debt. The fair value hedges included (i) interest
rate swaps that were designated as hedges of the change in the
fair value of fixed

AIG 2007
Form  10-K          
165 

Table of Contents   

American International Group, Inc. and Subsidiaries

Notes to Consolidated Financial
Statements    Continued  

8. Derivatives and Hedge
Accounting  

Continued 

rate debt attributable to changes in the benchmark interest rate
and (ii) foreign currency swaps designated as hedges of the
change in fair value of foreign currency denominated debt
attributable to changes in foreign exchange rates and/or the
benchmark interest rate. With respect to the cash flow hedges,
(i) interest rate swaps were designated as hedges of the
changes in cash flows on floating rate debt attributable to
changes in the benchmark interest rate, and (ii) foreign
currency swaps were designated as hedges of changes in cash
flows on foreign currency denominated debt attributable to
changes in the benchmark interest rate and foreign exchange
rates.

AIG assesses, both at the hedge s inception and on an
ongoing basis, whether the derivatives used in hedging
transactions are highly effective in offsetting changes in fair
values or cash flows of hedged items. Regression analysis is
employed to assess the effectiveness of these hedges both on a
prospective and retrospective basis. AIG does not utilize the
shortcut, matched terms or equivalent methods to assess hedge
effectiveness.

The change in fair value of derivatives designated and effective
as fair value hedges along with the gain or loss on the hedged
item are recorded in current period earnings. Upon
discontinuation of hedge accounting, the cumulative adjustment
to the carrying value of the hedged item resulting from changes
in the benchmark interest rate or exchange rate is amortized
into income using the effective yield method over the remaining
life of the hedged item. Amounts excluded from the assessment of
hedge effectiveness are recognized in current period earnings.
During the year ended December 31, 2007, AIG recognized a
loss of $1 million in earnings related to the ineffective
portion of the hedging instruments. During the year ended
December 31, 2007, AIG also recognized gains of
$3 million related to the change in the hedging instruments
forward points excluded from the assessment of hedge
effectiveness.

The effective portion of the change in fair value of a
derivative qualifying as a cash flow hedge is recorded in
Accumulated other comprehensive income (loss), until earnings
are affected by the variability of cash flows in the hedged
item. The ineffective portion of these hedges is recorded in net
realized capital gains (losses). During the year ended
December 31, 2007, AIG recognized gains of $1 million
in earnings representing hedge ineffectiveness. At
December 31, 2007, $36 million of the deferred net
loss in Accumulated other comprehensive income is expected to be
recognized in earnings during the next 12 months. All
components of the derivatives  gains and losses were
included in the assessment of hedge effectiveness. There were no
instances of the discontinuation of hedge accounting in 2007.

In addition to hedging activities, AIG also uses derivative
instruments with respect to investment operations, which
include, among other things, credit default swaps, and
purchasing investments with embedded derivatives, such as equity
linked notes and convertible bonds. All changes in the fair
value of these derivatives are recorded in earnings. AIG
bifurcates an embedded derivative where:  (i)  the
economic characteristics of the embedded instruments are not
clearly and closely related to those of the remaining components
of the financial instrument;  (ii)  the contract that
embodies both the embedded derivative instrument and the host
contract is not remeasured at fair value; and
 (iii)  a separate instrument with the same terms as
the embedded instrument meets the definition of a derivative
under FAS 133.

9. Reserve for Losses and Loss
Expenses and Future Life Policy Benefits and Policyholders 
Contract Deposits  

The following analysis provides a
reconciliation of the activity in the reserve for losses and
loss expenses:  

(a)  
     
     Reflects the opening balance with respect to the acquisition
    of W Ba and the Central Insurance Co., Ltd. in 2007 and
    2006, respectively.  

(b)  
     
     Includes a fourth quarter charge of $1.8 billion
    resulting from the annual review of General Insurance loss and
    loss adjustment reserves.  

166         AIG
2007 Form  10-K 

Table of Contents   

American International Group, Inc. and Subsidiaries

9. Reserve for Losses and Loss
Expenses and Future Life Policy Benefits and Policyholders 
Contract Deposits  

Continued 

The analysis of the future policy
benefits and policyholders  contract deposits liabilities
follows:  

Long duration contract liabilities included in future policy
benefits, as presented in the preceding table, result primarily
from life products. Short duration contract liabilities are
primarily accident and health products. The liability for future
life policy benefits has been established based upon the
following assumptions:

Interest rates (exclusive of immediate/terminal funding
    annuities), which vary by territory, year of issuance and
    products, range from 1.0 percent to 12.5 percent
    within the first 20 years. Interest rates on
    immediate/terminal funding annuities are at a maximum of
    11.5 percent and grade to not greater than 6.0 percent. 

Mortality and surrender rates are based upon actual experience
    by geographical area modified to allow for variations in policy
    form. The weighted average lapse rate, including surrenders, for
    individual and group life approximated 5.7 percent. 

The portions of current and prior net income and of current
    unrealized appreciation of investments that can inure to the
    benefit of AIG are restricted in some cases by the insurance
    contracts and by the local insurance regulations of the
    jurisdictions in which the policies are in force. 

Participating life business represented approximately
    12 percent of the gross insurance in force at
    December 31, 2007 and 25 percent of gross premiums and
    other considerations in 2007. The amount of annual dividends to
    be paid is determined locally by the boards of directors.
    Provisions for future dividend payments are computed by
    jurisdiction, reflecting local regulations. 

The liability for policyholders  contract deposits has been
established based on the following assumptions:

Interest rates credited on deferred annuities, which vary by
    territory and year of issuance, range from 1.4 percent to,
    including bonuses, 13.0 percent. Less than 1.0 percent
    of the liabilities are credited at a rate greater than
    9.0 percent. Current declared interest rates are generally
    guaranteed to remain in effect for a period of one year though
    some are guaranteed for longer periods. Withdrawal charges
    generally range from zero percent to 20.0 percent
    grading to zero over a period of zero to 19 years. 

Domestically, guaranteed investment contracts (GICs) have market
    value withdrawal provisions for any funds withdrawn other than
    benefit responsive payments. Interest rates credited generally
    range from 2.8 percent to 9.0 percent. The vast
    majority of these GICs mature within five years. 

Interest rates on corporate life insurance products are
    guaranteed at 4.0 percent and the weighted average rate
    credited in 2007 was 5.2 percent. 

The universal life funds have credited interest rates of
    1.0 percent to 7.0 percent and guarantees ranging from
    1.0 percent to 5.5 percent depending on the year of
    issue. Additionally, universal life funds are subject to
    surrender charges that amount to 12.0 percent of the
    aggregate fund balance grading to zero over a period not longer
    than 20 years. 

For variable products and investment contracts, policy values
    are expressed in terms of investment units. Each unit is linked
    to an asset portfolio. The value of a unit increases or
    decreases based on the value of the linked asset portfolio. The
    current liability at any time is the sum of the current unit
    value of all investment units plus any liability for guaranteed
    minimum death or withdrawal benefits. 

Certain products are subject to experience adjustments. These
include group life and group medical products, credit life
contracts, accident and health insurance contracts/riders
attached to life policies and, to a limited extent, reinsurance
agreements with other direct insurers. Ultimate premiums from
these contracts are estimated and recognized as revenue, and the
unearned portions of the premiums recorded as liabilities.
Experience adjustments vary according to the type of contract
and the territory in which the policy is in force and are
subject to local regulatory guidance.

10. Variable Life and Annuity
Contracts  

AIG follows American Institute of Certified Public Accountants
Statement of Position
 03-1  (SOP
 03-1),  which requires
recognition of a liability for guaranteed minimum death benefits
and other living benefits related to variable annuity and
variable life contracts as well as certain disclosures for these
products.

AIG reports variable contracts through separate and variable
accounts when investment income and investment gains and losses
accrue directly to, and investment risk is borne by, the
contract holder (traditional variable annuities), and the
separate account qualifies for separate account treatment under
SOP  03-1.  In some
foreign jurisdictions, separate accounts are not legally
insulated from general account creditors and therefore do not
qualify for separate account treatment under SOP
 03-1.  In such cases,
the variable contracts are reported as general account contracts
even though the policyholder bears the risks associated with the
performance of the assets. AIG also reports variable

AIG 2007
Form  10-K          
167 

Table of Contents   

American International Group, Inc. and Subsidiaries

Notes to Consolidated Financial
Statements    Continued  

10. Variable Life and Annuity
Contracts  

Continued 

annuity and life contracts through separate and variable
accounts, or general accounts when not qualified for separate
account reporting, when AIG contractually guarantees to the
contract holder (variable contracts with guarantees) either
 (a)  total deposits made to the contract less any
partial withdrawals plus a minimum return (and in minor
instances, no minimum returns) (Net Deposits Plus a Minimum
Return) or  (b)  the highest contract value attained,
typically on any anniversary date minus any subsequent
withdrawals following the contract anniversary (Highest Contract
Value Attained). These guarantees include benefits that are
payable in the event of death, annuitization, or, in other
instances, at specified dates during the accumulation period.
Such benefits are referred to as guaranteed minimum death
benefits (GMDB), guaranteed minimum income benefits (GMIB),
guaranteed minimum withdrawal benefits (GMWB) and guaranteed
minimum account value benefits (GMAV). For AIG, GMDB is by far
the most widely offered benefit.

The assets supporting the variable portion of both traditional
variable annuities and variable contracts with guarantees are
carried at fair value and reported as Separate and variable
account assets with an equivalent summary total reported as
Separate and variable account liabilities when the separate
account qualifies for separate account treatment under SOP
 03-1.  Assets for
separate accounts that do not qualify for separate account
treatment are reported as trading account assets, and
liabilities are included in the respective policyholder
liability account of the general account. Amounts assessed
against the contract holders for mortality, administrative, and
other services are included in revenue and changes in
liabilities for minimum guarantees are included in incurred
policy losses and benefits in the consolidated statement of
income. Separate and variable account net investment income, net
investment gains and losses, and the related liability changes
are offset within the same line item in the consolidated
statement of income for those accounts that qualify for separate
account treatment under SOP
 03-1.  Net investment
income and gains and losses on trading accounts for contracts
that do not qualify for separate account treatment under SOP
 03-1  are reported in
net investment income and are principally offset by amounts
reported in incurred policy losses and benefits.

The vast majority of AIG s
exposure on guarantees made to variable contract holders arises
from GMDB. Details concerning AIG s GMDB exposures at
December 31, 2007 and 2006 are as follows:  

(a)  
     
     Included in Policyholders  contract deposits in the
    consolidated balance sheet.  

(b)  
     
     Represents the amount of death benefit currently in excess of
    Account value.  

The following summarizes GMDB
liabilities for guarantees on variable contracts reflected in
the general account.  

The GMDB liability is determined each period end by estimating
the expected value of death benefits in excess of the projected
account balance and recognizing the excess ratably over the
accumulation period based on total expected assessments. AIG
regularly evaluates estimates used and adjusts the additional
liability balance, with a related charge or credit to benefit
expense, if actual experience or other evidence suggests that
earlier assumptions should be revised.

The following assumptions and methodology were used to determine
the GMDB liability at December 31, 2007:

Data used was up to 1,000 stochastically generated investment
    performance scenarios. 

Mean investment performance assumptions ranged from
    three percent to approximately ten percent depending
    on the block of business. 

Volatility assumptions ranged from eight percent to
    23 percent depending on the block of business. 

Mortality was assumed at between 50 percent and
    102 percent of various life and annuity mortality tables. 

For domestic contracts, lapse rates vary by contract type and
    duration and ranged from zero percent to 40 percent. For 

168         AIG
2007 Form  10-K 

Table of Contents   

American International Group, Inc. and Subsidiaries

10. Variable Life and Annuity
Contracts  

Continued 

Japan, lapse rates ranged from
    zero percent to 20 percent depending on the type of
    contract.

For domestic contracts, the
    discount rate ranged from 3.25 percent to 11 percent.
    For Japan, the discount rate ranged from two percent to
    seven percent.

In addition to GMDB, AIG s contracts currently include to a
lesser extent GMIB. The GMIB liability is determined each period
end by estimating the expected value of the annuitization
benefits in excess of the projected account balance at the date
of annuitization and recognizing the excess ratably over the
accumulation period based on total expected assessments. AIG
periodically evaluates estimates used and adjusts the additional
liability balance, with a related charge or credit to benefit
expense, if actual experience or other evidence suggests that
earlier assumptions should be revised.

AIG contracts currently include a minimal amount of GMAV and
GMWB. GMAV and GMWB are considered to be embedded derivatives
and are recognized at fair value through earnings. AIG enters
into derivative contracts to economically hedge a portion of the
exposure that arises from GMAV and GMWB.

AIG 2007
Form  10-K          
169 

Table of Contents   

American International Group, Inc. and Subsidiaries

Notes to Consolidated Financial
Statements    Continued  

11. Debt Outstanding  

At December 31, 2007 and 2006,
AIG s total borrowings were as follows:  

Maturities of Long-term borrowings at
December 31, 2007, excluding borrowings of consolidated
investments, are as follows:  

(a)   
     
     Represents structured notes issued by AIGFP that are
    accounted for at fair value.  

(b)   
     
     AIG does not guarantee these borrowings.  

(c)   
     
     Reflects future minimum payment for ILFC s borrowing
    under Export Credit Facilities.  

170         AIG
2007 Form  10-K 

Table of Contents   

American International Group, Inc. and Subsidiaries

11. Debt Outstanding  

Continued 

(a) Commercial Paper: 

At December 31, 2007, the
commercial paper issued and outstanding was as
follows:  

(a)   
     
     Issued in local currencies at prevailing local interest
    rates.  

(b)   
     
     Excludes $321 million of borrowings of consolidated
    investments and $194 million of extendible commercial
    notes.  

At December 31, 2007, AIG did not guarantee the commercial
paper of any of its subsidiaries other than AIG Funding.

(b) AIG Borrowings: 

(i) Notes and bonds issued by
AIG:  AIG maintains a medium-term note program under its
shelf registration statement. At December 31, 2007,
approximately $7.3 billion principal amount of senior notes
were outstanding under the medium-term note program, of which
$3.2 billion was used for AIG s general corporate
purposes, $873 million was used by AIGFP and
$3.2 billion was used to fund the Matched Investment
Program (MIP). The maturity dates of these notes range from 2008
to 2052. To the extent deemed appropriate, AIG may enter into
swap transactions to manage its effective borrowing rates with
respect to these notes.

AIG also maintains a Euro medium-term note program under which
an aggregate nominal amount of up to $20.0 billion of
senior notes may be outstanding at any one time. At
December 31, 2007, the equivalent of $12.7 billion of
notes were outstanding under the program, of which
$9.8 billion were used to fund the MIP and the remainder
was used for AIG s general corporate purposes. The
aggregate amount outstanding includes a $1.1 billion loss
resulting from foreign exchange translation into
U.S. dollars, of which a $332 million loss relates to
notes issued by AIG for general corporate purposes and a
$726 million loss relates to notes issued to fund the MIP.

During 2007, AIG issued in Rule 144A offerings an aggregate
of $3.0 billion principal amount of senior notes, of which
$650 million was used to fund the MIP and $2.3 billion
was used for AIG s general corporate purposes.

AIG maintains a shelf registration statement in Japan, providing
for the issuance of up to Japanese Yen 300 billion
principal amount of senior notes, of which the equivalent of
$450 million was outstanding at December 31, 2007, and
was used for AIG s general corporate purposes.

(ii) Junior subordinated debt: 
During 2007, AIG issued an aggregate of $5.6 billion of
junior subordinated debentures in five series of securities.
Substantially all of the proceeds from these sales, net of
expenses, are being used to repurchase shares of AIG s
common stock. In connection with each series of junior
subordinated debentures, AIG entered into a Replacement Capital
Covenant (RCC) for the benefit of the holders of AIG s
6.25 percent senior notes due 2036. The RCCs provide that
AIG will not repay, redeem, or purchase the applicable series of
junior subordinated debentures on or before a specified date,
unless AIG has received qualifying proceeds from the sale of
replacement capital securities.

(c) AIGFP Borrowings: 

(i) Borrowings under Obligations of
Guaranteed Investment Agreements:  Borrowings under
obligations of guaranteed investment agreements (GIAs), which
are guaranteed by AIG, are recorded at the amount outstanding
under each contract. Obligations may be called at various times
prior to maturity at the option of the counterparty. Interest
rates on these borrowings are primarily fixed, vary by maturity,
and range up to 9.8 percent.

Funds received from GIA borrowings are invested in a diversified
portfolio of securities and derivative transactions. At
December 31, 2007, the fair value of securities pledged as
collateral with respect to these obligations approximated
$14.5 billion.

(ii) Notes and Bonds issued by AIGFP:

At December 31, 2007, AIGFP s
notes and bonds outstanding, the proceeds of which are invested
in a diversified portfolio of securities and derivative
transactions, were as follows:  

AIGFP economically hedges its notes and bonds. AIG guarantees
all of AIGFP s debt.

(iii) Hybrid financial instrument
liabilities:  AIGFP s notes and bonds include
structured debt instruments whose payment terms are linked to
one or more financial or other indices (such as an equity index
or commodity index or another measure that is not considered to
be clearly and closely related to the debt instrument). These
notes contain embedded derivatives that otherwise

AIG 2007
Form  10-K          
171 

Table of Contents   

American International Group, Inc. and Subsidiaries

Notes to Consolidated Financial
Statements    Continued  

11. Debt Outstanding  

Continued 

would be required to be accounted for separately under
FAS 133. Upon AIG s early adoption of FAS 155,
AIGFP elected the fair value option for these notes. The notes
that are accounted for using the fair value option are reported
separately under hybrid financial instrument liabilities at fair
value.

(d) AIGLH Borrowings:  
At December 31, 2007, AIGLH notes aggregating
$797 million were outstanding with maturity dates ranging
from 2010 to 2029 at interest rates from 6.625 percent to
7.50 percent. AIG guarantees the notes and bonds of AIGLH.

(e) Liabilities Connected to Trust Preferred
Stock:   AIGLH issued Junior
Subordinated Debentures (liabilities) to certain trusts
established by AIGLH, which represent the sole assets of the
trusts. The trusts have no independent operations. The trusts
issued mandatory redeemable preferred stock to investors. The
interest terms and payment dates of the liabilities correspond
to those of the preferred stock. AIGLH s obligations with
respect to the liabilities and related agreements, when taken
together, constitute a full and unconditional guarantee by AIGLH
of payments due on the preferred securities. AIG guarantees the
obligations of AIGLH with respect to these liabilities and
related agreements. The liabilities are redeemable, under
certain conditions, at the option of AIGLH on a proportionate
basis.

At December 31, 2007, the preferred stock outstanding
consisted of $300 million liquidation value of
8.5 percent preferred stock issued by American General
Capital II in June 2000, $500 million liquidation
value of 8.125 percent preferred stock issued by American
General Institutional Capital B in March 1997, and
$500 million liquidation value of 7.57 percent
preferred stock issued by American General Institutional Capital
A in December 1996.

(f) ILFC Borrowings: 

(i) Notes and Bonds issued by
ILFC:  At December 31, 2007, notes aggregating
$23.1 billion were outstanding, consisting of
$10.8 billion of term notes, $11.3 billion of
medium-term notes with maturities ranging from 2008 to 2014 and
interest rates ranging from 2.75 percent to
5.75 percent and $1.0 billion of junior subordinated
debt as discussed below. Notes aggregating $5.3 billion are
at floating interest rates and the remainder are at fixed rates.
To the extent deemed appropriate, ILFC may enter into swap
transactions to manage its effective borrowing rates with
respect to these notes.

As a well-known seasoned issuer, ILFC has filed an automatic
shelf registration statement with the SEC allowing ILFC
immediate access to the U.S. public debt markets. At
December 31, 2007, $4.7 billion of debt securities had
been issued under this registration statement and
$5.9 billion had been issued under a prior registration
statement. In addition, ILFC has a Euro medium term note program
for $7.0 billion, under which $3.8 billion in notes
were outstanding at December 31, 2007. Notes issued under
the Euro medium-term note program are included in ILFC notes and
bonds payable in the preceding table of borrowings. The
cumulative foreign exchange adjustment loss for the foreign
currency denominated debt was $969 million at
December 31, 2007 and $733 million at
December 31, 2006. ILFC has substantially eliminated the
currency exposure arising from foreign currency denominated
notes by economically hedging the portion of the note exposure
not already offset by
 Euro-denominated 
operating lease payments.

(ii) Junior subordinated debt:

In December 2005, ILFC issued two tranches of junior
subordinated debt totaling $1.0 billion to underlie trust
preferred securities issued by a trust sponsored by ILFC. Both
tranches mature on December 21, 2065, but each tranche has
a different call option. The $600 million tranche has a
call date of December 21, 2010 and the $400 million
tranche has a call date of December 21, 2015. The note with
the 2010 call date has a fixed interest rate of
5.90 percent for the first five years. The note with the
2015 call date has a fixed interest rate of 6.25 percent
for the first ten years. Both tranches have interest rate
adjustments if the call option is not exercised. The new
interest rate is a floating quarterly reset rate based on the
initial credit spread plus the highest of (i) 3 month
LIBOR,
(ii)  10-year 
constant maturity treasury and
(iii)  30-year 
constant maturity treasury.

(iii) Export credit facility: 
ILFC had a $4.3 billion Export Credit Facility
(ECA) for use in connection with the purchase of
approximately 75 aircraft delivered through 2001. This facility
was guaranteed by various European Export Credit Agencies. The
interest rate varies from 5.75 percent to 5.90 percent
on these amortizing ten-year borrowings depending on the
delivery date of the aircraft. At December 31, 2007, ILFC
had $664 million outstanding under this facility. The debt is
collateralized by a pledge of the shares of a subsidiary of
ILFC, which holds title to the aircraft financed under the
facility.

In May 2004, ILFC entered into a similarly structured ECA for up
to a maximum of $2.6 billion for Airbus aircraft to be
delivered through May 31, 2005. The facility was
subsequently increased to $3.6 billion and extended to
include aircraft to be delivered through May 31, 2008. The
facility becomes available as the various European Export Credit
Agencies provide their guarantees for aircraft based on a
six-month forward-looking calendar, and the interest rate is
determined through a bid process. At December 31, 2007,
ILFC had $1.9 billion outstanding under this facility.

(iv) Bank Financings:  From
time to time, ILFC enters into various bank financings. At
December 31, 2007, the total funded amount was $1.1
billion. The financings mature through 2012. AIG does not
guarantee any of the debt obligations of ILFC.

(g) AGF Borrowings: 

(i) Notes and bonds issued by
AGF:  At December 31, 2007, notes and bonds
aggregating $22.4 billion were outstanding with maturity
dates ranging from 2008 to 2031 at interest rates ranging from
1.94 percent to 8.45 percent. To the extent deemed
appropriate, AGF may enter into swap transactions to manage its
effective borrowing rates with respect to these notes.

As a well-known seasoned issuer, AGF has filed an automatic
shelf registration statement with the SEC allowing AGF immediate
access to the U.S. public debt markets.

AGF uses the proceeds from the issuance of notes and bonds for
the funding of its finance receivables.

172         AIG
2007 Form  10-K 

Table of Contents   

American International Group, Inc. and Subsidiaries

11. Debt Outstanding  

Continued 

(ii) Junior subordinated debt: In January 2007, AGF issued
junior subordinated debentures in an aggregate principal amount
of $350 million that mature in January 2067. The debentures
underlie a series of trust preferred securities sold by a trust
sponsored by AGF in a Rule 144A/ Regulation S
offering. AGF can redeem the debentures at par beginning in
January 2017.

AIG does not guarantee any of the debt obligations of AGF.

(h) Other Notes, Bonds, Loans and Mortgages Payable at
December 31, 2007, consisted of the following: 

(i) Interest Expense for All
Indebtedness:   Total interest
expense for all indebtedness, net of capitalized interest,
aggregated $9.69 billion in 2007, $6.95 billion in 2006 and
$5.7 billion in 2005. Capitalized interest was $37 million
in 2007, $59 million in 2006 and $64 million in 2005.
Cash distributions on the preferred shareholders  equity in
subsidiary companies of ILFC and liabilities connected to trust
preferred stock of AIGLH subsidiaries are accounted for as
interest expense in the consolidated statement of income. The
cash distributions for ILFC were approximately $5 million
for each of the years ended December 31, 2007, 2006 and
2005. The cash distributions for AIGLH subsidiaries were
approximately $107 million, $107 million and
$112 million for the years ended December 31, 2007,
2006 and 2005, respectively.

12. Commitments, Contingencies and
Guarantees  

In the normal course of business, various commitments and
contingent liabilities are entered into by AIG and certain of
its subsidiaries. In addition, AIG guarantees various
obligations of certain subsidiaries.

(a) Litigation and Investigations 

Litigation Arising from Operations.  AIG and its
subsidiaries, in common with the insurance and financial
services industries in general, are subject to litigation,
including claims for punitive damages, in the normal course of
their business. In AIG s insurance operations, litigation
arising from claims settlement activities is generally
considered in the establishment of AIG s reserve for losses
and loss expenses. However, the potential for increasing jury
awards and settlements makes it difficult to assess the ultimate
outcome of such litigation.

Litigation Arising from Insurance Operations  
Caremark.  AIG and certain of its subsidiaries have been
named defendants in two putative class actions in state court in
Alabama that arise out of the 1999 settlement of class and
derivative litigation involving Caremark Rx, Inc. (Caremark).
The plaintiffs in the second-filed action have intervened in the
first-filed action, and the second-filed action has been
dismissed. An excess policy issued by a subsidiary of AIG with
respect to the 1999 litigation was expressly stated to be
without limit of liability. In the current actions, plaintiffs
allege that the judge approving the 1999 settlement was misled
as to the extent of available insurance coverage and would not
have approved the settlement had he known of the existence
and/or unlimited nature of the excess policy. They further
allege that AIG, its subsidiaries, and Caremark are liable for
fraud and suppression for misrepresenting and/or concealing the
nature and extent of coverage. In addition, the
intervenor-plaintiffs allege that various lawyers and law firms
who represented parties in the underlying class and derivative
litigation (the  Lawyer Defendants ) are also liable
for fraud and suppression, misrepresentation, and breach of
fiduciary duty. The complaints filed by the plaintiffs and the
intervenor-plaintiffs request compensatory damages for the 1999
class in the amount of $3.2 billion, plus punitive damages.
AIG and its subsidiaries deny the allegations of fraud and
suppression and have asserted that information concerning the
excess policy was publicly disclosed months prior to the
approval of the settlement. AIG and its subsidiaries further
assert that the current claims are barred by the statute of
limitations and that plaintiffs  assertions that the
statute was tolled cannot stand against the public disclosure of
the excess coverage. The plaintiffs and intervenor-plaintiffs,
in turn, have asserted that the disclosure was insufficient to
inform them of the nature of the coverage and did not start the
running of the statute of limitations. On November 26,
2007, the trial court issued an order that dismissed the
intervenors  complaint against the Lawyer Defendants and
entered a final judgment in favor of the Lawyer Defendants. The
intervenors are appealing the dismissal of the Lawyer Defendants
and have requested a stay of all trial court proceedings pending
the appeal. If the motion to stay is granted, no further
proceedings at the trial court level will occur until the appeal
is resolved. If the motion to stay is denied, the next step will
be to proceed with class discovery so that the trial court can
determine, under standards mandated by the Alabama Supreme
Court, whether the action should proceed as a class action. AIG
cannot reasonably estimate either the likelihood of its
prevailing in these actions or the potential damages in the
event liability is determined.

Litigation Arising from Insurance Operations  
Gunderson.  A subsidiary of AIG has been named as a defendant
in a putative class action lawsuit in the 14th Judicial
District Court for the State of Louisiana. The  Gunderson
 complaint alleges failure to comply with certain provisions
of the Louisiana Any Willing Provider Act (the Act) relating to
discounts taken by defendants on bills submitted by Louisiana
medical providers and hospitals that provided treatment or
services to workers compensation claimants and seeks monetary
penalties and injunctive relief. On July 20, 2006, the
court denied defendants  motion for summary judgment and
granted plaintiffs  partial motion for summary judgment,
holding that the AIG subsidiary was a  group
purchaser  and, therefore, potentially subject to liability
under the

AIG 2007
Form  10-K          
173 

Table of Contents   

American International Group, Inc. and Subsidiaries

Notes to Consolidated Financial
Statements    Continued  

12. Commitments, Contingencies and
Guarantees  

Continued 

Act. On November 28, 2006, the court issued an order
certifying a class of providers and hospitals. In an unrelated
action also arising under the Act, a Louisiana appellate court
ruled that the district court lacked jurisdiction to adjudicate
the claims at issue. In response, defendants in  Gunderson
 filed an exception for lack of subject matter jurisdiction.
On January 19, 2007, the court denied the motion, holding
that it has jurisdiction over the putative class claims. The AIG
subsidiary has appealed the class certification and
jurisdictional rulings. While the appeal was pending, the AIG
subsidiary settled the lawsuit. On January 25, 2008,
plaintiffs and the AIG subsidiary agreed to resolve the lawsuit
on a class-wide basis for approximately $29 million. The
court has preliminarily approved the settlement and will hold a
final approval hearing on May 29, 2008. In the event that
the settlement is not finally approved, AIG believes that it has
meritorious defenses to plaintiffs  claims and expects that
the ultimate resolution of this matter will not have a material
adverse effect on AIG s consolidated financial condition or
results of operations for any period.

2006 Regulatory Settlements.  In February 2006, AIG
reached a resolution of claims and matters under investigation
with the United States Department of Justice (DOJ), the
Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC), the Office of the New
York Attorney General (NYAG) and the New York State
Department of Insurance (DOI). AIG recorded an after-tax charge
of $1.15 billion relating to these settlements in the
fourth quarter of 2005.

The settlements resolved investigations conducted by the SEC,
NYAG and DOI in connection with the accounting, financial
reporting and insurance brokerage practices of AIG and its
subsidiaries, as well as claims relating to the underpayment of
certain workers compensation premium taxes and other
assessments. These settlements did not, however, resolve
investigations by regulators from other states into insurance
brokerage practices related to contingent commissions and other
broker-related conduct, such as alleged bid rigging. Nor did the
settlements resolve any obligations that AIG may have to state
guarantee funds in connection with any of these matters.

As a result of these settlements, AIG made payments or placed
amounts in escrow in 2006 totaling approximately
$1.64 billion, $225 million of which represented fines
and penalties. Amounts held in escrow totaling
$347 million, including interest thereon, are included in
other assets at December 31, 2007. At that date,
approximately $330 million of the funds were escrowed for
settlement of claims resulting from the underpayment by AIG of
its residual market assessments for workers compensation. On
May 24, 2007, The National Workers Compensation Reinsurance
Pool, on behalf of its participant members, filed a lawsuit
against AIG with respect to the underpayment of such
assessments. On August 6, 2007, the court denied AIG s
motion seeking to dismiss or stay the complaint based on
 Colorado River  abstention or  forum non conveniens ,
or in the alternative, to transfer to the Southern District of
New York. On December 26, 2007, the court denied AIG s
motion to dismiss the complaint. AIG filed its answer on
January 22, 2008. On February 5, 2008, following
agreement of the parties, the court entered an order staying all
proceedings through March 3, 2008. In addition, a similar
lawsuit filed by the Minnesota Workers Compensation Reinsurance
Association and the Minnesota Workers Compensation Insurers
Association is pending. On August 6, 2007, AIG moved to
dismiss the complaint and that motion is  sub judice . A
purported class action was filed in South Carolina Federal Court
on January 25, 2008 against AIG and certain of its
subsidiaries, on behalf of a class of employers that obtained
workers compensation insurance from AIG companies and allegedly
paid inflated premiums as a result of AIG s alleged
underreporting of workers compensation premiums. AIG cannot
currently estimate whether the amount ultimately required to
settle these claims will exceed the funds escrowed or otherwise
accrued for this purpose. AIG has settled litigation that was
filed by the Minnesota Attorney General with respect to claims
by the Minnesota Department of Revenue and the Minnesota Special
Compensation Fund.

The National Association of Insurance Commissioners has formed a
Market Analysis Working Group directed by the State of Indiana,
which has commenced its own investigation into the
underreporting of workers compensation premium. In early 2008,
AIG was informed that the Market Analysis Working Group had been
disbanded in favor of a multi-state targeted market conduct exam
focusing on worker s compensation insurance.

The remaining escrowed funds, which amounted to $17 million
at December 31, 2007, are set aside for settlements for
certain specified AIG policyholders. As of February 20,
2008, eligible policyholders entitled to receive approximately
$359 million (or 95 percent) of the excess casualty
fund had opted to receive settlement payments in exchange for
releasing AIG and its subsidiaries from liability relating to
certain insurance brokerage practices. Amounts remaining in the
excess casualty fund may be used by AIG to settle claims from
other policyholders relating to such practices through
February 29, 2008 (originally set for January 31, 2008
and later extended), after which they will be distributed pro
rata to participating policyholders.

In addition to the escrowed funds, $800 million was
deposited into a fund under the supervision of the SEC as part
of the settlements to be available to resolve claims asserted
against AIG by investors, including the shareholder lawsuits
described herein.

Also, as part of the settlements, AIG agreed to retain, for a
period of three years, an independent consultant to conduct a
review that will include, among other things, the adequacy of
AIG s internal control over financial reporting, the
policies, procedures and effectiveness of AIG s regulatory,
compliance and legal functions and the remediation plan that AIG
has implemented as a result of its own internal review.

Other than as described above, at the current time, AIG cannot
predict the outcome of the matters described above, or estimate
any potential additional costs related to these matters.

Private Litigation 

Securities Actions.  Beginning in October 2004, a number
of putative securities fraud class action suits were filed
against AIG and consolidated as  In re American International
Group, Inc. 

174         AIG
2007 Form  10-K 

Table of Contents   

American International Group, Inc. and Subsidiaries

12. Commitments, Contingencies and
Guarantees  

Continued 

Securities Litigation. Subsequently, a separate, though similar,
securities fraud action was also brought against AIG by certain
Florida pension funds. The lead plaintiff in the class action is
a group of public retirement systems and pension funds
benefiting Ohio state employees, suing on behalf of themselves
and all purchasers of AIG s publicly traded securities
between October 28, 1999 and April 1, 2005. The named
defendants are AIG and a number of present and former AIG
officers and directors, as well as Starr, SICO, General
Reinsurance Corporation, and PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP (PwC),
among others. The lead plaintiff alleges, among other things,
that AIG: (1) concealed that it engaged in anti-competitive
conduct through alleged payment of contingent commissions to
brokers and participation in illegal bid-rigging;
(2) concealed that it used  income smoothing 
products and other techniques to inflate its earnings;
(3) concealed that it marketed and sold  income
smoothing  insurance products to other companies; and
(4) misled investors about the scope of government
investigations. In addition, the lead plaintiff alleges that
AIG s former Chief Executive Officer manipulated AIG s
stock price. The lead plaintiff asserts claims for violations of
Sections 11 and 15 of the Securities Act of 1933,
Section 10(b) of the Exchange Act, and
Rule  10b-5 
promulgated thereunder, Section 20(a) of the Exchange Act,
and Section 20A of the Exchange Act. In April 2006, the
court denied the defendants  motions to dismiss the second
amended class action complaint and the Florida complaint. In
December 2006, a third amended class action complaint was filed,
which does not differ substantially from the prior complaint.
Fact and class discovery is currently ongoing. On
February 20, 2008, the lead plaintiff filed a motion for
class certification.

ERISA Action.  Between November 30, 2004 and
July 1, 2005, several Employee Retirement Income Security
Act of 1974 (ERISA) actions were filed on behalf of
purported class of participants and beneficiaries of three
pension plans sponsored by AIG or its subsidiaries. A
consolidated complaint filed on September 26, 2005 alleges
a class period between September 30, 2000 and May 31,
2005 and names as defendants AIG, the members of AIG s
Retirement Board and the Administrative Boards of the plans at
issue, and four present or former members of AIG s Board of
Directors. The factual allegations in the complaint are
essentially identical to those in the securities actions
described above. The parties have reached an agreement in
principle to settle this matter for an amount within AIG s
insurance coverage limits.

Securities Action   Oregon State Court.  On
February 27, 2008, The State of Oregon, by and through
the Oregon State Treasurer, and the Oregon Public Employee
Retirement Board, on behalf of the Oregon Public Employee
Retirement Fund, filed a lawsuit against American International
Group, Inc. for damages arising out of plaintiffs  purchase
of AIG common stock at prices that allegedly were inflated.
Plaintiffs allege, among other things, that AIG: (1) made false
and misleading statements concerning its accounting for a
$500 million transaction with General Re;
(2) concealed that it marketed and misrepresented its
control over off-shore entities in order to improve financial
results; (3) improperly accounted for underwriting losses
as investment losses in connection with transactions involving
CAPCO Reinsurance Company, Ltd. and Union Excess; (4) misled
investors about the scope of government investigations; and (5)
engaged in market manipulation through its then Chairman and CEO
Maurice R. Greenburg. The complaint asserts claims for
violations of Oregon Securities Law, and seeks compensatory
damages in an amount in excess of $15 million, and
prejudgment interest and costs and fees.

Derivative Actions   Southern District of New
York.  On November 20, 2007, two purported shareholder
derivative actions were filed in the Southern District of New
York naming as defendants the current directors of AIG and
certain senior officers of AIG and its subsidiaries. Plaintiffs
assert claims for breach of fiduciary duty, waste of corporate
assets and unjust enrichment, as well as violations of
Section 10(b) of the Exchange Act and
Rule  10b-5 
promulgated thereunder, and Section 20(a) of the Exchange
Act, among other things, in connection with AIG s public
disclosures regarding its exposure to what the lawsuits describe
as the subprime market crisis. The actions were consolidated as
 In re American International Group, Inc. 2007 Derivative
Litigation . On February 15, 2008, plaintiffs filed a
consolidated amended complaint alleging the same causes of
action. AIG may become subject to litigation with respect to
these or similar issues.

Between October 25, 2004 and July 14, 2005, seven
separate derivative actions were filed in the Southern District
of New York, five of which were consolidated into a single
action. The New York derivative complaint contains nearly the
same types of allegations made in the securities fraud and ERISA
actions described above. The named defendants include current
and former officers and directors of AIG, as well as
Marsh & McLennan Companies, Inc. (Marsh), SICO, Starr,
ACE Limited and subsidiaries (ACE), General Reinsurance
Corporation, PwC, and certain employees or officers of these
entity defendants. Plaintiffs assert claims for breach of
fiduciary duty, gross mismanagement, waste of corporate assets,
unjust enrichment, insider selling, auditor breach of contract,
auditor professional negligence and disgorgement from AIG s
former Chief Executive Officer and Chief Financial Officer of
incentive-based compensation and AIG share proceeds under
Section 304 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act, among others.
Plaintiffs seek, among other things, compensatory damages,
corporate governance reforms, and a voiding of the election of
certain AIG directors. AIG s Board of Directors has
appointed a special committee of independent directors (special
committee) to review the matters asserted in the operative
consolidated derivative complaint. The court has entered an
order staying the derivative case in the Southern District of
New York pending resolution of the consolidated derivative
action in the Delaware Chancery Court (discussed below). The
court also has entered an order that termination of certain
named defendants from the Delaware derivative action applies to
the New York derivative action without further order of the
court. On October 17, 2007, plaintiffs and those AIG
officer and director defendants against whom the shareholder
plaintiffs in the Delaware action are no longer

AIG 2007
Form  10-K          
175 

Table of Contents   

American International Group, Inc. and Subsidiaries

Notes to Consolidated Financial
Statements    Continued  

12. Commitments, Contingencies and
Guarantees  

Continued 

pursuing claims filed a stipulation providing for all claims in
the New York action against such defendants to be dismissed with
prejudice. Former directors and officers Maurice R. Greenberg
and Howard I. Smith have asked the court to refrain from so
ordering this stipulation.

Derivative Actions   Delaware Chancery
Court.  From October 2004 to April 2005, AIG shareholders
filed five derivative complaints in the Delaware Chancery Court.
All of these derivative lawsuits were consolidated into a single
action as  In re American International Group, Inc.
Consolidated Derivative Litigation . The amended consolidated
complaint named 43 defendants (not including nominal defendant
AIG) who, like the New York consolidated derivative litigation,
were current and former officers and directors of AIG, as well
as other entities and certain of their current and former
employees and directors. The factual allegations, legal claims
and relief sought in the Delaware action are similar to those
alleged in the New York derivative actions, except that
shareholder plaintiffs in the Delaware derivative action assert
claims only under state law. Earlier in 2007, the Court approved
an agreement that AIG be realigned as plaintiff, and, on
June 13, 2007, acting on the direction of the special
committee, AIG filed an amended complaint against former
directors and officers Maurice R. Greenberg and Howard I. Smith,
alleging breach of fiduciary duty and indemnification. Also on
June 13, 2007, the special committee filed a motion to
terminate the litigation as to certain defendants, while taking
no action as to others. Defendants Greenberg and Smith filed
answers to AIG s complaint and brought third-party
complaints against certain current and former AIG directors and
officers, PwC and Regulatory Insurance Services, Inc. On
September 28, 2007, AIG and the shareholder plaintiffs
filed a combined amended complaint in which AIG continued to
assert claims against defendants Greenberg and Smith and took no
position as to the claims asserted by the shareholder plaintiffs
in the remainder of the combined amended complaint. In that
pleading, the shareholder plaintiffs are no longer pursuing
claims against certain AIG officers and directors. In November
2007, the shareholder plaintiffs moved to sever their claims to
a separate action. AIG joined the motion to the extent that,
among other things, the claims against defendants Greenberg and
Smith would remain in prosecution in the pending action. In
addition, a number of parties, including AIG, filed motions to
stay discovery. On February 12, 2008, the court granted
AIG s motion to stay discovery pending the resolution of
claims against AIG in the New York consolidated securities
action. The court also denied plaintiff s motion to sever
and directed the parties to coordinate a briefing schedule for
the motions to dismiss.

A separate derivative lawsuit was filed in the Delaware Chancery
Court against twenty directors and executives of AIG as well as
against AIG as a nominal defendant that alleges, among other
things, that the directors of AIG breached the fiduciary duties
of loyalty and care by approving the payment of commissions to
Starr and of rental and service fees to SICO and the executives
breached their duty of loyalty by causing AIG to enter into
contracts with Starr and SICO and their fiduciary duties by
usurping AIG s corporate opportunity. The complaint further
alleges that the Starr agencies did not provide any services
that AIG was not capable of providing itself, and that the
diversion of commissions to these entities was solely for the
benefit of Starr s owners. The complaint also alleged that
the service fees and rental payments made to SICO and its
subsidiaries were improper. Under the terms of a stipulation
approved by the Court on February 16, 2006, the claims
against the outside independent directors were dismissed with
prejudice, while the claims against the other directors were
dismissed without prejudice. On October 31, 2005,
Defendants Greenberg, Matthews and Smith, SICO and Starr
filed motions to dismiss the amended complaint. In an opinion
dated June 21, 2006, the Court denied defendants 
motion to dismiss, except with respect to plaintiff s
challenge to payments made to Starr before January 1, 2000.
On July 21, 2006, plaintiff filed its second amended
complaint, which alleges that, between January 1, 2000 and
May 31, 2005, individual defendants breached their duty of
loyalty by causing AIG to enter into contracts with Starr and
SICO and breached their fiduciary duties by usurping AIG s
corporate opportunity. Starr is charged with aiding and abetting
breaches of fiduciary duty and unjust enrichment for its
acceptance of the fees. SICO is no longer named as a defendant.
On April 20, 2007, the individual defendants and Starr
filed a motion seeking leave of the Court to assert a
cross-claim against AIG and a third-party complaint against PwC
and the directors previously dismissed from the action, as well
as certain other AIG officers and employees. On June 13,
2007, the Court denied the individual defendants  motion to
file a third-party complaint, but granted the proposed
cross-claim against AIG. On June 27, 2007, Starr filed its
cross-claim against AIG, alleging one count that includes
contribution, unjust enrichment and setoff. AIG has filed an
answer and moved to dismiss Starr s cross-claim to the
extent it seeks affirmative relief, as opposed to a reduction in
the judgment amount. On November 15, 2007, the court
granted AIG s motion to dismiss the cross-claim by Starr to
the extent that it sought affirmative relief from AIG. On
November 21, 2007, shareholder plaintiff submitted a motion
for leave to file its Third Amended Complaint in order to add
Thomas Tizzio as a defendant. On February 14, 2008, the
court granted this motion and allowed Mr. Tizzio until
April 2008 to take additional discovery. Document discovery and
depositions are otherwise complete.

Policyholder Actions.  After the NYAG filed its complaint
against insurance broker Marsh, policyholders brought multiple
federal antitrust and Racketeer Influenced and Corrupt
Organizations Act (RICO) class actions in jurisdictions
across the nation against

insurers and brokers, including AIG and a number of its
subsidiaries, alleging that the insurers and brokers engaged in
a broad conspiracy to allocate customers, steer business, and
rig bids. These actions, including 24 complaints filed in
different federal courts naming AIG or an AIG subsidiary as a
defendant, were consolidated by the judicial panel on
multi-district litigation and transferred to the United States
District Court for the District of New Jersey for coordinated
pretrial proceedings. The consolidated actions have proceeded in
that court in two parallel actions,  In re 

176         AIG
2007 Form  10-K 

Table of Contents   

American International Group, Inc. and Subsidiaries

12. Commitments, Contingencies and
Guarantees  

Continued 

Insurance Brokerage Antitrust Litigation  (the  First
Commercial Complaint ) and  In re Employee Benefit
Insurance Brokerage Antitrust Litigation  (the  First
Employee Benefits Complaint,  and, together with the  First
Commercial Complaint,  the multi-district litigation).

The plaintiffs in the  First Commercial Complaint  are
nineteen corporations, individuals and public entities that
contracted with the broker defendants for the provision of
insurance brokerage services for a variety of insurance needs.
The broker defendants are alleged to have placed insurance
coverage on the plaintiffs  behalf with a number of
insurance companies named as defendants, including AIG
subsidiaries. The  First Commercial Complaint  also named
ten brokers and fourteen other insurers as defendants (two of
which have since settled). The  First Commercial Complaint
 alleges that defendants engaged in a widespread conspiracy
to allocate customers through  bid-rigging  and
 steering  practices. The  First Commercial
Complaint  also alleges that the insurer defendants permitted
brokers to place business with AIG subsidiaries through
wholesale intermediaries affiliated with or owned by those same
brokers rather than placing the business with AIG subsidiaries
directly. Finally, the  First Commercial Complaint  alleges
that the insurer defendants entered into agreements with broker
defendants that tied insurance placements to reinsurance
placements in order to provide additional compensation to each
broker. Plaintiffs assert that the defendants violated the
Sherman Antitrust Act, RICO, the antitrust laws of
48 states and the District of Columbia, and are liable
under common law breach of fiduciary duty and unjust enrichment
theories. Plaintiffs seek treble damages plus interest and
attorneys  fees as a result of the alleged RICO and Sherman
Antitrust Act violations.

The plaintiffs in the  First Employee Benefits Complaint
 are nine individual employees and corporate and municipal
employers alleging claims on behalf of two separate nationwide
purported classes: an employee class and an employer class that
acquired insurance products from the defendants from
August 26, 1994 to the date of any class certification. The
 First Employee Benefits Complaint  names AIG, as well as
eleven brokers and five other insurers, as defendants. The
activities alleged in the  First Employee Benefits Complaint,
 with certain exceptions, track the allegations of contingent
commissions, bid-rigging and tying made in the  First
Commercial Complaint. 

On October 3, 2006, Judge Hochberg of the District of New
Jersey reserved in part and denied in part motions filed by the
insurer defendants and broker defendants to dismiss the
multi-district litigation. The Court also ordered the plaintiffs
in both actions to file supplemental statements of particularity
to elaborate on the allegations in their complaints. Plaintiffs
filed their supplemental statements on October 25, 2006,
and the AIG defendants, along with other insurer and broker
defendants in the two consolidated actions, filed renewed
motions to dismiss on November 30, 2006. On
February 16, 2007, the case was transferred to Judge
Garrett E. Brown, Chief Judge of the District of New Jersey. On
April 5, 2007, Chief Judge Brown granted the
defendants  renewed motions to dismiss the  First
Commercial Complaint  and  First Employee Benefits
Complaint  with respect to the antitrust and RICO claims. The
claims were dismissed without prejudice and the plaintiffs were
given 30 days, later extended to 45 days, to file
amended complaints. On April 11, 2007, the Court stayed all
proceedings, including all discovery, that are part of the
multi-district litigation until any renewed motions to dismiss
the amended complaints are resolved.

A number of complaints making allegations similar to those in
the  First Commercial Complaint  have been filed against
AIG and other defendants in state and federal courts around the
country. The defendants have thus far been successful in having
the federal actions transferred to the District of New Jersey
and consolidated into the multi-district litigation. The AIG
defendants have also sought to have state court actions making
similar allegations stayed pending resolution of the
multi-district litigation proceeding. In one state court action
pending in Florida, the trial court recently decided not to
grant an additional stay, but instead to allow the case to
proceed. Defendants filed their motions to dismiss, and on
September 24, 2007, the court denied the motions with
respect to the state antitrust, RICO, and common law claims and
granted the motions with respect to both the Florida insurance
bad faith claim against AIG (with prejudice) and the punitive
damages claim (without prejudice). Discovery in this action is
ongoing.

Plaintiffs filed amended complaints in both  In re Insurance
Brokerage Antitrust Litigation  (the  Second Commercial
Complaint ) and  In re Employee Benefit Insurance Brokerage
Antitrust Litigation  (the  Second Employee Benefits
Complaint ) along with revised particularized statements in
both actions on May 22, 2007. The allegations in the
 Second Commercial Complaint  and the  Second Employee
Benefits Complaint  are substantially similar to the
allegations in the  First Commercial Complaint and First
Employee Benefits Complaint,  respectively. The complaints
also attempt to add several new parties and delete others; the
 Second Commercial Complaint  adds two new plaintiffs and
twenty seven new defendants (including three new AIG
defendants), and the  Second Employee Benefits Complaint
 adds eight new plaintiffs and nine new defendants (including
two new AIG defendants). The defendants filed motions to dismiss
the amended complaints and to strike the newly added parties.
The Court granted (without leave to amend) defendants 
motions to dismiss the federal antitrust and RICO claims on
August 31, 2007 and September 28, 2007, respectively.
The Court declined to exercise supplemental jurisdiction over
the state law claims in the  Second Commercial Complaint
 and therefore dismissed it in its entirety. On
January 14, 2008, the court granted defendants  motion
for summary judgment on the ERISA claims in the Second Employee
Benefits Complaint and subsequently dismissed the remaining
state law claims without prejudice, thereby dismissing the
Second Employee Benefits Complaint in its entirety. On February
12, 2008, plaintiffs filed a notice of appeal to the United
States Court of Appeals for the Third Circuit with respect to
the dismissal of the Second Employee Benefits Complaint.
Plaintiffs previously appealed the dismissal of the Second
Commercial Complaint to the United

AIG 2007
Form  10-K          
177 

Table of Contents   

American International Group, Inc. and Subsidiaries

Notes to Consolidated Financial
Statements    Continued  

12. Commitments, Contingencies and
Guarantees  

Continued 

States Court of Appeals for the Third Circuit on October 10,
2007. Several similar actions that were consolidated before
Chief Judge Brown are still pending in the District Court. Those
actions are currently stayed pending a decision by the court on
whether they will proceed during the appeal of the dismissal of
the Second Commercial Complaint and the Second Employee Benefits
Complaint.

On August 24, 2007, the Ohio Attorney General filed a
complaint in the Ohio Court of Common Pleas against AIG and a
number of its subsidiaries, as well as several other broker and
insurer defendants, asserting violation of Ohio s antitrust
laws. The complaint, which is similar to the  Second
Commercial Complaint,  alleges that AIG and the other broker
and insurer defendants conspired to allocate customers, divide
markets, and restrain competition in commercial lines of
casualty insurance sold through the broker defendant. The
complaint seeks treble damages on behalf of Ohio public
purchasers of commercial casualty insurance, disgorgement on
behalf of both public and private purchasers of commercial
casualty insurance, as well as a $500 per day penalty for
each day of conspiratorial conduct. AIG, along with other
co-defendants, moved to dismiss the complaint on
November 16, 2007. Discovery is stayed in the case pending
a ruling on the motion to dismiss or until May 15, 2008,
whichever occurs first.

SICO.  In July, 2005, SICO filed a complaint against AIG
in the Southern District of New York, claiming that AIG had
refused to provide SICO access to certain artwork and asked the
court to order AIG immediately to release the property to SICO.
AIG filed an answer denying SICO s allegations and setting
forth defenses to SICO s claims. In addition, AIG filed
counterclaims asserting breach of contract, unjust enrichment,
conversion, breach of fiduciary duty, a constructive trust and
declaratory judgment, relating to SICO s breach of its
commitment to use its AIG shares only for the benefit of AIG and
AIG employees. Fact and expert discovery has been concluded and
SICO s motion for summary judgment is pending.

Regulatory Investigations.  Regulators from several states
have commenced investigations into insurance brokerage practices
related to contingent commissions and other industry wide
practices as well as other broker-related conduct, such as
alleged bid-rigging. In addition, various federal, state and
foreign regulatory and governmental agencies are reviewing
certain transactions and practices of AIG and its subsidiaries
in connection with industry wide and other inquiries. AIG has
cooperated, and will continue to cooperate, in producing
documents and other information in response to subpoenas and
other requests. On January 29, 2008, AIG reached settlement
agreements with nine states and the District of Columbia. The
settlement agreements call for AIG to pay a total of
$12.5 million to be allocated among the ten jurisdictions
and also require AIG to continue to maintain certain producer
compensation disclosure and ongoing compliance initiatives. AIG
will also continue to cooperate with these states in their
ongoing investigations. AIG has not admitted liability under the
settlement agreements and continues to deny the allegations.
Nevertheless, AIG agreed to settle in order to avoid the expense
and uncertainty of protracted litigation. The settlement
agreements, which remain subject to court approvals, were
reached with the Attorneys General of the States of Florida,
Hawaii, Maryland, Michigan, Oregon, Texas and West Virginia, the
Commonwealths of Massachusetts and Pennsylvania, and the
District of Columbia, the Florida Department of Financial
Services, and the Florida Office of Insurance Regulation. The
agreement with the Texas Attorney General also settles
allegations of anticompetitive conduct relating to AIG s
relationship with Allied World Assurance Company and includes an
additional settlement payment of $500,000 related thereto.

Wells Notices.  AIG understands that some of its employees
have received Wells notices in connection with previously
disclosed SEC investigations of certain of AIG s
transactions or accounting practices. Under SEC procedures, a
Wells notice is an indication that the SEC staff has made a
preliminary decision to recommend enforcement action that
provides recipients with an opportunity to respond to the SEC
staff before a formal recommendation is finalized. It is
possible that additional current and former employees could
receive similar notices in the future as the regulatory
investigations proceed.

Effect on AIG 

In the opinion of AIG management, AIG s ultimate liability
for the unresolved litigation and investigation matters referred
to above is not likely to have a material adverse effect on
AIG s consolidated financial condition, although it is
possible that the effect would be material to AIG s
consolidated results of operations for an individual reporting
period.

(b) Commitments 

Flight Equipment 

At December 31, 2007, ILFC had committed to purchase 234
new aircraft deliverable from 2008 through 2017 at an estimated
aggregate purchase price of $20.1 billion. ILFC will be required
to find customers for any aircraft acquired, and it must arrange
financing for portions of the purchase price of such equipment.

Minimum future rental income on
noncancelable operating leases of flight equipment which have
been delivered at December 31, 2007 was as
follows:  

Flight equipment is leased, under operating leases, with
remaining terms ranging from 1 to 12 years.

178         AIG
2007 Form  10-K 

Table of Contents   

American International Group, Inc. and Subsidiaries

12. Commitments, Contingencies and
Guarantees  

Continued 

Lease Commitments 

AIG and its subsidiaries occupy leased space in many locations
under various long-term leases and have entered into various
leases covering the long-term use of data processing equipment.

At December 31, 2007, the future
minimum lease payments under operating leases were as
follows:  

Rent expense approximated $771 million, $657 million,
and $597 million for the years ended December 31,
2007, 2006, and 2005, respectively.

Other Commitments 

In the normal course of business, AIG enters into commitments to
invest in limited partnerships, private equities, hedge funds
and mutual funds and to purchase and develop real estate in the
U.S. and abroad. These commitments totaled $9.1 billion at
December 31, 2007.

On June 27, 2005, AIG entered into an agreement pursuant to
which AIG agrees, subject to certain conditions, to make any
payment that is not promptly paid with respect to the benefits
accrued by certain employees of AIG and its subsidiaries under
the SICO Plans (as discussed in Note 19 herein).

(c) Contingencies 

Loss Reserves 

Although AIG regularly reviews the adequacy of the established
reserve for losses and loss expenses, there can be no assurance
that AIG s ultimate loss reserves will not develop
adversely and materially exceed AIG s current loss
reserves. Estimation of ultimate net losses, loss expenses and
loss reserves is a complex process for long-tail casualty lines
of business, which include excess and umbrella liability,
directors and officers liability (D&O), professional
liability, medical malpractice, workers compensation, general
liability, products liability and related classes, as well as
for asbestos and environmental exposures. Generally, actual
historical loss development factors are used to project future
loss development. However, there can be no assurance that future
loss development patterns will be the same as in the past.
Moreover, any deviation in loss cost trends or in loss
development factors might not be discernible for an extended
period of time subsequent to the recording of the initial loss
reserve estimates for any accident year. Thus, there is the
potential for reserves with respect to a number of years to be
significantly affected by changes in loss cost trends or loss
development factors that were relied upon in setting the
reserves. These changes in loss cost trends or loss development
factors could be attributable to changes in inflation, in labor
and material costs or in the judicial environment, or in other
social or economic phenomena affecting claims.

Synthetic Fuel Tax Credits.  AIG generated income tax
credits as a result of investing in synthetic fuel production.
Tax credits generated from the production and sale of synthetic
fuel under the Internal Revenue Code were subject to an annual
phase-out provision based on the average wellhead price of
domestic crude oil. The price range within which the tax credits
are phased-out was originally established in 1980 and is
adjusted annually for inflation. Depending on the price of
domestic crude oil for a particular year, all or a portion of
the tax credits generated in that year might be eliminated. AIG
evaluated the production levels of its synthetic fuel production
facilities in light of the risk of phase-out of the associated
tax credits. As a result of fluctuating domestic crude oil
prices, AIG evaluated and adjusted production levels when
appropriate in light of this risk. Under current legislation,
the opportunity to generate additional tax credits from the
production and sale of synthetic fuel expired on
December 31, 2007.

Lease Transactions.  In June and August, 2007, field
agents at the Internal Revenue Service (IRS) issued Notices of
Proposed Adjustment (NOPAs) relating to a series of lease
transactions by an AIG subsidiary. In the NOPAs, the field
agents asserted that the leasing transactions were
 lease-in lease-out  transactions described in Revenue
Ruling 2002-69 and proposed adjustments to taxable income of
approximately $203 million in the aggregate for the years
1998, 1999, 2001 and 2002.

(d) Guarantees 

AIG and certain of its subsidiaries become parties to derivative
financial instruments with market risk resulting from both
dealer and end-user activities and to reduce currency, interest
rate, equity and commodity exposures. These instruments are
carried at their estimated fair values in the consolidated
balance sheet. The vast majority of AIG s derivative
activity is transacted by AIGFP. See also Note 8 herein.

AIG has issued unconditional guarantees with respect to the
prompt payment, when due, of all present and future payment
obligations and liabilities of AIGFP arising from transactions
entered into by AIGFP.

SAI Deferred Compensation Holdings, Inc., a wholly owned
subsidiary of AIG, has established a deferred compensation plan
for registered representatives of certain AIG subsidiaries,
pursuant to which participants have the opportunity to invest
deferred commissions and fees on a notional basis. The value of
the deferred compensation fluctuates with the value of the
deferred investment alternatives chosen. AIG has provided a full
and unconditional guarantee of the obligations of SAI Deferred
Compensation Holdings, Inc. to pay the deferred compensation
under the plan.

AIG 2007
Form  10-K          
179 

Table of Contents   

American International Group, Inc. and Subsidiaries

Notes to Consolidated Financial
Statements    Continued  

13. Preferred Shareholders 
Equity in Subsidiary Companies  

At December 31, 2007, preferred shareholders  equity
in subsidiary companies represents preferred stocks issued by
ILFC, a wholly owned subsidiary of AIG.

At December 31, 2007, the preferred stock consists of
1,000 shares of market auction preferred stock
(MAPS) in two series (Series A and B) of
500 shares each. Each of the MAPS shares has a liquidation
value of $100,000 per share and is not convertible. The
dividend rate, other than the initial rate, for each dividend
period for each series is reset approximately every seven weeks
(49 days) on the basis of orders placed in an auction.
During 2006, ILFC extended each of the MAPS dividend periods for
three years. At December 31, 2007, the dividend rate for
Series A MAPS was 4.70 percent and the dividend rate for
Series B MAPS was 5.59 percent.

14. Shareholders  Equity and
Earnings Per Share  

Shareholders  Equity

AIG parent depends on its subsidiaries for cash flow in the form
of loans, advances, reimbursement for shared expenses, and
dividends. AIG s insurance subsidiaries are subject to
regulatory restrictions on the amount of dividends that can be
remitted to AIG parent. These restrictions vary by jurisdiction.
For example, unless permitted by the New York Superintendent of
Insurance, general insurance companies domiciled in New York may
not pay dividends to shareholders that, in any twelve-month
period, exceed the lesser of ten percent of such company s
statutory policyholders  surplus or 100 percent of its
 adjusted net investment income,  as defined.
Generally, less severe restrictions applicable to both general
and life insurance companies exist in most of the other states
in which AIG s insurance subsidiaries are domiciled.
Certain foreign jurisdictions have restrictions that could delay
or limit the remittance of dividends. There are also various
local restrictions limiting cash loans and advances to AIG by
its subsidiaries. Largely as a result of these restrictions,
approximately 81 percent of the aggregate equity of
AIG s consolidated subsidiaries was restricted from
immediate transfer to AIG parent at December 31, 2007.

Dividends declared per common share were $0.77, $0.65, and $0.63
in 2007, 2006, and 2005, respectively.

During 2007 and 2005, AIG repurchased 76 million and
2 million shares of its common stock, respectively, at a
total cost of $5.1 billion and $165 million,
respectively. The average price paid per share for repurchased
shares was $66.84 and $66.46 in 2007 and 2005, respectively.
During 2006, AIG did not purchase any shares of its common stock
under its existing share repurchase authorization.

At December 31, 2007, there were 6,000,000 shares of
AIG s $5 par value serial preferred stock authorized,
issuable in series, none of which were outstanding.

180         AIG
2007 Form  10-K 

Table of Contents   

American International Group, Inc. and Subsidiaries

14. Shareholders  Equity and
Earnings Per Share  

Continued 

Earnings Per Share

Basic earnings per share is based on the weighted average number
of common shares outstanding, adjusted to reflect all stock
dividends and stock splits. Diluted earnings per share is based
on those shares used in basic earnings per share plus shares
that would have been outstanding assuming issuance of common
shares for all dilutive potential common shares outstanding,
adjusted to reflect all stock dividends and stock splits.

The computation of earnings per share
for the years ended December 31, 2007, 2006 and 2005 was as
follows:  

*   
     
     Certain shares arising from employee stock plans were not
    included in the computation of diluted earnings per share if the
    exercise price of the options exceeded the average market price
    and were antidilutive. The number of shares excluded were
    8 million, 13 million and 19 million for the
    years ended December 31, 2007, 2006 and 2005,
    respectively.  

AIG 2007
Form  10-K          
181 

Table of Contents   

American International Group, Inc. and Subsidiaries

Notes to Consolidated Financial
Statements    Continued  

15. Statutory Financial
Data  

Statutory surplus and net income for
General Insurance and Life Insurance & Retirement
Services operations in accordance with statutory accounting
practices were as follows:  

(a)  
     
     Statutory surplus and net income with respect to foreign
    operations are estimated at November 30. The basis of
    presentation for branches of AIA is the Hong Kong statutory
    filing basis. The basis of presentation for branches of ALICO is
    the U.S. statutory filing basis. AIG Star Life, AIG Edison Life,
    Nan Shan and Philamlife are estimated based on their respective
    local country filing basis.  

(b)  
     
     Includes realized capital gains and losses and taxes.  

(c)  
     
     Includes catastrophe losses, net of tax, of $177 million
    and $1.9 billion in 2007 and 2005, respectively.  

AIG s insurance subsidiaries file financial statements
prepared in accordance with statutory accounting practices
prescribed or permitted by domestic and foreign insurance
regulatory authorities. The differences between statutory
financial statements and financial statements prepared in
accordance with U.S. GAAP vary between domestic and foreign
by jurisdiction. The principal differences are that statutory
financial statements do not reflect DAC, some bond portfolios
may be carried at amortized cost, assets and liabilities are
presented net of reinsurance, policyholder liabilities are
generally valued using more conservative assumptions and certain
assets are non-admitted.

At December 31, 2007, 2006 and 2005, statutory capital of
AIG s insurance subsidiaries exceeded minimum company
action level requirements. In 2005, AIG nonetheless contributed
an additional $750 million of capital into American Home
Assurance Company (American Home) effective September 30,
2005 and contributed a further $2.25 billion of capital in
February 2006 for a total of approximately $3 billion of
capital into Domestic General Insurance subsidiaries effective
December 31, 2005.

16. Fair Value of Financial
Instruments  

FAS 107,  Disclosures about Fair Value of Financial
Instruments  (FAS 107), requires disclosure of fair
value information about financial instruments for which it is
practicable to estimate such fair value. FAS 107 excludes
certain financial instruments, including those related to
insurance contracts and lease contracts.

The fair value of a financial instrument is the amount that
would be received to sell an asset or paid to transfer a
liability in an orderly transaction between market participants
at the measurement date. The degree of judgment used in
measuring the fair value of financial instruments generally
correlates with the level of pricing observability. Financial
instruments with quoted prices in active markets generally have
more pricing observability and less judgment is used in
measuring fair value. Conversely, financial instruments traded
in other than active markets or that do not have quoted prices
have less observability and are measured at fair value using
valuation models or other pricing techniques that require more
judgment. Pricing observability is affected by a number of
factors, including the type of financial instrument, whether the
financial instrument is new to the market and not yet
established, the characteristics specific to the transaction and
general market conditions.

Fixed maturities, equity securities, securities available for
sale, trading securities and securities sold under agreements to
repurchase:  AIG maximizes the use of observable inputs and
minimizes the use of unobservable inputs when measuring fair
value. AIG obtains market price data to value financial
instruments whenever such information is available. Market price
data generally is obtained from market exchanges or dealer
quotations. The types of instruments valued based on market
price data include G-7 government and agency securities,
equities listed in active markets, and investments in publicly
traded mutual funds with quoted market prices.

AIG estimates the fair value of fixed income instruments not
traded in active markets by referring to traded securities with
similar attributes and using a matrix pricing methodology. This
methodology considers such factors as the issuer s
industry, the security s rating and tenor, its coupon rate,
its position in the capital structure of the issuer, and other
relevant factors. The types of fixed income instruments not
traded in active markets include non-G-7 government securities,
municipal bonds, certain hybrid financial instruments, most
investment-grade and high-yield corporate bonds, and most
mortgage- and asset-backed products.

AIG initially estimates the fair value of equity instruments not
traded in active markets by reference to the transaction price.
This valuation is adjusted only when changes to inputs and
assumptions are corroborated by evidence such as transactions in
similar instruments, completed or pending third-party
transactions in the underlying investment or comparable
entities, subsequent rounds of financing, recapitalizations and
other transactions across the capital structure, offerings in
the equity capital markets, and changes in financial ratios or
cash flows.

For equity and fixed income instruments that are not traded in
active markets or that are subject to transfer restrictions,
valuations are adjusted to reflect illiquidity and/or
non-transferability, and such adjustments generally are based on
available market evidence. In the absence of such evidence,
management s best estimate is used.

Unrealized gain (loss) on swaps,
options and forward transactions:   Unrealized gain
(loss) on swaps, options and forward transactions
(derivative assets and liabilities) can be exchange-traded or
traded over the counter (OTC). AIG generally values
exchange-traded derivatives within portfolios using models that
calibrate to market clearing levels and that eliminate timing

182         AIG
2007 Form  10-K 

Table of Contents   

American International Group, Inc. and Subsidiaries

16. Fair Value of Financial
Instruments  

Continued 

differences between the closing price of the exchange-traded
derivatives and their underlying instruments.

OTC derivatives are valued using market transactions and other
market evidence whenever possible, including market-based inputs
to models, model calibration to market clearing transactions,
broker or dealer quotations or alternative pricing sources with
reasonable levels of price transparency. When models are used,
the selection of a particular model to value an OTC derivative
depends on the contractual terms of, and specific risks inherent
in, the instrument as well as the availability of pricing
information in the market. AIG generally uses similar models to
value similar instruments. Valuation models require a variety of
inputs, including contractual terms, market prices and rates,
yield curves, credit curves, measures of volatility, prepayment
rates and correlations of such inputs. For OTC derivatives that
trade in liquid markets, such as generic forwards, swaps and
options, model inputs can generally be verified and model
selection does not involve significant management judgment.

Certain OTC derivatives trade in less liquid markets with
limited pricing information, and the determination of fair value
for these derivatives is inherently more difficult. When AIG
does not have corroborating market evidence to support
significant model inputs and cannot verify the model to market
transactions, transaction price is initially used as the best
estimate of fair value. Accordingly, when a pricing model is
used to value such an instrument, the model is adjusted so that
the model value at inception equals the transaction price.
Subsequent to initial recognition, AIG updates valuation inputs
when corroborated by evidence such as similar market
transactions, third-party pricing services and/or broker or
dealer quotations, or other empirical market data. When
appropriate, valuations are adjusted for various factors such as
liquidity, bid/offer spreads and credit considerations. Such
adjustments are generally based on available market evidence. In
the absence of such evidence, management s best estimate is
used.

Mortgage and other loans receivable:  When practical, the
fair values of loans on real estate and collateral loans were
estimated using discounted cash flow calculations based upon
AIG s current incremental lending rates for similar type
loans. The fair values of the policy loans were not calculated
as AIG believes it would have to expend excessive costs for the
benefits derived.

Finance receivables:  Fair values were estimated using
discounted cash flow calculations based upon the weighted
average rates currently being offered for similar finance
receivables.

Securities lending invested collateral and securities lending
payable:  Securities lending collateral are floating rate
fixed maturity securities recorded at fair value. Fair values
were based upon quoted market prices or internally developed
models consistent with the methodology for other fixed maturity
securities. The contract values of securities lending payable
approximate fair value as these obligations are short-term in
nature.

Spot commodities:  Fair values were based on current
market prices of reference spot futures contracts traded on
exchanges.

Cash, short-term investments, trade receivables, trade
payables, securities purchased (sold) under agreements to
resell (repurchase), commercial paper and extendible commercial
notes:  The carrying values of these assets and liabilities
approximate fair values because of the relatively short period
of time between origination and expected realization.

Other invested assets:  Consisting principally of hedge
funds and limited partnerships. Fair values are determined based
on the net asset values provided by the general partner or
manager of each investment. AIG obtains the fair value of its
investments in limited partnerships and hedge funds from
information provided by the general partner or manager of these
investments, the accounts of which generally are audited on an
annual basis. The transaction price is used as the best estimate
of fair value at inception.

Policyholders  contract deposits:  Fair values were
estimated using discounted cash flow calculations based upon
interest rates currently being offered for similar contracts
with maturities consistent with those remaining for the
contracts being valued.

Securities and spot commodities sold but not yet
purchased:  The carrying amounts for the securities and spot
commodities sold but not yet purchased approximate fair values.
Fair values for securities and spot commodities sold short were
based on current market prices.

Trust deposits and deposits due to banks and other
depositors:  To the extent certain amounts are not demand
deposits or certificates of deposit which mature in more than
one year, fair values were not calculated as AIG believes it
would have to expend excessive costs for the benefits derived.

Commercial paper and extendible commercial notes:  The
carrying amount approximates fair value.

Long-term borrowings:  When practical, the fair values of
these obligations were estimated using discounted cash flow
calculations based upon AIG s current incremental borrowing
rates for similar types of borrowings with maturities consistent
with those remaining for the debt being valued.

AIG 2007
Form  10-K          
183 

Table of Contents   

American International Group, Inc. and Subsidiaries

Notes to Consolidated Financial
Statements    Continued  

16. Fair Value of Financial
Instruments  

Continued 

The carrying values and fair values of
AIG s financial instruments at December 31, 2007 and
2006 were as follows:  

(a) The carrying value of all other financial
instruments approximates fair value. 

(b) Excludes aircraft asset investments held by
non-Financial Services subsidiaries. 

17. Share-based Employee
Compensation Plans  

During the year ended December 31, 2007, AIG employees had
received compensation pursuant to awards under seven different
share-based employee compensation plans:  (i)  AIG
1999 Stock Option Plan, as amended (1999 Plan);
 (ii)  AIG 1996 Employee Stock Purchase Plan, as
amended (1996 Plan);  (iii)  AIG 2002 Stock Incentive
Plan, as amended (2002 Plan) under which AIG has issued
time-vested restricted stock units (RSUs) and performance
restricted stock units (performance RSUs);  (iv)  AIG
2007 Stock Incentive Plan, as amended (2007 Plan);
 (v)  SICO s Deferred Compensation Profit
Participation Plans (SICO Plans);  (vi)  AIG s
2005-2006 Deferred Compensation Profit Participation Plan (AIG
DCPPP) and  (vii)  the AIG Partners Plan. The AIG
DCPPP was adopted as a replacement for the SICO Plans for the
2005-2006 period, and the AIG Partners Plan replaced the AIG
DCPPP. Share-based employee compensation earned under the AIG
DCPPP was granted as time-vested RSUs under the 2002 Plan.
Share-based employee compensation awarded under the AIG Partners
Plan was granted as performance-based RSUs under the 2002 Plan,
except for the December 2007 grant which was made under the
2007 Plan. All future grants will be made under the 2007
Plan. Although awards granted under all the plans described
above remained outstanding at December 31, 2007, future
grants of options, RSUs and performance RSUs can be made only
under the 2007 Plan. AIG currently settles share option
exercises and other share awards to participants by issuing
shares it previously acquired and holds in its treasury account,
except for share awards made by SICO, which are settled by SICO.

In 2006 and for prior years, AIG s non-employee directors
received share-based compensation in the form of options granted
pursuant to the 1999 Plan and grants of AIG common stock with
delivery deferred until retirement from the Board, pursuant to
the AIG Director Stock Plan, which was approved by the
shareholders at the 2004 Annual Meeting of Shareholders and
which is now a subplan under the 2007 Plan. From and after
May 16, 2007, non-employee directors receive deferred stock
units (DSUs) under the 2007 Plan with delivery deferred until
retirement from the Board.

From January 1, 2003 through December 31, 2005, AIG
accounted for share-based payment transactions with employees
under FAS 123,  Accounting for Stock-Based
Compensation.  Share-based employee compensation expense
from option awards was not recognized in the consolidated
statement of income in prior periods. Effective January 1,
2006, AIG adopted the fair

184         AIG
2007 Form  10-K 

Table of Contents   

American International Group, Inc. and Subsidiaries

17. Share-based Employee
Compensation Plans  

Continued 

value recognition provisions of FAS 123R. FAS 123R
requires that companies use a fair value method to value
share-based payments and recognize the related compensation
expense in net earnings. AIG adopted FAS 123R using the
modified prospective application method, and accordingly,
financial statement amounts for the prior periods presented have
not been restated to reflect the fair value method of expensing
share-based compensation under FAS 123R. The modified
prospective application method requires recognition of the fair
value of share-based compensation for shares subscribed for or
granted on or after January 1, 2006 and all previously
granted but unvested awards at January 1, 2006.

The adoption of FAS 123R resulted in share-based
compensation expense of approximately $17 million during
2006, related to awards that were accounted for under Accounting
Principles Board Opinion 25,  Accounting for Stock
Issued to Employees.  FAS 123R also requires AIG to
estimate forfeitures in calculating the expense relating to
share-based compensation, rather than recognizing these
forfeitures and corresponding reductions in expense as they
occur. The cumulative effect of adoption of $46 million was
recorded as a cumulative effect of an accounting change, net of
tax. FAS 123R requires AIG to reflect the cash savings
resulting from excess tax benefits in its financial statements
as cash flow from financing activities, rather than as cash flow
from operating activities as in prior periods. The amount of
this excess tax benefit in 2007 and 2006 was $26.1 million
and $27.9 million, respectively.

Included in AIG s consolidated statement of income for the
years ended December 31, 2007 and 2006 was pre-tax
share-based compensation expense of $275 million
($216 million after tax), and $353 million
($326 million after tax), respectively. Share-based
compensation expense in 2006 included a one-time compensation
cost of approximately $54 million related to the Starr
tender offer and various out of period adjustments totaling
$61 million, primarily relating to stock splits and other
miscellaneous items for the SICO Plans. See Note 19 herein
for a discussion of the Starr tender offer.

1999 Stock Option Plan

The 1999 Plan was approved by the shareholders at the 2000
Annual Meeting of Shareholders, with certain amendments approved
at the 2003 Annual Meeting of Shareholders. The 1999 Plan
superseded the 1991 Employee Stock Option Plan (the 1991 Plan),
although outstanding options granted under the 1991 Plan
continue until exercise or expiration. Options granted under the
1999 Plan generally vest over four years (25 percent
vesting per year) and expire 10 years from the date of
grant. The 2007 Plan supersedes the 1999 Plan.

At December 31, 2007, there were no shares reserved
for future grants under the 1999 Plan and 36,363,769 shares
reserved for issuance under the 1999 and 1991 Plans.

Deferrals

At December 31, 2007, AIG was obligated to issue
12,521,342 shares in connection with previous exercises of
options with delivery deferred.

Valuation

AIG uses a binomial lattice model to calculate the fair value of
stock option grants. A more detailed description of the
valuation methodology is provided below.

The following weighted-average
assumptions were used for stock options granted in 2007, 2006
and 2005:  

(a)  
     
     The dividend yield is determined at the grant date.  

(b)  
     
     In 2007, expected volatility is the average of historical
    volatility (based on seven years of daily stock price changes)
    and the implied volatility of actively traded options on AIG
    shares.  

(c)  
     
     The interest rate curves used in the valuation model were the
    U.S. Treasury STRIP rates with terms from 3 months to
    10 years.  

(d)  
     
     The contractual term of the option is generally 10 years
    with an expected term of 7 years calculated based on an
    analysis of historical employee exercise behavior and employee
    turnover (post-vesting terminations). The early exercise rate is
    a function of time elapsed since the grant. Fifteen years of
    historical data were used to estimate the early exercise
    rate.  

AIG 2007
Form  10-K          
185 

Table of Contents   

American International Group, Inc. and Subsidiaries

Notes to Consolidated Financial
Statements    Continued  

17. Share-based Employee
Compensation Plans  

Continued 

Additional information with respect to
AIG s stock option plans at December 31, 2007, and
changes for the year then ended, were as follows:  

Vested and
 expected-to -vest
options at December 31, 2007, included in the table above,
totaled 34,349,762, with a weighted average exercise price of
$64.14, a weighted average contractual life of 4.46 years
and an aggregate intrinsic value of $57 million.

At December 31, 2007, total unrecognized compensation cost
(net of expected forfeitures) was $100 million and
$3 million related to non-vested share-based compensation
awards granted under the 1999 Plan and the 1996 Plan,
respectively, with blended weighted average periods of
1.38 years and 0.41 years, respectively. The cost of
awards outstanding under these plans at December 31, 2007
is expected to be recognized over approximately four years and
one year, respectively, for the 1999 Plan and the 1996 Plan.

The intrinsic value of options exercised during 2007 was
approximately $360 million. The fair value of options
vesting during 2007 was approximately $63 million. AIG
received $482 million and $104 million in cash during
2007 and 2006, respectively, from the exercise of stock options.
The tax benefits realized as a result of stock option exercises
were $16 million and $35 million in 2007 and 2006,
respectively.

2002 Stock Incentive Plan

The 2002 Plan was adopted at the 2002 Annual Meeting of
shareholders and amended and restated by AIG s Board of
Directors on September 18, 2002. During 2007 and 2006,
179,106 and 6,836,785 RSUs, respectively, including performance
RSUs, were granted under the 2002 Plan. Because the 2002 Plan
has been superseded by the 2007 Plan, there were no shares
reserved for issuance in connection with future awards at
December 31, 2007. Substantially all time-vested RSUs
granted under the 2002 Plan vest on the fourth anniversary of
the date of grant.

2007 Stock Incentive Plan

The 2007 Plan was adopted at the 2007 Annual Meeting of
shareholders and amended and restated by AIG s Board of
Directors on November 14, 2007. The 2007 Plan supersedes
the 1999 Plan and the 2002 Plan. During 2007,
7,121,252 RSUs, including performance RSUs were granted
under the 2007 Plan. Each RSU, performance RSU and DSU awarded
reduces the number of shares available for future grants by
2.9 shares. At December 31, 2007, there were
157,562,672 shares reserved for issuance under the 2007
Plan. A significant majority of the time-vested RSUs granted in
2007 under the 2007 Plan vest on the fourth anniversary of the
date of grant.

Non-Employee Director Stock Awards

The methodology used for valuing employee stock options is also
used to value director stock options. Director stock options
vest one year after the grant date, but are otherwise the same
as employee stock options. Commencing in 2007, directors no
longer receive awards of options. Options with respect to
40,000 shares and 32,500 shares were granted during
2006 and 2005, respectively.

In 2007, AIG granted to directors 22,542 DSUs, including
DSUs representing dividend-equivalent amounts. AIG also granted
to directors 6,375 shares, 14,000 shares and
6,250 shares, with delivery deferred, during 2007, 2006 and
2005, respectively, under the Director Stock Plan.

186         AIG
2007 Form  10-K 

Table of Contents   

American International Group, Inc. and Subsidiaries

17. Share-based Employee
Compensation Plans  

Continued 

Employee Stock Purchase Plan

AIG s 1996 Plan provides that eligible employees (those
employed at least one year) may receive privileges to purchase
up to an aggregate of 10,000,000 shares of AIG common
stock, at a price equal to 85 percent of the fair market
value on the date of the grant of the purchase privilege.
Purchase privileges are granted quarterly and are limited to the
number of whole shares that can be purchased on an annual basis
by an amount equal to the lesser of 10 percent of an
employee s annual salary or $10,000.

SICO Plans

The SICO Plans provide that shares of AIG common stock currently
held by SICO are set aside for the benefit of the participant
and distributed upon retirement. The SICO Board of Directors
currently may permit an early payout of shares under certain
circumstances. Prior to payout, the participant is not entitled
to vote, dispose of or receive dividends with respect to such
shares, and shares are subject to forfeiture under certain
conditions, including but not limited to the participant s
termination of employment with AIG prior to normal retirement
age.

Historically, SICO s Board of Directors could elect to pay
a participant cash in lieu of shares of AIG common stock. On
December 9, 2005, SICO notified participants that
essentially all subsequent distributions would be made only in
shares, and not cash. At that date, AIG modified its accounting
for the SICO Plans from variable to fixed measurement
accounting. Variable measurement accounting is used for those
few awards for which cash elections had been made prior to March
2005. At December 9, 2005, there were 12,650,292 non-vested
AIG shares under the SICO Plans with a weighted average fair
value per share of $61.92. The SICO Plans are also described in
Note 19 herein.

Although none of the costs of the various benefits provided
under the SICO Plans have been paid by AIG, AIG has recorded
compensation expense for the deferred compensation amounts
payable to AIG employees by SICO, with an offsetting amount
credited to additional paid-in capital reflecting amounts deemed
contributed by SICO.

A significant portion of the awards under the SICO Plans vest
the year after the participant reaches age 65, provided
that the participant remains employed by AIG through age 65. The
portion of the awards for which early payout is available vest
on the applicable payout date.

AIG DCPPP

In September 2005, AIG adopted the AIG DCPPP to provide
share-based compensation to key AIG employees, including senior
executive officers. The AIG DCPPP was modeled on the SICO Plans.

The AIG DCPPP contingently allocated a fixed number of
time-vested RSUs to each participant if AIG s cumulative
adjusted earnings per share in 2005 and 2006 exceeded that in
2003 and 2004 as determined by AIG s Compensation
Committee. This goal was met, and pursuant to the terms of the
DCPPP Plan, 3,696,836 time-vested RSUs were awarded in
2007. These RSUs vest in three pre-retirement installments and a
final retirement installment at age 65.

At December 31, 2007, RSU awards with respect to
3,272,268 shares remained outstanding.

AIG Partners Plan

On June 26, 2006, AIG s Compensation Committee
approved two grants under the AIG Partners Plan. The first grant
had a performance period that ran from January 1, 2006
through December 31, 2007. The second grant has a
performance period that runs from January 1, 2007 through
December 31, 2008. In December 2007, the Compensation
Committee approved a grant with a performance period from
January 1, 2008 through December 31, 2009. The
Compensation Committee will approve the performance metrics for
this grant in the first quarter of 2008. All grants vest
50 percent on the fourth and sixth anniversaries of the
first day of the related performance period. The Compensation
Committee approved the performance metrics for the first two
grants prior to the date of grant. The measurement of the first
two grants is deemed to have occurred on June 26, 2006 when
there was mutual understanding of the key terms and conditions
of the first two grants. In 2007, no compensation cost was
recognized, and compensation cost recognized in 2006 was
reversed, for the first grant under the Partners Plan because
the performance threshold for these awards was not met.

Valuation

The fair value of each award granted under the plans described
above is based on the closing price of AIG stock on the date of
grant.

AIG 2007
Form  10-K          
187 

Table of Contents   

American International Group, Inc. and Subsidiaries

Notes to Consolidated Financial
Statements    Continued  

17. Share-based Employee
Compensation Plans  

Continued  

The following table presents a summary
of shares relating to outstanding awards unvested under the
foregoing plans at December 31, 2007, and changes for the
year then
ended *    :

*   
     
     Options and DSUs awarded under the 2007 Plan are not
    included. For the AIG DCPPP, includes all incremental shares
    granted or to be granted.  

The total unrecognized compensation
cost (net of expected forfeitures) related to non-vested
share-based compensation awards granted under the 2002 Plan, the
2007 Plan, the AIG DCPPP, and the SICO Plans at
December 31, 2007 and the blended weighted-average periods
over which those costs are expected to be recognized at
December 31, 2007 are as follows:  

The total cost for awards outstanding at December 31, 2007
under the 2002 Plan, the 2007 Plan, the AIG DCPPP and the SICO
Plans is expected to be recognized over approximately
4 years, 4 years, 32 years and 32 years,
respectively.

18. Employee Benefits  

Pension Plans  

AIG, its subsidiaries and certain affiliated companies, offer
various defined benefit plans to eligible employees based on
either completion of a specified period of continuous service or
date of hire, subject to age limitations.

AIG s U.S. retirement plan is a qualified, noncontributory
defined benefit plan which is subject to the provisions of
ERISA. U.S. employees who are employed by a participating
company, have attained age 21 and completed twelve months of
continuous service are eligible to participate in this plan.
Employees generally vest after 5 years of service.
Unreduced benefits are paid to retirees at normal retirement
(age 65) and are based upon a percentage of final average
compensation multiplied by years of credited service, up to
44 years. Non-U.S. defined benefit plans are generally
either based on the employee s years of credited service
and compensation in the years preceding retirement, or on points
accumulated based on the employee s job grade and other
factors during each year of service.

In 2007, AIG acquired the outstanding minority interest of 21st
Century. Assets, obligations and costs with respect to 21st
Century s plans are included herein. The assumptions used
by 21st Century in its plans were not significantly different
from those used by AIG in AIG s U.S. plans.

AIG also sponsors several unfunded defined benefit plans for
certain employees, including key executives, designed to
supplement pension benefits provided by AIG s other
retirement plans. These include the AIG Excess Retirement Income
Plan, which provides a benefit equal to the reduction in
benefits payable to certain employees under the AIG U.S.
retirement plan as a result of federal tax limitations on
compensation and benefits payable, and the Supplemental
Executive Retirement Plan (Supplemental Plan), which provides
additional retirement benefits to designated executives. Under
the Supplemental Plan, an annual benefit accrues at a percentage
of final average pay multiplied by each year of credited
service, not greater than 60 percent of final average pay,
reduced by any benefits from the current and any predecessor
retirement plans (including the AIG Excess Retirement Income
Plan and any comparable plans), Social Security, if any, and
from any qualified pension plan of prior employers.

Postretirement Plans  

AIG and its subsidiaries also provide postretirement medical
care and life insurance benefits in the U.S. and in certain
 non-U.S.  countries.
Eligibility in the various plans is generally based upon
completion of a specified period of eligible service and
attaining a specified age. Overseas, benefits vary by geographic
location.

U.S. postretirement medical and life insurance benefits are
based upon the employee electing immediate retirement and having
a minimum of ten years of service. Medical benefits are
contributory, while the life insurance benefits are
non-contributory. Retiree medical contributions vary with age
and length of service and range from requiring no cost for
pre-1989 retirees to requiring actual premium payments reduced
by certain credits for post-1993 retirees. These contributions
are subject to adjustment annually. Other cost sharing features
of the medical plan include deductibles, coinsurance and
Medicare coordination and a lifetime maximum benefit of
$2 million.

188         AIG
2007 Form  10-K 

Table of Contents   

American International Group, Inc. and Subsidiaries

18. Employee Benefits  

Continued 

The following table presents the funded
status of the plans, reconciled to the amount reported in the
consolidated balance sheet at December 31, 2007 and 2006.
The measurement date for some of the
 non-U.S.  defined
benefit pension and postretirement plans is November 30,
consistent with the fiscal year end of the sponsoring companies.
For all other plans, measurement occurs as of December 31,
2007.  

(a)   
     
     AIG does not currently fund postretirement benefits.  

(b)   
     
     Includes unfunded plans for which the aggregate pension
    benefit obligation was $559 million and $494 million
    at December 2007, and 2006, respectively. For 2007 and 2006,
    approximately 83% pertain to Japanese plans, which are not
    required by local regulation to be funded. The projected benefit
    obligation for these plans total $464 million and
    $414 million, respectively.  

(c)   
     
     Includes non-qualified unfunded plans, for which the
    aggregate projected benefit obligation was $240 million and
    $228 million at December 2007 and 2006, respectively.  

AIG 2007
Form  10-K          
189 

Table of Contents   

American International Group, Inc. and Subsidiaries

Notes to Consolidated Financial
Statements    Continued  

18. Employee Benefits  

Continued 

The accumulated benefit obligations for
both  non-U.S.  and
U.S. pension benefit plans at December 31, 2007 and
2006 were as follows:  

Defined benefit pension plan
obligations in which the projected benefit obligation was in
excess of the related plan assets and in which the accumulated
benefit obligation was in excess of the related plan assets at
December 31, 2007 and 2006 were as follows:  

The following table presents the
components of net periodic benefit cost recognized in income and
other amounts recognized in Accumulated other comprehensive
income (loss) with respect to the defined benefit pension plans
and other postretirement benefit plans for the year ended
December 31, 2007 and 2006 (no amounts related to the
adoption of FAS 158 were recognized in Accumulated other
comprehensive income (loss) for the year ended 2005):  

The estimated net loss and prior service credit that will be
amortized from Accumulated other comprehensive income into net
periodic benefit cost over the next fiscal year are
$31 million and $11 million, respectively, for
AIG s combined defined benefit pension plans. For the
defined benefit postretirement plans, the estimated amortization
from Accumulated other comprehensive income for net loss, prior
service credit and transition obligation that will be amortized
into net periodic benefit cost over the next fiscal year will be
less than $5 million in the aggregate.

190         AIG
2007 Form  10-K 

Table of Contents   

American International Group, Inc. and Subsidiaries

18. Employee Benefits  

Continued 

Assumptions  

The weighted average assumptions used
to determine the benefit obligations at December 31, 2007
and 2006 are as follows:  

The benefit obligations for
 non-U.S.  plans
reflect those assumptions that were most appropriate for the
local economic environments of each of the subsidiaries
providing such benefits.

Assumed health care cost trend rates
for the U.S. plans were as follows:  

A one percent point change in the
assumed healthcare cost trend rate would have the following
effect on AIG s postretirement benefit obligations at
December 31, 2007 and 2006:  

AIG s postretirement plans provide benefits primarily in
the form of defined employer contributions rather than defined
employer benefits. Changes in the assumed healthcare cost trend
rate are subject to caps for U.S. plans. AIG s non-U.S.
postretirement plans are not subject to caps.

AIG 2007
Form  10-K          
191 

Table of Contents   

American International Group, Inc. and Subsidiaries

Notes to Consolidated Financial
Statements    Continued  

18. Employee Benefits  

Continued 

The weighted average assumptions used
to determine the net periodic benefit costs for the years ended
December 31, 2007, 2006 and 2005 were as follows:  

*   
     
     The benefit obligations for
     non-U.S.  plans
    reflect those assumptions that were most appropriate for the
    local economic environments of the subsidiaries providing such
    benefits.  

Discount Rate Methodology  

The projected benefit cash flows under the AIG
U.S. Retirement Plan were discounted using the spot rates
derived from the Citigroup Pension Discount Curve at
December 31, 2007 and 2006 and an equivalent single
discount rate was derived resulting in the same liability. This
single discount rate was rounded to the nearest 25 basis
points, namely 6.5 percent and 6.0 percent at
December 31, 2007 and 2006, respectively. The rates applied
to other U.S. plans were not significantly different from
those discussed above.

Both funded and unfunded plans for Japan represent over
62 percent of the liabilities of the
 non-U.S.  pension
plans at December 31, 2007 and 2006, respectively. The
discount rate for Japan was selected by reference to the
published Moody s/ S&P AA Corporate Bond Universe at
the measurement date having regard to the duration of the
plans  liabilities.

Plan assets  

The asset allocation percentage by
major asset class for AIG s plans at December 31, 2007
and 2006, and the target allocation for 2008 follow:  

Other includes cash, insurance contracts, real estate, private
equity and hedge funds asset classes.

No shares of AIG common stock were included in the
U.S. plans at December 31, 2007 and 55,680 shares
of AIG common stock with a value of $4 million were
included in the U.S. plans at December 31, 2006.

The investment strategy with respect to AIG s pension plan
assets is designed to achieve investment returns that will fully
fund the pension plan over the long term, while limiting the
risk of under funding over shorter time periods.

The expected rate of return with respect to AIG s domestic
pension plan was 8.0 percent for years ended
December 31, 2007 and 2006. This rate of return is an
aggregation of expected returns within each asset category that,
when combined with AIG s contribution to the plan, will
maintain the plan s ability to meet all required benefit
obligations. The return with respect to each asset class
considers both historical returns and the future expectations
for such returns.

192         AIG
2007 Form  10-K 

Table of Contents   

American International Group, Inc. and Subsidiaries

18. Employee Benefits  

Continued 

Expected Cash Flows  

Funding for the U.S. pension plan ranges from the minimum
amount required by ERISA to the maximum amount that would be
deductible for U.S. tax purposes. This range is generally
not determined until the fourth quarter. Contributed amounts in
excess of the minimum amounts are deemed voluntary. Amounts in
excess of the maximum amount would be subject to an excise tax
and may not be deductible under the Internal Revenue Code.
Supplemental and excess plans  payments and postretirement
plan payments are deductible when paid.

During 2007 AIG contributed $396 million to its U.S. and
 non-U.S.  pension
plans. The annual pension contribution in 2008 is expected to be
approximately $118 million for U.S. and
 non-U.S.  plans.

The expected future benefit payments,
net of participants  contributions, with respect to the
defined benefit pension plans and other postretirement benefit
plans, are as follows:  

Defined Contribution Plans  

In addition to several small defined contribution plans, AIG
sponsors a voluntary savings plan for domestic employees (the
AIG Incentive Savings plan), which provides for salary reduction
contributions by employees and matching contributions by AIG of
up to seven percent of annual salary depending on the
employees  years of service. Pre-tax expense associated
with this plan was $114 million, $104 million and
$96 million in 2007, 2006 and 2005, respectively.

19. Benefits Provided by Starr
International Company, Inc. and C.V. Starr & Co.,
Inc.  

SICO has provided a series of two-year Deferred Compensation
Profit Participation Plans (SICO Plans) to certain AIG
employees. The SICO Plans came into being in 1975 when the
voting shareholders and Board of Directors of SICO, a private
holding company whose principal asset is AIG common stock,
decided that a portion of the capital value of SICO should be
used to provide an incentive plan for the current and succeeding
managements of all American International companies, including
AIG.

None of the costs of the various benefits provided under the
SICO Plans has been paid by AIG, although AIG has recorded a
charge to reported earnings for the deferred compensation
amounts paid to AIG employees by SICO, with an offsetting amount
credited to additional paid-in capital reflecting amounts deemed
contributed by SICO. The SICO Plans provide that shares
currently owned by SICO are set aside by SICO for the benefit of
the participant and distributed upon retirement. The SICO Board
of Directors currently may permit an early payout of units under
certain circumstances. Prior to payout, the participant is not
entitled to vote, dispose of or receive dividends with respect
to such shares, and shares are subject to forfeiture under
certain conditions, including but not limited to the
participant s voluntary termination of employment with AIG
prior to normal retirement age. Under the SICO Plans,
SICO s Board of Directors may elect to pay a participant
cash in lieu of shares of AIG common stock. Following
notification from SICO to participants in the SICO Plans that it
will settle specific future awards under the SICO Plans with
shares rather than cash, AIG modified its accounting for the
SICO Plans from variable to fixed measurement accounting. AIG
gave effect to this change in settlement method beginning on
December 9, 2005, the date of SICO s notice to
participants in the SICO Plans. See also Note 12(a)
Commitments herein.

Compensation expense in 2006 included various out of period
adjustments totaling $61 million, primarily relating to
stock-splits and other miscellaneous items for the SICO plans.
See also Note 17 herein.

In January 2006, C.V. Starr & Co., Inc. (Starr)
completed its tender offer to purchase Starr interests from AIG
employees. In conjunction with AIG s adoption of
FAS 123R, Starr is considered to be an  economic
interest holder  in AIG. As a result, compensation expense
of $54 million was recorded in 2006 results with respect to
the Starr tender offer.

As a result of its changing relationship with Starr and SICO,
AIG has established new executive compensation plans to replace
the SICO plans and investment opportunities previously provided
by Starr. See Note 17 for a description of these plans.

Compensation expense with respect to the SICO Plans aggregated
$39 million, $108 million and $205 million in
2007, 2006 and 2005, respectively.

20. Ownership and Transactions
With Related Parties  

(a) Ownership:  
According to the Schedule 13D filed on March 20, 2007
by Starr, SICO, Edward E. Matthews, Maurice R. Greenberg, the
Maurice R. and Corinne P. Greenberg Family Foundation, Inc., the
Universal Foundation, Inc., the Maurice R. and Corinne P.
Greenberg Joint Tenancy Company, LLC and the C.V.
Starr & Co., Inc. Trust, these reporting persons could
be deemed to beneficially own 354,987,261 shares of
AIG s common stock at that date. Based on the shares of
AIG s common stock outstanding at January 31, 2008,
this ownership would represent approximately 14.1 percent
of the voting stock of AIG. Although these reporting persons
have made filings under Section 16 of the Exchange Act,
reporting sales of shares of common stock, no amendment to the
Schedule 13D has been filed to report a change in ownership
subsequent to March 20, 2007.

(b) Transactions with Related
Parties:   Prior to the
termination of their agency relationships with Starr during
2006, AIG and

AIG 2007
Form  10-K          
193 

Table of Contents   

American International Group, Inc. and Subsidiaries

Notes to Consolidated Financial
Statements    Continued  

20. Ownership and Transactions
With Related Parties  

Continued 

its subsidiaries paid commissions to Starr and its subsidiaries
for the production and management of insurance business in the
ordinary course of business. Payment for the production of
insurance business to Starr aggregated approximately
$12 million in 2007, $47 million in 2006, and
$214 million in 2005. AIG also received no rental fees in
2007, approximately $4 million in 2006, and
$23 million in 2005 from Starr, and paid no rental fees in
2007 or 2006 and approximately $20,000 in 2005 to Starr. AIG
also received none in 2007 and 2006 and approximately
$2 million in 2005, respectively, from SICO, and paid none
in 2007 and 2006 and approximately $1 million in 2005 to
SICO, as reimbursement for services rendered at cost. AIG also
paid to SICO $2 million in 2007, $2 million in 2006,
and $3 million in 2005 in rental fees. There are no
significant receivables from/payables to related parties at
December 31, 2007.

21. Federal Income Taxes  

Tax Filings 

AIG and its eligible U.S. subsidiaries file a consolidated
U.S. federal income tax return. Prior to 2007, Life
Insurance subsidiaries of AIG Life Holdings (US), Inc. (AIGLH),
formerly known as American General Corporation, also filed
a consolidated U.S. federal income tax return and were not
eligible to be included in AIG s consolidated federal
income tax return. AIGLH will be included in the 2007 AIG
consolidated federal income tax return. Other U.S. subsidiaries
included in the consolidated financial statements also file
separate U.S. federal income tax returns. Subsidiaries
operating outside the U.S. are taxed, and income tax
expense is recorded, based on applicable U.S. and foreign
statutes.

Undistributed Earnings and Distributions from Life Surplus 

U.S. federal income taxes have not been provided on
$1.5 billion of undistributed earnings of certain
U.S. subsidiaries that are not included in the consolidated
AIG U.S. federal income tax return. Tax planning strategies
are available, and would be utilized, to eliminate the tax
liability related to these earnings. U.S. federal income
taxes have not been provided on the undistributed earnings of
certain
 non-U.S.  subsidiaries
to the extent that such earnings have been reinvested abroad
indefinitely. At December 31, 2007, the cumulative amount
of undistributed earnings in these subsidiaries approximated
$21.2 billion. Determining the deferred tax liability that
would arise if these earnings were not permanently reinvested
abroad is not practicable.

A component of life insurance surplus accumulated prior to 1984
is not taxable unless it exceeds certain statutory limitations
or is distributed to shareholders. The American Jobs Creation
Act of 2004 amended the federal income tax law to permit life
insurance companies to distribute amounts from their
policyholders  surplus accounts in 2005 and 2006 without
incurring federal income tax on the distributions. In 2005 and
2006, AIG made distributions and eliminated the aggregate
balance of $945 million from its policyholders 
surplus accounts.

Tax Examinations 

In December 2007, AIG reached a settlement with the IRS in the
United States Tax Court for SunAmerica, Inc. and Subsidiaries
( SunAmerica ) for tax years ended September 30,
1993 and September 30, 1994, which are years prior to
AIG s 1999 acquisition of SunAmerica. The terms of this
settlement will be incorporated into the IRS examinations for
tax years of SunAmerica from September 30, 1995 through
December 31, 1998, and for SunAmerica Life Insurance
Company and Subsidiaries for tax year December 31, 1999, to
resolve these years. As a result of this settlement, a net
refund is due AIG for the periods from 1993 to 1999, the amount
of which is immaterial to AIG s consolidated financial
condition. The IRS s examination of the separate life
consolidated federal return for SunAmerica Life and its
subsidiaries for years 2000-2002 was closed in January 2008 with
a signed settlement agreement. An immaterial amount is payable
to the IRS for these years. AIG is in a net refund position for
all years 1993-2002 for aggregated SunAmerica audits.

AIGLH s tax years prior to 2000 are closed. Although a
Revenue Agent s Report has not yet been issued to AIGLH for
years ended December 31, 2000, August 29, 2001,
December 31, 2001, and December 31, 2002, AIGLH has
received from the IRS a notice of proposed adjustment for
certain items during that period.

The statute of limitations for all tax years prior to 1997 has
now expired for AIG s consolidated federal income tax
return. In June, 2007, AIG filed a refund claim for years
 1991-1996.  The refund
claim relates to the tax effects of the restatements of
AIG s 2004 and prior financial statements. A refund claim
for the tax years ending December 31, 1997-2004 will be
filed before September 30, 2008.

AIG has executed a partial settlement with the IRS for tax years
1997 through 1999. Two issues remain open, neither one of which,
separately or in total, is material to AIG s consolidated
financial condition. The statute of limitations for these years
expires on March 31, 2008. AIG is currently under
examination for the tax years 2000 through 2002.

AIG believes there are substantial arguments in support of the
tax positions taken in its tax returns. Although the final
outcome of any issue still outstanding is uncertain, AIG
believes that any tax obligation, including interest thereon,
would not be material to AIG s consolidated financial
condition, results of operations, or liquidity.

194         AIG
2007 Form  10-K 

Table of Contents   

American International Group, Inc. and Subsidiaries

21. Federal Income Taxes  

Continued 

The pretax components of U.S. and
foreign income reflect the locations in which such pretax income
was generated. The pretax U.S. and foreign income was as follows
for the years ended December 31, 2007, 2006 and
2005:  

The provision for income taxes for the
years ended December 31, 2007, 2006 and 2005 consists of
the following:  

The U.S. federal income tax rate
was 35 percent for 2007, 2006 and 2005. Actual tax expense
on income differs from the  expected  amount computed
by applying the federal income tax rate because of the
following:  

AIG 2007
Form  10-K          
195 

Table of Contents   

American International Group, Inc. and Subsidiaries

Notes to Consolidated Financial
Statements    Continued  

21. Federal Income Taxes  

Continued 

The components of the net deferred tax
liability at December 31, 2007 and 2006 were as
follows:  

*   
     
     AIG has recorded deferred tax assets for alternative minimum
    tax credit carry forwards of $101 million and
    $222 million at December 31, 2007 and 2006,
    respectively. In 2007, AIG generated net operating loss
    carryforwards, unused foreign tax credits and general business
    tax credits in the amount of $4.2 billion,
    $130 million and $125 million, respectively. Net
    operating loss carryforwards and general business tax credits
    may be carried forward for twenty years while foreign tax
    credits may be carried forward for ten years. Unused minimum tax
    credits are available for future use without expiration.  

A reconciliation of the beginning and ending balances of the
total amounts of gross unrecognized tax benefits is as
follows: 

At December 31, 2007, AIG s unrecognized tax benefits,
excluding interest and penalties, were $1.3 billion, which
includes $299 million related to tax positions the
disallowance of which would not affect the annual effective
income tax rate. Accordingly, the amount of unrecognized tax
benefits that, if recognized, would favorably affect the
effective tax rate were $1.0 billion.

Interest and penalties related to unrecognized tax benefits are
recognized in income tax expense. At January 1, 2007 and
December 31, 2007, AIG had accrued $175 million and
$281 million, respectively, for the payment of interest
(net of the federal benefit) and penalties. For the year ended
December 31, 2007, AIG recognized $170 million of
interest (net of the federal benefit) and penalties in the
Consolidated Statement of Income.

AIG continually evaluates adjustments proposed by taxing
authorities. At December 31, 2007, such proposed
adjustments would not result in a material change to AIG s
consolidated financial condition. However, AIG believes that it
is reasonably possible that the balance of the unrecognized tax
benefits could decrease by $50 to $150 million within the
next twelve months due to settlements or the expiration of
statutes.

Listed below are the tax years that
remain subject to examination by major tax
jurisdictions:  

The reserve for uncertain tax positions increased in the fourth
quarter 2007 by $210 million for items attributable to
prior restatements, including certain tax positions associated
with compensation deductions. In addition, income tax expense
has been reduced by $162 million for interest receivable
from the IRS attributable to refund claims for prior
restatements.

196         AIG
2007 Form  10-K 

Table of Contents   

American International Group, Inc. and Subsidiaries

22. Quarterly Financial
Information (Unaudited)  

The following quarterly financial
information for each of the three months ended March 31,
June 30, September 30 and December 31, 2007 and
2006 is unaudited. However, in the opinion of management, all
adjustments (consisting only of normal recurring adjustments)
necessary for a fair statement of the results of operations for
such periods, have been made.  

Consolidated Statements of Operations 

*   
     
     Both revenues and operating income include (i) an
    unrealized market valuation loss of $352 million and
    $11.1 billion in the third quarter and fourth quarter of
    2007, respectively, on AIGFP s super senior credit default
    swap portfolio and (ii) other-than-temporary impairment
    charges of $3.3 billion in the fourth quarter of 2007.  

AIG 2007
Form  10-K          
197 

Table of Contents   

American International Group, Inc. and Subsidiaries

Notes to Consolidated Financial
Statements    Continued  

23. Information Provided in
Connection With Outstanding Debt  

The following condensed consolidating
financial statements reflect the following:  

AIGLH, formerly known as American General Corporation, is a
    holding company and a wholly owned subsidiary of AIG. AIG
    provides a full and unconditional guarantee of all outstanding
    debt of AIGLH. 

AIG Liquidity Corp. is a wholly owned subsidiary of AIG. AIG
    provides a full and unconditional guarantee of all obligations
    of AIG Liquidity Corp. 

AIG Program Funding, Inc. is a wholly owned subsidiary of AIG.
    AIG provides a full and unconditional guarantee of all
    obligations of AIG Program Funding, Inc., which was established
    in 2007. 

Condensed Consolidating Balance Sheet 

* Less than $1 million. 

198         AIG
2007 Form  10-K 

Table of Contents   

American International Group, Inc. and Subsidiaries

23. Information Provided in
Connection With Outstanding Debt  

Continued 

Condensed Consolidating Statement of Income 

* Less than $1 million. 

AIG 2007
Form  10-K          
199 

Table of Contents   

American International Group, Inc. and Subsidiaries

Notes to Consolidated Financial
Statements    Continued  

23. Information Provided in
Connection With Outstanding Debt  

Continued 

Condensed Consolidating Statements of Cash Flow 

* Less than $1 million. 

200         AIG
2007 Form  10-K 

Table of Contents   

American International Group, Inc. and Subsidiaries

24. Cash Flows  

As part of its ongoing remediation
activities, AIG has made certain revisions to the Consolidated
Statement of Cash Flows, primarily relating to the effect of
reclassifying certain policyholders  account balances, the
elimination of certain intercompany balances and revisions
related to separate account assets. Accordingly, AIG revised the
previous periods presented to conform to the revised
presentation.  

The revisions and their effect in the
consolidated statement of cash flows for the years ended 2006
and 2005 are presented below:  

There was no effect on ending cash balances. 

AIG 2007
Form  10-K          
201 

Table of Contents   

American International Group, Inc. and Subsidiaries

Part II   Other Information 

Item 9.   
 Changes in and Disagreements With Accountants on Accounting and
Financial Disclosure 

None.

Item 9A.   
 Controls and Procedures 

Evaluation of Disclosure Controls and
Procedures

In connection with the preparation of this Annual Report on
Form  10-K,  an
evaluation was carried out by AIG s management, with the
participation of AIG s Chief Executive Officer and Chief
Financial Officer, of the effectiveness of AIG s disclosure
controls and procedures (as defined in
Rules  13a-15(e) 
and  15d-15(e)  under the
Securities Exchange Act of 1934 (Exchange Act)) as of
December 31, 2007. Disclosure controls and procedures are
designed to ensure that information required to be disclosed in
reports filed or submitted under the Exchange Act is recorded,
processed, summarized and reported within the time periods
specified in SEC rules and forms and that such information is
accumulated and communicated to management, including the Chief
Executive Officer and Chief Financial Officer, to allow timely
decisions regarding required disclosures.

During the evaluation of disclosure controls and procedures as
of December 31, 2007 conducted during the preparation of
AIG s financial statements to be included in this Annual
Report on
Form  10-K,  a
material weakness in internal control over financial reporting
relating to the fair value valuation of the AIGFP super senior
credit default swap portfolio was identified. As a result of
this material weakness, described more fully below, AIG s
Chief Executive Officer and Chief Financial Officer concluded
that, as of December 31, 2007, AIG s disclosure
controls and procedures were ineffective.

As of December 31, 2007 and as described under Remediation
of Prior Material Weaknesses in Internal Control Over Financial
Reporting below, the material weakness relating to the controls
over income tax accounting no longer existed.

Notwithstanding the existence of this material weakness in
internal control over financial reporting relating to the fair
value valuation of the AIGFP super senior credit default swap
portfolio, AIG believes that the consolidated financial
statements in this Annual Report on
Form  10-K  fairly
present, in all material respects, AIG s consolidated
financial condition as of December 31, 2007 and 2006, and
consolidated results of its operations and cash flows for the
years ended December 31, 2007, 2006 and 2005, in conformity
with U.S. generally accepted accounting principles (GAAP).

Management s Report on Internal Control Over Financial
Reporting 

Management of AIG is responsible for establishing and
maintaining adequate internal control over financial reporting.
AIG s internal control over financial reporting is a
process, under the supervision of AIG s Chief Executive
Officer and Chief Financial Officer, designed to provide
reasonable assurance regarding the reliability of financial
reporting and the preparation of AIG s financial statements
for external purposes in accordance with GAAP.

Because of its inherent limitations, internal control over
financial reporting may not prevent or detect misstatements.
Also, projections of any evaluation of effectiveness to future
periods are subject to the risk that controls may become
inadequate because of changes in conditions, or that the degree
of compliance with the policies or procedures may deteriorate.

AIG management conducted an assessment of the effectiveness of
AIG s internal control over financial reporting as of
December 31, 2007 based on the criteria established in
 Internal Control   Integrated Framework  issued
by the Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of the Treadway
Commission (COSO).

A material weakness is a deficiency, or a combination of
deficiencies, in internal control over financial reporting, such
that there is a reasonable possibility that a material
misstatement of AIG s annual or interim financial
statements will not be prevented or detected on a timely basis.
AIG management has concluded that, as of December 31, 2007,
the following material weakness existed relating to the fair
value valuation of the AIGFP super senior credit default swap
portfolio.

As of December 31, 2007, controls over the AIGFP super
senior credit default swap portfolio valuation process and
oversight thereof were not effective. AIG had insufficient
resources to design and carry out effective controls to prevent
or detect errors and to determine appropriate disclosures on a
timely basis with respect to the processes and models introduced
in the fourth quarter of 2007. As a result, AIG had not fully
developed its controls to assess, on a timely basis, the
relevance to its valuation of all third party information. Also,
controls to permit the appropriate oversight and monitoring of
the AIGFP super senior credit default swap portfolio valuation
process, including timely sharing of information at the
appropriate levels of the organization, did not operate
effectively. As a result, controls over the AIGFP super senior
credit default swap portfolio valuation process and oversight
thereof were not adequate to prevent or detect misstatements in
the accuracy of management s fair value estimates and
disclosures on a timely basis, resulting in adjustments for
purposes of AIG s December 31, 2007 consolidated
financial statements. In addition, this deficiency could result
in a misstatement in management s fair value estimates or
disclosures that could be material to AIG s annual or
interim consolidated financial statements that would not be
prevented or detected on a timely basis.

Solely as a result of the material weakness in internal control
over the fair value valuation of the AIGFP super senior credit
default swap portfolio described above, AIG management has
concluded that, as of December 31, 2007, AIG s
internal control over financial reporting was not effective
based on the criteria in  Internal Control  
Integrated Framework  issued by the COSO.

The effectiveness of AIG s internal control over financial
reporting as of December 31, 2007 has been audited by
PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP, an independent registered public

202         AIG
2007 Form  10-K 

Table of Contents   

American International Group, Inc. and Subsidiaries

accounting firm, as stated in their report, which is included in
this Annual Report on
Form  10-K. 

Remediation of Prior Material Weakness in Internal Control
Over Financial Reporting 

AIG has been actively engaged in the implementation of
remediation efforts to address the material weakness in controls
over income tax accounting that was in existence at
December 31, 2006. These remediation efforts, outlined
below, are specifically designed to address the material
weakness identified by AIG management. As a result of its
assessment of the effectiveness of internal control over
financial reporting, AIG management determined that as of
December 31, 2007, the material weakness relating to the
controls over income tax accounting no longer existed.

AIG s remediation efforts were governed by a Steering
Committee, under the direction of AIG s Chief Risk Officer
and included AIG s Chief Executive Officer, Chief Financial
Officer and Comptroller. The status of remediation was reviewed
with the Audit Committee who was advised of issues encountered
and key decisions reached by AIG management.

As of December 31, 2006, AIG did not maintain effective
controls over the determination and reporting of certain
components of the provision for income taxes and related income
tax balances. Specifically, AIG did not maintain effective
controls to review and monitor the accuracy of the components of
the income tax provision calculations and related income tax
balances and to monitor the differences between the income tax
basis and the financial reporting basis of assets and
liabilities to effectively reconcile the differences to the
deferred income tax balances.

During 2007, AIG management took the following actions to
remediate this material weakness:

Implemented standard key controls to review and monitor the
    income tax provision and related income tax balances at
    applicable AIG business units globally and parent company, and
    conducted testing of these controls to verify their
    effectiveness, 

Completed the evaluation and reconciliation of certain
    historical balance sheet income tax accounts at applicable AIG
    business units globally and parent company, as well as a more
    detailed financial statement exposure analysis of income tax
    balances, 

Hired additional qualified staff, including Tax Directors and
    Tax Accountants, at designated business units globally and
    parent company, and 

Continued the development and dissemination of income tax
    accounting training and education programs at parent company and
    business unit levels through site visits and training
    conferences. 

AIG continues to develop further enhancements to its controls
over income tax accounting at certain business units. Based upon
the significant actions taken and the testing and evaluation of
the effectiveness of the controls, AIG management has concluded
the material weakness in AIG s controls over income tax
accounting no longer existed as of December 31, 2007.

Continuing Remediation 

AIG is actively engaged in the development and implementation of
a remediation plan to address the material weakness in controls
over the fair value valuation of the AIGFP super senior credit
default swap portfolio and oversight thereof as of
December 31, 2007. The components of this remediation plan,
once implemented, are intended to ensure that the key controls
over the valuation process are operating effectively and are
sustainable. These components include assigning dedicated and
experienced resources at AIGFP with the responsibility for
valuation, enhancing the technical resources at AIG over the
valuation of the super senior credit default swap portfolio and
strengthening corporate oversight over the valuation
methodologies and processes. AIG management continues to assign
the highest priority to AIG s remediation efforts in this
area, with the goal of remediating this material weakness by
year-end 2008.

AIG S remediation efforts will be governed by a Steering
Committee under the direction of AIG s Chief Risk Officer
and also including AIG s Chief Executive Officer, Chief
Financial Officer and Comptroller. The status of remediation of
the material weakness will be reviewed with the Audit Committee
and this Committee will be advised of issues encountered and key
decisions reached by AIG management relating to the remediation
efforts.

Notwithstanding the existence of this material weakness in
internal control over financial reporting relating to the fair
value valuation of the AIGFP super senior credit default swap
portfolio, due to the substantive alternative procedures
performed and compensating controls introduced after
December 31, 2007, AIG believes that the consolidated
financial statements fairly present, in all material respects,
AIG s consolidated financial condition as of
December 31, 2007 and 2006, and consolidated results of its
operations and cash flows for the years ended December 31,
2007, 2006 and 2005, in conformity with GAAP.

AIG recognizes that continued improvement in its internal
controls over financial reporting and consolidation processes,
investment accounting, reinsurance accounting and income tax
accounting, is necessary. Over time, AIG intends to reduce its
reliance on certain manual controls that have been established.
AIG is currently developing new systems and processes which will
allow it to rely on front-end preventive and detective controls
which will be more sustainable over the long term. To accomplish
its goals, AIG recognizes its need to continue strengthening and
investing in financial personnel, systems and processes. AIG is
committed to continuing the significant investments over the
next several years necessary to make these improvements.

Changes in Internal Control over Financial Reporting 

Changes in AIG s internal control over financial reporting
during the quarter ended December 31, 2007 that have
materially affected, or are reasonably likely to materially
affect, AIG s internal control over financial reporting
have been described above.

AIG 2007
Form  10-K          
203 

Table of Contents   

American International Group, Inc. and Subsidiaries

Part II   Other
Information    Continued  

Item 9B.   
 Other Information 

None.

204         AIG
2007 Form  10-K 

Table of Contents   

American International Group, Inc. and Subsidiaries

Part III 

Item 10.   
 Directors, Executive Officers and Corporate Governance 

Except for the information provided in Part I under the
heading  Directors and Executive Officers of AIG ,
this item, including information regarding AIG s audit
committee and audit committee financial expert, any material
changes to the procedures by which security holders may
recommend nominees to AIG s board of directors, if any, and
information relating to AIG s code of ethics that applies
to its directors, executive officers and senior financial
officers, is omitted because a definitive proxy statement which
involves the election of directors will be filed with the SEC
not later than 120 days after the close of the fiscal year
pursuant to Regulation 14A.

Item 11.   
 Executive Compensation 

This item is omitted because a definitive proxy statement which
involves the election of directors will be filed with the SEC
not later than 120 days after the close of the fiscal year
pursuant to Regulation 14A.

Item 12.   
 Security Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owners and Management
and Related Stockholder Matters 

This item is omitted because a definitive proxy statement which
involves the election of directors will be filed with the SEC
not later than 120 days after the close of the fiscal year
pursuant to Regulation 14A.

Item 13.   
 Certain Relationships and Related Transactions, and Director
Independence 

This item is omitted because a definitive proxy statement which
involves the election of directors will be filed with the SEC
not later than 120 days after the close of the fiscal year
pursuant to Regulation 14A.

Item 14.   
 Principal Accountant Fees and Services 

This item is omitted because a definitive proxy statement which
involves the election of directors will be filed with the SEC
not later than 120 days after the close of the fiscal year
pursuant to Regulation 14A.

Part IV 

Item 15.   
 Exhibits and Financial Statement Schedules 

(a) Financial Statements and Schedules. See accompanying
Index to Financial Statements.

(b) Exhibits. See accompanying Exhibit Index.

AIG 2007
Form  10-K          
205 

Table of Contents   

American International Group, Inc. and Subsidiaries

SIGNATURES

Pursuant to the requirements of Section 13 or 15(d) of the
Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, the Registrant has
duly caused this Annual Report on
Form  10-K  to be
signed on its behalf by the undersigned, thereunto duly
authorized, in the City of New York and State of New York, on
the 28th of February, 2008.

AMERICAN INTERNATIONAL GROUP, INC.  

By  
     
     /s/
      Martin
    J. Sullivan

(Martin J. Sullivan, President and Chief Executive Officer) 

KNOW ALL PERSONS BY THESE PRESENTS, that each person whose
signature appears below constitutes and appoints Martin J.
Sullivan and Steven J. Bensinger, and each of them severally,
his or her true and lawful
 attorney-in -fact, with
full power of substitution and resubstitution, to sign in his or
her name, place and stead, in any and all capacities, to do any
and all things and execute any and all instruments that such
attorney may deem necessary or advisable under the Securities
Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, and any rules, regulations and
requirements of the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission
in connection with this Annual Report on
Form  10-K  and any
and all amendments hereto, as fully for all intents and purposes
as he or she might or could do in person, and hereby ratifies
and confirms all said
 attorneys-in -fact and
agents, each acting alone, and his or her substitute or
substitutes, may lawfully do or cause to be done by virtue
hereof.

Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of
1934, as amended, this Annual Report on
Form  10-K  has been
signed below by the following persons in the capacities
indicated on the 28th of February, 2008.

Signature  
       
      Title  

/s/  Martin J. Sullivan 

(Martin J. Sullivan) 

President, Chief Executive Officer and Director 
    (Principal Executive Officer)

/s/  Steven J. Bensinger 
      
 (Steven
    J. Bensinger) 

Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer 
    (Principal Financial Officer)

/s/  David L. Herzog 
      
 (David
    L. Herzog) 

Senior Vice President and Comptroller 
    (Principal Accounting Officer)

/s/  Stephen F.
    Bollenbach 
      
 (Stephen
    F. Bollenbach) 

Director

/s/  Marshall A. Cohen 
      
 (Marshall
    A. Cohen) 

Director

/s/  Martin S. Feldstein 
      
 (Martin
    S. Feldstein) 

Director

/s/  Ellen V. Futter 
      
 (Ellen
    V. Futter) 

Director

/s/  Stephen L.
    Hammerman 
      
 (Stephen
    L. Hammerman) 

Director

/s/  Richard C.
    Holbrooke 
      
 (Richard
    C. Holbrooke) 

Director

206         AIG
2007 Form  10-K 

Table of Contents   

American International Group, Inc. and Subsidiaries

Signature  
       
      Title  

/s/  Fred H. Langhammer 
      
 (Fred
    H. Langhammer) 

Director

/s/  George L. Miles,
    Jr. 
      
 (George
    L. Miles, Jr.) 

Director

/s/  Morris W. Offit 
      
 (Morris
    W. Offit) 

Director

/s/  James F. Orr III 
      
 (James
    F. Orr III) 

Director

/s/  Virginia M. Rometty 
      
 (Virginia
    M. Rometty) 

Director

/s/  Michael H. Sutton 
      
 (Michael
    H. Sutton) 

Director

/s/  Edmund S.W. Tse 
      
 (Edmund
    S.W. Tse) 

Director

/s/  Robert B.
    Willumstad 
      
 (Robert
    B. Willumstad) 

Director

/s/  Frank G. Zarb 
      
 (Frank
    G. Zarb) 

Director

AIG 2007
Form  10-K          
207 

Table of Contents   

American International Group, Inc. and Subsidiaries

EXHIBIT INDEX

Exhibit  

Number  
       
      Description  
       
      Location  

2

Plan of acquisition, reorganization, arrangement, liquidation or
    succession 

Agreement and Plan of Merger, dated as of
    May 11, 2001, among American International Group, Inc.,
    Washington Acquisition Corporation and American General
    Corporation 

Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 2.1(i)(a) to
    AIG s Registration Statement on Form S-4 (File
    No. 333-62688).

3(i)(a)

Restated Certificate of Incorporation of AIG 

Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 3(i) to AIG s
    Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended
    December 31, 1996 (File No. 1-8787).

3(i)(b)

Certificate of Amendment of Certificate of Incorporation of AIG,
    filed June 3, 1998 

Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 3(i) to AIG s
    Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the quarter ended
    June 30, 1998 (File No. 1-8787).

3(i)(c)

Certificate of Merger of SunAmerica Inc. with and into AIG,
    filed December 30, 1998 and effective January 1, 1999 

Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 3(i) to AIG s
    Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended
    December 31, 1998 (File No. 1-8787).

3(i)(d)

Certificate of Amendment of Certificate of Incorporation of AIG,
    filed June 5, 2000 

Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 3(i)(c) to AIG s
    Registration Statement on Form S-4 (File
    No. 333-45828).

3(ii)

Amended and Restated By-laws of AIG 

Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 3(i) to AIG s
    Current Report on Form 8-K filed with the SEC on
    January 17, 2008 (File No. 1-8787).

4

Instruments defining the rights of security holders, including
    indentures 

Certain instruments defining the rights of holders of long- term
    debt securities of AIG and its subsidiaries are omitted pursuant
    to Item 601(b)(4)(iii) of Regulation S-K. AIG hereby
    undertakes to furnish to the Commission, upon request, copies of
    any such instruments.

9

Voting Trust Agreement 

None.

10

Material contracts* 

(1) 

AIG 1969 Employee Stock Option Plan and Agreement Form 

Filed as exhibit to AIG s Registration Statement
    (File No. 2-44043) and incorporated herein by
    reference.

(2) 

AIG 1972 Employee Stock Option Plan 

Filed as exhibit to AIG s Registration Statement
    (File No. 2-44702) and incorporated herein by
    reference.

(3) 

AIG 1972 Employee Stock Purchase Plan 

Filed as exhibit to AIG s Registration Statement
    (File No. 2-44043) and incorporated herein by
    reference.

(4) 

AIG 1984 Employee Stock Purchase Plan 

Filed as exhibit to AIG s Registration Statement
    (File No. 2-91945) and incorporated herein by
    reference.

(5) 

AIG Amended and Restated 1996 Employee Stock Purchase Plan 

Filed as exhibit to AIG s Definitive Proxy Statement dated
    April 4, 2003 (File No. 1-8787) and incorporated
    herein by reference.

(6) 

AIG 2003 Japan Employee Stock Purchase Plan 

Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 4 to AIG s
    Registration Statement on Form S-8
    (File No. 333-111737).

(7) 

AIG 1977 Stock Option and Stock Appreciation Rights Plan 

Filed as exhibit to AIG s Registration Statement
    (File No. 2-59317) and incorporated herein by
    reference.

(8) 

AIG 1982 Employee Stock Option Plan 

Filed as exhibit to AIG s Registration Statement
    (File No. 2-78291) and incorporated herein by
    reference.

(9) 

AIG 1987 Employee Stock Option Plan 

Filed as exhibit to AIG s Definitive Proxy Statement dated
    April 6, 1987 (File No. 0-4652) and incorporated
    herein by reference.

(10) 

AIG 1991 Employee Stock Option Plan 

Filed as exhibit to AIG s Definitive Proxy Statement dated
    April 4, 1997 (File No. 1-8787) and incorporated
    herein by reference.

*   
     
     All material contracts are management contracts or
    compensatory plans or arrangements, except items (66),
    (67), (68) and (69).  

208         AIG
2007 Form  10-K 

Table of Contents   

American International Group, Inc. and Subsidiaries

AIG 2007
Form  10-K          
209 

Table of Contents   

American International Group, Inc. and Subsidiaries

210         AIG
2007 Form  10-K 

Table of Contents   

American International Group, Inc. and Subsidiaries

AIG 2007
Form  10-K          
211 

Table of Contents   

American International Group, Inc. and Subsidiaries

212         AIG
2007 Form  10-K 

Table of Contents   

American International Group, Inc. and Subsidiaries

Exhibit  

Number  
       
      Description  
       
      Location  

12

Computation of Ratios of Earnings to Fixed Charges 

Filed herewith.

13

Annual report to security holders 

Not required to be filed.

18

Letter re change in accounting principles 

None.

21

Subsidiaries of Registrant 

Filed herewith.

23

Consent of PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP 

Filed herewith.

24

Power of attorney 

Included on the signature page hereof.

31

Rule 13a-14(a)/15d-14(a) Certifications 

Filed herewith.

32

Section 1350 Certifications 

Filed herewith.

99

Additional exhibits 

None.

AIG 2007
Form  10-K          
213 

Table of Contents   

AMERICAN INTERNATIONAL GROUP, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES

Summary of Investments   Other than Investments in
Related Parties 

Schedule I 

*   
     
     Original cost of equity securities and fixed maturities are
    reduced by other-than-temporary impairment charges, and, as to
    fixed maturities, reduced by repayments and adjusted for
    amortization of premiums or accrual of discounts.  

226         AIG
2007 Form  10-K 

Table of Contents   

AMERICAN INTERNATIONAL GROUP, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES

Condensed Financial Information of Registrant 

Balance Sheet   Parent Company Only 

Schedule II 

See Accompanying Notes to Financial Statements  
Parent Company Only. 

Statement of Income   Parent Company Only 

See Accompanying Notes to Financial Statements  
Parent Company Only. 

AIG 2007
Form  10-K          
227 

Table of Contents   

AMERICAN INTERNATIONAL GROUP, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES

Condensed Financial Information of
Registrant    Continued  

Statement of Cash Flows   Parent Company Only 

Schedule II 

NOTES TO FINANCIAL STATEMENTS   PARENT COMPANY
ONLY 

(1)   
     
     Agency operations conducted in New York through the North
    American Division of AIU are included in the financial
    statements of the parent company.  

(2)   
     
     Certain prior period amounts have been reclassified to
    conform to the current period presentation.  

(3)   
     
      Equity in undistributed net income of consolidated
    subsidiaries and partially owned companies  in the
    accompanying Statement of Income   Parent Company
    Only   includes equity in income of the minority-owned
    insurance operations.  

228         AIG
2007 Form  10-K 

Table of Contents   

American International Group, Inc. and Subsidiaries

Supplementary Insurance Information 

Schedule III 

At December 31, 2007, 2006 and 2005 and for the years
then ended 

(a)   
     
     Reserves for losses and loss expenses with respect to the
    General Insurance operations are net of discounts of
    $2.43 billion, $2.26 billion and $2.11 billion at
    December 31, 2007, 2006 and 2005, respectively.  

(b)   
     
     Reflected in insurance balances payable on the accompanying
    consolidated balance sheet.  

AIG 2007
Form  10-K          
229 

Table of Contents   

AMERICAN INTERNATIONAL GROUP, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES

Reinsurance 

Schedule IV 

At December 31, 2007, 2006 and 2005 and for the years
then ended 

230         AIG
2007 Form  10-K 

Table of Contents   

American International Group, and Subsidiaries

Valuation and Qualifying Accounts 

Schedule V 

For the years ended December 31, 2007, 2006 and 2005 

(a)   
     
    Includes recoveries of amounts previously charged off and
    reclassifications to/from other accounts. 

(b)   
     
    Amounts for Overhaul reserve represent reimbursements to lessees
    for overhauls performed and amounts transferred to buyers for
    aircraft sold and is included in Other liabilities in the
    consolidated balance sheet. 

AIG 2007
Form  10-K          
231 

<EX-12>
 2
 y44393exv12.htm
 EX-12: STATEMENT RE COMPUTATION OF RATIOS

EX-12 

American International Group,
Inc. and Subsidiaries

Computation of Ratios of Earnings to Fixed Charges 

Exhibit 12 

* The proportion deemed representative of the interest
factor. 

The secondary ratio is disclosed for the convenience of fixed
income investors and the rating agencies that serve them and is
more comparable to the ratios disclosed by all issuers of fixed
income securities. The secondary ratio removes interest credited
to guaranteed investment contract (GIC) policyholders and
guaranteed investment agreement (GIA) contractholders. Such
interest expenses are also removed from earnings used in this
calculation. GICs and GIAs are entered into by AIG s
insurance subsidiaries, principally SunAmerica Life Insurance
Company and AIG Financial Products Corp. and its subsidiaries,
respectively. The proceeds from GICs and GIAs are invested in a
diversified portfolio of securities, primarily investment grade
bonds. The assets acquired yield rates greater than the rates on
the related policyholders obligation or contract, with the
intent of earning a profit from the spread.

214         AIG
2007 Form  10-K 

</EX-12>

<EX-21>
 3
 y44393exv21.htm
 EX-21: SUBSIDIARIES

EX-21 

American International Group, Inc. and Subsidiaries

Subsidiaries of Registrant 

Exhibit 21 

Percentage   

of Voting   

Securities   

Jurisdiction of 
       
     held by   

Incorporation or 
       
     Immediate   

As of December 31, 2007 
       
     Organization 
       
     Parent  1     

American International Group,
    Inc.  (2)  

Delaware 

(3)   

AIG Capital Corporation

Delaware 

100 

AIG Capital India Private Limited

India 

99.99 
       (4)   

AIG Global Asset Management Company
    (India) Private Limited

India 

99 
       (5)   

AIG Consumer Finance Group, Inc. 

Delaware 

100 

AIG Bank Polska S.A.

Poland 

99.92 

AIG Credit SA 

Poland 

100 

Compania Financiera Argentina S.A. 

Argentina 

100 

AIG Credit Corp. 

Delaware 

100 

A.I. Credit Consumer Discount Company

Pennsylvania 

100 

A.I. Credit Corp. 

New Hampshire 

100 

AICCO, Inc. 

Delaware 

100 

AICCO, Inc. 

California 

100 

AIG Credit Corp. of Canada

Canada 

100 

Imperial Premium Funding, Inc. 

Delaware 

100 

AIG Equipment Finance Holdings, Inc. 

Delaware 

100 

AIG Commercial Equipment Finance,
    Inc. 

Delaware 

100 

AIG Commercial Equipment
    Finance Company, Canada

Canada 

100 

AIG Rail Services, Inc. 

Delaware 

100 

AIG Finance Holdings, Inc. 

New York 

100 

AIG Finance (Hong Kong) Limited

Hong Kong 

100 

American General Finance, Inc. 

Indiana 

100 

American General Auto Finance, Inc. 

Delaware 

100 

American General Finance Corporation

Indiana 

100 

Merit Life Insurance
    Co. 

Indiana 

100 

MorEquity, Inc. 

Nevada 

100 

Wilmington
    Finance, Inc. 

Delaware 

100 

Ocean Finance and Mortgages
    Limited

England 

100 

Yosemite Insurance Company

Indiana 

100 

CommoLoCo,
    Inc. 

Puerto Rico 

100 

American General Financial Services of Alabama,
    Inc. 

Delaware 

100 

AIG Global Asset Management Holdings Corp. 

Delaware 

100 

AIG Asset Management Services, Inc. 

Delaware 

100 

AIG Capital Partners, Inc. 

Delaware 

100 

AIG Equity Sales Corp. 

New York 

100 

AIG Global Investment Corp. 

New Jersey 

100 

AIG Global Real Estate Investment
    Corp. 

Delaware 

100 

AIG Securities Lending Corp. 

Delaware 

100 

Brazos Capital Management, L.P. 

Delaware 

100 

International Lease Finance Corporation

California 

67.23 
       (6)   

AIG Egypt Insurance Company S.A.E. 

Egypt 

90.05 
       (7)   

AIG Federal Savings Bank

USA 

100 

AIG Financial Advisor Services, Inc. 

Delaware 

100 

AIG Global Investment (Luxembourg) S.A. 

Luxembourg 

100 

AIG Financial Products Corp. 

Delaware 

100 

AIG Matched Funding Corp. 

Delaware 

100 

Banque AIG

France 

90 
       (8)   

AIG Funding, Inc. 

Delaware 

100 

AIG Global Trade & Political Risk Insurance Company

New Jersey 

100 

AIG Israel Insurance Company Ltd. 

Israel 

50.01 

AIG Kazakhstan Insurance Company 

Kazakhstan 

60 

AIG 2007
Form  10-K          
215 

American International Group, Inc. and Subsidiaries

Subsidiaries of
Registrant    Continued  

Percentage   

of Voting   

Securities   

Jurisdiction of 
       
     held by   

Incorporation or 
       
     Immediate   

As of December 31, 2007 
       
     Organization 
       
     Parent  1     

AIG Life Holdings (International) LLC

Delaware 

100 

AIG Star Life Insurance Co., Ltd. 

Japan 

100 

American International Reinsurance Company,
    Ltd. 

Bermuda 

100 

AIG Edison Life Insurance Company

Japan 

90 
       (9)   

American International Assurance
    Company, Limited

Hong Kong 

100 

American International Assurance Company
    (Australia) Limited

Australia 

100 

American International Assurance Company
    (Bermuda) Limited

Bermuda 

100 

American International
    Assurance Co. (Vietnam) Limited

Vietnam 

100 

Tata AIG Life Insurance
    Company Limited

India 

26 

Nan Shan Life Insurance Company,
    Ltd. 

Taiwan 

95.27 

AIG Life Holdings (US), Inc. 

Texas 

100 

AGC Life Insurance Company

Missouri 

100 

AIG Annuity Insurance Company

Texas 

100 

AIG Life Holdings (Canada), ULC

Canada 

100 

AIG Assurance Canada

Canada 

100 

AIG Life Insurance Company
    of Canada

Canada 

100 

AIG Life of Bermuda, Ltd. 

Bermuda 

100 

AIG Life Insurance Company

Delaware 

100 

American General Life and Accident
    Insurance Company

Tennessee 

100 

Volunteer Vermont Holdings,
    LLC

Vermont 

100 

Volunteer
    Vermont Reinsurance Company

Vermont 

100 

American General Life Insurance Company

Texas 

100 

AIG Enterprise Services, LLC

Delaware 

100 

American General Annuity
    Service Corporation

Texas 

100 

American General Life
    Companies, LLC

Delaware 

100 

The Variable Annuity Life
    Insurance Company

Texas 

100 

AIG Retirement
    Services Company

Texas 

100 

American International Life Assurance
    Company of New York

New York 

100 

American General Bancassurance Services,
    Inc. 

Illinois 

100 

American General Property Insurance
    Company

Tennessee 

51.85 
       (10)   

American General Property
    Insurance Company of Florida

Florida 

100 

The United States Life Insurance Company in the City
    of New York

New York 

100 

American General Assurance Company

Illinois 

100 

American General Indemnity Company

Illinois 

100 

American General Investment Management Corporation

Delaware 

100 

American General Realty Investment Corporation

Texas 

100 

Knickerbocker Corporation

Texas 

100 

AIG Life Insurance Company of Puerto Rico

Puerto Rico 

100 

AIG Life Insurance Company (Switzerland) Ltd. 

Switzerland 

100 

AIG Liquidity Corp. 

Delaware 

100 

AIG Privat Bank AG

Switzerland 

100 

AIG Property Casualty Group, Inc. 

Delaware 

100 

AIG Commercial Insurance Group, Inc. 

Delaware 

100 

AIG Aviation, Inc. 

Georgia 

100 

AIG Casualty Company

Pennsylvania 

100 

AIG Risk Management, Inc. 

New York 

100 

AIU Insurance Company

New York 

52 
       (11)   

AIG General Insurance
    Company China Limited

China 

100 

AIG General Insurance
    (Taiwan) Co., Ltd. 

Taiwan 

100 

216         AIG
2007 Form  10-K 

American International Group, Inc. and Subsidiaries

Subsidiaries of
Registrant    Continued  

Percentage   

of Voting   

Securities   

Jurisdiction of 
       
     held by   

Incorporation or 
       
     Immediate   

As of December 31, 2007 
       
     Organization 
       
     Parent  1     

American Home Assurance Company

New York 

100 

AIG General Insurance
    (Malaysia) Berhad

Malaysia 

100 

AIG Hawaii Insurance
    Company, Inc. 

Hawaii 

100 

American Pacific
    Insurance Company, Inc. 

Hawaii 

100 

American International
    Realty Corp. 

Delaware 

31.5 
       (12)   

Pine Street Real Estate
    Holdings Corp. 

New Hampshire 

31.47 
       (13)   

Transatlantic Holdings,
    Inc. 

Delaware 

33.24 
       (14)   

Transatlantic
    Reinsurance Company

New York 

100 

Putnam
    Reinsurance Company

New York 

100 

Trans Re Zurich

Switzerland 

100 

American International Surplus Lines
    Agency, Inc. 

New Jersey 

100 

Audubon Insurance Company

Louisiana 

100 

Agency Management Corporation

Louisiana 

100 

The Gulf Agency,
    Inc. 

Alabama 

100 

Audubon Indemnity Company

Mississippi 

100 

Commerce and Industry Insurance Company

New York 

100 

American International
    Insurance Company

New York 

50 
       (15)   

AIG Advantage
    Insurance Company

Minnesota 

100 

American
    International Insurance Company of California, Inc. 

California 

100 

American
    International Insurance Company of New Jersey

New Jersey 

100 

Commerce and Industry Insurance Company
    of Canada

Canada 

100 

The Insurance Company of the State of
    Pennsylvania

Pennsylvania 

100 

Landmark Insurance Company

California 

100 

National Union Fire Insurance Company of
    Pittsburgh, Pa

Pennsylvania 

100 

AIG Domestic Claims,
    Inc. 

Delaware 

100 

American International
    Specialty Lines Insurance Company

Illinois 

70 
       (16)   

Lexington Insurance Company

Delaware 

70 
       (17)   

AIG Centennial
    Insurance Company

Pennsylvania 

100 

AIG Auto
    Insurance Company of New Jersey

New Jersey 

100 

AIG Preferred
    Insurance Company

Pennsylvania 

100 

AIG Premier
    Insurance Company

Pennsylvania 

100 

AIG Indemnity
    Insurance Company

Pennsylvania 

100 

JI
    Accident & Fire Insurance Company, Ltd. 

Japan 

50 

National Union Fire
    Insurance Company of Louisiana

Louisiana 

100 

National Union Fire
    Insurance Company of Vermont

Vermont 

100 

21st Century Insurance Group

Delaware 

32 
       (18)   

21st Century
    Casualty Company

California 

100 

21st Century
    Insurance Company

California 

100 

21st Century
    Insurance Company of the Southwest

Texas 

100 

AIG Excess Liability
    Insurance Company Ltd. 

Delaware 

100 

AIG Excess
    Liability Insurance International Limited 

Ireland 

100 

New Hampshire Insurance Company

Pennsylvania 

100 

AI Network Corporation

Delaware 

100 

AIG Europe, S.A. 

France 

70.48 
       (19)   

American International
    Pacific Insurance Company

Colorado 

100 

American International South
    Insurance Company

Pennsylvania 

100 

Granite State Insurance
    Company

Pennsylvania 

100 

Illinois National Insurance
    Co. 

Illinois 

100 

New Hampshire Indemnity
    Company, Inc. 

Pennsylvania 

100 

AIG National
    Insurance Company, Inc. 

New York 

100 

New Hampshire Insurance
    Services, Inc. 

New Hampshire 

100 

Risk Specialists Companies, Inc. 

Delaware 

100 

HSB Group, Inc. 

Delaware 

100 

The Hartford Steam Boiler Inspection and
    Insurance Company

Connecticut 

100 

AIG 2007
Form  10-K          
217 

American International Group, Inc. and Subsidiaries

Subsidiaries of
Registrant    Continued  

Percentage   

of Voting   

Securities   

Jurisdiction of 
       
     held by   

Incorporation or 
       
     Immediate   

As of December 31, 2007 
       
     Organization 
       
     Parent  1     

The Hartford Steam Boiler Inspection and
    Insurance Company of Connecticut

Connecticut 

100 

HSB Engineering Insurance Limited

England 

100 

The Boiler Inspection and
    Insurance Company of Canada

Canada 

100 

United Guaranty Corporation

North Carolina 

36.31 
       (20)   

A.I.G. Mortgage Holdings Israel,
    Ltd. 

Israel 

87.32 

E.M.I. - Ezer Mortgage
    Insurance Company, Ltd.

Israel 

100 

AIG United Guaranty Agenzia Di
    Assirazione S.R.L

Italy 

100 

AIG United Guaranty Insurance (Asia)
    Limited

Hong Kong 

100 

AIG United Guaranty Mexico, S.A. 

Mexico 

100 

AIG United Guaranty Mortgage Insurance
    Company Canada

Canada 

100 

AIG United Guaranty Re, Ltd. 

Ireland 

100 

United Guaranty Insurance Company

North Carolina 

100 

United Guaranty Mortgage Insurance
    Company

North Carolina 

100 

United Guaranty Mortgage Insurance
    Company of North Carolina

North Carolina 

100 

United Guaranty Partners Insurance
    Company

Vermont 

100 

United Guaranty Residential Insurance
    Company

North Carolina 

75.03 
       (21)   

United Guaranty Credit
    Insurance Company

North Carolina 

100 

United Guaranty Commercial
    Insurance Company of North Carolina

North Carolina 

100 

United Guaranty Mortgage
    Indemnity Company

North Carolina 

100 

United Guaranty Residential Insurance
    Company of North Carolina

North Carolina 

100 

United Guaranty Services, Inc. 

North Carolina 

100 

AIG Marketing, Inc. 

Delaware 

100 

American International Insurance Company
    of Delaware

Delaware 

100 

Hawaii Insurance Consultants, Ltd. 

Hawaii 

100 

AIG Retirement Services, Inc. 

Delaware 

100 

SunAmerica Life Insurance Company

Arizona 

100 

SunAmerica Investments, Inc. 

Georgia 

70 
       (22)   

AIG Advisor Group, Inc. 

Maryland 

100 

AIG Financial
    Advisors, Inc. 

Delaware 

100 

Advantage
    Capital Corporation

New York 

100 

American General
    Securities Incorporated

Texas 

100 

FSC Securities
    Corporation

Delaware 

100 

Royal Alliance
    Associates, Inc. 

Delaware 

100 

AIG SunAmerica Life Assurance Company

Arizona 

100 

AIG SunAmerica Asset
    Management Corp. 

Delaware 

100 

AIG SunAmerica
    Capital Services, Inc. 

Delaware 

100 

First SunAmerica Life Insurance Company

New York 

100 

AIG Global Services, Inc. 

New Hampshire 

100 

AIG Trading Group Inc. 

Delaware 

100 

AIG International Inc. 

Delaware 

100 

AIU Holdings LLC

Delaware 

100 

AIG Central Europe & CIS
    Insurance Holdings Corporation

Delaware 

100 

AIG Bulgaria Insurance and Reinsurance
    Company EAD

Bulgaria 

100 

AIG Czech Republic pojistovna, a.s.

Czech Republic 

100 

AIG Memsa Holdings, Inc. 

Delaware 

100 

AIG Hayleys Investment Holdings
    (Private) Ltd. 

Sri Lanka 

80 

Hayleys AIG Insurance
    Company Limited

Sri Lanka 

100 

AIG Iraq, Inc. 

Delaware 

100 

AIG Lebanon S.A.L. 

Lebanon 

100 

AIG Libya, Inc. 

Delaware 

100 

AIG Sigorta A.S. 

Turkey 

100 

Tata AIG General Insurance Company
    Limited

India 

26 

218         AIG
2007 Form  10-K 

American International Group, Inc. and Subsidiaries

Subsidiaries of
Registrant    Continued  

Percentage   

of Voting   

Securities   

Jurisdiction of 
       
     held by   

Incorporation or 
       
     Immediate   

As of December 31, 2007 
       
     Organization 
       
     Parent  1     

AIU Africa Holdings, Inc. 

Delaware 

100 

AIG Kenya Insurance Company Limited

Kenya 

66.67 

AIU North America, Inc. 

New York 

100 

American International Underwriters
    Corporation

New York 

100 

American International Underwriters Overseas, Ltd. 

Bermuda 

100 

A.I.G. Colombia Seguros Generales S.A. 

Colombia 

94 
       (23)   

AIG Brasil Companhia de Seguros S.A.

Brazil 

50 

AIG Europe (Ireland) Limited

Ireland 

100 

AIG General Insurance (Thailand) Ltd.

Thailand 

100 

AIG General Insurance (Vietnam) Company Limited

Vietnam 

100 

AIG MEMSA Insurance Company Limited 

United Arab Emirates 

100 

AIG UK Holdings Limited 

England 

82.8 
       (24)   

AIG Germany Holding GmbH

Germany 

100 

Wurttembergische und
    Badische Versicherungs-AG

Germany 

100 

DARAG Deutsche
    Versicherungs-und Ruckversicherungs-Aktiengesellschaft

Germany 

100 

AIG UK Financing Limited

England 

100 

AIG UK Sub Holdings Limited

England 

100 

AIG UK Limited

England 

100 

AIG UK Services
    Limited

England 

100 

AIG Takaful - Enaya B.S.C. 

Bahrain 

100 

American International Insurance Company of Puerto
    Rico

Puerto Rico 

100 

Arabian American Insurance Company (Bahrain)
    E.C. 

Bahrain 

100 

La Meridional Compania Argentina de Seguros
    S.A. 

Argentina 

100 

La Seguridad de Centroamerica Compania de Seguros
    S.A. 

Guatemala 

100 

Richmond Insurance Company Limited

Bermuda 

100 

Underwriters Adjustment Company, Inc. 

Panama 

100 

American Life Insurance Company

Delaware 

100 

AIG Life Bulgaria Zhivotozastrahovatelna Druzhestvo
    .A.D. 

Bulgaria 

100 

ALICO, S.A. 

France 

100 

First American Polish Life Insurance and Reinsurance
    Company, S.A. 

Poland 

100 

Inversiones Interamericana S.A. 

Chile 

99.99 

Pharaonic American Life Insurance Company

Egypt 

74.87 
       (25)   

Unibanco AIG Seguros S.A. 

Brazil 

46.06 
       (26)   

American Security Life Insurance Company, Ltd. 

Lichtenstein 

100 

Delaware American Life Insurance Company

Delaware 

100 

Mt. Mansfield Company, Inc. 

Vermont 

100 

The Philippine American Life and General Insurance Company

Philippines 

99.78 

Pacific Union Assurance Company

California 

100 

Philam Equitable Life Assurance Company, Inc. 

Philippines 

95 

Philam Insurance Company, Inc. 

Philippines 

100 

(1)   
     
    Percentages include directors  qualifying shares. 

(2)   
     
    All subsidiaries listed are consolidated in the accompanying
    financial statements. Certain subsidiaries have been omitted
    from the tabulation. The omitted subsidiaries, when considered
    in the aggregate as a single subsidiary, do not constitute a
    significant subsidiary. 

(3)   
     
    The common stock is owned approximately 14.1 percent by
    C.V. Starr & Co., Inc., Edward E. Matthews, Maurice R.
    and Corinne P. Greenberg Joint Tenancy Company, LLC, Starr
    International Company, Inc., The Maurice R. Greenberg and
    Corinne P. Greenberg Family Foundation, Inc. and the Universal
    Foundation, Inc. 

(4)   
     
    Also owned 0.01 percent by AIG Global Investment Corp. 

(5)   
     
    Also owned 1 percent by AIG Capital Corporation. 

(6)   
     
    Also owned 32.77 percent by National Union Fire Insurance
    Company of Pittsburgh, Pa. 

(7)   
     
    Also owned 4.69 percent by AIG Memsa Holdings, Inc. 

(8)   
     
    Also owned 10 percent by AIG Matched Funding Corp. 

(9)   
     
    Also owned 10 percent by a subsidiary of American Life
    Insurance Company. 

(10)   
     
    Also owned 48.15 percent by American General Life and
    Accident Insurance Company. 

AIG 2007
Form  10-K          
219 

American International Group, Inc. and Subsidiaries

Subsidiaries of
Registrant    Continued  

(11)   
     
    Also owned 8 percent by The Insurance Company of the State
    of Pennsylvania, 32 percent by National Union Fire
    Insurance Company of the Pittsburgh, Pa., and 8 percent by
    AIG Casualty Company. 

(12)   
     
    Also owned by 11 other AIG subsidiaries. 

(13)   
     
    Also owned by 11 other AIG subsidiaries. 

(14)   
     
    Also owned 25.78 percent by AIG. 

(15)   
     
    Also owned 25 percent by American Home Assurance Company
    and 25 percent by AIU Insurance Company. 

(16)   
     
    Also owned 20 percent by the Insurance Company of the State
    of Pennsylvania and 10 percent by AIG Casualty Company. 

(17)   
     
    Also owned 20 percent by the Insurance Company of the State
    of Pennsylvania and 10 percent by AIG Casualty Company. 

(18)   
     
    Also owned 16.3 percent by American Home Assurance Company,
    31.1 percent by Commerce and Industry Insurance Company and
    20.6 percent by New Hampshire Insurance Company. 

(19)   
     
    100 percent held together with AIG companies. 

(20)   
     
    Also owned 45.88 percent by National Union Fire Insurance
    Company of Pittsburgh, Pa., 16.95 percent by New Hampshire
    Insurance Company and 0.86 percent by The Insurance Company
    of the State of Pennsylvania. 

(21)   
     
    Also owned 24.97 percent by United Guaranty Residential
    Insurance Company of North Carolina. 

(22)   
     
    Also owned 30 percent by AIG Retirement Services, Inc. 

(23)   
     
    Also owned 3.24 percent by American International
    Underwriters de Colombia Ltd. 

(24)   
     
    Also owned 5.6 percent by American International Company,
    Limited, 2.5 percent by AIG Europe (Ireland) Ltd.,
    8.5 percent by American International Underwriters Overseas
    Association and 0.6 percent by New Hampshire Insurance
    Company. 

(25)   
     
    Also owned 7.5 percent by AIG Egypt Insurance Company. 

(26)   
     
    Also owned 0.92 percent by American International
    Underwriters Overseas, Ltd. 

220         AIG
2007 Form  10-K 

</EX-21>

<EX-23>
 4
 y44393exv23.htm
 EX-23: CONSENT OF PRICEWATERHOUSECOOPERS LLP

EX-23 

American International Group, Inc. and Subsidiaries

Consent of Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm 

Exhibit 23 

We hereby consent to the incorporation by reference in the
Registration Statements on
Form  S-8  and
Form  S-3 
(No.  2-45346, 
No.  2-75875, 
No.  2-78291, 
No.  2-91945, 
No.  33-18073, 
No.  33-57250, 
No.  333-48639, 
No.  333-58095, 
No.  333-70069, 
No.  333-83813, 
No.  333-31346, 
No.  333-39976, 
No.  333-45828, 
No.  333-50198, 
No.  333-52938, 
No.  333-68640, 
No.  333-74187, 
No.  333-101640, 
No.  333-101967, 
No.  333-108466, 
No.  333-111737, 
No.  333-115911, 
No.  333-106040, 
No.  333-132561, 
No. 333-143992 and No. 333-148148) of American
International Group, Inc. of our report dated February 28,
2008, relating to the financial statements, financial statement
schedules, and the effectiveness of internal control over
financial reporting, which appears in this Annual Report on
Form  10-K. 

PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP

New York, New York

February 28, 2008

AIG 2007
Form  10-K          
221 

</EX-23>

<EX-31>
 5
 y44393exv31.htm
 EX-31: CERTIFICATIONS

EX-31 

American International Group, Inc. and Subsidiaries

Exhibit 31 

CERTIFICATIONS

I, Martin J. Sullivan, certify that:

1. I have reviewed this Annual Report on
Form  10-K  of
American International Group, Inc.;

2. Based on my knowledge, this report does not contain any
untrue statement of a material fact or omit to state a material
fact necessary to make the statements made, in light of the
circumstances under which such statements were made, not
misleading with respect to the period covered by this report;

3. Based on my knowledge, the financial statements, and
other financial information included in this report, fairly
present in all material respects the financial condition,
results of operations and cash flows of the registrant as of,
and for, the periods presented in this report;

4. The registrant s other certifying officer and I are
responsible for establishing and maintaining disclosure controls
and procedures (as defined in Exchange Act
Rules  13a-15(e) 
and  15d-15(e))  and
internal control over financial reporting (as defined in
Exchange Act
Rules  13a-15(f) 
and  15d-15(f))  for the
registrant and have:

(a) Designed such disclosure controls and procedures, or
    caused such disclosure controls and procedures to be designed
    under our supervision, to ensure that material information
    relating to the registrant, including its consolidated
    subsidiaries, is made known to us by others within those
    entities, particularly during the period in which this report is
    being prepared; 

(b) Designed such internal control over financial
    reporting, or caused such internal control over financial
    reporting to be designed under our supervision, to provide
    reasonable assurance regarding the reliability of financial
    reporting and the preparation of financial statements for
    external purposes in accordance with generally accepted
    accounting principles; 

(c) Evaluated the effectiveness of the registrant s
    disclosure controls and procedures and presented in this report
    our conclusions about the effectiveness of the disclosure
    controls and procedures, as of the end of the period covered by
    this report based on such evaluation; and 

(d) Disclosed in this report any change in the
    registrant s internal control over financial reporting that
    occurred during the registrant s most recent fiscal quarter
    (the registrant s fourth fiscal quarter in the case of an
    annual report) that has materially affected, or is reasonably
    likely to materially affect, the registrant s internal
    control over financial reporting; and 

5. The registrant s other certifying officer and I
have disclosed, based on our most recent evaluation of internal
control over financial reporting, to the registrant s
auditors and the audit committee of the registrant s board
of directors (or persons performing the equivalent functions):

(a) All significant deficiencies and material weaknesses in
    the design or operation of internal control over financial
    reporting which are reasonably likely to adversely affect the
    registrant s ability to record, process, summarize and
    report financial information; and 

(b) Any fraud, whether or not material, that involves
    management or other employees who have a significant role in the
    registrant s internal control over financial reporting. 

Date: February 28, 2008

/s/  Martin J. Sullivan

Martin J. Sullivan 

President and Chief Executive Officer 

222         AIG
2007 Form  10-K 

American International Group, Inc. and Subsidiaries

CERTIFICATIONS

I, Steven J. Bensinger, certify that:

1. I have reviewed this Annual Report on
Form  10-K  of
American International Group, Inc.;

2. Based on my knowledge, this report does not contain any
untrue statement of a material fact or omit to state a material
fact necessary to make the statements made, in light of the
circumstances under which such statements were made, not
misleading with respect to the period covered by this report;

3. Based on my knowledge, the financial statements, and
other financial information included in this report, fairly
present in all material respects the financial condition,
results of operations and cash flows of the registrant as of,
and for, the periods presented in this report;

4. The registrant s other certifying officer and I are
responsible for establishing and maintaining disclosure controls
and procedures (as defined in Exchange Act
Rules  13a-15(e) 
and  15d-15(e))  and
internal control over financial reporting (as defined in
Exchange Act
Rules  13a-15(f) 
and  15d-15(f))  for the
registrant and have:

(a) Designed such disclosure controls and procedures, or
    caused such disclosure controls and procedures to be designed
    under our supervision, to ensure that material information
    relating to the registrant, including its consolidated
    subsidiaries, is made known to us by others within those
    entities, particularly during the period in which this report is
    being prepared; 

(b) Designed such internal control over financial
    reporting, or caused such internal control over financial
    reporting to be designed under our supervision, to provide
    reasonable assurance regarding the reliability of financial
    reporting and the preparation of financial statements for
    external purposes in accordance with generally accepted
    accounting principles; 

(c) Evaluated the effectiveness of the registrant s
    disclosure controls and procedures and presented in this report
    our conclusions about the effectiveness of the disclosure
    controls and procedures, as of the end of the period covered by
    this report based on such evaluation; and 

(d) Disclosed in this report any change in the
    registrant s internal control over financial reporting that
    occurred during the registrant s most recent fiscal quarter
    (the registrant s fourth fiscal quarter in the case of an
    annual report) that has materially affected, or is reasonably
    likely to materially affect, the registrant s internal
    control over financial reporting; and 

5. The registrant s other certifying officer and I
have disclosed, based on our most recent evaluation of internal
control over financial reporting, to the registrant s
auditors and the audit committee of the registrant s board
of directors (or persons performing the equivalent functions):

(a) All significant deficiencies and material weaknesses in
    the design or operation of internal control over financial
    reporting which are reasonably likely to adversely affect the
    registrant s ability to record, process, summarize and
    report financial information; and 

(b) Any fraud, whether or not material, that involves
    management or other employees who have a significant role in the
    registrant s internal control over financial reporting. 

Date: February 28, 2008

/s/  Steven J. Bensinger

Steven J. Bensinger 

Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer 

AIG 2007
Form  10-K          
223 

</EX-31>

<EX-32>
 6
 y44393exv32.htm
 EX-32: CERTIFICATIONS

EX-32 

American International Group, Inc. and Subsidiaries

Exhibit 32 

CERTIFICATION

In connection with this Annual Report on
Form  10-K  of
American International Group, Inc. (the  Company ) for
the year ended December 31, 2007, as filed with the
Securities and Exchange Commission on the date hereof (the
 Report ), I, Martin J. Sullivan, President and
Chief Executive Officer of the Company, certify, pursuant to
18 U.S.C. Section 1350, that to my knowledge:

(1) The Report fully complies with the requirements of
Section 13(a) or 15(d), as applicable, of the Securities
Exchange Act of 1934; and

(2) The information contained in the Report fairly
presents, in all material respects, the financial condition and
results of operations of the Company.

Date: February 28, 2008

/s/  Martin J. Sullivan

Martin J. Sullivan 

President and Chief Executive Officer 

The foregoing certification is being furnished solely pursuant
to 18 U.S.C. Section 1350 and is not being filed as
part of the Report or as a separate disclosure document.

224         AIG
2007 Form  10-K 

American International Group, Inc. and Subsidiaries

CERTIFICATION

In connection with this Annual Report on
Form  10-K  of
American International Group, Inc. (the  Company ) for
the year ended December 31, 2007, as filed with the
Securities and Exchange Commission on the date hereof (the
 Report ), I, Steven J. Bensinger, Executive Vice
President and Chief Financial Officer of the Company, certify,
pursuant to 18 U.S.C. Section 1350, that to my
knowledge:

(1) The Report fully complies with the requirements of
Section 13(a) or 15(d), as applicable, of the Securities
Exchange Act of 1934; and

(2) The information contained in the Report fairly
presents, in all material respects, the financial condition and
results of operations of the Company.

Date: February 28, 2008

/s/  Steven J. Bensinger

Steven J. Bensinger 

Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer 

The foregoing certification is being furnished solely pursuant
to 18 U.S.C. Section 1350 and is not being filed as
part of the Report or as a separate disclosure document.

AIG 2007
Form  10-K          
225 

</EX-32>

