<Header>
<FileStats>
    <FileName>20120223_10-K_edgar_data_5272_0001047469-12-001369_1.txt</FileName>
    <GrossFileSize>65083789</GrossFileSize>
    <NetFileSize>1246740</NetFileSize>
    <NonText_DocumentType_Chars>15511993</NonText_DocumentType_Chars>
    <HTML_Chars>12023833</HTML_Chars>
    <XBRL_Chars>24763648</XBRL_Chars>
    <XML_Chars>9921076</XML_Chars>
    <N_Tables>257</N_Tables>
    <N_Exhibits>16</N_Exhibits>
</FileStats>
<SEC-Header>
0001047469-12-001369.hdr.sgml : 20120223
<ACCEPTANCE-DATETIME>20120223160746
ACCESSION NUMBER:		0001047469-12-001369
CONFORMED SUBMISSION TYPE:	10-K
PUBLIC DOCUMENT COUNT:		28
CONFORMED PERIOD OF REPORT:	20111231
FILED AS OF DATE:		20120223
DATE AS OF CHANGE:		20120223

FILER:

	COMPANY DATA:	
		COMPANY CONFORMED NAME:			AMERICAN INTERNATIONAL GROUP INC
		CENTRAL INDEX KEY:			0000005272
		STANDARD INDUSTRIAL CLASSIFICATION:	FIRE, MARINE & CASUALTY INSURANCE [6331]
		IRS NUMBER:				132592361
		STATE OF INCORPORATION:			DE
		FISCAL YEAR END:			1231

	FILING VALUES:
		FORM TYPE:		10-K
		SEC ACT:		1934 Act
		SEC FILE NUMBER:	001-08787
		FILM NUMBER:		12633936

	BUSINESS ADDRESS:	
		STREET 1:		70 PINE ST
		CITY:			NEW YORK
		STATE:			NY
		ZIP:			10270
		BUSINESS PHONE:		2127707000

	MAIL ADDRESS:	
		STREET 1:		70 PINE STREET
		CITY:			NEW YORK
		STATE:			NY
		ZIP:			10270

	FORMER COMPANY:	
		FORMER CONFORMED NAME:	AMERICAN INTERNATIONAL ENTERPRISES INC
		DATE OF NAME CHANGE:	19700507

</SEC-Header>
</Header>

 0001047469-12-001369.txt : 20120223

10-K
 1
 a2207458z10-k.htm
 10-K

Use these links to rapidly review the document 
   Table of Contents   
   Interest Crediting Rates   
   ITEM 8. FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND SUPPLEMENTARY DATA   
   Index of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements   

Table of Contents    

UNITED STATES 
SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION       Washington, D.C. 20549     

FORM 10-K     

   ANNUAL REPORT PURSUANT TO SECTION 13 OR 15(d) OF THE SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934     

American International Group, Inc.       (Exact name of registrant as specified in its charter)     

Delaware     (State or other jurisdiction of 
incorporation or organization)  
     
    13-2592361     (I.R.S. Employer 
Identification No.)  

180 Maiden Lane, New York, New York     (Address of principal executive offices)  
      
     10038     (Zip Code)  

Registrant's telephone number, including area code (212) 770-7000     

Securities registered pursuant to Section 12(b) of the Act: See Exhibit 99.02   

   Securities registered pursuant to Section 12(g) of the Act: None     

Indicate by check mark if the registrant is a well-known seasoned issuer, as defined in Rule 405 of the Securities
Act. Yes        No       

Indicate by check mark if the registrant is not required to file reports pursuant to Section 13 or Section 15(d) of the
Act. Yes        No       

       Indicate by check mark whether the registrant (1) has filed all reports required to be filed by Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of
1934 during the preceding 12 months (or for such shorter period that the registrant was required to file such reports), and (2) has been subject to such filing requirements for the past
90 days. Yes        No       

Indicate by check mark whether the registrant has submitted electronically and posted on its corporate Web site, if any, every Interactive Data File required to be
submitted and posted pursuant to Rule 405 of Regulation S-T ( 232.405 of this chapter) during the preceding 12 months (or for such shorter period that the
registrant was required to submit and post such files). Yes        No       

       Indicate by check mark if disclosure of delinquent filers pursuant to Item 405 of Regulation S-K ( 229.405 of this chapter)
is not contained herein, and will not be contained, to the best of registrant's knowledge, in definitive proxy or information statements incorporated by reference in Part III of this
Form 10-K or any amendment to this Form 10-K.       

       Indicate by check mark whether the registrant is a large accelerated filer, an accelerated filer, a non-accelerated filer, or a smaller reporting
company. See the definitions of "large accelerated filer," "accelerated filer" and "smaller reporting company" in Rule 12b-2 of the Exchange Act.   

Large accelerated filer      
     
  Accelerated filer      
     
  Non-accelerated filer        (Do not check if a smaller 
reporting company)  
     
   Smaller reporting company      

Indicate
by check mark whether the registrant is a shell company (as defined in Rule 12b-2 of the
Act). Yes        No       

       The aggregate market value of the voting and nonvoting common equity held by nonaffiliates of the registrant (based on the closing price of the registrant's most
recently completed second fiscal quarter) was approximately $12,986,000,000.   

       As
of January 31, 2012, there were outstanding 1,896,865,688 shares of Common Stock, $2.50 par value per share, of the registrant.   

   DOCUMENTS INCORPORATED BY REFERENCE     

Table of Contents    

American International Group, Inc.   Annual Report on Form 10-K   For the Year Ended December 31, 2011          

Table of Contents          

Form 10-K 
Item Number    
     
   Description    
     
   Page    

PART I    

Item 1.   
     
       Business   
     
   4   

Analysis of Consolidated Loss Reserve Development   
     
   14   

Locations of Certain Assets   
     
   20   

Regulation   
     
   20   

Competition   
     
   26   

Other Information about AIG   
     
   26   

Directors and Executive Officers of AIG   
     
   27   

Item 1A.   
     
       Risk Factors   
     
   29   

Item 1B.   
     
       Unresolved Staff Comments   
     
   43   

Item 2.   
     
       Properties   
     
   43   

Item 3.   
     
       Legal Proceedings   
     
   43   

Item 4.   
     
       Mine Safety Disclosures   
     
   43   

PART II    

Item 5.   
     
       Market for Registrant's Common Equity, Related Stockholder Matters and Issuer Purchases 
of Equity Securities   
     
   44   

Item 6.   
     
       Selected Financial Data   
     
   47   

Item 7.   
     
       Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations   

49   

Cautionary Statement Regarding Forward-Looking Information   
     
   49   

Use of Non-GAAP Measures   
     
   50   

Executive Overview   
     
   50   

Outlook   
     
   52   

Results of Operations   
     
   61   

Consolidated Results   
     
   62   

Segment Results   
     
   71   

Chartis Operations   
     
   71   

Liability for Unpaid Claims and Claims Adjustment Expense   
     
   85   

SunAmerica Operations   
     
   106   

Aircraft Leasing Operations   
     
   113   

Other Operations   
     
   115   

Capital Resources and Liquidity   
     
   122   

Overview   
     
   122   

Liquidity Adequacy Management   
     
   122   

Analysis of Sources and Uses of Cash   
     
   123   

Liquidity of Parent and Subsidiaries   
     
   124   

Debt   
     
   131   

Credit Facilities   
     
   133   

Contractual Obligations   
     
   135   

Off-Balance Sheet Arrangements and Commercial Commitments   
     
   137   

Dividends from Insurance Subsidiaries   
     
   138   

Continued on next page    

2            AIG 2011 Form 10-K  

Table of Contents   

Table of Contents     (Continued)            

Form 10-K 
Item Number    
     
   Description    
     
   Page    

Regulation and Supervision   
     
   138   

Investments   
     
   139   

Investment Strategies   
     
   139   

Impairments   
     
   153   

Other-Than-Temporary Impairments   
     
   154   

Enterprise Risk Management   
     
   158   

Overview   
     
   158   

Credit Risk Management   
     
   160   

Market Risk Management   
     
   166   

Operational Risk Management   
     
   168   

Business Unit Risk Management   
     
   169   

Critical Accounting Estimates   
     
   177   

Item 7A.   
     
       Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures about Market Risk   

194   

Item 8.   
     
       Financial Statements and Supplementary Data   

195   

Note 1. Basis of Presentation and Significant Events   
     
   206   

Note 2. Summary of Significant Accounting Policies   
     
   212   

Note 3. Segment Information   
     
   231   

Note 4. Divested Businesses, Discontinued Operations and Held for Sale Classification   
     
   237   

Note 5. Business Combinations   
     
   240   

Note 6. Fair Value Measurements   
     
   241   

Note 7. Investments   
     
   266   

Note 8. Lending Activities   
     
   277   

Note 9. Reinsurance   
     
   279   

Note 10. Deferred Policy Acquisition Costs   
     
   282   

Note 11. Variable Interest Entities   
     
   283   

Note 12. Derivatives and Hedge Accounting   
     
   287   

Note 13. Liability for Unpaid Claims and Claims Adjustment Expense and Future 
                    Policy Benefits for Life and Accident and Health Insurance Contracts 
                    and Policyholder Contract Deposits   
     
   297   

Note 14. Variable Life and Annuity Contracts   
     
   300   

Note 15. Debt Outstanding   
     
   302   

Note 16. Commitments, Contingencies and Guarantees   
     
   308   

Note 17. Total Equity and Earnings (Loss) Per Share   
     
   329   

Note 18. Statutory Financial Data and Restrictions   
     
   338   

Note 19. Share-based Compensation and Other Plans   
     
   339   

Note 20. Employee Benefits   
     
   345   

Note 21. Ownership   
     
   354   

Note 22. Income Taxes   
     
   354   

Note 23. Quarterly Financial Information (Unaudited)   
     
   361   

Note 24. Information Provided in Connection with Outstanding Debt   
     
   362   

Item 9.   
     
       Changes in and Disagreements with Accountants on Accounting and Financial Disclosure   
     
   370   

Item 9A.   
     
       Controls and Procedures   
     
   370   

PART III      

Item 10.   
     
       Directors, Executive Officers and Corporate Governance   
     
   371   

Item 11.   
     
       Executive Compensation   
     
   371   

Item 12.   
     
       Security Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owners and Management and Related Stockholder Matters   
     
   371   

Item 13.   
     
       Certain Relationships and Related Transactions, and Director Independence   
     
   371   

Item 14.   
     
       Principal Accounting Fees and Services   
     
   371   

PART IV      

Item 15.   
     
       Exhibits, Financial Statement Schedules   
     
   372   

Signatures      

373   

AIG 2011 Form 10-K            3  

Table of Contents    

Part I          

ITEM 1. BUSINESS            

      American International Group, Inc. (AIG) is a leading international insurance organization serving customers in more than 130 countries.
AIG companies serve commercial, institutional and individual customers through one of the most extensive worldwide property-casualty networks of any insurer. In addition, AIG companies are leading
providers of life insurance and retirement services in the United States. AIG Common Stock, par value $2.50 per share (AIG Common Stock), is listed on the New York Stock Exchange and the Tokyo Stock
Exchange.   

      Throughout
this Annual Report on Form 10-K, the terms AIG, the Company, we, us and our are used to collectively refer to AIG, a Delaware corporation, and its
consolidated subsidiaries, unless the context otherwise requires. The term AIG Parent refers solely to American International Group, Inc., a Delaware corporation, and not to any of its
consolidated subsidiaries.   

      In
September 2008, liquidity issues resulted in AIG seeking and receiving governmental support through a credit facility from the Federal Reserve Bank of New York (the FRBNY, and such
credit facility, the FRBNY Credit Facility) and funding from the United States Department of the Treasury (Department of the Treasury) through the Troubled Asset Relief Program (TARP).   

      On
January 14, 2011, AIG was recapitalized (the Recapitalization) and the FRBNY Credit Facility was repaid and terminated through a series of transactions that resulted in the
Department of the Treasury becoming AIG's majority shareholder with ownership of approximately 92 percent of outstanding AIG Common Stock at that time. AIG understands that, subject to market
conditions, the Department of the Treasury intends to dispose of its ownership interest over time, and AIG has granted certain registration rights to the Department of the Treasury to facilitate such
sales.   

      On
May 27, 2011, AIG and the Department of the Treasury, as the selling shareholder, completed a registered public offering of AIG Common Stock. AIG issued and sold
100 million shares of AIG Common Stock for aggregate net proceeds of approximately $2.9 billion and the Department of the Treasury sold 200 million shares of AIG Common Stock. AIG
did not receive any of the proceeds from the sale of the shares of AIG Common Stock by the Department of the Treasury. As a result of the sale of AIG Common Stock in this offering, the Series G
Cumulative Mandatory Convertible Preferred Stock, par value $5.00 per share (the Series G Preferred Stock) was cancelled and the ownership of the outstanding AIG Common Stock by the Department
of the Treasury was reduced from approximately 92 percent to approximately 77 percent after the completion of the offering.   

      See
Item 7. Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations (MD A)   Capital Resources and Liquidity and Notes 1
and 17 to the Consolidated Financial Statements for further discussion of the governmental support provided to AIG and the Recapitalization.   

      In
order to align financial reporting with the manner in which AIG's chief operating decision makers review the businesses to allocate resources and assess performance, changes were made
during 2011 to AIG's segment information. See Note 3 to the Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information. AIG now reports its results of operations as
follows:   

Chartis      Chartis offers a breadth of insurance
products and services to businesses and individuals worldwide. Commercial insurance products are primarily distributed to businesses through insurance brokers. Major lines of business include
casualty, property, financial lines and specialty (including aerospace, environmental, marine, trade credit and political risk coverages, and various product offerings to small and medium enterprises
(SME)). Consumer insurance products are primarily distributed to individual consumers or groups of consumers through individual agents, brokers, and on a direct-to-consumer
basis. Consumer lines of business include accident   health (A H), personal lines, and life insurance.    

Chartis
conducts its business primarily through the following legal entities:   

National Union Fire Insurance Company of Pittsburgh, Pa.    

4            AIG 2011 Form 10-K  

Table of Contents   

New Hampshire Insurance Company     
           American Home Assurance Company     
           Lexington Insurance Company     
           AIU Insurance Company     
           Chartis Overseas, Ltd.     
           Fuji Fire   Marine Insurance Company Limited (Fuji)     
           Chartis Europe Holdings Limited     
           Chartis Europe, S.A.     

SunAmerica Financial Group (SunAmerica)      SunAmerica
offers a comprehensive suite of products and services to individuals and groups, including term life, universal life, A H, fixed and variable deferred annuities, fixed payout annuities, mutual funds
and financial planning. SunAmerica offers its products and services through a diverse, multi-channel distribution network that includes banks, national, regional and independent broker-dealers,
affiliated financial advisors, independent marketing organizations, independent and career insurance agents, structured settlement brokers, benefit consultants and
direct-to-consumer platforms.    

SunAmerica
conducts its business primarily through the following business units:   

American General Life Companies (American General)     
           Variable Annuity Life Insurance Company (VALIC)     
           Western National Life Insurance Company (Western National)     
           SunAmerica Retirement Markets (SARM)     
           Brokerage Services and Retail Mutual Funds    

SunAmerica
also includes the operations of SunAmerica Affordable Housing Partners, runoff Guaranteed Investment Contracts (GIC) and certain individual annuity
portfolios.   

Aircraft Leasing      AIG's commercial aircraft leasing
business is conducted through International Lease Finance Corporation (ILFC) (and, since the date of its acquisition by ILFC, AeroTurbine, Inc. (AeroTurbine)). Aircraft Leasing was previously
reported as a component of the Financial Services reportable segment.     
            Other Operations      AIG's Other operations include
results from Mortgage Guaranty operations (conducted through United Guaranty Corporation (UGC)), Global Capital Markets operations (consisting of the operations of AIG Markets, Inc. (AIG
Markets) and the remaining derivatives portfolio of AIG Financial Products Corp. and AIG Trading Group Inc. and their respective subsidiaries (collectively, AIGFP)), Direct Investment book
(including the Matched Investment Program (MIP)), Retained Interests (as defined below), Corporate   Other operations (after allocations to AIG's business segments) and those divested
businesses that did not qualify for discontinued operations accounting treatment.    

Prior
periods have been revised to conform to the current period presentation for the segment changes.   

      For
financial information concerning AIG's reportable segments, including geographic areas of operation, and changes made in 2011, see Note 3 to the Consolidated Financial
Statements.   

  AIG 2011 Form 10-K            5  

Table of Contents   

   The following charts present the sources of AIG's revenues (in millions) for the year ended December 31, 2011:   

Additional
information about AIG's operations follows:   

CHARTIS OPERATIONS    

      Chartis is a leading property-casualty and general insurance organization with over 44,000 employees serving more than 70 million clients
around the world. Chartis is diversified in terms of its customers, products, geography and distribution. Its combination of global reach and scale, extensive range of products and services,
diversified, multi-channel distribution network and strong capital, positions it to meet the demands of a broad range of customers.   

      In
2011, Chartis completed a reorganization of its operations, which streamlined Chartis' operating structure, improving its ability and flexibility to allocate capital efficiently
across businesses and regions. Chartis presents its financial information in two operating segments   Commercial Insurance and Consumer Insurance   as well as a
Chartis Other operations category. Previously, Chartis was organized and presented its financial information under Chartis U.S. and Chartis International. For the year ended December 31, 2011,
Commercial Insurance and Consumer Insurance represented approximately 62 percent and 38 percent, respectively, of Chartis total net premiums written. See Item 7.
MD A   Results of Operations   Segment Results   Chartis Operations   Chartis Results for Chartis net premiums written by
major line of business.   

COMMERCIAL INSURANCE   

      Commercial Insurance provides sophisticated risk management products and services to a breadth of businesses and organizations from multinational
corporations and mid-sized companies to small businesses and non-profit organizations. Chartis' product portfolio includes both traditional insurance coverage such as general
liability and commercial property, as well as highly specialized insurance for network security, aerospace, environmental liabilities, crisis management and financial lines. Chartis also offers
specialized underwriting for particular market segments and risks, such as the energy, construction, real estate and healthcare sectors.   

      Commercial
product lines include:   

Casualty:       Includes general liability, commercial automobile
liability, workers' compensation, excess casualty and crisis management coverages. Also includes risk management and other customized structured programs for large corporate customers and
multinational companies.    

6            AIG 2011 Form 10-K  

Table of Contents   

Property:       Includes industrial and commercial property
insurance products and energy, which cover exposures to man-made and natural disasters.     
            Specialty:       Includes environmental, political risk, trade
credit, surety, marine, and aerospace insurance, and various product offerings for SMEs.     
            Financial Lines:       Includes various forms of professional
liability insurance, including directors and officers (D O), fidelity, employment practices, fiduciary liability, network security, kidnap and ransom, and errors and omissions liability insurance that
protect individual insureds and corporate entities.    

CONSUMER INSURANCE   

      Consumer Insurance provides personal insurance solutions for individuals and families, including A H, specialty coverages for high
net-worth individuals, and homeowner and automobile insurance.   

      Consumer
product lines:   

Accident   Health:       Includes voluntary and
sponsor-paid personal accidental and supplemental health products, including accidental death and disability, accidental medical reimbursement, hospital indemnity and medical excess for
individuals, employees, associations and other organizations. It also includes a broad range of travel insurance products and services for leisure and business travelers, including trip cancellation,
trip interruption, lost baggage, travel assistance and concierge services.     
            Personal Lines:       Includes automobile, homeowners and extended
warranty insurance. It also includes coverages for high net worth individuals (offered through Chartis Private Client Group), including umbrella, yacht and fine art coverages, and consumer specialty
products, such as identity theft and credit card protection.     
            Life Insurance:       Includes life products offered primarily
through Fuji Life Insurance Company Ltd.    

CHARTIS OTHER   

      Chartis Other consists primarily of certain run-off lines of business, including excess workers' compensation and asbestos, certain
Chartis expenses relating to global corporate initiatives, expense allocations from AIG Parent, net investment income allocations not attributable to Commercial Insurance or Consumer Insurance
segments, realized capital gains and losses (including foreign currency transactions), the 2010 bargain purchase gain relating to the purchase of Fuji and gains relating to the sale of properties.   

CHARTIS BUSINESS STRATEGY   

      Chartis seeks to provide value for people and businesses worldwide through the identification and efficient management of risk. In pursuing this
mission and in growing its intrinsic value, Chartis has established strategic initiatives in four key areas:   

Business Mix Changes:       Grow in higher value lines of business
and geographies.     
            Loss Ratio Improvement:       Reduce loss costs and improve the
efficiency and servicing of customer claims through improved claims practices and enhanced technology.     
            Expense Discipline:       Improve efficiency, reducing recurring
operating expenses by leveraging its global footprint and expanded use of shared services.     
            Risk Selection:       Continue to enhance pricing and
risk-selection tools through better data mining, science and technology investments.    

Initiatives
in these areas are helping Chartis to direct its capital and resources to optimize financial results, while acknowledging that performance in these areas may vary from
quarter to quarter depending upon local market conditions, such as pricing and the effects of foreign exchange rates or changes in the investment environment. Chartis continues to further grow its
higher value and less capital intensive lines of business and to   

  AIG 2011 Form 10-K            7  

Table of Contents   

implement
corrective actions on underperforming businesses. Management continues to review its underlying businesses to ensure that they meet overall performance measures. Chartis will also continue
to implement cost savings initiatives.   

CHARTIS REGIONS   

      Chartis maintains a significant international presence in both developed markets and growth economy nations (primarily in Asia Pacific, the Middle
East and Latin America). Based on net premiums written in 2010, Chartis is the largest U.S. commercial insurer and the largest U.S.-based insurer in Europe, Japan and China. In addition,
Chartis was first to market in many developing nations and is well positioned to enhance its businesses in countries such as China, India and Brazil.   

The following chart presents Chartis Net premiums written (in millions) by region:            

In
2011, 6 percent and 5 percent of Chartis direct premiums written (gross premiums less return premiums and cancellations, excluding reinsurance assumed and before
deducting reinsurance ceded) were in the states of California and New York, respectively, and 18 percent and 7 percent in Japan and the United Kingdom, respectively. No other state or
foreign jurisdiction accounted for more than five percent of such premiums.   

      In
January 2012, Chartis further aligned its regions into the following geographic areas:   

Americas:       Includes the United States and Canada, as well as
Central America, South America, the Caribbean and Bermuda.     
            Asia Pacific:       Includes Japan and other Asia Pacific nations,
including China, Thailand, Vietnam, Australia and Indonesia.     
            EMEA (Europe, Middle East and Africa):       Includes the United
Kingdom, Continental Europe, Eastern Europe, Russia, the Middle East and Africa.    

CHARTIS DISTRIBUTION CHANNELS   

      Chartis distributes its products and services through a variety of distribution channels. Commercial Insurance is generally distributed through
global, regional and local brokers, agents and wholesalers. Consumer Insurance is generally distributed through insurance brokers, agents, direct to the consumer, and affinity groups. Direct to
consumer is a growing distribution channel for Chartis in many locations outside of the United States.   

8            AIG 2011 Form 10-K  

Table of Contents   

CHARTIS CUSTOMERS   

      Chartis serves over 70 million business and individual customers on a global basis   from the largest multinational
corporations to local businesses and individuals. Chartis is dedicated to creating a platform that is easy and convenient for customers to access. Chartis' clients benefit from its substantial
underwriting expertise and long-term commitment to the markets and clients it serves, as well as its tradition of product innovation. In 2011, Chartis introduced more than 170 products and
services worldwide.   

CHARTIS CAPITAL DEPLOYMENT   

      Chartis' scale and geographical diversification also allow the business to strategically deploy capital to pursue attractive long-term
opportunities around the world. Chartis regularly reviews and adjusts its business mix with the goals of aligning risk profile with risk tolerance and meeting its capital management objectives. See
Item 7. MD A   Capital Resources and Liquidity   Overview   Liquidity of Parent and Subsidiaries   Chartis for a
discussion of Chartis' capital maintenance agreements (CMAs).   

      Consistent
with AIG's worldwide insurance investment policy, Chartis places primary emphasis on investments in fixed maturity securities issued by corporations, municipalities and other
government agencies, and to a lesser extent, common stocks, private equity, hedge funds and other alternative investments.   

SUNAMERICA OPERATIONS    

      SunAmerica offers a comprehensive suite of products and services to individuals and groups including term life, universal life, A H, fixed and
variable deferred annuities, fixed payout annuities, mutual funds and financial planning. SunAmerica offers its products and services through a diverse, multi-channel distribution network that
includes banks, national, regional and independent broker-dealers, affiliated financial advisors, independent marketing organizations, independent and career insurance agents, structured settlement
brokers, benefit consultants and direct-to-consumer platforms.   

      SunAmerica
presents its business in two operating segments:    Domestic Life   , which focuses on mortality-and morbidity-based
protection products, and    Domestic Retirement Services   , which focuses on investment, retirement savings and income solution products.   

SUNAMERICA BUSINESS STRATEGY   

      SunAmerica's strategy is to increase sales of its products and services in a disciplined manner that drives consistent, profitable earnings growth
and efficient use of capital. To do so, SunAmerica seeks to take advantage of the growing need for insurance solutions to help Americans achieve their protection, investment, retirement savings and
retirement income goals. With its comprehensive platform of products and services offered through a diverse multi-channel distribution network, SunAmerica is well positioned to help a wide array of
customers meet their goals. SunAmerica plans to expand its distribution network by adding more distribution firms, increasing the number of individual agents and financial advisors who sell its
products and seeking to increase the productivity of those agents and advisors already selling its products, especially those in its affiliated group of career agents and financial advisors.   

  AIG 2011 Form 10-K            9  

Table of Contents   

The following chart presents SunAmerica sales by distribution channel:            

Sales
constitute life and group A H premiums from new policies expected to be collected over a one-year period and 10 percent of life unscheduled deposits, single
premiums and annuity deposits from new and existing customers.   

The following is a summary of SunAmerica's diversified distribution network:            

Affiliated    

Non-affiliated    

VALIC career financial advisors      Over 1,300 financial advisors serving the worksites of
educational, not-for-profit and governmental organizations  

Banks      Fixed annuities sold by nearly 600 banks and 69,000 financial institution
agents  

American General Life and Accident Insurance Company (AGLA) career agents      Over 3,100
agents focused on broad middle market  

Independent marketing organizations      Relationships with over 1,700 independent marketing
organizations and brokerage general agencies providing access to over 150,000 licensed independent agents  

Advisor Group      Over 4,600 independent financial advisors  

Broker-dealers      Access to over 120,000 licensed financial professionals  

Matrix Direct      A leading direct-to-consumer distributor of life and A H
products  

SunAmerica pursues a disciplined approach to pricing, product feature development, risk management, asset/liability management and expense
control. SunAmerica works to enhance operational efficiencies and service levels through prudent investments in technology, leveraging resources and enhancing utilization of lower cost operations
centers.   

DOMESTIC LIFE   

      SunAmerica's Domestic Life operations are conducted through American General.   

         American General    is a leading provider of individual term and universal life insurance solutions to middle-income and
high-net-worth customers. Primary products include term, universal and whole life insurance, A H, fixed and indexed deferred annuities, fixed payout annuities, private
placement variable annuities, structured   

  10            AIG 2011 Form 10-K  

Table of Contents   

settlements,
terminal funding, corporate-owned life insurance, bank-owned life insurance and group benefits. American General distributes its products through AGLA, Matrix Direct and
various independent marketing organizations, independent and career insurance agents, structured settlement brokers, benefit consultants and direct-to-consumer platforms.   

In
2012, American General and Chartis combined their U.S. group benefits businesses under the name AIG Benefit Solutions. This business will continue to market a wide range of insurance
and benefits products for employees, employers and affinity groups. In the near term, results of operations for the respective businesses will continue to be reported separately as part of American
General and Chartis.   

DOMESTIC RETIREMENT SERVICES   

SunAmerica's Domestic Retirement Services operations consist of five business units:   

         VALIC    is a leading provider of defined contribution retirement savings plans sponsored by education,
not-for-profit and government organizations. Primary products include fixed and variable group annuities, and group mutual funds. VALIC also offers group administrative and
compliance services, and individual annuity and mutual fund products. VALIC utilizes career and independent financial advisors to provide enrollment support and comprehensive financial planning
services.   

         Western National    is a leading provider of fixed deferred annuities to bank customers. Primary products include single and flexible premium
deferred fixed annuities. Western National maintains its leading industry position in bank distribution through its collaborative product design process and efficient and flexible administration
platform.   

         SARM    is a leading provider of deferred variable annuities, which provide comprehensive retirement income solutions. Variable annuities
provide market participation through a diverse menu of equity and fixed income portfolios, guaranteed death benefits and a suite of guaranteed retirement income solutions. SARM distributes products
through banks and national, regional and independent broker-dealer firms.   

         Brokerage Services and Retail Mutual Funds    includes the operations of SunAmerica Asset Management, which provides retail mutual funds and
administration services for variable annuity funds sponsored by VALIC and SARM, and Advisor Group, which is one of the largest networks of independent financial advisors in the U.S.   

      Domestic
Retirement Services also includes the operations of    SunAmerica Affordable Housing Partners   , runoff     GICs    and certain individual annuity portfolios.

The following charts present SunAmerica premiums and premiums, deposits and other considerations by line of business:   

Premiums

Premiums, Deposits and Other Considerations

Premiums
represent premiums received on traditional life insurance policies and deposits on life contingent payout annuities. Premiums, deposits and other considerations is a
non-GAAP measure which includes life insurance premiums as well as deposits on annuity contracts and mutual funds, but excludes policy fees.   

  AIG 2011 Form 10-K            11  

Table of Contents    

   The following table presents a reconciliation of premiums, deposits and other considerations to premiums:   

AIRCRAFT LEASING    

      Aircraft Leasing operations include the results of ILFC (and, since the date of its acquisition by ILFC, AeroTurbine, as discussed below). ILFC,
one of the world's leading aircraft lessors, acquires commercial jet aircraft from various manufacturers and other parties and leases those aircraft to airlines around the world. ILFC believes its
scale, the breadth and mix of its aircraft portfolio and its long-standing relationships with a global customer base that includes the majority of the world's leading airlines allow it to
lease aircraft under favorable terms and maximize their utilization.   

      As
of December 31, 2011, ILFC managed a lease portfolio of over 1,000 aircraft, including an owned fleet of 930 aircraft with a net book value of approximately
$35.5 billion. ILFC reported $4.5 billion in revenues for 2011. More than 94 percent of ILFC's lease revenue came from non-U.S. carriers, and its fleet continues to be
in high demand from such carriers.   

      On
September 2, 2011, ILFC Holdings, Inc., an indirect, wholly-owned subsidiary of AIG, which is intended to become a holding company for ILFC, filed a registration
statement on Form S-1 with the Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC) for a proposed initial public offering. The number of shares to be offered, price range and timing for any
offering have not been determined. The timing of any offering will depend on market conditions and no assurance can be given regarding the terms of any offering or that an offering will be completed.
On October 7, 2011, ILFC completed the acquisition of all the issued and outstanding shares of capital stock of AeroTurbine from AerCap, Inc. for an aggregate cash purchase price of
$228 million. AeroTurbine is one of the world's largest providers of certified aircraft engines, aircraft and engine parts and supply chain solutions.   

      ILFC
continues to execute on its strategy to manage its fleet of aircraft by ordering new aircraft with high customer demand and through potential sales or part-outs of its
older aircraft which cannot be economically leased to customers.   

OTHER OPERATIONS    

      AIG's Other operations include results from Mortgage Guaranty operations, Global Capital Markets operations, Direct Investment book, Retained
Interests, Corporate   Other operations (after allocations to AIG's business segments), and in periods prior to 2011, those divested businesses not included in Discontinued operations.   

MORTGAGE GUARANTY   

      UGC's main business is the issuance of residential mortgage guaranty insurance, both domestically and internationally, that covers mortgage
lenders for the first loss for credit defaults on high loan-to-value conventional first-lien mortgages for the purchase or refinance of one- to
four-family residences. UGC previously insured second-lien and private student loans, but ceased insuring new business in these products in 2008, although certain of the
second-lien policies are subject to reinstatement.   

GLOBAL CAPITAL MARKETS   

      Global Capital Markets consist of the operations of AIG Markets and the remaining derivatives portfolio of AIGFP. AIG Markets acts as the
derivatives intermediary between AIG companies and third parties, and executes its derivative trades under International Swaps and Derivatives Association, Inc. (ISDA) agreements. The   

  12            AIG 2011 Form 10-K  

Table of Contents   

agreements
with third parties typically require collateral postings. Many of AIG Markets' transactions with AIG and its subsidiaries also include collateral posting requirements. However, generally,
no collateral is called under these contracts unless it is needed to satisfy posting requirements with third parties.   

The
active wind-down of the AIGFP derivatives portfolio was completed by the end of the second quarter of 2011. Although the remaining AIGFP derivatives portfolio may
experience periodic fair value volatility, the portfolio consists predominantly of transactions AIG believes are of low complexity, low risk, supportive of AIG's risk management objectives or not
economically appropriate to unwind based on a cost versus benefit analysis. AIGFP is entering into new derivative transactions only to hedge its current portfolio.   

DIRECT INVESTMENT BOOK   

      The Direct Investment book includes results of the MIP, AIG's historical program to generate spread income from investments yielding returns
greater than AIG's cost of funds, and certain non-derivative assets and liabilities of AIGFP. The MIP assets and liabilities and the AIGFP portfolio are currently managed on a collective
program basis to limit the need for additional liquidity from AIG Parent. Direct Investment book operating results are significantly affected by performance in the credit, equity, interest rate and
foreign exchange markets.   

RETAINED INTERESTS   

      Retained Interests represents the fair value gains or losses on the AIA Group Limited (AIA) ordinary shares retained following the AIA initial
public offering, the retained interest in Maiden Lane III LLC (ML III) and, prior to their sale in March 2011, the MetLife, Inc. (MetLife) securities that were received as
consideration from the sale of American Life Insurance Company (ALICO).   

CORPORATE   OTHER   

      AIG's Corporate   Other operations consist primarily of interest expense, intercompany interest income that is eliminated in consolidation,
expenses of corporate staff not attributable to specific reportable segments (including restructuring costs), certain expenses related to internal controls and the financial and operating platforms,
corporate initiatives, certain compensation plan expenses, corporate level net realized capital gains and losses, certain litigation-related charges and credits, the results of AIG's real estate
investment operations and net gains
and losses on sale of divested businesses and properties that did not meet the criteria for discontinued operations accounting treatment.   

DIVESTED BUSINESSES   

      Divested businesses include the historical results of divested entities that did not meet the criteria for discontinued operations accounting
treatment. Divested businesses include the historical results of AIA through October 29, 2010 and AIG's remaining consumer finance business, discussed below. In the third quarter of 2010, AIG
completed an initial public offering of ordinary shares of AIA; upon completion of the initial public offering, AIG owned approximately 33 percent of the outstanding shares of AIA. Based on
AIG's continuing involvement with AIA, as a result of its ownership of 33 percent of AIA's shares and board representation, AIA is not presented as a discontinued operation. Businesses divested
in 2009 included Transatlantic Holdings, Inc. (Transatlantic), 21st Century Insurance Group; (including Agency Auto Division but excluding Chartis Private Client Group)
(21st Century) and HSB Group, Inc. (HSB).   

DISCONTINUED OPERATIONS   

      Discontinued operations include the results of ALICO, AIG Star Life Insurance Co., Ltd. (AIG Star), AIG Edison Life Insurance
Company (AIG Edison), Nan Shan Life Insurance Company, Ltd. (Nan Shan) and American General Finance, Inc. (AGF). In the fourth quarter of 2010, AIG closed the sales of ALICO and AGF. On
February 1, 2011 AIG closed the sale of AIG Star and AIG Edison and on August 18, 2011, AIG closed the sale of Nan Shan.   

  AIG 2011 Form 10-K            13  

Table of Contents   

      Additionally,
following the classification of AGF as a discontinued operation in the third quarter of 2010, AIG's remaining consumer finance business, which is primarily conducted
through the AIG Federal Savings Bank and the Consumer Finance Group in Poland, is now reported in AIG's Other operations category as part of Corporate   Other.   

See
Note 4 to the Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information on discontinued operations.   

INSURANCE ACTIVITIES    

LIABILITY FOR UNPAID CLAIMS AND CLAIMS ADJUSTMENT EXPENSE   

Background            

      Insurance companies are required to establish a liability for the ultimate costs, including loss adjustment expenses, of claims that have been
reported but not settled and estimates of claims that have been incurred but not reported (IBNR). Insurance companies are also required to recognize as assets the portion of such liability that will
be recovered from reinsurers. Reserves are discounted for future expected investment income, where permitted, as disclosed in Note 13 to the Consolidated Financial Statements.   

      Because
reserve estimates are subject to the outcome of future events, changes in estimates are unavoidable in the insurance industry. These changes in estimates are sometimes referred
to as "loss development" or "reserve development".   

      Management
reviews the adequacy of the established net liability for unpaid claims and claims adjustment expense (net loss reserves) utilizing a number of analytical reserve development
techniques. Through the use of these techniques, management monitors the adequacy of AIG's established reserves and determines appropriate assumptions for inflation and other factors influencing loss
costs. Also, analysis of emerging specific development patterns, such as case reserve redundancies or deficiencies and IBNR emergence, or analysis of specific structural
drivers of losses such as the historical versus expected future levels of medical cost trends, unemployment levels and other macroeconomics indicators, as well as the legislative framework and social
attitudes that affected the propensity to file claims or the magnitude of court awards, allows management to determine any required adjustments. A significant portion of Chartis' business is in the
commercial casualty class, which tends to involve longer periods of time for the reporting and settlement of claims and may increase the risk and uncertainty with respect to Chartis' loss reserve
development.   

Analysis of Consolidated Loss Reserve Development            

      To understand the changes in estimates, it is useful to put them in the context of cumulative reserve development experienced by AIG over a longer
time frame. The first table that follows presents the development of net loss reserves for calendar years 2001 through 2011. The net liability for unpaid claims and claims adjustment expenses (Net
Reserves Held) at the balance sheet date is shown on the first row of the table, net of discount. This liability represents the estimated amount of losses and loss adjustment expenses for claims
arising in all years prior to the balance sheet date that were unpaid as of that balance sheet date, including estimates for incurred but not reported claims. The amount of loss reserve discount
included in the net reserves at each date is shown immediately below the net reserves held. The undiscounted reserve at each date is equal to the sum of the discount and the net reserves held.   

      The
upper portion of the table presents the re-estimation over the years of the original undiscounted reserves. This re-estimation takes into consideration a
number of factors, including changes in the estimated frequency of reported claims, effects of significant judgments, the emergence of latent exposures, and changes in medical cost trends. For
example, in the first table, the original undiscounted reserve of $27.4 billion at December 31, 2001 was re-estimated to $55.4 billion at December 31, 2011. The
amount of the development related to losses settled or re-estimated in 2011, but incurred in 2008, is included in the cumulative development amount for years 2008, 2009, and 2010. Any
increase or decrease in the estimate is reflected in operating results in the period in which the estimate is changed.   

  14            AIG 2011 Form 10-K  

Table of Contents   

      The
net redundancy (deficiency) depicted in the middle of the table presents the aggregate change in estimates over the period of years subsequent to the balance sheet date reflected at
the top of the respective column heading. For example, in the first table, the net loss reserve deficiency of $28.0 billion for 2001 is the difference between the original undiscounted reserve
of $27.4 billion at December 31, 2001 and the $55.4 billion of re-estimated reserves at December 31, 2011. The net redundancy (deficiency) amounts are
cumulative; in other words, the amount shown for the 2010 balance sheet date includes the amount shown for the 2009 balance sheet date. Conditions and trends that have affected development of the
liability in the past may not necessarily occur in the future. Accordingly, it generally is not appropriate to extrapolate future development based on this table.   

      The
bottom portion of the table presents the cumulative amounts paid during successive years related to the undiscounted loss reserves. For example, AIG has paid a total of
$45.6 billion of the $55.4 billion in re-estimated reserves for December 31, 2001 at December 31, 2011, resulting in remaining undiscounted reserves of
$9.8 billion for 2001. Also included in this section are the remaining undiscounted and discounted net loss reserves for each year.   

The following table presents for each calendar year the loss reserves and the development thereof including those with respect to asbestos and environmental
claims.     (a)    

AIG 2011 Form 10-K            15  

Table of Contents    

   The following table presents the consolidated gross liability (before discount), reinsurance recoverable and net liability recorded for each calendar
year, and the reestimation of these amounts as of December 31, 2011     (a)     :   

(a)       During 2009, Transatlantic was deconsolidated and 21st Century and HSB were sold. The sales and deconsolidation are reflected in the table above as a
reduction in December 31, 2009 net reserves of $9.7 billion and as an $8.6 billion increase in paid losses for the years 2000 through 2008 to remove the reserves for these
divested entities from the ending balance.   
       (b)      The increase in Net Reserves Held from 2009 to 2010 is partially attributable to the $1.7 billion in Net Reserves Held by
Fuji, which was acquired in 2010. The decrease in 2011 is attributable to the cession of asbestos reserves described in Item 7. MD A   Results of
Operations   Segment Results   Chartis Operations   Liability for Unpaid Claims and Claims Adjustment Expense   Asbestos and
Environmental Reserves.    

16            AIG 2011 Form 10-K  

Table of Contents   

Consolidated Loss Reserve Development Excluding Asbestos and Environmental Reserve Development            

The following table presents for each calendar year the loss reserves and the development thereof excluding those with respect to asbestos and environmental claims for each
calendar year.      (a)     

AIG 2011 Form 10-K            17  

Table of Contents   

The following table presents the gross liability excluding amounts for asbestos and environmental claims (before discount), reinsurance
recoverable and net liability for each calendar year and the reestimation of these amounts as of December 31,
2011      (a)      :   

(a)       During 2009, Transatlantic was deconsolidated and 21st Century and HSB were sold. The sales and deconsolidation are reflected in the table above as a
reduction in December 31, 2009 net reserves of $9.6 billion and as an $8.6 billion increase in paid losses for the years 2000 through 2008 to remove the reserves for these
divested entities from the ending balance.   
       (b)      The increase in Net Reserves Held from 2009 to 2010 is partially attributable to the $1.7 billion in Net Reserves Held by
Fuji, which was acquired in 2010.    

The Liability for unpaid claims and claims adjustment expense as reported in AIG's Consolidated Balance Sheet at December 31, 2011 differs
from the total reserve reported in the annual statements filed with state insurance departments and, where applicable, with foreign regulatory authorities. The differences at December 31, 2011
relate primarily to reserves for certain foreign operations not required or permitted to be reported in the United States for statutory reporting purposes, including contingency reserves for
catastrophic events. Further, statutory practices in the United States require reserves to be shown net of applicable reinsurance recoverables. In addition, unlike statutory financial statements,
AIG's Liability for unpaid claims and claims adjustment expense reported on its Consolidated Balance Sheet and the amounts in the tables above exclude the effect of intercompany transactions.   

      Gross
loss reserves are calculated without reduction for reinsurance recoverables and represent the accumulation of estimates for reported losses and IBNR. Management reviews the
adequacy of established gross loss reserves in the manner previously described for net loss reserves.   

      Additional
information related to reserve development is included in Item 7. MD A   Results of Operations   Segment
Results   Chartis Operations   Liability for Unpaid Claims and Claims Adjustment Expense. A sensitivity analysis of loss reserves held at December 31,
2011, is included in Item 7. MD A   Critical Accounting Estimates   Liability for Unpaid Claims and Claims Adjustment Expense.   

REINSURANCE ACTIVITIES   

      AIG subsidiaries operate worldwide primarily by underwriting and accepting risks for their direct account on a gross line basis and subsequently
reinsuring on either an individual risk or an aggregate basis to the extent those risks exceed the desired retention level.   

      For
a further discussion of reinsurance, see Item 1A. Risk Factors   Reinsurance; and Item 7. MD A   Enterprise Risk
Management   Business Unit Risk Management   Reinsurance.   

18            AIG 2011 Form 10-K  

Table of Contents   

INSURANCE INVESTMENT ACTIVITIES   

      A significant portion of the revenues of Chartis and SunAmerica operations is derived from AIG's insurance investment activities. As insurance
companies, Chartis and SunAmerica generally receive premiums and deposits well in advance of paying covered claims or benefits. In the intervening periods, these premiums and deposits are invested to
generate net investment income and fee income that is available to pay claims or benefits.   

      AIG's
worldwide insurance investment policy places primary emphasis on investments in fixed income securities of corporations, municipal bonds and government issuances in all of its
portfolios, and, to a lesser extent, investments in high-yield bonds, common stocks, real estate, hedge funds and other alternative investments.   

      The
majority of assets backing insurance liabilities at AIG consist of intermediate and long duration fixed maturity securities.   

In
the case of SunAmerica, the fundamental investment strategy is, as nearly as is practicable, to match the duration characteristics of the liabilities with assets of comparable
duration. SunAmerica also invests in a diversified portfolio of private equity funds, hedge funds and affordable housing partnerships. Although subject to periodic volatility, these investments, to
date, have achieved yields in excess of SunAmerica's base portfolio yield. SunAmerica's expectation is that these alternative investments will continue to outperform the base portfolio yield over the
long-term.   

      Fixed
maturity securities held by the insurance companies included in Chartis domestic operations historically have consisted primarily of laddered holdings of tax-exempt
municipal bonds, which provided attractive after-tax returns and limited credit risk. In order to meet the Chartis domestic operations' current risk/return and tax objectives, the domestic
property and casualty companies have begun to shift investment allocations away from tax-exempt municipal bonds towards taxable instruments meeting the companies' liquidity, duration and
quality objectives as well as current risk-return and tax objectives. Fixed maturity securities held by Chartis operations internationally consist primarily of intermediate duration
high-grade securities.   

      See
Item 7. MD A   Investments   Investment Strategies for discussion of AIG's investment strategy.   

   The following table summarizes the investment results of AIG's insurance operations, excluding the results of discontinued operations:   

(a)       Includes real estate investments and excludes cash and short-term investments.
         (b)       Net investment income divided by the annual average investments.      
  AIG 2011 Form 10-K            19  

Table of Contents    

LOCATIONS OF CERTAIN ASSETS    

      As of December 31, 2011, approximately 14 percent of the consolidated assets of AIG were located outside the U.S. and Canada,
including $188 million of cash and securities on deposit with regulatory authorities in those locations. Operations outside the U.S. and Canada and assets held abroad may be adversely affected
by political developments in foreign countries, including tax changes, nationalization and changes in regulatory policy, as well as by consequence of hostilities and unrest. The risks of such
occurrences and their overall effect upon AIG vary from country to country and cannot easily be predicted. If expropriation or nationalization does occur, AIG's policy is to take all appropriate
measures to seek recovery of any affected assets. Certain of the countries in which AIG's business is conducted have currency restrictions that generally cause a delay in a company's ability to
repatriate assets and profits. See also Item 1A. Risk Factors   Foreign Operations and Notes 2 and 3 to the Consolidated Financial Statements.   

REGULATION    

      AIG's operations around the world are subject to regulation by many different types of regulatory authorities, including insurance, securities,
investment advisory, banking and thrift regulators in the United States and abroad.   

SUPERVISORY COORDINATOR   

      In 1999, AIG became a unitary savings and loan holding company within the meaning of the Home Owners' Loan Act (HOLA) when the U.S. Office of
Thrift Supervision (OTS) granted AIG approval to organize AIG Federal Savings Bank. Until March 2010, AIG was subject to OTS regulation, examination, supervision and reporting requirements.   

Under
prior law, a unitary savings and loan holding company, such as AIG, was not restricted as to the types of business in which it could engage, provided that its savings association
subsidiary continued to be a qualified thrift lender. The Gramm-Leach-Bliley Act of 1999 (GLBA) provides that no company may acquire control of an OTS-regulated institution after
May 4, 1999 unless it engages only in the financial activities permitted for financial holding companies under the law or for multiple savings and loan holding companies. The GLBA, however,
grandfathered the unrestricted authority for activities with respect to a unitary savings and loan holding company existing prior to May 4, 1999, so long as its savings association subsidiary
continues to be a qualified thrift lender under HOLA. As a unitary savings and loan holding company whose application was pending as of May 4, 1999, AIG is grandfathered under GLBA and
generally is not restricted under existing laws as to the types of business activities in which it may engage, provided that AIG Federal Savings Bank continues to be a qualified thrift lender under
HOLA.   

      Directive
2002/87/EC (the Directive) issued by the European Parliament provides that certain financial conglomerates with regulated entities in the European Union, such as AIG, are
subject to supplementary supervision. Pursuant to the Directive, the Commission Bancaire, the French banking regulator, was appointed as AIG's supervisory coordinator. From February 2007 until March
2010, with the approval of the Commission Bancaire, the OTS acted as AIG's equivalent supervisor, as permitted by the Directive in circumstances in which a financial conglomerate organized outside the
European Union, such as AIG, has proposed to have one of its existing regulators recognized as its coordinator and such regulator's supervision is determined to be equivalent to that required by the
Directive. Since March 2010, AIG has been in discussions with, and has provided information to, the Autorit  de Contr le Prudentiel (formerly, the Commission Bancaire)
and the UK Financial Services Authority regarding the possibility of proposing another of AIG's existing regulators as its equivalent supervisor.   

DODD-FRANK WALL STREET REFORM AND CONSUMER PROTECTION ACT   

      On July 21, 2010, the Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act (Dodd-Frank) was signed into law.
Dodd-Frank effects comprehensive changes to the regulation of financial services in the United States and will subject AIG to substantial additional federal regulation.
Dodd-Frank is intended to enhance the safety and soundness of U.S. financial institutions and increase public confidence in them. Dodd-Frank directs existing and newly-created
government agencies and oversight bodies to promulgate regulations implementing the law, an   

20            AIG 2011 Form 10-K  

Table of Contents   

ongoing
process that has begun and is anticipated to continue over the next few years. While a number of regulations have been adopted, other regulations have only been proposed or have yet to be
proposed. Therefore, AIG cannot predict with certainty the requirements of the regulations ultimately adopted or how or whether Dodd-Frank and such regulations will affect the financial
markets generally; impact AIG's businesses, results of operations, cash flows or financial condition; or require AIG to raise additional capital or result in a downgrade of AIG's credit ratings.   

      On
January 5, 2012, the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System (the FRB) published for public comment a notice of proposed rulemaking implementing the enhanced
prudential standards and early remediation requirements that will apply to non-bank systemically important financial institutions (SIFIs). If those rules are adopted in the form proposed
and AIG is designated as a non-bank SIFI, AIG would be required, among other things,    

to comply with FRB regulations relating to capital plans and stress tests and to calculate AIG's minimum
risk-based and leverage capital requirements, each as if it were a bank holding company;     
           to maintain a Tier 1 risk-based capital ratio of four percent, a total risk-based capital
ratio of eight percent and a Tier 1 leverage ratio of four percent;     
           to maintain a ratio of Tier 1 common equity to risk weighted assets of five percent under both expected and
stressed conditions in order to be able to engage in capital distributions;     
           to comply with additional liquidity-related requirements, such as to produce comprehensive cash flow projections, to
regularly stress test cash flow projections, to maintain a liquidity buffer of highly liquid assets that are unencumbered, to establish and maintain a contingency funding plan for liquidity stress
events, and to establish or maintain limits on potential sources of liquidity risk;     
           not to have aggregate net credit exposure to any single unaffiliated counterparty that exceeds 25 percent of AIG's
consolidated capital stock and surplus, or 10 percent if the counterparty has $500 billion or more in total consolidated assets;     
           to be subject to an annual stress test conducted by the FRB and annual and semi-annual
self-administered stress tests;     
           to be subject to early remediation actions upon occurrence of trigger events (such as failure to maintain the capital that
is commensurate with the level and nature of the risks to which AIG is exposed, or non-compliance with FRB's stress test), which early remediation actions could vary from heightened
supervisory review by the FRB to an FRB-recommended resolution of AIG, based on the seriousness of the trigger events;     
           to maintain a debt-to-equity ratio, measured by "total liabilities" and "total equity capital", of
no more than 15-to-1 upon a determination by the Financial Stability Oversight Council (the Council) that (i) the company poses a grave threat to the financial stability
of the United States and (ii) the imposition of such requirement is necessary to mitigate the risk that such company poses to the financial stability of the United States; and    
           to comply with certain corporate governance requirements, such as additional responsibilities of the board of directors
and the creation of a separate risk committee of the board of directors.    

Dodd-Frank's
potential impact on AIG also includes the following:   

The new legislation provides two scenarios in which the Board of Governors of the FRB could become AIG's regulator:
(1) if AIG is recognized as a "savings and loan holding company" as defined by the HOLA and/or (2) if Council designates AIG as a SIFI.     
           If AIG becomes subject, as a savings and loan holding company, to the examination, enforcement and supervisory authority
of the FRB, the FRB would be required to impose minimum leverage and risk-based capital requirements on AIG and its subsidiaries. AIG cannot predict what capital regulations the FRB would
promulgate under these authorizations, either generally or as applicable to insurance businesses, nor    
 
  AIG 2011 Form 10-K            21  

Table of Contents   

can
AIG predict how the FRB would exercise general supervisory authority over AIG. AIG expects, however, that when the Department of the Treasury ceases to own at least 50 percent of the
outstanding shares of AIG Common Stock, AIG will become regulated by the FRB as a savings and loan holding company.    

If AIG is designated as a SIFI the FRB could (i) limit AIG's ability to merge with, acquire, consolidate with, or
become affiliated with another company, to offer specified financial products or to terminate specified activities; (ii) impose conditions on how we conduct our activities or (iii) with
approval of the Council, and a determination that the foregoing actions are inadequate to mitigate a threat to U.S. financial stability, require AIG to sell or otherwise transfer assets or
off-balance-sheet items to unaffiliated entities.     
           In either scenario, AIG would become subject to stress tests to determine whether, on a consolidated basis, AIG has the
capital necessary to absorb losses due to adverse economic conditions.     
           The Council may recommend that state insurance regulators or other regulators apply new or heightened standards and
safeguards for activities or practices that AIG and other insurers or other financial services companies engage in.     
           In October 2011, federal regulators issued a proposed rule implementing certain provisions in Dodd-Frank
referred to as the "Volcker Rule". Under the proposed rule, if AIG continues to control AIG Federal Savings Bank, AIG and its affiliates would be considered banking entities and would become subject
to the provisions of Dodd-Frank prohibiting, subject to the rule's exceptions, "proprietary trading" and the sponsorship of, or investment in, hedge, private equity or similar funds and
the provision of guarantees related to such activities. Even if AIG no longer controlled an insured depository institution, AIG might still be subject to additional capital and quantitative
limitations under the Volcker Rule. The Volcker Rule, as proposed, contains an exemption for proprietary trading by insurance companies for their general account, but the final breadth and scope of
this exemption is uncertain.     
           Title II of Dodd-Frank provides that a financial company whose largest United States subsidiary is an insurer
may be subject to a special liquidation process outside the federal bankruptcy code. That process is to be administered by the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation (the FDIC) upon a coordinated
determination by the Secretary of the Treasury, the director of the Federal Insurance Office and the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System, in consultation with the FDIC, that such a
financial company is in default or in danger of default and presents a systemic risk to U.S. financial stability. AIG is a financial company and its largest U.S. subsidiary is an insurer.    
           Dodd-Frank establishes a new framework for regulation of the over-the-counter (OTC)
derivatives markets and certain market participants that could affect various activities of AIG and its insurance subsidiaries, as well as Global Capital Markets. These regulations could impose margin
or collateral requirements on derivative transactions entered into by AIG prior to the passage of Dodd-Frank or intercompany derivative transactions between AIG and one or more of its
affiliates or between affiliates. Any such margin or collateral requirements could adversely affect AIG's liquidity and credit ratings. The Commodity Futures Trading Commission (CFTC) and SEC have
published proposed rules governing major swap participants and major security-based swap participants. If AIG or one or more of its subsidiaries meet the tests finally adopted by the CFTC or SEC, AIG
or one or more of its subsidiaries may become subject to derivative transaction clearing, execution and reporting requirements, capital and margin requirements and business conduct rules.    
           Dodd-Frank mandated a study to determine whether stable value contracts should be included in the definition
of "swap." If that study concludes that stable value contracts are swaps, Dodd-Frank authorizes certain federal regulators to determine whether an exemption from the definition of a swap
is appropriate and in the public interest. Certain affiliates of AIG are in or may participate in the stable value contract business. AIG cannot predict what regulations might emanate from the
aforementioned study or be promulgated applicable to this business in the future.     
           Dodd-Frank established a Federal Insurance Office (FIO) within the Department of the Treasury headed by a
director appointed by the Secretary of the Treasury. While not having a general supervisory or regulatory    

22            AIG 2011 Form 10-K  

Table of Contents   

authority
over the business of insurance, the director of this office performs various functions with respect to insurance (other than health insurance), including serving as a non-voting
member of the Council and participating in the Council's decisions regarding insurers, potentially including AIG, to be designated as a SIFI. The director is also required to conduct a study on how to
modernize and improve the system of insurance regulation in the United States, including by increased national uniformity through either a federal charter or effective action by the states. The FIO
may also recommend enhanced regulations to state insurance regulatory bodies.    

Dodd-Frank authorizes the FRB to require a savings and loan holding company or a SIFI to place its financial
activities in an intermediate holding company separate from non-financial activities (as defined for purposes of the Bank Holding Company Act) and imposes restrictions on transactions
between the two businesses, which could be burdensome and costly to implement.     
           Dodd-Frank established the Consumer Financial Protection Bureau (CFPB) as an independent agency within the FRB
to regulate consumer financial products and services offered primarily for personal, family or household purposes. Insurance products and services are not within the CFPB's general jurisdiction,
though the U.S. Department of Housing and Urban Development has since transferred authority to the CFPB to investigate mortgage insurance practices. Broker-dealers and investment advisers are not
subject to the CFPB's jurisdiction when acting in their registered capacity.     
           Title XIV of Dodd-Frank also restricts certain terms for mortgage loans, such as loan fees, prepayment fees
and other charges, and imposes certain duties on a lender to ensure that a borrower can afford to repay the loan.     
           Dodd-Frank seeks to increase efficiency, reduce transaction costs and improve consumer access in the
nonadmitted property and casualty insurance market (excess and surplus lines). AIG expects that these measures will make certain of Chartis' operations within the U.S. more streamlined and efficient,
although they could lead to greater competition in these markets.     
           Dodd-Frank includes various securities law reforms that may affect AIG's business practices and the
liabilities and/or exposures associated therewith, including:    

The SEC completed a staff report on registered broker-dealers who provide personalized investment advice to retail
investors, such as certain of SunAmerica's operations. The staff report recommended to Congress a uniform fiduciary standard of conduct for broker-dealers and investment advisers. The SEC may also
require broker-dealers selling proprietary or a limited range of products to make certain disclosures and obtain customer consents or acknowledgements.     
           The SEC and other regulators proposed regulations requiring the originator of certain asset-backed securities to retain at
least five percent of the credit risk of securities sold, which, if adopted, may apply to activities of subsidiaries of AIG as part of their funding activities in the future.    

Dodd-Frank
imposes various assessments on financial companies, including, as applicable to AIG, ex-post assessments to provide funds necessary to repay any
borrowing and to cover the costs of any special resolution of a financial company conducted under Title II (although the regulatory authority would have to take account of the amounts paid by AIG into
state guaranty funds). AIG cannot predict the potential effects the new legislation will have on its organizational structure, financial condition or results of operations. However, it is possible
that such effect could be materially adverse. See Item 1A. Risk Factors   Regulation for additional information.   

In
addition to the adoption of Dodd-Frank in the United States, regulators and lawmakers around the world are actively reviewing the causes of the financial crisis and taking
steps to avoid similar problems in the future. The Financial Stability Board (FSB), consisting of representatives of national financial authorities of the G20 nations, has issued a series of
frameworks and recommendations intended to produce significant changes in how financial companies, particularly systematically important financial institutions, should be regulated. These frameworks
and recommendations address such issues as financial group supervision, capital and solvency standards, systemic economic risk, corporate governance including compensation, and a host of related
issues associated with responses to the financial crisis. The FSB has directed the International Association of Insurance Supervisors (the   

  AIG 2011 Form 10-K            23  

Table of Contents   

IAIS,
headquartered in Basel, Switzerland) to create standards relative to these areas and incorporate them within that body's Insurance Core Principles. IAIS Insurance Core Principles form the
baseline threshold for how countries' financial services regulatory efforts are measured relative to the insurance sector. That measurement is made by periodic Financial Sector Assessment Program
(FSAP) reviews conducted by the World Bank and the International Monetary Fund and the reports thereon spur the development of country-specific additional or amended regulatory changes. Lawmakers and
regulatory authorities in a number of jurisdictions in which AIG's subsidiaries conduct business have already begun implementing legislative and regulatory changes consistent with these
recommendations, including proposals governing consolidated regulation of insurance holdings companies by the Financial Services Agency in Japan, financial and banking regulation adopted in France and
compensation
regulations proposed or adopted by the financial regulators in Germany and the United Kingdom Financial Services Authority.   

AIG
cannot predict whether these actions will become effective or the effect they may have on the financial markets or on AIG's business, results of operations, cash flows, financial
condition and credit ratings.   

OTHER REGULATORY DEVELOPMENTS   

      AIG's operations are subject to regulatory supervision and the possibility of intervention. In light of AIG's liquidity problems beginning in the
third quarter of 2008, AIG and its regulated subsidiaries have been subject to intense review and supervision around the world. Regulators have taken significant steps to protect the businesses of the
entities they regulate. These steps have included:   

restricting or prohibiting the payment of dividends to AIG Parent and its subsidiaries;     
           restricting or prohibiting other payments to AIG Parent and its subsidiaries;     
           requesting additional capital contributions from AIG Parent;     
           requesting that intercompany reinsurance reserves be covered by assets locally;     
           restricting the business in which the subsidiaries may engage;     
           requiring pre-approval of all proposed transactions between the regulated subsidiaries and AIG Parent or any
affiliate; and     
           requiring more frequent reporting, including with respect to capital and liquidity positions.    

Many
of these prohibitions and restrictions have been relaxed. However, AIG continues to be subject to heightened regulatory scrutiny.   

      Legislation
in the European Union could also affect AIG's international insurance operations. The Solvency II Directive (2009/138/EEC), which was adopted on November 25, 2009 and
is expected to become effective in January 2014 (Solvency II), reforms the insurance industry's solvency framework, including minimum capital and solvency requirements, governance requirements, risk
management and public reporting standards. The impact on AIG will depend on whether the U.S. insurance regulatory regime is deemed "equivalent" to Solvency II; if the U.S. insurance regulatory regime
is not equivalent, then AIG as a group could be required to be supervised under Solvency II standards. Whether the U.S. insurance regulatory regime will be deemed "equivalent" is still under
consideration by European authorities and remains uncertain, so AIG is not currently able to predict the impact of Solvency II.   

      AIG
expects that the regulations applicable to it and its regulated entities will continue to evolve for the foreseeable future.   

REGULATION OF INSURANCE SUBSIDIARIES   

      Certain states require registration and periodic reporting by insurance companies that are licensed in such states and are controlled by other
corporations. Applicable legislation typically requires periodic disclosure concerning the corporation that controls the registered insurer and the other companies in the holding company system and
prior approval of intercorporate services and transfers of assets, including in some instances payment of dividends   

  24            AIG 2011 Form 10-K  

Table of Contents   

by
the insurance subsidiary, within the holding company system. AIG's subsidiaries are registered under such legislation in those states that have such requirements.   

      AIG's
insurance subsidiaries, in common with other insurers, are subject to regulation and supervision by the states and by other jurisdictions in which they do business. Within the
United States, the method of such regulation varies but generally has its source in statutes that delegate regulatory and supervisory powers to an insurance official. The regulation and supervision
relate primarily to the financial condition of the insurers and their corporate conduct and market conduct activities. This includes approval of policy forms and rates, the standards of solvency that
must be met and maintained, including with respect to risk-based capital, the licensing of insurers and their agents, the nature of and limitations on investments, restrictions on the size
of risks that may be insured under a single policy, deposits of securities for the benefit of policyholders, requirements for acceptability of reinsurers, periodic examinations of the affairs of
insurance companies, the form and content of reports of financial condition required to be filed and reserves for unearned premiums, losses and other purposes. In general, such regulation is for the
protection of policyholders rather than the equity owners of these companies.   

      AIG
has taken various steps to enhance the capital positions of the domestic Chartis and SunAmerica companies. AIG entered into capital maintenance agreements with these companies that
set forth procedures through which AIG has provided, and expects to continue to provide, capital support. Also, in order to allow the domestic Chartis and SunAmerica companies to record as an admitted
asset at December 31, 2011 certain reinsurance ceded to reinsurers, which has the effect of maintaining the level of the statutory surplus of such companies, AIG obtained and entered into
reimbursement agreements for approximately $1.45 billion and $800 million of letters of credit issued by several commercial banks in favor of certain Chartis and SunAmerica companies,
respectively.   

      In
the U.S., the Risk-Based Capital (RBC) formula is designed to measure the adequacy of an insurer's statutory surplus in relation to the risks inherent in its business. The
RBC Model Law, which allows states to act upon the results of RBC calculations, provides for four incremental levels of regulatory action regarding insurers whose RBC calculations fall below specific
thresholds. Those levels of action range from the requirement to submit a plan describing how an insurer would regain a calculated RBC ratio above the respective threshold through a mandatory
regulatory takeover of the company. The action thresholds are based on RBC levels that are calculated so that a company, subject to such actions, is solvent but its future solvency is in doubt without
some type of corrective action. The RBC formula computes a risk-adjusted surplus level by applying discrete factors to various asset, premium and reserve items. These factors are developed
to be risk-sensitive so that higher factors are applied to items exposed to greater risk.   

      The
statutory surplus of each of AIG's U.S.-based life and property and casualty insurance subsidiaries exceeded RBC minimum required levels as of December 31, 2011.   

      To
the extent that any of AIG's insurance entities would fall below prescribed levels of statutory surplus, it would be AIG's intention to provide appropriate capital or other types of
support to that entity, under formal support agreements or CMAs or otherwise. For additional details regarding CMAs that AIG has entered into with its insurance subsidiaries, see Item 7.
MD A   Liquidity of Parent and Subsidiaries   Chartis, and Liquidity of Parent and Subsidiaries.   

      There
are a number of proposals to amend state insurance laws and regulations in ways that could affect AIG and its subsidiaries. The National Association of Insurance Commissioners
(NAIC) has recently adopted or amended model laws on holding company regulation that would provide for supervision of insurers at the corporate group level. Although these changes are only beginning
to be adopted by individual state regulators, it can be expected
that most will ultimately adopt them in some form. The various proposals to implement group supervision include:   

uniform standards for insurer corporate governance;     
           group-wide supervision of insurance holding companies;     
           adjustments to RBC calculations to account for group-wide risks; and     
           additional regulatory and disclosure requirements for insurance holding companies.    
 
  AIG 2011 Form 10-K            25  

Table of Contents   

      Additionally,
the NAIC has undertaken the Solvency Modernization Initiative (SMI) which focuses on a review of insurance solvency regulations throughout the U.S. financial regulatory
system and will lead to a set of long-term solvency modernization goals. SMI is broad in scope, but the NAIC has stated that its focus will include the U.S. solvency framework, group
solvency issues, capital requirements, international accounting and regulatory standards, reinsurance and corporate governance.   

      AIG
cannot predict the potential effect that any new regulations would have on AIG's insurance subsidiaries or on AIG's business, results of operations, cash flows or financial
condition.   

REGULATION OF DOMESTIC SUBSIDIARIES IN FOREIGN JURISDICTIONS   

      A substantial portion of Chartis' business is conducted in foreign countries. The degree of regulation and supervision in foreign jurisdictions
varies. Generally, AIG, as well as the underwriting companies operating in such jurisdictions, must satisfy local regulatory requirements. Licenses issued by foreign authorities to AIG subsidiaries
are subject to modification or revocation by such authorities, and these subsidiaries could be prevented from conducting business in certain of the jurisdictions where they currently operate.   

      In
addition to licensing requirements, AIG's foreign operations are also regulated in various jurisdictions with respect to currency, policy language and terms, advertising, amount and
type of security deposits, amount and type of reserves, amount and type of capital to be held, amount and type of local investment and the share of profits to be returned to policyholders on
participating policies. Some foreign countries regulate rates on various types of policies. Certain countries have established reinsurance institutions, wholly or partially owned by the local
government, to which admitted insurers are obligated to cede a portion of their business on terms that may not always allow foreign insurers, including AIG subsidiaries, full compensation. In some
countries, regulations governing constitution of technical reserves and remittance balances may hinder remittance of profits and repatriation of assets.   

See
Item 7. MD A   Capital Resources and Liquidity   Regulation and Supervision and Note 18 to the Consolidated Financial Statements.   

COMPETITION    

      AIG's businesses operate in highly competitive environments, both domestically and overseas. Principal sources of competition are insurance
companies, banks, investment banks and other non-bank financial institutions. AIG considers its principal competitors to be other large multi-national insurance organizations.   

The
insurance industry in particular is highly competitive. Within the United States, Chartis subsidiaries compete with approximately 3,200 other stock companies, specialty insurance
organizations, mutual companies and other underwriting organizations. SunAmerica subsidiaries compete in the United States with approximately 2,000 life insurance companies and other participants in
related financial services fields. Overseas, AIG's subsidiaries compete for business with the foreign insurance operations of large U.S. insurers and with global insurance groups and local companies
in particular areas in which they are active.   

      As
a result of the reduction of the credit ratings of AIG and its subsidiaries, AIG's businesses have faced and continue to face intense competition to retain existing customers and to
maintain business with existing customers and counterparties at historical levels. General insurance and life insurance companies compete through a combination of risk acceptance criteria, product
pricing, and terms and conditions. Retirement services companies compete through crediting rates and the issuance of guaranteed benefits.   

      For
a further discussion of the risks relating to retaining existing customers, soliciting new customers and retaining key employees, see Item 1A. Risk
Factors   Competition.   

OTHER INFORMATION ABOUT AIG    

      At December 31, 2011, AIG and its subsidiaries had approximately 57,000 employees.   

  26            AIG 2011 Form 10-K  

Table of Contents   

      AIG's
internet address for its corporate website is    www.aig.com.    AIG makes available free of charge, through the Investor Information
section of AIG's corporate website, Annual Reports on Form 10-K, Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q, Current Reports on Form 8-K and Proxy
Statements on Schedule 14A and amendments to those reports or statements filed or furnished pursuant to Sections 13(a), 14(a) or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended
(the Exchange Act), as soon as reasonably practicable after such materials are electronically filed with, or furnished to, the SEC. AIG also makes available on its corporate website copies of the
charters for its Audit, Nominating and Corporate Governance, Compensation and Management Resources, Finance and Risk Management, and Regulatory, Compliance and Public Policy Committees, as well as its
Corporate Governance Guidelines (which include Director Independence Standards), Director, Executive Officer and Senior Financial Officer Code of Business Conduct and Ethics, Employee Code of Conduct
and Related-Party Transactions Approval Policy. Except for the documents specifically incorporated by reference into this Annual Report on Form 10-K, information contained on AIG's
website or that can be accessed through its website is not incorporated by reference into this Annual Report on Form 10-K.   

DIRECTORS AND OFFICERS OF AIG    

Information concerning the directors and executive officers of AIG as of February 23, 2012 is set forth below.   

All directors of AIG are elected for one-year terms at the annual meeting of shareholders.   

      All
executive officers are elected to one-year terms, but serve at the pleasure of the Board of Directors. Except as hereinafter noted, each of the executive officers has,
for more than five years, occupied an executive position with AIG or companies that are now its subsidiaries. There are no arrangements or understandings between any executive officer and any other
person pursuant to which the executive officer was elected to such position.   

      Robert
Benmosche joined AIG as Chief Executive Officer in August 2009. Prior to joining AIG, Mr. Benmosche served as a member of the Board of Directors of Credit Suisse Group
since 2002. In addition,   

  AIG 2011 Form 10-K            27  

Table of Contents   

Mr. Benmosche
was the former Chairman, President and Chief Executive Officer of MetLife, a leading provider of insurance and other financial services from 1998 until 2006.   

      Michael
R. Cowan joined AIG as Senior Vice President and Chief Administrative Officer in January 2010. Prior to joining AIG, he was at Merrill Lynch where he had served as Senior Vice
President, Global Corporate Services, since 1998. Mr. Cowan began his career at Merrill Lynch in 1986 as a Financial Manager and later served as Chief Administrative Officer for Europe, the
Middle East and Africa. He was also Chief Financial Officer and a member of the Executive Management Committee for the Global Private Client business, including Merrill Lynch Asset Management.   

Thomas
Russo joined AIG as Executive Vice President   Legal, Compliance, Regulatory Affairs and Government Affairs and General Counsel in February 2010. Prior to
joining AIG, Mr. Russo was with the law firm of Patton Boggs, LLP, where he served as Senior Counsel. Prior to that, he was a Vice Chairman of Lehman
Brothers Inc. and Chief Legal Officer of Lehman Brothers Holdings, Inc. Before joining Lehman Brothers in 1993, he was a partner at the law firm of Cadwalader, Wickersham   Taft
and a member of its Management Committee.   

      Peter
Hancock joined AIG in February 2010 as Executive Vice President of Finance and Risk. Prior to joining AIG, Mr. Hancock served as Vice Chairman of KeyCorp, responsible for
Key National Banking. Prior to KeyCorp, he served as Managing Director of Trinsum Group, Inc. Prior to that position, Mr. Hancock was at JP Morgan for 20 years, eventually serving
as head of its fixed income division and ultimately Chief Financial Officer.   

      Sid
Sankaran joined AIG in December 2010 as Senior Vice President and Chief Risk Officer. Prior to that, he was a partner in the Finance and Risk practice of Oliver Wyman Financial
Services and served as Canadian Market Manager since 2006.   

      Charles
S. Shamieh joined AIG in 2007 as Executive Director of Enterprise Risk Management. In January 2011, Mr. Shamieh was elected to his current position of Senior Vice
President and Corporate Chief Actuary. Prior to joining AIG, Mr. Shamieh was Group Chief Risk Officer for Munich Re Group and a Member of the Group Committee of Munich Re's Board of Management
since 2006.   

  28            AIG 2011 Form 10-K  

Table of Contents    

ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS            

      We were significantly and adversely affected by the market turmoil in late 2008 and early 2009. In addition, we continued to experience a
challenging business environment, as well as volatile market conditions, throughout 2011. As a result, our businesses, consolidated results of operations, financial conditions and liquidity are
subject to significant risks, as discussed below. This challenging environment and volatile market conditions may continue in 2012.   

The
risks described below are not the only ones we face. Additional risks that are not currently known to us or that we currently believe are immaterial may also adversely affect our
businesses, results of operations, financial condition or liquidity. Many of these risks are interrelated and occur under similar business and economic conditions, and the occurrence of certain of
them may in turn cause the emergence, or exacerbate the effect, of others. Such a combination could materially increase the severity of the impact on our operations, liquidity and financial condition.   

MARKET CONDITIONS    

        Our businesses, consolidated results of operations and financial condition have been, and may continue to be, materially and adversely affected by market
conditions.       Our businesses are highly dependent on the business environment in which they operate. In 2008 and through early 2009, the significant deterioration in
worldwide economic conditions materially and adversely affected our businesses. The global financial crisis resulted in a serious lack of liquidity, highly volatile markets, a steep depreciation in
asset values across all classes, an erosion of investor and public confidence, a widening of credit spreads, a lack of price transparency in many markets, and the collapse or merger of several
prominent financial institutions. Difficult economic conditions also resulted in increased unemployment and a severe decline in business activity across a wide range of industries and regions. A
challenging business environment and volatile markets persisted through 2011 and may continue in 2012. As a result, asset values for many asset classes have not returned to previous levels, and
business, financial and economic conditions continue to be negatively affected, particularly in light of high unemployment levels. Revenue and budget constraints affecting U.S. municipalities, lending
activities and the housing and commercial property markets also continue to have a negative effect on asset values. Further, the adverse European economic and financial conditions related to sovereign
debt issues in certain countries and concerns regarding the European Union have contributed to increased instability in global credit markets. If such conditions persist, we may be negatively affected
in a number of ways, including, but not limited to:   

declines in the valuation and performance of our investment portfolio;     
           declines in the value of our remaining shares in AIA;     
           an inability to monetize our interest in ILFC;     
           increased credit losses;     
           impairments of goodwill, aircraft and other long-lived assets;     
           additional statutory capital requirements;     
           limitations on our ability to recover deferred tax assets;     
           a decline in new business levels;     
           a decline in insured values caused by a decrease in activity at client organizations;     
           an increase in liability for future policy benefits due to loss recognition on certain long-duration insurance
contracts;     
           higher borrowing costs and more limited availability of credit for AIG Parent and our subsidiaries;    
           an increase in policy surrenders and cancellations; and    
           a writeoff of deferred policy acquisition costs (DAC).    
 
  AIG 2011 Form 10-K            29  

Table of Contents   

       Sustained low interest rates may affect our profitability.       We have substantial investment portfolios that support our policy liabilities. Low levels
of interest rates on investments have reduced the level of investment income earned by AIG. If a low interest-rate environment persists, we may experience slower investment income growth
and we may not be able to fully mitigate the interest rate risk of our assets relative to our liabilities. A decline in interest rates could impair our ability to earn the returns assumed in the
pricing and the reserving for our products at the time they were sold and issued.   

INVESTMENT PORTFOLIO AND CONCENTRATION OF INVESTMENTS, INSURANCE AND OTHER  EXPOSURES    

        The value of our investment portfolio is subject to a number of risks and uncertainties, including changes in interest rates.       Changes in interest
rates can negatively affect the performance of our investment securities. Interest rates are highly sensitive to many factors, including monetary policies, domestic and international economic and
political issues and other factors beyond our control. Changes in monetary policy or other factors may cause interest rates to rise, which would adversely affect the value of the fixed income
securities that we hold and could adversely affect our ability to sell these securities. In addition, the evaluation of available-for-sale securities for
other-than-temporary impairments is a quantitative and qualitative process that is subject to significant management judgment.   

        Concentration of our investment portfolios in any particular segment of the economy may have adverse effects.       Our results of operations have been
adversely affected and may continue to be adversely affected by a concentration in residential mortgage-backed, commercial mortgage-backed and other asset-backed securities and commercial mortgage
loans. We also have significant exposures to: financial institutions and, in particular, to money center and global banks; U.S. state and local government issuers and authorities (as described below);
and Eurozone financial institutions and governments and corporations. These types of concentrations in our investment portfolios could have an adverse effect on the value of these portfolios and
consequently on our consolidated results of operations and financial condition. Events or developments that have a negative effect on any particular industry, asset class, group of related industries
or geographic region may have a greater adverse effect on the investment
portfolios to the extent that the portfolios are concentrated. Furthermore, our ability to sell assets relating to such particular groups of related assets may be limited if other market participants
are seeking to sell at the same time.   

       The value of our investment portfolio is exposed to the creditworthiness of state and municipal governments.       We hold a large portfolio of state and
municipal bonds ($37.4 billion at December 31, 2011), primarily in Chartis, and, because of the budgetary pressures that states and municipalities are continuing to face in the current
economic environment, the risks associated with this portfolio remain. Defaults, or the prospect of imminent defaults, by the issuers of state and municipal bonds could cause our portfolio to decline
in value and significantly reduce the portfolio's liquidity, which could also adversely affect AIG Parent's liquidity if AIG Parent then needed, or was required by its capital maintenance agreements,
to provide additional capital support to the insurance subsidiaries holding the affected state and municipal bonds. As with our fixed income security portfolio generally, rising interest rates would
also negatively affect the value of our portfolio of state and municipal bonds and could make those instruments more difficult to sell. A decline in the liquidity or market value of these instruments,
which are carried at fair value for statutory purposes, could also result in a decline in the Chartis entities' capital ratios and, in turn, require AIG Parent to provide additional capital to those
entities.   

        Concentration of our insurance and other risk exposures may have adverse effects.       We seek to manage the risks to which we are exposed as a result of
the securities or loans we hold and the insurance policies, derivatives and other obligations that we undertake to customers and counterparties by monitoring the accumulation of our exposures by
exposure type, industry, geographic region, counterparty and otherwise and by using reinsurance, hedging and other arrangements to limit or offset exposures that exceed the limits we wish to retain.
In certain circumstances, or with respect to certain exposures, such risk management arrangements may not be available on acceptable terms or may prove to be ineffective, or our exposure in absolute
terms may be so large that even slightly adverse experience compared to our expectations may have a material adverse effect on our consolidated financial condition or results of operations or result
in additional statutory capital requirements.   

  30            AIG 2011 Form 10-K  

Table of Contents   

CASUALTY INSURANCE RESERVES    

Casualty insurance liabilities are difficult to predict and may exceed the related reserves for losses and loss expenses.       Although we regularly
review the adequacy of the established Liability for unpaid claims and claims adjustment expense and conduct extensive analyses of our reserves during the year, there can be no assurance that our loss
reserves will not develop adversely and have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. Estimation of ultimate net losses, loss expenses and loss reserves is a complex process for
long-tail casualty lines of business, which include but are not limited to general liability, commercial automobile liability, environmental, workers' compensation, excess casualty and
crisis management coverages, insurance and risk management programs for large corporate customers and other customized structured insurance products, as well as excess and umbrella liability, D O and
products liability. A number of analytical reserve development techniques are used to project future loss development. However, there can be no assurance that future loss development patterns will be
the same as in the past. Moreover, any deviation in loss cost trends or in loss development factors might not be discernible for an extended period of time subsequent to the recording of the initial
loss reserve estimates for any accident year. There is the potential for reserves with respect to a number of years to be significantly affected by changes in loss cost trends or loss development
factors that were relied upon in setting the reserves. These changes in loss cost trends or loss development factors could be attributable to changes in inflation or in the judicial environment, or in
other social or economic phenomena affecting claims. For a further discussion of our loss reserves, see Item 7. MD A   Results of Operations   Segment
Results   Chartis Operations   Liability for Unpaid Claims and Claims Adjustment Expense and Critical Accounting Estimates   Liability for
Unpaid Claims and Claims Adjustment Expenses (Chartis and Mortgage Guaranty).   

CATASTROPHE EXPOSURES    

        The occurrence of catastrophic events could adversely affect our consolidated financial condition, results of operations and liquidity.       The
occurrence of events such as hurricanes, windstorms, flooding, earthquakes, pandemic disease, acts of terrorism and other catastrophes has in the past and could in the future adversely affect our
consolidated financial condition, results of operations and liquidity, including by exposing our businesses to the following:   

widespread claim costs associated with property, workers' compensation, business interruption, mortality and morbidity
claims;     
           loss resulting from a decline in the value of invested assets to below the amount required to meet policy and contract
liabilities; and    
           loss resulting from actual policy experience emerging adversely in comparison to the assumptions made in the product
pricing related to frequency, severity, mortality, morbidity, termination and expenses.    

For
a sensitivity analysis of our exposure to certain catastrophes, see Item 7. MD A   Enterprise Risk Management   Business Unit Risk
Management   Insurance Operations   Chartis   Catastrophe Exposures.   

CREDIT AND FINANCIAL STRENGTH RATINGS    

        A downgrade in the Insurer Financial Strength ratings of our insurance companies could prevent the companies from writing new business and retaining customers and
business.       Insurer Financial Strength (IFS) ratings are an important factor in establishing the competitive position of insurance companies. IFS ratings measure an
insurance company's ability to meet its obligations to contract holders and policyholders. High ratings help maintain public confidence in a company's products, facilitate marketing of products and
enhance a company's competitive position.   

      Downgrades
of the IFS ratings of our insurance companies could prevent these companies from offering, or make it more difficult for them to offer products and services or result in
increased policy cancellations or termination of assumed reinsurance contracts. Moreover, a downgrade in AIG Parent's credit ratings could, under credit rating agency policies concerning the
relationship between parent and subsidiary ratings, result in a downgrade of the IFS ratings of our insurance subsidiaries.   

  AIG 2011 Form 10-K            31  

Table of Contents   

        A downgrade in our credit ratings could require us to post additional collateral and result in the termination of derivative transactions.       Adverse
ratings actions regarding our long-term debt ratings by the major rating agencies would require us to post additional collateral payments pursuant to, and/or permit the termination of,
derivative transactions to which AIG is a party, which could adversely affect our business, our consolidated results of operations in a reporting period or our liquidity. Credit ratings estimate a
company's ability to meet its obligations and may directly affect the cost and availability to that company of financing. In the event of further downgrades of two notches to our long-term
senior debt ratings, AIG would be required to post additional collateral of $267 million, and certain of AIG's counterparties would be permitted to elect early termination of contracts.   

For
a further discussion of our liquidity, see Item 7. MD A   Capital Resources and Liquidity.   

COMPETITION    

        We face intense competition in each of our businesses.       Our businesses operate in highly competitive environments, both domestically and overseas.
Principal sources of competition are insurance companies, banks, investment banks and other non-bank financial institutions. We consider our principal competitors to be other large
multi-national insurance organizations.   

      The
insurance industry in particular is highly competitive. Within the U.S., Chartis subsidiaries compete with approximately 3,200 other stock companies, specialty insurance
organizations, mutual insurance companies and other underwriting organizations. SunAmerica subsidiaries compete in the U.S. with approximately 2,000 life insurance companies and other participants in
related financial services fields. Overseas, our subsidiaries compete for business with the foreign insurance operations of large U.S. insurers and with global insurance groups and local companies.   

As
a result of the past reduction of our credit ratings and those of our subsidiaries and the lingering effects of AIG's negative publicity, we have faced and continue to face intense
competition to retain existing customers and to maintain business with existing customers and counterparties at historical levels. General insurance and life insurance companies compete through a
combination of risk acceptance criteria, product pricing, and terms and conditions. Retirement services companies compete through crediting rates and the issuance of guaranteed benefits. A decline in
our position as to any one or more of these factors could adversely affect our profitability.   

ADJUSTMENTS TO DEFERRED POLICY ACQUISITION COSTS AND FUTURE POLICY  BENEFITS    

        Interest rate fluctuations, increased surrenders, investment returns and other events may require our subsidiaries to accelerate the amortization of deferred policy acquisition costs
(DAC), and record additional liabilities for future policy benefits, which could adversely affect our results of operations.       DAC represents the costs that vary
with and are related primarily to the acquisition of new and renewal insurance and annuity contracts.   

      When
interest rates rise or customers lose confidence in a company, policy loans, policy surrenders, withdrawals of life insurance policies, and withdrawals of annuity contracts may
increase as policyholders seek to buy products with perceived higher returns or more stability, resulting in an acceleration of the amortization of DAC. To the extent such amortization exceeds
surrender or other charges earned upon surrender and withdrawals of certain life insurance policies and annuity contracts, our results of operations could be negatively affected.   

      DAC
for insurance-oriented and investment-oriented products, as well as retirement services products, is reviewed for recoverability, which involves estimating the future profitability
of in-force business. This review involves significant management judgment. If future profitability is substantially lower than estimated, we could be required to accelerate DAC
amortization, and such acceleration could adversely affect our results of operations.   

      Periodically,
AIG evaluates the estimates used in establishing liabilities for Future policy benefits for life and A H insurance contracts, which include liabilities for certain payout
annuities. These estimates are evaluated against actual experience and are adjusted based on management's judgment regarding mortality, morbidity, persistency, maintenance expenses, and investment
returns, including the effect of the interest rate environment and net realized capital gains (losses). If observed changes in actual experience or estimates result in projected   

  32            AIG 2011 Form 10-K  

Table of Contents   

future
losses on long duration insurance contracts, AIG may be required to record additional liabilities through a charge to policyholder benefit expense, which could negatively affect our results of
operations.   

      For
further discussion of DAC and Future policy benefits, see Item 7. MD A   Critical Accounting Estimates and Notes 2, 10 and 13 to the Consolidated
Financial Statements.   

GUARANTEES WITHIN VARIABLE ANNUITIES    

        Guarantees Within Certain of Our Products May Decrease Our Earnings and Increase the Volatility of Our Results.       Certain variable annuity products
that we offer guarantee a certain level of benefits to the policyholder. These guarantee features include guaranteed minimum death benefits (GMDB), guaranteed minimum income benefits (GMIB),
guaranteed minimum withdrawal benefits (GMWB) and guaranteed minimum account value benefits (GMAV). At December 31, 2011, our net liabilities associated with these guaranteed benefits,
representing the aggregate amount of the benefits in excess of the related account values, were $1.2 billion. We use reinsurance in combination with derivative instruments to mitigate the
exposure associated with these liabilities, and while we believe that these and other actions have mitigated the risks related to these guaranteed benefits, our exposure is not fully hedged, and we
remain liable in the event that reinsurers or counterparties are unable or unwilling to pay. In addition, downturns in equity markets, increased equity volatility or reduced interest rates could
result in an increase in the valuation of the future policy benefits or policyholder account balances, increasing the liabilities associated with the guaranteed benefits and resulting in a reduction
in our net income and shareholders' equity.   

REINSURANCE    

        Reinsurance may not be available or affordable.       Our subsidiaries are major purchasers of reinsurance and utilize reinsurance as part of our overall
risk management strategy. Reinsurance is an important risk management tool to manage transaction and insurance line risk retention and to mitigate losses that may arise from catastrophes. Market
conditions beyond our control determine the availability and cost of the reinsurance purchased by our subsidiaries. For example, reinsurance may be more difficult or costly to obtain after a year with
a large number of major catastrophes. Accordingly, we may be forced to incur additional expenses for reinsurance or may be unable to obtain sufficient reinsurance on acceptable terms, in which case we
would have to accept an increase in exposure risk, reduce the amount of business written by our subsidiaries or seek alternatives.   

        Reinsurance subjects us to the credit risk of our reinsurers and may not be adequate to protect us against losses.       Although reinsurance makes the
reinsurer liable to our subsidiary to the extent the risk is ceded, it does not relieve our subsidiary of the primary liability to its policyholders. Accordingly, we bear credit risk with respect to
our subsidiaries' reinsurers to the extent the credit risk is not mitigated by collateral or other credit enhancements. A reinsurer's insolvency or inability or refusal to make timely payments under
the terms of its agreements with our subsidiaries could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and liquidity. For additional information on our reinsurance, see Item 7.
MD A   Enterprise Risk Management   Business Unit Risk Management   Reinsurance.   

INDEMNITY OBLIGATIONS    

        Claims under indemnity obligations may be material.       We have provided financial guarantees and indemnities in connection with the businesses we have
sold, including ALICO, AGF, AIG Star and AIG Edison. While we do not currently believe that the claims under these indemnities will be material, it is possible that significant indemnity claims could
be made against us. If such a claim were successful, our results of operations, cash flows and liquidity could be materially adversely affected. See Note 16 to the Consolidated Financial
Statements for more information on these financial guarantees and indemnities.   

REGULATION    

        The enactment of the Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act will subject us to substantial additional federal regulation, which may materially and
adversely affect our businesses, results of operations, cash flows, financial condition and credit ratings.       On July 21, 2010, the Dodd-Frank
Wall Street Reform and Consumer   

  AIG 2011 Form 10-K            33  

Table of Contents   

  Protection
Act (Dodd-Frank), which effects comprehensive changes to the regulation of financial services in the United States, was signed into law. Dodd-Frank directs existing
and newly-created government agencies and bodies to promulgate regulations implementing the law, an ongoing process anticipated to continue over the next few years. We cannot predict with certainty
the requirements of the regulations ultimately adopted or how or whether Dodd-Frank and such regulations will affect our businesses, results of operations, cash flows or financial
condition, require us to raise additional capital or result in a downgrade of our credit ratings.   

      Under
Dodd-Frank, we may become subject to the examination, enforcement and supervisory authority of the FRB as a savings and loan holding company or a SIFI. AIG expects that when the
Department of the Treasury ceases to own at least 50 percent of the outstanding shares of our Common Stock, we would be regulated by the FRB as a savings and loan holding company. In either
event:   

We would become subject to the examination, enforcement and supervisory authority of the FRB. We cannot predict how the
FRB would exercise general supervisory authority over us.     
           The FRB would be required to impose minimum leverage and risk-based capital requirements on us not less than
those applicable to insured depository institutions.     
           We may be required to place our financial activities in an intermediate holding company separate from our
non-financial activities (as defined for purposes of the Bank Holding Company Act) subject to restrictions on transactions between the two businesses, which could be burdensome and costly
to implement.    

If
we are designated as a SIFI:   

We would become subject to stress tests to determine whether, on a consolidated basis, we have the capital necessary to
absorb losses due to adverse economic conditions.     
           We would be subject to stricter prudential standards, including stricter requirements and limitations relating to
risk-based capital, leverage, liquidity and credit exposure, as well as overall risk management requirements, management interlock prohibitions and a requirement to maintain a plan for
rapid and orderly dissolution in the event of severe financial distress.     
           We would become subject to a new early remediation regime process to be administered by the FRB.    

If
we are designated as a SIFI and determined to be a grave threat to U.S. financial stability:   

We would be required to maintain a debt-to-equity ratio of no more than 15:1.    
           The FRB may:    

limit our ability to merge with, acquire, consolidate with, or become affiliated with another company;    
           restrict our ability to offer specified financial products;     
           require us to terminate specified activities;     
           impose conditions on how we conduct our activities; or    
           with approval of the Financial Stability Oversight Council (the Council), and a determination that the foregoing actions
are inadequate to mitigate a threat to U.S. financial stability, require us to sell or otherwise transfer assets or off-balance-sheet items to unaffiliated entities.    

See
Business   Regulation for further discussion of this potential regulation.   

      If
we continue to control AIG Federal Savings Bank or another insured depository institution, we would become subject to the "Volcker Rule", which could place limits on "proprietary
trading" and the sponsorship of, or investment in "covered funds." The term "covered funds" could include hedge, private equity or similar funds and, in certain cases, issuers of asset backed
securities if such securities have equity-like characteristics. These prohibitions could substantially impact our investment portfolios as they are currently managed. The Volcker Rule, as
proposed, contains an exemption for proprietary trading by insurance companies for their general account, but the final extent of this exemption cannot be predicted. Even if we no longer controlled an
insured depository   

  34            AIG 2011 Form 10-K  

Table of Contents   

institution,
we might still be subject to additional capital and quantitative limitations under the Volcker Rule as a SIFI.   

      In
addition, Dodd-Frank establishes a new framework for regulation of over the counter (OTC) derivatives under which we may have to collateralize previously uncollateralized
swaps. These additional obligations to post collateral or the costs of assignment, termination or obtaining alternative credit could have a material adverse effect on us. This new framework may also
increase the cost of conducting a hedging program or have other effects materially adverse to us.   

      We
cannot predict the requirements of the regulations ultimately adopted, the level and magnitude of supervision we may become subject to, or how Dodd-Frank and such
regulations will affect the financial markets generally or our businesses, results of operations, cash flows or financial condition. It is possible that the regulations adopted under
Dodd-Frank could significantly alter our business practices, require us to raise additional capital, impose burdensome and costly requirements and add additional costs. Some of the
regulations may also affect the perceptions of regulators, rating agencies, customers, counterparties, creditors or investors about our financial strength and could potentially affect our financing
costs or result in a ratings downgrade.   

        We are subject to extensive regulation in the jurisdictions in which we conduct our businesses, including with respect to the pricing of policies that we write, and regulatory actions
could make it challenging for us to continue to engage in business in the ordinary course.       Our operations around the world are subject to regulation by different
types of regulatory authorities, including insurance, securities, investment advisory, banking and thrift regulators in the United States and abroad. Regulators have the ability to take various steps
to protect the businesses of the entities they regulate. These steps could include, and in the past have included:   

restricting or prohibiting the payment of dividends to AIG Parent and its subsidiaries;     
           restricting or prohibiting other payments to AIG Parent and its subsidiaries;     
           requesting additional capital contributions from AIG Parent;     
           requesting that intercompany reinsurance reserves be covered by assets locally;     
           restricting the business in which the subsidiaries may engage;     
           requiring pre-approval of all proposed transactions between the regulated subsidiaries and AIG Parent or any
affiliate; and    
           requiring more frequent reporting, including with respect to capital and liquidity positions.    

In
addition, the premium rates that we are able to charge and the profits that we are able to obtain are affected by the actions of state and foreign insurance departments that regulate
our businesses. In addition to this
regulation, our insurance subsidiaries are subject to laws that require insurers to participate in assigned risk plans, or to offer coverage to all consumers or at prices that we might not otherwise
offer. Any of these actions could have an adverse effect on our consolidated results of operations.   

       Requirements of the USA PATRIOT Act, the Office of Foreign Assets Control and similar laws that apply to us may expose us to significant
penalties.       The operations of certain of our subsidiaries are subject to laws and regulations, including the USA PATRIOT Act of 2001, which requires companies to
know certain information about their clients and to monitor their transactions for suspicious activities. In addition, the Department of the Treasury's Office of Foreign Assets Control administers
regulations requiring U.S. persons to refrain from doing business, or allowing their clients to do business through them, with certain organizations or individuals on a prohibited list maintained by
the U.S. government or with certain countries. The United Kingdom, the European Union and other jurisdictions maintain similar laws and regulations. Although we have instituted compliance programs to
address these requirements, there are inherent risks in global transactions.   

        Attempts to mitigate the impact of Regulation XXX and Actuarial Guideline AXXX may fail in whole or in part resulting in an adverse effect on our financial condition and results
of operations.       The Model Regulation entitled "Valuation of Life Insurance Policies", commonly known as "Regulation XXX", requires insurers to establish
additional statutory reserves for term life insurance policies with long-term premium guarantees and universal life   

  AIG 2011 Form 10-K            35  

Table of Contents   

policies
with secondary guarantees. In addition, Actuarial Guideline 38, more commonly known as "Guideline AXXX", clarifies the application of Regulation XXX with respect to certain
universal life insurance policies with secondary guarantees. The application of both Regulation XXX and Guideline AXXX involves numerous interpretations. At times, there may be differences of
opinion between management and state insurance departments regarding the application of these and other actuarial standards. Such differences of opinion may lead to a state insurance regulator
requiring greater reserves to support insurance liabilities than management estimated.   

      We
also have implemented reinsurance and capital management actions to mitigate the capital impact of Regulation XXX and Guideline AXXX, including the use of letters of credit to
support the reinsurance provided by our captive reinsurance subsidiaries. We focus on identifying cost-effective opportunities to manage our intercompany reinsurance transactions,
particularly with respect to certain redundant statutory reserve requirements on term insurance and universal life with secondary guarantees (Regulation XXX and Guideline AXXX reserves). For
this purpose, we had a $585 million syndicated letter of credit facility and $215 million of letters of credit on a bilateral basis outstanding at December 31, 2011, all of which
relate to intercompany life reinsurance transactions. All of these letters of credit are due to mature on December 31, 2015. However, such actions may not be sufficient to offset regulatory,
rating agency or other requirements. In that case, we could be required to increase statutory reserves or incur higher operating and/or tax costs.   

      We
also cannot provide assurance that we will be able to continue to implement actions to mitigate the impact of Regulation XXX or Guideline AXXX on future sales of term and
universal life insurance products. If we are unable to continue to implement those actions, we may incur higher operating costs and lower returns on products sold than we currently anticipate or
reduce our sales of these products.   

        New regulations promulgated from time to time may affect our operations, financial condition and ability to compete effectively.       Legislators and
regulators may periodically consider and put forward various proposals that may affect the profitability of certain of our businesses or even our ability to conduct certain businesses at all,
including proposals relating to restrictions on the type of activities in which financial institutions are permitted to engage and the size of financial institutions, and proposals to impose
additional taxes on a limited subset of financial institutions and insurance companies (either based on size, activities, geography, government support or other criteria). It is uncertain whether and
how these and other such proposals would apply to us or our competitors or how they could impact our consolidated results of operations, financial condition and ability to compete effectively.   

CHANGE IN CONTROL    

       Our ability to utilize tax losses and credits carryforwards to offset future taxable income may be significantly limited if we experience an "ownership change" under the Internal Revenue
Code.       As of December 31, 2011, we had a U.S. federal net operating loss carryforward of approximately $45.3 billion, $21.3 billion in capital
loss carryforwards and $4.6 billion in foreign tax credits (Tax Losses and credits carryforwards). Our ability to utilize such tax attributes to offset future taxable income may be
significantly limited if we experience an "ownership change" as defined in Section 382 of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended (the Code). In general, an ownership change will occur
when the percentage of AIG Parent's ownership (by value) of one or more "5-percent shareholders" (as defined in the Code) has increased by more than 50 percent over the lowest
percentage owned by such shareholders at any time during the prior three years (calculated on a rolling basis). An entity that experiences an ownership change generally will be subject to an annual
limitation on its pre-ownership change tax losses and credits carryforwards equal to the equity value of the corporation immediately before the ownership change, multiplied by the
long-term, tax-exempt rate posted monthly by the IRS (subject to certain adjustments). The annual limitation would be increased each year to the extent that there is an unused
limitation in a prior year. The limitation on our ability to utilize tax losses and credits carryforwards arising from an ownership change under Section 382 would depend on the value of our
equity at the time of any ownership change.   

      While
the Department of the Treasury owns more than 50 percent of AIG Common Stock, under guidance issued by the Internal Revenue Service, we will not be treated as having
experienced an ownership change. However, once the Department of the Treasury's ownership of outstanding AIG Common Stock falls below   

  36            AIG 2011 Form 10-K  

Table of Contents   

50 percent,
it is possible for us to experience an ownership change as a result of purchases of AIG Common Stock by "5-percent shareholders". For the purpose of determining whether
there has been an "ownership change", the change in ownership as a result of purchases by "5-percent shareholders" will be aggregated with certain changes in ownership that occurred over
the three-year period ending on the date of such purchases, including, for example, the sale of AIG Common Stock that was issued in exchange for the shares of AIG's Series C
Perpetual, Convertible, Participating Preferred Stock, par value $5.00 per share (the Series C Preferred Stock), but excluding the issuance of the AIG Common Stock that was issued in exchange
for the shares of AIG's Series E Fixed Rate Non-Cumulative Perpetual Preferred Stock, par value $5.00 per share (the Series E Preferred Stock), and the shares of AIG's
Series F Fixed Rate Non-Cumulative Perpetual Preferred Stock, par value $5.00 per share (the Series F Preferred Stock), both of which were issued under the Emergency Economic
Stabilization Act of 2008 and to which Notice 2010-2 applies. Any repurchases of AIG Common Stock by AIG will be taken into account in determining whether there has been an "ownership
change". If we were to experience an "ownership change", it is possible that a significant portion of our tax losses and credits carryforwards could expire before we would be able to use them to
offset future taxable income.   

      On
March 9, 2011, AIG's Board of Directors adopted a Tax Asset Protection Plan (the Plan) to help protect our ability to recognize tax benefits from certain tax attributes in
order to reduce our potential future income tax liability. At our 2011 Annual Meeting of Shareholders, shareholders ratified the Plan and also adopted a protective amendment (the Protective Amendment)
to our Restated Certificate of Incorporation, which is designed to prevent certain transfers of AIG Common Stock that could result in an "ownership change". The Plan is designed to reduce the
likelihood that AIG will experience an "ownership change" by (i) discouraging any person or group from becoming a 4.99 percent shareholder and (ii) discouraging any existing
4.99 percent shareholder from acquiring additional shares of AIG Common Stock. The Protective Amendment generally restricts any transfer of AIG Common Stock if the effect would be to
(i) increase the ownership by any person to 4.99 percent or more of AIG stock then outstanding (Five Percent Stockholder) or (ii) increase the percentage of AIG stock owned by a
Five Percent Stockholder. While the Plan and the Protective Amendment are intended to deter and prevent acquisitions of AIG Common Stock that may result in an "ownership change", such acquisitions may
still occur. In addition, the Plan and the Protective Amendment may make it more difficult and more expensive to acquire us, and may discourage open market purchases of AIG Common Stock or a
non-negotiated tender or exchange offer for AIG Common Stock. Accordingly, the Plan and the Protective Amendment may limit a shareholder's ability to realize a premium over the market
price of AIG Common Stock in connection with any stock transaction.   

FOREIGN OPERATIONS    

        Our foreign operations expose us to risks that may affect our operations, liquidity and financial condition.       We provide insurance, investment and
other financial products and services to both businesses and individuals in more than 130 countries. A substantial portion of our Chartis business is conducted outside the United States, and our
intention is to continue to grow this business. Operations outside the United States, particularly those in developing nations, may be affected by regional economic downturns, changes in foreign
currency exchange rates, political upheaval, nationalization and other restrictive government actions, which could also affect our other operations.   

      The
degree of regulation and supervision in foreign jurisdictions varies. Generally, AIG Parent, as well as its subsidiaries operating in such jurisdictions, must satisfy local
regulatory requirements. Licenses issued by foreign authorities to our subsidiaries are subject to modification and revocation. Thus, our insurance subsidiaries could be prevented from conducting
future business in certain of the jurisdictions where they currently operate. Adverse actions from any single country could adversely affect our results of operations, liquidity and financial
condition depending on the magnitude of the event and our financial exposure at that time in that country.   

LEGAL PROCEEDINGS    

        Significant legal proceedings may adversely affect our results of operations or financial condition.       We are party to numerous legal proceedings,
including securities class actions and regulatory and governmental investigations. Due   

  AIG 2011 Form 10-K            37  

Table of Contents   

  to
the nature of the litigation, the lack of precise damage claims and the type of claims we are subject to, we cannot currently quantify our ultimate or maximum liability for these actions. It is
possible that developments in these unresolved matters could have a material adverse effect on our consolidated financial condition or consolidated results of operations for an individual reporting
period. For a discussion of these unresolved matters, see Note 16(a) to the Consolidated Financial Statements.   

USE OF ESTIMATES    

        If actual experience differs from management's estimates used in the preparation of financial statements, our consolidated results of operations or financial condition could be adversely
affected.       The preparation of financial statements in conformity with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States requires the application of
accounting policies that often involve a significant degree of judgment. We consider our accounting policies that are most dependent on the application of estimates and assumptions, and therefore
viewed as critical accounting estimates, are those described in Item 7. MD A   Critical Accounting Estimates. These accounting estimates require the use of assumptions, some
of which are highly uncertain at the time of estimation. These estimates, by their nature, are based on judgment and current facts and circumstances. Therefore, actual results could differ from these
estimates, possibly in the near term, and could have a material effect on the consolidated financial statements.   

AIRCRAFT LEASING BUSINESS    

        Our aircraft leasing business depends on lease revenues and exposes us to the risk of lessee non-performance.       Our aircraft leasing
business depends on the ability of our customers to meet their obligations to us under their leases; if their ability materially decreases, it may negatively affect our business, results of operations
and cash flows.   

       Our aircraft may become obsolete over time.       Aircraft are long-lived assets requiring long lead times to develop and manufacture. As a
result, aircraft of a particular model and type may become obsolete and less in demand over time, when newer, more advanced and efficient aircraft or aircraft engines are manufactured. This life
cycle, however, can be shortened by world events, government regulation or customer preferences. As aircraft in our fleet approach obsolescence, demand for particular models and types may decrease.
This may result in
declining lease rates, losses on sales, impairment charges or fair value adjustments and may adversely affect our business, consolidated financial condition, results of operations and cash flows.   

The residual value of our aircraft is subject to a number of risks and uncertainties.       Technological developments, macro-economic conditions,
availability and cost of funding for aviation, and the overall health of the airline industry impact the residual values of our aircraft. If challenging economic conditions persist for extended
periods, the residual values of our aircraft could be negatively impacted, which could result in future impairments.   

LIQUIDITY    

       If our internal sources of liquidity are insufficient to meet our needs, we may become dependent on third-party financing, external capital markets or other sources of liquidity, which
may not be available or could be prohibitively expensive.       We need liquidity to pay our operating expenses, interest on our debt, maturing debt obligations and to
meet any statutory capital requirements of our subsidiaries. If we have insufficient liquidity to meet our needs, we may be required to raise additional capital or obtain other sources of commercial
funding. The availability of any additional financing depends on a variety of factors, including, but not limited to, general market conditions, the volume of trading activities, the overall
availability of credit, regulatory actions, our credit ratings and credit capacity, as well as the possibility that customers, lenders or investors could develop a negative perception of our
long- or short-term financial prospects. Disruptions, volatility and uncertainty in the financial markets, to the extent they persist or recur, may also limit our ability to
access external capital markets at times and on terms favorable to us and to meet our capital and liquidity needs. Furthermore, if our internal sources of liquidity prove to be insufficient, we may be
unable to obtain additional financing on favorable terms, if at all. For a further discussion of liquidity, see Item 7. MD A   Capital Resources and Liquidity.   

38            AIG 2011 Form 10-K  

Table of Contents   

        AIG Parent's ability to access funds from our subsidiaries is limited.       As a holding company, AIG Parent depends on dividends, distributions and other
payments from our subsidiaries to fund payments due on its obligations, including its outstanding debt. Further, the majority of its investments are held by our regulated subsidiaries. Our
subsidiaries may be limited in their ability to make dividend payments or advance funds to AIG Parent in the future because of the need to support their own capital levels.   

        AIG Parent's ability to support our subsidiaries is limited.       Historically, AIG Parent has provided capital and liquidity to our subsidiaries to
maintain regulatory capital ratios, comply with rating agency requirements and meet unexpected cash flow obligations, in some cases under support or capital maintenance agreements. If AIG Parent is
unable to provide support to a subsidiary having an immediate capital or liquidity need, the subsidiary could become insolvent or, in the case of an insurance subsidiary or other regulated entity,
could be seized by its regulator. In the event of a catastrophe, reserve strengthening or other event, AIG Parent may be required to provide capital to one or more of our regulated subsidiaries. AIG
Parent has entered into capital maintenance agreements with certain of our U.S. insurance subsidiaries that will require it to contribute capital if specific risk-based capital (RBC)
thresholds are triggered.   

        Certain of the investments held by our subsidiaries are illiquid and/or are difficult to sell, or to sell in significant amounts or at acceptable prices, to generate cash to meet their
needs.       Our subsidiaries' investments in certain securities, including certain fixed income securities and certain structured securities, private equity securities,
private equity funds and hedge funds, mortgage loans, flight equipment, finance receivables and real estate, which had a collective fair value of $96 billion at December 31, 2011, are
illiquid or may not be disposed of quickly. Further, we have a significant remaining stake in AIA, one-half of which is subject to restrictions on transfer and hedging. In addition, the
steep decline in the U.S. real estate markets and tight credit markets have materially adversely affected the liquidity of our other securities portfolios, including our residential and commercial
mortgage-related securities and investment portfolios. In the event additional liquidity is required by one or more of our subsidiaries and AIG Parent is unable to provide liquidity, it may be
difficult to generate additional liquidity by selling, pledging or otherwise monetizing the less liquid investments described above.   

SPECIAL PURPOSE VEHICLE INTERCOMPANY LOANS AND PLEDGE OF DESIGNATED  ENTITY    

        We have pledged equity interests in certain of our businesses and other assets to secure intercompany loans made in connection with the Recapitalization and granted other control rights
with respect to certain businesses and assets.       We have pledged equity interests in certain of our businesses and other assets as security for the repayment of the
intercompany loans extended to AIG Parent by the special purpose vehicles that held the proceeds of the AIA initial public offering and the ALICO sale (the SPVs, and such loans, the SPV Intercompany
Loans). Although the loan from the ALICO SPV was repaid in full in 2011, the loan from the AIA SPV, which remains outstanding,
is secured by the assets that continue to be held by the AIA SPV, including the ordinary shares of AIA and our equity interest in ILFC (the Designated Entity). If we are unable to satisfy our
obligations under the AIA SPV Intercompany Loan, the secured parties may have the right to foreclose upon and sell the assets that secure this loan, which could have a material adverse effect on the
operations of the Designated Entity and could adversely affect the value of the Designated Entity.   

      Furthermore,
so long as the Department of the Treasury holds the preferred interests in the AIA SPV (the AIA SPV Preferred Interests), the Department of the Treasury will have the right,
subject to existing contractual restrictions, to require us to dispose of the remaining AIA ordinary shares held by the AIA SPV to the extent necessary to fully repay the liquidation preference on the
Department of the Treasury's AIA SPV Preferred Interests. In addition, the consent of the Department of the Treasury, so long as it holds AIA SPV Preferred Interests or the preferred interests in the
ALICO SPV (together, the SPV Preferred Interests), will also be required for us to take specified significant actions with respect to the Designated Entity, including initial public offerings, sales
of the business and significant acquisitions or dispositions and incurrence of indebtedness above specified levels. If any SPV Preferred Interests are outstanding on May 1, 2013, the Department
of the Treasury will have the right to compel the sale of all or a portion of the Designated Entity on terms that it will determine.   

  AIG 2011 Form 10-K            39  

Table of Contents   

These
rights could have a material adverse effect on the operations of the Designated Entity and could adversely affect the value of the Designated Entity.   

CONTROLLING SHAREHOLDER    

        As a result of the issuance of the shares of AIG Common Stock to the Department of the Treasury in connection with the Recapitalization, the Department of the Treasury is AIG Parent's
controlling shareholder.       As of January 31, 2012, the Department of the Treasury owns approximately 77 percent of the outstanding shares of AIG Common
Stock. The Department of the Treasury is able, to the extent permitted by law, to control a vote of AIG shareholders on substantially all matters, including:   

approval of mergers or other business combinations;     
           a sale of all or substantially all of our assets;     
           amendments to AIG Parent's restated certificate of incorporation; and    
           other matters that might be favorable to the Department of the Treasury, but not to our other shareholders.    

Moreover,
the Department of the Treasury's ability to cause or prevent a change in control of AIG could also have an adverse effect on the market price of AIG Common Stock. The
Department of the Treasury may also, subject to applicable securities laws, transfer all, or a portion of, the AIG Common Stock to another person or entity and, in the event of such a transfer, that
person or entity could become our controlling shareholder. The Department of the Treasury's rights under a registration rights agreement executed in connection with the Recapitalization may be
assigned to any person purchasing over $500 million of AIG Common Stock.   

        We granted the Department of the Treasury certain registration rights and, subject to certain exceptions, the ability to control the terms, conditions and pricing of any offering in
which it participates, including any primary offering by us.       We have granted the Department of the Treasury registration rights with respect to the shares of AIG
Common Stock issued in connection with the Recapitalization, including:   

the right to participate in any registered offering of AIG Common Stock by us;     
           the right to demand no more than twice in any 12-month period that we effect a registered marketed offering of
our shares;     
           the right to engage in at-the-market offerings; and    
           subject to certain exceptions, the right to approve the terms, conditions and pricing of any registered offering in which
it participates until its ownership falls below 33 percent of our voting securities.    

Possible future sales of AIG Common Stock by the Department of the Treasury could adversely affect the market for AIG Common Stock.       We have granted
the Department of the Treasury the registration rights described above. Although we can make no prediction as to the effect, if any, that sales by the Department of the Treasury would have on the
market price of AIG Common Stock, sales of substantial amounts of AIG Common Stock, or the perception that such sales could occur, could adversely affect the market price of AIG Common Stock.   

EMPLOYEES    

        Mr. Benmosche may be unable to continue to provide services to AIG due to his health.       Mr. Robert Benmosche, the President and Chief
Executive Officer of AIG, was diagnosed with cancer and has been undergoing treatment for his disease. He continues to fulfill all of his responsibilities and has stated his desire to continue in such
roles beyond 2012. However, there can be no assurance that his condition will not change and prevent him from continuing to perform these roles.   

        The limitations on incentive compensation contained in the American Recovery and Reinvestment Act of 2009 and the restrictions placed on compensation by the Special Master for TARP
Executive Compensation and in our agreement with the Department of the Treasury may adversely affect our ability to attract talent and retain and motivate our highest performing
employees.       The American Recovery and Reinvestment Act of 2009 contains provisions which,   

  40            AIG 2011 Form 10-K  

Table of Contents   

as
implemented by the Department of the Treasury in its Interim Final Rule, restrict bonus and other incentive compensation payable to certain AIG employees. Historically, we have embraced a
pay-for-performance philosophy. Based on the limitations placed on incentive compensation, it is unclear whether, for the foreseeable future, we will be able to create a
compensation structure that permits us to attract talent and retain and motivate our most senior and most highly compensated employees
and other high performing employees who become subject to such limitations. The restrictions on our ability to attract talent and retain and motivate our highest performing employees may affect our
ability to strengthen our businesses and prepare and make required filings in a timely manner with the SEC and other federal, state and foreign regulators.   

        Employee error and misconduct may be difficult to detect and prevent and may result in significant losses.       Losses may result from, among other
things, fraud, illegal acts, errors, failure to document transactions properly or to obtain proper internal authorization or failure to comply with regulatory requirements or our internal policies.
There have been a number of highly publicized cases involving fraud or other misconduct by employees in the financial services industry in recent years, and we run the risk that employee misconduct
could occur. It is not always possible to deter or prevent employee misconduct, and the controls that we have in place to prevent and detect this activity may not be effective in all cases.   

ELECTRONIC DATA SYSTEMS AND HANDLING OF CONFIDENTIAL INFORMATION    

        If we are unable to maintain the availability of our electronic data systems and safeguard the security of our data, our ability to conduct business may be compromised, which could
adversely affect our consolidated financial condition or results of operations.       We use computer systems to store, retrieve, evaluate and utilize customer,
employee, and company data and information. Some of these systems in turn, rely upon third-party systems. Our business is highly dependent on our ability to access these systems to perform necessary
business functions, including providing insurance quotes, processing premium payments, making changes to existing policies, filing and paying claims, administering variable annuity products and mutual
funds, providing customer support and managing our investment portfolios. Systems failures or outages could compromise our ability to perform these functions in a timely manner, which could harm our
ability to conduct business and hurt our relationships with our business partners and customers. In the event of a natural disaster, a computer virus, a terrorist attack or other disruption inside or
outside the U.S., our systems may be inaccessible to our employees, customers or business partners for an extended period of time, and our employees may be unable to perform their duties for an
extended period of time if our data or systems are disabled or destroyed. Our systems could also be subject to unauthorized access, such as physical or electronic break-ins or unauthorized
tampering. AIG maintains cyber risk insurance, but this insurance may not cover all costs associated with the consequences of personal, confidential or proprietary information being compromised. In
some cases, such unauthorized access may not be immediately detected. This may impede or interrupt our business operations and could adversely affect our consolidated financial condition or results of
operations.   

      In
addition, we routinely transmit, receive and store personal, confidential and proprietary information by email and other electronic means. Although we attempt to keep such information
confidential, we may be unable to do so in all events, especially with clients, vendors, service providers, counterparties and other third parties who may not have or use appropriate controls to
protect confidential information. Furthermore, certain of our businesses are subject to compliance with laws and regulations enacted by U.S. federal and state governments, the European Union or other
jurisdictions or enacted by various regulatory organizations or exchanges relating to the privacy and security of the information of clients, employees or others. The compromise of personal,
confidential or proprietary information could result in remediation costs, legal liability, regulatory action and reputational harm.   

REGULATORY CAPITAL CREDIT DEFAULT SWAP PORTFOLIO    

        A deterioration in the credit markets may cause us to recognize unrealized market valuation losses which could have an adverse effect on our consolidated financial condition,
consolidated results of operations or liquidity. Moreover, depending on how and when the Basel I capital standards are phased out, the period of time that AIGFP remains at risk for such deterioration
could be longer than anticipated by AIGFP.       A total of $6.4 billion in net notional amount   

  AIG 2011 Form 10-K            41  

Table of Contents   

  of
the super senior credit default swap (CDS) portfolio of AIGFP as of December 31, 2011, represented derivatives written for financial institutions, principally in Europe against European
corporate loans and residential mortgage loans, primarily for the purpose of providing regulatory capital relief rather than for arbitrage purposes. These portfolios have no direct exposure to any
obligors in the five countries of the Euro-zone periphery (Spain, Italy, Ireland, Greece and Portugal). The regulatory benefit of these transactions for AIGFP's financial institution
counterparties was generally derived from the capital regulations promulgated by the Basel Committee on Banking Supervision known as Basel I. In December 2010, the Basel Committee on Banking
Supervision finalized a new framework for international capital and liquidity standards known as Basel III, which, when fully implemented, may reduce or eliminate the regulatory benefits to certain
counterparties from these transactions and thus may impact the period of time that such counterparties are expected to hold the positions. AIGFP continues to reassess the expected maturity of this
portfolio. As of December 31, 2011, AIGFP estimated that the weighted average expected maturity of the portfolio was 0.86 years.   

Given
the current performance of the underlying portfolios, the level of subordination of credit protection written by AIGFP and AIGFP's own assessment of the credit quality of the
underlying portfolios, as well as the risk mitigants inherent in the transaction structures, AIGFP, after taking into consideration weakening economic conditions in Europe, does not expect that it
will be required to make payments pursuant to the contractual terms of those transactions providing regulatory capital relief. AIGFP will continue to assess the valuation of this portfolio and monitor
developments in the marketplace. Depending on how and when the Basel I regulatory requirements are phased out, we could also remain at risk for a longer period of time than currently anticipated.   

LONG-TERM ASPIRATIONAL GOALS    

        AIG's ability to achieve its long-term aspirational goals with respect to return on equity (ROE) and earnings per share (EPS) and other long-term aspirational
goals are based on significant assumptions, and AIG's actual results may differ, possibly materially and adversely, from these goals.       In setting its
long-term aspirational goals for ROE and EPS, described in Item 2. MD A   Long-Term Aspirational Goals in its Quarterly Report on
Form 10-Q for the quarterly period ended March 31, 2011, AIG made significant assumptions that include, among other things, the general conditions of markets in which it
operates, revenues and combined ratios of its subsidiaries, investment yields, subsidiaries' capacity to distribute dividends to AIG Parent, AIG's ability to apply deployable capital to share
repurchases, dividend payments, acquisitions or organic growth, AIG's ability to maintain financial leverage commensurate with its current credit ratings, the exclusion of the impact on shareholders'
equity of the reversal of the tax valuation allowance, the effectiveness of AIG's cost rationalization measures, the approval of planned actions (including with respect to any share repurchases,
dividend payments or acquisitions) by AIG's regulators, the overall credit rating implications of AIG's proposed strategic actions and general financial market and interest rate conditions. These
assumptions are not historical facts but instead represent only AIG's expectations regarding future events, many of which, by their nature, are inherently subject to significant uncertainties and
contingencies and are outside AIG's control. It is very likely that one or more of the assumptions will not be met or that actual results will deviate materially from what is assumed. While AIG
remains committed to its long-term aspirational goals, AIG's actual results are likely to differ from these aspirational goals and the difference may be material and adverse.   

      The
aspirational goals and their underlying assumptions are forward-looking statements. AIG strongly cautions its shareholders and other investors not to place undue reliance on any of
these assumptions or aspirational goals. AIG is not under any obligation (and expressly disclaims any obligation) to update or alter any assumptions, goals, projections or other related statements,
whether written or oral, that may be made from time to time, whether as a result of new information, future events or otherwise. See Item 7. MD A   Cautionary Statement
Regarding Forward Looking Information for additional information regarding the forward-looking statements.   

  42            AIG 2011 Form 10-K  

Table of Contents   

ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS            

      There are no material unresolved written comments that were received from the SEC staff 180 days or more before the end of AIG's fiscal
year relating to AIG's periodic or current reports under the Exchange Act.   

ITEM 2. PROPERTIES            

      AIG and its subsidiaries operate from over 400 offices in the United States and approximately 700 offices in over 75 foreign countries. The
following offices are located in buildings owned by AIG and its subsidiaries:   

Greensboro and Winston-Salem, North Carolina  
     
  Nashville, Tennessee  

Amarillo, Ft. Worth and Houston, Texas  
     
  Stevens Point, Wisconsin  

San Juan, Puerto Rico  
     
  175 Water Street in New York, New York  

Livingston, New Jersey 
Wilmington, Delaware  
     
  Stowe, Vermont  

In addition, offices in approximately 20 foreign countries and jurisdictions including Argentina, Bermuda, Colombia, Ecuador, Japan, Mexico, the
U.K., Thailand, and Venezuela are located in buildings owned by AIG and its subsidiaries. The remainder of the office space utilized by AIG and its subsidiaries is leased. AIG believes that its leases
and properties are sufficient for its current purposes.   

ITEM 3. LEGAL PROCEEDINGS            

      For a discussion of legal proceedings, see Note 16(a) to the Consolidated Financial Statements, which is incorporated herein by reference.   

ITEM 4. MINE SAFETY DISCLOSURES            

      Not applicable.   

  AIG 2011 Form 10-K            43  

Table of Contents    

Part II          

ITEM 5. MARKET FOR REGISTRANT'S COMMON EQUITY, RELATED STOCKHOLDER MATTERS AND ISSUER PURCHASES OF EQUITY  SECURITIES            

      AIG's common stock, par value $2.50 per share (AIG Common Stock), is listed on the New York Stock Exchange, as well as on the Tokyo Stock
Exchange. The approximate number of record holders of AIG Common Stock as of January 31, 2012 was 44,938.   

   The following table presents the high and low closing sale prices on the New York Stock Exchange Composite Tape and the dividends paid per share of AIG Common Stock for each
quarter of 2011 and 2010.   

*       Includes the effect of the AIG Common Stock trading with due bills for the dividend paid in the form of warrants.    

Pursuant to the terms of the AIG Series G Cumulative Mandatory Convertible Preferred Stock, par value $5.00 per share (the Series G
Preferred Stock) AIG was unable to pay dividends while the Series G Preferred Stock was outstanding. The Series G Preferred Stock was cancelled in connection with AIG's public offering
of AIG Common Stock in May 2011. After the cancellation of the Series G Preferred Stock, there are no contractual restrictions on AIG's ability to pay dividends.   

      Any
payment of dividends will need the approval of AIG's Board of Directors, in its discretion, from funds legally available therefor. AIG's Board of Directors may consider AIG's
financial position, the performance of its businesses, its consolidated financial condition, results of operations and liquidity, available capital, the existence of investment opportunities and other
factors in determining the payment of dividends, if any. AIG may become subject to restrictions on the payment of dividends if it is designated as a non-bank SIFI or considered a savings
and loan holding company. See Item 1. Business   Regulation for further discussion of this potential regulation.   

      In
addition, AIG was previously unable to pay dividends under the terms of other series of AIG preferred stock that were outstanding from November 2008 through January 14, 2011.   

      For
a discussion of certain restrictions on the payment of dividends to AIG by some of its insurance subsidiaries, see Item 1A. Risk Factors  
Liquidity   AIG Parent's ability to access funds from our subsidiaries is limited, and Note 17 to the Consolidated Financial Statements.   

REPURCHASES OF EQUITY SECURITIES    

      In November 2011, AIG's Board of Directors authorized the repurchase of shares of AIG Common Stock with an aggregate purchase amount of up to
$1 billion from time to time in the open market, through derivative or automatic purchase contracts or otherwise. The timing of such purchases will depend on market conditions, AIG's financial
condition, results of operations, liquidity, rating agency considerations and other factors. This authorization replaces all prior AIG Common Stock repurchase authorizations.   

  44            AIG 2011 Form 10-K  

Table of Contents   

   The following table summarizes AIG's stock repurchases as part of its publicly announced share repurchase program for the three-month period ended December 31,
2011:   

EQUITY COMPENSATION PLANS    

      AIG's table of equity compensation plans previously approved by security holders and equity compensation plans not previously approved by security
holders will be included in the definitive proxy statement for AIG's 2012 Annual Meeting of Shareholders, which will be filed with the SEC no later than 120 days after the close of AIG's fiscal
year pursuant to Regulation 14A.   

PERFORMANCE GRAPH    

      The following Performance Graph compares the cumulative total shareholder return on AIG Common Stock for a five-year period
(December 31, 2006 to December 31, 2011) with the cumulative total return of the S P's 500 stock index (which includes AIG) and a peer group of companies (the New Peer Group) consisting
of ten insurance companies to which AIG compares its business and operations:   

ACE Limited  
     
                 MetLife, Inc.  

Allianz Group  
     
                 Prudential Financial, Inc.  

The Chubb Corporation  
     
                 The Travelers Companies, Inc.  

Hartford Financial Services Group,
 Inc.  
     
                 XL Capital Ltd., and  

Lincoln National Corporation  
     
                 Zurich Financial Services Group  

The Performance Graph also compares the cumulative total shareholder return on AIG Common Stock to the return of a group of companies (the Old
Peer Group) consisting of nine insurance companies to which AIG compared itself in its Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2010:   

ACE Limited  
     
                 MetLife, Inc.  

Aflac Incorporated  
     
                 Prudential Financial, Inc.  

The Chubb Corporation  
     
                 The Travelers Companies, Inc., and  

Hartford Financial Services Group,
 Inc.  
     
                 XL Capital Ltd.  

Lincoln National Corporation  

Allianz Group and Zurich Financial Services Group were added to, and Aflac Incorporated was excluded from, the New Peer Group because AIG believes
the changes result in a peer group that is more comparable to AIG's overall business and operations following AIG's sale of its foreign life insurance operations (i.e., American Life Insurance
Company, Nan Shan Life Insurance Company, Ltd., AIG Star Life Insurance Co., Ltd. and AIG Edison Life Insurance Company) in 2010 and 2011 and the sale of a majority of AIA Group
Limited in 2010.   

  AIG 2011 Form 10-K            45  

Table of Contents   

    FIVE-YEAR CUMULATIVE TOTAL SHAREHOLDER RETURNS 
Value of $100 Invested on December 31, 2006     

46            AIG 2011 Form 10-K  

Table of Contents    

ITEM 6. SELECTED FINANCIAL DATA            

The Selected Consolidated Financial Data should be read in conjunction with Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations and the
Consolidated Financial Statements and accompanying notes included elsewhere herein.   

AIG 2011 Form 10-K            47  

Table of Contents   

      Items affecting comparability between periods include:   

AIG was significantly and adversely affected by the market turmoil in late 2008 and early 2009 and recognized
other-than-temporary impairment charges in 2008 primarily related to collateralized mortgage-backed securities, other structured securities and securities of financial
institutions; losses related to the change in AIG's intent and ability to hold to recovery certain securities; and losses related to AIG's securities lending program.     
           In 2008, AIG also recognized unrealized market valuation losses representing the change in fair value of its super senior
credit default swap portfolio, established a deferred tax valuation allowance and experienced an unprecedented strain on liquidity. This strain led to several transactions and relationships with the
Federal Reserve Bank of New York (FRBNY) and the Department of the Treasury. See Note 1 to the Consolidated Financial Statements for further discussion of these transactions and relationships.    
           The decline in interest expense in 2010 was primarily due to a reduced weighted average interest rate on borrowings, a
lower average outstanding balance and a decline in amortization of the prepaid commitment fee asset related to the partial repayment of the credit facility provided by the FRBNY. On January 14,
2011, AIG repaid the remaining $20.7 billion and terminated this facility, resulting in a net $3.3 billion pre-tax charge in the first quarter of 2011, primarily representing
the accelerated amortization of the remaining prepaid commitment fee asset included in Net loss on extinguishment of debt. See Note 1 to the Consolidated Financial Statements for further
discussion of the Recapitalization.     
           AIG executed multiple asset dispositions in 2011 and 2010, as further discussed in Note 4 to the Consolidated
Financial Statements, which included the completion of an initial public offering of AIA in 2010 for which AIG recognized a $16.3 billion gain.     
           As further discussed in Note 22 to the Consolidated Financial Statements, AIG concluded that $16.6 billion
of the deferred tax asset valuation allowance for the U.S. consolidated income tax group should be released through the Consolidated Statement of Operations in 2011.     
           As a result of the closing of the Recapitalization on January 14, 2011, the SPV Preferred Interests held by the
Department of the Treasury are not considered permanent equity on AIG's Consolidated Balance Sheet, and were classified as redeemable non-controlling interests.    

48            AIG 2011 Form 10-K  

Table of Contents    

ITEM 7. MANAGEMENT'S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS            

CAUTIONARY STATEMENT REGARDING FORWARD-LOOKING  INFORMATION    

      This Annual Report on Form 10-K and other publicly available documents may include, and AIG's officers and representatives may
from time to time make, projections, goals, assumptions and statements that may constitute "forward-looking statements" within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995.
These projections, goals, assumptions and statements are not historical facts but instead represent only AIG's belief regarding future events, many of which, by their nature, are inherently uncertain
and outside AIG's control. These projections, goals, assumptions and statements include statements preceded by, followed by or including words such as "believe", "anticipate", "expect", "intend",
"plan", "view", "target" or "estimate". These projections, goals, assumptions and statements may address, among other things:   

the timing of the disposition of the ownership position of the United States Department of the Treasury (Department of the
Treasury) in AIG;     
           the timing and method of repayment of the preferred interests in AIA Aurora LLC held by the Department of the
Treasury;     
           the fair value of AIA and cash flow projections for AIG's Maiden Lane Interests;     
           the monetization of AIG's interests in International Lease Finance Corporation (ILFC);     
           AIG's exposures to subprime mortgages, monoline insurers, the residential and commercial real estate markets, state and
municipal bond issuers and sovereign bond issuers;     
           AIG's exposure to European governments and European financial institutions;     
           AIG's strategy for risk management;     
           AIG's ability to retain and motivate its employees;     
           AIG's generation of deployable capital;     
           AIG's return on equity and earnings per share long-term aspirational goals;     
           AIG's strategy to grow net investment income, efficiently manage capital and reduce expenses;     
           AIG's strategy for customer retention, growth, product development, market position, financial results and reserves; and    
           The revenues and combined ratios of AIG's subsidiaries.    

It
is possible that AIG's actual results and financial condition will differ, possibly materially, from the results and financial condition indicated in these projections, goals,
assumptions and statements. Factors that could cause AIG's actual results to differ, possibly materially, from those in the specific projections, goals, assumptions and statements
include:   

actions by credit rating agencies;     
           changes in market conditions;     
           the occurrence of catastrophic events;     
           significant legal proceedings;     
           concentrations in AIG's investment portfolios, including its municipal bond portfolio;     
           judgments concerning casualty insurance underwriting and reserves;     
           judgments concerning the recognition of deferred tax assets;     
           judgments concerning deferred policy acquisition costs (DAC) recoverability;    
 
  AIG 2011 Form 10-K            49  

Table of Contents   

judgments concerning the recoverability of aircraft values in ILFC's fleet; and     
           such other factors as are discussed throughout this Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and
Results of Operations (MD A) and in Item 1A. Risk Factors of this Annual Report on Form 10-K.    

AIG
is not under any obligation (and expressly disclaims any obligation) to update or alter any projections, goals, assumptions or other statements, whether written or oral, that may be
made from time to time, whether as a result of new information, future events or otherwise. Unless the context otherwise requires, the terms AIG, the Company, we, us, and our mean AIG and its
consolidated subsidiaries.   

USE OF NON-GAAP MEASURES    

      Throughout this MD A, AIG presents its operations in the way it believes will be most meaningful and representative of ongoing operations as well
as most transparent. Certain of the measurements used by AIG management are "non-GAAP financial measures" under Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC) rules and regulations.   

      AIG
analyzes the operating performance of Chartis using underwriting profit (loss). Operating income (loss), which is income (loss) before net realized capital gains (losses) and related
deferred policy acquisition costs (DAC) and sales inducement asset (SIA) amortization, is utilized to report results for SunAmerica Financial Group (SunAmerica) operations. Management believes that
these measures enhance the understanding of the underlying profitability of the ongoing operations of these businesses and allow for more meaningful comparisons with AIG's insurance competitors.
Reconciliations of these measures to the most directly comparable measurement derived from accounting principles generally accepted in the United States (GAAP), pre-tax income, are
included in Results of Operations.   

EXECUTIVE OVERVIEW    

         This executive overview of management's discussion and analysis highlights selected information and may not contain all of
the information that is important to current or potential investors in AIG's securities. This Annual Report on Form 10-K should be read in its entirety for a complete description of
events, trends and uncertainties as well as the capital, liquidity, credit, operational and market risks and the critical accounting estimates affecting AIG and its
subsidiaries.   

FINANCIAL OVERVIEW   

      As further discussed in Note 22 to the Consolidated Financial Statements, AIG concluded that $16.6 billion of the deferred tax asset
valuation allowance for the U.S. consolidated income tax group should be released through the Consolidated Statement of Operations in 2011.   

      AIG's
loss from continuing operations before income taxes represented a $19.0 billion decrease compared to its 2010 income and reflected the following:   

a $3.3 billion net loss on extinguishment of debt recorded in the first quarter of 2011, primarily consisting of
the accelerated amortization of the prepaid commitment fee asset resulting from the termination of the Credit Agreement, dated as of September 22, 2008 (as amended, the Federal Reserve Bank of
New York (FRBNY) Credit Facility) on January 14, 2011, partially offset by a $484 million gain on extinguishment of debt in the fourth quarter of 2011 related to the exchange of junior
subordinated debt;     
           significant catastrophe losses for Chartis totaling $3.3 billion, including losses from Thailand floods in the
fourth quarter of 2011, Hurricane Irene in the third quarter of 2011, the U.S. tornadoes in the second quarter of 2011 and the Great Tohoku Earthquake   Tsunami (the Tohoku catastrophe) in the
first quarter of 2011, compared to catastrophe losses of $1.1 billion in 2010;     
           losses for Aircraft Leasing of $1.7 billion due to impairment charges, fair value adjustments and lease-related
charges on aircraft in both 2011 and 2010;    

50            AIG 2011 Form 10-K  

Table of Contents   

$604 million in unfavorable fair value adjustments on AIG's economic interest in Maiden Lane II LLC (ML
II) and equity interest in Maiden Lane III LLC (ML III) (together, the Maiden Lane Interests);     
           2010 included a gain of $17.8 billion on sales of divested businesses, primarily consisting of a gain of
$16.3 billion from the completion of the initial public offering and listing of AIA Group Limited (AIA) ordinary shares on the Hong Kong Stock Exchange on October 29, 2010, as well as a
gain of $1.3 billion recognized in 2010 related to the sale of AIG's headquarters building in Tokyo in 2009 which gain had been deferred until the expiration of certain lease provisions; and    
           income in 2010 from divested businesses prior to their sale totaling $2.5 billion, primarily representing AIA.    

Partially
offsetting these declines were;    

a reduction in prior year adverse loss development in 2011 compared to 2010;     
           a decrease in interest expense of $4.1 billion primarily resulting from the January 2011 repayment of the FRBNY
Credit Facility;     
           an increase in the fair value of AIA ordinary shares; and     
           a reduction in realized capital losses in 2011 compared to 2010.    

In
2011, AIG recorded income from discontinued operations net of taxes of $1.5 billion, which included a pre-tax gain of $2.0 billion recorded in the first
quarter of 2011 on the sale of AIG Star Life Insurance Co., Ltd. (AIG Star) and AIG Edison Life Insurance Company (AIG Edison) compared to a net loss of $2.1 billion in 2010,
which included goodwill impairment charges of $4.6 billion associated with the sale of American Life Insurance Company (ALICO), AIG Star and AIG Edison.   

      See
Results of Operations herein for additional discussion of our results.   

RESTRUCTURING ACTIVITY OVERVIEW   

      AIG substantially completed its recapitalization plan (the Recapitalization) and its asset disposition plan with the following significant
milestones in 2011:   

On January 14, 2011 (the Closing), AIG completed the Recapitalization, which included:    

repaying the $20.7 billion outstanding balance and terminating the FRBNY Credit Facility;    
           applying proceeds from the AIA initial public offering and the ALICO sale to partially pay down the preferred interests in
the special purpose vehicles that held AIA and ALICO (the AIA SPV and the ALICO SPV, respectively, and collectively, the SPVs, and such preferred interests, the SPV Preferred Interests). As part of
the Recapitalization, AIG used $6.1 billion of the cash proceeds from the sale of ALICO to pay down a portion of the liquidation preference of the SPV Preferred Interests; and    
           exchanging preferred stock held by the Department of the Treasury and the AIG Credit Facility Trust (the Trust) for AIG
common stock, par value $2.50 per share (AIG Common Stock).     

The SPV Preferred Interests were further reduced during 2011 by $11.5 billion using proceeds from the sale of AIG
Star, AIG Edison, Nan Shan Life Insurance Company, Ltd. (Nan Shan) and the MetLife, Inc. (MetLife) securities received in the sale of ALICO. In addition, on November 1, 2011, in
accordance with the terms of the MetLife escrow agreement from the sale of ALICO, approximately $918 million was released to AIG. These proceeds, together with an additional $53 million,
were applied to pay down a portion of the liquidation preference of the Department of the Treasury's AIA SPV Preferred Interests. See Note 16 to the Consolidated Financial Statements for
further discussion.     
           On September 2, 2011, ILFC Holdings, Inc. (ILFC Holdings), an indirect wholly-owned subsidiary of AIG, which
is intended to become a holding company for ILFC, filed a registration statement on Form S-1 with the SEC for a proposed initial public offering. All proceeds received by AIG will
be used to pay down a portion of the liquidation preference of the Department of the Treasury's AIA SPV Preferred Interests.    
 
  AIG 2011 Form 10-K            51  

Table of Contents   

      See
Capital Resources and Liquidity herein and Notes 1, 4, and 17 to the Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information.   

OTHER CAPITAL RESOURCES AND LIQUIDITY DEVELOPMENTS   

      Other significant capital resources and liquidity developments in 2011 include:   

On May 27, 2011, AIG and the Department of the Treasury, as the selling shareholder, completed a registered public
offering of AIG Common Stock. AIG issued and sold 100 million shares of AIG Common Stock for aggregate net proceeds of approximately $2.9 billion and the Department of the Treasury sold
200 million shares of AIG Common Stock. AIG did not receive any of the proceeds from the sale of shares of AIG Common Stock by the Department of the Treasury.     
           On September 13, 2011, AIG received approximately $2.0 billion in proceeds from the issuance of senior
unsecured notes. AIG is using the proceeds from the sale of these notes to pay maturing notes that were issued by AIG to fund the Matched Investment Program (MIP).     
           On October 12, 2011, the previously outstanding AIG 364-Day Syndicated Facility, AIG 3-Year
Syndicated Facility and Chartis letter of credit facility were terminated and AIG entered into a $1.5 billion 364-Day Syndicated Facility and a $3.0 billion
4-Year Syndicated Facility. The new 4-Year Syndicated Facility provides for $3.0 billion of revolving loans, which includes a $1.5 billion letter of credit
sublimit.     
           In November 2011, AIG exchanged $2.4 billion of its outstanding Junior Subordinated Debentures for
$1.8 billion senior notes pursuant to an exchange offer. The exchange resulted in a pre-tax gain on extinguishment of debt of approximately $484 million, which is reflected
in Net loss on extinguishment of debt in the Consolidated Statement of Operations, and a deferred gain of $65 million reflected in Other long-term debt in the Consolidated Balance
Sheet, which will be amortized as a reduction to future interest expense.     
           ILFC executed the following transactions in 2011:    

an unsecured $2.0 billion three-year revolving credit facility;     
           a secured $1.5 billion term loan;     
           the issuance of $2.9 billion aggregate principal amount of senior notes; and     
           the purchase of approximately $1.67 billion aggregate principal amount of notes for total cash consideration,
including accrued interest, of approximately $1.75 billion. ILFC recorded losses of $61 million on the extinguishment of debt;    

See
Capital Resources and Liquidity herein and Notes 1, 4, 15 and 17 to the Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information on these transactions.   

OUTLOOK   

Priorities for 2012            

      AIG remains committed to its long-term aspirational goals and is focused on the following priorities for
2012:   

continuing to strengthen and grow AIG's core businesses;     
           developing and implementing plans to maximize the value of resources available for repayment of the AIA SPV Preferred
Interests held by the Department of the Treasury;     
           implementing a strategic alternative for ILFC through an initial public offering or sale;     
           managing its capital and interest expense more efficiently;     
           taking appropriate actions to prepare for scenarios under which the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System (the
FRB) would become AIG's regulator;    

52            AIG 2011 Form 10-K  

Table of Contents   

continuing to build, strengthen and streamline the financial and operating systems infrastructure and control environment
throughout the organization, particularly in financial reporting, financial operations and human resources; and     
           restructuring AIG's operations consistent with its smaller size and plans to increase its competitiveness.    

Deferred Policy Acquisition Costs            

      In October 2010, the Financial Accounting Standards Board (FASB) issued an accounting standard update that amends the accounting for deferring
costs incurred by insurance companies in connection with acquiring or renewing insurance contracts to limit deferral to only costs that are incremental and directly related to the successful
acquisition of new business or renewal of existing business.   

      As
a result, AIG expects a pre-tax reduction of Deferred policy acquisition costs at January 1, 2012 of approximately $4.9 billion and an after-tax
decrease in AIG shareholders' equity of approximately $3.3 billion, consisting of a decrease in Retained earnings of approximately $3.7 billion, partially offset by an increase in
Accumulated other comprehensive income of $0.4 billion. The reduction in DAC is primarily due to costs associated with unsuccessful sales efforts, which are no longer deferrable, and
advertising costs that do not meet the direct response advertising criteria under the accounting standard. The reduction in DAC at January 1, 2012 includes a reduction at Chartis of
approximately $2.8 billion and SunAmerica of approximately $2.1 billion. The retrospective adoption will improve Income (loss) from continuing operations before income tax expense
(benefit) by approximately $149 million, $90 million and $40 million, respectively, for the years ended December 31, 2011, 2010, and 2009. The improvement in Income (loss)
from continuing operations is primarily due to the amortization of acquisition costs being greater than the deferral of acquisition costs in these years, and therefore due to the adoption of the
standard, the reduction in amortization expense is greater than the reduction in deferrals. The impact to these years includes the results from Chartis, SunAmerica, UGC and divested businesses. During
this three-year period, the composition of DAC reflects the change in the mix of distribution channels.   

   The following table shows the increase (decrease) to pre-tax income (loss) for the years ended December 31, 2011, 2010 and 2009 related to the retrospective
adoption of the accounting standard for each business unit impacted:   

Chartis expects the accounting standard will increase its future combined ratio by approximately 50 to 100 basis points. However,
the increase could vary depending on the level of premium production, changes in product mix and distribution channels utilized to acquire business. For SunAmerica, the effect on future years'
earnings will be partially offset by lower amortization resulting from the reduction in the existing DAC asset upon adoption. As a result, this standard is not expected to have a material effect on
SunAmerica operating results in 2012.   

      See
Note 2 to the Consolidated Financial Statements for further discussion.   

Chartis            

      Given the continued global economic environment and current property and casualty market conditions, 2012 is expected to remain challenging, but
improving trends in certain key indicators may offset some of the challenges. The weakness of ratable exposures (asset values, payrolls, and sales) experienced in 2009 and 2010 and its negative impact
on the overall market premium base, as well as continued weakness in commercial insurance rates, were initially expected to continue through 2011. However, in 2011, Chartis observed that the extent of
ratable exposure weakness in the United States was beginning to abate. In addition, beginning in the second quarter of 2011 and   

  AIG 2011 Form 10-K            53  

Table of Contents   

continuing
through the fourth quarter of 2011, Chartis observed continuing positive pricing trends, particularly in its U.S. commercial business for the first time since 2009. In certain growth
economies such as Brazil, Turkey, India, and Asia Pacific countries, Chartis continues to expect improved growth.   

Strategy           

      Chartis continues to make strides in its strategy to further grow its higher value and less capital intensive lines of business, and to implement
corrective actions on underperforming businesses. Management continues to review the businesses to ensure that they meet overall performance measures.   

      Chartis
seeks to provide value for people and businesses worldwide through the identification and efficient management of risk. In pursuing this mission and in growing its intrinsic
value, Chartis has established strategic initiatives in several key areas. Initiatives in these areas are helping Chartis to direct its capital and resources to optimize financial results, while
acknowledging that performance in these areas may vary from quarter to quarter depending upon local market conditions, such as pricing and the effects of foreign exchange rates or changes in the
investment environment.   

Business Mix Changes            

      Chartis is pursuing initiatives to grow in higher value, less volatile lines of business and geographies. In Commercial Insurance,
Chartis is leveraging its significant geographic footprint and multinational capabilities to serve large and mid-sized businesses with cross-border operations. Commercial Insurance is also
expanding its presence in the growth economy nations (which primarily includes nations in Asia Pacific, the Middle East and Latin America). Chartis' new global organizational design will enable
Commercial Insurance to more effectively leverage underwriting and product best practices to enhance customer and channel management. In the Americas and the Europe, Middle East and Africa (EMEA)
regions, Commercial Insurance expects to improve the quality of its portfolio and to capitalize on market opportunities. In the Asia Pacific region, management expects to leverage the additional
distribution and customer base acquired in connection with the purchase of Fuji Fire   Marine Insurance Company Limited (Fuji).   

      Since
2009, Consumer Insurance has increased net premiums written by 47 percent, primarily driven by the Fuji acquisition. In 2011, Consumer Insurance represented
38 percent of Chartis' net premiums written, compared to 30 percent in 2009. Consumer Insurance continues to grow its net premiums written in key markets and to expand internationally.
Consumer Insurance has well-established global franchises and operations, existing growth strategies in multiple distribution channels which include direct to consumer, agent, broker and
affinity groups, and a focus on the growth economy nations. In the Asia Pacific region, the acquisition of Fuji enables the continued expansion of its distribution and customer base across a breadth
of products. In the Americas region, Consumer Insurance continues to focus its growth in key areas, such as the high net worth and affluent markets, and will implement a group benefits strategy with
American General. In the EMEA region, management expects modest growth and will continue to focus on solid underwriting performance.   

Loss Ratio Improvement            

      Chartis expects that by implementing selective pricing, underwriting and distribution strategies, net premiums written will grow
without increasing the relative volatility of losses. In addition, Chartis expects to continue to focus on reducing the costs associated with adjusting claims by improving efficiency in servicing its
customers, thus improving its loss ratio. In the commercial casualty lines, underwriting changes have been made to address historical experience with respect to adverse development. Changes include
increased actuarial involvement in product aggregate pricing and attachments, increased utilization of pricing and predictive models with actuarial support, policy form changes, increased policy
exclusions and fewer
multi-year policies being offered. During 2011, as part of its on-going initiatives to reduce exposure to capital intensive long-tail lines, Chartis determined to
cease writing excess workers' compensation business as a stand-alone product.   

      In
2011, management took remedial actions related to certain Consumer Insurance programs that did not meet internal performance or operating targets. Accident   Health (A H)
improved in key markets such as Far East,   

  54            AIG 2011 Form 10-K  

Table of Contents   

Europe
and Asia Pacific as a result of underwriting actions, and Personal Lines improved as a result of rate increases in key markets, such as the Far East region.   

Expense Discipline            

      To achieve expense reductions, Chartis plans to take advantage of its global footprint to improve efficiencies and expand the use of
shared services to support regional businesses in strategic locations, reduce use of external services and negotiate preferred rates with vendors. In the near term, Chartis may increase certain
operating expenses in order to develop future improvements and efficiencies.   

      As
a result of the business mix shift and the investment in the growth economy nations, policy acquisition expenses are expected to increase in 2012. Chartis expects, however, that these
changes will ultimately help to generate business with overall more favorable underwriting results.   

Risk Selection            

      Commercial Insurance continued to pursue a comprehensive strategy in 2011 to strengthen its portfolio performance. This includes
specific actions in the U.S. Specialty Workers Compensation business. The Commercial Property business continues to improve through increased rates, improved terms and conditions and reductions in
exposures to U.S. catastrophes. Additionally, Commercial Insurance is implementing the development and use of pricing and risk selection tools in many lines of business.   

Consumer
Insurance continued to exercise underwriting discipline in risk selection processes to balance risk exposures to the premiums charged in most lines of business in 2011. Improved
premium pricing methods through
a better understanding of risk attributes has led to better risk selection. Investments continue to be made in risk and marketing analytics, which will further strengthen Chartis' capabilities in
these areas.   

Capital Deployment           

      Chartis' scale and geographical diversification also allow the business to strategically deploy capital to pursue the more attractive
long-term opportunities around the world. Chartis regularly reviews and adjusts its business mix with the goals of aligning risk profile with risk tolerance and meeting capital management
objectives.   

      In
the second half of 2011, Chartis began to restructure renewals of certain Commercial Casualty loss-sensitive programs from a retrospectively rated premium structure to a
more capital efficient loss reimbursement deductible structure. The deductible structure reduces net premiums written and limits the variability around individual insured premium and claim adjustments
when compared to retrospectively rated programs. This overall reduction in the premium and claims adjustment variability creates a corresponding reduction in the required capital needed to support
this business. The effect of these initiatives decreased net premiums written in casualty lines for 2011. Chartis expects further declines in net premiums written in this class of business through
2012. However, given the capital-intensive nature of these classes of business, Chartis expects that over time, these actions will improve its overall results.   

      In
2012, Chartis expects to continue to execute capital management initiatives by enhancing broad-based risk tolerance guidelines for its operating units and executing underwriting and
reinsurance strategies to improve capital ratios and reduce volatility, increase return on equity by line of business and reduce exposure to businesses with inadequate pricing and increased loss
trends.   

Investments           

      Consistent with AIG's worldwide insurance investment policy, Chartis places primary emphasis on investments in fixed maturity securities issued by
corporations, municipalities and other governmental agencies, and to a lesser extent, common stocks, private equity, hedge funds and other alternative investments.   

      Fixed
maturity securities held by Chartis historically have included tax-exempt municipal bonds, which provided attractive after-tax returns and limited credit
risk. In order to better optimize its overall investment portfolio, including risk-return and tax objectives, Chartis has begun to shift from tax-exempt municipal bonds to
taxable   

  AIG 2011 Form 10-K            55  

Table of Contents   

instruments,
which meet Chartis' liquidity, duration and credit quality objectives as well as current risk-return and tax objectives. In addition, Chartis has redeployed cash in excess of
operating needs and short term investments into longer term, higher yielding securities.   

      Chartis
makes determinations of other-than-temporary impairments based on the fundamental credit analyses of individual securities. Life settlement contracts are
evaluated on a contract-by-contract basis to assess impairment. During the second quarter of 2011, Chartis implemented an enhanced process in which updated medical information
on individual insured lives is requested on a routine basis. In cases where updated information indicates that an individual's health has improved, an impairment loss may arise as a result of revised
estimates of net cash flows from the related contract. Chartis also revised its valuation table, which it uses in estimating future net cash flows.   

Recently,
a number of courts have addressed various life settlement related issues in their decisions. Chartis does not expect that the rulings in those cases will have a significant
effect on its investment in life settlement contracts.   

      See
Segment Results   Chartis Operations   Chartis Results   Chartis Investing and Other Results and Note 7 to the
Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information.   

SunAmerica            

      SunAmerica continues to pursue its goals of expanding the breadth and depth of its distribution relationships, introducing competitive new
products and product riders, maintaining a high quality investment portfolio and strong statutory surplus, pro-actively managing expenses and, subject to regulatory approval, increasing
payments made to AIG Parent. SunAmerica made progress on all of these efforts during 2011, and expects this progress to continue for 2012.   

      SunAmerica's
businesses and the life and annuity industry continue to be affected by the current economic environment of low interest rates and equity market volatility. Continued low
interest rates put pressure on long-term investment returns, negatively affect future sales of interest rate-sensitive products and reduce future profits. Also, products such
as payout annuities and traditional life insurance that are not rate-adjustable may require increases in reserves if future investment yields are insufficient to support current valuation
interest rates. Equity market volatility may result in higher reserves for variable annuity
guarantee features, and both equity market volatility and low interest rates can affect the recoverability and amortization rate of DAC assets.   

      SunAmerica's
insurance companies, like other insurers, are subject to regulation and supervision by the states and jurisdictions in which they do business. State regulation relates
primarily to financial condition as well as corporate conduct and market conduct activities; in particular, states have also become increasingly aggressive in using escheatment laws to seek recovery
of unclaimed life insurance benefits. There are a number of proposals to amend state insurance laws and regulations, and a review of insurance solvency regulation throughout the U.S. regulatory
system, which could significantly affect SunAmerica's businesses. At the federal level, the Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act (Dodd-Frank) will subject
SunAmerica's insurers, investment advisors, broker-dealers and their affiliates to additional federal regulation. In addition, regulators and lawmakers around the world are developing recommendations
to address such issues as financial group supervision, capital and solvency standards, and related issues, which could potentially affect SunAmerica. See Item 1. Business  
Regulation for additional information.   

Variable Annuities           

      SunAmerica experienced an increase in its variable annuity sales as various distribution partners resumed sales of SunAmerica's products during
2010 and 2011. SunAmerica's largest pre-financial-crisis variable annuity distribution partner resumed distribution of SunAmerica's products in mid-2011. As a result of broader
distribution opportunities, SunAmerica expects variable annuity sales to remain strong in 2012.   

SunAmerica
has a dynamic hedging program designed to manage economic risk exposure associated with changes in the fair value of embedded policy derivative liabilities contained in
certain variable annuity contracts,   

  56            AIG 2011 Form 10-K  

Table of Contents   

caused
by changes in the equity markets, interest rates and market implied volatilities. SunAmerica substantially hedges its exposure to equity markets. However, due to regulatory capital
considerations, a significant portion of the interest rate exposure is unhedged. In 2011, SunAmerica experienced losses of $265 million from these unhedged positions, primarily as a result of
the effect of declining interest rates. SunAmerica has purchased additional hedges and is contemplating additional capital-efficient strategies to reduce this interest rate exposure. SunAmerica is
also exposed to the risk of policyholder behavior differing from that assumed in its pricing model.   

Fixed Annuities           

      After a period of historic lows, interest rates generally increased at the longer part of the yield curve during the latter part of 2010 and
through the first three months of 2011 before declining significantly in the latter part of 2011. Changes in the interest rate environment affect the relative attractiveness of fixed annuities
compared to alternative products. As a result, SunAmerica's fixed annuity sales declined significantly in the last six months of 2011 compared to the first six months. If the low interest rate
environment continues, SunAmerica expects fixed annuities sales (including deposits into fixed options within variable annuities sold in group retirement markets) to decline in 2012.   

Life Insurance           

      SunAmerica's strategic focus includes disciplined underwriting, active expense management, product innovation, a high quality investment portfolio
and a strong capital position. SunAmerica's distribution strategy is to grow new sales by strengthening the core retail independent distributor channel with investments in enhanced service technology,
and expanding its market presence to additional channels and niche markets.   

      SunAmerica's
retail life sales increased 17 percent during 2011. Based on industry information available through the first nine months of 2011, this growth rate exceeded that of
the industry as SunAmerica continued to re-engage distributors lost during the 2008 economic crisis. SunAmerica anticipates this trend to continue in 2012. The economic environment has put
pressure on consumer spending capacity, which, in part, has tempered sales of universal life products which typically have higher annual premiums than term products and also offer additional features.   

The
direct-to-consumer channel has proven effective for the distribution of certain types of less complex products, and provides opportunities to bring innovative
product solutions to the market that take advantage of new underwriting technologies. Sales growth through SunAmerica's affiliated Matrix Direct channel outpaced retail sales growth and SunAmerica
continues to have a positive outlook on future direct sales. The career distribution channel is focused on improving agent retention and productivity. Career distribution sales in 2011 benefitted from
a product suite that has proven appealing to consumers, which is offered though a highly focused, affiliated distribution group using improved point-of-sale technologies.
Steady growth from this channel is expected to continue.   

Investments           

      SunAmerica built up a large cash and short-term investment position beginning in the fourth quarter of 2010 with the intention of
purchasing all the assets in the ML II portfolio. Following the FRBNY's decision in early 2011 to begin selling the MLII assets through a competitive bidding process, SunAmerica began acquiring other
fixed maturity investments, including certain securities from ML II. Beginning late in the first quarter of 2011, SunAmerica began investing its excess cash and liquid assets in
longer-term higher-yielding securities to improve spreads, while actively managing credit and liquidity risks. SunAmerica substantially completed this reinvestment during the year,
reducing its cash and short-term investment position from $19.4 billion at December 31, 2010 to $3.8 billion at December 31, 2011.   

      During
2011, SunAmerica sold approximately $12.9 billion of investments, which enhanced statutory capital and generated capital gains. The proceeds of these sales were reinvested
at generally lower yields. The impact of these lower yields, however, was more than offset by the effect of cash redeployment discussed above. Additionally, during prolonged periods of low or
declining interest rates, SunAmerica has to invest net flows and re-invest interest and principal payments from its investment portfolios in lower yielding securities.   

  AIG 2011 Form 10-K            57  

Table of Contents    

Interest Crediting Rates           

      SunAmerica's annuity and universal life products have contractual provisions that allow crediting rates to be reset at pre-established
intervals subject to minimum crediting rate guarantees. Due to the contractual provisions for renewal of crediting rates and the minimum crediting rate guarantees, continuation of the current low
interest rate environment may reduce SunAmerica's interest spreads which may reduce future profitability. SunAmerica partially mitigates this interest rate risk through its asset-liability management
process, product design elements, and crediting rate strategies. A prolonged low interest rate environment may, nevertheless, negatively affect spreads on interest-sensitive business. As indicated in
the table below, approximately 45 percent of SunAmerica's annuity and universal life account values are at their minimum crediting rates as of December 31, 2011. These products have
minimum guaranteed interest rates as of December 31, 2011 ranging from 1.0 percent to 5.5 percent with the higher rates representing older product guarantees.   

The following table presents account values by range of current minimum guaranteed interest rates and current crediting rates for SunAmerica's universal life and deferred fixed
annuity products:   

In addition to the products discussed above, certain traditional long-duration products for which SunAmerica does not have the ability
to adjust interest rates, such as payout annuities, are exposed to reduced earnings and potential losses in a prolonged low interest rate environment. For additional information, see Critical
Accounting Estimates   Future Policy Benefits for Life and Accident and Health Insurance Contracts (SunAmerica Companies).   

Aircraft Leasing            

      ILFC continues to execute on its strategy of managing its fleet of aircraft by ordering new aircraft with high customer demand and through
potential sales or part-outs of its older aircraft that cannot be economically leased to customers. As new and more fuel efficient aircraft enter the marketplace and negatively affect the
demand for older aircraft, lease rates on older aircraft may deteriorate and ILFC may incur additional losses on sales or record impairment charges and fair value adjustments.   

  58            AIG 2011 Form 10-K  

Table of Contents   

      In
the near term, challenges in the global economy, including the European sovereign debt crisis, political uncertainty in the Middle East, and sustained higher fuel prices have
negatively impacted many airlines' profitability, cash flows and liquidity, and increased the probability that some, including ones that are ILFC customers, will cease operations or file for
bankruptcy. During the year ended December 31, 2011, ILFC had seven of its lessees cease operations or file for bankruptcy (or its equivalent) and return nine of its aircraft. Since
December 31, 2011, ILFC has had four additional lessees cease operations or file for bankruptcy (or its equivalent) and return 42 of its aircraft. Of these aircraft, 17 remain to be
re-leased as of February 21, 2012. Future events, including a prolonged recession, ongoing uncertainty regarding the European sovereign debt crisis, political unrest, continued weak
consumer demand, high fuel prices, or restricted availability of credit to the aviation industry could lead to the weakening or cessation of operations of additional airlines, which in turn would
adversely affect ILFC's earnings and cash flows.   

      On
September 2, 2011, ILFC Holdings, Inc., an indirect wholly-owned subsidiary of AIG, which is intended to become a holding company for ILFC, filed a registration
statement on Form S-1 with the SEC for a proposed initial public offering. The number of shares to be offered, price range and timing for any offering have
not been determined. The timing of any offering will depend on market conditions and no assurance can be given regarding the terms of any offering or that an offering will be completed.   

Other Operations            

          Mortgage Guaranty           

      UGC has continued its strategy of differentiating itself from its competitors through its risk-based pricing approach and has emerged
as a leading producer of new mortgage insurance business. UGC believes its differentiated pricing and underwriting practices have helped establish it as a leader in the industry. During 2011, UGC has
significantly increased new insurance written over 2010 levels while improving the risk profile of its in force book of business. The mortgage insurance industry, however, has come under continued
financial stress during 2011 due to the continued poor macroeconomic conditions with some mortgage insurers exceeding their respective regulatory capital leverage ratios. As a result, two of these
insurers have ceased selling new insurance and the parent of one of these insurers was placed into bankruptcy. The withdrawal of these competitors from the market combined with the differentiation
strategy that UGC implemented in late 2010 and early 2011 has positioned the company to take advantage of market opportunities. UGC plans to continue this strategy during 2012 with continuing
improvements in market share and continued improvement in the risk profile of new business written.   

In
older books of business, primarily the 2005 to 2008 books, newly reported delinquencies declined while increased claims severity and overturns on previously denied claims unfavorably
affected results. UGC continued to deny claims and rescind coverage on loans (collectively referred to as rescissions) related to fraudulent or undocumented claims, underwriting
guideline violations and other deviations from contractual terms, mostly with respect to the 2006 and 2007 vintage books of business. These policy violations resulted in loan rescissions
totaling $746 million of claims on first-lien business during 2011 compared to $781 million during 2010. Although rescissions will continue to have a positive effect on UGC's
financial results, higher levels of appeals and overturns resulting from additional resources deployed by lenders and mortgage servicers to address loan documentation issues have offset rescissions.
During 2011 rescissions totaling $411 million of risk were overturned compared to $172 million in 2010. While these items may increase volatility in the future, UGC believes it has
provided appropriate reserves for currently delinquent loans after consideration of rescissions and overturns, consistent with industry practice. Additionally, during 2011, UGC changed its follow up
practice for loans that had been delinquent approximately 24 months or more and were not expected to be cured. Beginning in the third quarter of 2011, UGC contacted lenders regarding 18,000
loans or approximately 19 percent of the delinquent inventory and requested that, in accordance with the terms of the respective master policies, the lender file a claim. By the end of
2011, UGC had received responses to approximately half of the requests. UGC continues to monitor and review the status of these requests as well as contacting lenders on an ongoing basis about
additional delinquencies that meet these criteria. Under these master policies, if a claim is not submitted within a year of UGC's request, coverage will be cancelled.   

  AIG 2011 Form 10-K            59  

Table of Contents   

      Foreclosure
moratoriums as a result of state attorneys general investigations into lenders' foreclosure practices and new financial regulations initiated in 2010 have slowed the
reporting of claims from foreclosures, which has increased the uncertainty surrounding the determination of the liability. UGC's assumptions regarding future foreclosures on current delinquencies take
into consideration this trend, although significant uncertainty remains surrounding the determination of the liability for unpaid claims and claims adjustment expenses. UGC expects that this trend may
continue and may negatively affect UGC's future financial results. Final resolution of these issues is uncertain and UGC cannot reasonably estimate the ultimate financial impact that any resolution,
individually or collectively, may have on its future results of operations or financial condition. In addition, UGC has segmented its reserving approach to consider slower development patterns and
higher severity in certain states separately from other states. UGC expects to continue this practice as long as significant variances persist among states.   

In
March 2011, federal regulators, as required by Dodd-Frank, issued a proposed risk retention rule that included a definition of a Qualified Residential Mortgage (QRM) in
respect of which issuers of asset-backed securities would not be subject to certain risk retention requirements. The QRM definition included, among other standards, a maximum
loan-to-value ratio (LTV) of 80 percent for a home purchase transaction. The LTV is calculated without imputing any benefit from private mortgage insurance coverage that
may be purchased for that loan. The final regulations could adversely impact UGC's volume of domestic first-lien new insurance written, depending on the final definition of a QRM, the
maximum LTV allowed and the benefit, if any, ascribed to private mortgage insurance.   

Global Capital Markets           

      The active wind-down of the AIGFP derivatives portfolio was completed by the end of the second quarter of 2011. Although the remaining
AIGFP derivatives portfolio may experience periodic fair value volatility, the portfolio consists predominantly of transactions AIG believes are of low complexity, low risk, supportive of AIG's risk
management objectives or not economically appropriate to unwind based on a cost versus benefit analysis.   

Direct Investment Book           

      MIP assets and liabilities and certain non-derivative assets and liabilities of AIGFP (collectively the Direct Investment book or DIB)
are currently managed collectively on a single program basis to limit the need for
additional liquidity from AIG Parent. Liquidity requirements for the DIB are managed by transferring cash between AIG Parent and AIGFP as needed.   

      Program
management is focused on winding down this portfolio over time, and reducing and managing its liquidity needs, including contingent liquidity arising from collateral posting, for
both derivative and debt positions of the DIB. As part of this program management, AIG may from time to time access the capital markets, subject to market conditions. In addition, AIG may seek to buy
back debt or sell assets on an opportunistic basis, subject to market conditions.   

      Certain
non-derivative assets and liabilities of the DIB are accounted for under the fair value option and thus operating results are subject to periodic market volatility.   

Retained Interests           

      Retained Interests may continue to experience volatility due to fair value gains or losses on the AIA ordinary shares and the retained interest in
ML III. At December 31, 2011, AIG owned approximately 33 percent of the outstanding shares of AIA. A one Hong Kong dollar change in AIA's share price would result in an approximate
$500 million change in AIG's pre-tax income.   

Corporate   Other           

      In 2011, AIG completed the Recapitalization, executed transactions in the debt and equity capital markets and substantially completed its asset
disposition plan. It is expected that declines in interest expense and disposition activity costs will be at least partially offset in the short term by increases in other corporate expenses,
primarily   

  60            AIG 2011 Form 10-K  

Table of Contents   

attributable
to corporate initiatives and efforts to continue improving internal controls and financial and operating technology platforms.   

      On
October 18, 2011, the Financial Stability Oversight Council (the FSOC) published a second notice of proposed rulemaking and related interpretive guidance under
Dodd-Frank regarding the designation of non-bank systemically important financial institutions (SIFIs). The new proposal sets forth a three-stage determination process for
designating non-bank SIFIs. In Stage 1, FSOC would apply a
set of uniform quantitative thresholds to identify the nonbank financial companies that will be subject to further evaluation. Based on its financial condition as of December 31, 2011, AIG
would meet the criteria in Stage 1 and would be subject to further evaluation by the FSOC in the SIFI determination process. Because Stages 2 and 3 as proposed would involve qualitative
judgment by the FSOC, AIG cannot predict whether it would be designated as a non-bank SIFI under the proposed rule. See Item 1. Business   Regulation and
Item 1A. Risk Factors for additional information.   

      The
remainder of MD A is organized as follows:   

AIG has incorporated into this discussion a number of cross-references to additional information included throughout this Annual Report on
Form 10-K to assist readers seeking additional information related to a particular subject.   

RESULTS OF OPERATIONS    

      In order to align financial reporting with changes made during 2011 to the manner in which AIG's chief operating decision makers review the
businesses to assess performance and make decisions about resources to be allocated, AIG changed its segments in the third quarter of 2011. AIG now reports the results of its operations   

  AIG 2011 Form 10-K            61  

Table of Contents   

through
three reportable segments: Chartis, SunAmerica Financial Group (SunAmerica), and Aircraft Leasing. Through these reportable segments, AIG provides insurance, financial and investment products
and services to both businesses and individuals in more than 130 countries. AIG's subsidiaries serve commercial, institutional and individual customers through an extensive property-casualty and life
insurance and retirement services network. Aircraft Leasing includes commercial aircraft and equipment leasing. AIG's Other operations category consists of businesses and items not allocated to AIG's
reportable segments.   

CONSOLIDATED RESULTS   

      During 2011, AIG experienced significant favorable developments, including the completion of the Recapitalization in January 2011, the
wind-down of AIGFP's portfolios, the sale of certain life insurance businesses, emergence from cumulative losses in recent years and a return to sustainable operating profits within its
primary operations. Notably:   

AIG released approximately $16.6 billion of the deferred tax asset valuation allowance for the U.S. consolidated
income tax group. The fourth quarter effect was $17.7 billion, which included valuation allowance increases during the first nine months of 2011. See Critical Accounting
Estimates   Recoverability of Deferred Tax Asset herein and Note 22 of the Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information;     
           Chartis prior year adverse loss reserve development declined by $4.6 billion to $211 million;    
           Interest expense declined $4.1 billion, primarily due to the termination of the FRBNY Credit Facility;
and    
           Improving equity markets contributed to a $1.3 billion increase in the market valuation of AIG's holding of AIA
ordinary shares.    

Offsetting
these favorable developments were record catastrophe losses for Chartis and the effects of several macroeconomic drivers, including declining equity markets, widening credit
spreads, and declining interest rates, including:   

Total catastrophe losses of $3.3 billion for Chartis in 2011 compared to $1.1 billion in 2010;    
           Aircraft Leasing losses of $1.7 billion due to impairment charges, fair value adjustments and lease-related charges
on aircraft;     
           The widening of credit spreads, reduced interest rates, and changes in the timing of estimated future cash flows drove
declines of $604 million in the recorded fair value of the Maiden Lane Interests;     
           AIG recognized a $3.3 billion loss on extinguishment of debt related to the termination of the FRBNY Credit
Facility, which was partially offset by a $484 million gain on extinguishment of debt associated with the exchange of junior subordinated debt; and    
           Components of operating results decreased due to the deconsolidation of AIA in the fourth quarter of 2010.    

62            AIG 2011 Form 10-K  

Table of Contents   

   The following table presents AIG's consolidated results of operations (comparability with 2010 and 2009 is affected by the deconsolidation of AIA in the fourth quarter of
2010):   

The comparisons of 2011 and 2010 results to the respective prior year follow:   

Premiums            

2011 and 2010 Comparison           

      Premiums decreased in 2011 compared to 2010 primarily due to the deconsolidation in the fourth quarter of 2010 of AIA, which accounted for
$9.3 billion of premiums in 2010. The decline in premiums for 2011 compared to 2010 was partially offset by an increase in Chartis premiums, primarily resulting from the consolidation of Fuji
commencing in the third quarter of 2010, and the favorable effect of foreign exchange rates.   

2010 and 2009 Comparison           

      Premiums decreased in 2010 compared to 2009 primarily due to a reduction of $3.3 billion related to 2009 dispositions that did not meet the
criteria for discontinued operations accounting. These dispositions included HSB Group, Inc. (HSB), 21st Century Insurance Group (including Agency Auto Division and excluding Chartis   

  AIG 2011 Form 10-K            63  

Table of Contents   

Private
Client Group) (21st Century) and AIG Life of Canada (AIG Life Canada), as well as the deconsolidation of Transatlantic Holdings, Inc (Transatlantic) in 2009.   

Policy Fees            

          2011 and 2010 Comparison           

Policy fees decreased slightly in 2011 compared to 2010 as higher variable annuity fee income was more than offset by lower surrender charges due
to decreased surrender rates and universal life unlockings.   

2010 and 2009 Comparison           

      Policy fees increased slightly for 2010 compared to 2009 primarily due to higher variable annuity fees on separate account assets consistent with
the growth in variable accounts assets as a result of favorable equity market conditions in late 2010.   

Net Investment Income            

   The following table summarizes the components of consolidated Net investment income:   

*       Includes hedge funds, private equity funds and affordable housing partnerships.      

2011 and 2010 Comparison           

      Net investment income decreased primarily due to the following:   

the effect of the deconsolidation of AIA in the fourth quarter of 2010. AIA net investment income prior to deconsolidation
in 2010 totaled $4.0 billion, which included $886 million in policyholder trading gains;     
           a decline in the fair value of the Maiden Lane Interests of $604 million due to significant widening of credit
spreads and reduced interest rates compared to gains of $2.3 billion in 2010; and    
           fair value losses on the MetLife securities prior to their sale in March 2011.    

64            AIG 2011 Form 10-K  

Table of Contents   

      These
decreases were partially offset by:   

fair value gains on the AIA ordinary shares in 2011 compared to losses in 2010; and    
           an increase in income from fixed maturity securities, excluding the effect of the AIA deconsolidation, due to higher
average invested asset balances as a result of the cash redeployment in 2011.    

2010 and 2009 Comparison           

      Net investment income increased in 2010 compared to 2009 primarily due to significantly higher income from private equity funds and hedge fund
investments due to an improved market environment compared to 2009, and increased valuation gains associated with the Maiden Lane Interests.   

      These
increases were partially offset by a decline in policyholder trading gains compared to 2009. Policyholder trading gains are offset by a change in Policyholder benefits and claims
incurred and generally reflect the trends in equity markets, principally in Asia.   

Net Realized Capital Gains (Losses)            

The following table summarizes the components of consolidated Net realized capital gains (losses):   

2011 and 2010 Comparison           

      AIG recognized net realized capital gains in 2011 compared to net realized capital losses in 2010 due to the following:   

lower other-than-temporary impairment charges from issuer-specific credit events and changes in
intent; and    
           improvement in the provision for loan losses due to an increase in collateral values as a result of improved operating
performance and improved market conditions.    

These
gains were partially offset by the following:   

lower gains on sales of equity securities in 2011 compared to 2010 due to higher sales in 2010 resulting from the
continuing insurance companies' portfolio repositioning;     
           fair value losses in 2011 compared to gains in 2010 on the MetLife securities prior to their sale in March 2011;    
           foreign exchange transaction losses incurred in 2011 compared to gains in 2010, primarily from the weakening of the U.S.
dollar against the Swiss Franc and Japanese Yen, partially offset by the strengthening of the U.S. dollar against the Euro and the British Pound; and    
           the deconsolidation of AIA.    
 
  AIG 2011 Form 10-K            65  

Table of Contents    

    2010 and 2009 Comparison      

      Net realized capital losses decreased in 2010 compared to 2009 primarily due to the following:   

increased gains on sales of fixed maturity and equity securities in 2010;     
           lower other-than-temporary impairment charges for fixed maturity securities in 2010 as a result of
the adoption of the other-than-temporary impairments accounting standard commencing in the second quarter of 2009. See Investments  
Impairments   Other-Than-Temporary Impairments herein and Note 7 to the Consolidated Financial Statements; and    
           foreign exchange transaction gains incurred in 2010 compared to losses in 2009 primarily resulting from the strengthening
of the U.S. dollar against the Euro and the British Pound compared to 2009.    

These
improvements were partially offset by lower gains from derivative instruments not designated for hedge accounting, particularly those used to hedge foreign exchange movements.   

Aircraft Leasing Revenue            

2011 and 2010 Comparison           

      Aircraft leasing revenue decreased slightly, primarily due to a reduction in ILFC's average fleet size resulting from sales of aircraft and the
impact of lower lease revenue earned on re-leased aircraft in its fleet. In 2011, ILFC had an average of 932 aircraft in its fleet, compared to 963 in 2010.   

2010 and 2009 Comparison           

      Aircraft leasing revenue decreased slightly due to a reduction in ILFC's average fleet size resulting from sales of aircraft and the impact of
lower lease rates on used aircraft. In 2010, ILFC had an average of 963 aircraft in its fleet, compared to 974 in 2009.   

Other Income            

2011 and 2010 Comparison           

      The decline in Other income for 2011 compared to 2010 was driven by:   

a decline of $559 million in credit valuation adjustment gains on Direct Investment book non-derivative
assets and liabilities;     
           a decline of $259 million in unrealized market valuation adjustment gains on the AIGFP super senior credit default
swap portfolio;     
           a decline of $172 million in unrealized market valuation adjustments on the AIGFP credit default swap contracts
referencing single-name exposures written on corporate, index and asset-backed credits, due to losses in 2011 compared to gains in 2010; and     
           a bargain purchase gain of $332 million recognized in the first quarter of 2010 related to the acquisition of Fuji,
which is further discussed in Note 5 to the Consolidated Financial Statements.    

These
declines were partially offset by significantly lower levels of real estate investment impairment charges in 2011.   

2010 and 2009 Comparison           

      The decline in Other income for 2010 compared to 2009 was driven by a decline of $1.0 billion and $975 million in credit valuation
adjustments on Direct Investment book non-derivative assets and liabilities and AIGFP derivative assets and liabilities, respectively, as well as a decline of $820 million in
unrealized market valuation adjustments on the AIGFP super senior credit default swap portfolio. This decline was partially offset by a bargain   

  66            AIG 2011 Form 10-K  

Table of Contents   

purchase
gain of $332 million related to the Fuji acquisition and reduced losses from AIGFP from lower unwind costs.   

Policyholder Benefits and Claims Incurred            

2011 and 2010 Comparison           

      Policyholder benefits and claims incurred decreased in 2011 compared to 2010 as a result of the following:   

a decline of $8.7 billion related to the deconsolidation of AIA; and     
           Chartis' $72 million of net reserve strengthening in 2011 compared to net strengthening of $4.3 billion in
2010.    

This
decline was partially offset by:   

increased catastrophe losses throughout the year, including the Thailand floods in the fourth quarter of 2011, Hurricane
Irene in the third quarter of 2011, the U.S. tornadoes in the second quarter of 2011, and the Tohoku Catastrophe in the first quarter of 2011;     
           the effect of Chartis' consolidation of Fuji;     
           increased claims and claims adjustment expenses for Mortgage Guaranty operations due to increased overturns of denied and
rescinded claims; and     
           increased claims at SunAmerica due to enhanced death benefit reserving practices.    

2010 and 2009 Comparison           

      Policyholder benefits and claims incurred decreased in 2010 primarily due to:   

a reduction of $2.2 billion as a result of the dispositions in 2009 noted above that did not meet the criteria for
discontinued operations accounting;     
           a decrease in incurred policy losses and benefit expenses for AIA of $1.3 billion related to a decline in
policyholder trading gains which are discussed above in Net Investment Income; and     
           a decrease in claims and claims adjustment expense of $2.4 billion for Mortgage Guaranty operations primarily due
to lower levels of newly reported delinquencies in the first-lien, second-lien and international products, higher cure rates on existing first-lien and
international delinquent loans and the recognition of stop loss limits on certain second-lien policies.    

Partially
offsetting these declines were:   

the net $4.3 billion of reserve strengthening in 2010 compared to reserve strengthening of $2.8 billion in
2009;     
           increased catastrophe losses for Chartis; and     
           the effect of the consolidation of Fuji in 2010.    

See
Segments Results   Chartis Operations   Chartis Results herein for further discussion.   

Amortization of Deferred Acquisition Costs            

2011 and 2010 Comparison           

      The decrease in Amortization of deferred acquisition costs in 2011 compared to 2010 resulted primarily from the deconsolidation of AIA in the
fourth quarter of 2010. The AIA amortization of deferred acquisition costs in 2010 totaled $977 million.   

  AIG 2011 Form 10-K            67  

Table of Contents   

2010 and 2009 Comparison           

      The decrease in Amortization of deferred acquisition costs in 2010 compared to 2009 primarily resulted from the dispositions of HSB,
21st Century, AIG Life Canada and Transatlantic in 2009 and from the decrease in amortization for SunAmerica related to improved equity market conditions.   

Other Acquisition and Insurance Expenses            

2011 and 2010 Comparison           

      Other acquisition and insurance expenses decreased in 2011 compared to 2010 as a result of the deconsolidation of AIA in the fourth quarter of
2010, partially offset by the consolidation of Fuji commencing in the third quarter of 2010. AIA other acquisition and insurance expenses in 2010 totaled $1.6 billion.   

2010 and 2009 Comparison           

      Other acquisition and insurance expenses decreased slightly in 2010 compared to 2009 as a result of a $1.0 billion decrease related to the
dispositions in 2009 noted above, partially offset by increased expenses at Chartis, primarily resulting from the consolidation of Fuji noted above.   

Interest Expense            

2011 and 2010 Comparison           

      Interest expense decreased in 2011 compared to 2010 primarily as a result of the repayment and termination of the FRBNY Credit Facility on
January 14, 2011. Interest expense on the FRBNY Credit Facility was $72 million in 2011 through the date of termination compared to $4.1 billion in 2010, including amortization of
the prepaid commitment fee asset of $48 million and $3.5 billion in 2011 and 2010, respectively. See Note 1 to the Consolidated Financial Statements for further discussion
regarding the repayment of the FRBNY Credit Facility in connection with the Recapitalization in January 2011.   

2010 and 2009 Comparison           

      Interest expense decreased in 2010 primarily due to lower interest expense on the FRBNY Credit Facility reflecting a reduced weighted average
interest rate on borrowings, a lower average outstanding balance and a decline in amortization of the prepaid commitment fee asset as set forth below.   

Aircraft Leasing Expenses            

      ILFC recorded impairment charges, fair value adjustments and lease-related charges of $1.7 billion in both 2011 and 2010 and charges of
$51 million in 2009. See Segment Results   Aircraft Leasing Operations   Aircraft Leasing Results for additional information.   

  68            AIG 2011 Form 10-K  

Table of Contents   

Net Loss on Extinguishment of Debt            

      The loss on extinguishment of debt for 2011 includes:   

a $3.3 billion charge primarily consisting of the accelerated amortization of the remaining prepaid commitment fee
asset resulting from the termination of the FRBNY Credit Facility, which is further discussed in Note 1 to the Consolidated Financial Statements; and     
           a $484 million gain on extinguishment related to the junior subordinated debt exchange in the fourth quarter of
2011.    

Net (Gain) Loss on Sale of Divested Businesses and Properties            

      Net (gain) loss on sale of divested businesses and properties includes the net (gain) loss on the sale of divested businesses that did not qualify
as discontinued operations as well as gains and losses from property disposals in connection with AIG's restructuring program.   

The
gain in 2010 primarily represents a gain of $16.3 billion on the sale of 67 percent of AIA, a gain of $228 million associated with the termination fee paid by
Prudential plc to AIG related to the termination of the agreement to purchase AIA and a $1.3 billion gain on the sale of the Otemachi building in Japan. See Segment
Results   Chartis Operations   Chartis Results   Chartis Other   Chartis Other Results herein for further information.   

Other Expenses            

2011 and 2010 Comparison           

      Other expenses decreased in 2011 compared to 2010 due to;    

lower securities-related litigation charges; and     
           lower restructuring charges.    

2010 and 2009 Comparison           

      Other expenses decreased in 2010 compared to 2009 due to:   

goodwill impairment charges of $612 million recorded in 2009 related to the Institutional Asset Management
business;     
           lower compensation-related costs for the Institutional Asset Management business, including the effect of deconsolidation
of certain portfolio investments and the sale of the Swiss bank; and     
           lower provisions for credit losses for consumer finance businesses not presented as discontinued operations.    

Income Taxes            

2011 Effective Tax Rate           

      For the year ended December 31, 2011, the effective tax rate on pretax loss from continuing operations was not meaningful, due to the
significant effect of releasing approximately $16.6 billion of the deferred tax asset valuation allowance. Other less significant factors that contributed to the difference from the statutory
rate included tax
benefits of $454 million associated with tax exempt interest income, $346 million associated with the effect of foreign operations, and $224 million associated with AIG's
investment in subsidiaries and partnerships   

2010 Effective Tax Rate           

      For the year ended December 31, 2010, the effective tax rate on pre-tax income from continuing operations was
32.7 percent. The effective tax rate for the year ended December 31, 2010, attributable to continuing operations   

  AIG 2011 Form 10-K            69  

Table of Contents   

differed
from the statutory rate primarily due to tax benefits of $1.3 billion associated with AIG's investment in subsidiaries and partnerships, principally the AIA SPV which is treated as a
partnership for U.S. tax purposes, and $587 million associated with tax exempt interest, partially offset by an increase in the valuation allowance attributable to continuing operations of
$1.5 billion.   

2009 Effective Tax Rate           

      For the year ended December 31, 2009, the effective tax rate on the pre-tax loss from continuing operations was
10.4 percent. The effective tax rate on the pre-tax loss from continuing operations for the year ended December 31, 2009, differed from the statutory rate primarily due to
increases in the valuation allowance of $3.1 billion and reserve for uncertain tax positions of $874 million, partially offset by tax exempt interest of $677 million and the
change in investment in subsidiaries and partnerships of $473 million which was principally related to changes in the estimated U.S. tax liability with respect to sales of subsidiaries.   

See
Critical Accounting Estimates   Recoverability of Deferred Tax Asset herein and Note 22 to the Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information.   

Discontinued Operations            

Income (loss) from Discontinued Operations is comprised of the following:            

Significant items affecting the comparison of results from discontinued operations included the following:   

a pre-tax gain of $2.0 billion on the sale of AIG Star and AIG Edison in 2011;    
           impairments of goodwill in 2010 of $4.6 billion related to ALICO, AIG Star and AIG Edison. See Note 2(j) to
the Consolidated Financial Statements for further discussion;     
           a pre-tax gain of $4.1 billion on the sale of ALICO in 2010;     
           a pre-tax loss of approximately $1.7 billion on the sale of AGF in 2010;     
           a pre-tax loss of $2.8 billion recognized in 2009 related to the sale of Nan Shan, as well as an
additional loss on sale of $874 million recognized in 2010; and     
           tax effects of the above transactions, notably the impact of non-deductible goodwill impairments and the
change in investment in subsidiaries, which was principally related to changes in the estimated U.S. tax liability with respect to the planned sales.    

See
Notes 4 and 22 to the Consolidated Financial Statements for further discussion of discontinued operations.   

  70            AIG 2011 Form 10-K  

Table of Contents   

SEGMENT RESULTS   

      AIG presents and discusses its financial information in the following manner, which it believes is most meaningful to its financial statement
users. AIG analyzes the operating performance of its segments as follows:   

Chartis   underwriting profit (loss), which is derived by reducing net premiums earned by claims and
claims adjustment expenses incurred and underwriting expenses, and is before net investment income, net realized capital gains (losses), bargain purchase gain and other income
(expense)   net;     
           SunAmerica and Aircraft Leasing   Operating income (loss), which is before net realized capital gains
(losses) and related DAC and SIA amortization; and     
           Results from discontinued operations and net gains (losses) on sales of divested businesses are excluded from these
measures.    

AIG
believes that these measures allow for a better assessment and enhanced understanding of the operating performance of each business by highlighting the results from ongoing
operations and the underlying profitability of its businesses. When such measures are disclosed, reconciliations to GAAP pre-tax income are provided.   

In
order to align financial reporting with changes made during 2011 to the manner in which AIG's chief operating decision makers review the businesses to assess performance and make
decisions about resources to be allocated, AIG changed its segments in the third quarter of 2011. See Note 3 to the Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information on AIG's segment
changes.   

      Prior
period amounts were reclassified to conform to the current period presentation for the above items. Additionally, certain other reclassifications have been made to prior period
amounts in the Consolidated Statement of Operations and Consolidated Balance Sheet to conform to the current period presentation.   

   The following table summarizes the operations of each reportable segment. See also Note 3 to the Consolidated Financial Statements.   

Chartis Operations       

      Chartis is a leading property-casualty and general insurance organization with over 44,000 employees serving more than 70 million clients
around the world. During 2011, Chartis completed a reorganization of its operations and now presents its financial information in two operating segments   Commercial Insurance and
Consumer Insurance   as well as a Chartis Other operations category. Previously, Chartis presented its financial information   

  AIG 2011 Form 10-K            71  

Table of Contents   

under
Chartis U.S. and Chartis International. Prior period amounts have been reclassified to conform to the current year presentation.   

As
previously noted, AIG presents and discusses its financial information in a manner it believes is most meaningful to its financial statement users. AIG analyzes the operating
performance of Chartis using underwriting profit (loss) and pre-tax income (loss). Underwriting profit (loss) is derived by reducing net premiums earned by claims and claims adjustment
expenses incurred and underwriting expenses. Net premiums written are initially deferred and earned based upon the terms of the underlying policies for short duration contracts. The unearned premium
reserve constitutes deferred revenues which are generally recognized in earnings ratably over the policy period. Net premiums written for long duration contracts are earned when due from the
policyholder. Net premiums written reflect the premiums retained after purchasing reinsurance protection.   

Chartis,
along with most property and casualty insurance companies, uses the loss ratio, the expense ratio and the combined ratio as measures of underwriting performance. The loss ratio
is the sum of claims and claims adjustment expenses incurred divided by net premiums earned. The expense ratio is underwriting expenses, which consist of acquisition costs plus other insurance
expenses, divided by net premiums earned. The combined ratio is the sum of the loss ratio and the expense ratio. These ratios are relative measurements that describe, for every $100 of net premiums
earned, the amount of claims and claims adjustment expenses, and other underwriting expenses that would be incurred. A combined ratio of less than 100 indicates an underwriting profit and over 100
indicates an underwriting loss.   

      The
underwriting environment varies across countries and products, as does the degree of litigation activity, all of which affect such ratios. In addition, investment returns, local
taxes, cost of capital, regulation, product type and competition can have an effect on pricing and consequently on profitability as reflected in underwriting profit and associated ratios.   

      Chartis
will continue to assess the performance of its operating segments based in part on underwriting profit, loss ratio, expense ratio and combined ratio. Chartis believes these
metrics provide long-term measures of the performance of the business compared to historical results and peer companies. In addition, Chartis is developing new value based metrics that
provide management shorter-term measures to evaluate its
performance across multiple lines and various countries. As an example, Chartis has implemented a risk-adjusted profitability model as a business performance measure, which it will
continue to refine. Along with underwriting results, this risk-adjusted profitability model incorporates elements of capital allocations, costs of capital and net investment income.
Chartis believes that such performance measures will allow it to manage changes in its business mix.   

      Investment
income is allocated to the Commercial Insurance and Consumer Insurance segments based on an internal investment income allocation model. The model estimates investable funds
based upon the loss reserves, unearned premium and a capital allocation for each segment. The investment income allocation is calculated based on the estimated investable funds and
risk-free yields (plus an illiquidity premium) consistent with the approximate duration of the liabilities. The actual yields in excess of the allocated amounts and the investment income
from the assets not attributable to the Commercial Insurance and Consumer Insurance segments are assigned to Chartis Other.   

      For
the year ended December 31, 2011, results reflect the effects of the full year of Fuji operations, while the corresponding 2010 period reflects the effects of Fuji for only
two quarters, because Chartis began consolidating Fuji's operating results on July 1, 2010. Fuji operations primarily relate to Consumer Insurance.   

72            AIG 2011 Form 10-K  

Table of Contents   

Chartis Results      

The following table presents Chartis results:            

*       Includes gain on divested properties of $669 million in 2010.      

2011 and 2010 Comparison            

Chartis recognized pre-tax income in 2011 compared to a pre-tax loss in 2010 primarily due to the decrease in
the loss ratio, partially offset by the effect of increased catastrophe losses in 2011, detailed as follows:   

Net prior year adverse loss development, net of premiums and loss-sensitive premium adjustments, decreased
from $4.3 billion in 2010 to $72 million in 2011.     
           The combined ratio declined to 109.0 in 2011 from 116.8 in 2010. Catastrophe losses were $3.3 billion in 2011
compared to $1.1 billion in 2010. The combined ratio, excluding catastrophe losses, was 99.8 in 2011, compared to 113.5 in 2010, a 13.7 point improvement.     
           Net realized capital gains on sales of fixed maturity securities increased in connection with Chartis' strategy to better
align investment allocations with current overall performance and income tax planning objectives.    

Also,
Chartis realized an increase in net premiums written primarily related to the acquisition of Fuji, which Chartis began consolidating on July 1, 2010, and in the Commercial
Insurance property lines, which experienced improved pricing and modifications to its reinsurance program.   

2010 and 2009 Comparison            

      Chartis reported a pre-tax loss in 2010 compared to pre-tax income in 2009 primarily due to the increase in the
net prior year adverse loss development, net of premiums and loss-sensitive premium adjustments, from $2.8 billion in 2009 to $4.3 billion in 2010. In addition, catastrophe
losses increased by $1.0 billion. These were partially offset by an increase in net premiums written, primarily related to the Fuji acquisition, as well as improved market conditions and the
impact of gains in 2010 related to the acquisition of Fuji and the sale of the Otemachi Building.   

Chartis Net Premiums Written            

      Net premiums written are the sales of an insurer, adjusted for reinsurance premiums assumed and ceded, during a given period. Net
premiums earned are the revenue of an insurer for covering risk during a given period. Net premiums written are a measure of performance for a sales period while net premiums earned are a measure of
performance for a coverage period. From the period in which the premiums are written until the period in which they are recognized, the amount is part of the unearned premium reserve.   

  AIG 2011 Form 10-K            73  

Table of Contents    

   The following table presents Chartis net premiums written by major line of business:     

The following table presents the effect of the acquisition of Fuji on Chartis net premiums written:   

*       For the year ended December 31, 2011, results reflect the effects of the full year of Fuji operations, while the corresponding 2010 period reflects the
effects of Fuji for only two quarters, because Chartis began consolidating Fuji's operating results on July 1, 2010.      

2011 and 2010 Comparison      

      Chartis' net premiums written increased in 2011 compared to 2010 due to the Fuji acquisition, the improvement in foreign currency
exchange rates, primarily in the Japanese Yen, and further growth in the strategic higher value lines of business. These increases were partially offset by the decline in Commercial Casualty business
in 2011 and more specifically the effects of risk management initiatives in workers' compensation and certain other lines of business in Chartis. They also reflect Chartis' continued commitment to
maintain price discipline in lines where market rates are unsatisfactory. Excluding the effects of the Fuji acquisition, Chartis' net premiums written increased in 2011 by 3.4 percent compared
to 2010.   

      The
year ended December 31, 2011 reflects net premiums written related to Fuji of $4.0 billion compared to $1.7 billion in 2010. The year ended December 31,
2011 also reflects the effects of overall improvements in ratable exposures (i.e., asset values, payrolls and sales), general pricing improvement and retrospective premium adjustments on
loss-sensitive contracts.   

  74            AIG 2011 Form 10-K  

Table of Contents   

      Chartis
has continued a strategy that started in 2010 to improve the allocation of its reinsurance between traditional reinsurance markets and capital markets. As part of this strategy,
Chartis has secured $1.45 billion in protection for U.S. hurricanes and earthquakes through three separate catastrophe bond transactions. In 2011, Chartis secured $575 million in a bond
transaction and in 2010, $875 million through two separate bond transactions. These bond transactions in 2011 and 2010 reduced net premiums written by approximately $201 million and
$208 million, respectively.   

      Growing
higher value Consumer business continues to be a key strategy. Total Consumer Insurance net premiums written increased 21 percent for the year ended December 31,
2011 compared to 2010. Excluding the effects of foreign exchange and the Fuji acquisition, Consumer Insurance net premiums written declined by one percent, primarily due to the non-renewal
of certain programs in the U.S. and Canada region that did not meet internal performance targets.   

      In
2011, management implemented certain initiatives designed to provide for a more effective use of capital, including:   

restructuring the renewals of certain Commercial Casualty loss-sensitive programs from a retrospectively rated premium
structure to a loss reimbursement deductible structure; and    
           the decision to cease writing excess workers' compensation business as a stand-alone product.    

The
effect of these actions decreased premiums in 2011 by approximately $0.6 billion. However, given the capital intensive nature of these classes of casualty business, Chartis
expects that over time, these actions will improve its results.   

     2010 and 2009 Comparison      

      Chartis' net premiums written increased in 2010 compared to 2009, primarily due to the Fuji acquisition and, to a lesser extent,
strategic growth in higher value lines of business. Excluding the effects of the Fuji transaction, Chartis' net premiums written decreased in 2010 by 2.6 percent compared to 2009. This decrease
is primarily due to declines in Commercial businesses in the U.S. and other developed markets, as well as the effects of risk management initiatives in the U.S. and Canada region designed to reduce
catastrophe-exposed business in property and overall exposure in Chartis' long-tail casualty lines. The decrease also reflects Chartis' commitment to maintain price discipline in lines
where market rates are unsatisfactory, as well as overall rate declines and a decline in ratable exposures such as workers' compensation.   

Further,
during 2010, Chartis entered into two separate three-year reinsurance transactions, secured through the issuance of catastrophe bonds, which provide protection from
U.S. hurricanes and earthquakes, and reduced 2010 net premiums written by approximately $208 million.   

   AIG transacts business in most major foreign currencies. The following table summarizes the effect of changes in foreign currency exchange rates on Chartis net premiums
written:   

*       Computed using a constant exchange rate for each period.      

AIG 2011 Form 10-K            75  

Table of Contents   

Chartis Underwriting Ratios            

   The following table summarizes the Chartis combined ratios based on GAAP data and the impact of catastrophe losses, prior year development and related reinstatement premiums
and premium adjustments on loss-sensitive contracts on the Chartis consolidated loss and combined ratios:   

Loss Ratios      

   The following table presents the components of net prior year adverse development for Chartis:     

The decrease in the loss ratio for 2011 compared to 2010 reflects the substantial decrease in the net prior year loss development, net of premiums
and loss-sensitive premium adjustments in 2011 as shown in the table above and to a lesser extent the improvement in foreign currency exchange rates. The decrease in the loss ratio was partially
offset by the effect of increased catastrophe losses in 2011 compared to 2010.   

      This
decrease in the adjusted 2011 loss ratio was partially due to the effect of the Fuji acquisition offset by an increase in the 2011 accident year loss ratio for the Specialty
Workers' Compensation and Excess Casualty business (within the U.S. and Canada region) and the Primary Casualty and Professional Indemnity businesses (within the Europe region).   

      The
2011 net adverse loss development charge of $72 million, primarily relates to the primary casualty, workers' compensation, and environmental business lines, partially offset
by the net favorable loss development in the financial lines and excess casualty lines.   

      The
loss ratio for Chartis increased in 2010 compared to 2009, primarily as a result of the net adverse loss development for prior accident years recorded in 2010.   

      Approximately
80 percent of the 2010 net prior year adverse loss development charge of $4.3 billion relates to the asbestos, excess casualty, excess workers' compensation,
and primary workers' compensation lines. Further, 83 percent of this charge relates to accident years 2007 and prior (accident years before the financial crisis in 2008) and 65 percent
relates to accident years 2005 and prior (accident years prior to the start of the managed reduction in these long-tail lines of business).   

  76            AIG 2011 Form 10-K  

Table of Contents   

      Most
of the 2009 net adverse loss development charge of $2.8 billion relates to excess casualty, excess workers' compensation and the asbestos lines of business. Further,
approximately 95 percent relates to accident years 2005 and prior.   

      Writings
in long-tail lines of business that were the drivers of the reserve charges in 2010 and 2009 have been reduced since 2006. In the case of asbestos, since 1985,
standard policies have contained an absolute exclusion for asbestos and pollution-related damages.   

The following table presents Chartis catastrophe losses by major event:     

(a)       Events shown in the above table are catastrophic events, for which the net impact to Chartis is in excess of $200 million each. All other events
include 13 events in 2010 and 14 events in 2011 that are considered catastrophic but the net impact of which remains below the $200 million itemization threshold. Catastrophe losses for 2009
are not presented above as there was one significant catastrophe event, flooding in the Southwestern United States, totaling $53 million for Commercial
Insurance.   
       (b)      On March 11, 2011, a major earthquake occurred near the northeast coast of Honshu, Japan, triggering a tsunami in the Pacific
Ocean. This disaster is referred to as the Tohoku Catastrophe.    

     Expense Ratios      

      The expense ratio decreased in 2011 compared to 2010, primarily due to the effect of including Fuji results for a full year and the
effects of foreign exchange. These decreases were partially offset by Chartis' increased investments in a number of strategic initiatives during 2011, including the implementation of improved regional
governance and risk management capabilities, the implementation of global accounting and claims systems, preparation for Solvency II and certain other legal entity restructuring initiatives.   

      The
expense ratio increased in 2010 compared to 2009 primarily due to Chartis' strategy to continue the enhancement and build-out of its financial systems. In addition,
during 2010 Chartis recorded increased expenses relating to long-term incentive programs that will continue to align employee performance incentive programs with profitability, capital
management, risk management, and other performance measures. Further, increased acquisition expenses reflect increased regulatory assessments, more specifically in the workers' compensation lines, and
new marketing agreements with select strategic distribution partners. These increases were partially offset by an overall decline in the expense ratio relating to the acquisition of Fuji.   

Chartis Investing and Other Results            

      Chartis manages and accounts for its invested assets on a legal entity basis in conformity with regulatory requirements. Within a legal
entity, invested assets are available to pay claims and expenses of both Commercial Insurance and Consumer Insurance operating segments as well as Chartis Other. Invested assets are not segregated or
otherwise separately identified for the Commercial and Consumer Insurance operating segments.   

  AIG 2011 Form 10-K            77  

Table of Contents   

      As
discussed earlier, investment income is allocated to the Commercial Insurance and Consumer Insurance segments based on an internal investment income allocation model. See Segment
Results   Chartis Operations for more information.   

   The following table presents Chartis investing and other results:     

*       Includes gain on divested properties of $669 million in 2010.      

2011 and 2010 Comparison      

        Net investment income:        Overall in 2011, net investment income decreased slightly due to declines in private equity and hedge fund income as well as
increases in investment expenses. These decreases were largely offset by increases in interest income. The decrease in private equity and hedge fund income reflects the decline in the overall equity
markets during the second half of 2011. The increase in investment expenses in 2011 resulted mainly from increases in both internal and external investment management fees. The interest income
increase relates to the redeployment of cash and short term instruments into longer term, higher yield securities. In addition, 2011 reflects a full year of interest income related to Fuji, which has
been consolidated by Chartis since July 1, 2010.   

         Net realized capital gains (losses):        Increases are due to gains on the sales of fixed maturity securities in connection with the strategy discussed
above to better align Chartis' investment allocations with current overall performance and income tax objectives; a decrease in other-than-temporary impairment charges; gains
from improvements in foreign currency exchange rates, primarily the strengthening of the Japanese Yen against the U.S. Dollar; and gains from derivative instruments that do not qualify for hedge
accounting, resulting primarily from declining long term interest rates. These derivative instruments economically hedge products that provide benefits over an extended period of time.   

      These
gains were partially offset by impairments recognized within other invested assets, primarily life settlement contracts. For the year ended December 31, 2011 and 2010,
impairment charges of $351 million and $78 million, respectively, were recorded by Chartis related to life settlement contracts, including approximately $38 million and
$4 million of impairments, respectively, associated with life insurance policies issued by SunAmerica life insurance companies that are eliminated in consolidation. Life settlement contracts
are evaluated for impairment on a contract-by-contract basis. A contract is identified as potentially impaired if its undiscounted future net cash flows are less than the
current carrying value of such contract. Life settlement contracts are impaired, and written down to fair value, when the carrying value of the contract is greater than the estimated fair value.   

      During
2011, Chartis began receiving updated medical information for its life settlement contracts as a result of an enhanced process in which information on individual insured lives is
requested on a routine basis. In cases where updated information indicates that an individual's health has improved, an impairment loss may arise as a result of revised estimates of net cash flows
from the related contract. This had the general effect of decreasing the projected net cash flows on a number of contracts, resulting in an increase in the number of contracts identified as
potentially impaired when compared to previous analyses. Further, the domestic operations of Chartis refined their fair values based upon the availability of recent medical information.   

         Bargain purchase gain:        On March 31, 2010 Chartis purchased additional voting shares in Fuji which resulted in the effective control and
consolidation of Fuji. This acquisition resulted in a bargain purchase gain of $0.3 billion, which was included in the Consolidated Statement of Income (Loss) in Other Income. The bargain
purchase gain is primarily attributable to the depressed market value of Fuji's common stock, which Chartis believes was the result of macro-economic, capital market and regulatory factors in Japan
coupled with Fuji's financial condition and results of operations. Chartis anticipates that the bargain purchase gain will not be subject to U.S. or foreign income tax because the gain would only be
recognized for tax purposes upon the sale of the Fuji shares.   

  78            AIG 2011 Form 10-K  

Table of Contents    

         Other income (expense)   net:        In May 2009, AIG completed the legal sale of its interest in the Otemachi Building in Japan,
including the land and development rights. The transaction initially did not qualify as a sale for accounting purposes at that time, due to AIG's continued involvement with the property, which did not
end until December 2010. As a result, AIG recognized a gain of approximately $1.3 billion in pre-tax income, of which $669 million was included in the Chartis results in
2010.   

     2010 and 2009 Comparison      

         Net investment income:        The increase in 2010 was primarily the result of an increase in the value of partnership investments as market conditions
improved in 2010, while 2009 included losses from an equity method investment.   

        Net realized capital losses:        Net realized capital losses for Chartis declined in 2010 compared to 2009 due to increased gains on sales of fixed
maturity and equity securities and lower other-than-temporary impairment charges as market conditions continued to improve.   

         Bargain purchase gain:        During 2010, Chartis recognized a bargain purchase gain of $332 million in connection with the acquisition of Fuji.

Other income (expense)   net:        Represents the Chartis portion of the gain on the sale of AIG's Otemachi Building in Japan.   

      See
Consolidated Results for further discussion on net investment income and net realized capital gains (losses).   

Commercial Insurance            

     Commercial Insurance Results      

   The following table presents Commercial Insurance results:   

Commercial Insurance Net Premiums Written     

Commercial Insurance business is transacted in most major foreign currencies. The following table summarizes the effect of changes in foreign currency exchange rates on the
growth of Commercial Insurance net premiums written:   

*       Computed using a constant exchange rate for each period.      

AIG 2011 Form 10-K            79  

Table of Contents   

2011 and 2010 Comparison       

      Commercial
Insurance net premiums written increased in 2011 compared to 2010 primarily due to:   

increases in Property lines driven by positive pricing trends and reinsurance modifications resulting in increased
retentions; the rate environment for Property has been particularly strong for the U.S. and the Far East region;     
           an increase in additional premiums on Commercial Casualty's loss-sensitive business of $164 million
compared to 2010. Loss-sensitive business relates to policies whose premiums vary with the level of underlying losses. Accordingly, in 2011, additional premiums of $172 million were
recognized relating to additional prior year losses. The corresponding 2010 period reflects the effects of additional premiums of $8 million;     
           general improvements in rates, in particular for workers' compensation;     
           continued growth and market penetration across growth economy nations; and     
           improvements in foreign exchange currency rates.    

Offsetting
these increases was an approximately $0.6 billion decrease in net premiums written relating to the change of certain policy forms at renewal from retrospectively rated
premium structures to loss reimbursement deductible structures.   

2010 and 2009 Comparison       

      Commercial
Insurance net premiums written decreased in 2010 compared to 2009 primarily due to:   

risk management initiatives resulting in the reduction of aggregate exposures in certain Commercial Casualty, Property and
Specialty lines of business;     
           lower workers' compensation net premiums written due to declining rates, lower employment levels, increased competition
and Chartis' continued strategy to maintain price discipline;     
           decreases in Financial lines due to declines in various classes of professional liability business, which were negatively
affected to a greater extent than other classes by the credit crisis, and Chartis' decisions to reduce writings within environmental coverage and not to renew a credit card indemnification program
that did not meet internal profitability targets;     
           decreases in Commercial Casualty due to a combination of declines in the construction, real estate and transportation
classes and limited availability of capital for new projects, which impacted general liability and commercial umbrella business. These were offset by improved pricing, increased new business
submissions and improved retention resulting from increased stabilization of developed economies after the financial crisis that began in 2008; and    
           effects of three-year reinsurance agreements, secured through catastrophe bonds, which provided protection
from U.S. hurricanes and earthquakes, and reduced 2010 net premiums written by approximately $208 million.    

80            AIG 2011 Form 10-K  

Table of Contents   

    Commercial Insurance Underwriting Ratios     

   The following table presents the Commercial Insurance combined ratios based on GAAP data and the impact of catastrophe losses, prior year development and related reinstatement
premiums and premium adjustments on loss-sensitive contracts on the Commercial Insurance consolidated loss and combined ratios:   

The following table presents the components of net prior year adverse development for Commercial Insurance:   

Loss Ratios       

      The
loss ratio improved in 2011 compared to 2010 due to the effect of net prior year adverse loss development in 2010 and an increase in additional premiums
from loss-sensitive business in 2011. These items were largely offset by the increase in catastrophe losses in 2011.   

The
loss ratio increased in 2010 compared to 2009 primarily due to the net prior year adverse loss development in 2010 for the excess casualty and workers' compensation lines of
business.   

      For
a more detailed discussion of Net Prior Year Loss Development, see the Liability for Unpaid Claims and Claims Adjustment Expense section that follows.   

Expense Ratios       

      The
expense ratio improved in 2011 compared to 2010 due to the effects of foreign currency exchange rates and overall growth in the business. In addition, the
expense ratio reflects the effects of continued enhancements to regional governance, risk management capabilities and investments within growth economy nations.   

The
expense ratio increased in 2010 compared to 2009 due to a change in the mix of business from low commission casualty business to higher commission property business. In addition, the
increase in general operating expenses reflects Chartis' strategy to continue the enhancement and build-out of its financial systems. Further, during 2010, Chartis recorded increased
expenses relating to long-term incentive programs that will continue to align employee performance incentive programs with profitability, capital management, risk management, and other
performance measures   

  AIG 2011 Form 10-K            81  

Table of Contents   

Consumer Insurance            

     Consumer Insurance Results      

   The following table presents Consumer Insurance results:     

Consumer Insurance Net Premiums Written     

2011 and 2010 comparison       

      Consumer
Insurance net premiums written increased in 2011 compared to 2010 primarily due to the effect of including Fuji results for a full year, the
improvement in foreign currency exchange rates, primarily the Japanese Yen, and further growth in the strategic higher value lines of business. Excluding the effects of the Fuji acquisition, Consumer
Insurance net premiums written increased 3 percent in 2011, primarily due to:   

A H net premiums written increased by approximately 10 percent. Excluding the effects of the Fuji acquisition, A H
net premiums written increased by approximately seven percent primarily as a result of the execution of Chartis' growth strategies in key lines and the effect of foreign exchange. The Far East region
continued to implement favorable marketing programs and benefited from rate increases implemented in 2010. Growth was also demonstrated in key geographic markets such as Asia Pacific, including China,
EMEA, including Continental Europe, and Israel, and in targeted areas, such as direct marketing and travel insurance.     
           Personal Lines net premiums written increased by approximately 25 percent. Excluding the effects of the Fuji
acquisition, Personal Lines net premiums decreased one percent, primarily as a result of Chartis' decisions to not renew certain programs in the U.S. and Canada region that did not meet performance
targets. Personal Lines continued to grow in key markets, including Japan and Latin America and in key lines, such as specialized personal lines products.     
           Life net premiums written increased primarily as a result of the full year effect of the Fuji acquisition and as a result
of the execution of new business strategies at Fuji Life Insurance Company Ltd.    

2010 and 2009 comparison       

Consumer
Insurance net premiums written increased in 2010 compared to 2009 primarily due to the acquisition of Fuji.   

  82            AIG 2011 Form 10-K  

Table of Contents   

Consumer Insurance is transacted in most major foreign currencies. The following table summarizes the effect of changes in foreign currency exchange rates on the growth of
Consumer Insurance net premiums written:   

(a)       Computed using a constant exchange rate for each period.   
       (b)      Primarily due to the effect of the Fuji acquisition.    

Consumer Insurance Underwriting Ratios     

   The following table presents the Consumer Insurance combined ratios based on GAAP data and the impact of catastrophe losses, prior year development and related reinstatement
premiums and premium adjustments on loss-sensitive contracts on the Consumer Insurance consolidated loss and combined ratios:   

The following table presents the components of net prior year adverse development for Consumer Insurance:   

Loss Ratios       

      The
loss ratio increased in 2011 compared to 2010, primarily due to increased catastrophe losses in 2011. During 2011, Consumer Insurance recorded net prior
year adverse loss development of $86 million, primarily due to programs in the U.S. and Canada region that are not being renewed. This compares to net prior year favorable loss development of
$66 million in 2010.   

      The
increase in the loss ratio in 2010 compared to 2009 reflects the effect of Fuji in 2010 and increased claims in Japan and Europe. In 2010, Consumer Insurance recorded favorable net
prior year loss development of $66 million primarily due to favorable development in the Asia Pacific region. This compares to net prior year adverse loss development in 2009 of
$75 million primarily due to reserve development in Japan and Latin America.   

      For
a more detailed discussion of Net Prior Year Loss Development, see the Liability for Unpaid Claims and Claims Adjustment Expense section that follows.   

  AIG 2011 Form 10-K            83  

Table of Contents   

Expense Ratios       

      The
expense ratio decreased in 2011 compared to 2010 primarily due to the effects of including Fuji results for a full year. Fuji has a lower average expense
ratio than the rest of the Consumer Insurance business due in part to its business mix.   

The
expense ratio decreased in 2010 compared to 2009 primarily due to the net benefit from Fuji net deferred acquisition costs, which were capitalized subsequent to the Fuji acquisition.   

Chartis Other            

Chartis Other Results      

The following table presents Chartis Other results:            

*       Includes gain on divested properties of $669 million in 2010.      

The following table presents the components of net prior year adverse development for Chartis Other:   

Underwriting Results      

      Substantially all of the net premiums written in the above table relate to excess workers' compensation. The excess workers'
compensation line of business is subject to premium audits (upon the expiration of the underlying policy) and, as a result, Chartis Other will reflect the effects of premium audit activity through
subsequent years.   

      Given
the run-off nature of the legacy lines of business and the nature of the expenses included in Chartis Other, management has determined that traditional underwriting
measures of loss ratio, expense ratio and combined ratio do not provide an appropriate measure of underwriting performance. Therefore, underwriting ratios are not presented for Chartis Other.   

    2011 and 2010 Comparison     

      For the year 2011 compared to 2010, the decrease in net premiums written and claims and claim adjustment expenses reflect the effects
of the run-off activities associated with the excess workers' compensation business,   

84            AIG 2011 Form 10-K  

Table of Contents   

while
the underwriting expenses increased as a result of certain expenses related to corporate initiatives and expense allocations of AIG Parent.   

    2010 and 2009 Comparison     

      For the year 2010 compared to 2009, the increase in claims and claim adjustment expenses incurred relates to net prior year adverse
loss development in 2010.   

      The
overall increase in underwriting expenses relates to increases for strategic Chartis initiatives, including global accounting and claims system implementations, Solvency II and
certain other legal entity restructuring initiatives.   

      For
a discussion of Investing and other results for Chartis Other, see Chartis Results   Chartis Investing and Other Results.   

Liability for Unpaid Claims and Claims Adjustment Expense           

The following discussion of the consolidated liability for unpaid claims and claims adjustment expenses (loss reserves) presents loss reserves for
Chartis as well as the loss reserves pertaining to the Mortgage Guaranty reporting unit, which is reported in AIG's Other operations category.   

The following table presents the components of AIG's gross loss reserves by major lines of business on a statutory
basis    *    :   

*       Presented by lines of business pursuant to statutory reporting requirements as prescribed by the National Association of Insurance
Commissioners.    

AIG's gross loss reserves represent the accumulation of estimates of ultimate losses, including estimates for IBNR and loss expenses. The methods
used to determine loss reserve estimates and to establish the resulting reserves
are continually reviewed and updated. Any adjustments resulting from this review are currently reflected in pre-tax income. Because loss reserve estimates are subject to the outcome of
future events, changes in estimates are unavoidable given that loss trends vary and time is often required for changes in trends to be recognized and confirmed. Reserve changes that increase previous
estimates of ultimate cost are referred to as unfavorable or adverse development or reserve strengthening. Reserve changes that decrease previous estimates of ultimate cost are referred to as
favorable development.   

      The
net loss reserves represent loss reserves reduced by reinsurance recoverables, net of an allowance for unrecoverable reinsurance and applicable discount for future investment income.   

  AIG 2011 Form 10-K            85  

Table of Contents   

   The following table classifies the components of net loss reserves by business unit:     

*       In 2011, the net loss reserves reflect the cession under the June 17, 2011 transaction with National Indemnity Company (NICO) of $1.7 billion.
See Liability for Unpaid Claims and Claims Adjustment Expense   Asbestos and Environmental Reserve for additional discussion of the NICO transaction.    

Discounting of Reserves            

      At December 31, 2011, net loss reserves reflect a loss reserve discount of $3.18 billion, including tabular and
non-tabular calculations. The tabular workers' compensation discount is calculated using a 3.5 percent interest rate and the 1979 - 81 Decennial Mortality Table. The
non-tabular workers' compensation discount is calculated separately for companies domiciled in New York and Pennsylvania, and follows the statutory regulations for each state. For New York
companies, the discount is based on a five percent interest rate and the companies' own payout patterns. For Pennsylvania companies, the statute has specified discount factors for accident years 2001
and prior, which are based on a six percent interest rate and an industry payout pattern. For accident years 2002 and subsequent, the discount is based on the payout patterns and investment yields of
the companies. Beginning in 2011, a portion of these discounted reserves were ceded to a new Pennsylvania domiciled AIG subsidiary. However, this had no impact on the calculation of the overall
discount. Certain other asbestos business that was written by Chartis is discounted based on the investment yields of the companies and the payout pattern for this business. The discount consists of
the following: $777 million   tabular discount for workers' compensation in the U.S. and Canada operations of Chartis and $2.32 billion  
non-tabular discount for workers' compensation in the U.S. and Canada operations of Chartis; and $88 million   non-tabular discount for asbestos for
Chartis.   

Results of the Reserving Process            

      AIG believes that its net loss reserves are adequate to cover net losses and loss expenses as of December 31, 2011. While AIG
regularly reviews the adequacy of established loss reserves, there can be no assurance that AIG's ultimate loss reserves will not develop adversely and materially exceed AIG's loss reserves as of
December 31, 2011. In the opinion of management, such adverse development and resulting increase in reserves are not likely to have a material adverse effect on AIG's consolidated financial
condition, although such events could have a material adverse effect on AIG's consolidated results of operations for an individual reporting period. See Item 1A. Risk
Factors   Casualty Insurance Reserves.   

  86            AIG 2011 Form 10-K  

Table of Contents    

The following table presents the rollforward of net loss reserves:            

(a)       Represents the acquisition of Fuji on March 31, 2010.
         (b)       Transatlantic was deconsolidated during the second quarter of 2009, 21st Century was sold in the third quarter of 2009, and HSB was sold during the
first quarter of 2009.   
       (c)      Includes amounts related to dispositions through the date of disposition.
         (d)       In 2011, includes $(414) million, $145 million and $413 million related to excess casualty, commercial specialty workers' compensation
and environmental, respectively. In 2010, includes $1.1 billion, $793 million and $1.5 billion related to excess casualty, excess workers' compensation and asbestos, respectively.
In 2009, includes $1.5 billion, $956 million and $151 million related to excess casualty, excess workers' compensation and asbestos, respectively.      

The following tables summarize development, (favorable) or unfavorable, of incurred losses and loss expenses for prior years (other than
accretion of discount):   

*       Includes Transatlantic which was deconsolidated during the second quarter of 2009, 21st Century was sold in the third quarter of 2009 and HSB was sold
during the first quarter of 2009.    

AIG 2011 Form 10-K            87  

Table of Contents   

Offsetting the unfavorable development were related additional premiums on loss-sensitive business of $172 million and
$8 million in 2011 and 2010, respectively.   

      In
determining the loss development from prior accident years, AIG conducts analysis to determine the change in estimated ultimate loss for each accident year for each class of business.
For example, if loss emergence for a class of business is different than expected for certain accident years, the actuaries examine the indicated effect such emergence would have on the reserves of
that class of business. In some cases, the higher or lower than expected emergence may result in no clear change in the ultimate loss estimate for the accident years in question, and no adjustment
would be made to the reserves for the class of business for prior accident years. In other cases, the higher or lower than expected emergence may result in a larger change, either favorable or
unfavorable, than the difference between the actual and expected loss emergence. Such additional analyses were conducted for each class of business, as appropriate, in 2011 to determine the loss
development from prior accident years for that period. As part of its reserving process, AIG also considers notices of claims received with respect to emerging and/or evolving issues, such as those
related to the U.S. mortgage and housing market.   

      See
Chartis Results herein and Other Operations   Other Operations Results   Mortgage Guaranty for further discussion of net loss development.   

     Net Loss Development by Class of Business      

      The following is a discussion of the primary reasons for the development in 2011, 2010 and 2009 of those classes of business that
experienced significant prior accident year developments during the three-year period. See Asbestos and Environmental Reserves below for a further discussion of asbestos and environmental
reserves and development on pre-1985 exposures.   

  88            AIG 2011 Form 10-K  

Table of Contents   

    Excess Casualty     

Excess Casualty Background       

      Loss
reserves pertaining to the excess casualty class of business are generally included in the other liability occurrence line of business, with a small
portion of the excess casualty reserves included in the Other liability claims made line of business, as presented in the loss reserves by major lines of business table above. Excess Casualty reserves
experienced favorable development in calendar year 2011 and significant adverse loss development in 2010 and 2009.   

Excess Casualty Discussion and Analysis       

      During
calendar year 2011 the Excess Casualty business segment experienced better than expected loss emergence, based on expected emergence using the shorter
termed development pattern from the year-end 2010 reserve analysis noted below. Accident years 2009 and prior exhibited actual emergence approximately 20 percent better than
expected during 2011, while accident year 2010 experienced some large catastrophic losses causing its results to be worse than expected. The loss development pattern used in the year-end
2011 reserve analysis was based on a shorter termed average of approximately three years, consistent with 2010. This pattern, coupled with the better than expected emergence seen during the year,
resulted in the estimated ultimate losses improving by approximately $273 million for this class of business, when compared to the year-end 2010 estimates. The accident year
contribution to this improvement is adverse development of $225 million in accident year 2010 offset by favorable development of $62 million to accident year 2009, $163 million to
accident year 2008, $90 million to accident year 2007, $115 million to accident year 2006, $40 million to accident year 2005, and $29 million for accident years 2004 and
prior in the aggregate.   

      The
increase in loss costs driving this development in 2009 and 2010 resulted primarily from medical inflation, which increased the economic loss component of tort claims; advances in
medical care, which extended the life span of severely injured claimants; and larger jury verdicts, which increased the value of severe tort claims.   

      AIG
increased its estimate for its year-end 2009 loss reserve for excess casualty liabilities by more than $1 billion, primarily relating to accident years 2006 and
prior. The majority of the 2009 charge resulted from management's decision to place greater reliance on the experience of the five most recent calendar years, resulting in significantly higher loss
development factor assumptions for the year-end 2009 loss reserve review. For the year-end 2009 loss reserve review, in response to significantly higher than expected loss
emergence, AIG reviewed the indicated reserves for excess casualty under a variety of loss development assumptions. These assumptions ranged from long term loss development averages, which used all or
nearly all of the historical data for this class, to short term averages which used only the latest three to five calendar years of loss development experience. AIG gave greater recognition to the
recent calendar year experience, resulting in significantly higher loss development factor assumptions for the year-end 2009 loss reserve review. This change in loss development
assumptions increased the excess casualty reserves by approximately $815 million for accident years 2006 and prior. Additionally, in conjunction with the selection of higher loss development
factors described above, AIG assigned greater credibility to the emerging loss development factors for product
aggregate-related claims, which are reviewed separately. This resulted in an increase of approximately $195 million in reserves, primarily for accident years 2000 and prior.   

      Even
with these higher loss development factors, during the fourth quarter of 2010, loss emergence across all accident years for excess casualty was approximately $115 million
worse than expected and was concentrated in accident years 2007 and 2008. The concentration of such losses in more recent accident years resulted in much higher loss estimates at year-end
2010 because the experience is extrapolated not only for these years, but to all years through the application of the loss development factors. The higher than expected loss emergence in the last half
of 2010, particularly in the fourth quarter, led management to select higher loss development factors than those selected in 2009 because greater weight was placed on the adverse development in the
recent calendar years (i.e., the three most recent calendar years). In these low frequency/high severity classes of business, AIG applied significant judgment to select an appropriate averaging
period for loss development that is long enough to be statistically credible while recognizing changing trends in a sufficiently responsive manner. AIG also considered recent trends in large products
liability verdicts in the United States given the impact of the recession and the   

  AIG 2011 Form 10-K            89  

Table of Contents   

impact
of anti-corporate sentiment in the mind of the general public, as well as the high attachment points at which this business is written. This change from basing the loss development
factor assumptions on the last five years provides still greater recognition of the recent calendar-year experience than the assumptions used in the 2009 loss reserve review, and in
management's judgment was warranted based on the developing trends described above.   

      Approximately
$80 million of the reserve strengthening in the fourth quarter of 2010 pertained to accident year 2009, whereas approximately $200 million was attributable to
accident year 2008, $340 million to accident year 2007, $195 million to accident year 2006, $100 million to accident years 1999 and prior, and approximately $95 million in
the aggregate to accident years 2000 through 2005.   

    Excess Workers' Compensation     

Excess Workers' Compensation Background:       

      This
class of business has an extremely long tail and is one of the most challenging classes of business to reserve for because it is highly sensitive to small
changes in assumptions   in the rate of medical inflation or the longevity of injured workers, for example   which can have a
significant effect on the ultimate reserve estimate. Furthermore claims estimates for this line are highly sensitive to:   

the assumed future rate of inflation and other economic conditions in the United States;     
           changes in the legal, regulatory, judicial and social environment;     
           the expected impact of recently enacted health care reform on workers' compensation costs;     
           underlying policy pricing, terms and conditions;     
           claims settlement trends that can materially alter the mix and ultimate cost of claims;     
           changes in claims reporting practices of insureds and third-party administrators;     
           the cost of new and additional treatment specialties, such as "pain management";     
           changes in injured worker longevity; and     
           territorial experience differences (across states and within regions in a state).    

There
was no material development recognized for this class in 2011. AIG experienced significant adverse development for this class during 2010 and 2009 of $825 million and
$925 million, respectively.   

Excess Workers' Compensation Discussion and Analysis       

      With
the passage of the Affordable Care Act in March 2010, management concluded that there is increased vulnerability to the risk of further
cost-shifting to the excess workers' compensation class of business in particular. Settlement efforts can also be affected by changes to evaluation protocols implemented by the Centers for
Medicare   Medicaid Services in 2009, which are expected to result in future prescription drug costs being borne by workers' compensation insurers to a significantly greater degree than in the
past and thus likely to lead to further deteriorating trends for the excess workers' compensation class of business.   

      In
addition, approximately 20 percent of the reported claims emanate from excess of loss reinsurance contracts provided by Chartis to other third-party insurers in accident years
2002 and prior. These reinsurance contracts generally include the so-called "follow the fortunes clause" whereby claims management is performed by the ceding insurers and the outcomes of
these efforts are binding on Chartis as the reinsurer. Chartis has virtually no ability to affect the outcomes of these claims.   

Moreover,
underwriting actions in recent years have led to a significant increase in insured retention levels, which reduce the frequency of moderate- severity losses but extend the time
period of first report of claim, causing further unpredictability in loss development patterns.   

  90            AIG 2011 Form 10-K  

Table of Contents   

      During
the fourth quarter of 2010, AIG conducted its comprehensive loss reserve analysis using a variety of actuarial techniques to project future loss development for this very
long-tail class. As part of this analysis, AIG compared and contrasted the traditional techniques that have been used for this class with an alternative approach that focuses more
explicitly on projecting the effect of future calendar year trends, placing less weight on prior-period loss development ratios due to the increased evidence of changes to the claims environment. To
this end, AIG engaged a third-party actuary that uses such alternative approaches to supplement the extensive analysis performed by AIG as it conducted its comprehensive loss review of its
year-end loss reserves. The third-party actuary provided an additional perspective for the excess workers' compensation class by using a method that management considered to be
particularly suited to the excess workers' compensation class, given its long-tail nature. These various actuarial analyses all indicated a substantial increase in loss estimates from the
prior-year level. AIG responded to this increased
loss indication by evaluating a range of loss development scenarios including developing the tail factors that extrapolate the claims projections as far as 40 years into the future. Due to the
extremely long-tail nature of this class, the impact of the selected change in loss development assumptions affected many accident years and led to an overall strengthening of
approximately $825 million, before discount. Approximately $430 million of the reserve strengthening in the fourth quarter of 2010 pertained to accident years 1999 and prior, with an
additional $160 million attributable to accident year 2000, $140 million to accident year 2001, $80 million to accident year 2002, and only approximately $10 million
attributable to 2003 and subsequent years.   

      For
the year-end 2009 loss reserve review, AIG increased the loss development assumptions for this class of business, resulting in approximately a $925 million
increase in reserves. The increased loss development assumptions were based on an additional actuarial study performed by AIG in response to the emergence of losses in accident years 1999 and prior.
This study analyzed the development patterns emanating from the AIG claims staff projections of expected ultimate cost for each open claim.   

    Director and Officer (D O) and Related Management Liability Classes of Business     

D O and Related Management Liability Classes of Business Background       

      Loss
reserves pertaining to D O and related management liability classes of business are included in the Other liability claims made line of business, as
presented in the loss reserves by major lines of business table above. AIG experienced favorable development in 2011, 2010 and 2009. The favorable development over the three-year period
related primarily to accident years 2005-2007, 2010, and, to a lesser extent, accident years 2001 and 2002.   

D O and Related Management Liability Classes of Business Discussion and Analysis       

      Loss
cost trends for D O and related management liability classes of business were adverse in accident years 2002 and prior due to a variety of factors,
including an increase in frequency and severity of corporate bankruptcies; the increase in the frequency of financial restatements; the sharp rise in market capitalization of publicly traded
companies; and the increase in the number of initial public offerings. The 2003 through 2006 period was marked by a significant reduction in claims related to these factors; thus the expected loss
ratios initially established for these accident years have developed favorably, particularly for 2004 and 2005. Beginning in accident year 2007, claims relating to the credit crisis resulted in
increased overall claim activity. This increase in claim activity began to subside for accident years 2008 and subsequent, with a reduction in credit crisis related claim activity and a decrease in
the higher severity securities class action claims in the more recent
accident years. AIG utilizes ground-up claims projections by AIG claims staff as a benchmark to select the loss reserves for this business; these projections are updated annually.   

For
the year-end 2011 loss reserve review, AIG's actuaries took into account the favorable development for accident years 2011, 2010 and 2003 through 2008 as well as the
continuing favorable development observed in the ground up claim projections by AIG claims staff over the past five years. This favorable development was partially offset by adverse development for
accident year 2009.   

      For
the year-end 2010 loss reserve review, AIG's actuaries took into account the favorable development from prior accident years, as well as the continuing favorable
development observed in the ground-up claims projections   

  AIG 2011 Form 10-K            91  

Table of Contents   

by
AIG claims staff over the past five years. This favorable development was partially offset by higher than expected initial claim projections for accident year 2009.   

      For
the year-end 2009 loss reserve review, AIG's actuaries took into account the favorable development for accident years 2007 and prior, as well as adverse development from
accident year 2008. In response to the emerging favorable development observed in the ground-up claims projections by AIG claims staff over the past several years, AIG considered both the
higher than expected initial claim projections for accident year 2008 as well as the favorable developments for the claims projections from the earlier accident years in determining the loss ratio for
accident year 2009.   

    Healthcare Background and Discussion and Analysis     

      Healthcare business written by the U.S. and Canada region of Chartis produced moderate favorable developments in 2011, 2010 and 2009.
Healthcare loss reserves have benefited from favorable market conditions and an improved legal environment in accident years 2002 and subsequent, following a period of adverse loss trends and market
conditions that began in the mid 1990's.   

    Primary Workers' Compensation (Commercial Risks, Commercial Specialty Workers' Compensation and Energy)     

Primary (Specialty) Workers' Compensation Background       

      The
Commercial Risk division writes casualty insurance accounts with revenues less than $700 million. The majority of the business is workers'
compensation. The Energy division writes casualty insurance accounts in the mining, oil and gas and power generation sectors. The Commercial Specialty Workers' Compensation division writes small
monoline guaranteed cost risks. AIG's Commercial Specialty Workers' Compensation business unit grew significantly in the early to mid 2000's but has reduced its premium writings by nearly
70 percent since 2007.   

      A
total of $518 million of adverse loss development was recorded for Commercial Specialty Workers' Compensation in 2010. Significant improvements in claims handling, which had the
effect of accelerating claims recognition (without increasing overall loss costs), were believed to be the cause of the earlier emergence of claims. However, the adverse loss emergence during 2010 led
AIG to conclude that the worsening experience was attributable to a credible upward trend in the emergence of losses, rather than claims handling. AIG's conclusion that the worsening experience
necessitated a strengthening of the reserves was confirmed by an independent third-party actuarial review during the fourth quarter of 2010. Approximately 75 percent of the year-end
2010 reserve strengthening for this business pertained to accident years 2007 through 2009.   

      Similarly,
Commercial Risks strengthened workers' compensation reserves in 2010, as the adverse loss emergence led AIG to conclude that the worsening experience was attributable to an
upward trend in the emergence of losses, rather than to claims handling. This was further confirmed by an independent third party review.   

Primary Workers' Compensation Discussion and Analysis       

      The
Commercial Risk, Commercial Specialty Workers' Compensation and Energy divisions contributed $265 million, $145 million and
$115 million, respectively, of adverse development in calendar year 2011. The vast majority of this adverse development emanates from primary workers compensation exposure and the vast majority
of the workers compensation adverse development comes from accident year 2010. In 2011, losses for accident year 2010 continued to emerge at higher levels than anticipated by the loss ratios
established at prior year end. A key structural driver was the effect of high unemployment on the frequency of higher severity lost time claims. The economic environment diminished the opportunities
of employers to offer "light duty" return-to-work mitigation strategies. In addition, AIG continues to see the effect of rising medical costs from the deployment of pain
management strategies. The increase in lost time frequency and the adverse effects of medical cost trends has resulted in higher loss ratios than anticipated at prior year end.   

      For
each of the three sub-segments, AIG's conclusion that the worsening experience necessitated a strengthening of the reserves was confirmed by an independent third-party
actuarial review during 2011.   

  92            AIG 2011 Form 10-K  

Table of Contents   

    Environmental     

Environmental Background and Discussion and Analysis       

      Chartis
maintains an active environmental insurance business written through its Chartis Environmental business unit. The reserves associated with this unit's
business are evaluated and reported separately from the asbestos and environmental reserves associated with standard General Liability and Umbrella policies discussed in "Asbestos and Environmental
Reserves". The following discussion relates solely to the Chartis Environmental reserves.   

      The
estimation of loss reserves relating to environmental claims is subject to a high degree of uncertainty due to inconsistent court decisions as well as judicial interpretations and
legislative actions that in some cases have tended to broaden coverage beyond the original intent of such policies and in others have expanded theories of liability. Reinsurance balances can also be
subject to a higher level of disputes and legal collection activity, given the complex nature of coverage issues.   

      Historically,
Chartis actuaries have used traditional actuarial methods, such as loss development, Bornhuetter-Ferguson, and indexing methods to assess the reserves for the Chartis
Environmental products. However, recent emerging claims activity has led Chartis to conclude that these traditional actuarial methods do not address to its satisfaction the unique nature of the
underlying exposures enough for those environmental policies with large ultimate loss potential (greater than $5 million per policy) and high policy limits. Chartis Environmental strengthened
its reserves in the first nine months of 2011 by $217 million, partly due to large reserve increases on individual claims. Consequently, an in depth ground-up review of the existing
exposures was conducted by actuaries and claims analysts. As a result of this claim review as well as other factors, Chartis strengthened the reserves by an additional $196 million in the
fourth quarter of 2011. Approximately 80 percent of the 2011 development was associated with accident years 2003 and prior.   

      In
addition to reserving actions, Chartis has made significant changes to the Chartis Environmental business with the goal of ensuring that the current policies are being written to earn
an appropriate risk adjusted profit. Underwriting guidelines have been revised to no longer cover known or expected clean up costs, which were a significant driver of historical claims, and a "new
emerging contaminants" team has been formed within the
dedicated environmental engineering staff to track any new cleanup standards that may be set by federal or state regulators. The percentage of long term policies (ten years or more) has decreased from
a historical average of 6 percent to 1.5 percent by policy count. In addition, minimum retentions have been increased, and engineering reviews are required for specific business segments
(such as oil and gas, and landfills) that have traditionally generated higher losses.   

      See
Chartis Results herein for further discussion of net loss development.   

Overview of Loss Reserving Process            

      Chartis loss reserves can generally be categorized into two distinct groups. One group is short-tail classes of business
consisting principally of property, personal lines and certain casualty classes. The other group is long-tail casualty classes of business which includes excess and umbrella liability,
D O, professional liability, medical malpractice, workers' compensation, general liability, products liability and related classes.   

     Short-Tail Reserves      

      For operations writing short-tail coverages, such as property coverages, the process of recording quarterly loss reserves
is generally geared toward maintaining an appropriate reserve for the outstanding exposure, rather than determining an expected loss ratio for current business. For example, the IBNR reserve required
for a class of property business might be expected to approximate 20 percent of the latest year's earned premiums, and this level of reserve would generally be maintained regardless of the loss
ratio emerging in the current quarter. The 20 percent factor would be adjusted to reflect changes in rate levels, loss reporting patterns, known exposure to unreported losses, or other factors
affecting the particular class of business.   

  AIG 2011 Form 10-K            93  

Table of Contents   

     Long-Tail Reserves      

      Estimation of ultimate net losses and loss expenses (net losses) for long-tail casualty classes of business is a complex
process and depends on a number of factors, including the class and volume of business involved. Experience in the more recent accident years of long-tail casualty classes of business
shows limited statistical credibility in reported net losses because a relatively low proportion of net losses would be reported claims and expenses and an even smaller percentage would be net losses
paid. Therefore, IBNR would constitute a relatively high proportion of net losses.   

      AIG's
carried net long-tail loss reserves are tested using loss trend factors that AIG considers appropriate for each class of business. A variety of actuarial methods and
assumptions is normally employed to estimate net losses for long-tail casualty classes of business. These methods ordinarily involve the use of loss trend factors intended to reflect the
annual growth in loss costs from one accident year to the next. Loss trend factors reflect many items including changes in claims handling, exposure and policy forms, current and future estimates of
monetary inflation and social inflation and increases in litigation and awards. These factors are periodically reviewed and adjusted, as appropriate, to reflect emerging trends which are based upon
past loss experience. Thus, many factors are implicitly considered in estimating the year-to-year growth in loss costs.   

      A
number of actuarial assumptions are generally made in the review of reserves for each class of business. For longer-tail classes of business, actuarial assumptions
generally are made with respect to the following:   

Loss trend factors which are used to establish expected loss ratios for subsequent accident years based on the projected
loss ratios for prior accident years.     
           Expected loss ratios for the latest accident year (i.e., accident year 2011 for the year-end 2011 loss
reserve analysis) and, in some cases for accident years prior to the latest accident year. The expected loss ratio generally reflects the projected loss ratio from prior accident years, adjusted for
the loss trend (see above) and the effect of rate changes and other quantifiable factors on the loss ratio. For low-frequency, high-severity classes such as excess casualty,
expected loss ratios generally are used for at least the three most recent accident years.     
           Loss development factors which are used to project the reported losses for each accident year to an ultimate basis.
Generally, the actual loss development factors observed from prior accident years would be used as a basis to determine the loss development factors for the subsequent accident years.    

AIG
records quarterly changes in loss reserves for each of its many Chartis classes of business. The overall change in AIG's loss reserves is based on the sum of these classes of
business changes. For most long-tail classes of business, the process of recording quarterly loss reserve changes involves determining the estimated current loss ratio for each class of
coverage. This loss ratio is multiplied by the current quarter's net earned premium for that class of coverage to determine the current accident quarter's total estimated net incurred loss and loss
expense. The change in loss reserves for the quarter for each class is thus the difference between the net incurred loss and loss expense, estimated as described above, and the net paid losses and
loss expenses in the quarter. Also, any change in estimated ultimate losses from prior accident years, either positive or negative, is reflected in the loss reserve for the current quarter.   

Details of the Loss Reserving Process            

      The process of determining the current loss ratio for each class of business is based on a variety of factors. These include, but are
not limited to, the following considerations: prior accident year and policy year loss ratios; rate changes; changes in coverage, reinsurance, or mix of business; and actual and anticipated changes in
external factors affecting results, such as trends in loss costs or in the legal and claims environment. The current loss ratio for each class of business reflects input from actuarial, underwriting
and claims staff and is intended to represent management's best estimate of the current loss ratio after reflecting all of the factors described above. At the close of each quarter, the assumptions
underlying the loss ratios are reviewed to determine if the loss ratios remain appropriate. This process includes a review of the actual claims experience in the quarter, actual rate changes achieved,
actual changes in coverage, reinsurance or mix of business, and changes in certain other factors   

  94            AIG 2011 Form 10-K  

Table of Contents   

that
may affect the loss ratio. When this review suggests that the initially determined loss ratio is no longer appropriate, the loss ratio for current business is changed to reflect the revised
assumptions.   

      A
comprehensive loss reserve review is conducted annually for each Chartis subsidiary. During 2011 AIG significantly expanded the scope of its third-party actuarial reviews to cover a
larger number of U.S. and international classes of business from the more complex reserves of long-tail classes of business. These reviews were concluded in the second, third and fourth
quarters of 2011. In 2010, third-party actuarial reserve reviews were generally limited to certain U.S. long-tail lines of business and were concentrated in the fourth quarter of 2010.
These detailed reviews are conducted for each class of business for each subsidiary, and thus consist of hundreds of individual analyses. The purpose of these reviews is to confirm the appropriateness
of the reserves carried by each of the individual subsidiaries, and therefore of AIG's overall carried reserves. The reserve analysis for each class of business is performed by the actuarial personnel
who are most familiar with that class of business. In completing these detailed actuarial reserve analyses, the actuaries are required to make numerous assumptions, including the selection of loss
development factors and loss cost trend factors. They are also required to determine and select the most appropriate actuarial methods to employ for each business class. Additionally, they must
determine the appropriate segmentation of data from which the adequacy of the reserves can be most accurately tested. In the course of these detailed reserve reviews an actuarial central estimate of
the loss reserve is determined. The sum of these central estimates for each class of business for each subsidiary provides an overall actuarial central estimate of the loss reserve for that
subsidiary. The ultimate
process by which the actual carried reserves are determined considers both the internal actuarial central estimate and numerous other internal and external factors including an assessment of economic
conditions in the United States and abroad, changes in the legal, regulatory, judicial and social environment, changes in medical cost trends (inflation, intensity and utilization of medical services)
underlying policy pricing, terms and conditions, and claims handling, as well as third-party actuarial reviews that are periodically performed for key classes of business. Loss reserve development can
also be affected by commutations of assumed and ceded reinsurance agreements.   

Actuarial Methods for Major Classes of Business      

      In testing the reserves for each class of business, a determination is made by AIG's actuaries as to the most appropriate actuarial
methods. This determination is based on a variety of factors including the nature of the claims associated with the class of business, such as the frequency or severity of the claims. Other factors
considered include the loss development characteristics associated with the claims, the volume of claim data available for the applicable class, and the applicability of various actuarial methods to
the class. In addition to determining the actuarial methods, the actuaries determine the appropriate loss reserve groupings of data. For example, AIG writes a great number of unique subclasses of
professional liability. For pricing or other purposes, it is appropriate to evaluate the profitability of each subclass individually. However, for purposes of estimating the loss reserves for
professional liability, it is appropriate to combine the subclasses into larger groups. The greater degree of credibility in the claims experience of the larger groups may outweigh the greater degree
of homogeneity of the individual subclasses. This determination of data segmentation and actuarial methods is carefully considered for each class of business. The segmentation and actuarial methods
chosen are those which together are expected to produce the most robust estimate of the loss reserves.   

      Actuarial
methods used by AIG for most long-tail casualty classes of business include loss development methods and expected loss ratio methods, including "Bornhuetter
Ferguson" methods described below. Other methods considered include frequency/severity methods, although these are generally used by AIG more for pricing analysis than for loss reserve analysis. Loss
development methods utilize the actual loss development patterns from prior accident years to project the reported losses to an ultimate basis for subsequent accident years. Loss development methods
generally are most appropriate for classes of business which exhibit a stable pattern of loss development from one accident year to the next, and for which the components of the classes have
similar development characteristics. For example, property exposures would generally not be combined into the same class as casualty exposures, and primary casualty exposures would generally not be
combined into the same class as excess casualty exposures. Expected loss ratio methods are generally used by AIG where the reported loss data lacks sufficient credibility to utilize loss development
methods, such as for new classes of business or for long-tail classes at early stages of loss development.   

  AIG 2011 Form 10-K            95  

Table of Contents   

      Expected
loss ratio methods rely on the application of an expected loss ratio to the earned premium for the class of business to determine the loss reserves. For example, an expected
loss ratio of 70 percent applied to an earned premium base of $10 million for a class of business would generate an ultimate loss estimate of $7 million.
Subtracting any reported paid losses and loss expense would result in the indicated loss reserve for this class. "Bornhuetter Ferguson" methods are expected loss ratio methods for which the expected
loss ratio is applied only to the expected unreported portion of the losses. For example, for a long-tail class of business for which only 10 percent of the losses are expected to
be reported at the end of the accident year, the expected loss ratio would be applied to the 90 percent of the losses still unreported. The actual reported losses at the end of the accident
year would be added to determine the total ultimate loss estimate for the accident year. Subtracting the reported paid losses and loss expenses would result in the indicated loss reserve. In the
example above, the expected loss ratio of 70 percent would be multiplied by 90 percent. The result of 63 percent would be applied to the earned premium of $10 million
resulting in an estimated unreported loss of $6.3 million. Actual reported losses would be added to arrive at the total ultimate losses. If the reported losses were $1 million, the
ultimate loss estimate under the "Bornhuetter Ferguson" method would be $7.3 million versus the $7 million amount under the expected loss ratio method described above. Thus, the
"Bornhuetter Ferguson" method gives partial credibility to the actual loss experience to date for the class of business. Loss development methods generally give full credibility to the reported loss
experience to date. In the example above, loss development methods would typically indicate an ultimate loss estimate of $10 million, as the reported losses of $1 million would be
estimated to reflect only 10 percent of the ultimate losses.   

      A
key advantage of loss development methods is that they respond quickly to any actual changes in loss costs for the class of business. Therefore, if loss experience is unexpectedly
deteriorating or improving, the loss development method gives full credibility to the changing experience. Expected loss ratio methods would be slower to respond to the change, as they would continue
to give more weight to the expected loss ratio, until enough evidence emerged for the expected loss ratio to be modified to reflect the changing loss experience. On the other hand, loss development
methods have the disadvantage of overreacting to changes in reported losses if in fact the loss experience is not credible. For example, the presence or absence of large losses at the early stages of
loss development could cause the loss development method to overreact to the favorable or unfavorable experience by assuming it will continue at later stages of development. In these instances,
expected loss ratio methods such as "Bornhuetter Ferguson" have the advantage of recognizing large losses without extrapolating unusual large loss activity onto the unreported portion of the losses
for the accident year. AIG's loss reserve reviews for long-tail classes typically utilize a combination of both loss development and expected loss ratio methods. Loss development methods
are generally given more weight for accident years and classes of business where the loss experience is highly credible. Expected loss ratio methods are given more weight where the reported loss
experience is less credible, or is driven more by large losses. Expected loss ratio methods require sufficient information to determine the appropriate expected loss ratio. This information generally
includes the actual loss ratios for prior accident years, and rate changes as well as underwriting or other changes which would affect the loss ratio. Further, an estimate of the loss cost trend or
loss ratio trend is required in order to allow for the effect of inflation and other factors which may increase or otherwise change the loss costs from one accident year to the next.   

Frequency/severity
methods generally rely on the determination of an ultimate number of claims and an average severity for each claim for each accident year. Multiplying the estimated
ultimate number of claims for each accident year by the expected average severity of each claim produces the estimated ultimate loss for the accident year. Frequency/severity methods generally require
a sufficient volume of claims in order for the average severity to be predictable. Average severity for subsequent accident years is generally determined by applying an estimated annual loss cost
trend to the estimated average claim severity from prior accident years. Frequency/severity methods have the advantage that ultimate claim counts can generally be estimated more quickly and accurately
than can ultimate losses. Thus, if the average claim severity can be accurately estimated, these methods can more quickly respond to changes in loss experience than other methods. However, for average
severity to be predictable, the class of business must consist of homogeneous types of claims for which loss severity trends from one year to the next are reasonably consistent. Generally these
methods work best for high frequency, low severity classes of business such as personal auto. AIG also utilizes these methods in pricing subclasses of professional liability.   

  96            AIG 2011 Form 10-K  

Table of Contents    

The following is a discussion of actuarial methods applied by major class of business:            

Class of Business or Category and Actuarial Method    
     
   Application of Actuarial Method    

Excess Casualty   

AIG generally uses a combination of loss development methods and expected loss ratio methods for excess casualty classes. 
    Frequency/severity methods are generally not used in isolation as the vast majority of reported claims do not result in a claim payment. In addition, the average severity varies significantly from accident year to accident
year due to large losses which characterize this class of business, as well as changing proportions of claims which do not result in a claim payment.  
      
       Expected loss ratio methods are generally used for at least the three latest accident years, due to the relatively low credibility of the reported losses. The loss experience is generally
reviewed separately for lead umbrella classes and for other excess classes, due to the relatively shorter tail for lead umbrella business. Automobile-related claims are generally reviewed separately from non-auto claims, due to the shorter-tail
nature of the automobile-related claims. Claims relating to certain latent exposures such as construction defects or exhaustion of underlying product aggregate limits are reviewed separately due to the unique emergence patterns of losses relating to
these claims. The expected loss ratios used for recent accident years are based on the projected ultimate loss ratios of prior years, adjusted for rate changes, estimated loss cost trends and all other changes that can be quantified.  

D O and Related Management Liability Classes of Business   

AIG generally uses a combination of loss development methods and expected loss ratio methods for D O and related management liability classes of business. 
    Frequency/severity methods are generally not used in isolation for these classes as the overall losses are driven by large losses more than by claim frequency. Severity trends have varied significantly from accident year to
accident year and care is required in analyzing these trends by claim type.  
      
       Expected loss ratio methods are given more weight in the two most recent accident years, whereas loss development methods are given more weight in more mature accident years. In addition to
these traditional actuarial methods, AIG's actuaries used ground-up claim projections provided by AIG claims staff as a benchmark for determining the indicated ultimate losses for all accident years other than the most recent accident year. For the
year-end 2011 loss reserve review, claims projections for accident years 2010 and prior were used. These classes of business reflect claims made coverage, and losses are characterized by low frequency and high severity. Thus, the claim projections
can produce an overall indicator of the ultimate loss exposure for these classes by identifying and estimating all large losses.  

Workers' Compensation   

AIG generally uses a combination of loss development methods and expected loss ratio methods for workers' compensation.  
      
       Expected loss ratio methods generally are given significant weight only in the most recent accident year. Workers' compensation claims are generally characterized by high frequency, low
severity, and relatively consistent loss development from one accident year to the next. AIG historically has been a leading writer of workers' compensation, and thus has sufficient volume of claims experience to use development methods. AIG
generally segregates California business from other business in evaluating workers' compensation reserves. Certain classes of workers' compensation, such as construction, are also evaluated separately. Additionally, AIG writes a number of very large
accounts which include workers' compensation coverage. These accounts are generally priced by AIG actuaries, and to the extent appropriate, the indicated losses based on the pricing analysis may be used to record the initial estimated loss reserves
for these accounts.  

AIG 2011 Form 10-K            97  

Table of Contents   

Class of Business or Category and Actuarial Method    
     
   Application of Actuarial Method    

Excess Workers' Compensation   

AIG generally uses a combination of loss development methods and expected loss ratio methods for excess workers' compensation.  
      
       Loss development methods are given the greater weight for mature accident years. Expected loss ratio methods are given the greater weight for the more recent accident years. Excess workers'
compensation is an extremely long-tail class of business, with loss emergence extending for decades. Therefore there is limited credibility in the reported losses for many of the more recent accident years. For the mature accident years, AIG's
actuaries use claims projections provided by AIG claims staff to help determine the loss development factors for this class of business.  

General Liability   

AIG generally uses a combination of loss development methods and expected loss ratio methods for primary general liability or products liability classes.  
      
       For certain classes of business with sufficient loss volume, loss development methods may be given significant weight for all but the most recent one or two accident years, whereas for smaller
or more volatile classes of business, loss development methods may be given limited weight for the five or more most recent accident years. Expected loss ratio methods would be used for the more recent accident years for these classes. The loss
experience for primary general liability business is generally reviewed at a level that is believed to provide the most appropriate data for reserve analysis. For example, primary claims made business is generally segregated from business written on
an occurrence policy form. Additionally, certain subclasses, such as construction, are generally reviewed separately from business in other subclasses. For example, in the case of environmental liability, AIG's actuaries use claim projections
provided by AIG claims staff for long-duration policies. Due to the fairly long-tail nature of general liability business, and the many subclasses that are reviewed individually, there is less credibility in the reported losses and increased reliance
on expected loss ratio methods.  

Commercial Automobile Liability   

AIG generally uses loss development methods for all but the most recent accident year for commercial automobile classes of business.  
      
       Expected loss ratio methods are generally given significant weight only in the most recent accident year.  

Healthcare   

AIG generally uses a combination of loss development methods and expected loss ratio methods for healthcare classes of business. 
    Frequency/severity methods are sometimes used for pricing certain healthcare accounts or business. However, in testing loss reserves the business is generally combined into larger groupings to enhance the credibility of the
loss experience. The frequency/severity methods that are applicable in pricing may not be appropriate for reserve testing.  
      
       The largest component of the healthcare business consists of coverage written for hospitals and other healthcare facilities. Reserves for excess coverage are tested separately from those for
primary coverage. For primary coverages, loss development methods are generally given the majority of the weight for all but the latest three accident years, and are given some weight for all years other than the latest accident year. For excess
coverages, expected loss methods are generally given all the weight for the latest three accident years, and are also given considerable weight for accident years prior to the latest three years. For other classes of healthcare coverage, an analogous
weighting between loss development and expected loss ratio methods is used. The weights assigned to each method are those that are believed to result in the best combination of responsiveness and stability.  

98            AIG 2011 Form 10-K  

Table of Contents   

Class of Business or Category and Actuarial Method    
     
   Application of Actuarial Method    

Professional Liability   

AIG generally uses a combination of loss development methods and expected loss ratio methods for professional liability classes of business. 
    Frequency/severity methods are used in pricing and profitability analyses for some classes of professional liability; however, for loss reserve testing, the need to enhance credibility generally results in classes that are not
sufficiently homogenous to utilize frequency/severity methods.  
      
       Loss development methods are used for the more mature accident years. Greater weight is given to expected loss ratio methods in the more recent accident years. Reserves are tested separately
for claims made classes and classes written on occurrence policy forms. Further segmentations are made in a manner believed to provide an appropriate balance between credibility and homogeneity of the data.  

Catastrophic Casualty   

AIG uses expected loss ratio methods for all accident years for catastrophic casualty business. This class of business consists of casualty or financial lines coverage that attach in excess of
very high attachment points; thus the claims experience is marked by very low frequency and high severity. Because of the limited number of claims, loss development methods are not used.  
      
       The expected loss ratios and loss development assumptions used are based upon the results of prior accident years for this business as well as for similar classes of business written above
lower attachment points. The business is generally written on a claims made basis. AIG uses ground-up claim projections provided by AIG claims staff to assist in developing the appropriate reserve.  

Aviation   

AIG generally uses a combination of loss development methods and expected loss ratio methods for aviation exposures. Aviation claims are not very long-tail in nature; however, they are driven
by claim severity. Thus a combination of both development and expected loss ratio methods are used for all but the latest accident year to determine the loss reserves. 
    Frequency/severity methods are not employed due to the high severity nature of the claims and different mix of claims from year to year.  
      
       Expected loss ratio methods are used to determine the loss reserves for the latest accident year.  

Personal Auto (Domestic)   

AIG generally uses frequency/severity methods and loss development methods for domestic personal auto classes.  
      
       For many classes of business, greater reliance is placed on frequency/severity methods as claim counts emerge quickly for personal auto and allow for more immediate analysis of resulting loss
trends and comparisons to industry and other diagnostic metrics.  

Fidelity/Surety   

AIG generally uses loss development methods for fidelity exposures for all but the latest accident year. For surety exposures, AIG generally uses the same method as for short-tail classes
(discussed below).  
      
       Expected loss ratio methods are also given weight for the more recent accident years, and for the latest accident year they may be given 100 percent weight.  

AIG 2011 Form 10-K            99  

Table of Contents   

Class of Business or Category and Actuarial Method    
     
   Application of Actuarial Method    

Mortgage Guaranty   

AIG tests mortgage guaranty reserves using loss development methods, supplemented by an internal claim analysis by actuaries and staff who specialize in the mortgage guaranty
business.  
      
       The reserve analysis projects ultimate losses for claims within each of several categories of delinquency based on actual historical experience, using primarily a frequency/severity loss
development approach. Additional reserve tests are also employed, such as tests measuring losses as a percent of risk in force. Reserves are reviewed separately for each line of business considering the loss development characteristics, volume of
claim data available and applicability of various actuarial methods to each line.  

Held reserves for mortgage guaranty insurance losses and loss adjustment expenses are established for reported mortgage loan delinquencies and estimates of delinquencies that have been incurred
but have not been reported by loan servicers, based upon historical reporting trends. AIG establishes held reserves using a percentage of the contractual liability (for each delinquent loan reported) that is based upon projected claim experience for
each category of delinquency, consistent in total with the overall reserve estimate. Mortgage Guaranty losses and loss adjustment expenses have been adversely affected by macroeconomic events, such as declining home prices and increasing unemployment,
 among other events, related to the turmoil in the financial markets. Because these macroeconomic events are subject to adverse or favorable change, the determination of the ultimate losses and loss adjustment expenses requires a high degree of
judgment. Responding to these adverse macroeconomic influences, numerous government and lender loan modification programs have been implemented to mitigate mortgage losses. The loan modification programs have produced additional cures of delinquent
loans in 2011 that may not continue in 2012 as some modification programs are phased out or retired. In addition, these loan modifications may re-default resulting in new losses for Mortgage Guaranty.  

Occurrences of fraudulent loans, underwriting violations, and other deviations from contractual terms, mostly related to the 2006 and 2007 blocks of business, have resulted in historically high
levels of claim rescissions and denials (collectively referred to as rescissions) during 2011. As a result, many lenders have increased their rescission appeals activity as well as the success rate on those appeals by focusing additional resources on
the process. The increased lender attention on tracking down missing loan documents along with the heightened focus on appeals of rescissions caused the estimated ultimate rescission rate (net of appeals) assumed in the loss reserves to be lower than
the rescission level experienced in 2010. If this trend continues it may unfavorably affect future results. AIG believes it has provided appropriate reserves for currently delinquent loans, consistent with industry practices.  

100            AIG 2011 Form 10-K  

Table of Contents   

Class of Business or Category and Actuarial Method    
     
   Application of Actuarial Method    

Short-Tail Classes   

AIG generally uses either loss development methods or IBNR factor methods to set reserves for short-tail classes such as property coverages.  
      
       Where a factor is used, it generally represents a percent of earned premium or other exposure measure. The factor is determined based on prior accident year experience. For example, the IBNR
for a class of property coverage might be expected to approximate 20 percent of the latest year's earned premium. The factor is continually reevaluated in light of emerging claim experience as well as rate changes or other factors that could
affect the adequacy of the IBNR factor being employed.  

International   

Business written by Chartis internationally includes both long-tail and short-tail classes of business. For long-tail classes of business, the actuarial methods used are analogous to those
described above. However, the majority of business written by Chartis internationally is short-tail, high frequency and low severity in nature. For this business, loss development methods are generally employed to test the loss reserves.  
      
       AIG maintains a database of detailed historical premium and loss transactions in original currency for business written by Chartis internationally, thereby allowing AIG actuaries to determine
the current reserves without any distortion from changes in exchange rates over time. In testing the Chartis operations, AIG's actuaries segment the data by region, country or class of business as appropriate to determine an optimal balance between
homogeneity and credibility.  

Loss Adjustment Expenses   

AIG determines reserves for legal defense and cost containment loss adjustment expenses for each class of business by one or more actuarial methods. The methods generally include development
methods analogous to those described for loss development methods. The developments could be based on either the paid loss adjustment expenses or the ratio of paid loss adjustment expenses to paid losses, or both. Other methods include the
utilization of expected ultimate ratios of paid loss expense to paid losses, based on actual experience from prior accident years or from similar classes of business.  
      
       AIG generally determines reserves for adjuster loss adjustment expenses based on calendar year ratios of adjuster expenses paid to losses paid for the particular class of business. AIG
generally determines reserves for other unallocated loss adjustment expenses based on the ratio of the calendar year expenses paid to overall losses paid. This determination is generally done for all classes of business combined, and reflects costs
of home office claim overhead as a percent of losses paid.  

Catastrophes   

Special analyses are conducted by AIG in response to major catastrophes in order to estimate AIG's gross and net loss and loss expense liability from those events.  
      
       These analyses may include a combination of approaches, including modeling estimates, ground-up claim analysis, loss evaluation reports from on-site field adjusters, and market share
estimates.  

AIG's loss reserve analyses do not provide a range of loss reserve estimates. Because a large portion of the loss reserves from Chartis business
relates to longer-tail casualty classes of business driven by severity rather than frequency of claims, such as excess casualty and D O, AIG believes that developing a range around loss
reserve estimates would not be meaningful. Using the reserving methodologies described above, AIG's actuaries determine their best estimate of the required reserve and advise management of that
amount. An important part of AIG's internal governance process over the establishment of loss reserves is the Reserve Review Committee. This multi-disciplinary committee is comprised of senior
actuarial, finance, claims, risk management and business unit executives throughout the organization. The purpose of the Reserve Review Committee is to provide oversight, policy establishment and
guidance to the reserving process and, when deemed necessary, to adjust the liability for unpaid claims and claim adjustment expenses to an amount that is different than the amounts recommended by the
actuaries.   

  AIG 2011 Form 10-K            101  

Table of Contents   

      For
a discussion of the sensitivity analysis on the reserve for unpaid claims and claims adjustment expenses, see Critical Accounting Estimates   Liability for Unpaid
Claims and Claims Adjustment Expense (Chartis and Mortgage Guaranty) herein.   

Asbestos and Environmental Reserves            

      The estimation of loss reserves relating to asbestos and environmental claims on insurance policies written many years ago is subject
to greater uncertainty than other types of claims due to inconsistent court decisions as well as judicial interpretations and legislative actions that in some cases have tended to broaden coverage
beyond the original intent of such policies and in others have expanded theories of liability. In addition, reinsurance recoverable balances relating to asbestos and environmental loss reserves are
subject to greater uncertainty due to the underlying age of the claim, underlying legal issues surrounding the nature of the coverage, and determination of proper policy period. As such, these
balances tend to be subject to increased levels of disputes and legal collection activity when actually billed. The insurance industry as a whole is engaged in extensive litigation over these coverage
and liability issues and is thus confronted with a continuing uncertainty in its efforts to quantify these exposures.   

AIG
continues to receive claims asserting injuries and damages from toxic waste, hazardous substances, and other environmental pollutants and alleged claims to cover the cleanup costs of
hazardous waste dump sites, referred to collectively as environmental claims, and indemnity claims asserting injuries from asbestos.   

      The
vast majority of these asbestos and environmental claims emanate from policies written in 1984 and prior years. Commencing in 1985, standard policies contained an absolute exclusion
for pollution-related damage and an absolute asbestos exclusion was also implemented. The current Chartis Environmental policies that AIG underwrites on a claims-made basis have been
excluded from the analysis. See discussion on Chartis Environmental reserves herein for further discussion.   

The
majority of AIG's exposures for asbestos and environmental claims are excess casualty coverages, not primary coverages. Thus, the litigation costs are treated in the same manner as
indemnity amounts. That is, litigation expenses are included within the limits of the liability AIG incurs. Individual significant claim liabilities, where future litigation costs are reasonably
determinable, are established on a case-by-case basis.   

      On
June 17, 2011, Chartis completed a transaction with NICO, a subsidiary of Berkshire Hathaway, Inc., under which the bulk of Chartis' net domestic asbestos liabilities
were transferred to NICO as part of Chartis' ongoing strategy to reduce its overall loss reserve development risk. The transaction with NICO covers potentially volatile U.S.-related asbestos
exposures. The transaction does not cover asbestos accounts that Chartis believes have already been reserved to their limit of liability or certain other ancillary asbestos exposure assumed by Chartis
subsidiaries.   

      Upon
the closing of this transaction, but effective as of January 1, 2011, Chartis ceded the bulk of its net domestic asbestos liabilities to NICO under a retroactive reinsurance
agreement with an aggregate limit of $3.5 billion. The aggregate limit includes NICO's assumption of collection risk for existing third-party reinsurance recoverable associated with these
liabilities. Chartis paid NICO approximately $1.67 billion as consideration for this cession and NICO assumed approximately $1.82 billion of net U.S. asbestos liabilities. As a result of
this transaction, Chartis recorded a deferred gain of $150 million in the second quarter of 2011, which is being amortized into income over the settlement period of the underlying claims.   

      Estimation
of asbestos and environmental claims loss reserves is a subjective process and reserves for asbestos and environmental claims cannot be estimated using conventional reserving
techniques such as those that rely on historical accident year loss development factors. The methods used to determine asbestos and environmental loss estimates and to establish the resulting reserves
are continually reviewed and updated by management.   

      Significant
factors which affect the trends that influence the asbestos and environmental claims estimation process are the court resolutions and judicial interpretations which broaden
the intent of the policies and scope of coverage. The current case law can be characterized as still evolving, and there is little likelihood that any firm direction will develop in the near future.
Additionally, the exposures for cleanup costs of hazardous waste dump sites involve issues such as allocation of responsibility among potentially responsible parties and the government's refusal to
release parties from liability.   

  102            AIG 2011 Form 10-K  

Table of Contents    

      Due to this uncertainty, it is not possible to determine the future development of asbestos and environmental claims with the same degree of reliability as with
other types of claims. Such future development will be affected by the extent to which courts continue to expand the intent of the policies and the scope of the coverage, as they have in the past, as
well as by the changes in Superfund and waste dump site coverage and liability issues. If the asbestos and environmental reserves develop deficiently, such deficiency could have an adverse effect on
AIG's future results of operations for an individual reporting period.   

      With
respect to known environmental claims, AIG established over two decades ago a specialized environmental claims unit, which investigates and adjusts all such environmental claims.
This unit evaluates these environmental claims utilizing a claim-by-claim approach that involves a detailed review of individual policy terms and exposures. Because each
policyholder presents different liability and coverage issues, AIG generally evaluates exposure on a policy-by-policy basis, considering a variety of factors such as known
facts, current law, jurisdiction, policy language and other factors that are unique to each policy. Quantitative techniques have to be supplemented by subjective considerations, including management
judgment. Each claim is reviewed at least semi-annually utilizing the aforementioned approach and adjusted as necessary to reflect the current information.   

      In
the environmental claims unit, AIG actively manages and pursues early resolution with respect to these claims in an attempt to mitigate its exposure to the unpredictable development
of these claims. AIG attempts to mitigate
its known long-tail environmental exposures by utilizing a combination of proactive claim-resolution techniques, including policy buybacks, complete environmental releases, compromise
settlements, and, when appropriate, litigation.   

      Similarly,
with respect to known asbestos claims, AIG established over two decades ago a specialized toxic tort claims unit, which historically investigated and adjusted all such
asbestos claims. As part of the above mentioned NICO transaction, effective January 1, 2011, NICO assumed responsibility for claims handling related to the majority of AIG's domestic asbestos
liabilities.   

      In
the fourth quarter of 2010, management conducted its more in-depth comprehensive loss-reserve review with the assistance of its third-party actuary. The more
in-depth study to determine the appropriate loss reserve estimate for its asbestos exposures includes a series of top-down and ground-up reserve analyses. To ensure
it has the most comprehensive analysis possible, AIG engages an independent third-party actuarial firm to assist in assessing these exposures. The third-party actuarial firm's ground-up
study uses a proprietary model to calculate the loss exposure on an insured-by-insured basis. Management believes that the accuracy of the reserve estimate is greatly enhanced
through the combination of the third-party actuarial firm's industry modeling techniques and industry knowledge and management's specific account-level experience.   

      Key
observations in 2010 from AIG's third-party actuary that were factors in informing the base-case reserve strengthening included:   

An analysis was performed on policy-specific information including, for instance, policy limits, layers of coverage,
ground-up attachment points, and self-insured retentions/deductibles. This policyholder-specific data provided the third-party actuary with an ability to refine its models to
produce more account-specific reserves and reduce the amount of standard-model assumptions (i.e., industry assumptions). This new information allowed the third-party actuary to consider certain
policies for which assumed losses would not be allocated evenly across years (i.e., pro rata) as assumed under the standard model.     
           Through the third-party actuary's review of the policy data as provided by AIG, the third-party actuary identified
specific additional policies with no claim activity to date and included them in its modeling for certain accounts. These additional policies provided the actuary with the ability to replace its
standard assumptions used in the pure IBNR calculation, with actual identified policies.     
           During the fourth quarter of 2010, AIG and the third-party actuary increased the estimate of reserves in recognition of
general industry litigation trends attempting to expand asbestos coverage theories.     
           With the assistance of the third-party actuary, AIG periodically reviews its assumptions and modeling parameters used in
its reserving estimates to calibrate the model to arrive at the most accurate estimate of AIG's experience. This regular calibration is a necessary step in ensuring that AIG's loss reserve estimate    
 
  AIG 2011 Form 10-K            103  

Table of Contents   

considers
all relevant information and produces as accurate an estimate as possible. During its 2010 loss reserve review, the third-party actuary recommended, and AIG agreed, that such changes be made
to certain assumptions and model parameters.   

AIG
completed a top-down report year projection as well as a market share projection of its indicated asbestos and environmental loss reserves. These projections consist of a
series of tests performed separately for asbestos and for environmental exposures.   

      For
asbestos, these tests project the losses expected to be reported over the next 16 years, i.e., from 2012 through 2027, based on the actual losses reported through 2011
and the expected future loss emergence for these claims. Three scenarios were tested, with a series of assumptions ranging from more optimistic to more conservative.   

      For
environmental claims, an analogous series of frequency/severity tests are produced. Environmental claims from future report years (i.e., IBNR) are projected out five years,
i.e., through the year 2016.   

      At
year-end 2011, AIG considered a number of factors and recent experience in addition to the results of the respective top-down and ground-up
analyses performed for asbestos and environmental reserves. AIG considered the significant uncertainty that remains as to AIG's ultimate liability relating to asbestos and environmental claims. This
uncertainty is due to several factors including:   

the long latency period between asbestos exposure and disease manifestation and the resulting potential for involvement of
multiple policy periods for individual claims;     
           claims filed under the non-aggregate premises or operations section of general liability policies;    
           the number of insureds seeking bankruptcy protection and the effect of prepackaged bankruptcies;    
           diverging legal interpretations; and     
           with respect to environmental claims, the difficulty in estimating the allocation of remediation cost among various
parties.    

After
AIG carefully considered the recent experience compared to the results of the 2010 ground-up analysis as well as all of the above factors, no adjustment to gross and
net asbestos reserves was recognized in 2011. Additionally in 2011, a moderate amount of incurred loss pertaining to the asbestos loss reserve discount is reflected in the table below and is primarily
related to the reserves subject to the NICO reinsurance agreement.   

      Upon
completion of the environmental top-down report year analysis performed in the fourth quarter of 2011, a moderate adjustment to gross and net reserves was recognized.   

  104            AIG 2011 Form 10-K  

Table of Contents   

   The following table provides a summary of reserve activity, including estimates for applicable IBNR, relating to asbestos and environmental claims separately and
combined:   

*       Primarily represents accretion of discount.      

The following table presents the estimate of the gross and net IBNR included in the Liability for unpaid claims and claims adjustment
expense, relating to asbestos and environmental claims separately and combined:   

AIG 2011 Form 10-K            105  

Table of Contents   

The following table presents a summary of asbestos and environmental claims count activity:   

*       Represents an administrative change to the method of determining the number of open claims, which had no effect on carried reserves.    

Survival Ratios   Asbestos and Environmental      

      The following table presents AIG's survival ratios for asbestos and environmental claims at December 31, 2011, 2010 and 2009.
The survival ratio is derived by dividing the current carried loss reserve by the average payments for the three most recent calendar years for these claims. Therefore, the survival ratio is a
simplistic measure estimating the number of years it would be before the current ending loss reserves for these claims would be paid off using recent year average payments. The significant increase in
the gross and net survival ratios at December 31, 2010 compared to December 31, 2009 relates to the reserve increases recorded in 2010. In addition, AIG's survival ratio for asbestos
claims was negatively affected by certain favorable settlements during 2008 and 2007. These settlements reduced gross and net asbestos survival ratios at December 31, 2010 by approximately
0.1 years and 0.3 years, respectively; and reduced gross and net asbestos survival ratios at December 31, 2009 by approximately 0.9 years and 1.9 years,
respectively.   

      Many
factors, such as aggressive settlement procedures, mix of business and level of coverage provided, have a significant effect on the amount of asbestos and environmental reserves and
payments and the resultant survival ratio. Moreover, as discussed above, the primary basis for AIG's determination of its reserves are not survival ratios, but instead the ground-up and
top-down analysis. Thus, caution should be exercised in attempting to determine reserve adequacy for these claims based simply on this survival ratio.   

The following table presents survival ratios for asbestos and environmental claims, separately and combined, which were based upon a three-year average
payment:   

*       Survival ratios are calculated consistent with the basis of presentation in the reserve activity table above, which excludes the effects of the NICO
cession.    

SunAmerica Operations            

      SunAmerica offers a comprehensive suite of products and services to individuals and groups including term life, universal life, A H products,
fixed and variable deferred annuities, fixed payout annuities, mutual funds and financial planning. SunAmerica offers its products and services through a diverse, multi-channel distribution network
that includes banks, national, regional and independent broker-dealers, affiliated financial advisors, independent marketing organizations, independent and career insurance agents, structured
settlement brokers, benefit consultants and direct to-consumer platforms.   

      In
managing SunAmerica, AIG analyzes the operating performance of each business using Operating income (loss), which is before net realized capital gains (losses) and related DAC and SIA
amortization. Operating income (loss) is not a substitute for pre-tax income determined in accordance with U.S. GAAP. However, AIG believes that the presentation of Operating income
(loss) enhances the understanding of the underlying profitability of the ongoing operations of SunAmerica. The reconciliations to pre-tax income are provided in the tables that follow.   

106            AIG 2011 Form 10-K  

Table of Contents   

SunAmerica Results           

   The following table presents SunAmerica results:     

AIG 2011 Form 10-K            107  

Table of Contents   

2011 and 2010 Comparison            

      SunAmerica reported a decrease in operating income in 2011 compared to 2010, reflecting lower net investment income, higher DAC
amortization and higher policyholder benefit expense in SunAmerica's variable annuity business due to equity market conditions, and an increase in incurred but not reported (IBNR) death claim
reserves.   

      Net
investment income reflected a slight decline in base yields (12 basis points), as investment purchases in late 2010 and 2011 were made at yields lower than the weighted average
yields of the existing base portfolio. The lower yields were partially offset by an increase in income from the reinvestment of significant amounts of cash and short term investments during 2011. The
following decreases in investment enhancement items also contributed to lower net investment income in 2011 compared to 2010:   

$471 million decrease in valuation gains on ML II;     
           $196 million lower call and tender income;     
           $163 million of losses from equity-method investments in two trusts created by AIG to hold leased commercial
aircraft, in which SunAmerica has non-voting preferred equity and debt interests. The losses reflect aircraft impairments recorded by the trusts in 2011 based on reviews of aircraft
recoverability, which consider projected undiscounted future cash flows subject to assumptions based on current macroeconomic and industry trends and conditions; and     
           $121 million decrease in private equity funds and hedge funds income.    

DAC
amortization and policyholder benefit expenses related to weaker equity market conditions were $93 million in 2011, compared to an $87 million reduction to expenses due
to more favorable equity market conditions in 2010. In a weak equity market, SunAmerica increases policyholder benefit reserves to recognize the expected value of death benefits in excess of the
projected account balance for certain guaranteed benefits features of variable annuities. The DAC asset related to these products may also be adjusted through amortization expense, to reflect updates
of future estimated gross profits due to equity market assumptions. The effect on the estimated gross
profits of variable products of short-term fluctuations in the equity markets are mitigated in part through the use of a reversion to mean methodology. Under this methodology, SunAmerica
assumes a long-term growth rate for the assets backing these liabilities, which factors in potential short-term fluctuations in the financial markets, and if the
long-term growth rate assumption is deemed to be unreasonable in light of the current market conditions, the long-term growth rate assumption is revised upward or downward to
reflect the revised estimate. See Note 2(g) to the Consolidated Financial Statements for additional discussion.   

SunAmerica
recorded an increase of approximately $202 million in the estimated reserves for incurred but not reported death claims in 2011 in conjunction with the use of the
Social Security Death Master File (SSDMF) to identify potential claims not yet filed with its life insurance companies. Although SunAmerica has enhanced its claims practices to include use of the
SSDMF, it is possible that industry-wide regulatory inquiries, audits and other regulatory activity could result in the payment of additional death claims, additional escheatment of funds
deemed abandoned under state laws, administrative penalties and interest.   

      Offsetting
these decreases in operating income was $226 million of legal settlement net proceeds received in 2011. In three separate agreements, SAFG Retirement
Services, Inc. (SAFG), formerly known as AIG Retirement Services, Inc. agreed to resolve its claims in the matter titled AIG Retirement Services, Inc. v. Altus Finance S.A.
et al.   

      Other
acquisition and insurance expenses declined $159 million, or 8 percent, compared to 2010, primarily due to legal expense accruals and state guaranty fund assessments
which were higher in 2010, as well as a reduction in the cost of letters of credit related to reinsurance.   

      Pre-tax
income for SunAmerica reflected net realized capital gains in 2011 compared to net realized capital losses in 2010 due principally to a $981 million decline in
other-than-temporary impairments, a decline in fair value losses on derivatives primarily used to hedge the effect of interest rate and foreign exchange movements on Guaranteed
Investment Contracts (GIC) reserves, and declines in the allowance for mortgage loans. These   

  108            AIG 2011 Form 10-K  

Table of Contents   

improvements
were partially offset by a $465 million increase in fair value losses of embedded derivatives, net of economic hedges, relating to variable annuity products with living benefit
guarantees, compared to 2010, driven by declines in long   term interest rates. Due to statutory capital considerations, a significant portion of the interest rate exposure related to
these variable annuity contract features is unhedged.   

      SunAmerica
periodically evaluates the estimates used to establish its liabilities for future policy benefits and DAC. These estimates may be adjusted based on actual experience and
management judgment regarding assumptions which include mortality, morbidity, persistency, maintenance expenses and investment returns. These current best estimates are used to determine whether to
adjust DAC and record additional liabilities when unrealized gains or losses on available-for-sale investment securities are recognized through accumulated other comprehensive
income, at each balance sheet date, as if the securities had been sold at their stated aggregate fair value and the proceeds reinvested at current yields. An actual sale of the underlying securities
could
trigger an actual loss recognition event that would result in the amortization of DAC and the recognition of higher reserves through policyholder benefit expense due to a deficiency in future
earnings. Primarily as a result of the low interest rate environment in 2011, SunAmerica recorded additional future policy benefits and adjustments to DAC totaling $1.6 billion, net of tax, as
of December 31, 2011, which were charged directly to accumulated other comprehensive income (loss) and included within the change in net unrealized appreciation (depreciation) of investments.   

2010 and 2009 Comparison            

      SunAmerica reported an increase in operating income in 2010 compared to 2009 primarily due to higher net investment income and
favorable changes in DAC and SIA amortization and policyholder benefit expenses due to improved equity market conditions in 2010 relative to 2009.   

      Higher
net investment income in 2010 compared to 2009 reflected the following:   

$699 million increase in private equity funds and hedge funds income;     
           $539 million increase in valuation gains on ML II; and     
           $279 million higher call and tender income.    

In
2009, DAC and SIA amortization unlocking and related reserve strengthening charges of $611 million were primarily due to reductions in the long-term growth
assumptions and deteriorated equity market conditions early in 2009 for group retirement products and individual variable annuities, and projected increases in surrenders for individual fixed
annuities. The 2010 unlocking and reserve strengthening was not significant.   

      The
improvement in the pre-tax results for SunAmerica in 2010 compared to 2009 reflected a decline in net realized capital losses due principally to a significant decline in
other-than-temporary impairments, and an increase in net realized gains from the sale of investments in 2010 partially offset by affordable housing partnership impairments and
an increase in fair value losses on derivatives primarily used to hedge the effect of interest rate and foreign exchange movements on
GIC reserves. See Results of Operations   Consolidated Results   Premiums;   Net Investment Income; and   Net Realized
Capital Gains (Losses) herein.   

  AIG 2011 Form 10-K            109  

Table of Contents    

Sales and Deposits            

The following tables summarize SunAmerica premiums, deposits and other considerations by product*:   

*       Life insurance sales include periodic premiums from new business expected to be collected over a one-year period and 10 percent of single
premiums and unscheduled deposits from new and existing policyholders. Annuity sales represent deposits from new and existing customers.    

Premiums            

      Premiums represent premiums received on traditional life insurance policies and deposits on life- contingent payout
annuities. Premiums, deposits and other considerations is a non-GAAP measure which includes life insurance premiums, deposits on annuity contracts and mutual funds.   

The following table presents a reconciliation of premiums, deposits and other considerations to premiums:   

2011 and 2010 Comparison      

      Total premiums, deposits and other considerations increased in 2011 as deposits from individual fixed annuities, individual
variable annuities and retail mutual funds all showed significant increases.   

      Group
retirement deposits increased primarily due to higher levels of individual rollover deposits in 2011. Individual fixed annuity deposits increased as certain bank
distributors negotiated a lower commission in exchange for a higher rate offered to policyholders which made SunAmerica's individual fixed annuity products more attractive. However, fixed annuity
deposits declined in the latter part of 2011 from the first six months of 2011 due to significant declines in interest rates. Variable annuity sales increased due to reinstatements of
relationships at a number of key broker-dealers, and increased wholesaler productivity. Deposits from life insurance products increased in 2011 but were more than offset by declines in deferred
annuities sold through life insurance distribution channels and a large private placement variable annuity sale in 2010. Retail mutual fund annual sales growth was driven by SunAmerica Asset
Management Corp.'s Specialty Series product offerings (Alternative Strategies and Global Trends) and the Focused Dividend Strategy Portfolio.   

SunAmerica
grew new sales of mortality based life insurance products during 2011 by strengthening the core retail independent distribution channel and continuing to focus on
career agent and direct-to-consumer distribution. Retail life sales increased 17 percent during 2011 as SunAmerica continues to re-engage independent   

  110            AIG 2011 Form 10-K  

Table of Contents   

distribution
channels. Affiliated distribution channels grew 11 percent in 2011 as a result of an enhanced product suite that appeals to middle market consumers. Matrix Direct,
SunAmerica's direct-to-consumer platform, has proven highly effective for the distribution of term life and A H products. The decline in institutional sales during 2011
reflects several large variable universal life sales during 2010.   

     2010 and 2009 Comparison      

      Total premiums, deposits and other considerations increased in 2010 compared to 2009 as improved sales from life
insurance, group retirement products and individual variable annuities offset a decline in individual fixed annuity deposits. Group Retirement deposits increased for 2010 primarily due to
improved sales from individual rollovers. Individual fixed annuity deposits decreased primarily due to the low interest rate environment in 2010. Variable annuity sales increased due to
competitive product enhancements, reinstatements at a number of key broker-dealers, and increased wholesaler productivity. Payout annuity sales increased in 2010 compared to 2009 as a
result of improved structured settlement and immediate annuity sales. Life insurance sales decreased in 2010 compared to 2009 driven by term and universal life products sold through
independent and career distribution networks.   

Domestic Retirement Services Net Flows            

The following table presents the account value rollforward for Domestic Retirement Services:   

AIG 2011 Form 10-K            111  

Table of Contents   

2011 and 2010 Comparison      

      Net flows improved in 2011 due to both the significant increase in deposits and favorable surrender experience in group
retirement and individual fixed annuities. However, individual fixed annuities net flows declined in the second half of the year due to lower deposits resulting from the low interest rate environment.
Should the current low interest rate environment persist, net flows are likely to decline in 2012 from 2011 levels. Surrender rates for individual fixed annuities also decreased
in 2011 due to the low interest rate environment and the relative competitiveness of interest credited rates on the existing block of fixed annuities versus interest rates on alternative
investment options available in the marketplace. SunAmerica has returned to a more normal level of group surrender activity that no longer reflects the negative AIG publicity associated with the
events of 2008 and 2009. Individual variable annuities net flows improved from 2010 levels due primarily to higher deposits throughout 2011 and turned positive in the fourth
quarter of 2011.   

  112            AIG 2011 Form 10-K  

Table of Contents   

     2010 and 2009 Comparison      

      Surrender rates continued to improve in 2010 compared to 2009 for group retirement products, individual fixed annuities
and individual variable annuities as surrenders have returned to more normal levels. Surrender rates for individual fixed annuities have decreased significantly in 2010 due to the low interest
rate environment and the relative competitiveness of interest credited rates on the existing block of fixed annuities versus interest rates on alternative investment options available in the
marketplace.   

   The following table presents reserves by surrender charge category and surrender rates:   

*       Excludes mutual funds of $9.5 billion and $9.0 billion in 2011 and 2010, respectively.      

Aircraft Leasing Operations            

      AIG's Aircraft Leasing operations are the operations of ILFC, which generates its revenues primarily from leasing new and used commercial jet
aircraft to foreign and domestic airlines. Aircraft Leasing operations also include gains and losses that result from the remarketing of commercial jet aircraft for ILFC's own account, and remarketing
and fleet management services for airlines and other aircraft fleet owners.   

      As
discussed in Note 3 to the Consolidated Financial Statements, in order to align financial reporting with changes made during 2011 to the manner in which AIG's chief
operating decision makers review the businesses to assess performance and make decisions about resources to be allocated, beginning in the third quarter of 2011, Aircraft Leasing is being
presented as a standalone reportable segment. It was previously reported as a component of the Financial Services reportable segment. Prior periods have been revised to conform to the current period
presentation for the segment changes.   

  AIG 2011 Form 10-K            113  

Table of Contents   

Aircraft Leasing Results           

   Aircraft Leasing results were as follows:   

2011 and 2010 Comparison            

      The Aircraft Leasing pre-tax loss increased in 2011 compared to 2010 primarily due to lower rental revenues
as a result of a reduction in ILFC's average fleet size resulting from sales of aircraft and lower lease revenue earned on re-leased aircraft in its fleet, partially offset by lower
depreciation charges. In 2011, ILFC had an average of 932 aircraft in its fleet, compared to 963 in 2010.   

      Additionally,
ILFC recorded impairment charges, fair value adjustments and lease-related charges of $1.7 billion in each of 2011 and 2010. The impairment charges in
2011 resulted from unfavorable trends affecting the residual values of certain aircraft types. In monitoring the aircraft in ILFC's fleet for impairment charges on an on-going basis, ILFC
considers facts and circumstances such as projected lease rates and terms, residual values, overhaul rental realization and aircraft holding periods. These items are considered in determining whether
ILFC would need to modify its assumptions used in its recoverability assessments. In addition to these factors, ILFC considered its newly acquired end-of-life management
capabilities from its acquisition of AeroTurbine and its impact on ILFC's strategy, as well as potential sales. While ILFC's overall business model has not changed, its expectation of how it may
manage out-of-production aircraft, or aircraft that have been affected by new technology developments, changed due to the AeroTurbine acquisition. The result of the overall
assessment based on ILFC's updated assumptions and management's change in its end-of-life strategy for older generation aircraft indicated that the book value of certain
aircraft were not fully recoverable and these aircraft were deemed impaired. The aircraft impaired were primarily out-of-production aircraft, or aircraft that have been
impacted by new technology developments.   

2010 and 2009 Comparison            

      ILFC reported a pre-tax loss in 2010 compared to pre-tax income in 2009 primarily due to
impairment charges, fair value adjustments and lease related charges recorded on aircraft in its fleet. During 2010, ILFC recorded asset impairment losses of $1.1 billion on certain
aircraft in its fleet reflecting management's outlook related to new technology developments and the future recovery of the airline industry due to a decrease in demand for certain aircraft types,
increased volatility in fuel costs and changes in other macroeconomic conditions which, when aggregated, resulted in lower future estimated lease rates used in ILFC's annual recurring recoverability
assessment. Additionally, ILFC recorded asset impairment charges, fair value adjustments and lease-related   

  114            AIG 2011 Form 10-K  

Table of Contents   

charges
aggregating $597 million on aircraft sold. ILFC also incurred increased interest expense driven by higher composite borrowing rates, and an increase in the provision for overhauls to
reflect an increase in future reimbursements.   

Other Operations            

      The components of AIG's Other operations were revised in the third quarter of 2011, primarily as a result of the reclassification of
non-aircraft leasing operations from the Financial Services reportable segment as discussed in Note 3 to the Consolidated Financial Statements, as
follows:   

AIGFP's derivatives portfolio, previously reported as a component of the Financial Services reportable segment is now
reported with AIG Markets, Inc. (AIG Markets) as Global Capital Markets in Other Operations.     
           AIG Global Real Estate Investment Corp. operations and Institutional Asset Management, previously reported as
components of Direct Investment book and Asset Management operations within Other operations, respectively, are now reported in Corporate   Other.    

AIG's
Other operations include the following:   

Mortgage Guaranty      UGC subsidiaries issue residential
mortgage guaranty insurance, both domestically and to a lesser extent internationally, that covers mortgage lenders from the first loss for credit defaults on high
loan-to-value conventional first-lien mortgages for the purchase or refinance of one-to four-family residences.     
            Global Capital Markets      consist of the operations of
AIG Markets and the remaining AIGFP derivatives portfolio. AIG Markets acts as the derivatives intermediary between AIG companies and third parties. The active wind-down of the AIGFP
derivatives portfolio was completed by the end of the second quarter of 2011. Although the remaining AIGFP derivatives portfolio may experience periodic fair value volatility, the portfolio
consists predominantly of transactions AIG believes are of low complexity, low risk, supportive of AIG's risk management objectives or not economically appropriate to unwind based on a cost versus
benefit analysis. AIGFP is entering into new derivative transactions only to hedge its current portfolio.     
            Direct Investment book      includes results for the MIP
and the results of certain non-derivative assets and liabilities of AIGFP.     
            Retained Interests      Fair value gains or losses on
AIG's remaining interest in AIA ordinary shares retained following the AIA initial public offering, the retained interest in ML III, and, prior to their sale on March 8, 2011, the MetLife
securities that were received as consideration from the sale of ALICO.     
            Corporate   Other      consists primarily of
interest expense, intercompany interest income that is eliminated in consolidation, expenses of corporate staff not attributable to specific business segments (including restructuring costs), expenses
related to internal controls, corporate initiatives, certain compensation plan expenses, corporate-level net realized capital gains and losses, certain litigation-related charges and credits, and net
gains and losses on sales of divested businesses that did not qualify for discontinued operations accounting treatment.     
            Divested Businesses      include operating results of
certain businesses that have been divested that did not meet the criteria for discontinued operations classification, primarily consisting of AIA in 2010.    
 
  AIG 2011 Form 10-K            115  

Table of Contents    

Other Operations Results           

   The following table presents pre-tax income for AIG's Other operations:     

(a)       Corporate   Other contributed its equity interest in ML III to an AIG subsidiary reported above, during the second quarter of
2009.   
       (b)      Includes interest expense of $2 million, $75 million and $89 million for 2011, 2010 and 2009, respectively,
allocated to discontinued operations in consolidation.    

Mortgage Guaranty            

      The main business of the subsidiaries of UGC is the issuance of residential mortgage guaranty insurance, both domestically, and to a
lesser extent, internationally, that covers mortgage lenders from the first loss for credit defaults on high loan-to-value conventional first-lien mortgages for the
purchase or refinance of one- to four-family residences.   

   The following table presents pre-tax income for Mortgage Guaranty:     

116            AIG 2011 Form 10-K  

Table of Contents   

2011 and 2010 Comparison      

      UGC recorded a pre-tax loss in 2011 compared to pre-tax income in 2010, primarily due
to:   

an increase in claims and claims adjustment expenses of $334 million, primarily in first-lien business,
reflecting increased overturns of denied and rescinded claims and unfavorable first-lien loss development of $76 million in 2011, compared to favorable loss development of
$385 million in 2010, partially offset by lower levels of newly reported delinquencies in the first-lien, second-lien and international products, and a reduction in
reserves due to an agreement to resolve certain delinquencies with a major European lender that resulted in a $43 million benefit;     
           declines in earned premiums from the second-lien, private student loan and international businesses, which
were placed into runoff during 2008, partially offset by an increase in earned premiums from first-lien business; and     
           the accrual of $22 million to pay for previously rescinded losses, certain legal fees and interest in connection
with an adverse judgment. UGC has appealed the court's decision.    

Partially
offsetting these declines was a reduction in underwriting expenses compared to 2010 reflecting a $94 million accrual of estimated remedy losses in 2010. Remedy losses
represent the indemnification for losses incurred by lenders arising from obligations contractually assumed by UGC as a result of underwriting services provided to lenders during times of high loan
origination activity. UGC believes it has adequately accrued for these losses at December 31, 2011. Pre-tax income for 2010 also includes gains of approximately $150 million
from legal settlements and reinsurance commutations.   

     2010 and 2009 Comparison      

      Mortgage Guaranty reported pre-tax income in 2010 compared to a pre-tax loss in 2009, driven
by:   

favorable prior year reserve development, primarily in first liens, due to increased cures, rescissions and claims
denials, compared to unfavorable development in 2009;     
           gains of $150 million in 2010 from legal settlements and reinsurance commutations; and     
           lower levels of newly reported delinquencies in the first-lien, second-lien and international
products, partially offset by increased delinquencies in private student loans. During 2010, UGC commuted the majority of its private student loan portfolio.    

Partially
offsetting the improved 2010 results were:   

lower earned premiums in first-lien, second-lien, and international businesses in 2010;    
           the accrual of $94 million of remedy losses in 2010 as noted above; and    
           the amortization of the second-lien premium deficiency reserve of $222 million in 2009.    

Risk-in-Force      

   The following table presents risk in force and delinquency ratio information for Mortgage Guaranty domestic business:   

(a)       Based on number of policies.
         (b)       Represents the full amount of second-lien loans insured reduced for contractual aggregate loss limits on certain pools of loans, usually
10 percent of the full amount of loans insured in each pool. Certain second-lien pools have reinstatement provisions, which will expire as the loan balances are
repaid.    

AIG 2011 Form 10-K            117  

Table of Contents   

Global Capital Markets Operations            

     2011 and 2010 Comparison      

      Global Capital Markets reported a pre-tax loss in 2011 compared to pre-tax income in 2010 primarily due to a
decrease in unrealized market valuation gains related to the AIGFP super senior credit default swap (CDS) portfolio and losses in 2011 compared to gains in 2010 on the AIGFP CDS contracts referencing
single-name exposures written on corporate, index and asset-backed credits, which are not included in the AIGFP super senior CDS portfolio. These items were partially offset by
improvements related to the net effect of changes in credit spreads on the credit valuation adjustments of AIGFP's derivative assets and liabilities. During 2011, AIGFP recorded an unrealized market
valuation gain on its super senior CDS portfolio of $339 million compared to an unrealized market valuation gain of $598 million in 2010. The reduction in gains resulted primarily from
CDS transactions written on multi-sector CDOs driven by price declines of the underlying assets. AIGFP also recognized a loss of $23 million in 2011 on CDS contracts referencing
single-name exposures as compared to a gain of $149 million in 2010 due to a decline in market conditions. During 2011, AIGFP recognized a net credit valuation adjustment loss on
derivative assets and liabilities of $53 million compared to a net credit valuation adjustment loss of $200 million in 2010 due to a narrowing of corporate spreads.   

     2010 and 2009 Comparison      

      Global Capital Markets reported lower pre-tax income in 2010 compared to 2009 primarily due to lower unrealized market
valuation gains related to the AIGFP super senior CDS portfolio and the significant decrease related to the net effect of changes in credit spreads on the credit valuation adjustments of AIGFP's
derivative assets and liabilities, partially offset by lower costs related to the continued wind-down of AIGFP's businesses and portfolios. During 2010, AIGFP recorded an unrealized market
valuation gain on its super senior CDS portfolio of $598 million compared to an unrealized market valuation gain of $1.4 billion in 2009. During 2010, AIGFP recognized a net credit
valuation adjustment loss on derivative assets and liabilities of $200 million compared to a net credit valuation adjustment gain of $775 million in 2009.   

      See
Critical Accounting Estimates   Level 3 Assets and Liabilities herein for a discussion of AIGFP's super senior CDS portfolio.   

Direct Investment Book Results            

     2011 and 2010 Comparison      

      The Direct Investment book pre-tax income decreased in 2011 compared to 2010 due to lower net gains on credit valuation
adjustments on non-derivative assets and liabilities accounted for under the fair value option and lower interest income in the MIP due to approximately $4.9 billion in sales of
investments during the fourth quarter of 2010 and the first quarter of 2011 to increase liquidity. These declines were partially offset by significantly lower
other-than-temporary impairments on fixed maturity securities.   

     2010 and 2009 Comparison      

      The Direct Investment book pre-tax income decreased in 2010 compared to 2009 due to lower net gains on credit valuation
adjustments on non-derivative assets and liabilities accounted for under the fair value option, partially offset by significantly lower other-than-temporary
impairments on fixed maturity securities.   

  118            AIG 2011 Form 10-K  

Table of Contents   

   The following table presents credit valuation adjustment gains (losses) for the Direct Investment book (excluding intercompany transactions):   

Change in Fair Value of the MetLife Securities Prior to Sale            

      AIG recognized a loss in 2011, representing the decline in the securities' value, due to market conditions, from December 31,
2010 through the date of their sale in the first quarter of 2011.   

Change in Fair Value of AIA Securities            

      AIG recognized a $1.3 billion gain in 2011, a 12 percent increase in the value of AIG's 33 percent interest in
AIA, which is recorded in Other invested assets and accounted for under the fair value method. In 2010, AIG recognized a $638 million loss on its interest in AIA during the approximate two
month holding period following the initial public offering in late October 2010.   

Change in Fair Value of ML III            

      The loss attributable to AIG's interest in ML III for 2011 was due to significant spread widening and reduced interest rates.   

      The
gain of $1.8 billion on ML III for 2010 was attributable to the shortening of weighted average life by 1.34 years. Additionally, fair value for 2010 was positively
affected by a decrease in projected credit losses in the underlying collateral securities. During 2010, credit spreads tightened by 287 basis points.   

  AIG 2011 Form 10-K            119  

Table of Contents    

Corporate   Other            

      Corporate   Other reported pre-tax losses of $5.7 billion in 2011 compared to pre-tax gains of
$9.6 billion in 2010 primarily due to gains on sales of divested businesses in 2010, primarily related to AIA, partially offset by:   

a decline in interest expense as a result of the repayment of the FRBNY Credit Facility;     
           a reduction in other corporate expenses due to the securities litigation charges recorded in 2010; and    
           a pre-tax gain on extinguishment of debt of approximately $484 million resulting from the exchange of
outstanding junior subordinated debentures for senior notes pursuant to an exchange offer.    

These
improvements were mostly offset by a loss on extinguishment of debt of $3.3 billion in connection with the Recapitalization, primarily consisting of the accelerated
amortization of the prepaid commitment fee asset resulting from the termination of the FRBNY Credit Facility and net realized capital losses recorded in 2011 compared to net realized capital gains in
2010.   

      Corporate  
Other reported pre-tax income in 2010 compared to a pre-tax loss in 2009 primarily due to the following:   

a decline in interest expense on the FRBNY Credit Facility; and     
           gains on sales of divested businesses in 2010, primarily related to AIA, compared to losses in 2009.    

Divested Businesses            

      Divested businesses include the operating results of divested businesses that did not qualify for discontinued operations accounting
through the date of their sale. The Divested businesses results for 2010 primarily represent the historical results of AIA, which was deconsolidated in November 2010 in conjunction with its initial
public offering.   

CONSOLIDATED OTHER COMPREHENSIVE INCOME   

   The following table presents AIG's consolidated other comprehensive income (loss):   

Change in Unrealized Appreciation of Investments            

      The $5.5 billion increase in 2011 was primarily attributable to continued appreciation in bonds available for sale of $0.7 billion
and $4.6 billion recognized by Chartis and SunAmerica, respectively, due to continued improvements in financial market conditions and declines in U.S. Treasury rates, which were partially
offset by widening spreads.   

      The
$9.9 billion increase in 2010 primarily reflects the $0.6 billion and $7.0 billion appreciation in bonds available for sale held by Chartis and SunAmerica
operations, respectively, due to lower U.S. Treasury rates and   

  120            AIG 2011 Form 10-K  

Table of Contents   

slightly
narrowed spreads. The structured securities portfolio accounted for more than half of the positive change in 2010, as RMBS and CMBS continued to recover from the distressed pricing levels of
the financial crisis. The
increase in 2010 also includes $578 million of appreciation in available-for-sale equities held by Chartis.   

      The
$33.2 billion in unrealized appreciation for 2009 reflects $30.2 billion and $2.9 billion in appreciation in bonds and equities available for sale, respectively,
related to the continued recovery of the global financial markets in 2009, as investors returned to equity and bond markets.   

Change in Deferred Acquisition Costs Adjustment and Other            

      The decline in deferred acquisition costs in all periods is primarily the result of increases in the unrealized appreciation of investments
supporting interest-sensitive products. The decline since 2009 reflects the divestiture of multiple life insurance operations, including the sales of Nan Shan, AIG Star and AIG Edison in 2011, the
deconsolidation of AIA in 2010 and sale of ALICO in 2010.   

Change in Future Policy Benefits            

      AIG periodically evaluates the assumptions used to establish its deferred acquisition costs and future policy benefits. These assumptions may be
adjusted based on actual experience and management judgment. Key assumptions include mortality, morbidity, persistency, maintenance expenses and investment returns.   

      Primarily
as a result of the significant decline in interest rates during the latter half of 2011 and updated assumptions for mortality experience, AIG recorded additional future policy
benefits through other comprehensive income. This change in future policy benefits assumes the securities underlying certain traditional long-duration products had been sold at their
stated aggregate fair value and reinvested at current yields.   

Change in Foreign Currency Translation Adjustments            

      Increases in foreign currency translation adjustments for all periods primarily reflect the weakening of the U.S. dollar in relation to foreign
currencies. The decline in foreign currency translation adjustments over the three-year period reflects the divestiture of multiple foreign operations, including the sales of Nan Shan, AIG Star and
AIG Edison in 2011, the deconsolidation of AIA in 2010 and the sale of ALICO in 2010.   

Change in Net Derivative Gains (Losses) Arising from Cash Flow Hedging Activities            

      The decline in 2011 compared to 2010 primarily reflects the gradual wind-down of the cash flow hedge portfolio in 2011, 2010 and 2009, partially
offset by a decline in the interest rate environment.   

Retirement Plan Liabilities Adjustment            

      The decrease in 2011 was primarily due to the announced redesign and resulting remeasurement of the AIG Retirement and AIG Excess Plans, which
will be converted to cash balance plans effective April 1, 2012. AIG recognized a $590 million pre-tax reduction to Accumulated other comprehensive income in connection with
the remeasurement at September 30, 2011, primarily due to a decrease in the discount rate since December 31, 2010. This decrease in Accumulated other comprehensive income was partially
offset by the effect of the increase in the discount rate in the fourth quarter in connection with the year end remeasurement.   

In
2010 and 2009, the effect of declining discount rates on pension benefit obligations was offset by the appreciation of investments held by the respective plans.   

      See
Note 20 to the Consolidated Financial Statements for further discussion.   

Divestitures and Deconsolidations            

      The change attributable to divestitures and deconsolidations in every period reflects the derecognition of all items in Accumulated other
comprehensive income (loss) at the point of sale/deconsolidation for all entities,   

  AIG 2011 Form 10-K            121  

Table of Contents   

including
domestic entities. In 2011, the most significant entities were AIG Star, AIG Edison and Nan Shan. In 2010, the most significant entities were AIA and ALICO. In 2009, the most significant
entities were Transatlantic, 21st Century and HSB.   

Deferred Taxes on Other Comprehensive Income            

      For the year ended December 31, 2011, the effective tax rate on pre-tax Other Comprehensive Loss was 5.9 percent. The
effective tax rate differs from the statutory 35 percent rate primarily due to the effects of the Nan Shan disposition.   

      For
the year ended December 31, 2010, the effective tax rate on pre-tax Other Comprehensive Income was 47.7 percent, primarily due to the effects of the AIA
initial public offering, the ALICO disposition and changes in the estimated U.S. tax liability with respect to the potential sale of subsidiaries, including AIG Star and AIG Edison.   

      For
the year ended December 31, 2009, the effective tax rate on pre-tax Other Comprehensive Income was 34.7 percent, which did not materially differ from the
statutory 35 percent rate.   

CAPITAL RESOURCES AND LIQUIDITY    

OVERVIEW   

      AIG Parent's primary sources of liquidity are short-term investments and borrowing availability under syndicated credit and contingent
liquidity facilities. Subject to market conditions, AIG expects to access the debt markets from time to time to meet its financing needs, which include the payment of maturing debt of AIG and its
subsidiaries.   

Highlights
of 2011 actions affecting capital resources and liquidity include:   

the Recapitalization in January 2011 (more fully described in Note 1 to the Consolidated Financial Statements);    
           approximately $3.0 billion paid to AIG Parent from Chartis and SunAmerica funded by payments of dividends from
their subsidiaries;     
           $2.9 billion issuance of AIG Common Stock;     
           $2.0 billion senior unsecured note issuance;     
           additional $500 million contingent liquidity facility arranged;     
           $1.0 billion share repurchase authorization in November 2011, with repurchases of approximately $70 million
at year-end;     
           exchange of $2.4 billion of outstanding junior subordinated debentures for $1.8 billion of new senior
unsecured notes;     
           membership of certain SunAmerica insurance companies in the Federal Home Loan Banks (FHLBs), which provides these
companies access to collateralized borrowing opportunities to enhance their liquidity;     
           repayment of total debt of $18.5 billion, excluding the Recapitalization in January 2011; and    
           $3.8 billion net capital contributions to Chartis, partially funded from the retention of $2 billion in net
cash proceeds from the sale of AIG Star and AIG Edison and available cash at AIG Parent (more fully described in Uses of Liquidity below).    

Liquidity Adequacy Management            

      AIG maintains a stress testing and liquidity framework to systematically assess AIG's aggregate exposure to its most significant risks. This
framework is built on AIG's existing Enterprise Risk Management (ERM) stress   

122            AIG 2011 Form 10-K  

Table of Contents   

testing
methodology for both insurance and non-insurance operations. The scenarios are performed with a two-year time horizon and capital adequacy requirements consider both
financial and insurance risks.   

      AIG's
insurance operations must comply with numerous constraints on their minimum capital positions. These constraints are guiding requirements for capital adequacy for individual
businesses, based on capital assessments under rating agency, regulatory and business requirements. Using ERM's stress testing methodology, the capital impact of potential stresses is evaluated
relative to the binding capital constraint of each business operation in order to determine the liquidity required of AIG Parent to support the insurance operations and maintain their target
capitalization levels. Added to this amount is the contingent liquidity required under stressed scenarios for non-insurance operations, including the Global Capital Markets derivatives
portfolio, the Direct Investment book and ILFC.   

      AIG's
consolidated risk target is to maintain a minimum liquidity buffer such that AIG Parent's liquidity requirements under the ERM stress scenarios do not exceed 80 percent of
AIG Parent's overall liquidity sources over the specified two-year horizon. If the 80 percent minimum threshold is projected to be breached over this defined time horizon, AIG will
take appropriate actions to further increase liquidity sources or reduce liquidity requirements to maintain the target threshold, although no assurance can be given that this can be achieved under
then-prevailing market conditions.   

      As
a result of these ERM stress tests and other considerations discussed in Note 1 to the Consolidated Financial Statements, AIG believes that it has sufficient liquidity at the
AIG Parent level to satisfy future liquidity requirements and meet its obligations, including requirements arising out of reasonably foreseeable contingencies or events.   

AIG
has in place unconditional capital maintenance agreements (CMAs) with certain domestic Chartis and SunAmerica insurance companies. These CMAs are expected to continue to enhance
AIG's capital management
practices, and will help manage the flow of capital and funds between AIG Parent and its insurance company subsidiaries. AIG expects to enter into additional CMAs with certain other Chartis insurance
companies as needed in 2012. For additional details regarding CMAs, see Liquidity of Parent and Subsidiaries   Chartis, and Liquidity of Parent and Subsidiaries  
SunAmerica below.   

Analysis of Sources and Uses of Cash            

   The following table presents selected data from AIG's Consolidated Statement of Cash Flows:   

Operating Cash Flow Activities           

      The decline in Net cash provided by operating activities in 2011 compared to 2010 was principally due to the following:   

the payment in cash of the FRBNY Credit Facility accrued compounded interest and fees by AIG Parent totaling
$6.4 billion, which were previously paid in-kind, and accordingly did not reduce operating cash flows in prior periods;    
 
  AIG 2011 Form 10-K            123  

Table of Contents   

a $10.4 billion reduction in cash provided by operating activities attributable to foreign life subsidiaries that
were sold (i.e., AIA, ALICO, AIG Star, AIG Edison and Nan Shan), which subsidiaries generated operational cash inflows of $3.4 billion, $13.8 billion and $7.4 billion in
2011, 2010 and 2009, respectively; and     
           the effect of catastrophes and the cession of the bulk of Chartis net asbestos liabilities in the United States to NICO.
Excluding the impact of the NICO cession and catastrophes, cash provided by AIG's reportable segments in 2011 is consistent with 2010, as increases in claims paid were offset by increases in premiums
collected at the insurance subsidiaries.    

Insurance
companies generally receive most premiums in advance of the payment of claims or policy benefits, but the ability of Chartis to generate positive cash flow is affected by the
frequency and severity of losses under its insurance policies, policy retention rates and operating expenses.   

      Cash
provided by Chartis operations was $1.9 billion for 2010 compared to $2.8 billion in 2009 as a reduction in claims paid was more than offset by declines in premiums
collected, arising primarily from a decrease in U.S. and Canada region production. Catastrophic events and significant casualty losses, the timing and effect of which are inherently unpredictable,
reduce operating cash flow for Chartis operations. Cash provided by AIG's life insurance subsidiaries, including entities presented as discontinued operations, was $15.5 billion for 2010
compared to $9.1 billion in 2009 as growth in international markets was partially offset by a decrease in cash flows from U.S. and Canada region operations.   

Investing Cash Flow Activities           

      Net cash provided by investing activities in 2011 was primarily attributable to:   

the utilization of $26.4 billion of restricted cash generated from the AIA IPO and ALICO sale in connection with
the Recapitalization and $9.6 billion disposition of MetLife securities, described in Note 1 to the Consolidated Financial Statements;     
           the sale of AIG Star, AIG Edison and Nan Shan in 2011 for total proceeds of $6.4 billion; and    
           net sales of short term investments and maturities of available for sale investments, primarily at Chartis and SunAmerica,
which were partially offset by purchases of available for sale investments.    

Net
cash used in investing activities in 2010 primarily resulted from net purchases of fixed maturity securities, resulting from AIG's investment of cash generated from operating
activities, and the redeployment of liquidity that had been accumulated by the insurance companies in 2009. In 2009, Net cash provided by investing activities reflected from the net proceeds from the
sale and maturity of investments.   

Financing Cash Flow Activities           

      Net cash used in financing activities was significantly higher in 2011 primarily due to the repayment of the FRBNY Credit Facility and the
$12.4 billion partial repayment of the SPV Preferred Interests in connection with the Recapitalization described in Note 1 to the Consolidated Financial Statements and use of proceeds
received from the sales of foreign life insurance entities in 2011. Net cash used in financing activities was significantly lower in 2010 than in 2009, primarily as a result of declines in
policyholder contract withdrawals, reflecting improved conditions for the life insurance and retirement services businesses was partially offset by the issuance of long-term debt by ILFC,
which is discussed in Liquidity of Parent and Subsidiaries   Aircraft Leasing below.   

Liquidity of Parent and Subsidiaries            

AIG Parent           

      The Recapitalization in January 2011 involved a series of integrated transactions which had a direct effect on AIG's liquidity activities and
financial position. These transactions included the repayment of the FRBNY Credit Facility, and the partial repayment of the liquidation preference of the SPV Preferred Interests. These transactions   

124            AIG 2011 Form 10-K  

Table of Contents   

are
more fully described in Note 1 to the Consolidated Financial Statements and are excluded from the Sources of Liquidity and Uses of Liquidity discussions below.   

      In
addition, in 2011, several significant asset sales were completed, including the sale of AIG Star and AIG Edison in February 2011, the sale of the MetLife securities in March 2011,
and the sale of Nan Shan in August 2011. Proceeds from these sales primarily were used to pay down the Department of the Treasury's SPV Preferred Interests. These transactions are more fully described
in Notes 1 and 4 to the Consolidated Financial Statements and are excluded from the Sources of Liquidity and Uses of Liquidity discussion below.   

      In
May 2011, AIG and the Department of the Treasury, as selling shareholder, completed a registered public offering of AIG Common Stock. AIG issued and sold 100 million shares of
AIG Common Stock for aggregate net proceeds of approximately $2.9 billion and the Department of the Treasury sold 200 million shares of AIG Common Stock. AIG did not receive any of the
proceeds from the sale of the shares of AIG Common Stock by the Department of the Treasury. A portion of the net proceeds AIG received from the offering, $550 million has been used to fund a
litigation settlement, and AIG used the balance of the net proceeds for general corporate purposes.   

      AIG
issues debt securities in the public, private and non-U.S. markets from time to time to meet its financing needs and those of certain of its subsidiaries. AIG engages in
secured and unsecured borrowings to support its capital structure, corporate needs and the operations of subsidiaries. Liquidity sources of AIG and its respective subsidiaries are utilized to fund
repayment of these obligations, including any additional funding requirements where cash flows from assets supporting borrowing obligations are not sufficient.   

On
September 13, 2011, AIG raised approximately $2.0 billion in proceeds from the issuance of senior unsecured notes, consisting of $1.2 billion in
three-year notes and $800 million in five-year notes. AIG is using the proceeds from the sale of these notes to pay maturing notes that were issued by AIG to fund the
MIP.   

      On
October 12, 2011, the previously outstanding AIG 364-Day Syndicated Facility, AIG 3-Year Syndicated Facility and Chartis letter of credit facility were
terminated and AIG entered into a $1.5 billion 364-Day Syndicated Facility and a $3.0 billion 4-Year Syndicated Facility. The new 4-Year Syndicated
Facility provides for $3.0 billion of revolving loans, which includes a $1.5 billion letter of credit sublimit. The $1.3 billion of previously issued letters of credit under the
Chartis letter of credit facility were rolled into the letter of credit sublimit within the 4-Year Syndicated Facility, so that a total of $1.7 billion remains available under this
facility, of which $0.2 billion is available for letters of credit. AIG expects that it may draw down on these facilities from time to time, and may use the proceeds for general corporate
purposes.   

      In
October 2011, AIG entered into a contingent liquidity facility under which AIG has the right, for a period of one year, to enter into put option agreements, with an aggregate notional
amount of up to $500 million, with an unaffiliated international financial institution pursuant to which AIG has the right, for a period of five years from the date any such put option
agreement is entered into, to issue up to $500 million in senior debt to the financial institution, at AIG's discretion.   

In
November 2011, AIG exchanged specified series of its outstanding Junior Subordinated Debentures for newly issued senior notes pursuant to an exchange offer. In particular, AIG
exchanged (i) $312 million aggregate principal amount of its outstanding Series A-1 Junior Subordinated Debentures for $256 million aggregate principal
amount of its new 6.820 percent Dollar notes due November 15, 2037, (ii)  812 million ($1.3 billion at the December 31, 2011 exchange rate)
aggregate principal amount of its outstanding Series A-2 and Series A-8 Junior Subordinated Debentures for  662 million
($1.0 billion at the December 31, 2011 exchange rate) aggregate principal amount of its new 6.765 percent Sterling notes due November 15, 2017 and
(iii)  591 million ($766 million at the December 31, 2011 exchange rate) aggregate principal amount of its outstanding
Series A-3 Junior Subordinated Debentures for  421 million ($545 million at the December 31, 2011 exchange rate) aggregate principal
amount of its new 6.797 percent Euro notes due November 15, 2017. The exchange resulted in a pre-tax gain on extinguishment of debt of approximately $484 million,
which is reflected in Net loss on extinguishment of debt in the Consolidated Statement of Operations and a deferred gain of $65 million, which will be amortized as a decrease in interest
expense, and is reflected in Other long-term debt in the Consolidated Balance Sheet.   

  AIG 2011 Form 10-K            125  

Table of Contents   

      AIG
has established and maintains substantial actual and contingent liquidity.   

   The following table presents AIG Parent's liquidity:   

(a)       Excludes Cash and Short-term Investments held by AIGFP which are considered to be unrestricted and available for use by AIG Parent of
$64 million at December 31, 2011.   
       (b)      Includes reverse repurchase agreements totaling $6.6 billion used to reduce unsecured
exposures.   
       (c)      For additional information relating to the syndicated bank credit facilities, see Credit Facilities
below.   
       (d)      For additional information relating to the contingent liquidity facilities, see Contingent Liquidity Facilities
below.    

Sources of Liquidity            

      AIG's primary sources of cash flow are dividends, distributions, and other payments from subsidiaries. In 2011, AIG
Parent:   

collected $3.3 billion in payments from subsidiaries, including $1.5 billion in dividends from Chartis and
$1.4 billion in note repayments from SunAmerica funded by payments of dividends from subsidiaries;     
           raised approximately $2.9 billion in net proceeds from the sale of AIG Common Stock;     
           raised approximately $2.0 billion in net proceeds from the issuance of senior unsecured notes; and    
           arranged a $500 million contingent liquidity facility.    

These
items are discussed under Liquidity of Parent and Subsidiaries   AIG Parent above.   

      In
addition, on September 2, 2011, ILFC Holdings, an indirect, wholly-owned subsidiary of AIG, which is intended to become a holding company for ILFC, filed a registration
statement on Form S-1 with the SEC for a proposed initial public offering. The number of shares to be offered, price range and timing for any offering have not been determined. The
timing of any offering will depend on market conditions and no assurance can be given regarding the terms of any offering or that an offering will be completed. All proceeds received by AIG will be
used to pay down a portion of the liquidation preference of the Department of the Treasury's AIA SPV Preferred Interests.   

Uses of Liquidity            

      AIG Parent's primary uses of cash flow are for debt service, operating expenses and subsidiary capital needs. In 2011, AIG Parent
retired $6.2 billion of debt, including $3.2 billion of MIP obligations, and made interest payments totaling $2.2 billion. Approximately $4.4 billion of AIG Parent's cash
and short-term investments balance is attributable to the MIP and is available to meet obligations of the DIB. See Liquidity of Parent and Subsidiaries   Other
Operations   Direct Investment Book below for additional details.   

      AIG
Parent made $2.9 billion in net capital contributions to subsidiaries in 2011 (which amount reflects the $3.7 billion contributed to Chartis in response to the reserve
strengthening in the fourth quarter of 2010). This transaction was funded from the retention of $2 billion of net cash proceeds from the sale of AIG Star and AIG Edison (for which the
Department of the Treasury provided a waiver permitting AIG to use such proceeds for this purpose instead of using the proceeds to pay down the liquidation preference of the SPV Preferred Interests)
and available cash at AIG Parent.   

  126            AIG 2011 Form 10-K  

Table of Contents   

      AIG
believes that it has sufficient liquidity at the AIG Parent level to satisfy future liquidity requirements and meet its obligations, including reasonably foreseeable contingencies or
events. No assurance can be given, however, that AIG's cash needs will not exceed its projected liquidity. Additional collateral calls, deterioration in investment portfolios or reserve strengthening
affecting statutory surplus, higher surrenders of annuities and other policies, further downgrades in AIG's credit ratings, or catastrophic losses may result in significant additional cash needs, loss
of some sources of liquidity or both. Regulatory and other legal restrictions could limit AIG's ability to transfer funds freely, either to or from its subsidiaries.   

Chartis           

      AIG currently expects that its Chartis subsidiaries will be able to continue to satisfy future liquidity requirements and meet their obligations,
including reasonably foreseeable contingencies or events, through cash from operations and, to the extent necessary, asset dispositions. Chartis subsidiaries maintain substantial liquidity in the form
of cash and short-term investments, totaling $5.3 billion as of December 31, 2011. Further, Chartis businesses maintain significant levels of investment-grade fixed maturity
securities, including substantial holdings in
government and corporate bonds, which Chartis could monetize in the event liquidity levels are deemed insufficient.   

      In
the first quarter of 2011, Chartis received a capital contribution of $3.7 billion in cash from AIG Parent following the reserve strengthening in the fourth quarter of 2010.
Chartis used $1.8 billion of this amount to purchase certain assets from the DIB. Chartis subsequently returned capital of $2.2 billion to AIG Parent in the form of all of the
outstanding stock of UGC in the first quarter of 2011. In 2011, Chartis paid dividends of $1.5 billion to AIG Parent.   

      One
or more large catastrophes may require AIG to provide additional support to the affected Chartis operations. In addition, downgrades in AIG's credit ratings could put pressure on the
insurer financial strength ratings of its subsidiaries, which could result in non-renewals or cancellations by policyholders and adversely affect the relevant subsidiary's ability to meet
its own obligations, and require AIG to provide capital or liquidity support to the subsidiary. Increases in market interest rates may adversely affect the financial strength ratings of Chartis
subsidiaries, as rating agency capital models may reduce the amount of available capital relative to required capital. Other potential events that could cause a liquidity strain include economic
collapse of a nation or region significant to Chartis operations, nationalization, catastrophic terrorist acts, pandemics or other events causing economic or political upheaval.   

      In
February 2011, AIG entered into CMAs with certain Chartis domestic property and casualty insurance companies. Among other things, the CMAs provide that AIG will maintain the total
adjusted capital of these Chartis insurance companies at or above a specified minimum percentage of the companies' projected total authorized control level Risk-Based Capital (RBC) (as
defined by National Association of Insurance Commissioners (NAIC) guidelines and determined based on the companies' statutory financial statements). In addition, the CMAs also provide that if the
total adjusted capital of these Chartis insurance companies is in excess of a specified minimum percentage of their respective total authorized control level RBCs, subject to board and regulatory
approval, the companies would declare and pay ordinary dividends to their equity holders in amounts representing the excess over that required to maintain the specified minimum percentage. In February
2012, AIG and these Chartis insurance companies entered into a new, single CMA, which replaces the CMAs entered into in February 2011. Under the new CMA, the total adjusted capital and total
authorized control level RBC of these Chartis insurance companies will be measured as a group (the Fleet) rather than on an individual company basis. As a result, the new CMA provides that AIG will
maintain the total adjusted capital of the Fleet at or above a specified minimum percentage of the Fleet's projected total authorized control level RBC (as determined based on the companies' statutory
financial statements). In addition, the new CMA provides that if the total adjusted capital of the Fleet is in excess of a specified minimum percentage of the Fleet's total authorized control level
RBC, subject to board approval and regulatory requirements (including the maximum amount of ordinary dividends permitted under applicable insurance law), these Chartis insurance companies would
declare and pay ordinary dividends to their equity holders in amounts representing the excess over that required to maintain the specified minimum percentage of the Fleet's projected total authorized
control level RBC.   

  AIG 2011 Form 10-K            127  

Table of Contents   

      Chartis
continues to identify cost-effective opportunities to allocate its capital through the use of intercompany reinsurance.   

      During
September 2011, a $725 million letter of credit facility was put in place, under which Chartis and Ascot Corporate Name Limited (ACNL) acted as co-obligors.
ACNL, a Chartis subsidiary and member of the Lloyd's of London insurance syndicate (Lloyd's), is required to hold capital at Lloyd's, known as Funds at Lloyds (FAL). Under the new facility, which
supports the 2012 and 2013 years of account, the entire FAL requirement of $583 million as of December 31, 2011 was satisfied with a letter of credit.   

SunAmerica           

      Management considers the sources of liquidity for SunAmerica subsidiaries adequate to satisfy future liquidity requirements and meet foreseeable
liquidity requirements, including reasonably foreseeable contingencies or events, through cash from operations and, to the extent necessary, asset dispositions. The SunAmerica companies continue to
maintain substantial liquidity in the form of cash and short-term investments, totaling $3.8 billion as of December 31, 2011. These subsidiaries generally have been
lengthening their investment maturity profile by purchasing investment grade fixed maturity securities in order to reduce the levels of cash, cash equivalents and other short-term
instruments that had been maintained during 2009 and 2010. In 2011, the SunAmerica life insurance companies paid dividends and surplus note interest totaling approximately $2.0 billion to their
respective holding companies, of which $1.4 billion was used to provide liquidity to AIG Parent through the repayment of intercompany loans. In addition, $125 million from litigation
settlement proceeds received by SunAmerica in 2011 was used to provide liquidity to AIG Parent.   

      The
most significant potential liquidity requirements of the SunAmerica companies are the funding of product surrenders, withdrawals and maturities. Given the size and liquidity profile
of SunAmerica's investment portfolios, AIG believes that normal deviations from projected claim or surrender experience would not constitute a significant liquidity risk. As part of its risk
management framework, SunAmerica is evaluating and will implement programs to enhance its liquidity position and facilitate SunAmerica's ability to maintain a fully invested asset portfolio, including
securities lending programs structured to increase liquidity. During 2012, SunAmerica began utilizing securities lending programs, primarily as an additional source of liquidity. In addition, in 2011,
certain SunAmerica insurance companies became members of the FHLBs in their respective districts, primarily as an additional source of liquidity. This membership allows them to pledge certain
mortgage-backed securities, government and agency securities and other qualifying assets to secure advances obtained from the FHLBs. As of December 31, 2011, SunAmerica had no outstanding
borrowings from any of the FHLBs. In January 2012, however, SunAmerica borrowed $36 million from the FHLBs to confirm its ability to access this source of liquidity. Upon any potential event of
default by SunAmerica, the FHLBs' recovery would be limited to the amount of SunAmerica's liability under advances borrowed.   

      In
March 2011, AIG entered into CMAs with certain SunAmerica insurance companies. Among other things, the CMAs provide that AIG will maintain the total adjusted capital of these
SunAmerica insurance companies at or above a specified minimum percentage of the companies' projected company action level RBCs. In addition, the CMAs also provide that if the total adjusted capital
of these SunAmerica insurance companies is in excess of a specified minimum percentage of their respective total company action level RBCs, subject to board and
regulatory approval, the companies would declare and pay ordinary dividends to their respective equity holders in amounts representing the excess over that required to maintain the specified minimum
percentage. As structured, the CMAs contemplate that the specified minimum percentage would be reviewed and agreed upon at least annually.   

  128            AIG 2011 Form 10-K  

Table of Contents    

Aircraft Leasing           

      ILFC's sources of liquidity include existing cash and short-term investments of $2.0 billion, future cash flows from
operations, debt issuances, and aircraft sales, subject to market and other conditions. Uses of liquidity for ILFC primarily consist of aircraft purchases and debt repayments. In 2011, ILFC improved
its liquidity position by entering into an unsecured $2.0 billion three-year revolving credit facility and a secured $1.5 billion term loan facility. In addition, on
May 24, 2011, ILFC issued $2.25 billion aggregate principal amount of senior unsecured notes, with $1.0 billion maturing in 2016 and $1.25 billion maturing in 2019. On
June 17, 2011, ILFC completed tender offers for the purchase of approximately $1.67 billion aggregate principal amount of notes with maturity dates in 2012 and 2013 for total cash
consideration, including accrued interest, of approximately $1.75 billion. ILFC recorded a $61 million loss on the extinguishment of debt during the second quarter of 2011. On
December 22, 2011, ILFC issued $650 million aggregate principal amount of senior unsecured notes maturing in 2022. On February 6, 2012, ILFC announced that it intends to raise a
new senior secured term loan of $900 million, with the proceeds to be used to repay a portion of its outstanding debt and related interest expense and for general corporate purposes. The senior
secured term loan will be secured primarily by a first priority perfected lien on the equity of certain ILFC subsidiaries that directly or indirectly own a pool of aircraft and related leases.   

      See
Debt herein and Note 15 to the Consolidated Financial Statements for further details on ILFC's revolving credit facilities and outstanding debt.   

Other Operations           

Mortgage Guaranty            

      AIG currently expects that its UGC subsidiaries will be able to continue to satisfy future liquidity requirements and meet their
obligations, including requirements arising out of reasonably foreseeable contingencies or events, through cash from operations and, to the extent necessary, asset dispositions. UGC subsidiaries
maintain substantial liquidity in the form of cash and short-term investments, totaling $1.1 billion as of December 31, 2011. Further, UGC businesses maintain significant
levels of investment-grade fixed maturity securities, including substantial holdings in municipal and corporate bonds ($3.0 billion in the aggregate at December 31, 2011), which UGC
could monetize in the event liquidity levels are insufficient to meet obligations.   

Global Capital Markets            

      AIG Markets acts as the derivatives intermediary between AIG companies and third parties and executes its derivative trades under
International Swaps and Derivatives Association, Inc. (ISDA) agreements. The agreements with third parties typically require collateral postings. Many of AIG Markets' transactions with AIG and
its subsidiaries also include collateral posting requirements. However, generally, no collateral is called under these contracts unless it is needed to satisfy posting requirements with third parties.
The active wind-down of the AIGFP derivatives portfolio was completed by the end of the second quarter of 2011. Although the remaining AIGFP derivatives portfolio may experience periodic
fair value volatility, the portfolio consists predominantly of transactions AIG believes are of low complexity, low risk, supportive of AIG's risk management objectives or not economically appropriate
to unwind based on a cost versus benefit analysis. AIGFP continues to rely upon AIG Parent to meet most of its collateral and other liquidity requirements in connection with its remaining derivatives
portfolio.   

      Cash
collateral posted by AIG Markets to third parties was $174 million and $2 million at December 31, 2011 and 2010, respectively. Cash collateral obtained by AIG
Markets from third parties was $372 million and $1.1 billion at December 31, 2011 and 2010, respectively.   

  AIG 2011 Form 10-K            129  

Table of Contents   

   The following table presents a rollforward of the amount of collateral posted by AIGFP:     

The collateral amounts presented in the table above are reflective of counterparty netting adjustments available under master netting agreements
and is inclusive of collateral that exceeds the fair value of derivatives as of the reporting date. Collateral obtained by AIGFP from third parties was $791 million and $2.3 billion at
December 31, 2011 and 2010, respectively.   

   The following table presents the net notional amount and number of outstanding trade positions in AIGFP's portfolios:   

(a)       Excludes $10.2 billion, $11.5 billion and $40.7 billion of intercompany derivatives in 2011, 2010 and 2009, respectively.
         (b)       Excludes approximately 4,800 non-derivative trade positions that were transferred to Direct Investment book in 2010.    

Direct Investment Book            

      As of December 31, 2011, management expects the DIB's investments to provide sufficient return to fund the DIB maturing
liabilities. The DIB's investment portfolio consists primarily of cash, short term investments, fixed maturity securities issued by U.S. government and government sponsored entities, mortgage and
asset backed securities and to a lesser extent bank loans, mortgage loans and equity securities. While a significant portion of the DIB's liquidity requirements are supported by existing liquidity
sources or maturing investments, mismatches in the timing of cash inflows and outflows may require assets to be sold or AIG to access the capital markets to satisfy liquidity requirements. Depending
on market conditions and the ability to sell assets if required, proceeds from asset sales may not be sufficient to satisfy the full amount required. Management believes that sufficient liquidity is
maintained by the DIB to meet near-term liquidity requirements. Any additional liquidity shortfalls would need to be funded by AIG Parent.   

      During
2011, $1.8 billion of assets held by the DIB were sold to certain Chartis subsidiaries. In addition, during 2011, AIG assigned approximately 52 percent of AIG's
interest in ML III to the DIB, subject to liens on those interests as set forth in the Master Transaction Agreement dated December 8, 2010, among AIG Parent, AM Holdings LLC (formerly
known as ALICO Holdings LLC), AIA Aurora LLC, the FRBNY, the Department of the Treasury, and the Trust.   

      In
the third quarter of 2011, AIG issued $2.0 billion aggregate principal amount of senior unsecured notes, $1.2 billion of 4.250% Notes Due 2014 and $800 million of
4.875% Notes Due 2016. The proceeds from the sale of these notes are being used to pay maturing MIP debt and the notes are included within "MIP notes payable" in the debt outstanding table below.   

130            AIG 2011 Form 10-K  

Table of Contents   

Debt            

Debt Maturities           

   The following table summarizes maturing debt at December 31, 2011 of AIG and its subsidiaries for the next four quarters:   

AIG's plans for meeting these maturing obligations are as follows:   

ILFC's sources of liquidity available to meet these needs include existing cash and short-term investments of
$2.0 billion, future cash flows from operations, debt issuances and aircraft sales, subject to market and other conditions. See Liquidity of Parent and Subsidiaries  
Aircraft Leasing. Additionally, at December 31, 2011, ILFC had $2.0 billion available under its unsecured three-year revolving credit facility. AIG expects that ILFC will
refinance its existing debt or issue additional debt as necessary to meet its maturing debt obligations.     
           AIG borrowings supported by assets consist of debt under the MIP as well as AIGFP debt included in the DIB. Mismatches in
the timing of cash inflows on the assets and outflows with respect to the liabilities may require assets to be sold or AIG to access the capital markets to satisfy maturing liabilities. Depending on
market conditions and the ability to sell assets at that time, proceeds from sales may not be sufficient to satisfy the full amount due on maturing liabilities. Any shortfalls would need to be funded
by AIG Parent. At December 31, 2011, all of the debt maturities in the DIB through December 31, 2012 are supported by short-term investments and maturing investments.    
 
  AIG 2011 Form 10-K            131  

Table of Contents   

   The following table provides the rollforward of AIG's total debt outstanding:     

(a)       Terminated on January 14, 2011 in connection with the Recapitalization. Includes $6.4 billion of paid in-kind interest and fees.
See Note 1 to the Consolidated Financial Statements.   
       (b)      Includes $1.8 billion in new senior unsecured notes issued in exchange for junior subordinated debentures and a
$65 million deferred gain on the exchange of the Series A-1 Junior Subordinated Debentures, which will be amortized as a reduction of future interest expense. See
Note 15 to the Consolidated Financial Statements for a discussion of the junior subordinated debt exchange offer.   
       (c)      See Note 15 to the Consolidated Financial Statements for a discussion of the junior subordinated debt exchange
offer.   
       (d)      Represents remarketing of debentures related to Equity Units.
         (e)       Primarily represents adjustments to the fair value of debt.
         (f)       Includes $9.8 billion of secured financings, of which $97 million are non-recourse to
ILFC.   
       (g)      Primarily represents debt assumed related to the acquisition of AeroTurbine.
         (h)       At December 31, 2011, includes debt of consolidated investments held through AIG Global Real Estate Investment Corp., AIG Credit Corp. and SunAmerica
of $1.5 billion, $233 million and $91 million, respectively.    

132            AIG 2011 Form 10-K  

Table of Contents   

Credit Facilities            

      AIG relies on credit facilities as potential sources of liquidity for general corporate purposes. Currently, AIG and ILFC maintain committed,
revolving credit facilities, including a facility that provides for the issuance of letters of credit, summarized in the following table for general corporate purposes and for letter of credit
issuance. AIG intends to replace or extend these credit facilities on or prior to their expiration, although no assurance can be given that these facilities will be replaced on favorable terms or at
all. One of the facilities, as noted below, contains a "term-out option" allowing for the conversion by the borrower of any outstanding loans at expiration into one-year term
loans. All facilities, except for ILFC's five-year and four-year AeroTurbine syndicated credit facilities maturing October 2012 and December 2015, respectively, are unsecured.   

On October 12, 2011, the previously outstanding AIG 364-Day Syndicated Facility, AIG 3-Year Syndicated Facility and
Chartis letter of credit facility were terminated and AIG entered into a $1.5 billion 364-Day Syndicated Facility and a $3.0 billion 4-Year Syndicated Facility.
The new 4-Year Syndicated Facility provides for $3.0 billion of revolving loans, which includes a $1.5 billion letter of credit sublimit. The $1.3 billion of
previously issued letters of credit under the Chartis letter of credit facility were rolled into the letter of credit sublimit within the 4-Year Syndicated Facility, so that a total of
$1.7 billion remains available under this facility, of which $0.2 billion is available for letters of credit. AIG expects that it may draw down on these facilities from time to time, and
may use the proceeds for general corporate purposes. AIG's ability to borrow under these facilities is not contingent on its credit ratings.   

      AIG's
ability to borrow under these facilities is conditioned on the satisfaction of certain legal, operating, administrative and financial covenants and other requirements contained in
the facilities, including covenants relating to AIG's maintenance of a specified total consolidated net worth, total consolidated debt to total consolidated capitalization and total priority debt
(defined as debt of AIG's subsidiaries and secured debt of AIG) to total consolidated capitalization. Failure to satisfy these and other requirements contained in the credit facilities would restrict
AIG's access to the facilities and, consequently, could have a material adverse effect on AIG's financial condition, results of operations and liquidity.   

      ILFC's
three-year credit facility which became effective January 31, 2011 contains customary events of default and restrictive financial covenants that, among other
things, restrict ILFC from entering into secured financing in excess of 30 percent of its consolidated tangible net assets, as defined in the agreement, less $2.0 billion, excluding
fixed asset financings. As of February 21, 2012, ILFC would be able to incur an additional $3.0 billion of secured indebtedness under this covenant. Prior to April 16, 2010, ILFC
had a $2.5 billion five-year syndicated facility which was scheduled to expire in October 2011. ILFC subsequently amended and extended the facility and the $457 million
outstanding under the facility currently matures in October 2012. This facility is secured by the equity interest in certain of ILFC's non-restricted subsidiaries, which hold a pool of
aircraft with an appraised value of not less than 133 percent of the principal amount of the outstanding loans. The amended facility prohibits ILFC from re-borrowing amounts repaid
under this facility for any reason; therefore, the size of the outstanding revolving credit facility is $457 million. ILFC is also a guarantor for a $335 million four-year
credit facility entered   

  AIG 2011 Form 10-K            133  

Table of Contents   

into
by AeroTurbine, a wholly owned subsidiary of ILFC, whose assets are pledged as security for the outstanding amount. In February 2012, ILFC increased AeroTurbine's facility by $95 million
to $430 million.   

Contingent Liquidity Facilities            

      AIG has access to contingent liquidity facilities of up to $1 billion as potential sources of liquidity for general corporate
purposes:   

In 2010, AIG established a $500 million contingent liquidity facility. Under this facility, AIG has the
unconditional right, prior to December 15, 2015, to issue up to $500 million in senior debt to the counterparty, based on a put option agreement between AIG and the counterparty.    
           In October 2011, AIG entered into a contingent liquidity facility under which AIG has the right, for a period of one year,
to enter into put option agreements, with an aggregate notional amount of up to $500 million, with an unaffiliated international financial institution pursuant to which AIG has the right, for a
period of five years from the date any such put option agreement is entered into, to issue up to $500 million in senior debt to the financial institution, at AIG's discretion.    

AIG's
ability to borrow under these facilities is not contingent on its credit ratings.   

Credit Ratings            

      The cost and availability of unsecured financing for AIG and its subsidiaries are generally dependent on their short- and long-term
debt ratings. The following table presents the credit ratings of AIG and certain of its subsidiaries as of February 15, 2012. In parentheses, following the initial occurrence in the table of
each rating, is an indication of that rating's relative rank within the agency's rating categories. That ranking refers only to the generic or major rating category and not to the modifiers appended
to the rating by the rating agencies to denote relative position within such generic or major category.   

Short-Term Debt   
     
  Senior Long-Term Debt   

Moody's   
     
  S P   
     
  Moody's    (a)     
     
  S P    (b)     
     
  Fitch    (c)     

AIG  
     
  P-2 (2nd of 3)  

A-2 (2nd of 8)  
     
  Baa 1 (4th of 9)  
     
  A- (3rd of 8)  
     
  BBB (4th of 9)  

Stable Outlook   

Stable Outlook   
     
    Stable Outlook   
     
    Stable Outlook   

AIG Financial Products Corp.    (d)    
     
  P-2  

A-2  
     
  Baa 1  
     
  A-  
     
  -  

Stable Outlook   

Stable Outlook   
     
    Stable Outlook   

AIG Funding, Inc.    (d)    
     
  P-2  

A-2  
     
  -  
     
  -  
     
  -  

Stable Outlook   

ILFC  
     
  Not prime  

-  
     
  B1 (6th of 9)  
     
  BBB-(4th of 8)  
     
  BB (5th of 9)  

Positive Outlook   

Positive Outlook   
     
    Stable Outlook   
     
    Stable Outlook   

(a)       Moody's appends numerical modifiers 1, 2 and 3 to the generic rating categories to show relative position within the rating
categories.   
       (b)      S P ratings may be modified by the addition of a plus or minus sign to show relative standing within the major rating
categories.   
       (c)      Fitch ratings may be modified by the addition of a plus or minus sign to show relative standing within the major rating
categories.   
       (d)      AIG guarantees all obligations of AIG Financial Products Corp. and AIG Funding, Inc.      

These credit ratings are current opinions of the rating agencies. As such, they may be changed, suspended or withdrawn at any time by the rating
agencies as a result of changes in, or unavailability of, information or based on other circumstances. Ratings may also be withdrawn at AIG management's request. This discussion of ratings is not a
complete list of ratings of AIG and its subsidiaries.   

      "Ratings
triggers" have been defined by one independent rating agency to include clauses or agreements the outcome of which depends upon the level of ratings maintained by one or more
rating agencies. "Ratings triggers" generally relate to events that (i) could result in the termination or limitation of credit availability, or require
accelerated repayment, (ii) could result in the termination of business contracts or (iii) could require a company to post collateral for the benefit of counterparties.   

  134            AIG 2011 Form 10-K  

Table of Contents    

      Adverse ratings actions regarding our long-term debt ratings by the major rating agencies would require AIGFP to post additional collateral payments
pursuant to, and/or permit the termination of, derivative transactions to which AIGFP is a party, which could adversely affect AIG's business, its consolidated results of operations in a reporting
period or its liquidity. Credit ratings estimate a company's ability to meet its obligations and may directly affect the cost and availability to that company of financing. In the event of a further
downgrade of AIG's long-term senior debt ratings, AIGFP would be required to post additional collateral, and certain of AIGFP's counterparties would be permitted to elect early termination
of contracts.   

      The
actual amount of collateral required to be posted to counterparties in the event of such downgrades, or the aggregate amount of payments that AIG could be required to make, depends
on market conditions, the fair value of outstanding affected transactions and other factors prevailing at the time of the downgrade.   

See
Notes 12 and 15 to the Consolidated Financial Statements for further details on AIG's derivative transactions and GIA collateral arrangements.   

Contractual Obligations            

   The following table summarizes contractual obligations in total, and by remaining maturity:   

(a)       Primarily includes contracts to purchase future services and other capital expenditures.   
       (b)      Does not reflect unrecognized tax benefits of $4.3 billion, the timing of which is uncertain. In addition, the majority of
AIGFP's credit default swaps require AIGFP to provide credit protection on a designated portfolio of loans or debt securities. At December 31, 2011, the fair value derivative liability was
$3.1 billion, relating to AIGFP's super senior multi-sector CDO credit default swap portfolio, realized in extinguishing derivative obligations. Due to the long-term maturities of
these credit default swaps, AIG is unable to make reasonable estimates of the periods during which any payments would be made. However, at December 31, 2011 AIGFP had posted collateral of
$2.7 billion with respect to these swaps.    

Loss Reserves           

      Loss reserves relate to the Chartis and the Mortgage Guaranty business, and represent future loss and loss adjustment expense payments estimated
based on historical loss development payment patterns. Due to the significance of the assumptions used, the payments by period presented above could be materially different from actual required
payments.   

      Management
believes that adequate financial resources are maintained by the individual Chartis and UGC subsidiaries to meet the actual required payments under these obligations. These
subsidiaries maintain substantial liquidity in the form of cash and short-term investments. Further, these businesses maintain significant levels of investment-grade fixed income
securities, including substantial holdings in government and
corporate bonds (see Investments herein), which Chartis and UGC could seek to monetize in the event operating cash flows are insufficient. See Capital Resources and Liquidity  
Analysis of Sources and Uses of Cash and Capital Resources and Liquidity   Liquidity of Parent and Subsidiaries for matters that could affect operating cash flows and liquidity of
these subsidiaries.   

  AIG 2011 Form 10-K            135  

Table of Contents   

Insurance and Investment Contract Liabilities           

      Insurance and investment contract liabilities, including GIC liabilities, relate to SunAmerica businesses and include various
investment-type products with contractually scheduled maturities, including periodic payments of a term certain nature. Insurance and investment contract liabilities also include benefit
and claim liabilities, of which a significant portion represents policies and contracts that do not have stated contractual maturity dates and may not result in any future payment obligations. For
these policies and contracts (i) AIG is currently not making payments until the occurrence of an insurable event, such as death or disability, (ii) payments are conditional on
survivorship or (iii) payment may occur due to a surrender or other non-scheduled event out of AIG's control.   

      AIG
has made significant assumptions to determine the estimated undiscounted cash flows of these contractual policy benefits, which assumptions include mortality, morbidity, future lapse
rates, expenses, investment returns and interest crediting rates, offset by expected future deposits and premiums on in-force policies. Due to the significance of the assumptions used, the
periodic amounts presented could be materially different from actual required payments. The amounts presented in this table are undiscounted and therefore exceed the future policy benefits and
policyholder contract deposits included in the Consolidated Balance Sheet.   

      Management
believes that adequate financial resources are maintained by individual SunAmerica subsidiaries to meet the payments actually required under these obligations. These
subsidiaries maintain substantial liquidity in the form of cash and short-term investments. In addition, SunAmerica businesses maintain significant levels of investment-grade fixed income
securities, including substantial holdings in government and corporate bonds (see Investments herein), which SunAmerica could seek to monetize in the event operating cash flows are insufficient.
Liquidity needs for GIC liabilities are generally expected to be funded through cash flows generated from maturities and sales of invested assets. See Capital Resources and
Liquidity   Analysis of Sources and Uses of Cash and Capital Resources and Liquidity   Liquidity of Parent and Subsidiaries herein for matters that could affect
operating cash flows and liquidity of the subsidiaries.   

Aircraft Purchase Commitments           

      At December 31, 2011, ILFC had committed to purchase 232 new aircraft and 26 additional aircraft, mostly through sale-leaseback
transactions with airlines, deliverable from 2012 through 2019, with aggregate estimated total remaining payments of approximately $19.0 billion, of which $1.9 billion are coming due in
2012. ILFC also has the right to purchase an additional 50 Airbus aircraft. See Note 16 to the Consolidated Financial Statements, and Capital Resources and Liquidity  
Liquidity of Parent and Subsidiaries   Aircraft Leasing herein.   

Borrowings           

      AIG's borrowings exclude those incurred by consolidated investments and include hybrid financial instrument liabilities recorded at fair value.
The repayment of long-term debt maturities and interest accrued on borrowings by AIG and its subsidiaries is expected to be made through maturing investments and asset sales, future cash
flows from operations, cash flows generated from invested assets, future debt issuance and other financing arrangements, as more fully described in Capital Resources and Liquidity  
Liquidity of Parent and Subsidiaries herein.   

  136            AIG 2011 Form 10-K  

Table of Contents   

Off-Balance Sheet Arrangements and Commercial Commitments            

   The following table summarizes Off-Balance Sheet Arrangements and Commercial Commitments in total, and by remaining maturity:   

(a)       Primarily represents liquidity facilities provided in connection with certain municipal swap transactions and collateralized bond
obligations.   
       (b)      Includes residual value guarantees associated with aircraft and SunAmerica construction guarantees connected to affordable housing
investments. Excludes potential amounts attributable to indemnification obligations included in asset sales agreements. See Note 16 to the Consolidated Financial
Statements.   
       (c)      Includes commitments to invest in private equity, hedge funds and mutual funds and commitments to purchase and develop real estate in
the United States and abroad. The commitments to invest in private equity funds, hedge funds and other funds are called at the discretion of each fund, as needed for funding new investments or
expenses of the fund. The expiration of these commitments is estimated in the table above based on the expected life cycle of the related fund, consistent with past trends of requirements for funding.
Investors under these commitments are primarily insurance and real estate subsidiaries.   
       (d)      Excludes commitments with respect to pension plans. The annual pension contribution for 2012 is expected to be approximately
$91 million for U.S. and non-U.S. plans.   
       (e)      Does not include guarantees, capital maintenance agreements or other support arrangements among AIG consolidated
entities.    

Securities Financing           

      The fair value of securities transferred under repurchase agreements accounted for as sales was $2.1 billion and $2.7 billion at
December 31, 2011 and December 31, 2010, respectively, and the related cash collateral obtained was $1.6 billion and $2.1 billion at December 31, 2011 and
December 31, 2010, respectively.   

Arrangements with Variable Interest Entities           

      While AIG enters into various arrangements with variable interest entities (VIEs) in the normal course of business, AIG's involvement with VIEs is
primarily as a passive investor in fixed maturities (rated and unrated) and equity interests issued by VIEs. AIG consolidates a VIE when it is the primary beneficiary of the entity. For a further
discussion of AIG's involvement with VIEs, see Notes 2 and 11 to the Consolidated Financial Statements.   

Indemnification Agreements           

      AIG is subject to financial guarantees and indemnity arrangements in connection with the sales of businesses completed pursuant to its asset
disposition plan. The various arrangements may be triggered by, among other things, declines in asset values, the occurrence of specified business contingencies, the realization of contingent
liabilities, developments in litigation, or breaches of representations, warranties or covenants provided by AIG. These arrangements are typically subject to various time limitations, defined by the
contract or by operation of law, such as statutes of limitation. In some cases, the maximum potential obligation is subject to contractual limitations, while in other cases no such limitation is
specified or applicable.   

  AIG 2011 Form 10-K            137  

Table of Contents   

      Where
estimable, AIG has recorded liabilities for certain of these arrangements. These liabilities are not material in the aggregate. AIG is unable to develop a reasonable estimate of
the maximum potential payout under certain of these arrangements. Overall, AIG believes that it is unlikely it will have to make any material payments related to completed sales under these
arrangements. See Note 16 to the Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information regarding indemnification provisions for the ALICO, AGF, AIG Star and AIG Edison sales.   

DIVIDENDS FROM INSURANCE SUBSIDIARIES   

      Payments of dividends to AIG by its insurance subsidiaries are subject to certain restrictions imposed by regulatory authorities. With respect to
AIG's domestic insurance subsidiaries, the payment of any dividend requires formal notice to the insurance department in which the particular insurance subsidiary is domiciled. For example, unless
permitted by the New York Superintendent of Insurance, general insurance companies domiciled in New York may not pay dividends to shareholders that, in any 12-month period, exceed the
lesser of ten percent of such company's statutory policyholders' surplus or 100 percent of its "adjusted net investment income," as defined. Generally, less severe restrictions applicable to
both general and life insurance companies exist in most of the other states in which AIG's insurance subsidiaries are domiciled. Under the laws of many states, an insurer may pay a dividend without
prior approval of the insurance regulator when the amount of the dividend is below certain regulatory thresholds. Other foreign jurisdictions may restrict the ability of AIG's foreign insurance
subsidiaries to pay dividends. There are also various local restrictions limiting cash loans and advances to AIG by its subsidiaries. Largely as a result of these restrictions, approximately
86 percent of the aggregate equity of AIG's consolidated insurance operations was restricted from transfer to AIG Parent at December 31, 2011. AIG cannot predict how regulatory
investigations may affect the ability of its regulated subsidiaries to pay dividends. To AIG's knowledge, no AIG insurance company is currently on any regulatory or similar "watch list" with regard to
solvency.   

REGULATION AND SUPERVISION   

      AIG's insurance subsidiaries, like other insurers, are subject to regulation and supervision by the states and jurisdictions in which they do
business. AIG Parent is not generally subject to supervision by state regulators, but certain transactions, such as those involving statutorily designated transactions with its insurance company
subsidiaries and any transaction involving a change in control of AIG or any of its insurance company subsidiaries, may require the prior approval of state regulators. In the United States, the NAIC
has developed Risk-Based Capital (RBC) Model Law requirements. RBC relates an individual insurance company's statutory surplus to the risk inherent in its overall operations.   

      AIG's
insurance subsidiaries file financial statements prepared in accordance with statutory accounting practices prescribed or permitted by domestic and foreign insurance regulatory
authorities. The principal differences between statutory financial statements for domestic companies and financial statements prepared in accordance with U.S. GAAP are that in statutory
financial statements acquisition costs are expensed instead of being deferred, a large portion of the bond portfolios may be carried at amortized cost, securities are valued on a different basis,
assets and liabilities are presented net of reinsurance, policyholder liabilities are valued using more conservative assumptions and certain assets are not admitted under statutory accounting
practices and are charged directly to surplus. Further, statutory accounting practices do not give recognition to purchase accounting adjustments and require certain other reserves not required by
U.S. GAAP.   

      As
discussed under Note 16(a) to the Consolidated Financial Statements, various regulators have commenced investigations into certain insurance business practices. In addition,
insurance regulators routinely conduct examinations of AIG and its subsidiaries. AIG cannot predict the ultimate effect that these investigations and examinations, or any additional regulation arising
therefrom, might have on its business. Federal, state or local legislation, including Dodd-Frank, may affect AIG's ability to operate its various financial services businesses, and changes
in the current laws, regulations or interpretations thereof may have a material adverse effect on these businesses. See Item 1A. Risk Factors for additional information.   

  138            AIG 2011 Form 10-K  

Table of Contents   

      AIG's
U.S. operations are subject to guarantee fund assessment laws which exist in most states. As a result of operating in a state that has guarantee fund assessment laws, a solvent
insurance company may be assessed for certain obligations arising from the insolvencies of other insurance companies operated in that state. AIG generally records these assessments upon notice.
Additionally, certain states permit at least a portion of the assessed amount to be used as a credit against a company's future premium tax liabilities. Therefore, the ultimate net assessment cannot
reasonably be estimated. The guarantee fund assessments net of credits recognized in 2011, 2010 and 2009, respectively, were $7 million, $16 million and $18 million.   

      AIG
is also required to participate in various involuntary pools (principally workers' compensation business and, internationally, personal automobile business) that provide insurance
coverage for those not able to obtain such coverage in the voluntary markets. This participation is also recorded upon notification, as these amounts cannot reasonably be estimated.   

      A
substantial portion of Chartis' business is conducted in foreign countries. The degree of regulation and supervision in foreign jurisdictions varies. Generally, AIG, as well as the
underwriting companies operating in such jurisdictions, must satisfy local regulatory requirements. Licenses issued by foreign authorities to AIG subsidiaries
are subject to modification and revocation. Thus, AIG's insurance subsidiaries could be prevented from conducting future business in certain of the jurisdictions where they currently operate. AIG's
international operations include operations in various developing nations. Both current and future foreign operations could be adversely affected by unfavorable political developments up to and
including nationalization of AIG's operations without compensation. Adverse effects resulting from any one country may affect AIG's results of operations, liquidity and financial condition depending
on the magnitude of the event and AIG's net financial exposure at that time in that country.   

      Foreign
insurance operations are individually subject to local solvency margin requirements that require maintenance of adequate capitalization, with which AIG complies in each country.
In addition, certain foreign locations, notably Japan, have established regulations that can result in guarantee fund assessments. These have not had a material effect on AIG's financial condition or
results of operations.   

      See
Note 18 to the Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information.   

INVESTMENTS    

INVESTMENT STRATEGIES   

      AIG's investment strategies are tailored to the specific business needs of each operating unit. The investment objectives are driven by the
business model for each of the businesses: general insurance, life insurance, retirement services and the Direct Investment book. The primary objectives are generation of investment income,
preservation of capital, liquidity management and growth of surplus to support the insurance products.   

At
the local operating unit level, investment strategies are based on considerations that include the local market, liability duration and cash flow characteristics, rating agency and
regulatory capital considerations, legal investment limitations, tax optimization and diversification.   

      The
majority of assets backing insurance liabilities at AIG consist of intermediate and long duration fixed maturity securities. In the case of life insurance and retirement services
companies, as well as in the Direct Investment
book, the fundamental investment strategy is, as nearly as is practicable, to match the duration characteristics of the liabilities with assets of comparable duration. Domestically, fixed maturity
securities held by the insurance companies included in Chartis historically have consisted primarily of laddered holdings of tax-exempt municipal bonds, which provided attractive
after-tax returns and limited credit risk. In order to meet the current risk-return and tax objectives of Chartis, the domestic property and casualty companies have begun to
shift investment allocations away from tax-exempt municipal bonds towards taxable instruments which meet the companies' liquidity, duration and credit quality objectives as well as current
risk-return and tax objectives. Outside of the U.S., fixed maturity securities held by Chartis companies consist primarily of intermediate duration high-grade securities.   

  AIG 2011 Form 10-K            139  

Table of Contents    

      The market price of fixed maturity securities reflects numerous components, including interest rate environment, credit spread, embedded optionality (such as call
features), liquidity, structural complexity, foreign exchange risk and other credit and non-credit factors. However, in most circumstances, pricing is most sensitive to interest rates,
such that the market price declines as interest rates rise, and increases as interest rates fall. This effect is more pronounced for longer duration securities.   

AIG
accounts for the vast majority of the invested assets held by its insurance companies at fair value. However, with limited exceptions (primarily with respect to separate account
products on AIG's Consolidated Balance Sheet), AIG does not modify the fair value of its insurance liabilities for changes in interest rates, even though rising interest rates have the effect of
reducing the fair value of such liabilities, and falling interest rates have the opposite effect. This results in the recording of changes in unrealized gains (losses) on securities in Accumulated
other comprehensive income resulting from changes in interest rates without any correlative, inverse changes in gains (losses) on AIG's liabilities.   

      At
December 31, 2011, approximately 88 percent of the fixed maturity securities were held by domestic entities. Approximately 21 percent of such securities were
rated AAA by one or more of the principal rating agencies. Approximately 13 percent were below investment grade or not rated. AIG's investment decision process relies primarily on internally
generated fundamental analysis and internal risk ratings. Third-party rating services' ratings and opinions provide one source of independent perspective for consideration in the internal analysis.   

      A
significant portion of the foreign fixed maturity portfolio is rated by Moody's, S P or similar foreign rating services. Rating services are not available in all overseas locations.
AIG's Credit Risk Management department closely reviews the credit quality of the foreign portfolio's non-rated fixed maturity securities. At December 31, 2011, approximately
26 percent of the foreign fixed maturity investments were either rated AAA or, on the basis of AIG's internal analysis, were equivalent from a credit standpoint to securities so rated.
Approximately 3 percent were below investment grade or not rated at that date. Approximately 51 percent of the foreign fixed maturity portfolio are sovereign fixed maturity securities
supporting policy liabilities in the country of issuance.   

INVESTMENT HIGHLIGHTS   

      During 2011, significant volatility in the capital markets resulted in challenging conditions, both domestically and globally.
Ten-year U.S. Treasuries dropped to historic lows as rates were down 142 basis points, settling at 1.88 percent at the end of the year. Rates were mixed as Germany, France, and
other perceived strong economies followed the downward direction of U.S. rates, while countries such as Greece, Spain, and Italy saw a significant increase in their borrowing costs due to rising
concerns over their fiscal situations. Equity markets started the year strongly, and were positive in the first half of the year before turning negative in the second half as the European sovereign
debt crisis intensified, catastrophe losses approached record levels, unemployment remained at elevated levels, and a continued political standoff over measures addressing the U.S. deficit led to the
first ever downgrade of U.S. sovereign debt. Domestic equity markets were flat for the year, outperforming their foreign counterparts. The performance in equity markets for 2011 stood in contrast to
2010, during which most markets recorded positive returns. The swing from positive to negative equity market performance, combined with capital markets volatility and a historically low interest rate
environment in the U.S., resulted in lower net investment income in 2011 compared to 2010.   

      An
overview of investment activities during 2011 is provided below:   

Asset Composition            

Insurance operations purchased approximately $92 billion of fixed maturity securities. The purchases were made
using proceeds from sales and maturity of securities, paydowns on structured securities, cash flow from operations and investments, and from the redeployment of existing cash and
short-term investments. Short-term investments were redeployed into approximately $23 billion of higher yielding fixed maturity securities during 2011.    
           Corporate debt (primarily high grade) represented approximately half of new purchases. Risk-weighted
opportunistic investments in structured securities continued to be made to improve yields and increase net    

140            AIG 2011 Form 10-K  

Table of Contents   

investment
income. The amount of such purchases totaled approximately $11 billion. The 2011 purchases of structured securities largely replaced similar assets sold on behalf of SunAmerica in
2010. In the case of Chartis, these purchases of structured securities were part of a deliberate diversification of the asset portfolio of the domestic property and casualty companies.   

Base yields at Chartis were higher in 2011 compared to 2010 due to redeployment activities and the increase due to
investments in structured securities. SunAmerica base yields were lower as new money rates were generally lower than on maturing or called investments; however, the impact was largely offset by the
effect of cash redeployment.     
           A strategic decision was made to reduce the tax-exempt municipal bond portfolio exposure, resulting in an
approximate decrease of $12 billion in the carrying value (30 percent) of this asset class during the course of the year.    

Net Investment Income            

Income on private equity and hedge funds was approximately $1.3 billion (7 percent yield) in 2011, compared
to $1.7 billion (9 percent yield) in 2010 which directionally followed the equity market trends as $1.2 billion of income was recognized in the first half of the year. Private
equity funds drove the positive results in 2011 as hedge funds were only marginally positive for the year. In 2010, hedge funds and private equity funds each yielded approximately 9 percent.    
           The fair value change for the Maiden Lane Interests turned negative in 2011 due to widening spread trends and negative
changes in future cash flow projections. The fair value change for 2011 was a loss of $0.6 billion compared to a gain of $2.3 billion for 2010.     
           The fair value of AIA ordinary shares increased by $1.3 billion as the stock price appreciated 11 percent in
2011 compared to a decrease in 2010 which resulted in a loss of $0.6 billion in 2010. The 11 percent appreciation on the stock compared favorably to the 20 percent decline
experienced in the Hang Seng Index.    

Unrealized and Realized Gains and Losses            

Lower yields across most asset classes resulted in an increase of approximately $5.5 billion of unrealized
appreciation on AIG's available for sale securities in 2011. This was slightly lower than the 2010 period. 2010 benefited from improving economic conditions in the post recession period.    
           Net realized gains on the sales of fixed maturity securities and equities totaled $2.1 billion in 2011 compared to
$2.6 billion in 2010. Current year results consist primarily of gains on the sales of tax exempt municipal securities and corporate debt.     
           Other-than-temporary impairments were $1.3 billion in 2011 compared to $3.0 billion
in 2010, primarily related to impairments recorded on the mortgage backed, asset backed and collateralized portfolio in both periods.    

The
credit ratings in the table below and in subsequent tables reflect for AIG's fixed maturity investments: (a) a composite of the ratings of the three major rating agencies or
where agency ratings are not available, the rating assigned by the National Association of Insurance Commissioners (NAIC) Securities Valuations Office (SVO) (over 97 percent of total fixed
maturity investments), or (b) AIG's equivalent internal ratings where these investments have not been rated by any of the major rating agencies or the NAIC. AIG changed to a composite ratings
methodology during 2011 in order to reduce reliance on any single rating agency, and ratings information for prior periods presented has been conformed to this method. The "Non-rated"
category in those tables consists of fixed maturity investments that have not been rated by any of the major rating agencies, the NAIC or AIG, and represents primarily AIG's interest in ML III.   

      See
Enterprise Risk Management herein for a discussion of credit risks associated with Investments.   

  AIG 2011 Form 10-K            141  

Table of Contents   

   The following table presents the credit ratings of AIG's fixed maturity investments based on fair value:   

The remainder of Investments is organized as follows:     

142            AIG 2011 Form 10-K  

Table of Contents   

INVESTMENTS BY SEGMENT   

The following tables summarize the composition of AIG's investments by reportable segment:     

(a)       At December 31, 2011, approximately 90 percent and 10 percent of investments were held by domestic and foreign entities, respectively,
compared to approximately 85 percent and 15 percent, respectively, at December 31, 2010.   
       (b)      Total invested assets of businesses held for sale amounted to $96.3 billion and are excluded. See Note 4 to the
Consolidated Financial Statements.   
       (c)      Includes $12.4 billion and $11.1 billion of AIA ordinary shares at December 31, 2011 and December 31,
2010, respectively.    
  AIG 2011 Form 10-K            143  

Table of Contents   

Chartis            

      In AIG's general insurance business, the duration of liabilities for long-tail casualty lines is greater than other lines. As
differentiated from the life insurance and retirement services companies, the focus is not on asset-liability matching, but on preservation of capital and growth of surplus.   

Fixed
income holdings of Chartis domestic operations, with an average duration of 4.3 years, are currently comprised primarily of tax-exempt securities, which provide
attractive risk-adjusted after-tax returns as well as taxable municipal bonds, government bonds and agency and corporate securities. The majority of these high quality
investments are rated A or higher.   

      Fixed
income assets held in Chartis foreign operations are of high quality and short to intermediate duration, averaging 4 years.   

      While
invested assets backing reserves are invested in conventional fixed income securities in Chartis domestic operations, a modest portion of surplus is allocated to large
capitalization, high-dividend, public equity strategies and to alternative investments, including private equity and hedge funds. Notwithstanding the current environment, these investments
have provided a combination of added diversification and attractive long-term returns over time.   

SunAmerica            

      With respect to SunAmerica companies, AIG uses asset-liability management as a tool to determine the composition of the invested assets. AIG's
objective is to maintain a matched asset-liability structure, although AIG may occasionally determine that it is economically advantageous to be temporarily in an unmatched position. To the extent
that AIG has maintained a matched asset-liability structure, the economic effect of interest rate fluctuations is partially mitigated.   

      AIG's
investment strategy for SunAmerica is to produce cash flows greater than maturing insurance liabilities. There exists a future investment risk associated with certain policies
currently in-force which will have premium receipts in the future. That is, the investment of these future premium receipts may be at a yield below that required to meet future policy
liabilities.   

      SunAmerica
frequently reviews its interest rate assumptions and actively manages the crediting rates used for its new and in force business. Business strategies continue to evolve to
maintain profitability of the overall business.   

      The
investment of insurance cash flows and reinvestment of the proceeds of matured securities and coupons requires active management of investment yields while maintaining satisfactory
investment quality and liquidity.   

      A
number of guaranteed benefits, such as living benefits and guaranteed minimum death benefits, are offered on certain variable and indexed annuity products. The fair value of these
benefits is measured based on actuarial and capital market assumptions related to projected cash flows over the expected lives of the contracts. SunAmerica manages its exposure resulting from these
long-term guarantees through reinsurance or capital market hedging instruments. SunAmerica actively reviews underlying assumptions of policyholder behavior and persistency related to these
guarantees. SunAmerica has taken positions in certain derivative financial instruments in order to hedge the impact of changes in equity markets and interest rates on these benefit guarantees.
SunAmerica executes listed futures and options contracts on equity indexes to hedge certain guarantees of variable and indexed annuity products. SunAmerica also enters into various types of futures
and options contracts, primarily to hedge changes in value of certain guarantees of variable and indexed annuities due to fluctuations in interest rates. SunAmerica uses several instruments to hedge
interest rate exposure, including listed futures on government securities, listed options on government securities and, beginning in 2012, the purchase of government securities.   

      With
respect to over-the-counter derivatives, SunAmerica deals with highly rated counterparties and does not expect the counterparties to fail to meet their
obligations under the contracts. SunAmerica has controls in place to monitor credit exposures by limiting transactions with specific counterparties within specified dollar limits and   

  144            AIG 2011 Form 10-K  

Table of Contents   

  assessing
the creditworthiness of counterparties periodically. SunAmerica generally uses ISDA Master Agreements and Credit Support Annexes (CSAs) with bilateral collateral provisions to reduce
counterparty credit exposures.   

Other Operations            

Global Capital Markets           

      The active wind-down of the AIGFP derivatives portfolio was completed by the end of the second quarter of 2011. AIGFP derivative
transactions are carried at fair value. AIGFP reduces its market risk exposure through similarly valued offsetting transactions including swaps, trading securities, options, forwards and futures. For
discussion on the use of derivatives by AIGFP, see Note 12 to the Consolidated Financial Statements.   

Direct Investment book           

      The DIB, which includes the Matched Investment Program and non-derivative assets and liabilities of AIGFP, was originally created to
generate spread income from investments yielding greater returns than the related cost of funds. The DIB's investment portfolio, which has a carrying value on the Consolidated Balance Sheet of
$27.5 billion, consists primarily of cash, short term investments, fixed maturity securities issued by U.S. government and government sponsored entities, mortgage and asset backed securities
and to a lesser extent bank loans, mortgage loans and equity securities. Although the DIB is in wind-down, the investment strategy remains focused on maximizing the value of the portfolio
while producing sufficient liquidity to meet the obligations of the DIB. The management of the DIB investment portfolio seeks to minimize interest rate, currency, commodity and equity risk associated
with the investment strategy by utilizing derivatives. The use of these derivatives does not qualify for hedge accounting treatment; although, management believes these provide appropriate economic
hedges of the underlying risk within the investment portfolio.   

      Further,
management seeks to maximize the value of the investment portfolio through an ongoing evaluation of each position in determining whether to hold, sell or finance the investments
in furtherance of the strategy, which includes both immediate and long term liquidity needs.   

      The
investments of the DIB are all generally carried at fair value with the exception of loans and notes receivable held by MIP of $1.1 billion, which are carried at amortized
cost and evaluated for impairment each period. The investments of AIGFP are generally subject to the fair value option with all changes in fair value recorded in earnings. The investments within the
MIP are generally available-for-sale securities, where changes in fair value are presented in unrealized appreciation (depreciation) of investments, net of taxes, as a
component of Accumulated other comprehensive income which are subject to impairment review each period.   

  AIG 2011 Form 10-K            145  

Table of Contents   

AVAILABLE FOR SALE INVESTMENTS   

   The following table presents the amortized cost or cost and fair value of AIG's available for sale securities and other invested assets carried at fair
value:   

(a)       Represents the amount of other-than-temporary impairment losses recognized in Accumulated other comprehensive income. This amount
includes unrealized gains and losses on impaired securities relating to changes in the value of such securities subsequent to the impairment measurement
date.   
       (b)      At December 31, 2011 and 2010, bonds available for sale held by AIG that were below investment grade or not rated totaled
$24.2 billion and $18.6 billion, respectively.   
       (c)      Represents private equity and hedge fund investments carried at fair value for which unrealized gains and losses are required to be
recognized in other comprehensive income.   
       (d)      Excludes $80.5 billion of available for sale securities at fair value from businesses held for sale at December 31,
2010. Net unrealized gain attributable to businesses held for sale totaled $604 million at December 31, 2010. See Note 4 to the Consolidated Financial
Statements.    

  146            AIG 2011 Form 10-K  

Table of Contents   

   The following table presents the fair value of AIG's available for sale U.S. municipal bond portfolio by state and
type:   

(a)       Excludes certain university and not- for- profit entities that issue in the corporate debt market. Includes industrial revenue
bonds.
         (b)       Includes $5.7 billion of pre-refunded municipal bonds.      

At December 31, 2011, the U.S. municipal bond portfolio was composed primarily of essential service revenue bonds and
high-quality tax -backed bonds with 97 percent of the portfolio rated A or higher.   

   The following table presents the industry categories of AIG's available for sale corporate debt securities based on amortized cost:   

(a)       Excludes corporate debt of businesses held for sale.
         (b)       At December 31, 2011 and 2010, approximately 95 percent and 93 percent, respectively, of these investments were rated investment
grade.    
  AIG 2011 Form 10-K            147  

Table of Contents    

Investments in RMBS            

   The following table presents AIG's RMBS investments by year of vintage:   

*       Includes foreign and jumbo RMBS-related securities.    

148            AIG 2011 Form 10-K  

Table of Contents   

The following table presents AIG's RMBS investments by credit rating:   

(a)       The weighted average expected life is 6 years at both December 31, 2011 and December 31,
2010.   
       (b)      Commencing in the second quarter of 2011, AIG purchased certain RMBS securities that had experienced deterioration in credit quality
since their origination. See Note 7 to the Consolidated Financial Statements, Investments   Net Realized Capital Gains and Losses - Purchased Credit Impaired
(PCI) Securities, for additional discussion.    

AIG's underwriting practices for investing in RMBS, other asset-backed securities and CDOs take into consideration the quality of the originator,
the manager, the servicer, security credit ratings, underlying characteristics of the mortgages, borrower characteristics, and the level of credit enhancement in the transaction.   

  AIG 2011 Form 10-K            149  

Table of Contents   

Investments in CMBS            

   The following table presents the amortized cost, gross unrealized gains (losses) and fair value of AIG's CMBS investments:   

The following table presents AIG's CMBS investments by year of vintage:   

The following table presents AIG's CMBS investments by credit rating:   

150            AIG 2011 Form 10-K  

Table of Contents   

The following table presents the percentage of AIG's CMBS investments by geographic region based on amortized
cost:   

*       Includes Non-U.S. locations.    

The following table presents the percentage of AIG's CMBS investments by industry based on amortized cost:   

*       Includes Agency-backed CMBS.      

Although the market value of CMBS holdings has remained stable during 2011, the portfolio continues to be below amortized cost. The majority of
AIG's investments in CMBS are in tranches that contain adequate protection features through collateral subordination. As indicated in the tables, downgrades have occurred on many CMBS holdings. The
majority of CMBS holdings are traditional conduit transactions, broadly diversified across property types and geographical areas.   

  AIG 2011 Form 10-K            151  

Table of Contents    

Investments in CDOs            

   The following table presents AIG's CDO investments by collateral type:   

The following table presents AIG's CDO investments by credit rating:   

COMMERCIAL MORTGAGE LOANS   

      At December 31, 2011, AIG had direct commercial mortgage loan exposure of $13.6 billion. At that date, over 98 percent of the
loans were current.   

   The following table presents the commercial mortgage loan exposure by state and class of loan:   

*       Excludes portfolio valuation losses.    

152            AIG 2011 Form 10-K  

Table of Contents   

AIA EQUITY INVESTMENT   

At December 31, 2011, AIG's equity method investments included a 33 percent interest in AIA with a total carrying value of
$12.4 billion which is recorded in Other invested assets and accounted for under the fair value option.   

      The
value of the AIA shares will fluctuate until the ultimate disposition by AIG of the AIA shares. The value of the AIA shares will rise and fall in response to various factors beyond
the control of AIG, including the business and financial performance of AIA. The agreement with the underwriters precludes AIG from entering into hedging transactions that might protect AIG against
fluctuations in the value of one-half of its remaining interest in AIA through April 18, 2012.   

IMPAIRMENTS   

   The following table presents investment impairments by type:   

(a)       Aircraft Trusts impairment is recorded in other expenses
         (b)       Real estate impairment is recorded in other income.      

AIG 2011 Form 10-K            153  

Table of Contents   

Other-Than-Temporary Impairments            

   The following tables present other-than-temporary impairment charges in earnings, excluding impairments on life settlement contracts and real estate
shown above.   

Other-than-temporary impairment by segment and type of impairment:            

154            AIG 2011 Form 10-K  

Table of Contents   

Other-than-temporary impairment charges by type of security and type of impairment:            

*       Includes other-than-temporary impairment charges on private equity funds, hedge funds and direct private equity
investments.    

AIG 2011 Form 10-K            155  

Table of Contents   

Other-than-temporary impairment charges by type of security and credit rating:            

*       Includes other-than-temporary impairment charges on private equity funds, hedge funds and direct private equity
investments.    

Determinations of other-than-temporary impairments are based on fundamental credit analyses of individual securities
without regard to rating agency ratings. Based on this analysis, AIG expects to receive cash flows sufficient to cover the amortized cost of all below investment grade securities for which credit
losses were not recognized.   

      AIG
recorded other-than-temporary impairment charges in 2011, 2010 and 2009 related to:   

securities for which AIG has changed its intent from hold to sell;     
           declines due to foreign exchange rates;     
           issuer-specific credit events;     
           certain structured securities;     
           other impairments, including equity securities, private equity funds, hedge funds, direct private equity investments,
aircraft trusts and investments in life settlement contracts; and     
           securities that experienced severe market valuation declines.    

With
respect to the issuer-specific credit events shown above, no other-than-temporary impairment charge with respect to any one single credit was significant to
AIG's consolidated financial condition or results of operations, and no individual other-than-temporary impairment charge exceeded 0.2 percent, 0.2 percent and
0.1 percent of total equity in 2011, 2010 and 2009, respectively.   

  156            AIG 2011 Form 10-K  

Table of Contents   

      In
periods subsequent to the recognition of an other-than-temporary impairment charge for available for sale fixed maturity securities that is not foreign
exchange related, AIG generally prospectively accretes into earnings the difference between the new amortized cost and the expected undiscounted recovery value over the remaining expected holding
period of the security. The amounts of accretion recognized in earnings for 2011, 2010 and 2009 were $542 million, $401 million and $735 million, respectively. For a discussion of
recent accounting standards affecting fair values and other-than-temporary impairments, see Notes 2 and 7 to the Consolidated Financial Statements.   

An aging of the pre-tax unrealized losses of fixed maturity and equity securities, distributed as a percentage of cost relative to unrealized loss (the extent by
which the fair value is less than amortized cost or cost), including the number of respective items was as follows:   

(a)       Represents the number of consecutive months that fair value has been less than cost by any amount.
         (b)       Represents the percentage by which fair value is less than cost at December 31, 2011.
         (c)       For bonds, represents amortized cost.
         (d)       The effect on Net income of unrealized losses after taxes will be mitigated upon realization because certain realized losses will result in current
decreases in the amortization of certain DAC.
         (e)       Item count is by CUSIP by subsidiary.      

For 2011, net unrealized gains related to fixed maturity and equity securities increased by $5.4 billion primarily resulting from the
narrowing of credit spreads.   

      As
of December 31, 2011, the majority of AIG's fixed maturity investments in an unrealized loss position of more than 50 percent for 12 months or more consisted of
the unrealized loss of $464 million related to CMBS and RMBS securities originally rated investment grade that are floating rate or that have low fixed coupons relative to current market
yields. A total of 24 securities with an amortized cost of $70 million and a net unrealized loss of $40 million are still investment grade. As part of its credit evaluation procedures
applied to these and other securities, AIG considers the nature of both the specific securities and the market conditions for those securities. For most security types supported by real estate-related
assets, current market yields continue to be higher than the yields were at the respective issuance dates of the securities. This is largely due to investors demanding additional yield premium for
securities whose performance is closely linked to the commercial and residential real estate sectors. In addition, for floating rate securities, persistently low LIBOR levels continue to make these
securities less attractive.   

  AIG 2011 Form 10-K            157  

Table of Contents    

      AIG believes that the lack of demand for commercial and residential real estate collateral-based securities, low contractual coupons and interest rate spreads,
and the deterioration in the level of collateral support due to real estate market conditions are the primary reasons for these securities trading at significant price discounts. Based on its
analysis, and taking into account the level of subordination below these securities, AIG continues to believe that the expected cash flows from these securities will be sufficient to recover the
amortized cost of its investment. AIG continues to monitor these positions for potential credit impairments that could result from further deterioration in commercial and residential real estate
fundamentals.   

      See
Note 7 to the Consolidated Financial Statements for further discussion of AIG's investment portfolio.   

ENTERPRISE RISK MANAGEMENT    

OVERVIEW   

      Risk management is a key element of AIG's approach to corporate governance. AIG has an integrated process for managing risks throughout the
organization. AIG's Board of Directors has oversight responsibility for the management of risk. AIG's Enterprise Risk Management (ERM) Department supervises and integrates the risk management
functions in each of AIG's major business units, providing senior management with a consolidated view on the firm's major risk positions. Within each business unit, senior leaders and executives
approve risk-taking policies and targeted risk tolerance within the framework provided by ERM.   

RISK GOVERNANCE STRUCTURE   

AIG's risk governance fosters the development and maintenance of a risk and control culture that encompasses all significant risk categories. It
is supported by committees at the AIG corporate-level and in each business unit.   

      AIG's
Board of Directors oversees management of risk through the complementary functioning of its Finance and Risk Management Committee (the FRMC) and the Audit Committee, and
interaction with other committees of the Board. AIG's Chief Risk Officer (CRO) reports to both the FRMC and AIG's Chief Executive Officer (CEO).   

      The
Group Risk Committee (the GRC) is the senior management group charged with assessing all significant risk issues on a global basis in order to protect AIG's financial strength,
optimize its intrinsic value, and protect its reputation among key stakeholders. The GRC is chaired by AIG's CRO and its membership includes AIG's CEO, Chief Financial Officer (CFO), General Counsel,
and 11 additional executives from across AIG's corporate
functions and business units. AIG's CRO reports periodically on behalf of the GRC to both the FRMC and the Audit Committee of the Board.   

      Management
committees that support the GRC are as follows:   

the Financial Risk Group (the FRG);     
           the Transaction Approval and Business Practices Committee (the TABPC);     
           the Operational Risk Committee (the ORC); and     
           the Risk and Capital Committees of AIG's major insurance business segments, SunAmerica, Chartis and UGC.    

The
committees are comprised of senior executives and experienced business representatives from a range of control functions and business units throughout AIG and its subsidiaries. These
committees are charged with identifying, analyzing and resolving specific risk matters within their respective mandate.   

The
FRG is responsible for the oversight of financial risks taken by AIG and its subsidiaries. The FRG's mandate includes oversight of the firm's aggregate risks related to credit,
asset-liability management and liquidity, derivatives activity, and foreign exchange transactions. Membership of the FRG includes AIG's Executive Vice President   Investments and
Financial Services and Executive Vice President and Treasurer, as well as its CFO, and other senior executives from Finance and ERM. AIG's CRO serves as Chair of the FRG.   

  158            AIG 2011 Form 10-K  

Table of Contents   

      The
TABPC provides the primary corporate-level review function for all proposed transactions and business practices that are significant in size, complex in scope, or that present
heightened legal, reputational, accounting
or regulatory risks. AIG's Executive Vice President and Treasurer serves as Chair of the committee that also includes AIG's General Counsel, the AIG CRO, CFO, Executive Vice
President   Investments and Financial Services, and a senior executive from Finance.   

The
ORC is tasked with identifying the risks that may arise from adverse outcomes that stem from internal processes, people, systems, or external events. AIG's Chief Administrative
Officer is Chair of the ORC and he is joined by senior AIG executives with expertise in legal, compliance, technology and operational risk, as well as the chief risk officers of key AIG business
units.   

Each
of AIG's major insurance businesses has established committees that are responsible for managing risks at the individual business-unit level:   

Chartis Risk   Capital Committee (CRCC): The CRCC is co-chaired by the Chartis CRO and Chief Financial
Officer and consists of Chartis executive management, the AIG CRO and the AIG Chief Actuary. The CRCC mandate encompasses the identification, monitoring and control of all sources of risk within the
global Chartis portfolio, including emerging and catastrophic risks. Specific responsibilities include setting risk tolerance, approving capital management strategies (including asset allocation and
risk financing), insurance portfolio optimization and providing oversight of economic capital models. Each major geographic region of the Chartis footprint maintains a local committee with a similar
mandate that reports directly or indirectly to the CRCC.     
           SunAmerica Financial Group Risk   Capital Committee (SARCC): The SARCC is co-chaired by the SunAmerica
CRO and the SunAmerica CEO and consists of SunAmerica executive management, the AIG CRO and the AIG Chief Actuary. The scope of SARCC responsibilities encompasses the identification, monitoring and
control of all sources of risk within SAFG and includes financial, capital, liquidity and insurance risks. The SARCC creates and implements all risk management policies and oversees all risk
assessment processes. It reviews strategic and financial initiatives and activities as recommended by its various business units and functional groups.     
           UGC Risk Committee (URC): The URC is chaired by the UGC CRO who reports regularly to the AIG CRO and the UGC executive
committee. The URC creates, oversees and implements UGC's risk management framework and establishes the policies and guiding principles for managing risk across the UGC portfolio.    

RISK IDENTIFICATION, MEASUREMENT AND TOLERANCE   

      AIG's risk tolerance is reflected in its business planning and integrated into the management of its operations. AIG's GRC routinely reviews the
level of risk taken by the consolidated organization in relation to established risk tolerances. A consolidated risk report is presented to the FRMC by the AIG CRO.   

      AIG
uses a proprietary stress testing framework to measure its quantifiable risks. The framework measures risk over multiple time horizons and under different levels of stress. This
framework measures the risk in each of   

  AIG 2011 Form 10-K            159  

Table of Contents   

AIG's
regulated subsidiaries in relation to its statutory capital needs under stress, as well as the risks inherent in AIG's unregulated subsidiaries.   

      To
complement existing processes, in 2011 AIG implemented an enterprise-wide vulnerability identification process (VID) to facilitate the escalation of potential new or
emerging risks to senior management. AIG's VID process, on a quarterly basis, solicits this information from a broad range of senior managers across the organization. Through VID, vulnerabilities not
captured by other risk management practices are identified and elevated to senior management on a regular basis.   

      AIG's
approach to evaluating and managing risk divides material risk topics as follows:   

Credit risk      the potential loss arising from an
obligor's inability or unwillingness to meet its obligations to AIG.     
            Market risk      the potential loss arising from adverse
fluctuations in interest rates, foreign currencies, equity and commodity prices, and their levels of volatility. Market risk includes credit spread risk, the potential loss arising from adverse
fluctuations in credit spreads of securities or counterparties.     
            Operational risk      the potential loss resulting from
inadequate or failed internal processes, people, and systems, or from external events.     
            Liquidity risk      the potential inability to meet all
payment obligations when they become due.     
            General insurance risk      the potential loss resulting
from inadequate premiums, insufficient reserves and catastrophic exposures.     
            Life insurance risk      the potential loss resulting from
experience deviating from expectations for mortality, morbidity and termination rates in the insurance-oriented products and insufficient cash flows to cover contract liabilities in the retirement
savings products.     
            Reputational risk      the risk of direct loss or loss in
future business because of damage to AIG's reputation. Damage to the Company's reputation can arise from a large number of issues, including potential conflicts of interest, legal and regulatory
requirements, ethical issues, and sales and trading practices.    

CREDIT RISK MANAGEMENT   

      AIG devotes considerable resources to managing its direct and indirect credit exposures, such as those arising from fixed income investments,
equity securities, deposits, reverse repurchase agreements and repurchase agreements, commercial paper, corporate and consumer loans, leases, reinsurance recoverables, counterparty risk to derivatives
activities, collateral extended to counterparties, cessions of insurance risk to customers, credit risk assumed through credit derivatives written, financial guarantees and letters of credit. Credit
risk is defined as the risk that AIG's customers or counterparties are unable or unwilling to repay their contractual obligations when they become due. Credit risk may also be manifested:
(i) through the downgrading of credit ratings of counterparties whose credit instruments AIG may be holding, or, in some cases, insuring, causing the value of the assets to decline or insured
risks to rise; and (ii) as cross-border risk where a country (sovereign government risk) or one or more non-sovereign obligors within a country are unable or unwilling to repay an
obligation or are unable or unwilling to provide foreign exchange to service a credit or equity exposure incurred by another AIG business unit located outside that country.   

AIG's
credit risks are managed at the corporate level within ERM, assisted by credit functions headed by seasoned credit officers in all the business units, whose primary role is to
assure appropriate credit risk management in the context of the firm's credit risk appetite. AIG's Chief Credit Officer (CCO) and credit executives are primarily responsible for the development and
maintenance of credit risk policies and procedures. Detailed responsibilities are as follows:   

develop and implement AIG-wide appropriate credit policies;     
           approve delegated credit authorities to AIG credit executives;    

160            AIG 2011 Form 10-K  

Table of Contents   

manage the approval process for requests for credit limits, program limits and credit transactions above delegated
authorities or where concentrations of risk may exist or be incurred;     
           aggregate globally all credit exposure data by counterparty, country, sector and industry and report risk concentrations
regularly to and review with senior management;     
           administer regular portfolio credit reviews of investment, derivative and credit-incurring business units and recommend
corrective actions where required;     
           conduct credit research on countries, sectors and asset classes where risk concentrations may exist;    
           develop methodologies for quantification and assessment of credit risks, including the establishment and maintenance of
AIG's internal risk rating process; and     
           approve appropriate credit reserves, credit-related other-than-temporary impairments and
corresponding methodologies in all credit portfolios.    

AIG
monitors and controls its company-wide credit risk concentrations and attempts to avoid unwanted or excessive risk accumulations, whether funded or unfunded. To minimize
the level of credit risk in certain circumstances, AIG may require third-party guarantees, reinsurance or collateral, such as letters of credit and trust accounts. These guarantees, reinsurance
recoverables, letters of credit and trust accounts are also treated as credit exposure and are added to AIG's risk concentration exposure data.   

AIG
defines its aggregate credit exposures to a counterparty as the sum of its fixed maturity securities, equity securities, loans, finance leases, reinsurance recoverables, derivatives
(mark-to-market and potential future exposure), deposits, reverse repurchase agreements, repurchase agreements, collateral extended to counterparties, commercial bank letters
of credit received as collateral, guarantees, and the specified credit equivalent exposures to certain insurance products which embody credit risk. Therefore, AIG's reported credit exposures to a
counterparty reflect available for sale investments, trading securities, derivative exposures, insurance credit and any other counterparty credit exposures.   

      AIG's
single largest credit exposure, the U.S. Government, was 34 percent of Total equity at December 31, 2011 compared to 22 percent at December 31, 2010.
The increase reflects the effects of the Recapitalization on Total equity as well as increased exposure to the U.S. Government, including primarily credit exposure related to the U.S. Treasury bonds
and government agencies and to the direct and guaranteed exposures to U.S. government-sponsored entities, primarily the Federal National Mortgage Association (Fannie Mae) and the Federal Home Loan
Mortgage Corporation (Freddie Mac). Based on AIG's internal risk ratings, at December 31, 2011, AIG's largest below investment grade-rated credit exposure was 0.6 percent of Total
equity, compared to 0.6 percent at December 31, 2010.   

      AIG's
single largest industry credit exposure in 2011 was to the global financial institutions sector, which includes banks and finance companies, securities firms, and insurance and
reinsurance companies, many of which can be highly correlated at times of market stress. As of December 31, 2011, credit exposure to this sector was $108 billion, or 123 percent
of Total equity compared to 119 percent at December 31, 2010.   

      At
December 31, 2011:   

$103 billion or 95 percent of these financial institution credit exposures were considered investment grade
based on AIG's internal ratings.     
           $5 billion or 5 percent were considered non-investment grade. Most of the
non-investment grade exposure was to financial institutions in countries AIG does not consider of investment grade quality. Aggregate credit exposure to the ten largest below investment
grade-rated financial institutions was $2 billion.     
           AIG's aggregate credit exposure to fixed maturity securities of the financial institution sector amounted to
$40 billion.     
           Short-term bank deposit placements, reverse repos, repos and commercial paper issued by financial institutions
(primarily commercial banks), operating account balances with banks and bank-issued    
 
  AIG 2011 Form 10-K            161  

Table of Contents   

commercial
letters of credit supporting insurance credit exposures were $18 billion of the total exposure, or 17 percent, to global financial institutions.    

The remaining credit exposures to this sector were primarily related to reinsurance recoverables, ordinary shares of AIA,
collateral extended to counterparties mostly pursuant to derivative transactions, derivatives, and the fronting of risk management policies to captive insurers of these financial institutions.    

Of
the $108 billion aggregate financial exposure, $35.8 billion was to United Kingdom and European-based financial institutions.    

$12.2 billion of this aggregate credit exposure was to non-bank institutions, of which
$9.5 billion, or 78 percent, was reinsurance recoverable balances. Reinsurance recoverables were primarily to highly rated reinsurers based in Switzerland, Germany, and the United
Kingdom. $1.7 billion of the aggregate credit exposure to non-banks was fixed maturity securities. Approximately 98 percent of the non-bank exposures were
considered investment grade based on AIG's internal ratings.     
           Aggregate credit exposures to United Kingdom- and European-based banks totaled $23.5 billion, of which
$22.7 billion were considered investment grade based on AIG's internal ratings. Aggregate below investment grade-rated credit exposures to European banks were $793 million.    
           AIG's credit exposures to banks domiciled in the Euro-zone countries totaled $9.6 billion, of which
$5.1 billion were fixed maturity securities. Credit exposures to banks based in the five countries of the Euro-zone periphery (Spain, Italy, Ireland, Greece, and Portugal) totaled
$1.7 billion, of which $1.0 billion were fixed maturity securities. Credit exposures to banks based in France totaled $1.9 billion, of which $845 million were fixed
maturity securities. AIG's credit exposures were predominantly to the largest banks in these countries.    

The following table presents AIG's aggregate credit exposures to banks in the United Kingdom and Europe:   

(a)       Fixed maturity securities primarily includes available-for-sale and trading securities reported at fair value of
$10.6 billion ($10.6 billion amortized cost), and $1 billion ($1.1 billion amortized cost) respectively. Covered bonds (debt securities secured by a pool of financial
assets sufficient to cover any bondholder claims and which have full recourse to the issuing bank) represented approximately 10 percent of the $11.6 billion fixed maturity
securities.    

162            AIG 2011 Form 10-K  

Table of Contents   

(b)      Cash and short-term investments include bank deposit placements, operating accounts, securities purchased under
agreements to resell and collateral posted to counterparties against structured products. Credit equivalent exposure to securities purchased under agreements to resell was $86 million (notional
value of $2.7 billion).   
       (c)      Derivative transactions reported at fair value.   
       (d)      Other primarily consists of commercial letters of credit supporting insurance credit exposures ($1.7 billion), captive
programs in the United Kingdom and the Netherlands ($1.6 billion)    

Out of a total of $5.1 billion of fixed maturity securities of banks in the Euro-zone countries, AIG's subordinated debt
holdings and Tier 1 and preference share securities in these banks totaled $1.2 billion and $386 million, respectively, at December 31, 2011. These exposures were
predominantly to the largest banks in those countries.   

   The following table presents further detail on AIG's fixed maturity security exposure to banks in the United Kingdom and Europe:   

(a)       Fixed maturity securities primarily includes available-for-sale and trading securities reported at fair value and single name CDS at
notional contract value.   
       (b)      Secured/government primarily includes covered bonds and securities issued by government-sponsored entities or debt guaranteed by a
government.    

AIG also had credit exposures to several European governments whose ratings have been downgraded or placed under review in recent months by one or
more of the major rating agencies. These downgrades occurred mostly in countries in the Euro-zone periphery (Spain, Italy and Portugal) where AIG's credit exposures totaled
$339 million at December 31, 2011. The downgrades primarily reflect large government budget deficits, rising government debt-to-GDP ratios and large financing
requirements of these sovereigns, which have given rise to widening credit spreads and difficult financing conditions. These credit exposures primarily included
available-for-sale and trading securities (at fair value) issued by these governments. AIG had no direct or guaranteed credit exposure to the governments of Greece or Ireland.   

  AIG 2011 Form 10-K            163  

Table of Contents   

   The following table presents AIG's aggregate (gross and net) credit exposures to governments in the Euro-Zone and other non-U.S. government
concentrations:   

*       For comparative purposes, December 31, 2010 figures have been adjusted to reflect the divestitures of AIG Star, AIG Edison, and Nan Shan, which
occurred in 2011.    

164            AIG 2011 Form 10-K  

Table of Contents   

The following table presents AIG's aggregate credit exposures to non-financial institutions in the United Kingdom and
Europe:   

(a)       Fixed maturity securities primarily includes available-for-sale securities, with $211 million in trading
securities.   
       (b)      United Kingdom/European exposure also consists of $345 million of subordinated debt, primarily in the United Kingdom and
Switzerland; bank loans of $95 million; and preferred equity securities of $91 million.   
       (c)      Other primarily consists of insurance related products, including captive fronting programs ($8.1 billion), trade credit
insurance ($3.8 billion) and surety insurance ($2.3 billion).    

Approximately 87 percent of fixed maturity securities in the United Kingdom and European non-financial institutions were
considered investment grade based on AIG's internal ratings. Among non-financial institution corporate exposures to Euro-zone countries, France represented the largest single country, amounting to
$6.8 billion of the $20 billion total, of which $2.6 billion were fixed maturity securities. Approximately two-thirds of these French exposures were to issuers in the oil and gas,
rail, utilities and telecommunications industries. Euro-zone periphery non-financial institution corporate exposures ($5 billion) are heavily weighted towards large multinational
corporate or issuers in relatively stable industries, such as regulated utilities (26 percent), telecommunications (18 percent) and oil   gas (7 percent).   

      AIG
also had United Kingdom and European structured product exposures (largely residential mortgage-backed, commercial mortgage-backed and asset-backed securities) totaling
$8.6 billion at December 31, 2011. United
Kingdom structured products accounted for $4.2 billion or 48 percent of these exposures, while the Netherlands and Germany comprised 23 percent and 7 percent, respectively.
Structured product exposures to the European peripheral countries accounted for 2 percent of the total. Approximately 90 percent of the United Kingdom and European structured products
exposures were rated A or better at December 31, 2011. See Critical Accounting Estimates   Fair Value Measurements of Certain Financial Assets and
Liabilities   Level 3 Assets and Liabilities   Regulatory Capital Portfolio for a discussion of European related regulatory capital transactions.   

      In
addition, AIG had commercial real estate-related net equity investments in Europe totaling $647 million and related unfunded commitments of $165 million. Moreover,
ILFC's fleet includes aircraft on operating leases to U.K. and European airlines with a net book value of approximately $13.5 billion, of which approximately $3.1 billion or 23 percent
are aircraft on lease to carriers based in the five Euro-zone periphery countries.   

      AIG
actively monitors its European credit exposures, especially those exposures to issuers in the European periphery, and uses various stress assumptions to identify issuers and
securities warranting review by senior management and to determine whether mitigating actions should be taken. Mitigating actions in these areas to date have largely included non-renewal
of maturing exposures and sales and tender of securities. To date, credit default protection has not been actively used. The financial condition of issuers is periodically evaluated, and internal risk
ratings are adjusted as circumstances warrant. The result of these continuing reviews has led AIG to believe that its combined credit risk exposures to sovereign governments, financial institutions
and non-financial corporations in the Euro-zone are manageable risks given the type and size of exposure and the credit quality and size of the issuers.   

  AIG 2011 Form 10-K            165  

Table of Contents    

      AIG also monitors its aggregate cross-border exposures by country and regional group of countries. AIG includes in its cross-border exposures both aggregated
cross-border credit exposures to unrelated third parties and its cross-border investments in its own international subsidiaries. Eight countries had cross-border exposures in excess of
10 percent of Total equity at both December 31, 2011 and December 31, 2010. Based on AIG's internal risk ratings, at December 31, 2011, five countries were rated AAA and
three were rated AA. The two largest cross-border exposures were to the United Kingdom and France.   

      AIG
also has a risk concentration, primarily through the investment portfolios of its insurance companies, in the U.S. municipal sector. A majority of these securities were held in
available for sale portfolios of AIG's domestic property casualty insurance companies. See Investments   Available for Sale Investments herein for further details. AIG had
$892 million of additional exposure to the municipal sector outside of its insurance company portfolios at December 31, 2011, compared to $974 million at December 31, 2010.
These exposures consisted of AIGFP derivatives and trading securities (at fair value) and exposure related to other insurance and financial services operations.   

      See
also Investments herein for further information.   

      AIG
reviews regularly concentration reports in all categories listed above as well as credit trends by risk ratings and credit spreads. AIG periodically adjusts limits and reviews
exposures for risk mitigation to provide reasonable assurance that the Company does not incur excessive levels of credit risk and that AIG's credit risk profile is properly calibrated across business
units.   

MARKET RISK MANAGEMENT   

      AIG is exposed to market risks, primarily within its insurance and capital markets businesses (see Item 1. Business  
Other Operations   Global Capital Markets regarding its market risk issues). For AIG's insurance operations, the asset-liability exposures are predominantly structural in nature,
and not the result of speculative positioning to take advantage of short-term market opportunities. For example, the business model of life insurance and retirement savings is to collect
premiums or deposits from policyholders and invest the proceeds in predominantly long-term, credit based assets. A spread is earned over time between the asset yield and the cost payable
to policyholders. The asset and liability profiles are managed so that the cash flows resulting from invested assets are sufficient to meet policyholder obligations when they become due without the
need to sell assets prematurely into a potentially distressed market. In periods of severe market volatility, depressed and illiquid market values on otherwise performing investments diminish
shareholders' equity even without the realization of actual credit event related losses. Such diminution of capital strength has caused downward pressure on the market's assessment of the financial
strength and the credit ratings of insurers.   

      AIG's
market exposures can be categorized as follows:   

Benchmark interest rates.       Benchmark interest rates are also
known as risk-free interest rates and are associated with either the government/treasury yield curve or the swap curve. The fair value of AIG's significant fixed maturity securities
portfolio changes as benchmark interest rates change.     
            Credit spread or risk premium.       Credit spread risk is the
potential for loss due to a change in an instrument's risk premium or yield relative to that of a comparable-duration, default-free instrument.     
            Equity and alternative investment prices.       AIG's exposure to
equity and alternative investment prices arises from direct investments in common stocks and mutual funds, from minimum benefit guarantees embedded in the structure of certain variable annuity and
variable life insurance products and from other equity-like investments, such as hedge funds and private equity funds, private equity investments, commercial real estate and real estate
funds.     
            Foreign currency exchange rates.       AIG is a globally
diversified enterprise with significant income, assets and liabilities denominated in, and significant capital deployed in, a variety of currencies.    

166            AIG 2011 Form 10-K  

Table of Contents   

      AIG
uses a number of measures and approaches to measure and quantify its market risk exposure, including:   

Duration/key rate duration.       Duration is the measure of the
sensitivities of a fixed-income instrument to the parallel shift in the benchmark yield curve. Key rate duration measures sensitivities to the movement at a given term point on the yield curve.    
            Scenario analysis.       Scenario analysis uses historical,
hypothetical, or forward-looking macroeconomic scenarios to assess and report exposures. Examples of hypothetical scenarios include a 100 basis point parallel shift in the yield curve or a
10 percent immediate and simultaneous decrease in world-wide equity markets.     
            Stress testing.       Stress testing is a special form of scenario
analysis whereby the scenarios used are designed to lead to a material adverse outcome (for example, the stock market crash of October 1987 or the widening of yields or spread of RMBS or CMBS during
2008). Stress testing is often used to address Value-at-Risk (VaR) shortcomings and complement VaR calculations. Particularly in times of significant volatility in financial
markets, using stress scenarios provides more pertinent and forward-looking information on market risk exposure than VaR results based upon historical data alone.     
            VaR.       VaR is a summary statistical measure that uses the
estimated volatility and correlation of market factors to calculate the maximum loss that could occur over a defined period of time with a specified level of statistical confidence. VaR measures not
only the size of individual exposures but also the interaction between different market exposures, thereby providing a portfolio approach to measuring market risk. A key shortcoming of the VaR
approach is its reliance on historical data, making VaR calculations essentially "backward looking." This shortcoming was most evident during the recent credit crisis.    

Insurance and Aircraft Leasing Sensitivities            

   The following table provides estimates of AIG's sensitivity to changes in yield curves, equity prices and foreign currency exchange rates:   

*       All figures and periods have been adjusted to reflect the divestitures of AIG Star, AIG Edison, and Nan Shan, which occurred in 2011.    

Exposures to yield curves include assets that are directly sensitive to yield curve movements, such as fixed maturity securities, loans, finance
receivables and short-term investments (excluding consolidated separate account assets). Exposures to equity and alternative investment prices include investments in common stocks,
preferred stocks, mutual funds, hedge funds, private equity funds, commercial real estate and real estate funds (excluding consolidated separate account assets and consolidated managed partnerships
and funds). Exposures to foreign currency exchange rates reflect AIG's consolidated non-U.S. dollar net capital investments on a GAAP basis. Comparisons of 2011 exposures to 2010 are as
follows:   

Total yield sensitive assets increased 5.6 percent or $17.3 billion compared to 2010, primarily due to an
increase in fixed income assets of $34.9 billion. This increase was partially offset by a decrease in cash and other assets of $17.6 billion.     
           Total equity and alternative investments exposure decreased 15.9 percent or $7.4 billion compared to 2010,
primarily due to: AIG's sale of MetLife equity securities ($6.5 billion) as well as decreases in mutual fund values ($1.5 billion), real estate investments ($416 million) and
private equity funds and hedge funds values    
 
  AIG 2011 Form 10-K            167  

Table of Contents   

($247 million).
The decrease was partially offset by increases in other equity investments ($1.0 billion) and common equity securities ($247 million).    

Foreign currency exchange rates net exposure increased 73.5 percent or $2.5 billion compared to 2010,
primarily due to: unrealized appreciation of $1.3 billion from certain foreign-denominated equity holdings; goodwill translation adjustment of $812 million; and a reduction in
foreign-denominated debt outstanding of $463 million. The increase was partially offset by a net decrease in all other currencies of $65 million.    

The
above sensitivities of a 100 basis point increase in yield curves, a 20 percent decline in equities and alternative assets, and a 10 percent depreciation of all foreign
currency exchange rates against the U.S. dollar were chosen solely for illustrative purposes. The selection of these specific events should not be construed as a prediction, but only as a
demonstration of the potential effects of such events. These scenarios should not be construed as the only risks AIG faces; these events are shown as an indication of several possible losses AIG could
experience. In addition, losses from these and other risks could be materially higher than illustrated.   

      The
sensitivity factors utilized for 2011 and presented above were selected based on historical data from 1991 to 2011, as follows (see the table below):   

a 100 basis point parallel shift in the yield curve is broadly consistent with a one standard deviation movement of the
benchmark ten-year treasury yield;     
           a 20 percent drop for equity and alternative investments is broadly consistent with a one standard deviation
movement in the S P 500; and     
           a 10 percent depreciation of foreign currency exchange rates is consistent with a one standard deviation movement
in the U.S. dollar (USD)/Japanese Yen (JPY) exchange rate.    

OPERATIONAL RISK MANAGEMENT   

      AIG's Operational Risk Management department (ORM) oversees AIG's operational risk management practices. ORM is responsible for establishing and
maintaining the framework, principles and guidelines of AIG's operational risk management program.   

Each
business unit is responsible for its operational risks and implementing the components of the operational risk management program to effectively identify, assess, monitor and
mitigate such risks. This responsibility includes developing and implementing policies, procedures, management oversight processes, and other governance-related activities consistent with AIG's
overall operational risk management process.   

      Senior
operational risk executives in the businesses report to the Head of AIG ORM and to business management. This reporting structure facilitates development of business-specific
knowledge of operational risk matters, while at the same time maintaining company-wide consistency in AIG's overall approach to operational risk management.   

A
strong operational risk management program facilitates escalation and resolution of operational risk issues. In order to accomplish this, AIG's operational risk management program is
designed to:   

pro-actively address potential operational risk issues;     
           create transparency at all levels of the organization; and     
           assign clear ownership and accountability for addressing identified issues.    

168            AIG 2011 Form 10-K  

Table of Contents   

      As
part of the operational risk management framework, AIG has implemented a risk and control self assessment (RCSA) process. The RCSA process is used to identify key operational risks
and evaluate the effectiveness of existing controls to mitigate those risks. Corrective action plans are developed to address any identified issues. Business units continue to enhance their RCSA
processes to perform more robust risk assessments.   

      The
Operational Risk Management Forum, a company-wide governance body comprised of senior ORM executives, including the senior business operational risk executives, meets
regularly and provides a forum for approving operational risk policies and ensuring effectiveness of the operational risk management program.   

BUSINESS UNIT RISK MANAGEMENT   

      Other than as described above, AIG manages its business risk oversight activities through its operating segments.   

Insurance Operations            

      AIG's multiple insurance businesses conducted on a global basis expose AIG to a wide variety of risks with different time horizons. These risks
are managed throughout the organization, both centrally and locally, through a number of procedures, including:   

pre-launch approval of product design, development and distribution;     
           underwriting approval processes and authorities;     
           exposure limits with ongoing monitoring;     
           modeling and reporting of aggregations and limit concentrations at multiple levels (policy, line of business, product
group, country, individual/group, correlation and catastrophic risk events);     
           compliance with financial reporting and capital and solvency targets;     
           extensive use of reinsurance, both internal and third-party; and     
           review and establishment of reserves.    

AIG
closely manages insurance risk by overseeing and controlling the nature and geographic location of the risks in each line of business underwritten, the terms and conditions of the
underwriting and the premiums charged for taking on the risk. Concentrations of risk, including, but not limited to, wind, flood, earthquake, terrorism and accident are analyzed using various modeling
techniques.   

      AIG
has two major categories of insurance risks as follows:   

Property and casualty (Chartis and Mortgage Guaranty)     
risks covered include property, casualty, fidelity/surety, management liability and mortgage insurance. Risks in the general insurance segment are managed through aggregations and limitations of
concentrations at multiple levels: policy, line of business, correlation and catastrophic risk events. Risks in the mortgage insurance business are managed through geographic location of the insured
properties, the relative economic conditions in the local housing markets, credit attributes of the borrowers, and the loan amount relative to the value of the respective collateral.    
            Domestic Life Insurance   Retirement Service
(SunAmerica)      risks include mortality and morbidity in the insurance-oriented products and insufficient cash flows to cover contract liabilities in the
retirement savings-oriented products. Risks are managed through product design, sound medical underwriting, external traditional reinsurance programs and external catastrophe reinsurance programs.    

AIG
is a major purchaser of reinsurance for its insurance operations. The use of reinsurance facilitates insurance risk management (retention, volatility, concentrations) and capital
planning locally (branch and subsidiary). AIG may purchase reinsurance on a pooled basis. Pooling of AIG's reinsurance risks enables AIG to purchase reinsurance more efficiently at a consolidated
level, manage global counterparty risk and relationships and manage global catastrophe risks, both for Chartis and SunAmerica.   

  AIG 2011 Form 10-K            169  

Table of Contents   

Chartis           

      At Chartis, underwriting risks are managed through its risk review and selection processes, exposure limitations, exclusions, deductibles,
self-insured retentions, coverage limits and reinsurance. The risks covered by AIG are managed through sound underwriting practices, pricing procedures and the use of actuarial analysis as
part of the determination of overall adequacy of provisions for insurance. Underwriting practices and pricing procedures are based on historical experience, current regulation and judicial decisions
as well as proposed or anticipated regulatory changes.   

      Climate
change and related regulatory initiatives may increase both the frequency and severity of claims or the cost of defending such claims. Chartis policies are primarily written for
periods of 12 months, providing Chartis with the ability to modify underwriting practices and pricing procedures; limiting the financial impact of such increase in claims. Each line of business
and many individual policyholders may have different exposures to the effects of climate change.   

      A
primary goal of AIG in managing its Chartis operations is to achieve an underwriting profit. To achieve this goal, AIG must be disciplined in its risk selection, premiums must be
adequate, and terms and conditions must be appropriate to cover the risk accepted.   

Catastrophe Exposures            

      The nature of AIG's business exposes it to various catastrophic events in which multiple losses across multiple lines of business can
occur in any calendar year. In order to control this exposure, AIG uses a combination of techniques, including setting aggregate limits in key business units, monitoring and modeling accumulated
exposures, and purchasing catastrophe reinsurance to supplement its other reinsurance protections. The majority of policies exposed to catastrophic events are one-year contracts allowing
AIG to quickly adjust its exposure to catastrophic events if climate changes or other events increase the frequency or severity of catastrophes.   

      Natural
disasters, such as hurricanes, earthquakes and other catastrophes, have the potential to adversely affect AIG's operating results. Other risks, such as a pandemic disease, like
the Swine Flu Influenza A Virus (H1N1), could adversely affect AIG's business and operating results to the extent they are only partially offset by reinsurance programs.   

      AIG
evaluates catastrophic events and assesses the probability of occurrence and magnitude of catastrophic events through the use of industry recognized models, among other techniques.
AIG updates these models by periodically monitoring the exposure risks of AIG's worldwide Chartis operations and adjusting such models accordingly.   

      Following
is an overview of modeled losses for Chartis exposure associated with the more significant natural perils. The modeled results assume that all reinsurers fulfill their
obligations to AIG in accordance with their terms.   

      Chartis
utilizes industry recognized catastrophe models. The use of different methodologies and assumptions could materially change the projected losses. Therefore, these modeled losses
may not be comparable to estimates made by other companies. These estimates are inherently uncertain and may not reflect AIG's maximum exposures to these events. It is highly likely that AIG's losses
will vary, perhaps significantly, from these estimates.   

      The
modeled results provided in the table below were based on the aggregate exceedence probability (AEP) losses, which represent total property, workers' compensation, and A H losses
that may occur in any single year from one or more natural events. The A H data include exposures for United States and Japan earthquakes. These exposures represent the largest share of A H exposures
to earthquakes. A H losses were modeled using April 2010 data. The property exposures were modeled with data as of September 2011. All reinsurance program structures, domestic and international,
reflect the reinsurance programs in place as of January 1, 2012. The values   

  170            AIG 2011 Form 10-K  

Table of Contents   

provided
were based on 100-year return period losses, which have a one percent likelihood of being exceeded in any single year. Losses include loss adjustment expenses and the net values
include reinstatement premiums.   

*       Includes hurricanes, typhoons and European windstorms.    

Gross earthquake and tropical cyclone modeled losses increased $511 million and $1.6 billion, respectively, compared to 2010, while
net losses increased $406 million and $809 million, respectively, compared to 2010. These increases in both gross and net losses are primarily due to Risk Management Solutions (RMS)
model changes, blending multiple model results (RMS, AIR Worldwide Corporation (AIR) and EQECAT, Inc.), data completeness and the implementation of a data quality index.   

      In
addition to the return period loss, AIG evaluates potential single event earthquake and hurricane losses that may be incurred. The single events utilized are a subset of potential
events identified and utilized by Lloyd's    (see Lloyd's Realistic Disaster Scenarios, Scenario Specifications, January 2012)    and referred to as Realistic
Disaster Scenarios (RDS). The purpose of this analysis is to utilize these RDS to provide a reference frame and place into context the model results. However, it is important to note that the specific
events used for this analysis do not necessarily represent the worst case loss that AIG could incur from this type of an event in these regions. The losses associated with the RDS are included in the
following table.   

   Single-event modeled property and workers' compensation losses to AIG's worldwide portfolio of risk for key geographic areas are set forth below. Gross values represent AIG's
liability after the application of policy limits and deductibles and net values represent losses after reinsurance is applied. The net losses also include reinsurance reinstatement premiums. Both
gross and net losses include loss adjustment expenses.   

AIG also monitors key international property risks utilizing industry recognized natural catastrophe models. Based on the occurrence exceedance
probabilities, the 100-year return period loss for Japanese Earthquake is $976 million gross and $514 million net; the 100-year return period loss for European
Windstorm is $967 million gross and $612 million net; and the 100-year return period loss for Japanese Typhoon is $1.4 billion gross and $680 million net.   

ACTUAL
RESULTS IN ANY PERIOD ARE LIKELY TO VARY, PERHAPS MATERIALLY, FROM THE MODELED SCENARIOS, AND THE OCCURRENCE OF ONE OR MORE SEVERE EVENTS COULD HAVE A MATERIAL ADVERSE EFFECT ON
AIG'S FINANCIAL CONDITION, RESULTS OF OPERATIONS AND LIQUIDITY.   

  AIG 2011 Form 10-K            171  

Table of Contents   

     Terrorism      

      Exposure to loss from terrorist attack is controlled by limiting the aggregate accumulation of workers' compensation and property
insurance that is underwritten within defined target locations. Modeling is used to provide projections of PML by target location based upon the actual exposures of AIG policyholders.   

      Terrorism
risk is monitored to manage AIG's exposure. AIG shares its exposures to terrorism risks under the Terrorism Risk Insurance Program Reauthorization Act of 2007 (TRIPRA). During
2011, AIG's deductible under TRIPRA was approximately $2.9 billion, with a 15 percent share of certified terrorism losses in excess of the deductible. As of January 1, 2012, the
deductible was approximately $3 billion, with a 15 percent share of certified terrorism losses in excess of the deductible.   

Reinsurance            

      AIG uses reinsurance programs for its insurance risks as follows:   

facultative agreements to cover large individual exposures;     
           quota share treaties to cover specific books of business;     
           excess-of-loss treaties to cover large losses;     
           excess or surplus automatic treaties to cover individual life risks in excess of stated per-life retention
limits; and     
           catastrophe treaties to cover specific catastrophes, including earthquake, windstorm and flood.    

AIG
monitors its exposures to natural catastrophes and takes corrective actions to limit its exposure with respect to particular geographic areas, companies, or perils.   

      The
Reinsurance Credit Department (RCD) conducts periodic detailed assessments of the financial strength and condition of current and potential reinsurers, both foreign and domestic. The
RCD monitors both the nature of the risks ceded to the reinsurers and the aggregation of total reinsurance recoverables ceded to reinsurers. Such assessments may include, but are not limited to:
identifying whether a reinsurer is appropriately licensed; has sufficient financial capacity and liquidity; and an evaluation of the local economic and financial environment in which a foreign
reinsurer operates.   

      The
RCD reviews the nature of the risks and the need for credit risk mitigants or covenants. For example, in AIG's treaty reinsurance contracts, AIG frequently includes provisions that
require a reinsurer to post collateral when a referenced event occurs. Furthermore, AIG limits its unsecured exposure to reinsurers through the use of credit triggers which include, but are not
limited to, insurer financial strength rating downgrades, declines in statutory surplus below pre-determined levels, decreases in NAIC risk-based capital (RBC) below certain
levels, or setting maximum limits for reinsurance recoverable exposure, which in some cases is the recoverable amount plus the largest single peril limit for a reinsurer. In addition, AIG's credit
executives within corporate ERM review all reinsurer exposures and credit limits and approves most large reinsurer credit limits above pre-set limits that represent actual or potential
credit concentrations. AIG believes that no exposure to a single reinsurer represents an inappropriate concentration of risk to AIG, nor is AIG's business substantially dependent upon any single
reinsurance contract.   

      AIG
enters into intercompany reinsurance transactions for its Chartis and SunAmerica operations. AIG enters into these transactions as a sound and prudent business practice in order to
maintain underwriting control and
spread insurance risk among AIG's various insurance company subsidiaries and to take advantage of economies of scale with external reinsurers. When required for statutory recognition, AIG obtains
letters of credit from third-party financial institutions to collateralize these intercompany transactions. A portion of the approximately $1.5 billion of letters of credit issued in favor of
Chartis companies as at December 31, 2011, secures such intercompany transactions.   

      Although
reinsurance arrangements do not relieve AIG subsidiaries from their direct obligations to insureds, an efficient and effective reinsurance program substantially mitigates AIG's
exposure to potentially significant losses.   

  172            AIG 2011 Form 10-K  

Table of Contents   

AIG
continually evaluates the reinsurance markets and the relative attractiveness of various arrangements for coverage, including structures such as catastrophe bonds, insurance risk securitizations,
"sidecars" and similar vehicles.   

Reinsurance Recoverable           

Chartis' reinsurance recoverable assets are comprised of:   

balances due from reinsurers for indemnity losses and loss expenses billed to, but not yet collected from, reinsurers
(collectively, Paid Losses Recoverable);     
           ultimate ceded reserves for indemnity losses and expenses, including reserves for claims reported but not yet paid and
estimates for IBNR (collectively, Ceded Loss Reserves); and     
           ceded reserves for Unearned Premiums.    

At
December 31, 2011, total reinsurance recoverable assets of $27.2 billion include general reinsurance Paid Losses Recoverable of $1.5 billion, Ceded Loss Reserves
of $20.3 billion, and ceded reserves for Unearned Premiums of $3.9 billion, as well as life reinsurance recoverables of $1.5 billion. The methods used to estimate IBNR and to
establish the resulting ultimate losses involve projecting the frequency and severity of losses over multiple years and are continually reviewed and updated by management. Any adjustments are
reflected in income. It is AIG's belief that the ceded reserves for losses and loss expenses at December 31, 2011 reflect a reasonable estimate of the ultimate losses recoverable. Actual losses
may, however, differ from the reserves currently ceded.   

      AIG
manages the credit risk in its reinsurance relationships by transacting with reinsurers that it considers financially sound, providing for appropriate credit limits and
diversification and, when necessary, AIG requires reinsurers to post collateral in the form of funds withheld, securities in reinsurance trust accounts and/or irrevocable letters of credit. This
collateral can be drawn on for amounts that remain unpaid on an individual reinsurer basis. At December 31, 2011, approximately 57 percent of the reinsurance assets were from
unauthorized reinsurers. The terms authorized and unauthorized pertain to regulatory categories, not creditworthiness. More than 51 percent of these balances were collateralized, permitting
statutory recognition. The remaining 43 percent of the reinsurance assets were from authorized reinsurers. At December 31, 2011, approximately 88 percent of the balances with
respect to authorized reinsurers are from reinsurers rated A (excellent) or better, as rated by A.M. Best, or A (strong) or better, as rated by S P. These ratings are measures of financial
strength.   

   The following table presents information for each reinsurer representing in excess of five percent of AIG's total General Reinsurance Recoverable
assets:   

(a)       The financial strength ratings reflect the ratings of the various reinsurance subsidiaries of the companies listed as of February 13,
2012.   
       (b)      Excludes collateral held in excess of applicable treaty balances.   
       (c)      Total Reinsurance Assets include general and life reinsurance recoverable.    

The estimation of general reinsurance recoverable involves a significant amount of judgment, particularly for asbestos exposures, due to their
long-tail nature. Chartis assesses the collectability of its general reinsurance recoverable balances through detailed reviews of the underlying nature of the reinsurance balance,
including paid   

  AIG 2011 Form 10-K            173  

Table of Contents   

and
unpaid recoverables, whether the balance is in dispute or a legal collection status, whether the reinsurer is financially troubled (i.e., liquidated, insolvent, in receivership or otherwise
subject to formal or informal regulatory restriction), whether collateral and collateral arrangements exist, and the credit quality of the underlying reinsurer. Detailed reviews of the underlying
receivables are particularly important when assessing recoverables attributable to long-tail exposures. Under the terms and conditions of the reinsurance agreement between Chartis and
NICO, NICO assumed the collection risk on Chartis' third party reinsurance recoverables related to the covered asbestos risks. Adjustments to reflect the results of the detailed review are recorded
through an allowance for uncollectable general reinsurance. At December 31, 2011, the allowance for estimated unrecoverable general reinsurance was $365 million. At December 31,
2011, AIG had no significant general reinsurance recoverables due from any individual reinsurer that was financially troubled. In the current environment of weaker economic conditions and strained
financial markets, certain reinsurers are reporting losses and could be subject to rating downgrades. AIG's general reinsurance recoverable exposures are primarily to the regulated subsidiaries of
such companies which are subject to minimum regulatory capital requirements. The RCD, in conjunction with AIG credit executives within corporate ERM, is reviewing these developments, is monitoring
compliance with credit triggers that may require the reinsurer to post collateral, and, as appropriate, will seek to use other means to mitigate any material risks arising from these developments.   

SunAmerica           

      For SunAmerica, the primary risks are the following:   

Pricing risk, which represents the potential exposure to loss resulting from actual policy experience emerging adversely
in comparison to the assumptions made in product pricing associated with investment results, mortality, morbidity, surrenders and expenses;     
           Investment risk, which represents the exposure to loss resulting from the cash flows from the invested assets being less
than cash flows required to meet the obligations of the expected policy and contract liabilities and the necessary return on investments;     
           Interest rate risk, which represents the exposure to loss due to the sensitivity of the liabilities and assets to changes
in interest rates; and     
           Equity market risk, which represents the potential exposure to higher claim costs for guaranteed benefits associated with
variable annuities and the potential reduction in expected fee revenue.    

SunAmerica's
businesses manage these risks through product design, exposure limitations and the active management of the asset-liability relationship in their operations. The emergence
of significant adverse experience would require an adjustment to DAC and benefit reserves that could have a material adverse effect on AIG's consolidated results of operations for a particular period.
For a further discussion of this risk, see Item 1A. Risk Factors   Adjustments to Deferred Policy Acquisition Costs and Future Policy Benefits.   

      SunAmerica
companies generally limit their maximum underwriting exposure on life insurance of a single life to $15 million or less of coverage, in certain circumstances by using
yearly renewable term reinsurance. For SunAmerica companies, the reinsurance programs provide risk mitigation per life for individuals and group and for catastrophic risk events.   

Aircraft Leasing           

      AIG's Aircraft Leasing operations represent the operations of ILFC, which generates its revenues primarily from leasing new and used commercial
jet aircraft to foreign and domestic airlines. Aircraft Leasing operations also include gains and losses that result from the re-marketing of commercial jet aircraft for ILFC's own account
and re-marketing and fleet management services for airlines and financial institutions.
Risks inherent in this business, which are managed at the business unit level, include the following:   

the risk that there will be no market for the aircraft acquired;     
           the risk that aircraft cannot be placed with lessees;    

174            AIG 2011 Form 10-K  

Table of Contents   

the risk of non-performance by lessees;     
           the risk that aircraft and related assets cannot be disposed of at the time and in a manner desired; and    
           the risk of losses on sales or impairment charges and fair value adjustments on older aircraft.    

The
airline industry is sensitive to changes in economic conditions and is cyclical and highly competitive. Airlines and related companies may be affected by political or economic
instability, terrorist activities, changes in national policy, competitive pressures, fuel prices and shortages, labor stoppages, pilot shortages, insurance costs, recessions, health concerns and
other political or economic events adversely affecting world or regional trading markets.   

      ILFC's
revenues and pre-tax income may be adversely affected by the volatile competitive environment in which its customers operate. ILFC is exposed to pre-tax
loss and liquidity strain through non-performance of aircraft lessees, through owning aircraft which it may be unable to sell or re-lease at acceptable rates at lease
expiration, and, in part, through committing to purchase aircraft which it may be unable to lease.   

      As
part of its ongoing fleet strategy, ILFC may pursue the sale or part-out of aircraft while balancing the need for funds with the long-term value of holding aircraft and
other financing alternatives. Significant uncertainties could exist as to the aircraft comprising any actual sale portfolio, the terms of any sale portfolio (including price), and whether any
portfolio sale will be approved. See Capital Resources and Liquidity   Liquidity of Parent and Subsidiaries   Aircraft Leasing herein for further discussion.   

To
date ILFC manages the risk of nonperformance by its lessees with security deposit requirements, repossession rights, overhaul requirements and close monitoring of industry conditions
through its marketing force. More than 94 percent of ILFC's lease revenue came from non-U.S. carriers, and its fleet continues to be in high demand from such carriers.   

      ILFC's
management formally reviews regularly, and no less frequently than quarterly, issues affecting ILFC's fleet, including events and circumstances that may cause impairment of
aircraft values. Management evaluates aircraft in the fleet as necessary based on these events and circumstances. As new and more fuel-efficient aircraft enter the marketplace and
negatively affect the demand for older aircraft, lease rates on older aircraft may deteriorate and ILFC may incur additional losses on sales or record impairment charges and fair value adjustments.
ILFC recognized asset impairment charges and fair value adjustments related to its fleet in 2011, 2010 and 2009 of $1.7 billion, $1.6 billion and $51 million, respectively.   

Other Operations           

Global Capital Markets            

      The active wind-down of the AIGFP derivatives portfolio was completed by the end of the second quarter of 2011. As a
consequence of its wind-down strategy, AIGFP is entering into new derivative transactions only to hedge its current portfolio. Prior to the wind-down, AIGFP engaged as
principal in a wide variety of financial transactions, including standard and customized financial products involving commodities, credit, currencies, energy, equities and interest rates.   

Historically,
AIGFP derived a significant portion of its revenues from hedged financial positions entered into in connection with counterparty transactions. Prior to the
wind-down, AIGFP also participated as a dealer in a wide variety of financial derivatives transactions.   

      The
senior management of AIG defines the policies and establishes general operating parameters for AIGFP's operations. AIG's senior management has established various oversight
committees to monitor on an ongoing basis the various financial market, operational and credit risk attendant to AIGFP's operations. The senior management of AIGFP reports the results of its
operations to and reviews future strategies with AIG's senior management.   

      AIGFP
actively manages its exposures to limit potential economic losses, and in doing so, AIGFP must continually manage a variety of exposures including credit, market, liquidity,
operational and legal risks.   

  AIG 2011 Form 10-K            175  

Table of Contents    

     AIGFP Derivative Transactions      

      A counterparty may default on any obligation to AIG, including a derivative contract. Credit risk is a consequence of extending credit
and/or carrying trading and investment positions. Credit risk exists for a derivative contract when that contract has a positive fair value to AIG. The maximum potential exposure will increase or
decrease during the life of the derivative commitments as a function of maturity and market conditions. To help manage this risk, AIGFP's credit department operates within the guidelines set by the
CRM. Transactions that fall outside these pre-established guidelines require the specific approval of the CRM. It is also AIG's policy to record credit valuation adjustments for potential
counterparty default when necessary.   

      In
addition, AIGFP utilizes various credit enhancements, including letters of credit, guarantees, collateral, credit triggers, credit derivatives, margin agreements and subordination to
reduce the credit risk relating to its outstanding financial derivative transactions. AIGFP requires credit enhancements in connection with specific transactions based on, among other things, the
creditworthiness of the counterparties, and the transaction's size and maturity. Furthermore, AIGFP generally seeks to enter into agreements that have the benefit of set-off and
close-out netting provisions. These provisions provide that, in the case of
an early termination of a transaction, AIGFP can set off its receivables from a counterparty against its payables to the same counterparty arising out of all covered transactions. As a result, where a
legally enforceable netting agreement exists, the fair value of the transaction with the counterparty represents the net sum of estimated fair values. The fair value of AIGFP's interest rate,
currency, commodity and equity swaps, options, swaptions, and forward commitments, futures, and forward contracts reported in Derivative assets, at fair value, was approximately $3.8 billion at
December 31, 2011 and $4.8 billion at December 31, 2010. Where applicable, these amounts have been determined in accordance with the respective master netting agreements.   

AIGFP
evaluates the counterparty credit quality by reference to ratings from rating agencies or, where such ratings are not available, by internal analysis consistent with the risk
rating policies of the CRM. In addition, AIGFP's credit approval process involves pre-set counterparty and country credit exposure limits subject to approval by the CRM and, for
particularly credit-intensive transactions, requires approval from the CRM.   

   The following table presents the fair value of AIGFP's derivatives portfolios by counterparty credit rating:   

See Critical Accounting Estimates below and Note 12 to the Consolidated Financial Statements for additional discussion related to
derivative transactions.   

     AIGFP Trading VaR      

      AIGFP attempts to minimize risk in benchmark interest rates, equities, commodities and foreign exchange. Market exposures in
option-implied volatilities, correlations and basis risks are also managed over time.   

      AIGFP's
minimal reliance on market risk-driven revenue is reflected in its VaR. AIGFP's VaR calculation is based on the interest rate, equity, commodity and foreign exchange
risk arising from its portfolio. Credit-related factors, such as credit spreads or credit default, are not included in AIGFP's VaR calculation. Because the non-credit market risk with
respect to securities available for sale, at market, is substantially hedged, segregation of the financial instruments into trading and other than trading was not considered necessary. AIGFP operates
under established market risk limits based upon this VaR calculation. In addition, AIGFP back-tests its VaR.   

  176            AIG 2011 Form 10-K  

Table of Contents   

      In
the calculation of VaR for AIGFP, AIG uses the historical simulation methodology based on estimated changes to the value of all transactions under explicit changes in market rates and
prices within a specific historical time period. AIGFP attempts to secure reliable and independent current market prices, such as published exchange prices, external subscription services, such as
Bloomberg or Reuters, or third-party or broker quotes. When such prices are not available, AIGFP uses an internal methodology that includes extrapolation from observable and verifiable prices nearest
to the dates of the transactions. Historically, actual results have not deviated from these models in any material respect.   

      AIGFP
reports its VaR level using a 95 percent confidence level and a one-day holding period, facilitating risk comparison with AIGFP's trading peers and reflecting
the fact that market risks can be actively assumed and offset in AIGFP's trading portfolio.   

The following table presents the year-end, average, high, and low VaRs on a diversified basis and of each component of market risk for AIGFP's operations. The
diversified VaR is usually smaller than the sum of its components due to correlation effects.   

See Critical Accounting Estimates   Fair Value Measurements of Certain Financial Assets and Liabilities  
Level 3 Assets and Liabilities for a comprehensive discussion of AIGFP's super senior credit default swap portfolio.   

CRITICAL ACCOUNTING ESTIMATES    

      The preparation of financial statements in conformity with GAAP requires the application of accounting policies that often involve a significant
degree of judgment. AIG considers its accounting policies that are most dependent
on the application of estimates and assumptions, and therefore viewed as critical accounting estimates, to be those relating to items considered by management in the determination
of:   

estimates with respect to income taxes, including recoverability of the deferred tax asset and the predictability of
future operating profitability of the character necessary to realize the deferred tax asset;     
           recoverability of assets, including deferred policy acquisition costs (DAC), flight equipment, and reinsurance;    
           insurance liabilities, including general insurance unpaid claims and claims adjustment expenses and future policy benefits
for life and accident and health contracts;     
           estimated gross profits for investment-oriented products;     
           impairment charges, including other-than-temporary impairments on financial instruments and
goodwill impairments;     
           liabilities for legal contingencies; and     
           fair value measurements of certain financial assets and liabilities, including CDS and AIG's economic interest in ML II
and equity interest in ML III.    

These
accounting estimates require the use of assumptions about matters, some of which are highly uncertain at the time of estimation. To the extent actual experience differs from the
assumptions used, AIG's financial condition and results of operations would be directly affected.   

  AIG 2011 Form 10-K            177  

Table of Contents   

      The
major categories for which assumptions are developed and used to establish each critical accounting estimate are highlighted below.   

RECOVERABILITY OF DEFERRED TAX ASSET:   

      AIG considers the recoverability of its deferred tax asset to be a critical accounting estimate. The evaluation of the recoverability of the
deferred tax asset and the need for a valuation allowance requires AIG to weigh all positive and negative evidence to reach a conclusion that it is more likely than not that all or some portion of the
deferred tax asset will be realized. The weight given to the evidence is commensurate with the extent to which it can be objectively verified. The more negative evidence that exists, the more positive
evidence is necessary and the more difficult it is to support a conclusion that a valuation allowance is not needed.   

      AIG's
framework for assessing the recoverability of deferred tax assets weighs the sustainability of recent operating profitability, the predictability of future operating profitability
of the character necessary to realize the deferred tax assets, and AIG's emergence from cumulative losses in recent years. The framework requires AIG to consider all available evidence,
including:   

the nature, frequency, and severity of cumulative financial reporting losses in recent years;     
           the sustainability of recent operating profitability of AIG's subsidiaries in various tax jurisdictions;    
           the predictability of future operating profitability of the character necessary to realize the net deferred tax asset;    
           the carryforward periods for the net operating loss (NOL), capital loss and foreign tax credit (FTC) carryforwards,
including the effect of reversing taxable temporary differences; and,     
           prudent and feasible tax planning strategies that would be implemented, if necessary, to protect against the loss of the
deferred tax assets.    

During
2011, AIG experienced significant favorable developments, including the completion of the Recapitalization in January 2011, the wind-down of AIGFP's portfolios, the
sale of certain businesses, emergence from cumulative losses in recent years and a return to sustainable operating profits within its primary operations. During 2011, AIG's level of profitability,
excluding the $3.3 billion loss on extinguishment of debt in January, confirmed its return to sustainable operating profit for the full year. This, together with the emergence from cumulative
losses in recent years and projections of sufficient future taxable income, represents significant positive evidence. As of December 31, 2011, the cumulative positive evidence outweighed the
historical negative evidence regarding the likelihood that the deferred tax asset for AIG's U.S. consolidated income tax group (other than the life-insurance-business capital loss
carryforwards) will be realized. This assessment was evidenced by AIG meeting all of the criteria in its framework, resulting in its conclusion that $16.6 billion of the deferred tax asset
valuation allowance for AIG's U.S. consolidated income tax group should be released in 2011. The life-insurance-business capital loss carryforwards may be realized in the future if and
when, either capital gains are realized or when prudent and feasible tax planning strategies are identified that result in an assessment that the life-insurance-business capital loss
carryforwards will be realized on a more-likely-than-not basis prior to the expiration of such capital loss carryforwards.   

      In
order to demonstrate the predictability and sufficiency of future taxable income necessary to support the realizability of the NOLs, FTCs and nonlife capital loss carryforwards
related to the $16.6 billion valuation allowance release, AIG considered its forecasts of future income for each of its businesses using comparisons to historical results, and actual and
planned business and operational changes, which included assumptions about future macroeconomic and AIG-specific conditions and events. AIG also subjected the forecasts to stresses
(considering various adverse AIG- specific and macro-economic risks) of key assumptions and evaluated the effect on tax attribute utilization. Management also stressed its assumptions
related to the effectiveness of relevant prudent and feasible tax planning strategies. AIG's income forecasts coupled with its tax planning strategies (as well as stressed scenarios), all resulted in
sufficient taxable income to achieve realization of the tax attributes (other than life-insurance-business capital loss carryforwards) prior to their expiration.   

  178            AIG 2011 Form 10-K  

Table of Contents   

U.S. INCOME TAXES ON EARNINGS OF CERTAIN FOREIGN SUBSIDIARIES:   

      Due to the complexity of the U.S. federal income tax laws involved in determining the amount of income taxes related to differences between book
carrying value and tax basis of subsidiaries, as well as the level of judgment and reliance on reasonable assumptions and estimates in calculating this liability, AIG considers the U.S. federal income
taxes accrued on the earnings of certain foreign subsidiaries to be a critical accounting estimate.   

DEFERRED POLICY ACQUISITION COSTS   SHORT DURATION (CHARTIS AND MORTGAGE  GUARANTY):   

      Recoverability of DAC is based on the current terms and profitability of the underlying insurance contracts. Policy acquisition costs are deferred
and amortized over the period in which the related premiums written are earned, generally 12 months for short-duration insurance contracts. DAC is grouped consistent with the manner in which
the insurance contracts are acquired, serviced and measured for profitability and is reviewed for recoverability based on the profitability of the underlying insurance contracts. AIG assesses the
recoverability of its DAC on an annual basis or more frequently if circumstances indicate an impairment may have occurred. This assessment is performed by comparing recorded unearned premium to the
sum of expected claims, claims adjustment expenses, anticipated maintenance costs and unamortized DAC. If the sum of these costs exceeds the amount of recorded unearned premium, the excess is
recognized as an offset against the asset established for DAC. This offset is referred to as a premium deficiency charge. Investment income is not anticipated in assessing the recoverability of DAC.
Increases in expected claims and claims adjustment expenses can have a significant impact on the likelihood and amount of a premium deficiency charge.   

      Management
tested the recoverability of DAC and determined that recorded unearned premiums of its Chartis domestic and international operations exceeded the sum of these costs at
December 31, 2011, by 1 percent and 19 percent, respectively, and, therefore, the DAC of these operations was considered to be recoverable. Short-duration DAC for Chartis domestic
and international operations amounted to $1.7 billion and $1.8 billion, respectively, at December 31, 2011.   

FLIGHT EQUIPMENT RECOVERABILITY (AIRCRAFT LEASING):   

        Expected undiscounted future net cash flows:       based upon current lease rates, projected future lease rates and lease periods and estimated residual or
disposal values of each aircraft based on expectations regarding the use of the aircraft and market participants.   

LIABILITY FOR UNPAID CLAIMS AND CLAIMS ADJUSTMENT EXPENSES (CHARTIS AND MORTGAGE GUARANTY):   

      AIG uses numerous assumptions in determining its best estimate of reserves for each class of business. The importance of any specific assumption
can vary by both class of business and accident year. If actual experience differs from key assumptions used in establishing reserves, there is potential for significant variation in the development
of loss reserves, particularly for long-tail casualty classes of business such as excess casualty, D O or primary and excess workers' compensation. The key assumptions that could have a
material impact on loss reserves are as follows:   

Loss trend factors, which are used to establish expected loss ratios for subsequent accident years based on the projected
loss ratios for prior accident years.     
           Expected loss ratios for the latest accident year (i.e., accident year 2011 for the year-end 2011 loss
reserve analysis) and, in some cases for accident years prior to the latest accident year. The expected loss ratio generally reflects the projected loss ratio from prior accident years, adjusted for
the loss trend (see above) and the effect of rate changes and other quantifiable factors on the loss ratio. For low-frequency, high-severity classes such as excess casualty,
expected loss ratios generally are used for at least the three most recent accident years.    
 
  AIG 2011 Form 10-K            179  

Table of Contents   

Loss development factors, which are used to project the reported losses for each accident year to an ultimate basis.
Generally, the actual loss development factors observed from prior accident years would be used as a basis to determine the loss development factors for the subsequent accident years.    

The
sensitivity analysis presented below addresses each major class of business for which a material deviation from AIG's overall reserve position is believed reasonably possible, and
uses what AIG believes is a reasonably likely range of potential deviation for each class. There can be no assurance, however, that actual reserve development will be consistent with either the
original or the adjusted loss trend or loss development factor assumptions, or that other assumptions made in the reserving process will not materially affect reserve development for a particular
class of business.   

   The following table summarizes the sensitivity analyses that estimate the effect on the loss reserve position of using alternative loss cost trend or loss development factor
assumptions rather than those actually used in determining AIG's estimates in the year-end loss reserve analyses in 2011.   

(a)       Loss cost trend assumption does not have a material impact for this line of business.
         (b)       Percentages not applicable due to extremely long-tailed nature of workers' compensation.      

Alternative Loss Cost Trend and Loss Development Factor Assumptions by Class of Business            

      For classes of business other than the classes discussed below, there is generally some potential for deviation in both the loss cost trend and
loss development factor assumptions. However, the effect of such deviations is expected to be less material when compared to the effect on the classes noted above and discussed below.   

Loss Cost Trends:        The percentage deviations noted in the table below are not considered the highest possible deviations
that
might be expected, but rather what is considered by AIG to reflect a reasonably likely range of potential deviation. Actual loss cost trends in the early 1990s were negative for several years whereas
actual loss cost trends exceeded the figures cited above for several other years. Thus, there can be no assurance that loss trends will not deviate by more than amounts noted above and discussed
below.   

               Loss Development Factors:        The percentage deviations noted in the table below are not considered the highest possible
deviations that might be expected, but rather what is considered by AIG to reflect a reasonably likely range of potential deviation. Except for excess workers' compensation, the assumed loss
development factors are a key assumption. Generally, actual historical loss development factors are used to project future loss   

  180            AIG 2011 Form 10-K  

Table of Contents   

development.
However there can be no assurance that future loss development patterns will be the same as in the past, or that they will not deviate by more than the amounts noted above and discussed
below.   

Class of Business    
     
   Loss Cost Trend    
     
   Loss Development Factor    

Excess Casualty    

The assumed loss cost trend was approximately five percent. After evaluating the historical loss cost trends from prior accident years since the early 1990s, in AIG's judgment, it is reasonably
likely that actual loss cost trends applicable to the year-end 2011 loss reserve review for excess casualty will range from negative five percent to positive 15 percent, or approximately 10 percent lower or higher than the assumption
actually utilized in the year-end 2011 reserve review. The loss cost trend assumption is critical for the excess casualty class of business due to the long-tail nature of the claims and therefore is applied across many accident years. Thus, there is
the potential for the reserves with respect to a number of accident years to be significantly affected by changes in loss cost trends that were initially relied upon in setting the reserves. These changes in loss trends could be attributable to
changes in inflation or in the judicial environment, or in other social or economic conditions affecting claims.  
      
       After evaluating the historical loss development factors from prior accident years since the early 1990s, in AIG's judgment, it is reasonably likely that actual loss development factors will
range from approximately 5.1 percent below those actually utilized in the year-end 2011 reserve review to approximately 4.5 percent above those factors actually utilized. Excess casualty is a long-tail class of business and any deviation in
loss development factors might not be discernible for an extended period of time subsequent to the recording of the initial loss reserve estimates for any accident year. Thus, there is the potential for the reserves with respect to a number of
accident years to be significantly affected by changes in loss development factors that were initially relied upon in setting the reserves. These changes in loss development factors could be attributable to changes in inflation or in the judicial
environment, or in other social or economic conditions affecting claims.  

D O and Related Management Liability Classes of Business    

The assumed loss cost trend was approximately one percent. After evaluating the historical loss cost trends from prior accident years since the early 1990s, including the potential effect of
recent claims relating to the credit crisis, in AIG's judgment, it is reasonably likely that actual loss cost trends applicable to the year-end 2011 loss reserve review for these classes will range from negative 14 percent to positive
21 percent, or approximately 15 percent lower or 20 percent higher than the assumption actually utilized in the year-end 2011 reserve review. Because the D O class of business has exhibited highly volatile loss trends from one
accident year to the next, there is the possibility of an exceptionally high deviation.  
      
       The assumed loss development factors are also an important assumption but less critical than for excess casualty. Because these classes are written on a claims made basis, the loss reporting
and development tail is much shorter than for excess casualty. However, the high severity nature of the claims does create the potential for significant deviations in loss development patterns from one year to the next. After evaluating the
historical loss development factors for these classes of business for accident years since the early 1990s, in AIG's judgment, it is reasonably likely that actual loss development factors will range from approximately 7 percent lower to
10 percent higher than those factors actually utilized in the year-end 2011 loss reserve review for these classes.  

AIG 2011 Form 10-K            181  

Table of Contents   

Class of Business    
     
   Loss Cost Trend    
     
   Loss Development Factor    

Excess Workers' Compensation    

Loss costs were trended at six percent per annum. After reviewing actual industry loss trends for the past ten years, in AIG's judgment, it is reasonably likely that actual loss cost trends
applicable to the year-end 2011 loss reserve review for excess workers' compensation will range five percent lower or higher than this estimated loss trend.  
      
       Excess workers' compensation is an extremely long-tail class of business, with a much greater than normal uncertainty as to the appropriate loss development factors for the tail of the loss
development. After evaluating the historical loss development factors for prior accident years since the 1980s as well as the development over the past several years of the ground up claim projections utilized to help select the loss development
factors in the tail for this class of business, in AIG's judgment, it is reasonably likely that actual loss development for excess workers' compensation could increase the current reserves by up to approximately $1.3 billion or decrease them by
approximately $850 million.  

Primary Workers' Compensation    

The loss cost trend assumption is not believed to be material with respect to AIG's loss reserves. This is primarily because AIG's actuaries are generally able to use loss development
projections for all but the most recent accident year's reserves, so there is limited need to rely on loss cost trend assumptions for primary workers' compensation business.  
      
       Generally, AIG's actual historical workers' compensation loss development factors would be expected to provide a reasonably accurate predictor of future loss development. However, workers'
compensation is a long-tail class of business, and AIG's business reflects a very significant volume of losses, particularly in recent accident years. After evaluating the actual historical loss development since the 1980s for this business, in AIG's
judgment, it is reasonably likely that actual loss development factors will fall within the range of approximately 3.4 percent below to 7.2 percent above those actually utilized in the year-end 2011 loss reserve review.  

See Results of Operations   Segment Results   Chartis Operations   Liability for Unpaid
Claims and Claims Adjustment Expense herein for additional information on AIG's reserve for unpaid claims and claims adjustment expenses.   

182            AIG 2011 Form 10-K  

Table of Contents    

FUTURE POLICY BENEFITS FOR LIFE AND ACCIDENT AND HEALTH INSURANCE CONTRACTS (SUNAMERICA COMPANIES):   

Periodically, AIG evaluates estimates used in establishing liabilities for Future policy benefits for life and accident and health insurance
contracts, which include liabilities for certain payout annuities. AIG also evaluates estimates used in amortizing Deferred Policy Acquisition Costs (DAC), Value of Business Acquired (VOBA) and Sales
Inducement Assets (SIA) for these products. These estimates are evaluated against actual experience and adjusted based on management judgment regarding mortality, morbidity, persistency, maintenance
expenses, and investment returns. For long duration traditional business, a "lock-in" principle applies, whereby the assumptions used to calculate the benefit liabilities and DAC are set
when a policy is issued and do not change with changes in actual experience, unless a loss recognition event occurs. These assumptions include margins for adverse deviation in the event that actual
experience might deviate from these assumptions. The key assumptions used in estimating future policy benefit reserves are:   

Investment returns:       which vary by year of issuance and
products.     
            Mortality, morbidity and surrender rates:       based upon actual
experience modified to allow for variation in policy form, risk classification and distribution channel.    

As
AIG experience changes over time, the assumptions are updated to reflect observed changes. Because of the long term nature of many of AIG's liabilities subject to the
"lock-in" principle, small changes in certain assumptions may cause large changes in the degree of reserve adequacy. In particular, changes in estimates of future invested asset returns
have a large effect on the degree of reserve deficiency. If observed changes in actual experience or estimates result in projected future losses under loss recognition testing, DAC is adjusted through
amortization expense, and additional liabilities are recorded through a charge to policyholder benefit expense. Loss recognition testing is performed at an aggregate SunAmerica reporting segment
level. Once loss recognition has been recorded for a block of business, the old assumption set is replaced (i.e., a DAC unlocking), and the assumption set used for the loss recognition would
then be subject to the lock-in principle. See Note 2(g) to the Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information.   

      These
estimates are also used to determine whether to adjust DAC and record additional liabilities when unrealized gains or losses on fixed maturity and equity securities available for
sale are recognized through accumulated other comprehensive income, at each balance sheet date, as if the securities had been sold at their stated aggregate fair value and the proceeds reinvested at
current yields. Significant unrealized appreciation on investments in a prolonged low interest rate environment may cause DAC to be adjusted and additional future policy benefit liabilities to be
recorded through a charge directly to accumulated other comprehensive income, which is included, net of tax, with the change in net unrealized appreciation (depreciation) of investments.   

      AIG's
future policy benefits include guaranteed minimum death benefits (GMDB). The GMDB liability is determined each period end by estimating the expected value of death benefits in
excess of the projected account balance and recognizing the excess ratably over the accumulation period based on total expected fees. The estimates incorporate assumptions including interest rates,
mortality rates, lapse rates and stochastically generated investment returns. In addition to GMDB, AIG's future policy benefits include, to a lesser extent, guaranteed minimum income benefits (GMIB).
The GMIB liability is determined each period end by estimating the expected value of the annuitization benefits in excess of the projected account balance at the date of annuitization and recognizing
the excess ratably over the accumulation period based on total expected assessments. AIG periodically evaluates estimates used and adjusts the additional liability balance, with a related charge or
credit to benefit expense, if actual experience or other evidence suggests that earlier assumptions should be revised.   

      AIG
also issues certain variable annuity products that offer optional guaranteed minimum withdrawal benefits (GMWB) and guaranteed minimum account value benefits (GMAV). These living
benefits are embedded derivatives that are required to be bifurcated from the host contract and carried at fair value. The fair value estimates of the living benefit guarantees include assumptions
such as equity market returns, interest rates, market volatility and policyholder behavior. AIG also incorporates its own risk of non-performance in the valuation of the embedded policy
derivatives. See Note 6 to the Consolidated Financial Statements for information on how AIG incorporates its own non-performance risk.   

  AIG 2011 Form 10-K            183  

Table of Contents   

      AIG
has a dynamic hedging program designed to manage economic risk exposure associated with changes in the fair value of GMWB and GMAV liabilities caused by changes in the equity
markets, interest rates and market implied volatilities. The program utilizes hedging instruments, including derivatives such as equity options, futures contracts and interest rate swap contracts, and
is designed so that changes in value of the hedging instruments move in the opposite direction of changes in the GMWB and GMAV embedded derivative liabilities. AIG monitors daily, and rebalances as
needed, the hedging positions in relation to the change in valuation of GMWB and GMAV embedded derivative liabilities. However, differences between the change in fair value of GMWB and GMAV embedded
derivative liabilities and the hedging instruments can be caused by extreme and unanticipated movements in the equity markets, interest rates and market volatility, policyholder behavior, statutory
capital considerations and constraints and the ability to purchase hedging instruments at prices consistent with the desired risk and return trade-off. None of the derivative instruments
described above are designated for hedge accounting.   

      Approximately
48 percent of AIG's individual variable annuity account values contain either a GMWB rider or a GMAV rider as of December 31, 2011. Declines in the equity
markets, increased volatility and a sustained low interest rate environment increase AIG's exposure to potential benefits under the GMWB and GMAV contracts, leading to an increase in the existing
liability for those benefits. AIG's exposure to the guaranteed amounts is equal to the amount by which the contract holder's account balance is below the guaranteed withdrawal or account value amount.
As of December 31, 2011, AIG's exposure to the guaranteed withdrawal and account value amount under GMWB and GMAV was $1.4 billion and $27 million, respectively. However, the only
way the GMWB contract holder can monetize the excess of the guaranteed amount over the account value of the contract is through a series of withdrawals that do not exceed a specific percentage per
year of the guaranteed amount. If, after the series of withdrawals, the account value is exhausted, the contract holder will receive a series of annuity payments equal to the remaining guaranteed
amount, and, for lifetime GWWB products, the annuity payments can continue beyond the guaranteed amount. The account value can also fluctuate with equity market returns on a daily basis resulting in
increases or decreases in the excess of the guaranteed amount over account value.   

      The
net impact of the change in the fair value of the embedded derivative liabilities, as well as the change in the fair value of the derivative instruments is included in Net Realized
Capital Gains (Losses).   

      For
a further discussion of the risks of AIG's unhedged exposures, see Item 1A.   Risk Factors   Guarantees Within Variable Annuities.   

ESTIMATED GROSS PROFITS FOR INTEREST-SENSITIVE PRODUCTS (SUNAMERICA COMPANIES):   

      Estimated gross profits (EGP) are subject to differing market returns and interest rate environments in any single period. EGP is composed of net
interest income, net realized investment gains and losses, fees, surrender charges, expenses, and mortality and morbidity gains and losses. When assumptions are changed, the percentage of EGP used to
amortize DAC might also change.   

      In
estimating EGP, AIG makes certain assumptions regarding the investment returns to be generated, market interest rates and mortality rates. Changes in any of these assumptions could
materially change the amortization of DAC and related balances.   

  184            AIG 2011 Form 10-K  

Table of Contents   

   The following table summarizes the sensitivity of changes in certain assumptions in the amortization of DAC/SIA, guaranteed benefits reserve and unearned revenue liability and
the related hypothetical impact on year-end 2011 balances. The effect of changes in the equity markets, volatility and interest rates primarily impacts individual variable annuities
(SunAmerica Retirement Markets) and group retirement products (VALIC). The effect of changes in mortality primarily impacts the universal life insurance business.   

(a)       Represents the net impact of 1 percent increase or decrease in long-term equity returns for GMDB and GMIB reserves and negligible net
impact of 1 percent increase or decrease in the S P 500 index for living benefit reserves.   
       (b)      Represents the net impact of 1 percentage point increase or decrease in implied
volatility.   
       (c)      Represents the net impact of a 10 basis point parallel shift in the yield curve. Does not represent interest rate spread
compression.    

The analysis of DAC, guaranteed benefits reserve and unearned revenue liability is a dynamic process that considers all relevant factors and
assumptions described above. Each of the factors set forth above is estimated individually, without consideration of any correlation among the key assumptions. An assessment of sensitivity associated
with changes in any single assumption would not necessarily be an indicator of future results.   

OTHER-THAN-TEMPORARY IMPAIRMENTS ON AVAILABLE FOR SALE SECURITIES:   

      At each balance sheet date, AIG evaluates its available for sale securities holdings with unrealized losses.   

      See
the discussion in Note 7 to the Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information on the methodology and significant inputs, by security type, that AIG uses to
determine the amount of other-than-temporary impairment on fixed maturity and equity securities.   

GOODWILL IMPAIRMENT:   

      Goodwill is the excess of the cost of an acquired business over the fair value of the identifiable net assets of the acquired business. Goodwill
is tested for impairment annually, or more frequently if circumstances indicate an impairment may have occurred.   

The
impairment assessment involves a two-step process in which an initial assessment for potential impairment is performed and, if potential impairment is present, the amount
of impairment is measured (if any) and recorded. Impairment is tested at the reporting unit level.   

      Management
initially assesses the potential for impairment by estimating the fair value of each of AIG's reporting units and comparing the estimated fair values with the carrying amounts
of those reporting units, including allocated goodwill. The estimate of a reporting unit's fair value may be based on one or a combination of approaches including market-based earning multiples of the
unit's peer companies, discounted expected future cash flows, external appraisals or, in the case of reporting units being considered for sale, third-party indications of   

  AIG 2011 Form 10-K            185  

Table of Contents   

fair
value, if available. Management considers one or more of these estimates when determining the fair value of a reporting unit to be used in the impairment test.   

If
the estimated fair value of a reporting unit exceeds its carrying value, goodwill is not impaired. If the carrying value of a reporting unit exceeds its estimated fair value, goodwill
associated with that reporting unit is potentially impaired. The amount of impairment, if any, is measured as the excess of the carrying value of goodwill over the implied fair value of the goodwill.
The implied fair value of the goodwill is measured as the excess of the fair value of the reporting unit over the amounts that would be assigned to the reporting unit's assets and liabilities in a
hypothetical business combination. An impairment charge is recognized in earnings to the extent of the excess.   

      During
2011, Chartis finalized its reorganization, operating design and related segment reporting changes. In connection with this reorganization, total goodwill of $1.4 billion
was allocated between Commercial Insurance and Consumer Insurance based on their relative fair values as of September 30, 2011. Management tested the allocated goodwill for impairment and
determined that the fair values of the Commercial Insurance and Consumer Insurance reporting units exceeded book value at both September 30, and December 31, 2011 and therefore the
goodwill of these reporting units was considered not impaired.   

      AIG
will continue to monitor overall competitive, business and economic conditions, and other events or circumstances, including Chartis operating results that might result in an
impairment of goodwill in the future.   

LIABILITY FOR LEGAL CONTINGENCIES:   

      AIG estimates and records a liability for potential losses that may arise from litigation and regulatory proceedings to the extent such losses are
probable and can be estimated. Determining a reasonable estimate of the amount of such losses requires significant management judgment. In many such proceedings, it is not possible to determine
whether a liability has been incurred or to estimate the ultimate or minimum amount of that liability until the matter is close to resolution. In view of the inherent difficulty of predicting the
outcome of such matters, particularly in cases in which claimants seek substantial or indeterminate damages, AIG often cannot predict the outcome or estimate the eventual loss or range of reasonably
possible losses related to such matters.   

REINSURANCE RECOVERABLES:   

      In the ordinary course of business, AIG's general insurance and life insurance companies enter into reinsurance arrangements with other insurance
companies to provide greater diversification of AIG's business and limit the potential for losses arising from large risks.   

General
reinsurance is effected under reinsurance treaties and by negotiation on individual risks. Certain of these reinsurance arrangements consist of excess of loss contracts which
protect AIG against losses over stipulated amounts. AIG determines what portion of the losses will be recoverable under the reinsurance policies by reference to the terms of the reinsurance protection
purchased. This determination is necessarily based on the underlying loss estimates and, accordingly, is subject to the same uncertainties as the estimate of loss reserves noted above. The sensitivity
analysis presented above in the Liability for Unpaid Claims and Claims Adjustment Expenses section is performed net of reinsurance, and therefore includes the variability of the key assumptions used
in estimating reinsurance recoverables. There can be no assurance, however, that actual reserve development will be consistent with either the original or the adjusted loss trend or loss development
factor assumptions, or that other assumptions made in the reserving process will not materially affect reserve development for a particular class of business.   

      AIG's
third-party reinsurance arrangements do not relieve AIG from its direct obligation to its insureds. Thus, a credit exposure exists with respect to both general and life reinsurance
ceded to the extent that any reinsurer fails to meet the obligations assumed under any reinsurance agreement. AIG evaluates the financial condition of its reinsurers and establishes limits per
reinsurer. In the current environment of weaker economic conditions and strained financial markets, certain reinsurers are reporting losses and could be subject to rating downgrades. AIG's reinsurance
recoverable exposures are primarily to the regulated subsidiaries of such companies which are subject to minimum regulatory capital requirements. AIG's RCD, in conjunction with AIG's credit executives
within corporate ERM, regularly reviews these developments, monitors compliance with credit triggers that may require   

  186            AIG 2011 Form 10-K  

Table of Contents   

the
reinsurer to post collateral, and, as appropriate, seeks to use other means to mitigate any material risks arising from these developments. AIG believes that no exposure to a single reinsurer
represents an inappropriate concentration of risk to AIG, nor is AIG's business substantially dependent upon any single reinsurer.   

      General
Insurance assesses the collectability of its reinsurance recoverable balances through detailed reviews of the underlying nature of the reinsurance balance, including paid and
unpaid recoverables, whether the balance is in dispute or a legal collection status, whether the insurer is financially troubled (i.e., liquidated, insolvent, in receivership or otherwise
subject to formal or informal regulatory restriction), whether collateral and collateral arrangements exist, and the credit quality of the underlying insurer. Detailed reviews of the underlying
receivables are particularly important when assessing recoverables attributable to long-tail exposures. Adjustments to reflect the results of the detailed review are recorded through an
allowance for uncollectable reinsurance. At December 31, 2011 and 2010, the allowance for estimated unrecoverable reinsurance was $365 million and $492 million, respectively.   

      AIG
holds substantial collateral as security under related reinsurance agreements in the form of funds, securities, and/or letters of credit. AIG has been largely successful in prior
recovery efforts.   

      See
Note 9 to the Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information on Reinsurance.   

FAIR VALUE MEASUREMENTS OF CERTAIN FINANCIAL ASSETS AND LIABILITIES:   

      See Note 6 to the Consolidated Financial Statements for more detailed information about the measurement of fair value of financial assets
and financial liabilities and AIG's accounting policy for the incorporation of credit risk in fair value measurements.   

   The following table presents the fair value of fixed income and equity securities by source of value determination:   

(a)       Includes $20.9 billion for which the primary source is broker quotes.
         (b)       Includes available for sale and trading securities.      

Level 3 Assets and Liabilities            

      Assets and liabilities recorded at fair value in the Consolidated Balance Sheet are measured and classified in a hierarchy for disclosure purposes
consisting of three "levels" based on the observability of inputs available in the marketplace used to measure the fair value. See Note 6 to the Consolidated Financial Statements for additional
information about the three levels of observability.   

      At
December 31, 2011, AIG classified $39.4 billion and $5.3 billion of assets and liabilities, respectively, measured at fair value on a recurring basis as
Level 3. This represented 7.1 percent and 1.2 percent of the total assets and liabilities, respectively, at December 31, 2011. At December 31, 2010, AIG classified
$36.3 billion and $6.2 billion of
assets and liabilities, respectively, measured at fair value on a recurring basis as Level 3. This represented 5.3 percent and 1.1 percent of the total assets and liabilities,
respectively, at December 31, 2010. Level 3 fair value measurements are based on valuation techniques that use at least one significant input that is unobservable. These measurements are
made under circumstances in which there is little, if any, market activity for the asset or liability. AIG's assessment of the significance of a particular input to the fair value measurement in its
entirety requires judgment.   

      AIG
values certain assets and liabilities classified as Level 3 using judgment and valuation models or other pricing techniques that require a variety of inputs including
contractual terms, market prices and rates, yield   

  AIG 2011 Form 10-K            187  

Table of Contents   

curves,
credit curves, measures of volatility, prepayment rates and correlations of such inputs, some of which may be unobservable. The following paragraphs describe the methods AIG uses to measure on
a recurring basis the fair value of the certain classes of assets and liabilities classified in Level 3. See Note 6 to the Consolidated Financial Statements for discussion of the
valuation methodologies for other assets classified in Level 3, including certain fixed maturity securities and certain other invested assets, as well as discussion of transfers of
Level 3 assets and liabilities.   

Maiden Lane II and Maiden Lane III           

      At their inception, AIG's interests in ML II and ML III were valued and recorded at the transaction prices of $1 billion and
$5 billion, respectively. See Note 6 to the Consolidated Financial Statements for a discussion of the valuation methodologies applied to ML II and ML III since inception and sensitivity
analysis disclosures with respect to the Maiden Lane Interests.   

AIGFP Super Senior Credit Default Swap Portfolio           

      AIGFP wrote credit protection on the super senior risk layer of collateralized loan obligations (CLOs), multi-sector CDOs and diversified
portfolios of corporate debt, and prime residential mortgages. In these transactions, AIGFP is at risk of credit performance on the super senior risk layer related to such assets. To a lesser extent,
AIGFP also wrote protection on tranches below the super senior risk layer, primarily in respect of regulatory capital relief transactions.   

   The following table presents the net notional amount, fair value of derivative (asset) liability and unrealized market valuation gain (loss) of the AIGFP super senior credit
default swap portfolio, including credit default swaps written on mezzanine tranches of certain regulatory capital relief transactions, by asset class:   

(a)       Net notional amounts presented are net of all structural subordination below the covered tranches.   
       (b)      Fair value amounts are shown before the effects of counterparty netting adjustments and offsetting cash
collateral.   
       (c)      Includes credit valuation adjustment gains (losses) of $26 million and ($133) million in the years ended December 31,
2011 and 2010, respectively, representing the effect of changes in AIG's credit spreads on the valuation of the derivatives liabilities.   
       (d)      During 2011, AIGFP terminated two super senior prime residential mortgage transactions, with a combined net notional amount of
$24.1 billion, that had previously been the subject of a collateral dispute. In addition, AIGFP terminated all of the related mezzanine tranches and hedge transactions related to those
mezzanine tranches, with a combined net notional amount of $2.2 billion. The transactions were terminated at values that approximated their collective fair values at the time of
termination.   
       (e)      During 2011, AIGFP liquidated one multi-sector super senior CDS transaction with a net notional amount of $188 million. The
primary underlying collateral components, which consisted of individual ABS CDS transactions, were sold in an auction to counterparties, including AIGFP, at their approximate fair value at the time of
the liquidation. AIGFP was the winning bidder on approximately $107 million of individual ABS CDS transactions, which are reported in written single name credit default swaps as of
December 31, 2011. During 2011, AIGFP also paid $37 million to its counterparties with respect to multi-sector CDOs. Multi-sector CDOs also include $4.6 billion and
$5.5 billion in net notional amount of credit default swaps written with cash settlement provisions at December 31, 2011 and December 31, 2010,
respectively.    

188            AIG 2011 Form 10-K  

Table of Contents   

(f)      Corporate debt/CLOs include $1.2 billion and $1.3 billion in net notional amount of credit default swaps written on the
super senior tranches of CLOs at December 31, 2011 and December 31, 2010, respectively.   
       (g)      Net of offsetting purchased CDS of $1.4 billion in net notional amount at December 31, 2010. There were no offsetting
purchased CDSs at December 31, 2011.    

The following table presents changes in the net notional amount of the AIGFP super senior credit default swap portfolio, including
credit default swaps written on mezzanine tranches of certain regulatory capital relief transactions:   

(a)       Net notional amounts presented are net of all structural subordination below the covered tranches.   
       (b)      Relates primarily to fluctuations in the U.S. dollar/Euro exchange rate throughout the
year.   
       (c)      Multi-sector CDOs include $4.6 billion and $5.5 billion in net notional amount of credit default swaps written with
cash settlement provisions at December 31, 2011 and December 31, 2010, respectively.   
       (d)      Corporate debt/CLOs include $1.2 billion and $1.3 billion in net notional amount of credit default swaps written on the
super senior tranches of CLOs at December 31, 2011 and December 31, 2010, respectively.   
       (e)      Net of offsetting purchased CDS of $1.4 billion in net notional amount at December 31, 2010. There were no offsetting
purchased CDS at December 31, 2011.    

The following table presents summary statistics for the AIGFP super senior credit default swaps at December 31, 2011 and totals
for December 31, 2011 and 2010:   

AIG 2011 Form 10-K            189  

Table of Contents    

Regulatory Capital Portfolio            

      During 2011, $26.0 billion in net notional amount of regulatory capital CDSs were terminated or matured at no cost to AIGFP.
AIGFP continues to reassess the expected maturity of this portfolio. As of December 31, 2011, AIGFP estimated that the weighted average expected maturity of the portfolio was 0.86 years.
AIGFP has not been required to make any payments as part of terminations of super senior regulatory capital CDSs initiated by counterparties. However, during 2011, AIGFP terminated mezzanine tranches
and the hedge transactions related to those mezzanine tranches, all of which related to certain super senior regulatory capital trades and made payments which approximated their values at the time of
termination. The regulatory benefit of these transactions for AIGFP's financial institution counterparties was generally derived from Basel I. In December 2010, the Basel Committee on Banking
Supervision finalized Basel III, which, when fully implemented, may reduce or eliminate the regulatory benefits to certain counterparties for these transactions, and this may reduce the period of time
that such counterparties are expected to hold the positions. In prior years, it had been expected that financial institution counterparties would complete a transition from Basel I to an intermediate
standard known as Basel II, which could have had similar effects on the benefits of these transactions, at the end of 2009. Basel III has now superseded Basel II, but the details of its implementation
by the various European Central Banking districts have not been finalized. Should certain counterparties continue to
receive favorable regulatory capital benefits from these transactions, those counterparties may not exercise their options to terminate the transactions in the expected time frame.   

      The
weighted average expected maturity of the Regulatory Capital Portfolio decreased as of December 31, 2011 by approximately 2.3 years from December 31, 2010 due to
the termination of two transactions that had a longer than average weighted average maturity. Because the remaining counterparties continue to have a right to terminate the transaction early, AIGFP
has extended the expected maturity dates by one year, which is based on how long AIGFP believes the relevant rules under Basel I will remain effective. These counterparties in the Corporate Loan and
Prime Residential Mortgage portfolios continue to receive favorable regulatory capital benefits under Basel I rules and, thus, AIG continues to categorize them as Regulatory Capital transactions.   

      During
2011, AIGFP terminated two super senior prime residential mortgage transactions, with a combined net notional amount of $24.1 billion, that had previously been the subject
of a collateral dispute. In addition, AIGFP terminated all of the related mezzanine tranches and hedge transactions related to those mezzanine tranches, with a combined net notional amount of
$2.2 billion. These transactions were terminated at values that approximated their collective fair value at the time of termination.   

      In
light of early termination experience to date and after analyses of other market data, to the extent deemed relevant and available, AIG determined that there was no unrealized market
valuation adjustment for any of the transactions in this regulatory capital relief portfolio for 2011 other than for transactions where AIGFP believes the counterparty is no longer using the
transaction to obtain regulatory capital relief as discussed above. Although AIGFP believes the value of contractual fees receivable on these transactions through maturity exceeds the economic
benefits of any potential payments to the counterparties, the counterparties' early termination rights, and AIGFP's expectation that such rights will be exercised, preclude the recognition of a
derivative asset for these transactions.   

Arbitrage Portfolio            

      A portion of the AIGFP super senior credit default swaps as of December 31, 2011 are arbitrage-motivated transactions written on
multi-sector CDOs or designated pools of investment grade senior unsecured corporate debt or CLOs.   

190            AIG 2011 Form 10-K  

Table of Contents   

     Multi-Sector CDOs      

   The following table summarizes gross transaction notional amount of the multi-sector CDOs on which AIGFP wrote protection on the super senior tranche, subordination below the
super senior risk layer, net notional amount and fair value of derivative liability by underlying collateral type:   

(a)       Total outstanding principal amount of securities held by a CDO.   
       (b)      "High grade" refers to transactions in which the underlying collateral credit ratings on a stand-alone basis were predominantly AA or
higher at origination.   
       (c)      "Mezzanine" refers to transactions in which the underlying collateral credit ratings on a stand-alone basis were predominantly A or
lower at origination.    

Corporate Debt/CLOs      

      The corporate arbitrage portfolio consists principally of CDS written on portfolios of corporate obligations that were generally rated
investment grade at the inception of the CDS. These CDS transactions require cash settlement. This portfolio also includes CDS with a net notional amount of $1.2 billion written on the senior
part of the capital structure of CLOs, which require physical settlement.   

Collateral            

      Most of the AIGFP credit default swaps are subject to collateral posting provisions. These provisions differ among counterparties and
asset classes. Although AIGFP has collateral posting obligations associated with both regulatory capital relief transactions and arbitrage transactions, the large majority of these obligations to date
have been associated with arbitrage transactions in respect of multi-sector CDOs.   

     Collateral Calls      

      AIGFP has received collateral calls from counterparties in respect of certain super senior credit default swaps, of which a large
majority relate to multi-sector CDOs. To a lesser extent, AIGFP has also received collateral calls in respect of certain super senior credit default swaps entered into by counterparties for regulatory
capital relief purposes and in respect of corporate arbitrage.   

      From
time to time, valuation methodologies used and estimates made by counterparties with respect to certain super senior credit default swaps or the underlying reference CDO securities,
for purposes of determining the amount of collateral required to be posted by AIGFP in connection with such instruments, have resulted in estimates that differ, at times significantly, from AIGFP's
estimates. In almost all cases, AIGFP has been able to successfully resolve the differences or otherwise reach an accommodation with respect to collateral posting levels, including in certain cases by
entering into compromise collateral arrangements. Due to the ongoing nature of collateral arrangements, AIGFP regularly is engaged in discussions with one or more counterparties in respect of these
differences. Valuation estimates made by counterparties for collateral purposes are, like any other third-party valuation, considered in the determination of the fair value estimates of the AIGFP
super senior credit default swap portfolio.   

  AIG 2011 Form 10-K            191  

Table of Contents   

   The following table presents the amount of collateral postings with respect to the AIGFP super senior credit default swap portfolio (prior to offsets for other
transactions):   

The amount of future collateral posting requirements is a function of AIG's credit ratings, the rating of the reference obligations and the market
value of the relevant reference obligations, with the latter being the most significant factor. While a high level of correlation exists between the amount of collateral posted and the valuation of
these contracts in respect of the arbitrage portfolio, a similar relationship does not exist with respect to the regulatory capital portfolio given the nature of how the amount of collateral for these
transactions is determined. AIGFP estimates the amount of potential future collateral postings associated with its super senior credit default swaps using various methodologies. The contingent
liquidity requirements associated with such potential future collateral postings are incorporated into AIG's liquidity planning assumptions.   

Valuation Sensitivity   Arbitrage Portfolio            

     Multi-Sector CDOs      

      AIG utilizes sensitivity analyses that estimate the effects of using alternative pricing and other key inputs on AIG's calculation of
the unrealized market valuation loss related to the AIGFP super senior credit default swap portfolio. While AIG believes that the ranges used in these analyses are reasonable, given the current
difficult market conditions, AIG is unable to predict which of the scenarios is most likely to occur. As recent experience demonstrates, actual results in any period are likely to vary, perhaps
materially, from the modeled scenarios, and there can be no assurance that the unrealized market valuation loss related to the AIGFP super senior credit default swap portfolio will be consistent with
any of the sensitivity analyses. On average, prices for CDOs decreased during 2011. Further, it is difficult to extrapolate future experience based on current market conditions.   

      For
the purposes of estimating sensitivities for the super senior multi-sector CDO credit default swap portfolio, the change in valuation derived using the BET model is used to estimate
the change in the fair value of the derivative liability. Out of the total $5.5 billion net notional amount of CDS written on multi-sector CDOs outstanding at December 31, 2011, a BET
value is available for $3.6 billion net notional amount. No BET value is determined for $1.9 billion of CDS written on European multi-sector CDOs as prices on the underlying securities
held by the CDOs are not provided by collateral managers; instead these CDS are valued using counterparty prices. Therefore, sensitivities disclosed below apply only to the net notional amount of
$3.6 billion.   

      The
most significant assumption used in the BET model is the estimated price of the securities within the CDO collateral pools. If the actual price of the securities within the
collateral pools differs from the price used in estimating the fair value of the super senior credit default swap portfolio, there is potential for material variation in the fair value estimate. Any
further declines in the value of the underlying collateral securities held by a CDO will similarly affect the value of the super senior CDO securities. While the models attempt to predict changes in
the prices of underlying collateral securities held within a CDO, the changes are subject to actual market conditions which have proved to be highly volatile, especially given current market
conditions. AIG cannot predict reasonably likely changes in the prices of the underlying collateral securities held within a CDO at this time.   

192            AIG 2011 Form 10-K  

Table of Contents   

The following table presents key inputs used in the BET model, and the potential increase (decrease) to the fair value of the derivative liability by ABS category at
December 31, 2011 corresponding to changes in these key inputs:   

(a)       The diversity score is an input at the CDO level. A calculation of sensitivity to this input by type of security is not
possible.   
       (b)      The discount curve is an input at the CDO level. A calculation of sensitivity to this input by type of security is not possible.
Furthermore, for this input it is not possible to disclose a weighted average input as a discount curve consists of a series of data points.    

These results are calculated by stressing a particular assumption independently of changes in any other assumption. No assurance can be given that
the actual levels of the key inputs will not exceed, perhaps significantly, the ranges assumed by AIGFP for purposes of the above analysis. No assumption should be made that results calculated from
the use of other changes in these key inputs can be interpolated or extrapolated from the results set forth above.   

     Corporate Debt      

   The following table represents the relevant market credit inputs used to estimate the sensitivity for the credit default swap portfolio written on investment-grade corporate
debt and the estimated increase (decrease) in fair value of derivative liability at December 31, 2011 corresponding to changes in these market credit inputs:   

Input Used at December 31, 2011      (in millions)    
     
  Increase (Decrease) 
in Fair Value of 
Derivative Liability   

Credit spreads for all names  

Effect of an increase by 10 basis points  
     
  $  
  14  

Effect of a decrease by 10 basis points  
     
  $  
  (14  
  )  

All base correlations  

Effect of an increase by 1%  
     
  $  
  4  

Effect of a decrease by 1%  
     
  $  
  (4  
  )  

Assumed recovery rate  

Effect of an increase by 1%  
     
  $  
  (4  
  )  

Effect of a decrease by 1%  
     
  $  
  4  

These results are calculated by stressing a particular assumption independently of changes in any other assumption. No assurance can be given that
the actual levels of the key inputs will not exceed, perhaps significantly, the ranges assumed by AIGFP for purposes of the above analysis. No assumption should be made that results calculated from
the use of other changes in these key inputs can be interpolated or extrapolated from the results set forth above.   

Other derivatives.       Valuation models that incorporate unobservable inputs initially are calibrated to the transaction price. Subsequent valuations are
based on observable inputs to the valuation model (e.g., interest rates, credit spreads, volatilities, etc.). Model inputs are changed only when corroborated by observable market data.   

  AIG 2011 Form 10-K            193  

Table of Contents    

ITEM 7A. QUANTITATIVE AND QUALITATIVE DISCLOSURES ABOUT MARKET RISK            

The information required by this item is set forth in the Enterprise Risk Management section of Item 7. Management's Discussion and
Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations and is incorporated herein by reference.   

  194            AIG 2011 Form 10-K  

Table of Contents    

ITEM 8. FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND SUPPLEMENTARY DATA            

American International Group, Inc. Index to Financial Statements and Schedules          

AIG 2011 Form 10-K            195  

Table of Contents    

Report of Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm          

To the Board of Directors and Shareholders of American International Group, Inc.:            

      In our opinion, the consolidated financial statements listed in the accompanying index present fairly, in all material respects, the
financial position of American International Group, Inc. and its subsidiaries (AIG) at December 31, 2011 and 2010, and the results of their operations and their cash flows for each of
the three years in the period ended December 31, 2011 in conformity with accounting principles generally
accepted in the United States of America. In addition, in our opinion, the financial statement schedules listed in the accompanying index present fairly, in all material respects, the information set
forth therein when read in conjunction with the related consolidated financial statements. Also in our opinion, AIG maintained, in all material respects, effective internal control over financial
reporting as of December 31, 2011, based on criteria established in    Internal Control   Integrated Framework    issued by the
Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of the Treadway Commission (COSO). AIG's management is responsible for these financial statements and financial statement schedules, for maintaining effective
internal control over financial reporting and for its assessment of the effectiveness of internal control over financial reporting, included in Management's Report on Internal Control Over Financial
Reporting appearing under Item 9A in the 2011 Form 10-K. Our responsibility is to express opinions on these financial statements, on the financial statement schedules, and on
AIG's internal control over financial reporting based on our integrated audits. We conducted our audits in accordance with the standards of the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board (United
States). Those standards require that we plan and perform the audits to obtain reasonable assurance about whether the financial statements are free of material misstatement and whether effective
internal control over financial reporting was maintained in all material respects. Our audits of the financial statements included examining, on a test basis, evidence supporting the amounts and
disclosures in the financial statements, assessing the accounting principles used and significant estimates made by management, and evaluating the overall financial statement presentation. Our audit
of internal control over financial reporting included obtaining an understanding of internal control over financial reporting, assessing the risk that a material weakness exists, and testing and
evaluating the design and operating effectiveness of internal control based on the assessed risk. Our audits also included performing such other procedures as we considered necessary in the
circumstances. We believe that our audits provide a reasonable basis for our opinions.   

      As
described in Note 2 to the Consolidated Financial Statements, AIG changed the manner in which it accounts for other-than-temporary impairments of fixed
maturity securities as of April 1, 2009.   

      A
company's internal control over financial reporting is a process designed to provide reasonable assurance regarding the reliability of financial reporting and the preparation of
financial statements for external purposes in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles. A company's internal control over financial reporting includes those policies and procedures
that (i) pertain to the maintenance of records that, in reasonable detail, accurately and fairly reflect the transactions and dispositions of the assets of the company; (ii) provide
reasonable assurance that transactions are recorded as necessary to permit preparation of financial statements in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles, and that receipts and
expenditures of the company are being made only in accordance with authorizations of management and directors of the company; and (iii) provide reasonable assurance regarding prevention or
timely detection of unauthorized acquisition, use, or disposition of the company's assets that could have a material effect on the financial statements.   

      Because
of its inherent limitations, internal control over financial reporting may not prevent or detect misstatements. Also, projections of any evaluation of effectiveness to future
periods are subject to the risk that controls may become inadequate because of changes in conditions, or that the degree of compliance with the policies or procedures may deteriorate.   

  /s/
   PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP   

  New
York, New York 
February 23, 2012   

  196            AIG 2011 Form 10-K  

Table of Contents    

American International Group, Inc.   Consolidated Balance Sheet          

See Accompanying Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements.     

  AIG 2011 Form 10-K            197  

Table of Contents   

American International Group, Inc.   Consolidated Balance Sheet    (Continued)            

See Accompanying Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements.     

  198            AIG 2011 Form 10-K  

Table of Contents    

American International Group, Inc.   Consolidated Statement of Operations          

See Accompanying Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements.     

  AIG 2011 Form 10-K            199  

Table of Contents    

American International Group, Inc.   Consolidated Statement of Comprehensive Income          

See Accompanying Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements.     

200            AIG 2011 Form 10-K  

Table of Contents    

American International Group, Inc.   Consolidated Statement of Equity          

See Accompanying Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements.     

  AIG 2011 Form 10-K            201  

Table of Contents   

American International Group, Inc.   Consolidated Statement of Equity     (Continued)          

(a)      Excludes gains of $560 million, $73 million and $280 million in 2011, 2010 and 2009, respectively, attributable
to redeemable noncontrolling interests and net income attributable to noncontrolling nonvoting, callable, junior and senior preferred interests held by the Federal Reserve Bank of New York of
$74 million, $1.8 billion and $140 million in 2011, 2010 and 2009, respectively.   
       (b)      Excludes $2 million and $5 million attributable to redeemable noncontrolling interests for the year ended
December 31, 2011 and 2010, respectively.   
       (c)      See Notes 1 and 17 to Consolidated Financial Statements.      

See Accompanying Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements.     

  202            AIG 2011 Form 10-K  

Table of Contents    

American International Group, Inc.   Consolidated Statement of Cash Flows          

See Accompanying Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements.     

  AIG 2011 Form 10-K            203  

Table of Contents   

American International Group, Inc.   Consolidated Statement of Cash Flows     (Continued)   

See Accompanying Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements.     

204            AIG 2011 Form 10-K  

Table of Contents    

Index of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements          

AIG 2011 Form 10-K            205  

Table of Contents    

American International Group, Inc.   

   NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS     

1. BASIS OF PRESENTATION AND SIGNIFICANT EVENTS    

      American International Group, Inc. (AIG) is a leading international insurance organization serving customers in more than 130 countries.
AIG companies serve commercial, institutional and individual customers through one of the most extensive worldwide property-casualty networks of any insurer. In addition, AIG companies are leading
providers of life insurance and retirement services in the United States.   

      Since
September 2008, AIG has been working to protect and enhance the value of its key businesses, execute an orderly asset disposition plan, and position itself for the future. AIG has
entered into several important transactions and relationships with the Federal Reserve Bank of New York (FRBNY), the AIG Credit Facility Trust (together with its trustees, acting in their capacity as
trustees, the Trust) and the United States Department of the Treasury (the Department of the Treasury) during this period. As a result of the series of integrated transactions to recapitalize AIG, on
January 14, 2011, the Department of the Treasury became the holder of 92 percent of AIG's outstanding common stock, par value $2.50 per share (AIG Common Stock). In May 2011, AIG
completed a registered public offering of AIG Common Stock (the May Common Stock Offering), which resulted in a reduction of the Department of the Treasury's ownership to approximately
77 percent. See Significant Events below for further information.   

      The
consolidated financial statements include the accounts of AIG, its controlled subsidiaries (through a greater than 50 percent ownership of voting rights of a voting interest
entity), and variable interest entities (VIEs) in which AIG is the primary beneficiary. Entities that AIG does not consolidate, but in which it holds 20 percent to 50 percent of the
voting rights or otherwise has the ability to exercise significant influence, are accounted for under the equity method unless AIG has elected the fair value option. On October 29, 2010, AIG
completed an initial public offering (IPO) of 8.08 billion ordinary shares of AIA Group Limited (AIA), upon the completion of which AIG owned approximately 33 percent of AIA's
outstanding shares. AIG accounts for its investment in AIA under the fair value option with gains and losses recorded in Net investment income.   

      Certain
of AIG's foreign subsidiaries included in the consolidated financial statements report on different fiscal period bases, in most cases ending November 30. The effect on
AIG's consolidated financial condition and results of operations of all material events occurring at these subsidiaries between the fiscal year end and December 31 for all periods presented has
been recorded.   

      The
accompanying consolidated financial statements have been prepared in accordance with U.S. generally accepted accounting principles (GAAP). All material intercompany accounts and
transactions have been eliminated.   

USE OF ESTIMATES   

      The preparation of financial statements requires the application of accounting policies that often involve a significant degree of judgment. AIG
considers the accounting policies that are most dependent on the application of estimates and assumptions to be those relating to items considered by management in the determination
of:   

estimates with respect to income taxes, including the recoverability of the deferred tax assets and the predictability of
future tax planning strategies and operating profitability of the character necessary for their realization;     
           recoverability of assets, including deferred policy acquisition costs (DAC), flight equipment, and reinsurance;    
           insurance liabilities, including general insurance unpaid claims and claims adjustment expenses and future policy benefits
for life and accident and health contracts;     
           estimated gross profits for investment-oriented products;     
           impairment charges, including other-than-temporary impairments on financial instruments and
goodwill impairments;    

206            AIG 2011 Form 10-K  

Table of Contents   

   American International Group, Inc.  

   NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS    

liabilities for legal contingencies; and     
           fair value measurements of certain financial assets and liabilities, including credit default swaps (CDS) and AIG's
economic interest in Maiden Lane II LLC (ML II) and equity interest in Maiden Lane III LLC (ML III) (together, the Maiden Lane Interests).    

These
accounting estimates require the use of assumptions about matters, some of which are highly uncertain at the time of estimation. To the extent actual experience differs from the
assumptions used, AIG's consolidated financial condition, results of operations and cash flows could be materially affected.   

RECLASSIFICATIONS AND SEGMENT CHANGES   

Reclassifications            

      Due to changes in the relative composition of AIG's remaining continuing operations as a result of the substantial completion of AIG's asset
disposition plan, AIG began presenting separately the following line items on its Consolidated Statement of Operations beginning in 2011:   

Current line item:    
     
   Previously included in line item:    

Policy fees    (a)    
     
  Premiums and other considerations  

Aircraft leasing revenues and Aircraft leasing expenses, respectively  
     
  Other income and Other expenses, respectively  

Interest credited to policyholder account balances    (b)    
     
  Policyholder benefits and claims incurred  

Amortization of deferred acquisition costs  
     
  Policy acquisition and other insurance expenses  

(a)       Represents fees recognized from universal life and investment-type products, consisting of policy charges for the cost of insurance, policy
administration charges, amortization of unearned revenue reserves and surrender charges.   
       (b)      Represents interest on account-value-based policyholder deposits, consisting of amounts credited on non-equity-indexed
account values, accretion to the host contract for equity indexed products, and net amortization of sales inducements.    

Segment Changes and Prior Period Reclassifications            

      In order to align financial reporting with the manner in which AIG's chief operating decision makers review the businesses to allocate resources
and assess performance, changes were made during 2011 to AIG's segment information. See Note 3 herein for additional information on AIG's segment changes.   

Prior
period amounts were reclassified to conform to the current period presentation for the above items. Additionally, certain other reclassifications have been made to prior period
amounts in the Consolidated Statement of Operations, Consolidated Statement of Cash Flows and Consolidated Balance Sheet to conform to the current period presentation. See Note 4 herein for
reclassifications to prior period amounts attributable to discontinued operations.   

SIGNIFICANT EVENTS   

      During 2011, AIG completed the Recapitalization (described below), executed transactions in the debt and equity capital markets and substantially
completed its asset disposition plan.   

Recapitalization            

      On January 14, 2011 (the Closing), AIG completed a series of integrated transactions to recapitalize AIG (the Recapitalization) with the
Department of the Treasury, the FRBNY and the Trust, including the repayment of all amounts owed under the Credit Agreement, dated as of September 22, 2008 (as amended, the FRBNY Credit
Facility). At the Closing, AIG recognized a net loss on extinguishment of debt, primarily representing $3.3 billion   

  AIG 2011 Form 10-K            207  

Table of Contents   

   American International Group, Inc.  

   NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS    

in
accelerated amortization of the remaining prepaid commitment fee asset resulting from the termination of the FRBNY Credit Facility.   

Repayment and Termination of the FRBNY Credit Facility           

      At the Closing, AIG repaid to the FRBNY approximately $21 billion in cash, representing complete repayment of all amounts owed under the
FRBNY Credit Facility, and the FRBNY Credit Facility was terminated. The funds for the repayment came from the net cash proceeds from AIG's sale of 67 percent of the ordinary shares of AIA in
its initial public offering and from AIG's sale of American Life Insurance Company (ALICO) in 2010. These funds were loaned to AIG in the form of secured limited recourse debt from the special purpose
vehicles that held the proceeds of the AIA IPO and the ALICO sale (the AIA SPV and the ALICO SPV, respectively, and collectively, the SPVs). The loan from the ALICO SPV was repaid in full during 2011.
The loan from the AIA SPV is secured by pledges and any proceeds received from the sale by AIG and certain of its subsidiaries of, among other collateral, all or part of their equity interest in
International Lease Finance Corporation (ILFC or the Designated Entity). Proceeds from the sales of the remaining ordinary shares of AIA held by the AIA SPV will be used to pay down the liquidation
preference of the Department of the Treasury's preferred interests in the AIA SPV (the AIA SPV Preferred Interests) (described below). Until their respective sales on February 1, 2011 and
August 18, 2011 as further discussed in Sales of Divested Businesses below, AIG's Japan-based life insurance
subsidiaries, AIG Star Life Insurance Company Ltd. (AIG Star) and AIG Edison Life Insurance Company (AIG Edison), and Nan Shan Life Insurance Company, Ltd. (Nan Shan), were also
Designated Entities.   

Repurchase and Exchange of SPV Preferred Interests           

      At the Closing, AIG drew down approximately $20.3 billion (the Series F Closing Drawdown Amount) under the Department of the
Treasury's commitment (the Department of the Treasury Commitment (Series F)) pursuant to the Securities Purchase Agreement, dated as of April 17, 2009 (the Series F SPA), between
AIG and the Department of the Treasury relating to AIG's Series F Fixed Rate Non-Cumulative Perpetual Preferred Stock, par value $5.00 per share (the Series F Preferred
Stock). The Series F Closing Drawdown Amount was the full amount remaining under the Department of the Treasury Commitment (Series F), less $2 billion that AIG designated to be
available after the closing for general corporate purposes under a commitment relating to AIG's Series G Cumulative Mandatory Convertible Preferred Stock, par value $5.00 per share (the
Series G Preferred Stock), described below (the Series G Drawdown Right). The right of AIG to draw on the Department of the Treasury Commitment (Series F) (other than the
Series G Drawdown Right) was terminated.   

      AIG
used the Series F Closing Drawdown Amount to repurchase all of the FRBNY's AIA SPV Preferred Interests and the preferred interests in the ALICO SPV (together with the AIA SPV
Preferred Interests, the SPV Preferred Interests). AIG transferred the SPV Preferred Interests to the Department of the Treasury as part of the consideration for the exchange of the Series F
Preferred Stock (described below).   

      The
Department of the Treasury, so long as it holds AIA SPV Preferred Interests, has the right, subject to existing contractual restrictions, to require AIG to dispose of the remaining
AIA ordinary shares held by the AIA SPV to the extent necessary to fully repay the liquidation preference on the Department of the Treasury's AIA SPV Preferred Interests. In addition, the consent of
the Department of the Treasury, so long as it holds SPV Preferred Interests, will be required for AIG to take specified significant actions with respect to the Designated Entity, ILFC, including an
IPO, sales, significant acquisitions or dispositions and incurrence of specified levels of indebtedness. If any SPV Preferred Interests are outstanding on May 1, 2013, the Department of the
Treasury will have the right to compel the sale of all or a portion of ILFC on terms that it will determine.   

      As
a result of these transactions, the AIA SPV Preferred Interests are no longer considered permanent equity on AIG's Consolidated Balance Sheet, and are classified as Redeemable
noncontrolling nonvoting, callable, junior preferred interests held by the Department of the Treasury.   

  208            AIG 2011 Form 10-K  

Table of Contents   

   American International Group, Inc.  

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS    

Issuance and Cancellation of AIG's Series G Preferred Stock           

      At the Closing, AIG and the Department of the Treasury amended and restated the Series F SPA to provide for the issuance of 20,000 shares
of Series G Preferred Stock by AIG to the Department of the Treasury. The Series G Preferred Stock was issued with a liquidation preference of zero. Because the net proceeds to AIG from
the completion of the registered public offering of AIG Common Stock in the May Common Stock Offering of $2.9 billion exceeded the $2.0 billion Series G Drawdown Right, the
Series G Drawdown Right was terminated and the Series G Preferred Stock was cancelled immediately thereafter.   

Exchange of AIG's Series C, E and F Preferred Stock for AIG Common Stock and Series G Preferred Stock           

At the Closing:   

the shares of AIG's Series C Perpetual, Convertible, Participating Preferred Stock, par value $5.00 per share (the
Series C Preferred Stock), held by the Trust, were exchanged for 562,868,096 shares of newly issued AIG Common Stock, which were subsequently transferred by the Trust to the Department of the
Treasury;     
           the shares of AIG's Series E Fixed Rate Non-Cumulative Perpetual Preferred Stock, par value $5.00 per
share (the Series E Preferred Stock), held by the Department of the Treasury, were exchanged for 924,546,133 newly issued shares of AIG Common Stock; and     
           the shares of the Series F Preferred Stock held by the Department of the Treasury, were exchanged for
(a) the SPV Preferred Interests, (b) 20,000 shares of the Series G Preferred Stock (subsequently cancelled) and (c) 167,623,733 shares of newly issued AIG Common Stock.    

The
issuance of AIG Common Stock to the Department of the Treasury described above significantly affected the determination of Net income (loss) attributable to AIG common shareholders
and the weighted average shares outstanding, both of which are used to compute earnings per share. See Note 17 herein for further discussion.   

AIG
entered into a registration rights agreement (the Registration Rights Agreement) with the Department of the Treasury that granted the Department of the Treasury registration rights
with respect to the shares of AIG Common Stock issued at the Closing. The May Common Stock Offering was conducted in accordance with the right of AIG under the Registration Rights Agreement to
complete a registered primary offering of AIG Common Stock. Current rights of the Department of the Treasury under the Registration Rights Agreement include:   

the right to participate in any future registered offering of AIG Common Stock by AIG;     
           the right to demand that AIG effect a registered market offering of its shares no more than twice in any
12-month period;     
           the right to engage in at-the-market offerings; and     
           subject to certain exceptions, the right to approve the terms, conditions and pricing of any registered offering in which
it participates until its ownership falls below 33 percent of AIG's voting securities.    

AIG
has the right to raise the greater of $2 billion and the amount of the projected liquidity shortfall if the AIG Board of Directors determines, after consultation with the
Department of the Treasury, that due to events affecting AIG's insurance subsidiaries, AIG Parent's reasonably projected aggregate liquidity (cash and cash equivalents and commitments of credit) will
fall below $8 billion within 12 months of the date of such determination.   

      Until
the Department of the Treasury's ownership of AIG's voting securities falls below 33 percent, the Department of the Treasury will, subject to certain exceptions, have
complete control over the terms, conditions   

  AIG 2011 Form 10-K            209  

Table of Contents   

   American International Group, Inc.  

   NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS    

and
pricing of any offering in which it participates, including any primary offering by AIG. As a result, if AIG seeks to conduct an offering of its equity securities the Department of the Treasury
may decide to participate in the offering, and to prevent AIG from selling any equity securities.   

Issuance of Warrants to Purchase AIG Common Stock           

      On January 19, 2011, as part of the Recapitalization, AIG issued to the holders of record of AIG Common Stock as of January 13,
2011, by means of a dividend, ten-year warrants to purchase a total of 74,997,778 shares of AIG Common Stock at an exercise price of $45.00 per share. AIG retained 67,650 of these warrants
for tax withholding purposes. No warrants were issued to the Trust, the Department of the Treasury or the FRBNY.   

May 2011 Common Stock Offering and Sale            

      On May 27, 2011, AIG and the Department of the Treasury, as the selling shareholder, completed a registered public offering of AIG Common
Stock. AIG issued and sold 100 million shares of AIG Common Stock for aggregate net proceeds of approximately $2.9 billion and the Department of the Treasury sold 200 million
shares of AIG Common Stock. AIG did not receive any of the proceeds from the sale of the shares of AIG Common Stock by the Department of the Treasury. Of the net proceeds AIG received from this
offering, $550 million has been used to fund the Consolidated 2004 Securities Litigation settlement (see Note 16 herein). As required by the Registration Rights Agreement, AIG paid the
underwriting discount as well as certain expenses with respect to the shares sold by the Department of the Treasury. The balance of the net proceeds was used for general corporate purposes. As a
result of the sale of AIG Common Stock in this offering, the Series G Drawdown Right was terminated, the Series G Preferred Stock was cancelled and the ownership by the Department of the
Treasury was reduced from approximately 92 percent to approximately 77 percent of the AIG Common Stock outstanding after the completion of the offering.   

September 2011 Debt Offering            

      On September 13, 2011, AIG issued $1.2 billion of 4.250% Notes Due 2014 and $800 million of 4.875% Notes Due 2016. The
proceeds are being used to pay maturing notes issued by AIG to fund the Matched Investment Program (MIP).   

October 2011 Syndicated Credit and Contingent Liquidity Facilities            

      On October 12, 2011, the previously outstanding AIG 364-Day Syndicated Facility, AIG 3-Year Syndicated Facility and
Chartis letter of credit facility were terminated and AIG entered into a $1.5 billion 364-Day Syndicated Facility and a $3.0 billion 4-Year Syndicated Facility.
The new 4-Year Syndicated Facility provides for $3.0 billion of revolving loans, which includes a $1.5 billion letter of credit sublimit. The $1.3 billion of
previously issued letters of credit under the Chartis letter of credit facility were rolled into the letter of credit sublimit within the 4-Year Syndicated Facility, so that a total of
$1.7 billion remains available under this facility, of which $0.2 billion is available for letters of credit. AIG expects that it may draw down on these facilities from time to time, and
may use the proceeds for general corporate purposes.   

      In
December 2010, AIG established a $500 million contingent liquidity facility. Under this facility, AIG has the right, prior to December 15, 2015, to issue up to
$500 million in senior debt to the counterparty, based on a put option agreement between AIG and the counterparty. The senior debt, if issued, will mature on December 15, 2015.   

      In
October 2011, AIG entered into an additional contingent liquidity facility. Under this facility, AIG has the right, for a period of one year, to enter into put option agreements, with
an aggregate notional amount of up to $500 million, with an unaffiliated international financial institution pursuant to which AIG has the right, for a   

  210            AIG 2011 Form 10-K  

Table of Contents   

   American International Group, Inc.  

   NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS    

period
of five years from the date any such put option agreement is entered into, to issue up to $500 million in senior debt to the financial institution, at AIG's discretion.   

November 2011 Exchange Offer            

      In November 2011, AIG exchanged specified series of its outstanding Junior Subordinated Debentures for newly issued senior notes pursuant to an
exchange offer. The exchange resulted in a gain on extinguishment of debt of approximately $484 million, which is reflected in Net loss on extinguishment of debt in the Consolidated Statement
of Operations and a deferred gain of $65 million, included in Other long-term debt in the Consolidated Balance Sheet, which will be amortized as a reduction to future interest
expense. See Note 15 herein for additional information on this transaction.   

Sales of Businesses            

      On January 12, 2011, AIG entered into an agreement to sell its 97.57 percent interest in Nan Shan to a Taiwan-based consortium. The
transaction closed on August 18, 2011 for net proceeds of $2.15 billion in cash. The net proceeds from the transaction were used to pay down a portion of the liquidation preference of
the Department of the Treasury's AIA SPV Preferred Interests.   

      On
February 1, 2011, AIG completed the sale of AIG Star and AIG Edison to Prudential Financial, Inc., for $4.8 billion, consisting of $4.2 billion in cash and
$0.6 billion in the assumption of third-party debt. Of the $4.2 billion in cash, AIG retained $2 billion to support the capital of Chartis, Inc. (Chartis) and its
subsidiaries pursuant to an agreement with the Department of the Treasury, and caused the remaining amount to be applied to pay down a portion of liquidation preference of the Department of the
Treasury's AIA SPV Preferred Interests. AIG recognized a pre-tax gain of $2.0 billion on the date of the sale which is reflected in Income (loss) from discontinued operations in the
Consolidated Statement of Operations.   

      See
Note 4 herein for additional information on these transactions and Note 16 for discussion of indemnification provisions.   

Sale of MetLife Securities            

      On March 1, 2011, AIG entered into a Coordination Agreement among the ALICO SPV, AIG and MetLife, Inc. (MetLife) regarding a series
of integrated transactions (the MetLife Disposition) whereby MetLife agreed to allow AIG to offer for sale earlier than contemplated under the original terms of the ALICO sale (the ALICO Sale) the
MetLife securities that AIG received when it sold ALICO to MetLife. The MetLife Disposition included (i) the sale of MetLife common stock, par value $0.01 per share, and the sale of common
equity units of MetLife pursuant to two separate underwritten public offerings and (ii) the sale by the ALICO SPV of MetLife preferred stock to MetLife.   

      In
connection with the MetLife Disposition, on March 1, 2011, AIG and the ALICO SPV entered into a letter agreement with the Department of the Treasury pursuant to which AIG and
the ALICO SPV received the consent of the Department of the Treasury to the MetLife Disposition. AIG completed the MetLife Disposition on March 8, 2011 for a total of $9.6 billion and
used $6.6 billion of the proceeds to pay down all of the liquidation preference of the Department of the Treasury's ALICO SPV Preferred Interests and a portion of the liquidation preference of
the Department of the Treasury's AIA SPV Preferred Interests. In the first quarter of 2011, AIG recognized a loss of $348 million, representing the decline in the value of the MetLife
securities from December 31, 2010 through their disposition on March 8, 2011, due to market conditions prior to the MetLife Disposition. Of this amount, $191 million is reflected
in Net realized capital gains (losses) and $157 million is reflected in Net investment income in the Consolidated Statement of Operations. The remaining proceeds were placed in escrow
to secure indemnities provided to MetLife under the original terms of the ALICO stock purchase agreement as described in Note 16 herein.   

  AIG 2011 Form 10-K            211  

Table of Contents   

   American International Group, Inc.  

   NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS    

LIQUIDITY ASSESSMENT   

      In assessing AIG's current financial flexibility and developing operating plans for the future, management has made significant judgments and
estimates with respect to the potential financial and liquidity effects of AIG's risks and uncertainties, including but not limited to:   

the potential effect of changes in bond, equity and foreign exchange markets on contingent liquidity requirements;    
           the potential effect on AIG if the capital levels of its regulated and unregulated subsidiaries prove inadequate to
support current business plans;     
           AIG's continued ability to generate cash flow from operations;     
           the potential adverse effects on AIG's businesses that could result if there are further downgrades by rating agencies;
and     
           the potential for regulatory limitations on AIG's business in one or more countries.    

AIG
believes that it has sufficient liquidity to satisfy future liquidity requirements and meet its obligations, including requirements arising out of reasonably foreseeable
contingencies and events.   

SUPPLEMENTARY DISCLOSURE OF CONSOLIDATED CASH FLOW INFORMATION   

*       2011 includes payment of FRBNY credit facility accrued compounded interest of $4.7 billion, before the facility was terminated on January 14,
2011 in connection with the Recapitalization.           

2. SUMMARY OF SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES    

(a) Revenue recognition and expenses:            

        Premiums:       Premiums for short duration contracts are recorded as written on the inception date of the policy. Premiums are earned primarily on a pro
rata basis over the term of the related coverage. The reserve for unearned premiums includes the portion of premiums written relating to the unexpired terms of coverage. Reinsurance premiums under a
reinsurance contract are typically earned over the same period as the underlying policies, or risks, covered by the contracts. As a result, the earning pattern of a reinsurance contract may extend up
to 24 months, reflecting the inception dates of the underlying policies.   

  212            AIG 2011 Form 10-K  

Table of Contents   

   American International Group, Inc.  

   NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS    

      Reinsurance
premiums ceded are expensed over the period the reinsurance coverage is provided in proportion to the risks to which they relate.   

Premiums
for long duration insurance products and life contingent annuities are recognized as revenues when due. Estimates for premiums due but not yet collected are accrued.   

        Policy fees:       Policy fees represent fees recognized from universal life and investment-type products consisting of policy charges for the
cost of insurance, policy administration charges, amortization of unearned revenue reserves and surrender charges.   

Net investment income:       Net investment income represents income primarily from the following sources in AIG's insurance operations and AIG
Parent:   

Interest income and related expenses, including amortization of premiums and accretion of discounts on bonds with changes
in the timing and the amount of expected principal and interest cash flows reflected in the yield, as applicable.     
           Dividend income from common and preferred stock and distributions from other investments.     
           Realized and unrealized gains and losses from investments in trading securities accounted for at fair value.    
           Earnings from private equity funds and hedge fund investments accounted for under the equity method.    
           The difference between the carrying amount of a life settlement contract and the life insurance proceeds of the underlying
life insurance policy recorded in income upon the death of the insured.     
           Changes in the fair values of AIG's interests in ML II, ML III, AIA and MetLife securities prior to sale.    

Net realized capital gains (losses):       Net realized capital gains and losses are determined by specific identification. The net realized capital gains
and losses are generated primarily from the following sources:   

Sales of fixed maturity securities and equity securities (except trading securities accounted for at fair value), real
estate, investments in private equity funds and hedge funds and other types of investments.     
           Reductions to the cost basis of fixed maturity securities and equity securities (except trading securities accounted for
at fair value) and other invested assets for other-than-temporary impairments.     
           Changes in fair value of derivatives except for (1) those instruments at AIG Financial Products Corp. and AIG
Trading Group Inc. and their respective subsidiaries (collectively, AIGFP), (2) those instruments that qualify for hedge accounting treatment when the change in the fair value of the
hedged item is not reported in Net realized capital gains (losses), and (3) those instruments that are designated as economic hedges of financial instruments for which the fair value option has
been elected.     
           Exchange gains and losses resulting from foreign currency transactions.    

Aircraft leasing revenue:       Income from flight equipment under operating leases is recognized over the life of the lease as rentals become receivable
under the provisions of the lease or, in the case of leases with varying payments, under the straight-line method over the noncancelable term of the lease. In certain cases, leases provide
for additional payments contingent on usage. In those cases, rental income is recognized at the time such usage occurs, net of estimated future contractual aircraft maintenance reimbursements. Gains
on sales of flight equipment are recognized in Other income when flight equipment is sold and the risk of ownership of the equipment is passed to the new owner.   

        Other income:       Other income includes unrealized gains and losses on derivatives, including unrealized market valuation gains and losses associated
with AIGFP's super senior credit default swap (CDS) portfolio, as well as income from the Direct Investment book.   

  AIG 2011 Form 10-K            213  

Table of Contents   

American International Group, Inc.  

   NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS    

      Other
income from the operations of the Direct Investment book and AIG's Other Operations category consists of the following:   

Change in fair value relating to financial assets and liabilities for which the fair value option has been elected.    
           Interest income and related expenses, including amortization of premiums and accretion of discounts on bonds with changes
in the timing and the amount of expected principal and interest cash flows reflected in the yield, as applicable.     
           Dividend income from common and preferred stock and distributions from other investments.     
           Changes in the fair value of trading securities and spot commodities sold but not yet purchased, futures, hybrid financial
instruments, securities purchased under agreements to resell, and securities sold under agreements to repurchase for which the fair value option was elected.     
           Realized capital gains and losses from the sales of available for sale securities and investments in private equity funds
and hedge funds and other investments.     
           Income earned on real estate based investments and related losses from property level impairments and financing costs.    
           Exchange gains and losses resulting from foreign currency transactions.     
           Reductions to the cost basis of securities available for sale for other-than-temporary
impairments.     
           Earnings from private equity funds and hedge fund investments accounted for under the equity method.    
           Gains and losses recognized in earnings on derivatives for the effective portion and their related hedged items.    

Policyholder benefits and claims incurred:       Incurred claims and claims adjustment expenses for short duration insurance contracts consist of the
estimated ultimate cost of settling claims incurred within the reporting period, including incurred but not reported claims, plus the changes in estimates of current and prior period losses resulting
from the continuous review process, which are charged to income as incurred. Benefits for long duration insurance contracts consist of benefits paid and changes in future policy benefits liabilities.
Benefits for universal life and investment-type products primarily consist of interest credited to policy account balances and benefit payments made in excess of policy account balances
except for certain contracts for which the fair value option was elected, for which benefits represent the entire change in fair value (including derivative gains and losses on related economic
hedges).   

        Interest credited to policyholder account balances:       Represents interest on account-value-based policyholder deposits consisting of amounts credited
on non-equity-indexed account values, accretion to the host contract for equity indexed products, and net amortization of sales inducements.   

        Amortization of deferred policy acquisition costs:       Amortization of deferred policy acquisition costs represents amortization of short-duration and
long-duration deferred policy acquisition costs:   

Short-duration policies:     Policy acquisition costs are deferred and amortized
over the period in which the related premiums written are earned, generally 12 months.     
            Long-duration policies:     Policy acquisition costs for participating
life, traditional life and accident and health insurance products are generally deferred and amortized, with interest, over the premium paying period. Policy acquisition costs and policy issuance
costs related to universal life, and investment-type products (investment-oriented products) are deferred and amortized, with interest, in relation to the incidence of estimated gross
profits to be realized over the estimated lives of the contracts.    

214            AIG 2011 Form 10-K  

Table of Contents   

   American International Group, Inc.  

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS    

       Aircraft leasing expenses:       Aircraft leasing expenses consist of depreciation expense, impairment charges, fair value adjustments and lease-related
charges on aircraft as well as selling, general and administrative expenses and other expenses incurred by ILFC.   

        Net (gain) loss on sale of properties and divested businesses:       Includes gains or losses from the sales of businesses that do not qualify as
discontinued operations and sales of previously occupied properties.   

        (b) Held-for-sale and discontinued operations:       AIG reports a business
as held for sale when management has approved or received approval to sell the business and is committed to a formal plan, the business is available for immediate sale, the business is being actively
marketed, the sale is anticipated to occur during the ensuing year and certain other specified criteria are met. A business classified as held for sale is recorded at the lower of its carrying amount
or estimated fair value less cost to sell. If the carrying amount of the business exceeds its estimated fair value, a loss is recognized. Depreciation is not recorded on assets of a business
classified as held for sale. Assets and liabilities related to a business classified as held for sale are segregated in the Consolidated Balance Sheet and major classes are separately disclosed in the
notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements commencing in the period in which the business is classified as held for sale.   

AIG
reports the results of operations of a business as discontinued operations if the business is classified as held for sale, the operations and cash flows of the business have been or
will be eliminated from the ongoing operations of AIG as a result of a disposal transaction and AIG will not have any significant continuing
involvement in the operations of the business after the disposal transaction. The results of discontinued operations are reported in Discontinued Operations in the Consolidated Statement of Operations
for current and prior periods commencing in the period in which the business meets the criteria of a discontinued operation, and include any gain or loss recognized on closing or adjustment of the
carrying amount to fair value less cost to sell.   

(c) Investments:            

        Fixed maturity and equity securities:       Bonds held to maturity are carried at amortized cost when AIG has the ability and positive intent to hold these
securities until maturity. When AIG does not have the positive intent to hold bonds until maturity, these securities are classified as available for sale or as trading and are carried at fair value.
None of AIG's fixed maturity securities met the criteria for held to maturity classification at December 31, 2011 or 2010.   

Fixed
maturity and equity securities classified as available for sale or as trading are carried at fair value. Unrealized gains and losses from available for sale investments in fixed
maturity and equity securities are reported as a separate component of Accumulated other comprehensive income (loss), net of deferred acquisition costs and deferred income taxes, in Total AIG
shareholders' equity. Realized and unrealized gains and losses from fixed maturity and equity securities classified as trading are reflected in Net investment income (for insurance subsidiaries) or
Other income (for Direct Investment book). Investments in fixed maturities and equity securities are recorded on a trade-date basis.   

      Premiums
and discounts arising from the purchase of bonds classified as available for sale are treated as yield adjustments over their estimated holding periods, until maturity, or call
date, if applicable. For investments in certain residential mortgage-backed securities (RMBS), certain commercial mortgage-backed securities (CMBS) and certain collateralized debt obligations/asset
backed securities (CDO/ABS), (collectively, structured securities), recognized yields are updated based on current information regarding the timing and amount of expected undiscounted future cash
flows. For high credit-quality structured securities, effective yields are recalculated based on actual payments received and updated prepayment expectations, and the amortized cost is adjusted to the
amount that would have existed had the new effective yield been applied since acquisition with a corresponding charge or credit to net investment income. For structured securities that are not high
credit-quality, effective yields are recalculated and adjusted prospectively based on changes in expected undiscounted future cash flows. For purchased credit impaired (PCI) securities, at
acquisition, the difference between the undiscounted expected   

  AIG 2011 Form 10-K            215  

Table of Contents   

   American International Group, Inc.  

   NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS    

future
cash flows and the recorded investment in the securities represents the initial accretable yield, which is to be accreted into net investment income over the securities' remaining lives on a
level-yield basis. Subsequently, effective yields recognized on PCI securities are recalculated and adjusted prospectively to reflect changes in the
contractual benchmark interest rates on variable rate securities and any significant increases in undiscounted expected future cash flows arising due to reasons other than interest rate changes.   

Trading
securities include the investment portfolio of the Direct Investment book and the Maiden Lane Interests. Trading securities for the Direct Investment book are held to meet
short-term investment objectives and to economically hedge other securities.   

      For
discussion of AIG's other-than-temporary impairment policy, see Note 7 herein.   

        Mortgage and other loans receivable   net:       Mortgage and other loans receivable include commercial mortgages, life insurance policy
loans, commercial loans, other loans and notes receivable. Commercial mortgages, commercial loans, and other loans and notes receivable are carried at unpaid principal balances less credit allowances
and plus or minus adjustments for the accretion or amortization of discount or premium. Interest income on such loans is accrued as earned.   

      Direct
costs of originating commercial mortgages, commercial loans, and other loans and notes receivable, net of nonrefundable points and fees, are deferred and included in the carrying
amount of the related receivables. The amount deferred is amortized to income as an adjustment to earnings using the interest method.   

      Mortgage
and other loans receivable are considered impaired when collection of all amounts due under contractual terms is not probable. Interest income on such impaired loans is
recognized as cash is received. For a discussion of the allowance for credit losses on mortgages and other loans receivable, see Note 8 herein.   

Mortgage
and other loans receivable also include life insurance policy loans, which are carried at unpaid principal amount. There is no allowance for policy loans because these loans
serve to reduce the death benefit paid when the death claim is made and the balances are effectively collateralized by the cash surrender value of the policy.   

        Flight equipment primarily under operating leases   net:       Flight equipment is stated at cost (adjusted for any impairment charges),
net of accumulated depreciation. Major additions, modifications and interest on deposits during the construction phase are capitalized. Normal maintenance and repairs, airframe and engine overhauls
and compliance with return conditions of flight equipment on lease are generally provided by and paid for by the lessee. Under the provisions of most leases for certain airframe and engine overhauls,
the lessee is reimbursed for certain costs incurred up to but not exceeding contingent rentals paid to ILFC by the lessee. ILFC recognizes overhaul rentals received as revenue, net of estimated
overhaul reimbursements. Any lessor maintenance contribution made by ILFC in conjunction with a lease of a used aircraft and in excess of overhaul rentals received from the lessee, is capitalized as
lease incentives and amortized into lease revenue over the life of the lease. Maintenance performed by ILFC in the event of a repossession of an aircraft is capitalized to the extent the costs meet
the recognition criteria for an asset. Depreciation of aircraft is generally computed on a
straight-line basis over a useful life of 25 years to a residual value of approximately 15 percent of the cost of the asset.   

      Aircraft
in the fleet are evaluated for impairment annually during the third quarter and whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate the carrying amount of an asset may not be
recoverable. Recoverability of assets is measured by comparing the carrying amount of an asset to future undiscounted net cash flows expected to be generated by the asset. These evaluations for
impairment are significantly affected by estimates of future net cash flows and other factors that involve uncertainty. There are a number of factors and circumstances that can influence (and
increase) the potential for recognizing an impairment loss. A firm commitment to sell aircraft may result in aircraft being reclassified from held for use to held for sale for financial reporting
purposes and would require an impairment assessment based on the aircraft's fair value. An increase in the likelihood of a sale transaction being completed could result in a similar impairment
assessment if the probability of an aircraft sale   

  216            AIG 2011 Form 10-K  

Table of Contents   

   American International Group, Inc.  

   NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS    

becomes
high enough to reduce the probability weighted expected undiscounted future cash flows to be realized from the aircraft to an amount that is less than its carrying value. In addition, changes
in portfolio strategies, changes in demand for a particular aircraft type and changes in economic and market circumstances, including risk factors affecting the airline industry, can affect the
impairment assessment.   

      When
assets are retired or disposed of, the cost and associated accumulated depreciation are removed from the related accounts and the difference, net of proceeds, is recorded as a gain
in Other income.   

        Other invested assets:       Other invested assets consist primarily of investments by AIG's insurance operations in hedge funds, private equity funds,
other investment partnerships and direct private equity investments. AIG's investments in life settlement contracts and its 33 percent interest in AIA are also included in Other invested
assets.   

      Hedge
funds, private equity funds and other investment partnerships in which AIG's insurance operations hold in the aggregate less than a five percent interest are reported at fair
value. The change in fair value is recognized as a component of Accumulated other comprehensive income (loss). With respect to hedge funds, private equity funds and other investment partnerships in
which AIG holds in the aggregate a five percent or greater interest or less than a five percent interest but in which AIG has more than a minor influence over the operations of the investee, AIG's
carrying value is its share of the net asset value of the funds or the partnerships. The changes in such net asset values, accounted for under the equity method, are recorded in Net investment income.
Direct private equity investments entered into for strategic purposes and not solely for capital appreciation or for income generation are also accounted for under the equity method.   

In
applying the equity method of accounting, AIG consistently uses the most recently available financial information provided by the general partner or manager of each of these
investments, which is one to three months prior to the end of AIG's reporting period. The financial statements of these investees are generally audited annually.   

      Life
settlement contracts are accounted for under the investment method. Under the investment method, AIG recognizes its initial investment in life settlement contracts at the
transaction price plus all initial direct external costs. Continuing costs to keep the policy in force, primarily life insurance premiums, increase the carrying value of the investment. AIG recognizes
income on individual life settlement contracts when the insured dies, at an amount equal to the excess of the contract proceeds over the carrying amount of the contract at that time. Contracts are
reviewed for indications that the expected future proceeds from the contract would not be sufficient to recover AIG's estimated future carrying amount of the contract, which is the current carrying
amount for the contract plus anticipated undiscounted future premiums and other capitalizable future costs. Any such contracts identified are written down to their estimated fair value.   

      AIG
accounts for its investment in AIA under the fair value option with gains and losses recorded in Net investment income. See Note 7 herein for further information.   

      Also
included in Other invested assets are real estate held for investment and aircraft asset investments held by non-Aircraft Leasing subsidiaries. See Note 7 herein
for further information.   

       Short-term investments:       Short-term investments consist of interest-bearing cash equivalents, time deposits, securities
purchased under agreements to resell, and investments, such as commercial paper, with original maturities within one year from the date of purchase.   

      Securities
purchased under agreements to resell (reverse repurchase agreements) generally are accounted for as collateralized lending transactions. These agreements are recorded at their
contracted resale amounts plus accrued interest, other than those that are accounted for at fair value. Such agreements entered into by AIGFP are carried at fair value based on market observable
interest rates. AIG's policy is to take possession of or obtain a security interest in securities purchased under agreements to resell. The value of reverse repurchase agreements that were accounted
for as collateralized lending transactions was $7.0 billion at December 31, 2011. The fair value of securities collateral received by AIG was $6.8 billion at December 31,
2011, of which $122 million was repledged by AIG.   

  AIG 2011 Form 10-K            217  

Table of Contents    

   American International Group, Inc.   

   NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS     

      AIG minimizes the risk that counterparties to transactions might be unable to fulfill their contractual obligations by monitoring customer credit exposure and
collateral value and generally requiring additional collateral to be deposited with AIG when necessary.   

        (d) Cash:       Cash represents cash on hand and non-interest bearing demand deposits.   

(e) Premiums and other receivables   net:       Premiums and other receivables includes premium balances receivable, amounts due from
agents and brokers and insureds, trade receivables for Direct Investment
book and Global Capital Markets and other receivables. Trade receivables for Global Capital Markets include cash collateral posted to derivative counterparties that are not eligible to be netted
against derivative liabilities. The allowance for doubtful accounts on premiums and other receivables was $484 million and $515 million at December 31, 2011 and 2010,
respectively.   

        (f) Reinsurance assets   net:       In the ordinary course of business, AIG uses both treaty and facultative reinsurance to minimize its
net loss exposure to any single catastrophic loss event or to an accumulation of losses from a number of smaller events. AIG determines the portion of the incurred but not reported (IBNR) loss that
will be recoverable under its reinsurance contracts by reference to the terms of the reinsurance protection purchased. This determination is necessarily based on the estimate of IBNR and accordingly,
is subject to the same uncertainties as the estimate of IBNR. Reinsurance assets include the balances due from reinsurance and insurance companies under the terms of AIG's reinsurance agreements for
paid and unpaid losses and loss expenses, ceded unearned premiums and ceded future policy benefits for life and accident and health insurance contracts and benefits paid and unpaid. Amounts related to
paid and unpaid losses and benefits and loss expenses with respect to these reinsurance agreements are substantially collateralized. AIG remains liable to the extent that its reinsurers do not meet
their obligation under the reinsurance contracts, and as such, AIG regularly evaluates the financial condition of its reinsurers and monitors concentration of credit risk. The allowance for doubtful
accounts on reinsurance assets was $365 million and $492 million at December 31, 2011 and 2010, respectively.   

        (g) Deferred policy acquisition costs:       Policy acquisition costs represent those costs, including commissions, premium taxes and other underwriting
expenses that vary with and are primarily related to the acquisition of new business.   

        Short-duration insurance contracts:       Policy acquisition costs are deferred and amortized over the period in which the related premiums written are
earned. DAC is grouped consistent with the manner in which the insurance contracts are acquired, serviced and measured for profitability and is reviewed for recoverability based on the profitability
of the underlying insurance contracts. Investment income is not anticipated in assessing the recoverability of DAC. AIG assesses the recoverability of its DAC on an annual basis or more frequently if
circumstances indicate an impairment may have occurred. This assessment is performed by comparing recorded unearned premiums to the sum of expected claims, claims adjustment expenses, unamortized DAC
and maintenance costs. If the sum of these costs exceeds the amount of recorded unearned premiums, the excess is recognized as an offset against the asset established for DAC. This offset is referred
to as a premium deficiency charge. Increases in expected claims and claims adjustment expenses can have a significant impact on the likelihood and amount of a premium deficiency charge.   

        Long-duration insurance contracts:       Policy acquisition costs for participating life, traditional life and accident and health insurance
products are generally deferred and amortized, with interest, over the premium paying period. Policy acquisition costs and policy issuance costs related to universal life, and
investment-type products (investment-oriented products) are deferred and amortized, with interest, in relation to the incidence of estimated gross profits to be realized over the estimated
lives of the contracts.
Estimated gross profits are composed of net interest income, net realized investment gains and losses, fees, surrender charges, expenses, and mortality and morbidity gains and losses.   

  218            AIG 2011 Form 10-K  

Table of Contents   

   American International Group, Inc.  

   NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS    

      AIG
uses a "reversion to the mean" methodology, which allows AIG to maintain its long-term assumptions, while also giving consideration to the effect of deviations from these
assumptions occurring in the current period. A DAC unlocking is performed when management determines that key assumptions (e.g. market return, surrender rates, etc.) should be modified. The DAC
asset is recalculated using the new assumptions. The use of a reversion to the mean assumption is common within the industry; however, the parameters used in the methodology are subject to judgment
and vary within the industry. If estimated gross profits change significantly, DAC is recalculated using the new assumptions. Any resulting adjustment is included in income as an adjustment to DAC.
DAC is grouped consistent with the manner in which the insurance contracts are acquired, serviced and measured for profitability and is reviewed for recoverability based on the current and projected
future profitability of the underlying insurance contracts.   

      The
DAC for investment-oriented products is also adjusted for changes in estimated gross profits that result from changes in the net unrealized gains or losses on fixed maturity and
equity securities available for sale. Because fixed maturity and equity securities available for sale are carried at aggregate fair value, an adjustment is made to DAC equal to the change in DAC
amortization that would have been recorded if such securities had been sold at their stated aggregate fair value and the proceeds reinvested at current yields. For long-duration
traditional business, if such reinvestment would not be sufficient to recover DAC and meet policyholder obligations an adjustment to DAC and additional future policy benefits for those products is
recorded using current best estimates that incorporate a review of assumptions regarding mortality, morbidity, persistency, maintenance expenses and investment returns. The change in these
adjustments, net of tax, is included with the change in net unrealized appreciation (depreciation) of investments that is credited or charged directly to Accumulated other comprehensive income (loss).   

      Value
of Business Acquired (VOBA) is determined at the time of acquisition and is reported in the Consolidated Balance Sheet with DAC. This value is based on the present value of future
pre-tax profits discounted at yields applicable at the time of purchase. For participating life, traditional life and accident and health insurance products, VOBA is amortized over the
life of the business similar to that for DAC based on the assumptions at purchase. For universal life, and investment-oriented products, VOBA is amortized in relation to the estimated gross profits to
date for each period.   

      For
contracts accounted for at fair value, policy acquisition costs are expensed as incurred and not deferred or amortized.   

      See
(v) Recent Accounting Standards   Future Application of Accounting Standards herein for changes related to deferred acquisition costs in 2012 due to the
adoption of a new accounting standard that addresses the accounting for costs associated with acquiring or renewing insurance contracts.   

        (h) Derivative assets and derivative liabilities, at fair value:       Interest rate, currency,
equity and commodity swaps, credit contracts (including AIGFP's super senior credit default swap portfolio), swaptions, options and forward transactions are accounted for as derivatives recorded on a
trade-date basis, and carried at fair value. Unrealized gains and losses are reflected in income, when appropriate. In certain instances, a contract's transaction price is the best
indication of initial fair value. Aggregate asset or liability positions are netted on the Consolidated Balance Sheet only to the extent permitted by qualifying master netting arrangements in place
with each respective counterparty. Cash collateral posted by AIG with counterparties in conjunction with transactions supported by qualifying master netting arrangements is reported as a reduction of
the corresponding net derivative liability, while cash collateral received by AIG in conjunction with transactions supported by qualifying master netting arrangements is reported as a reduction of the
corresponding net derivative asset.   

        (i) Other assets:       Other assets consists of, prepaid expenses, including deferred advertising
costs, sales inducement assets, deposits, other deferred charges, real estate, other fixed assets, capitalized software costs, goodwill, intangible assets other than goodwill, restricted cash,
including net cash proceeds from the AIA initial   

  AIG 2011 Form 10-K            219  

Table of Contents   

   American International Group, Inc.  

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS    

public
offering in 2010 and, at December 31, 2010, net cash proceeds from the ALICO sale held in escrow pending the Closing and a prepaid commitment fee asset related to the FRBNY Credit
Agreement. The prepaid commitment fee asset related to the FRBNY Credit Agreement was amortized as interest expense ratably over the five-year term of the agreement, accelerated for actual
pay-downs that reduce the total credit available. The remaining unamortized prepaid commitment fee asset of $3.6 billion at December 31, 2010 was derecognized by AIG through
earnings upon the closing of the Recapitalization on January 14, 2011.   

      Certain
direct response advertising costs are deferred and amortized over the expected future benefit period. When AIG can demonstrate that its customers have responded specifically to
direct-response advertising, the primary purpose of which is to elicit sales to customers, and when it can be shown such advertising results in probable future economic benefits, the advertising costs
are capitalized. Deferred advertising costs are amortized on a cost-pool-by-cost-pool basis over the expected future economic benefit period and are
reviewed regularly for recoverability. Deferred advertising costs totaled $78 million and $200 million at December 31, 2011 and 2010, respectively. The amount of expense amortized
into income was $34 million, $40 million and $173 million, for the years ended 2011, 2010 and 2009, respectively.   

      AIG
offers sales inducements, which include enhanced crediting rates or bonus payments to contract holders (bonus interest) on certain annuity and investment contract products. Sales
inducements provided to the contractholder are recognized as part of the liability for policyholders' contract deposits in the Consolidated Balance Sheet. Such amounts are deferred and amortized over
the life of the contract using the same methodology and assumptions used to amortize DAC. To qualify for such accounting treatment, the bonus interest must be explicitly identified in the contract at
inception, and AIG must demonstrate that such amounts are incremental to amounts AIG credits on similar contracts without bonus interest, and are higher than the contract's
expected ongoing crediting rates for periods after the bonus period. The deferred bonus interest and other deferred sales inducement assets totaled $766 million and $856 million at
December 31, 2011 and 2010, respectively. The amortization expense associated with these assets is reported within Policyholder benefits and claims incurred in the Consolidated Statement of
Operations. Such amortization expense totaled $201 million, $194 million and $215 million for the years ended December 31, 2011, 2010 and 2009, respectively.   

      All
commodities are recorded at the lower of cost or fair value. The exposure to market risk may be reduced through the use of forwards, futures and option contracts. Lower of cost or
fair value reductions in commodity positions and unrealized gains and losses in related derivatives are reflected in Other income.   

      See
Note 12 herein for a discussion of derivatives.   

      The
cost of buildings and furniture and equipment is depreciated principally on a straight-line basis over their estimated useful lives (maximum of 40 years for
buildings and 10 years for furniture and equipment). Expenditures for maintenance and repairs are charged to income as incurred; expenditures for improvements are capitalized and depreciated.
AIG periodically assesses the carrying value of its real estate for purposes of determining any asset impairment. Capitalized software costs, which represent costs directly related to obtaining,
developing or upgrading internal use software, are capitalized and amortized using the straight-line method over a period generally not exceeding five years. Real estate, fixed assets and
other long-lived assets are assessed for impairment when impairment indicators exist. Accumulated depreciation on real estate and other fixed assets was $3.8 billion and
$3.6 billion at December 31, 2011 and 2010, respectively.   

       (j) Goodwill:       Goodwill is the excess of the cost of an acquired business over the fair value of
the identifiable net assets of the acquired business. Goodwill is tested for impairment annually, or more frequently if circumstances indicate an impairment may have occurred. Substantially all of
AIG's goodwill is associated with and allocated to its Chartis segment at December 31, 2011.   

  220            AIG 2011 Form 10-K  

Table of Contents   

   American International Group, Inc.  

   NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS    

      The
impairment assessment involves a two-step process in which an initial assessment for potential impairment is performed and, if potential impairment is present, the amount
of impairment is measured (if any) and recorded. Impairment is tested at the reporting unit level.   

      Management
initially assesses the potential for impairment by estimating the fair value of each of AIG's reporting units and comparing the estimated fair values with the carrying amounts
of those reporting units, including allocated goodwill. The estimate of a reporting unit's fair value may be based on one or a combination of
approaches including market-based earnings multiples of the unit's peer companies, discounted expected future cash flows, external appraisals or, in the case of reporting units being considered for
sale, third-party indications of fair value, if available. Management considers one or more of these estimates when determining the fair value of a reporting unit to be used in the impairment test.   

      If
the estimated fair value of a reporting unit exceeds its carrying value, goodwill is not impaired. If the carrying value of a reporting unit exceeds its estimated fair value, goodwill
associated with that reporting unit potentially is impaired. The amount of impairment, if any, is measured as the excess of the carrying value of the goodwill over the implied fair value of the
goodwill. The implied fair value of the goodwill is measured as the excess of the fair value of the reporting unit over the amounts that would be assigned to the reporting unit's assets and
liabilities in a hypothetical business combination. An impairment charge is recognized in earnings to the extent of the excess. Chartis manages its assets on an aggregate basis and does not allocate
its assets, other than goodwill, between its operating segments. Therefore, the carrying value of the reporting units was determined by allocating the carrying value of Chartis to those units based
upon an internal model.   

      During
the third quarter of 2011, Chartis finalized its reorganization, operating design and related segment reporting changes. In connection with this reorganization, total goodwill of
$1.4 billion was allocated between Commercial Insurance and Consumer Insurance based on their relative fair values as of September 30, 2011. Management tested the allocated goodwill for
impairment and determined that the fair values of the Commercial Insurance and Consumer Insurance reporting units exceeded their carrying values at both September 30, 2011 and
December 31, 2011 and therefore the goodwill of these reporting units was considered not impaired.   

      During
2010, AIG had performed goodwill impairment tests at March 31, June 30 and September 30, in connection with the announced sales of ALICO, AIG Star and AIG
Edison and again at December 31, 2010.   

      During
2010, AIG determined that the fair value of ALICO was less than its carrying value. Based on the results of the goodwill impairment test, AIG determined that all of the goodwill
allocated to ALICO should be impaired and, accordingly, recognized a goodwill impairment charge of $3.3 billion.   

      In
connection with the announced sale of AIG Star and AIG Edison (the Reporting Unit) in 2010 and management's determination that the Reporting Unit met the
held-for-sale criteria, management tested the $1.3 billion of goodwill of the Reporting Unit for impairment. AIG estimated the fair value of the Reporting Unit based on
the consideration to be received pursuant to the agreement with Prudential Financial Inc. and determined the fair value to be less than its carrying value. Based on the results of the goodwill
impairment test, AIG determined that all of the goodwill allocated to the Reporting Unit should be impaired and, accordingly, recognized a goodwill impairment charge of $1.3 billion in the
third quarter of 2010.   

      At
December 31, 2010, AIG performed its annual goodwill impairment test. Based on the results of the goodwill impairment test, AIG concluded that the remaining goodwill was not
impaired.   

  AIG 2011 Form 10-K            221  

Table of Contents   

   American International Group, Inc.  

   NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS    

The following table presents the changes in goodwill by reportable segment:            

(a)       Includes foreign exchange translation and purchase price adjustments (PPA).   
       (b)      Reflects the deconsolidation of AIA.    

(k) Separate accounts:       Separate accounts represent funds for which investment income and
investment gains and losses accrue directly to the policyholders who bear the investment risk. Each account has specific investment objectives, and the assets are carried at fair value. The assets of
each account are legally segregated and are not subject to claims that arise out of any other business of AIG. The liabilities for these accounts are equal to the account assets.   

        (l) Liability for unpaid claims and claims adjustment expense:       The liability for unpaid claims
and claims adjustment expense represents the accumulation of estimates for unpaid reported losses and includes provisions for IBNR losses. Because the reserves are based on estimates, the ultimate
liability may be more or less than such reserves. The methods of determining such estimates and establishing resulting reserves are reviewed and updated periodically. If the estimate of reserves is
determined to be inadequate or redundant, the increase or decrease is reflected in income. AIG discounts its loss reserves relating to workers' compensation business written by its U.S. domiciled
subsidiaries as permitted by the domiciliary statutory regulatory authorities.   

(m) Future policy benefits for life and accident and health insurance contracts and policyholder contract
deposits:       The liabilities for future policy benefits and policyholder contract deposits are established using assumptions described in
Note 13 herein. Future policy benefits for life and accident and health insurance contracts include provisions for future dividends to participating policyholders, accrued in accordance with
all applicable regulatory or contractual provisions. Also included in Future policy benefits are liabilities for annuities issued in structured settlement arrangements whereby a claimant has agreed to
settle a general insurance claim in   

  222            AIG 2011 Form 10-K  

Table of Contents   

   American International Group, Inc.  

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS    

exchange
for fixed payments over a fixed determinable period of time with a life contingency feature. Structured settlement liabilities are presented on a discounted basis because the settled claims
are fixed and determinable. Policyholder contract deposits also include AIG's liability for (a) certain guarantee benefits accounted for as
embedded derivatives at fair value, (b) annuities issued in a structured settlement arrangement with no life contingency and (c) certain contracts AIG elected to account for at fair
value.   

      See
Note 6 herein for additional fair value information.   

(n) Other policyholder funds:       Other policyholder funds are reported at cost and include any
policyholder funds on deposit that encompass premium deposits and similar items.   

        (o) Income taxes:       Deferred tax assets and liabilities are recorded for the effects of temporary
differences between the tax basis of an asset or liability and its reported amount in the consolidated financial statements. AIG assesses its ability to realize deferred tax assets considering all
available evidence, including the earnings history, the timing, character and amount of future earnings potential, the reversal of taxable temporary differences and prudent and feasible tax planning
strategies available to the legal entities when recognizing deferred tax assets. See Note 22 herein for a further discussion of income taxes.   

        (p) Other liabilities:       Other liabilities consist of other funds on deposit, other payables,
securities sold under agreements to repurchase and securities and spot commodities sold but not yet purchased. AIG has entered into certain insurance and reinsurance contracts, primarily in its
Chartis segment, that do not contain sufficient insurance risk to be accounted for as insurance or reinsurance. Accordingly, the premiums received on such contracts, after deduction for certain
related expenses, are recorded as deposits within Other liabilities in the Consolidated Balance Sheet. Net proceeds of these deposits are invested and generate Net investment income. As amounts are
paid, consistent with the underlying contracts, the deposit liability is reduced. Also included in Other liabilities are trade payables for the Direct Investment book and AIGFP, which include option
premiums received and payables to counterparties that relate to unrealized gains and losses on futures, forwards, and options and balances due to clearing brokers and exchanges. Trade payables for
Global Capital Markets include cash collateral received from derivative counterparties that is not contractually nettable against derivative assets.   

      Securities
and spot commodities sold but not yet purchased represent sales of securities and spot commodities not owned at the time of sale. The obligations arising from such
transactions are recorded on a trade-date basis and carried at fair value. Fair values of securities sold but not yet purchased are based on current market prices. Fair values of spot
commodities sold but not yet purchased are based on current market prices of reference spot futures contracts traded on exchanges.   

      Liabilities
arising from securities sold under agreements to repurchase securities (repurchase agreements) (other than those entered into by AIGFP) are generally treated as
collateralized borrowing transactions and are recorded
at their contracted repurchase amounts plus accrued interest. Agreements to repurchase securities entered into by AIGFP are carried at fair value based on market-observable interest rates. As of
December 31, 2011, the fair value of repurchase agreements accounted for as collateralized borrowing transactions was $563 million.   

When
AIG does not obtain cash proceeds sufficient to fund substantially all of the cost of purchasing identical replacement securities during the term of the contract (generally less
than 90 percent of the security value), AIG accounts for the transaction as a sale of the security and reports the obligation to repurchase the security as a derivative contract that is
recognized at fair value through earnings. When securities carried in the available for sale category are sold, AIG records a gain or loss in income. When securities accounted for at fair value are
considered sold, no additional gain or loss is recognized.   

The
fair value of securities transferred under repurchase agreements accounted for as sales was $2.1 billion and $2.7 billion at December 31, 2011 and
December 31, 2010, respectively.   

  AIG 2011 Form 10-K            223  

Table of Contents   

   American International Group, Inc.  

   NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS    

      As
of December 31, 2011, the fair value of collateral posted by AIG for repurchase agreements totaled $2.8 billion, of which $2.7 billion could be repledged or
resold by the counterparties. The market value of securities to be repurchased is monitored, and additional collateral is posted where appropriate.   

Also
included in Other liabilities are obligations under gold leases, which are accounted for as a debt host with an embedded gold derivative which are accounted for under the fair value
option.   

        (q) Other long-term debt:       AIG's funding consists, in part, of medium and
long-term debt. Long-term debt is carried at the principal amount borrowed, net of unamortized discounts or premiums. See Note 15 herein for additional information.
Long-term debt also includes liabilities connected to trust preferred stock principally related to outstanding securities issued by SunAmerica Financial Group, Inc.
(SAFG, Inc.), a wholly owned subsidiary of AIG (formerly AIG Life Holdings, Inc.). Cash distributions on such preferred stock are accounted for as interest expense.   

(r) Contingent liabilities:       Amounts are accrued for the resolution of claims that have either
been asserted or are deemed probable of assertion if, in the opinion of management, it is both probable that a liability has been incurred and the amount of the liability can be reasonably estimated.
In many cases, it is not possible to determine whether a liability has been incurred or to
estimate the ultimate or minimum amount of that liability until years after the contingency arises, in which case, no accrual is made until that time. See Note 16 herein for additional
information.   

        (s) Foreign currency:       Financial statement accounts expressed in foreign currencies are
translated into U.S. dollars. Functional currency assets and liabilities are translated into U.S. dollars generally using rates of exchange prevailing at the balance sheet date of each respective
subsidiary and the related translation adjustments are recorded as a separate component of Accumulated other comprehensive income (loss), net of any related taxes, in Total AIG shareholders' equity.
Functional currencies are generally the currencies of the local operating environment. Financial statement accounts expressed in currencies other than the functional currency of a consolidated entity
are translated into that entity's functional currency. Income statement accounts expressed in functional currencies are translated using average exchange rates during the period. The adjustments
resulting from translation of financial statements of foreign entities operating in highly inflationary economies are recorded in income. Exchange gains and losses resulting from foreign currency
transactions are recorded in income.   

(t) Noncontrolling interests:            

         Nonvoting, callable, junior preferred interests held by Department of the Treasury and Nonvoting, callable,
junior and senior preferred interests held by the FRBNY:       Represent preferred interests in (i) at December 31, 2011, a wholly-owned SPV initially
formed to hold the common stock of AIA and (ii) at December 31, 2010, two wholly-owned SPVs initially formed to hold common stock of AIA and ALICO at December 31, 2010. The
preferred interests were measured at fair value on their issuance date. AIG transferred the preferred interests in the SPVs to the FRBNY in consideration for a $25 billion reduction of the
FRBNY Credit Facility. The preferred interests initially had a liquidation preference of $25 billion and had a preferred return of five percent per year compounded quarterly through
September 22, 2013 and nine percent thereafter. The preferred return is reflected in Income (loss) from continuing operations attributable to noncontrolling interests  
Nonvoting, callable, junior and senior preferred interests in the Consolidated Statement of Operations. The difference between the preferred interests' fair value and the initial liquidation
preference is being amortized and included in Net income (loss) from continuing operations attributable to noncontrolling interests   Nonvoting, callable, junior and senior
preferred interests. These noncontrolling interests, other than the senior preferred interests in the ALICO SPV, which were redeemed in full, were transferred to the Department of the Treasury as part
of the January 14, 2011 Recapitalization transactions.   

  224            AIG 2011 Form 10-K  

Table of Contents   

   American International Group, Inc.  

   NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS    

        Other noncontrolling interests:       Includes the equity interests of third-party shareholders in AIG's consolidated subsidiaries and includes the
preferred shareholders' equity in outstanding preferred stock of ILFC, a wholly owned subsidiary of AIG. Cash distributions on such preferred stock or equity interests are accounted for as interest
expense. This preferred stock consists of 1,000 shares of market auction preferred stock (MAPS) in two series (Series A and B) of 500 shares each. Each of the MAPS shares has a
liquidation value of $100,000 per share and is not convertible. The dividend rate, other than the initial rate, for each dividend period for each series is reset approximately every seven weeks
(49 days) on the basis of orders placed in an auction, provided such auctions are able to occur. At December 31, 2011, there is no ability to conduct such auctions; therefore, the MAPS
certificate of determination dictates that a maximum applicable rate, as defined in the certificate of determination, be paid on the MAPS. At December 31, 2011, the dividend rate for each of
the Series A and Series B MAPS was 0.25 percent and 0.88 percent respectively.   

        (u) Earnings (loss) per share:       Basic earnings or loss per share and diluted loss per share are
based on the weighted average number of common shares outstanding, adjusted to reflect all stock dividends and stock splits. Diluted earnings per share is based on those shares used in basic earnings
per share plus shares that would have been outstanding assuming issuance of common shares for all dilutive potential common shares outstanding, adjusted to reflect all stock dividends and stock
splits.   

      See
Note 17 herein for additional earnings (loss) per share disclosures.   

(v) Recent accounting standards:            

Future Application of Accounting Standards            

Accounting for Costs Associated with Acquiring or Renewing Insurance Contracts           

      In October 2010, the Financial Accounting Standards Board (FASB) issued an accounting standard that amends the accounting for costs incurred by
insurance companies that can be capitalized in connection with acquiring or renewing insurance contracts. The standard amends how to determine whether the costs incurred in connection with the
acquisition of new or renewal insurance contracts qualify as deferred acquisition costs. The standard is effective for interim and annual periods beginning on January 1, 2012 with early
adoption permitted. Prospective or retrospective application is also permitted.   

      AIG
will adopt the standard retrospectively on January 1, 2012. Upon adoption, retrospective application will result in a reduction to opening retained earnings for the earliest
period presented and a decrease in the amount of capitalized costs in connection with the acquisition or renewal of insurance contracts because AIG will only defer costs that are incremental and
directly related to the successful acquisition of new or renewal business.   

      As
a result of adopting this standard at January 1, 2012, AIG expects a pre-tax reduction of Deferred policy acquisition costs of approximately $4.9 billion and
an after-tax decrease in AIG shareholders' equity of approximately $3.3 billion, which consists of a decrease in Retained earnings of approximately $3.7 billion partially
offset by an increase in Accumulated other comprehensive income of $0.4 billion at January 1, 2012. The retrospective adoption will favorably affect Income (loss) from continuing
operations before income taxes (benefit) by approximately $149 million, $90 million and $40 million for the years ended December 31, 2011, 2010, and 2009, respectively. The
reduction in Deferred policy acquisition costs is primarily due to lower deferrals associated with unsuccessful efforts as well as advertising costs included in Deferred policy acquisition costs that
no longer meet the criteria for deferral under the accounting standard.   

  AIG 2011 Form 10-K            225  

Table of Contents    

   American International Group, Inc.   

   NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS     

Reconsideration of Effective Control for Repurchase Agreements           

      In April 2011, the FASB issued an accounting standard that amends the criteria used to determine effective control for repurchase agreements and
other similar arrangements such as securities lending transactions. The standard modifies the criteria for determining when these transactions would be accounted for as secured borrowings
(i.e., financings) instead of sales of the securities.   

      The
standard removes from the assessment of effective control the requirement that the transferor have the ability to repurchase or redeem the financial assets on substantially the
agreed terms, even in the event of default by the
transferee. The removal of this requirement makes the level of collateral received by the transferor in a repurchase agreement or similar arrangement irrelevant in determining whether the transaction
should be accounted for as a sale. Consequently, more repurchase agreements, securities lending transactions and similar arrangements will be accounted for as secured borrowings.   

The
guidance in the standard must be applied prospectively to transactions or modifications of existing transactions that occur on or after January 1, 2012. Early adoption is
prohibited. Under this standard, which AIG adopted on January 1, 2012, $2.1 billion in repurchase agreements will continue to be accounted for as sales unless modifications of these
transactions occur subsequent to adoption, which would result in an assessment of whether they should be accounted for as secured borrowings under the standard.   

Common Fair Value Measurements and Disclosure Requirements in GAAP and IFRS           

      In May 2011, the FASB issued an accounting standard that amends certain aspects of the fair value measurement guidance in GAAP, primarily to
achieve the FASB's objective of a converged definition of fair value and substantially converged measurement and disclosure guidance with International Financial Reporting Standards (IFRS).
Consequently, when the standard becomes effective on January 1, 2012, fair value measurement and disclosure requirements under GAAP and IFRS will be consistent, with certain exceptions
including the accounting for day one gains and losses, measuring the fair value of alternative investments using net asset value and certain disclosure requirements.   

The
standard's fair value guidance applies to all companies that measure assets, liabilities, or instruments classified in shareholders' equity at fair value or provide fair value
disclosures for items not recorded at fair value. While many of the amendments are not expected to significantly affect current practice, the guidance clarifies how a principal market is determined,
addresses the fair value measurement of financial instruments with offsetting market or counterparty credit risks and the concept of valuation premise (i.e., in-use or in exchange)
and highest and best use, extends the prohibition on blockage factors to all three levels of the fair value hierarchy, and requires additional disclosures.   

The
standard is effective for AIG for interim and annual periods beginning on January 1, 2012. The new disclosure requirements must be applied prospectively. The standard will not
have a material effect on AIG's consolidated financial condition, results of operations or cash flows.   

Presentation of Comprehensive Income           

      In June 2011, the FASB issued an accounting standard that requires the presentation of comprehensive income either in a single continuous
statement of comprehensive income or in two separate but consecutive statements. In
the two-statement approach, the first statement should present total net income and its components, followed consecutively by a second statement that presents total other comprehensive
income and its components. This presentation is effective January 1, 2012 and is required to be applied retrospectively.   

  226            AIG 2011 Form 10-K  

Table of Contents   

   American International Group, Inc.  

   NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS    

Accounting Standards Adopted During 2011            

Fair Value Measurements and Disclosures           

      In January 2010, the FASB issued an accounting standard that requires fair value disclosures about significant transfers between Level 1
and 2 measurement categories and separate presentation of purchases, sales, issuances, and settlements within the rollforward of Level 3 activity. Also, this fair value guidance clarifies the
disclosure requirements about the level of disaggregation and valuation techniques and inputs. This guidance became effective for AIG beginning on January 1, 2010, except for the disclosures
about purchases, sales, issuances, and settlements within the rollforward of Level 3 activity, which became effective for AIG beginning on January 1, 2011. See Note 6 herein.   

Consolidation of Investments in Separate Accounts           

      In April 2010, the FASB issued an accounting standard that clarifies that an insurance company should not combine any investments held in separate
account interests with its interest in the same investment held in its general account when assessing the investment for consolidation. Separate accounts represent funds for which investment income
and investment gains and losses accrue directly to the policyholders who bear the investment risk. The standard also provides guidance on how an insurer should consolidate an investment fund when the
insurer concludes that consolidation of an investment is required and the insurer's interest is through its general account in addition to any separate accounts. The standard became effective for AIG
on January 1, 2011. The adoption of this standard did not have a material effect on AIG's consolidated financial condition, results of operations or cash flows.   

A Creditor's Determination of Whether a Restructuring is a Troubled Debt Restructuring           

      In April 2011, the FASB issued an accounting standard that amends the guidance for a creditor's evaluation of whether a restructuring is a
troubled debt restructuring and requires additional disclosures about a creditor's troubled debt restructuring activities. The standard clarifies the existing guidance on the two criteria used by
creditors to determine whether a modification or restructuring is a troubled debt restructuring: (i) whether the creditor has granted a concession and (ii) whether the debtor is
experiencing financial difficulties. The standard became effective for AIG for interim and annual periods beginning on July 1, 2011. AIG applied the guidance in the accounting standard
retrospectively for all modifications and restructuring activities that had occurred since January 1, 2011. For receivables that were considered impaired under the guidance, AIG was required to
measure the impairment of those receivables prospectively in the first period of adoption. In addition, AIG must provide the disclosures about troubled debt restructuring activities in the period of
adoption. The adoption of this standard did not have a material effect on AIG's consolidated financial condition, results of operations or cash flows. See Note 8 herein.   

Testing Goodwill for Impairment           

      In September 2011, the FASB issued an accounting standard that amends the approach to testing goodwill for impairment. The standard simplifies how
entities test goodwill for impairment by permitting an entity to first assess qualitative factors to determine whether it is more likely than not that the fair value of a reporting unit is less than
its carrying amount as a basis for determining whether it is necessary to perform the quantitative, two-step goodwill impairment test. The standard is effective for annual and interim
goodwill impairment tests performed for fiscal years beginning after December 15, 2011. Early adoption is permitted. AIG plans to adopt the standard in conjunction with its goodwill impairment
testing performed in 2012. The adoption of the standard is not expected to affect AIG's consolidated financial condition, results of operations or cash flows.   

  AIG 2011 Form 10-K            227  

Table of Contents   

   American International Group, Inc.  

   NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS    

Accounting Standards Adopted During 2010            

Accounting for Transfers of Financial Assets           

      In June 2009, the FASB issued an accounting standard addressing transfers of financial assets that removes the concept of a qualifying
special-purpose entity (QSPE) from the FASB Accounting Standards Codification and removes the exception that exempted transferors from applying the consolidation rules to QSPEs.   

      The
standard was effective for interim and annual periods beginning on January 1, 2010 for AIG. Earlier application was prohibited. The adoption of this standard increased both
assets and liabilities by approximately $1.3 billion as a result of consolidating two previously unconsolidated QSPEs. The adoption of this standard did not have a material effect on AIG's
consolidated financial condition, results of operations or cash flows.   

Consolidation of Variable Interest Entities           

      In June 2009, the FASB issued an accounting standard that amends the guidance addressing consolidation of certain variable interest entities with
an approach focused on identifying which enterprise has the power to direct the activities of a variable interest entity that most significantly affect the entity's economic performance and has
(1) the obligation to absorb losses of the entity or (2) the right to receive benefits from the entity. The standard also requires enhanced financial reporting by enterprises involved
with variable interest entities.   

   The following table summarizes the two methods applied by AIG and the amount and classification in the Consolidated Balance Sheet of the assets and liabilities consolidated as
a result of the adoption of the standard on January 1, 2010:   

The cumulative effect adjustment of electing the fair value option was not material to AIG's accumulated deficit.   

  228            AIG 2011 Form 10-K  

Table of Contents   

   American International Group, Inc.  

   NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS    

The following table summarizes the excess of amounts previously recorded upon the consolidation of previously unconsolidated VIEs, as a result of the adoption of the standard
on January 1, 2010:   

(in billions)    

Assets   
     
  $  
  8.2  

Liabilities  

7.1  

Redeemable noncontrolling interest  

1.1  

Equity:  

Accumulated deficit  

0.2  

Accumulated other comprehensive income  

(0.3  
  )  

Other noncontrolling interests  

0.1  

Total liabilities and equity   
     
  $  
  8.2  

In February 2010, the FASB also issued an update to the aforementioned accounting standard that defers the revised consolidation rules for
variable interest entities with attributes of, or similar to, an investment company or money market fund. The primary effect of this deferral for AIG is that AIG will continue to apply the
consolidation rules in effect before the amended guidance discussed above for its interests in eligible entities, such as certain mutual funds.   

Accounting for Embedded Credit Derivatives           

      In March 2010, the FASB issued an accounting standard that amends the accounting for embedded credit derivative features in structured securities
that redistribute credit risk in the form of subordination of one financial instrument to another. The standard clarifies how to determine whether embedded credit derivative features, including those
in collateralized debt obligations (CDOs), credit-linked notes (CLNs), synthetic CDOs and CLNs and other synthetic securities (e.g., commercial and residential mortgage-backed securities issued
by securitization entities that wrote credit derivatives), are considered to be embedded derivatives that should be analyzed for potential bifurcation and separate accounting or, alternatively, for
fair value accounting in connection with the application of the fair value option to the entire hybrid instrument. AIG adopted the standard on July 1, 2010 and recorded a reclassification of
$256 million of synthetic securities from Bonds available for sale to Bond trading securities and also reclassified a gain of $68 million from Accumulated other comprehensive income to
Accumulated deficit as of July 1, 2010. Upon adoption, AIG accounts for its investments in synthetic securities otherwise requiring bifurcation at fair value, with changes in fair value
recognized in earnings. The adoption of this standard did not have a material effect on AIG's consolidated financial condition, results of operations or cash flows.   

Disclosure about the Credit Quality of Financing Receivables           

      In July 2010, the FASB issued an accounting standard that requires enhanced disclosures about the credit quality of financing receivables that are
not measured at fair value. This guidance requires a greater level of disaggregated information about the credit quality of financing receivables and the related allowance for credit losses. In
addition, this guidance requires disclosure of credit quality indicators, past due information, and modifications of financing receivables. The disclosures as of the end of a reporting period became
effective for interim and annual reporting periods ended on or after December 15, 2010. The disclosures about activity that occurs during a reporting period became effective for interim and
annual reporting periods beginning on or after December 15, 2010. In January 2011, the FASB issued an accounting standard that temporarily deferred the effective date for disclosures on
modifications of financing receivables by creditors. In April 2011, the FASB issued an accounting standard that amended the guidance for a creditor's evaluation of whether a restructuring is a
troubled debt restructuring. In addition, this guidance requires additional disclosures about a creditor's troubled   

  AIG 2011 Form 10-K            229  

Table of Contents   

   American International Group, Inc.  

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS    

debt
restructuring activities in interim and annual periods beginning on July 1, 2011. See Accounting Standards Adopted During 2011 herein for further discussion.   

Accounting Standards Adopted During 2009            

Determining Whether an Instrument (or Embedded Feature) is Indexed to an Entity's Own Stock           

In June 2008, the FASB issued an accounting standard that addresses how to determine whether a financial instrument (or embedded feature) is
indexed to an entity's own stock and therefore may not be accounted for as a derivative instrument. AIG adopted the standard on January 1, 2009, which resulted in a $15 million
cumulative effect adjustment to opening Accumulated deficit and a $91 million reduction in Additional paid-in capital.   

Recognition and Presentation of Other-Than-Temporary Impairments           

In April 2009, the FASB issued an accounting standard that requires a company to recognize the credit component of an
other-than-temporary impairment of a fixed maturity security in earnings and the non-credit component in accumulated other comprehensive income when the company
does not intend to sell the security or it is more likely than not that the company will not be required to sell the security prior to recovery. The standard also changed the threshold for determining
when an other-than-temporary impairment has occurred on a fixed maturity security with respect to intent and ability to hold until recovery. The standard does not change the
recognition of other-than-temporary impairment for equity securities. The standard requires additional disclosures in interim and annual reporting periods for fixed maturity
and equity securities. See Note 7 herein for the expanded disclosures.   

      AIG
adopted the standard on April 1, 2009 and recorded an after-tax cumulative effect adjustment to increase AIG shareholders' equity by $2.5 billion as of
April 1, 2009, consisting of a decrease in Accumulated deficit of $11.8 billion and an increase to Accumulated other comprehensive loss of $9.3 billion, net of tax. The net
increase in AIG's shareholders' equity was due to a reversal of a portion of the deferred tax asset valuation allowance for certain previous non-credit impairment charges directly
attributable to the change in accounting principle (see Note 22 herein). The cumulative effect adjustment resulted in an increase of approximately $16 billion in the amortized cost of
fixed maturity securities, which has the effect of significantly reducing the accretion of investment income over the remaining life of the underlying securities, beginning in the second quarter of
2009. The effect of the reduced investment income will be offset, in part, by a decrease in the amortization of deferred policy acquisition costs (DAC) and sales inducements assets (SIA).   

      The
standard reduced the level of other-than-temporary impairment charges recorded in earnings for fixed maturity securities due to the following required changes
in AIG's accounting policy for other-than-temporary impairments (see Note 7 herein for a more detailed discussion of the changes in policy):   

Impairment charges for non-credit (e.g., severity) losses are no longer recognized;    
           The amortized cost basis of credit impaired securities will be written down through a charge to earnings to the present
value of expected cash flows, rather than to fair value; and     
           For fixed maturity securities that are not deemed to be credit-impaired, AIG is no longer required to assert that it has
the intent and ability to hold such securities to recovery to avoid an other-than-temporary impairment charge. Instead, an impairment charge through earnings is required only
when AIG has the intent to sell the fixed maturity security or it is more likely than not that AIG will be required to sell the security prior to recovery.    

230            AIG 2011 Form 10-K  

Table of Contents   

   American International Group, Inc.  

   NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS    

   The following table presents the components of the change in AIG shareholders' equity at April 1, 2009 due to the adoption of the accounting standard for
other-than-temporary impairments:   

(in billions)    
     
  Accumulated 
Deficit   
     
  Accumulated 
Other 
Comprehensive 
Loss   
     
  AIG 
Shareholders' 
Equity   

Increase (decrease) to:  

Net effect of the increase in amortized cost of available for sale fixed maturity securities  
     
  $  
  16.1  
     
  $  
  (16.1  
  )  
  $  
  -  

Net effect of related DAC, SIA and other insurance balances  

(1.8  
  )  
     
  1.8  

-  

Net effect on deferred income tax assets  

(2.5  
  )  
     
  5.0  

2.5  

Net increase in AIG shareholders' equity  
     
  $  
  11.8  
     
  $  
  (9.3  
  )  
  $  
  2.5  

Determining Fair Value When the Volume and Level of Activity for the Asset or Liability Have Significantly Decreased and Identifying  Transactions That Are Not Orderly           

      In April 2009 the FASB issued an accounting standard that provides guidance for estimating the fair value of assets and liabilities when the
volume and level of activity for an asset or liability have significantly decreased and for identifying circumstances that indicate a transaction is not orderly. The adoption of the standard on
April 1, 2009, did not have a material effect on AIG's consolidated financial condition, results of operations or cash flows.   

Measuring Liabilities at Fair Value           

      In August 2009, the FASB issued an accounting standard to clarify how the fair value measurement principles should be applied to measuring
liabilities carried at fair value. The standard explains how to prioritize market inputs in measuring liabilities at fair value and what adjustments to market inputs are appropriate for debt
obligations that are restricted from being transferred to another obligor. The standard was effective beginning October 1, 2009 for AIG. The adoption of the standard did not have a material
effect on AIG's consolidated financial condition, results of operations or cash flows.   

Investments in Certain Entities that Calculate Net Asset Value per Share (or Its Equivalent)           

      In September 2009, the FASB issued an accounting standard that permits, as a practical expedient, a company to measure the fair value of an
investment that is within the scope of the standard on the basis of the net asset value per share of the investment (or its equivalent) if that value is calculated in accordance with fair value as
defined by the FASB. The standard also requires enhanced disclosures. The standard applies to investment companies that do not have readily determinable fair values such as certain hedge funds and
private equity funds. The standard was effective for interim and annual periods ended after December 15, 2009. The adoption of the standard did not have a material effect on AIG's consolidated
financial condition, results of operations or cash flows. See Note 6 herein for disclosure.   

3. SEGMENT INFORMATION    

      AIG reports the results of its operations through three reportable segments: Chartis, SunAmerica Financial Group (SunAmerica) and Aircraft
Leasing. AIG evaluates performance based on pre-tax income (loss), excluding results from discontinued operations and net (gains) losses on sales of divested businesses, because AIG
believes this provides more meaningful information on how its operations are performing.   

  AIG 2011 Form 10-K            231  

Table of Contents   

   American International Group, Inc.  

   NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS    

      In
order to align financial reporting with changes made during 2011 to the manner in which AIG's chief operating decision makers review the businesses to assess performance and make
decisions about resources to be allocated, the following changes were made to AIG's segment information:   

During the third quarter of 2011, Chartis completed the previously-announced reorganization of its operations and now
presents its financial information in two operating segments   Commercial Insurance and Consumer Insurance, as well as a Chartis Other operations category. Prior to the third
quarter of 2011, Chartis presented its financial information in two operating segments, Chartis U.S. and Chartis International.     
           Aircraft Leasing is now presented as a standalone reportable segment. It was previously reported as a component of the
Financial Services reportable segment.     
           The derivatives portfolio of AIGFP, previously reported as Capital Markets, a component of the Financial Services
reportable segment, is now reported with AIG Markets, Inc. (AIG Markets) as Global Capital Markets in AIG's Other operations.    

Prior
periods have been revised to conform to the current period presentation for the above segment changes.   

      The
reportable segments and their respective operations are as follows:   

       Chartis:       AIG's property and casualty operations are conducted through multiple-line companies writing substantially all commercial and
consumer lines both domestically and abroad. Chartis offers its products through a diverse, multi-channel distribution network that includes agents, wholesalers, global and local brokers, and
direct-to-consumer platforms. Beginning in the third quarter of 2010, Chartis includes the results of Fuji Fire   Marine Insurance Company Limited (Fuji), which writes
primarily consumer lines in Japan. See Note 5 herein.   

       SunAmerica:       SunAmerica offers a comprehensive suite of products and services to individuals and groups, including term life insurance, universal life
insurance, accident and health (A H) insurance, fixed and variable deferred annuities, fixed payout annuities, mutual funds and financial planning. SunAmerica offers its products and services through
a diverse, multi-channel distribution network that includes banks, national, regional and independent
broker-dealers, affiliated financial advisors, independent marketing organizations, independent and career insurance agents, structured settlement brokers, benefit consultants and
direct-to-consumer platforms.   

      The
SunAmerica segment is presented as two operating segments      Domestic Life Insurance   , which focuses on mortality and
morbidity based protection products, and    Domestic Retirement Services   , which focuses on investment, retirement savings and income solutions.   

        Aircraft Leasing:       AIG's commercial aircraft leasing business is conducted through ILFC.   

Other Operations:       AIG's Other operations include results from:   

Mortgage Guaranty operations;     
           Global Capital Markets operations;     
           Direct Investment book results;     
           Retained Interests, which represents the fair value gains or losses on the AIA ordinary shares retained following the AIA
initial public offering, the retained interest in ML III, and, prior to their sale on March 8, 2011, the MetLife securities that were received as consideration from the sale of ALICO;    
           Corporate   Other operations (after allocations to AIG's business segments); and     
           Divested businesses that did not qualify for discontinued operations accounting.    

Year-end
identifiable assets presented in the following tables include assets of businesses held for sale at December 31, 2010 and 2009.   

  232            AIG 2011 Form 10-K  

Table of Contents   

   American International Group, Inc.  

   NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS    

   The following table presents AIG's operations by reportable segment:     

(a)       Included in Total revenues presented above.   
       (b)      Interest expense for Other operations in 2010 and 2009 includes amortization of prepaid commitment fee asset of $3.5 billion
and $8.4 billion, respectively.    

AIG 2011 Form 10-K            233  

Table of Contents    

American International Group, Inc.   

   NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS     

   The following table presents Chartis operations by operating segment:     

Chartis manages its assets on an aggregate basis and does not allocate its assets, other than goodwill, between its operating segments. Investment
income is allocated to the Commercial Insurance and Consumer Insurance segments based upon an internal capital model. The model estimates investable funds based upon the loss reserves, unearned
premiums and a capital allocation for each operating segment. The investment income is calculated based on the estimated investable funds and the duration of the liabilities. Any difference between
the calculated investment income and the actual investment income is included in Chartis Other.   

  234            AIG 2011 Form 10-K  

Table of Contents   

   American International Group, Inc.  

   NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS    

The following table presents SunAmerica operations by operating segment:     

AIG's Aircraft Leasing operations consist of a single operating segment.   

      AIG
Global Real Estate Investment Corp. and Institutional Asset Management, previously reported as components of the Direct Investment book and Asset Management operations, respectively,
are now reported in Corporate   Other.   

  AIG 2011 Form 10-K            235  

Table of Contents   

American International Group, Inc.  

   NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS    

   The following table presents the components of AIG's Other operations:     

236            AIG 2011 Form 10-K  

Table of Contents   

   American International Group, Inc.  

   NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS    

The following table presents AIG's operations and long-lived assets by major geographic area:     

(a)       Revenues are generally reported according to the geographic location of the reporting unit.   
       (b)      ILFC derives more than 94 percent of its lease revenue from non-U.S. carriers.    

4. DIVESTED BUSINESSES, DISCONTINUED OPERATIONS AND  HELD-FOR-SALE CLASSIFICATION    

DIVESTED BUSINESSES   

AIA Initial Public Offering            

      During the second quarter of 2010, AIG and Prudential plc terminated the AIA purchase agreement they had entered in March 2010 and in
accordance with the terms of the purchase agreement, Prudential plc paid AIG a termination fee of $228 million, which is included in Net (gain) loss on sale of properties and divested
businesses in the Consolidated Statement of Operations.   

      On
October 29, 2010, AIG completed an IPO of 8.08 billion ordinary shares of AIA for aggregate gross proceeds of approximately $20.5 billion. Upon completion of the
IPO, AIG owned 33 percent of AIA's outstanding shares. Accordingly, AIG deconsolidated AIA and recorded a pre-tax gain of $16.3 billion in 2010. Under the terms of an
agreement with the underwriters, AIG is precluded from selling or hedging more than one-half of its remaining shares of AIA until April 18, 2012. Based on AIG's continuing
involvement as a result of its 33 percent ownership and board representation, AIA is not being presented as a discontinued operation in the Consolidated Financial Statements at
December 31, 2011 and 2010. AIG accounts for its investment in AIA under the fair value option with gains and losses recorded in Net investment income. At December 31, 2011 and 2010, the
fair value of AIG's retained interest in AIA was approximately $12.4 billion and approximately $11.1 billion, respectively, and is included in Other invested assets.   

DISCONTINUED OPERATIONS   

      The results of operations for the following sales are presented as discontinued operations in AIG's Consolidated Statement of Operations.   

  AIG 2011 Form 10-K            237  

Table of Contents   

   American International Group, Inc.  

   NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS    

ALICO Sale            

      On March 7, 2010, AIG and the ALICO SPV entered into a definitive agreement with MetLife for the sale of ALICO by the ALICO SPV to MetLife,
and the sale of Delaware American Life Insurance Company by AIG to MetLife, for consideration then valued at approximately $15.5 billion, consisting of $6.8 billion in cash and the
remainder in equity securities of MetLife, subject to closing adjustments. The ALICO sale closed on November 1, 2010. AIG does not have any significant continuing involvement with or
significant continuing cash flows from ALICO. The fair value of the consideration at closing was approximately $16.2 billion. At December 31, 2010, a total of $6.5 billion was
included in common and preferred stock trading.   

      On
the closing date, as consideration for the ALICO sale, the ALICO SPV received net cash consideration of $7.2 billion (which included an upward price adjustment of approximately
$400 million pursuant to the terms of the ALICO stock purchase agreement), 78,239,712 shares of MetLife common stock, 6,857,000 shares of newly issued MetLife participating preferred stock
convertible into 68,570,000 shares of MetLife common stock upon the approval of MetLife shareholders and 40,000,000 equity units of MetLife with an aggregate stated value of $3.2 billion. AIG
recorded a pre-tax gain of $4.1 billion on the transaction in 2010.   

      As
part of the Recapitalization, AIG used approximately $6.1 billion of the cash proceeds from the ALICO sale to pay down a portion of the liquidation preference of the SPV
Preferred Interests.   

AGF Sale            

      On August 10, 2010, AIG entered into a definitive agreement to sell an 80 percent economic interest (84 percent voting
interest) in American General Finance, Inc. (AGF) for $125 million. The AGF sale closed on November 30, 2010. AIG's voting ownership interest in AGF was reduced to approximately
16 percent, and AIG does not otherwise have significant continuing involvement with or significant continuing cash flows from AGF. AIG is carrying its retained investment in AGF of
approximately $30 million as a cost method investment in Other invested assets. As a result of this transaction, AIG recorded a pre-tax loss of $1.7 billion in 2010.   

      The
components of the $1.7 billion charge consisted of the difference between (i) the sum of the fair value of the agreed consideration and AIG's retained 20 percent
economic interest and (ii) the net book value of the assets. Prior to the agreed sale, AGF's business and underlying assets were subject to periodic impairment assessments under a
held-for-use model and did not meet the criteria for held-for-sale accounting. The large majority of AGF's assets were consumer finance and mortgage
loans held for investment and thus were not carried at fair value.   

AIG Star and AIG Edison Sale            

      On September 30, 2010, AIG entered into a definitive agreement with Prudential Financial, Inc. for the sale of its Japan-based
insurance subsidiaries, AIG Star and AIG Edison, for total consideration of $4.8 billion, including the assumption of certain outstanding debt totaling $0.6 billion owed by AIG Star and
AIG Edison. The transaction closed on February 1, 2011 and AIG recognized a pre-tax gain of $2.0 billion on the sale that is reflected in Income (loss) from discontinued
operations in the Consolidated Statement of Operations. In connection with the sale, AIG recorded a goodwill impairment charge of $1.3 billion in the third quarter of 2010.   

Nan Shan Sale            

      On January 12, 2011, AIG entered into an agreement to sell its 97.57 percent interest in Nan Shan to a Taiwan-based consortium. The
transaction was consummated on August 18, 2011 for net proceeds of $2.15 billion in cash. AIG recorded a pre-tax loss of $976 million for the year ended
December 31, 2011 largely offsetting Nan Shan operating results for the period, which is reflected in Income (loss) from discontinued operations in the   

  238            AIG 2011 Form 10-K  

Table of Contents   

   American International Group, Inc.  

   NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS    

Consolidated
Statement of Operations. The net proceeds from the transaction were used to pay down a portion of the liquidation preference of the Department of the Treasury's AIA SPV Preferred
Interests.   

      See
Note 16 herein for a discussion of guarantees and indemnifications associated with sales of businesses.   

ALICO,
Nan Shan, AIG Star and AIG Edison previously were components of the Foreign Life Insurance   Retirement Services reportable segment and AGF previously was a component of
the Financial Services reportable segment. Results from discontinued operations for 2011, 2010 and 2009 include the results of Nan Shan, AIG Star and AIG Edison through the date of disposition.
Results from discontinued operations for 2010 and 2009 also include the results of ALICO and AGF, which were sold during 2010. The results also include adjustments for guarantees and indemnifications
related to these sold businesses.   

      Certain
other sales completed during 2011, 2010 and 2009 were not classified as discontinued operations because AIG continued to generate significant direct revenue-producing or
cost-generating cash flows from the businesses or because associated assets, liabilities and results of operations were not material, individually or in the aggregate, to AIG's
consolidated financial position or results of operations.   

   The following table summarizes income (loss) from discontinued operations:     

*       In 2010, includes goodwill impairment charges of $3.3 billion related to the sale of ALICO and $1.3 billion related to the sale of AIG Star and
AIG Edison. See Note 2(j)   Goodwill herein for further discussion.    

Interest Expense Allocation            

      Interest expense allocated to discontinued operations gives effect to the provisions of the Recapitalization discussed in Note 1 for all
periods presented. For this reason, an interest allocation to discontinued operations related to a portion of the ALICO and all the AGF proceeds was required.   

      The
interest expense allocated to discontinued operations was based on the anticipated net proceeds that would be applied toward the repayment of the FRBNY Credit Facility from the sales
of ALICO and AGF multiplied by the daily interest rate on the FRBNY Credit Facility for each respective period. The periodic amortization of the prepaid commitment fee allocated to discontinued
operations was determined based on the ratio of funds committed to repay the FRBNY Credit Facility to the total amount of credit available under the FRBNY Credit Facility.   

  AIG 2011 Form 10-K            239  

Table of Contents    

   American International Group, Inc.   

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS     

      Prior to the Recapitalization, the terms of the FRBNY Credit Facility contractually required net proceeds from dispositions, after taxes and transaction expenses,
to the extent such proceeds did not represent capital of AIG's insurance subsidiaries required for regulatory or ratings purposes, to be applied toward the repayment of the FRBNY Credit Facility as
mandatory prepayments unless otherwise agreed with the FRBNY. Mandatory prepayments reduced the amount available to be borrowed under the FRBNY Credit Facility by the amount of the prepayment. In
conjunction with anticipated prepayments, AIG allocated interest expense, including periodic amortization of the prepaid commitment fee asset, to Income (loss) from discontinued operations. As a
result of the revised terms for repayment of the FRBNY Credit Facility, interest expense that was previously allocated to discontinued operations in connection with the sales of AIG Star, AIG Edison
and Nan Shan was reclassified to continuing operations for all periods presented.   

HELD-FOR-SALE CLASSIFICATION   

      At December 31, 2011, AIG had completed the sales of its remaining assets and liabilities that had been classified as
held-for-sale. At December 31, 2010, held-for-sale assets and liabilities consisted of Nan Shan, AIG Star, and AIG Edison, and aircraft that
remained to be sold by ILFC under agreements for sale.   

   The following table summarizes the components of assets and liabilities held for sale on the Consolidated Balance Sheet as of December 31, 2010:   

*       Represents nine aircraft that were under agreements for sale by ILFC at December 31, 2010.    

5. BUSINESS COMBINATIONS    

      On March 31, 2010, AIG, through a Chartis subsidiary, purchased additional voting shares in Fuji, a publicly traded Japanese insurance
company with property/casualty insurance operations and a life insurance subsidiary. The acquisition of the additional voting shares for $145 million increased Chartis' total voting ownership
interest in Fuji from 41.7 percent to 54.8 percent, which resulted in Chartis obtaining control of Fuji. In connection with the acquisition, AIG recognized a bargain purchase gain of
$332 million in the Consolidated Statement of Operations for the year ended December 31, 2010. The bargain purchase gain was primarily attributable to the   

  240            AIG 2011 Form 10-K  

Table of Contents   

   American International Group, Inc.  

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS    

depressed
market value of Fuji's common stock, which AIG believes was the result of macroeconomic, capital market and regulatory factors in Japan coupled with Fuji's financial condition and results of
operations. The acquisition was consistent with Chartis' desire to increase its share in the substantial Japanese insurance market and to achieve cost savings from synergies.   

      In
March 2011, Chartis completed the acquisition of approximately 305 million shares of Fuji tendered in response to a public offer at an offer price of 146 Yen per share ($1.76
per share) for a purchase price of $538 million. In August 2011, Chartis acquired the remaining outstanding voting shares of Fuji. As a result of these actions, Chartis now owns
100 percent of Fuji.   

      The
2011 purchases were accounted for as equity transactions because AIG previously consolidated Fuji due to its controlling interest. Accordingly, the difference between the fair value
of the total consideration paid of $560 million and the carrying value of the noncontrolling interest acquired of $489 million was recognized as a reduction of AIG's equity. There was no
gain or loss recorded in the Consolidated Statement of Operations for the year ended December 31, 2011.   

      On
October 7, 2011, AIG through ILFC acquired all of the issued and outstanding shares of capital stock of AeroTurbine for an aggregate cash purchase price of $228 million.
AeroTurbine is a provider of certified aircraft engines, aircraft and engine parts and supply chain solutions. This acquisition is expected to further maximize the value of ILFC's aircraft by
providing ILFC with in-house part-out and engine leasing capabilities. The acquisition was recorded as a business combination and is not significant to AIG's Consolidated
Financial Statements.   

6. FAIR VALUE MEASUREMENTS    

FAIR VALUE MEASUREMENTS ON A RECURRING BASIS   

      AIG carries certain of its financial instruments at fair value. AIG defines the fair value of a financial instrument as the amount that would be
received from the sale of an asset or paid to transfer a liability in an orderly transaction between market participants at the measurement date.   

      The
degree of judgment used in measuring the fair value of financial instruments generally inversely correlates with the level of observable valuation inputs. AIG maximizes the use of
observable inputs and minimizes the use of unobservable inputs when measuring fair value. Financial instruments with quoted prices in active markets generally have more pricing observability and less
judgment is used in measuring fair value. Conversely, financial instruments for which no quoted prices are available have less observability and are measured at fair value using valuation models or
other pricing techniques that require more judgment. Pricing observability is affected by a number of factors, including the type of financial instrument, whether the financial instrument is new to
the market and not yet established, the characteristics specific to the transaction, liquidity and general market conditions.   

FAIR VALUE HIERARCHY   

      Assets and liabilities recorded at fair value in the Consolidated Balance Sheet are measured and classified for disclosure purposes in accordance
with a fair value hierarchy established in U.S. GAAP. The hierarchy consists of three "levels" based on the observability of inputs available in the marketplace used to measure the fair values
as discussed below:   

Level 1:       Fair value measurements that are quoted
prices (unadjusted) in active markets that AIG has the ability to access for identical assets or liabilities. Market price data generally is obtained from exchange or dealer markets. AIG does not
adjust the quoted price for such instruments. Assets and liabilities measured at fair value on a recurring basis and classified as Level 1 include certain government and agency securities,
actively traded listed common stocks and futures and options contracts, most separate account assets and most mutual funds.    
 
  AIG 2011 Form 10-K            241  

Table of Contents   

   American International Group, Inc.  

   NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS    

Level 2:       Fair value measurements based on inputs other
than quoted prices included in Level 1, that are observable for the asset or liability, either directly or indirectly. Level 2 inputs include quoted prices for similar assets and
liabilities in active markets, quoted prices for identical or similar assets or liabilities in markets that are not active, and inputs other than quoted prices that are observable for the asset or
liability, such as interest rates and yield curves that are observable at commonly quoted intervals. Assets and liabilities measured at fair value on a recurring basis and classified as Level 2
generally include certain government and agency securities, most investment-grade and high-yield corporate bonds, certain residential mortgage-backed securities (RMBS), certain commercial
mortgage-backed securities (CMBS) and certain collateralized debt obligations/asset backed securities (CDO/ABS), certain listed equities, state, municipal and provincial obligations, hybrid
securities, certain securities purchased (sold) under agreements to resell (repurchase), certain mutual fund and hedge fund investments, certain interest rate, currency and commodity derivative
contracts, guaranteed investment agreements (GIAs) for the Direct Investment book and other long-term debt.     
            Level 3:       Fair value measurements based on valuation
techniques that use significant inputs that are unobservable. Both observable and unobservable inputs may be used to determine the fair values of positions classified in Level 3. The
circumstances for using these measurements include those in which there is little, if any, market activity for the asset or liability. Therefore, AIG must make certain assumptions as to the inputs a
hypothetical market participant would use to value that asset or liability. In certain cases, the inputs used to measure fair value may fall into different levels of the fair value hierarchy. In such
cases, the level in the fair value hierarchy within which the fair value measurement in its entirety falls is determined based on the lowest level input that is significant to the fair value
measurement in its entirety. AIG's assessment of the significance of a particular input to the fair value measurement in its entirety requires judgment. In making the assessment, AIG considers factors
specific to the asset or liability. Assets and liabilities measured at fair value on a recurring basis and classified as Level 3 include certain RMBS, CMBS and CDO/ABS, certain corporate debt
securities, certain municipal and sovereign debt securities, certain derivative contracts (including the AIGFP super senior credit default swap portfolio), certain hedge fund investments, private
equity and real estate fund investments, direct private equity investments and policyholder contract deposits carried at fair value. AIG's non-financial instrument assets that are measured
at fair value on a non-recurring basis generally are classified as Level 3.    

The
following is a description of the valuation methodologies used for instruments carried at fair value. These methodologies are applied to assets and liabilities across the levels
noted above, and it is the observability of the inputs used that determines the appropriate level in the fair value hierarchy for the respective asset or liability.   

VALUATION METHODOLOGIES OF FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS MEASURED AT FAIR VALUE   

Incorporation of Credit Risk in Fair Value Measurements            

AIG's Own Credit Risk.       Fair value measurements for certain
Direct Investment book debt, GIAs, structured note liabilities and freestanding derivatives, as well as AIGFP derivatives, incorporate AIG's own credit risk by determining the explicit cost for each
counterparty to protect against its net credit exposure to AIG at the balance sheet date by reference to observable AIG CDS or cash bond spreads. A derivative counterparty's net credit exposure to AIG
is determined based on master netting agreements, when applicable, which take into consideration all derivative positions with AIG, as well as collateral posted by AIG with the counterparty at the
balance sheet date.    

Fair
value measurements for embedded policy derivatives and policyholder contract deposits take into consideration that policyholder liabilities are senior in priority to general
creditors of AIG and therefore are much less sensitive to changes in AIG credit default swap or cash issuance spreads.   

242            AIG 2011 Form 10-K  

Table of Contents   

   American International Group, Inc.  

   NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS    

Counterparty Credit Risk.       Fair value measurements for
freestanding derivatives incorporate counterparty credit by determining the explicit cost for AIG to protect against its net credit exposure to each counterparty at the balance sheet date by reference
to observable counterparty CDS spreads, when available. When not available, other directly or indirectly observable credit spreads will be used to derive the best estimates of the counterparty
spreads. AIG's net credit exposure to a counterparty is determined based on master netting agreements, which take into consideration all derivative positions with the counterparty, as well as
collateral posted by the counterparty at the balance sheet date.    

A
CDS is a derivative contract that allows the transfer of third-party credit risk from one party to the other. The buyer of the CDS pays an upfront and/or periodic premium to the
seller. The seller's payment obligation is triggered by the occurrence of a credit event under a specified reference security and is determined by the loss on that specified reference security. The
present value of the amount of the upfront and/or periodic premium therefore represents a market-based expectation of the likelihood that the specified reference party will fail to perform on the
reference obligation, a key market observable indicator of non-performance risk (the CDS spread).   

      Fair
values for fixed maturity securities based on observable market prices for identical or similar instruments implicitly incorporate counterparty credit risk. Fair values for fixed
maturity securities based on internal models incorporate counterparty credit risk by using discount rates that take into consideration cash issuance spreads for similar instruments or other observable
information.   

      The
cost of credit protection is determined under a discounted present value approach considering the market levels for single name CDS spreads for each specific counterparty, the mid
market value of the net exposure (reflecting the amount of protection required) and the weighted average life of the net exposure. CDS spreads are provided to AIG by an independent third party. AIG
utilizes an interest rate based on the benchmark London Interbank Offered Rate (LIBOR) curve to derive its discount rates.   

      While
this approach does not explicitly consider all potential future behavior of the derivative transactions or potential future changes in valuation inputs, AIG believes this approach
provides a reasonable estimate of the fair value of the assets and liabilities, including consideration of the impact of non-performance risk.   

Fixed Maturity Securities   Trading and Available for Sale            

      Whenever available, AIG obtains quoted prices in active markets for identical assets at the balance sheet date to measure fixed maturity
securities at fair value in its trading and available for sale portfolios. Market price data is generally obtained from dealer markets.   

Management
is responsible for the determination of the value of the investments carried at fair value and the supporting methodologies and assumptions. AIG employs independent
third-party valuation service providers to gather, analyze, and interpret market information in order to derive fair value estimates for individual investments, based upon market-accepted
methodologies and assumptions. The methodologies used by these independent third-party valuation services are reviewed and understood by AIG management, via periodic discussion with and information
provided by the valuation services. In addition, as discussed further below, control processes are applied to the fair values received from third-party valuation services to ensure the accuracy of
these values.   

      Valuation
service providers typically obtain data about market transactions and other key valuation model inputs from multiple sources and, through the use of widely accepted valuation
methodologies, which may utilize matrix pricing, financial models, accompanying model inputs and various assumptions, provide a single fair value measurement for individual securities. The inputs used
by the valuation service providers include, but are not limited to, market prices from completed transactions for identical securities and transactions for comparable securities, benchmark yields,
interest rate yield curves, credit spreads, currency rates, quoted prices for similar securities and other market-observable information, as applicable. If fair value is determined using financial
models, these models generally take into account, among other things, market observable information as of the measurement date as well as the specific attributes of the security being valued,
including its term, interest rate,   

  AIG 2011 Form 10-K            243  

Table of Contents   

   American International Group, Inc.  

   NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS    

credit
rating, industry sector, and when applicable, collateral quality and other security or issuer-specific information. When market transactions or other market observable data is limited, the
extent to which judgment is applied in determining fair value is greatly increased.   

      AIG
has control processes designed to ensure that the fair values received from third party valuation services are accurately recorded, that their data inputs and valuation techniques
are appropriate and consistently applied and that the assumptions used appear reasonable and consistent with the objective of determining fair value. AIG assesses the reasonableness of individual
security values received from valuation service providers through various analytical techniques, and has procedures to escalate related questions internally and to the third party valuation services
for resolution. In order to assess the degree of pricing consensus among various valuation services for specific asset types, AIG has conducted comparisons of prices received from available sources.
Management has used these comparisons to establish a hierarchy for the fair values received from third party valuation services to be used for particular security classes. AIG also validates prices
for selected securities through reviews by members of management who have relevant expertise and who are independent of those charged with executing investing transactions.   

When
AIG's third-party valuation service providers are unable to obtain sufficient market observable information upon which to estimate the fair value for a particular security, fair
value is determined either by requesting brokers who are knowledgeable about these securities to provide a price quote, which is generally non-binding, or by employing widely accepted
valuation models. Fair values provided by brokers are subject to similar control processes to those noted above for fair values from third party valuation services, including management reviews. Fair
values determined internally are also subject to management review in order to ensure that valuation models and related inputs are reasonable.   

The
methodology above is relevant for all fixed maturity securities; following are discussions of certain procedures unique to specific classes of securities.   

Fixed Maturity Securities issued by Government Entities           

      For most debt securities issued by government entities, AIG obtains fair value information from independent third-party valuation service
providers, as quoted prices in active markets are generally only available for limited debt securities issued by government entities. The fair values received from these valuation service providers
may be based on a market approach using matrix pricing, which considers a security's relationship to other securities for which quoted prices in an active market may be available, or alternatively
based on an income approach, which uses valuation techniques to convert future cash flows to a single present value amount.   

Fixed Maturity Securities issued by Corporate Entities           

      For most debt securities issued by corporate entities, AIG obtains fair value information from independent third-party valuation service
providers. For certain corporate debt securities, AIG obtains fair value information from brokers. For those corporate debt instruments (for example, private placements) that are not traded in active
markets or that are subject to transfer restrictions, valuations are adjusted to reflect illiquidity and non-transferability, and such adjustments generally are based on available market
evidence. When observable price quotations are not available, fair value is determined based on discounted cash flow models using discount rates based on credit spreads, yields or price levels of
publicly-traded debt of the issuer or other comparable securities, adjusted for illiquidity and structure.   

RMBS, CMBS, CDOs and other ABS           

      Independent third-party valuation service providers also provide fair value information for the majority of AIG investments in RMBS, CMBS, CDOs
and other ABS. Where pricing is not available from valuation service providers, AIG obtains fair value information from brokers. Broker prices may be based on an income approach,   

  244            AIG 2011 Form 10-K  

Table of Contents   

   American International Group, Inc.  

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS    

which
converts expected future cash flows to a single present value amount, with specific consideration of inputs relevant to structured securities, including ratings, collateral types, geographic
concentrations, underlying loan
vintages, loan delinquencies, and weighted average coupons and maturities. Broker prices may also be based on a market approach that considers recent transactions involving identical or similar
securities. When the volume or level of market activity for an investment in RMBS, CMBS, CDOs or other ABS is limited, certain inputs used to determine fair value may not be observable in the market.   

Maiden Lane Interests           

      At their inception, AIG's interests in ML II and ML III were valued and recorded at the transaction prices of $1 billion and
$5 billion, respectively.   

      Subsequently,
AIG's interest in ML III has been valued using a discounted cash flow methodology that (i) uses the estimated future cash flows and the fair value of the ML III
assets, (ii) allocates the estimated future cash flows according to the ML III waterfall, and (iii) determines the discount rate to be applied to AIG's interest in ML III by reference to
the discount rate implied by the estimated value of ML III assets and the estimated future cash flows of AIG's interest in the capital structure. Estimated cash flows and discount rates used in the
valuations are validated, to the extent possible, using market observable information for securities with similar asset pools, structure and terms.   

      The
fair value methodology used since inception and prior to March 31, 2011 for AIG's interest in ML II had used the same discounted cash flow methodology as for ML III. As a
result of the announcement on March 31, 2011 by the FRBNY of its plan to begin selling the assets in the ML II portfolio over time through a competitive sales process, AIG modified its
methodology for estimating the fair value of its interest in ML II to incorporate the assumption of a current liquidation, which (i) uses the estimated fair value of the ML II assets and
(ii) allocates the estimated asset fair value according to the ML II waterfall.   

      AIG
does not believe a change in the fair value methodology used for its interest in ML III is appropriate at this time based on current available information. Other methodologies
employed or assumptions made in determining fair value for these investments could result in amounts that differ significantly from the amounts reported.   

      Adjustments
to the fair value of AIG's interest in ML II are recorded in the Consolidated Statement of Operations in Net investment income for SunAmerica's domestic life insurance
companies. Adjustments to the fair value of AIG's interest in ML III are recorded in the Consolidated Statement of Operations in Net investment income for AIG's Other operations.   

AIG
expects to receive repayment of its initial investment as well as incremental undiscounted cash flows and accrued interest on the Maiden Lane Interests after repayment of the first
priority obligations owed to the FRBNY. On February 8, 2012, the FRBNY announced that the proceeds from the most recent sale of ML II assets would enable the repayment of the entire remaining
outstanding balance of the senior loan from the FRBNY to ML II. AIG therefore, expects to begin receiving repayment of its $1 billion initial investment in ML II, plus accrued interest,
commencing in 2012. Any proceeds in excess of AIG's principal and interest will be allocated five-sixths to the FRBNY and one-sixth to AIG. Under the terms of the Master
Transaction Agreement dated December 8, 2010, among AIG Parent, AM Holdings LLC (formerly known as ALICO Holdings LLC), AIA Aurora LLC, the FRBNY, the Department of the
Treasury, and the Trust, all payments received by AIG from ML II will be required to be used to pay down the liquidation preference of the AIA SPV Preferred Interests. The fair value of AIG's interest
in ML II is most affected by the liquidation proceeds realized by the FRBNY from the sale of the collateral securities. A 10 percent change in the liquidation proceeds realized by the FRBNY
would result in a change of approximately $152 million in the fair value of the ML II interest. The fair value of AIG's interest in ML III is most affected by changes in the discount rates and
changes in the estimated future collateral cash flows used in the valuation. Changes in estimated future cash flows for ML III would be the   

  AIG 2011 Form 10-K            245  

Table of Contents   

   American International Group, Inc.  

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS    

result
of changes in interest rates and their effect on the underlying floating rate securities as well as expectations of defaults, recoveries and prepayments on underlying loans.   

      The
LIBOR interest rate curve changes are determined based on observable prices, interpolated or extrapolated to derive a LIBOR for a specific maturity term as necessary. The spreads
over LIBOR for the Maiden Lane Interests (including collateral-specific credit and liquidity spreads) can change as a result of changes in market expectations about the future performance of these
investments as well as changes in the risk premium that market participants would demand at the time of the transactions.   

   Changes in the discount rate or the estimated future cash flows used in the valuation would alter AIG's estimate of the fair value of AIG's interest in ML III as shown in the
table below.   

If the FRBNY were to announce a plan to liquidate the assets of ML III at their estimated fair values, similar to their disclosed plan for ML II,
the impact of the change in AIG's assumptions would be an increase in the fair value of AIG's interest in ML III by approximately $685 million at December 31, 2011.   

      AIG
believes that the ranges of discount rates used in these analyses are reasonable on the basis of implied spread volatilities of similar collateral securities. The ranges of estimated
future cash flows were determined on the basis of historical variability in the estimated cash flows. Because of these factors, the fair values of the Maiden Lane Interests are likely to vary, perhaps
materially, from the amounts estimated.   

Equity Securities Traded in Active Markets   Trading and Available for Sale            

      Whenever available, AIG obtains quoted prices in active markets for identical assets at the balance sheet date to measure at fair value marketable
equity securities in its trading and available for sale portfolios or in Other invested assets. Market price data is generally obtained from exchange or dealer markets.   

Mortgage and Other Loans Receivable            

      AIG estimates the fair value of mortgage and other loans receivable that are measured at fair value by using dealer quotations, discounted cash
flow analyses and/or internal valuation models. The determination of fair value considers inputs such as interest rate, maturity, the borrower's creditworthiness, collateral, subordination,
guarantees, past-due status, yield curves, credit curves, prepayment rates, market pricing for comparable loans and other relevant factors.   

Other Invested Assets            

      AIG initially estimates the fair value of investments in certain hedge funds, private equity funds and other investment partnerships by reference
to the transaction price. Subsequently, AIG generally obtains the fair value   

  246            AIG 2011 Form 10-K  

Table of Contents   

   American International Group, Inc.  

   NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS    

of
these investments from net asset value information provided by the general partner or manager of the investments, the financial statements of which are generally audited annually. AIG considers
observable market data and performs certain control procedures to validate the appropriateness of using the net asset value as a fair value measurement. The fair values of other investments carried at
fair value, such as direct private equity holdings, are initially determined based on transaction price and are subsequently estimated based on available evidence such as market transactions in
similar instruments and other financing transactions of the issuer, with adjustments made to reflect illiquidity as appropriate.   

Short-term Investments            

For short-term investments that are measured at fair value, the carrying values of these assets approximate fair values because of the
relatively short period of time between origination and expected realization, and their limited exposure to credit risk.   

Securities Purchased Under Agreements to Resell            

      Securities purchased under agreements to resell are generally treated as collateralized receivables. AIG reports certain receivables arising from
securities purchased under agreements to resell in Short-term investments in the Consolidated Balance Sheet. AIG uses market-observable interest rates for receivables measured at fair
value. This methodology considers such factors as the coupon rate, yield curves and other relevant factors.   

Separate Account Assets            

      Separate account assets are composed primarily of registered and unregistered open-end mutual funds that generally trade daily and are
measured at fair value in the manner discussed above for equity securities traded in active markets.   

Freestanding Derivatives            

      Derivative assets and liabilities can be exchange-traded or traded over-the-counter (OTC). AIG generally values
exchange-traded derivatives such as futures and options using quoted prices in active markets for identical derivatives at the balance sheet date.   

      OTC
derivatives are valued using market transactions and other market evidence whenever possible, including market-based inputs to models, model calibration to market clearing
transactions, broker or dealer quotations or alternative pricing sources with reasonable levels of price transparency. When models are used, the selection of a particular model to value an OTC
derivative depends on the contractual terms of, and specific risks inherent in the instrument, as well as the availability of pricing information in the market. AIG generally uses similar models to
value similar instruments. Valuation models require a variety of inputs, including contractual terms, market prices and rates, yield curves, credit curves, measures of volatility, prepayment rates and
correlations of such inputs. For OTC derivatives that trade in liquid markets, such as generic forwards, swaps and options, model inputs can generally be corroborated by observable market data by
correlation or other means, and model selection does not involve significant management judgment.   

      Certain
OTC derivatives trade in less liquid markets with limited pricing information, and the determination of fair value for these derivatives is inherently more difficult. When AIG
does not have corroborating market
evidence to support significant model inputs and cannot verify the model to market transactions, the transaction price may provide the best estimate of fair value. Accordingly, when a pricing model is
used to value such an instrument, the model is adjusted so the model value at inception equals the transaction price. AIG will update valuation inputs in these models only when corroborated by
evidence such as similar market transactions, third party pricing services and/or broker or dealer quotations, or other empirical market data. When appropriate, valuations are adjusted for various
factors such as liquidity, bid/offer spreads and credit considerations. Such adjustments are generally based on available market evidence. In the absence of such evidence, management's best estimate
is used.   

  AIG 2011 Form 10-K            247  

Table of Contents    

   American International Group, Inc.   

   NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS     

Embedded Policy Derivatives            

      Certain variable annuity and equity-indexed annuity and life contracts contain embedded policy derivatives that AIG bifurcates from the host
contracts and accounts for separately at fair value, with changes in fair value recognized in earnings. AIG concluded these contracts contain (i) written option guarantees on minimum
accumulation value, (ii) a series of written options that guarantee withdrawals from the highest anniversary value within a specific period or for life, or (iii) equity-indexed written
options that meet the criteria of derivatives that must be bifurcated.   

      The
fair value of embedded policy derivatives contained in certain variable annuity and equity-indexed annuity and life contracts is measured based on actuarial and capital market
assumptions related to projected cash flows over the expected lives of the contracts. These cash flow estimates primarily include benefits and related fees assessed, when applicable, and incorporate
expectations about policyholder behavior. Estimates of future policyholder behavior are subjective and based primarily on AIG's historical experience.   

      With
respect to embedded policy derivatives in AIG's variable annuity contracts, because of the dynamic and complex nature of the expected cash flows, risk neutral valuations are used.
Estimating the underlying cash flows for these products involves many estimates and judgments, including those regarding expected market rates of return, market volatility, correlations of market
index returns to funds, fund performance, discount rates and policyholder behavior. With respect to embedded policy derivatives in AIG's equity-indexed annuity and life contracts, option pricing
models are used to estimate fair value, taking into account assumptions for future equity index growth rates, volatility of the equity index, future interest rates, and determinations on adjusting the
participation rate and the cap on equity-indexed credited rates in light of market conditions and policyholder behavior assumptions. These methodologies incorporate an explicit risk margin to take
into consideration market participant estimates of projected cash flows and policyholder behavior.   

      AIG
also incorporates its own risk of non-performance in the valuation of the embedded policy derivatives associated with variable annuity and equity- indexed annuity and
life contracts. Historically, the expected cash flows were discounted using the interest rate swap curve (swap curve), which is commonly viewed as being consistent with the credit spreads for
highly-rated financial institutions (S P AA-rated or above). A swap curve shows the fixed-rate leg of a non-complex swap against the floating rate
(e.g. LIBOR) leg of a related tenor. The swap curve was adjusted, as necessary, for anomalies between the swap curve and the U.S. Treasury yield curve. During the fourth quarter of 2010, AIG
revised the non-performance risk adjustment to reflect a market participant's view of SunAmerica's claims paying ability. As a result, in 2010, AIG incorporated an additional spread to the
swap curve used to value embedded policy derivatives, thereby reducing the fair value of the embedded derivative liabilities by $336 million, which is partially offset by $173 million of
DAC amortization.   

AIGFP's Super Senior Credit Default Swap Portfolio            

      Included in Global Capital Markets is the remaining derivatives portfolio of AIGFP. AIG values AIGFP's CDS transactions written on the super
senior risk layers of designated pools of debt securities or loans using internal valuation models, third-party price estimates and market indices. The principal market was determined to be the market
in which super senior credit default swaps of this type and size would be transacted, or have been transacted, with the greatest volume or level of activity. AIG has determined that the principal
market participants, therefore, would consist of other large financial institutions who participate in sophisticated over-the-counter derivatives markets. The specific
valuation methodologies vary based on the nature of the referenced obligations and availability of market prices.   

      The
valuation of the super senior credit derivatives is challenging given the limitation on the availability of market observable information due to the lack of trading and price
transparency in certain structured finance markets. These market conditions have increased the reliance on management estimates and judgments in arriving at an estimate of fair value for financial
reporting purposes. Further, disparities in the valuation methodologies   

  248            AIG 2011 Form 10-K  

Table of Contents   

   American International Group, Inc.  

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS    

employed
by market participants and the varying judgments reached by such participants when assessing volatile markets have increased the likelihood that the various parties to these instruments may
arrive at significantly different estimates as to their fair values.   

      AIG's
valuation methodologies for the super senior credit default swap portfolio have evolved over time in response to market conditions and the availability of market observable
information. AIG has sought to calibrate the methodologies to available market information and to review the assumptions of the methodologies on a regular basis.   

Regulatory capital portfolio:       In the case of credit default swaps written to facilitate regulatory capital relief, AIG estimates the fair value of
these derivatives by considering observable market transactions. The transactions with the most observability are the early terminations of these transactions by counterparties. AIG continues to
reassess the expected maturity of the portfolio. AIGFP has not been required to make any payments as part of terminations of super senior regulatory capital CDSs initiated by counterparties. However,
during the second quarter of 2011, AIGFP terminated mezzanine tranches related to certain terminated super senior regulatory capital trades and made payments which approximated their fair values at
the time of termination.   

      The
regulatory benefit of these transactions for AIGFP's financial institution counterparties is generally derived from the capital regulations promulgated by the Basel Committee on
Banking Supervision, known as Basel I. In December 2010, the Basel Committee on Banking Supervision finalized a new framework for international capital and liquidity standards known as Basel III,
which, when fully implemented, may reduce or eliminate the regulatory benefits to certain counterparties and thus may impact the period of time that such counterparties are expected to hold the
positions. In assessing the fair value of the regulatory capital CDS transactions, AIG also considers other market data, to the extent relevant and available. For further discussion, see
Note 12 herein.   

       Multi-sector CDO portfolios:       AIG uses a modified version of the Binomial Expansion Technique (BET) model to value AIGFP's credit default swap
portfolio written on super senior tranches of multi-sector CDOs of ABS. The BET model was developed in 1996 by a major rating agency to generate expected loss estimates for CDO tranches and derive a
credit rating for those tranches, and remains widely used.   

      AIG
has adapted the BET model to estimate the price of the super senior risk layer or tranche of the CDO. AIG modified the BET model to imply default probabilities from market prices for
the underlying securities and not from rating agency assumptions. To generate the estimate, the model uses the price estimates for the securities
comprising the portfolio of a CDO as an input and converts those estimates to credit spreads over current LIBOR-based interest rates. These credit spreads are used to determine implied probabilities
of default and expected losses on the underlying securities. This data is then aggregated and used to estimate the expected cash flows of the super senior tranche of the CDO.   

      Prices
for the individual securities held by a CDO are obtained in most cases from the CDO collateral managers, to the extent available. CDO collateral managers provided market prices
for 61.7 percent of the underlying securities used in the valuation at December 31, 2011. When a price for an individual security is not provided by a CDO collateral manager, AIG derives
the price through a pricing matrix using prices from CDO collateral managers for similar securities. Matrix pricing is a mathematical technique used principally to value debt securities without
relying exclusively on quoted prices for the specific securities, but rather by relying on the relationship of the security to other benchmark quoted securities. Substantially all of the CDO
collateral managers who provided prices used dealer prices for all or part of the underlying securities, in some cases supplemented by third-party pricing services.   

      The
BET model also uses diversity scores, weighted average lives, recovery rates and discount rates. AIG employs a Monte Carlo simulation to assist in quantifying the effect on the
valuation of the CDO of the unique aspects of the CDO's structure such as triggers that divert cash flows to the most senior part of the capital structure. The Monte Carlo simulation is used to
determine whether an underlying security defaults in a given   

  AIG 2011 Form 10-K            249  

Table of Contents   

   American International Group, Inc.  

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS    

simulation
scenario and, if it does, the security's implied random default time and expected loss. This information is used to project cash flow streams and to determine the expected losses of the
portfolio.   

      In
addition to calculating an estimate of the fair value of the super senior CDO security referenced in the credit default swaps using its internal model, AIG also considers the price
estimates for the super senior CDO securities provided by third parties, including counterparties to these transactions, to validate the results of the model and to determine the best available
estimate of fair value. In determining the fair value of the super senior CDO security referenced in the credit default swaps, AIG uses a consistent process that considers all available pricing data
points and eliminates the use of outlying data points. When pricing data points are within a reasonable range an averaging technique is applied.   

        Corporate debt/Collateralized loan obligation (CLO) portfolios:       In the case of credit default swaps written on portfolios of investment-grade
corporate debt, AIG uses a mathematical model that produces results that are closely aligned with prices received from third parties. This methodology is widely used by other market participants and
uses the current market credit spreads of the names in the portfolios along with the base correlations implied by the current market prices of comparable tranches of the relevant market traded credit
indices as inputs. Given its unique attributes, one transaction, which had represented two percent of the total notional amount of the corporate debt portfolio as of the second quarter of 2011, was
valued using third-party quotations. This transaction matured in the third quarter of 2011.   

      AIG
estimates the fair value of its obligations resulting from credit default swaps written on CLOs to be equivalent to the par value less the current market value of the referenced
obligation. Accordingly, the value is determined by obtaining third-party quotations on the underlying super senior tranches referenced under the credit default swap contract.   

Policyholder Contract Deposits            

      Policyholder contract deposits accounted for at fair value are measured using an earnings approach by taking into consideration the following
factors:   

Current policyholder account values and related surrender charges;     
           The present value of estimated future cash inflows (policy fees) and outflows (benefits and maintenance expenses)
associated with the product using risk neutral valuations, incorporating expectations about policyholder behavior, market returns and other factors; and     
           A risk margin that market participants would require for a market return and the uncertainty inherent in the model inputs.    

The
change in fair value of these policyholder contract deposits is recorded as Policyholder benefits and claims incurred in the Consolidated Statement of Operations.   

Other Long-Term Debt            

      When fair value accounting has been elected, the fair value of non-structured liabilities is generally determined by using market
prices from exchange or dealer markets, when available, or discounting expected cash flows using the appropriate discount rate for the applicable maturity. Such instruments are generally classified in
Level 2 of the fair value hierarchy as substantially all inputs are readily observable. AIG determines the fair value of structured liabilities and hybrid financial instruments (where
performance is linked to structured interest rates, inflation or currency risks) using the appropriate derivative valuation methodology (described above) given the nature of the embedded risk profile.
Such instruments are classified in Level 2 or Level 3 depending on the observability of significant inputs to the model. In addition, adjustments are made to the valuations of both   

  250            AIG 2011 Form 10-K  

Table of Contents   

   American International Group, Inc.  

   NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS    

non-structured
and structured liabilities to reflect AIG's own creditworthiness based on observable credit spreads of AIG.   

Other Liabilities            

      Other liabilities measured at fair value include certain securities sold under agreements to repurchase and certain securities and spot
commodities sold but not yet purchased. Liabilities arising from securities sold under agreements to repurchase are generally treated as collateralized borrowings. AIG estimates the fair value of
liabilities arising under these agreements by using market-observable interest rates. This methodology considers such factors as the coupon rate, yield curves and other relevant factors. Fair values
for securities sold but not yet purchased are based on current market prices. Fair values of spot commodities sold but not yet purchased are based on current market prices of reference spot futures
contracts traded on exchanges.   

  AIG 2011 Form 10-K            251  

Table of Contents   

   American International Group, Inc.  

   NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS    

ASSETS AND LIABILITIES MEASURED AT FAIR VALUE ON A RECURRING BASIS   

The following table presents information about assets and liabilities measured at fair value on a recurring basis and indicates the level of the fair value measurement based on
the levels of the inputs used:   

252            AIG 2011 Form 10-K  

Table of Contents   

   American International Group, Inc.  

   NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS    

AIG 2011 Form 10-K            253  

Table of Contents   

   American International Group, Inc.  

   NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS    

(a)       Represents netting of derivative exposures covered by a qualifying master netting agreement.   
       (b)      Represents cash collateral posted and received. Securities collateral posted for derivative transactions that is reflected in Fixed
maturity securities in the Consolidated Balance Sheet, and collateral received, not reflected in the Consolidated Balance Sheet, were $1.8 billion and $100 million, respectively, at
December 31, 2011 and $1.4 billion and $109 million, respectively, at December 31, 2010.   
       (c)      Included in Level 1 are $12.4 billion and $11.1 billion at December 31, 2011 and December 31,
2010, respectively, of AIA shares publicly traded on the Hong Kong Stock Exchange. Approximately 3 percent and 5 percent of the fair value of the assets recorded as Level 3
relates to various private equity, real estate, hedge fund and fund-of-funds investments that are consolidated by AIG at December 31, 2011 and December 31, 2010,
respectively. AIG's ownership in these funds represented 57.3 percent, or $0.7 billion, of Level 3 assets at December 31, 2011 and 68.6 percent, or
$1.3 billion, of Level 3 assets at December 31, 2010.   
       (d)      Included in Level 2 is the fair value of $0.1 billion and $1.6 billion at December 31, 2011 and
December 31, 2010, respectively, of securities purchased under agreements to resell.   
       (e)      Included in Level 3 is the fair value derivative liability of $3.2 billion and $3.7 billion at
December 31, 2011 and December 31, 2010, respectively, on the AIGFP super senior credit default swap portfolio.   
       (f)      Includes GIAs, notes, bonds, loans and mortgages payable.   
       (g)      Included in Level 2 is the fair value of $0.6 billion, $144 million and $6 million at December 31,
2011 of securities sold under agreements to repurchase, securities and spot commodities sold but not yet purchased and trust deposits and deposits due to banks and other depositors, respectively.
Included in Level 2 is the fair value of $2.1 billion, $94 million and $15 million at December 31, 2010 of securities sold under agreements to repurchase, securities
and spot commodities sold but not yet purchased and trust deposits and deposits due to banks and other depositors, respectively.    

TRANSFERS OF LEVEL 1 AND LEVEL 2 ASSETS AND LIABILITIES   

      AIG's policy is to record transfers of assets and liabilities between Level 1 and Level 2 at their fair values as of the end of each
reporting period, consistent with the date of the determination of fair value. Assets are transferred out of Level 1 when they are no longer transacted with sufficient frequency and volume in
an active market. During the year ended December 31, 2011, AIG transferred certain assets from Level 1 to Level 2, including approximately $1.2 billion of investments in
securities issued by the U.S. government that are no longer actively traded and approximately $1.2 billion of investments in securities issued by Non-U.S. governments. Conversely,
assets are transferred from Level 2 to Level 1 when transaction volume and frequency are indicative of an active market. AIG had no significant transfers from Level 2 to
Level 1 during the twelve months ended December 31, 2011.   

  254            AIG 2011 Form 10-K  

Table of Contents    

   American International Group, Inc.   

   NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS     

CHANGES IN LEVEL 3 RECURRING FAIR VALUE MEASUREMENTS   

The following tables present changes during 2011 and 2010 in Level 3 assets and liabilities measured at fair value on a recurring basis, and the realized and unrealized
gains (losses) recorded in the Consolidated Statement of
Operations, during 2011 and 2010 related to the Level 3 assets and liabilities that remained in the Consolidated Balance Sheet at December 31, 2011 and 2010:   

AIG 2011 Form 10-K            255  

Table of Contents   

   American International Group, Inc.  

   NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS    

(a)       Total Level 3 derivative exposures have been netted in these tables for presentation purposes only.   
       (b)      In 2011, AIG made revisions to the presentation to include income from ML III. The prior periods have been revised to conform to the
current period presentation.   
       (c)      Includes GIAs, notes, bonds, loans and mortgages payable.    

  256            AIG 2011 Form 10-K  

Table of Contents   

   American International Group, Inc.  

   NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS    

Net realized and unrealized gains and losses related to Level 3 items shown above are reported in the Consolidated Statement of Operations as follows:            

AIG 2011 Form 10-K            257  

Table of Contents   

   American International Group, Inc.  

   NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS    

The following table presents the gross components of purchases, sales, issuances and settlements, net, shown above:            

(a)       There were no issuances during year ended December 31, 2011.   
       (b)      Includes GIAs, notes, bonds, loans and mortgages payable.    

Both observable and unobservable inputs may be used to determine the fair values of positions classified in Level 3 in the tables above. As
a result, the unrealized gains (losses) on instruments held at December 31, 2011 and 2010 may include changes in fair value that were attributable to both observable (e.g., changes in
market interest rates) and unobservable inputs (e.g., changes in unobservable long-dated volatilities).   

  258            AIG 2011 Form 10-K  

Table of Contents    

   American International Group, Inc.   

   NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS     

     Transfers of Level 3 Assets and Liabilities       

      AIG's policy is to transfer assets and liabilities into Level 3 when a significant input cannot be corroborated with market observable
data. This may include circumstances in which market activity has dramatically decreased and transparency to underlying inputs cannot be observed, current prices are not available and substantial
price variances in quotations among market participants exist.   

      In
certain cases, the inputs used to measure the fair value may fall into different levels of the fair value hierarchy. In such cases, the level in the fair value hierarchy within which
the fair value measurement in its entirety falls is determined based on the lowest level input that is significant to the fair value measurement. AIG's assessment of
the significance of a particular input to the fair value measurement in its entirety requires judgment. In making the assessment, AIG considers factors specific to the asset or liability.   

AIG's
policy is to record transfers of assets and liabilities into or out of Level 3 at their fair values as of the end of each reporting period, consistent with the date of the
determination of fair value. As a result, the Net realized and unrealized gains (losses) included in income or other comprehensive income and as shown in the table above excludes $68 million of
net losses related to assets and liabilities transferred into Level 3 during 2011, and includes $45 million of net gains related to assets and liabilities transferred out of
Level 3 during 2011.   

    Transfers of Level 3 Assets      

      During the year ended December 31, 2011, transfers into Level 3 included certain RMBS, CMBS, ABS, private placement corporate debt
and certain private equity funds and hedge funds. The transfers into Level 3 of investments in certain RMBS, CMBS and certain ABS were due to a decrease in market transparency, downward credit
migration and an overall increase in price disparity for certain individual security types. The downward credit migration in part reflected AIG's move to using composite credit ratings for these
securities commencing in 2011, in order to reduce reliance on any single rating agency. Transfers into Level 3 for private placement corporate debt and certain other ABS were primarily the
result of AIG adjusting matrix pricing information downward to better reflect the additional risk premium associated with those securities that AIG believes was not captured in the matrix. Certain
private equity funds and hedge funds were transferred into Level 3 due to these investments being carried at fair value and no longer being accounted for using the equity method of accounting,
consistent with the changes to AIG's ownership and lack of ability to exercise significant influence over the respective investments. Other private equity funds and hedge funds transferred into
Level 3 represented interests in hedge funds carried at fair value with limited market activity due to fund-imposed redemption restrictions.   

      Assets
are transferred out of Level 3 when circumstances change such that significant inputs can be corroborated with market observable data. This may be due to a significant
increase in market activity for the asset, a specific event, one or more significant input(s) becoming observable or when a long-term interest rate significant to a valuation becomes
short-term and thus observable. In addition, transfers out of Level 3 also occur when investments are no longer carried at fair value as the result of a change in the applicable
accounting methodology, given changes in the nature and extent of AIG's ownership interest. During the year ended December 31, 2011, transfers out of Level 3 primarily related to
investments in private placement corporate debt, investments in certain CMBS and ABS and certain private equity funds and hedge funds. Transfers out of Level 3 for private placement corporate
debt and for certain ABS were primarily the result of AIG using observable pricing information or a third party pricing quotation that appropriately reflects the fair value of those securities,
without the need for adjustment based on AIG's own assumptions regarding the characteristics of a specific security or the current liquidity in the market. Transfers out of Level 3 for certain
CMBS and certain other ABS investments were primarily due to increased observations of market transactions and price information for those securities. Certain private equity funds and hedge funds were
transferred out of Level 3 due to these investments no longer being carried at fair value, based on AIG's use of the equity method of accounting consistent with the changes to AIG's ownership
and ability to exercise significant influence over the respective investments.   

  AIG 2011 Form 10-K            259  

Table of Contents   

   American International Group, Inc.  

   NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS    

    Transfers of Level 3 Liabilities      

      During the year ended December 31, 2011, there were no significant transfers into Level 3 liabilities. As AIG presents carrying
values of its derivative positions on a net basis in the table above, transfers out of Level 3 liabilities, which totaled approximately $133 million for the year ended
December 31, 2011, primarily related to certain derivative assets transferred into Level 3 because of the lack of observable inputs on certain forward commitments. Other transfers out of
Level 3 liabilities were due to movement in market variables.   

      AIG
uses various hedging techniques to manage risks associated with certain positions, including those classified within Level 3. Such techniques may include the purchase or sale
of financial instruments that are classified within Level 1 and/or Level 2. As a result, the realized and unrealized gains (losses) for assets and liabilities classified within
Level 3 presented in the table above do not reflect the related realized or unrealized gains (losses) on hedging instruments that are classified within Level 1 and/or Level 2.   

INVESTMENTS IN CERTAIN ENTITIES CARRIED AT FAIR VALUE USING NET ASSET VALUE PER SHARE   

   The following table includes information related to AIG's investments in certain other invested assets, including private equity funds, hedge funds and other alternative
investments that calculate net asset value per share (or its equivalent). For these investments, which are measured at fair value on a recurring or non-recurring basis, AIG uses the net
asset value per share as a practical expedient to measure fair value.   

December 31, 2011    
     
  December 31, 2010   

(in millions)    
     
  Investment Category Includes   
     
  Fair Value 
Using Net 
Asset Value   
     
  Unfunded 
Commitments   
     
  Fair Value 
Using Net 
Asset Value   
     
  Unfunded 
Commitments   

Investment Category   

Private equity funds:   

Leveraged buyout  
     
      Debt and/or equity investments made as part of a transaction in which assets of mature companies are acquired from the current
shareholders, typically with the use of financial leverage  
     
   $  
    
3,185   
     
   $  
    
945   
     
   $  
   
3,137  
     
   $  
   
1,151  

Non-U.S.  
     
      Investments that focus primarily on Asian and European based buyouts, expansion capital, special situations, turnarounds, venture
capital, mezzanine and distressed opportunities strategies  

165   

57   

172  

67  

Venture capital  
     
      Early-stage, high-potential, growth companies expected to generate a return through an eventual realization event, such as an
initial public offering or sale of the company  

316   

39   

325  

42  

Distressed  
     
      Securities of companies that are already in default, under bankruptcy protection, or troubled  

182   

42   

258  

67  

Other  
     
      Real estate, energy, multi-strategy, mezzanine, and industry-focused strategies  

252   

98   

373  

147  

Total private equity funds  

4,100   

1,181   

4,265  

1,474  

260            AIG 2011 Form 10-K  

Table of Contents   

   American International Group, Inc.  

   NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS    

*       Includes investments of entities classified as held for sale of $415 million at December 31, 2010.    

      At December 31, 2011, private equity fund investments included above are not redeemable during the lives of the funds and have expected
remaining lives that extend in some cases more than 10 years. At that date, 32 percent of
the total above had expected remaining lives of less than three years, 55 percent between three and seven years and 13 percent between seven and 10 years. Expected lives are based
upon legal maturity, which can be extended at the fund manager's discretion, typically in one-year increments.   

      At
December 31, 2011, hedge fund investments included above are redeemable monthly (9 percent), quarterly (53 percent), semi-annually (10 percent)
and annually (28 percent), with redemption notices ranging from 1 day to 180 days. More than 79 percent require redemption notices of less than 90 days. Investments
representing approximately 47 percent of the value of the hedge fund investments cannot be redeemed, either in whole or in part, because the investments include various restrictions. The
majority of these restrictions were put in place prior to 2009 and do not have stated end dates. The restrictions that have pre-defined end dates are generally expected to be lifted by the
end of 2012. The partial restrictions relate to certain hedge funds that hold at least one investment that the fund manager deems to be illiquid. In order to treat investors fairly and to accommodate
subsequent subscription and redemption requests, the fund manager isolates these illiquid assets from the rest of the fund until the assets become liquid.   

FAIR VALUE MEASUREMENTS ON A NON-RECURRING BASIS   

      AIG also measures the fair value of certain assets on a non-recurring basis, generally quarterly, annually or when events or changes
in circumstances indicate that the carrying amount of the assets may not be recoverable. These assets include cost and equity-method investments, life settlement contracts, flight equipment primarily
under operating leases, collateral securing foreclosed loans and real estate and other fixed assets, goodwill and   

  AIG 2011 Form 10-K            261  

Table of Contents   

   American International Group, Inc.  

   NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS    

other
intangible assets. AIG uses a variety of techniques to measure the fair value of these assets when appropriate, as described below:   

Cost and Equity-Method Investments:       When AIG determines that
the carrying value of these assets may not be recoverable, AIG records the assets at fair value with the loss recognized in earnings. In such cases, AIG measures the fair value of these assets using
the techniques discussed above in Valuation Methodologies of Financial Instruments Measured at Fair Value   Other Invested Assets.     
            Life Settlement Contracts:       AIG measures the fair value of
individual life settlement contracts (which are included in Other invested assets) whenever the carrying value plus the undiscounted future costs that are expected to be incurred to keep the life
settlement contract in force exceed the expected proceeds from the contract. In those situations, the fair value is determined on a discounted cash flow basis, incorporating current life expectancy
assumptions. The discount rate incorporates current information about market interest rates, the credit exposure to the insurance company that issued the life settlement contract and AIG's estimate of
the risk margin an investor in the contracts would require.     
            Flight Equipment Primarily Under Operating Leases:       AIG
evaluates quarterly the need to perform a recoverability assessment of held for use aircraft considering applicable accounting requirements and performs this assessment at least annually for all
aircraft in the fleet. When AIG determines that the carrying value of its commercial aircraft may not be recoverable, AIG records the aircraft at fair value with the loss recognized in earnings. The
impairment assessment involves a two-step process in which an initial assessment for potential impairment is performed whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate an aircraft's
carrying amount may not be recoverable. If potential impairment is present, undiscounted cash flows are compared to the carrying value and, in the event of a cash flow shortfall, the amount of
impairment is measured and recorded. AIG measures the fair value of its commercial aircraft using an income approach based on the present value of all cash flows from existing contractual and
projected lease payments for the period extending to the end of the aircraft's economic life in its highest and best use configuration, plus its disposition value based on expectations of a market
participant.     
            Collateral Securing Foreclosed Loans on Real Estate and Other Fixed
Assets:       When AIG takes collateral in connection with foreclosed loans, AIG generally bases its estimate of fair value on the price that would be received in a
current transaction to sell the asset by itself, by reference to observable transactions for similar assets.     
            Goodwill:       AIG tests goodwill for impairment annually or more
frequently whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate the carrying amount of goodwill may not be recoverable. When AIG determines that goodwill may be impaired, AIG uses techniques including
market-based earning multiples of peer companies, discounted expected future cash flows, appraisals, or, in the case of reporting units being considered for sale, third-party indications of fair value
of the reporting unit, if available, to determine the amount of any impairment.     
            Long-Lived Assets:       AIG tests its
long-lived assets for impairment whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying amount of a long-lived asset may not be recoverable. AIG measures the
fair value of long-lived assets based on an in-use premise that considers the same factors used to estimate the fair value of its real estate and other fixed assets under an
in-use premise.     
            Businesses Held for Sale:       When AIG determines that a business
qualifies as held for sale and AIG's carrying amount is greater than the expected sale price less cost to sell, AIG records an impairment loss for the difference.    

See
Note 2 herein for additional information about how AIG tests various asset classes for impairment.   

262            AIG 2011 Form 10-K  

Table of Contents   

   American International Group, Inc.  

   NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS    

The following table presents assets (held as of the dates presented, but excluding discontinued operations) measured at fair value on a non-recurring basis at the
time of impairment and the related impairment charges recorded during the periods presented:   

*       Aircraft impairment charges include fair value adjustments on aircraft.    

      Impairment charges shown above for the 12 months ended December 31, 2010 exclude a $4.6 billion of goodwill impairment
charges associated with the sales of ALICO and AIG Star and AIG Edison, all of which are reported in discontinued operations.   

During
2009, AIG recognized goodwill impairment charges primarily in the Institutional Asset Management business. These impairment charges related to a significant decline in certain
consolidated warehoused investments as well as the consideration of recent transaction activity. AIG also recognized impairment charges related to certain investment real estate, proprietary real
estate, private equity investments and other long-lived assets.   

FAIR VALUE OPTION   

Under the fair value option, AIG may elect to measure at fair value financial assets and financial liabilities that are not otherwise required to
be carried at fair value. Subsequent changes in fair value for designated items are reported in earnings.   

  AIG 2011 Form 10-K            263  

Table of Contents   

   American International Group, Inc.  

   NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS    

The following table presents the gains or losses recorded related to the eligible instruments for which AIG elected the fair value option:   

(a)       Includes GIAs, notes, bonds, loans and mortgages payable.   
       (b)      Excludes discontinued operations. For instruments required to be carried at fair value, AIG recognized gains of $1.3 billion,
$4.9 billion and $3.8 billion for the years ended December 31, 2011, 2010 and 2009, respectively, that were primarily due to changes in the fair value of derivatives, trading
securities and certain other invested assets for which the fair value option was not elected.    

      Interest income and expense and dividend income on assets and liabilities elected under the fair value option are recognized and classified in the
Consolidated Statement of Operations depending on the nature of the instrument and related market conventions. For Direct Investment book-related activity, interest, dividend income and
interest expense are included in Other income. Otherwise, interest and dividend income are included in Net investment income in the Consolidated Statement of Operations. Gains and losses on AIG's
Maiden Lane Interests are recorded in Net investment income. See Note 2(a) herein for additional information about AIG's policies for recognition, measurement, and disclosure of interest and
dividend income and interest expense.   

      During
2011, 2010 and 2009, AIG recognized gains of $420 million and losses of $779 million and $86 million, respectively, attributable to the observable effect of
changes in credit spreads on AIG's own liabilities for which the fair value option was elected. AIG calculates the effect of these credit spread changes using discounted cash flow techniques that
incorporate current market interest rates, AIG's observable credit spreads on these liabilities and other factors that mitigate the risk of nonperformance such as cash collateral posted.   

The following table presents the difference between fair values and the aggregate contractual principal amounts of mortgage and other loans receivable and long-term
borrowings for which the fair value option was elected:   

*       Includes GIAs, notes, bonds, loans and mortgages payable.    

  264            AIG 2011 Form 10-K  

Table of Contents   

   American International Group, Inc.  

   NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS    

      At December 31, 2011 and 2010, there were no significant mortgage or other loans receivable for which the fair value option was elected
that were 90 days or more past due or in non-accrual status.   

FAIR VALUE INFORMATION ABOUT FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS NOT MEASURED AT FAIR VALUE   

      Information regarding the estimation of fair value for financial instruments not carried at fair value (excluding insurance contracts and lease
contracts) is discussed below:   

Mortgage and other loans receivable:       Fair values of loans on
real estate and other loans receivable were estimated for disclosure purposes using discounted cash flow calculations based upon discount rates that AIG believes market participants would use in
determining the price that they would pay for such assets. For certain loans, AIG's current incremental lending rates for similar type loans is used as the discount rate, as it is believed that this
rate approximates the rates that market participants would use. The fair values of policy loans are generally estimated based on unpaid principal amount as of each reporting date or, in some cases,
based on the present value of the loans using a discounted cash flow model. No consideration is given to credit risk as policy loans are effectively collateralized by the cash surrender value of the
policies.     
            Other Invested Assets:       The majority of Other invested assets
that are not measured at fair value represent investments in life settlement contracts. The fair value of life settlement contracts included in Other invested assets is determined on a discounted cash
flow basis, incorporating current life expectancy assumptions.     
            Cash and short-term investments:       The carrying
values of these assets approximate fair values because of the relatively short period of time between origination and expected realization, and their limited exposure to credit risk.    
            Policyholder contract deposits associated with investment-type
contracts:       Fair values for policyholder contract deposits associated with investment-type contracts not accounted for at fair value were estimated for
disclosure purposes using discounted cash flow calculations based upon interest rates currently being offered for similar contracts with maturities consistent with those remaining for the contracts
being valued. Where no similar contracts are being offered, the discount rate is the appropriate tenor swap rate (if available) or current risk-free interest rate consistent with the
currency in which the cash flows are denominated.     
            Long-term debt:       Fair values of these obligations
were determined for disclosure purposes by reference to quoted market prices, where available and appropriate, or discounted cash flow calculations based upon AIG's current market-observable
implicit-credit-spread rates for similar types of borrowings with maturities consistent with those remaining for the debt being valued.    

The following table presents the carrying value and estimated fair value of AIG's financial instruments not measured at fair value:   

AIG 2011 Form 10-K            265  

Table of Contents    

   American International Group, Inc.   

   NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS     

7. INVESTMENTS    

SECURITIES AVAILABLE FOR SALE AND OTHER INVESTED ASSETS CARRIED AT FAIR VALUE   

The following table presents the amortized cost or cost and fair value of AIG's available for sale securities and other invested assets carried at fair
value:   

(a)      Represents the amount of other-than-temporary impairment losses recognized in Accumulated other comprehensive
income. This amount includes unrealized gains and losses on impaired securities relating to changes in the value of such securities subsequent to the impairment measurement
date.    

266            AIG 2011 Form 10-K  

Table of Contents   

American International Group, Inc.  

   NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS    

(b)      At December 31, 2011 and 2010, bonds available for sale held by AIG that were below investment grade or not rated totaled
$24.2 billion and $18.6 billion, respectively.   
       (c)      Represents private equity and hedge fund investments carried at fair value for which unrealized gains and losses are required to be
recognized in other comprehensive income.   
       (d)      Excludes $80.5 billion of available for sale securities at fair value from businesses held for sale at December 31,
2010. Net unrealized gain attributable to businesses held for sale totaled $604 million at December 31, 2010. See Note 4 herein.    

During 2011, Chartis entered into financing transactions using municipal bonds to support statutory capital by generating taxable income. In these
transactions, certain available for sale high grade municipal bonds were loaned to counterparties, primarily commercial banks and brokerage firms, who receive the tax-exempt income from
the bonds. In return, the counterparties are required to pay Chartis an income stream equal to the bond coupon of the loaned securities, plus a fee. To secure their borrowing of the securities,
counterparties are required to post liquid collateral (such as high quality fixed maturity securities and cash) equal to at least 102 percent of the fair value of the loaned securities to
third-party custodians for Chartis' benefit in the event of default by the counterparties. The collateral is maintained in a third-party custody account and is adjusted daily based on daily fair value
measurements from a third-party pricing source. Chartis is not permitted to sell, repledge or otherwise control the collateral unless an event of default by the counterparties occurs. At the
termination of these transactions, Chartis and its counterparties are obligated to return the collateral maintained in the third-party custody account and the identical municipal bonds loaned,
respectively. These transactions are accounted for as secured financing arrangements. Under these secured financing arrangements, securities available for sale with a fair value of $2.3 billion
at December 31, 2011 were loaned to counterparties against collateral equal to at least 102 percent of the fair value of the loaned securities.   

Unrealized Losses on Securities Available for Sale            

   The following table summarizes the fair value and gross unrealized losses on AIG's available for sale securities, aggregated by major investment category and length of time
that individual securities have been in a continuous unrealized loss position:   

AIG 2011 Form 10-K            267  

Table of Contents   

   American International Group, Inc.  

   NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS    

*      Excludes fixed maturity and equity securities of businesses held for sale. See Note 4 herein.    

      At December 31, 2011, AIG held 7,582 and 304 individual fixed maturity and equity securities, respectively, that were in an unrealized loss
position, of which 2,045 individual securities were in a continuous unrealized loss position for longer than 12 months. AIG did not recognize the unrealized losses in earnings on these fixed
maturity securities at December 31, 2011, because management neither intends to sell the securities nor does it believe that it is more likely than not that it will be required to sell these
securities before recovery of their amortized cost basis. Furthermore, management expects to recover the entire amortized cost basis of these securities. In performing this evaluation, management
considered the recovery periods for securities in previous periods of broad market declines. For fixed maturity securities with significant declines, management performed fundamental credit analysis
on a security-by-security basis, which included consideration of credit enhancements, expected defaults on underlying collateral, review of relevant industry analyst reports
and forecasts and other available market data.   

Contractual Maturities of Securities Available for Sale            

The following table presents the amortized cost and fair value of fixed maturity securities available for sale by contractual maturity:   

268            AIG 2011 Form 10-K  

Table of Contents   

   American International Group, Inc.  

   NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS    

Actual maturities may differ from contractual maturities because certain borrowers have the right to call or prepay certain obligations with or
without call or prepayment penalties.   

TRADING SECURITIES   

   The following table presents the fair value of AIG's trading securities:   

*      Primarily United Kingdom and European structured products.    

OTHER INVESTED ASSETS   

   The following table summarizes Other invested assets:   

(a)      Includes hedge funds, private equity funds, affordable housing partnerships and other investment
partnerships.   
       (b)      Net of accumulated depreciation of $428 million and $536 million in 2011 and 2010,
respectively.   
       (c)      Consist primarily of SunAmerica investments in aircraft equipment held in trusts.    
  AIG 2011 Form 10-K            269  

Table of Contents    

   American International Group, Inc.   

   NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS     

Investments in Life Settlement Contracts            

      During 2011, 2010 and 2009, income recognized on life settlement contracts was $320 million, $213 million and $106 million,
respectively, and is included in Net investment income in the Consolidated Statement of Operations. AIG's life settlement contracts reported above are monitored for impairment on a
contract-by-contract basis quarterly. Impairment charges on life settlement contracts included in net realized capital gains (losses) totaled $312 million,
$74 million, and $79 million in 2011, 2010 and 2009, respectively.   

   The following table presents further information regarding life settlement contracts:   

At December 31, 2011, the anticipated life insurance premiums required to keep the life settlement contracts in force, payable in the next
12 months ending December 31, 2012 and the four succeeding years ending December 31, 2016 are $559 million, $573 million, $575 million, $581 million
and $571 million, respectively.   

Other Invested Assets   Carried at Fair Value            

      All of the equity investments carried at fair value are subject to other-than-temporary impairment evaluation (see below
for discussion on evaluating equity investments for other-than-temporary impairment). The gross unrealized loss recorded in Accumulated other comprehensive income on such
investments was $269 million and $60 million at December 31, 2011 and 2010, respectively, the majority of which pertains to investments in private equity funds and hedge funds
that have been in continuous unrealized loss position for less than 12 months.   

Other Invested Assets   Equity Method Investments            

      At December 31, 2011, AIG had a 33 percent interest in AIA, which AIG is accounting for under the fair value option. AIG's equity
method investments include certain investment partnerships in which AIG holds in the aggregate a five percent or greater interest or in which AIG has more than a minor influence over the operations of
the investee, and certain other strategic investments. Dividends received from AIG's other strategic investments were $17 million, $25 million and $12 million for the years ended
December 31, 2011, 2010, and 2009, respectively. The undistributed earnings of other strategic investments in which AIG's ownership interest is less than 50 percent were
$9 million, $8 million and $7 million at December 31, 2011, 2010, and 2009, respectively.   

   The following table presents the carrying value and ownership percentage of AIA and all other equity method investments:   

270            AIG 2011 Form 10-K  

Table of Contents   

   American International Group, Inc.  

   NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS    

Summarized Financial Information of AIA           

   The following is summarized financial information of AIA:   

Substantially all of AIA's assets consist of financial investments and deferred acquisition and origination costs and substantially all of its
liabilities consist of insurance- and investment-contract-related liabilities.   

      Summarized
financial information for AIA was as of and for the year ended November 30, 2011. AIA was consolidated through October 28, 2010. As a result, comparable amounts
for 2010 are not being presented.   

Summarized Financial Information of Other Equity Method Investees           

The following is the aggregated summarized financial information of AIG's other equity method investees:   

Summarized financial information for these equity method investees may be presented on a lag, due to the unavailability of information for the
investees at the respective balance sheet date, and is included for the periods in which AIG held an equity method ownership interest. Summarized financial information for entities that have been
divested or are held-for-sale is not included in the table above.   

  AIG 2011 Form 10-K            271  

Table of Contents   

   American International Group, Inc.  

   NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS    

NET INVESTMENT INCOME   

The following table presents the components of Net investment income:   

*      Includes hedge funds, private equity funds and affordable housing partnerships.    

NET REALIZED CAPITAL GAINS AND LOSSES   

   The following table presents the components of Net realized capital gains (losses) and the increase (decrease) in unrealized appreciation of AIG's available for sale
securities:   

*      Excludes net unrealized gains attributable to businesses held for sale of $604 million and $925 million at
December 31, 2010 and December 31, 2009, respectively.    

  272            AIG 2011 Form 10-K  

Table of Contents   

   American International Group, Inc.  

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS    

   The following table presents the gross realized gains and gross realized losses from sales or redemptions of AIG's available for sale
securities:   

For the year ended December 31, 2011, 2010 and 2009 the aggregate fair value of available for sale securities sold was
$44.0 billion, $56.0 billion and $33.7 billion, respectively.   

Evaluating Investments for Other-Than-Temporary Impairments            

      On April 1, 2009, AIG adopted prospectively an accounting standard addressing the evaluation of fixed maturity securities for
other-than-temporary impairments. These requirements have significantly altered AIG's policies and procedures for determining impairment charges recognized through earnings.
The new standard requires a company to recognize the credit component (a credit impairment) of an other-than-temporary impairment of a fixed maturity security in earnings and
the non-credit component in Accumulated other comprehensive income (loss) when the company does not intend to sell the security or it is more likely than not that the company will not be
required to sell the security prior to recovery. The standard also changes the threshold for determining when an other-than-temporary impairment has occurred on a fixed
maturity security with respect to intent and ability to hold the security until recovery and requires additional disclosures. A credit impairment, which is recognized in earnings when it occurs, is
the difference between the amortized cost of the fixed maturity security and the estimated present value of cash flows expected to be collected (recovery value), as determined by management. The
difference between fair value and amortized cost that is not related to a credit impairment is recognized as a separate component of Accumulated other comprehensive income (loss). AIG refers to both
credit impairments and impairments recognized as a result of intent to sell as "impairment charges." The impairment model for equity securities was not affected by the standard.   

Impairment Policy   Effective April 1, 2009 and Thereafter           

Fixed Maturity Securities            

      If AIG intends to sell a fixed maturity security or it is more likely than not that AIG will be required to sell a fixed maturity
security before recovery of its amortized cost basis and the fair value of the security is below amortized cost, an other-than-temporary impairment has occurred and the
amortized cost is written down to current fair value, with a corresponding charge to earnings.   

      For
all other fixed maturity securities for which a credit impairment has occurred, the amortized cost is written down to the estimated recovery value with a corresponding charge to
earnings. Changes in fair value compared to recovery value, if any, is charged to unrealized appreciation (depreciation) of fixed maturity investments on which
other-than-temporary credit impairments were taken (a component of Accumulated other comprehensive income (loss)).   

When
assessing AIG's intent to sell a fixed maturity security, or whether it is more likely than not that AIG will be required to sell a fixed maturity security before recovery of its
amortized cost basis, management evaluates relevant facts and circumstances including, but not limited to, decisions to reposition AIG's investment portfolio, sales of securities to meet cash flow
needs and sales of securities to take advantage of favorable pricing.   

  AIG 2011 Form 10-K            273  

Table of Contents   

   American International Group, Inc.  

   NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS    

      AIG
considers severe price declines in its assessment of potential credit impairments. AIG may also modify its modeled outputs for certain securities when it determines that price
declines are indicative of factors not comprehended by the cash flow models.   

      In
periods subsequent to the recognition of an other-than-temporary impairment charge for available for sale fixed maturity securities that is not foreign
exchange related, AIG generally prospectively accretes into earnings the difference between the new amortized cost and the expected undiscounted recovery value over the remaining expected holding
period of the security.   

Credit Impairments            

The following table presents a rollforward of the credit impairments recognized in earnings for available for sale fixed maturity securities held by
AIG      (a)      :   

(a)      Includes structured, corporate, municipal and sovereign fixed maturity securities.   
       (b)      Represents accretion recognized due to changes in cash flows expected to be collected over the remaining expected term of the credit
impaired securities as well as the accretion due to the passage of time.   
       (c)      Reflects the deconsolidation of AIA and sale of ALICO and AGF in 2010.    

      In assessing whether a credit impairment has occurred for a structured fixed maturity security, AIG performs evaluations of expected future cash
flows. Certain critical assumptions are made with respect to the performance of the securities.   

      When
estimating future cash flows for a structured fixed maturity security (e.g., RMBS, CMBS, CDO, ABS) management considers historical performance of underlying assets and
available market information as well as bond-specific structural considerations, such as credit enhancement and priority of payment structure of the security. In addition, the process of
estimating future cash flows includes, but is not limited to, the following critical inputs, which vary by asset class:   

current delinquency rates;     
           expected default rates and the timing of such defaults;    

274            AIG 2011 Form 10-K  

Table of Contents   

American International Group, Inc.  

   NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS    

loss severity and the timing of any recovery; and    
           expected prepayment speeds.    

For
corporate, municipal and sovereign fixed maturity securities determined to be credit impaired, management considers the fair value as the recovery value when available information
does not indicate that another value is more relevant or reliable. When management identifies information that supports a recovery value other than the fair value, the determination of a recovery
value considers scenarios specific to the issuer and the security, and may be based upon estimates of outcomes of corporate restructurings, political and macroeconomic factors, stability and financial
strength of the issuer, the value of any secondary sources of repayment and the disposition of assets.   

Equity Securities            

      The impairment model for equity securities and other cost and equity method investments was not affected by the adoption of the
accounting standard related to other-than-temporary impairments in the second quarter of 2009. AIG continues to evaluate its available for sale equity securities, equity method
and cost method investments for impairment by considering such securities as candidates for other-than-temporary impairment if they meet any of the following
criteria:   

the security has traded at a significant (25 percent or more) discount to cost for an extended period of time (nine
consecutive months or longer);     
           a discrete credit event has occurred resulting in (i) the issuer defaulting on a material outstanding obligation;
(ii) the issuer seeking protection from creditors under the bankruptcy laws or any similar laws intended for court-supervised reorganization of insolvent enterprises; or (iii) the issuer
proposing a voluntary reorganization pursuant to which creditors are asked to exchange their claims for cash or securities having a fair value substantially lower than the par value of their claims;
or     
           AIG has concluded that it may not realize a full recovery on its investment, regardless of the occurrence of one of the
foregoing events.    

The
determination that an equity security is other-than-temporarily impaired requires the judgment of management and consideration of the fundamental condition of
the issuer, its near-term prospects and all the relevant facts and circumstances. The above criteria also consider circumstances of a rapid and severe market valuation decline in which AIG
could not reasonably assert that the impairment period would be temporary (severity losses).   

Other Invested Assets            

      AIG's investments in private equity funds and hedge funds are evaluated for impairment similar to the evaluation of equity securities
for impairments as discussed above. Such evaluation considers market conditions, events and volatility that may impact the recoverability of the underlying investments within these private equity
funds and hedge funds and is based on the nature of the underlying investments and specific inherent risks. Such risks may evolve based on the nature of the underlying investments.   

      AIG's
investments in life settlement contracts are monitored for impairment based on the underlying life insurance policies, with cash flows reported periodically. An investment in a
life settlement contract is considered impaired if the undiscounted cash flows resulting from the expected proceeds from the insurance policy are less than the carrying amount of the investment plus
anticipated continuing costs. If an impairment loss is recognized, the investment is written down to fair value. During 2011, Chartis implemented an enhanced process in which updated medical
information on individual insured lives is requested on a routine basis. In cases where updated information indicates that an individual's health has improved, an impairment loss may arise as a result
of revised estimates of net cash flows from the related contract. Chartis also revised the valuation table used to estimate   

  AIG 2011 Form 10-K            275  

Table of Contents   

   American International Group, Inc.  

   NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS    

future
net cash flows. This had the general effect of decreasing the projected net cash flows on a number of contracts. These changes resulted in an increase in the number of life settlement contracts
identified as potentially impaired.   

      AIG's
aircraft asset investments and investments in real estate are periodically evaluated for recoverability whenever changes in circumstances indicate the carrying amount of an asset
may be impaired. When impairment indicators are present, AIG compares expected investment cash flows to carrying value. When the expected cash flows are less than the carrying value, the investments
are written down to fair value with a corresponding charge to earnings.   

Purchased Credit Impaired (PCI) Securities            

      Beginning the second quarter of 2011, AIG purchased certain RMBS securities that had experienced deterioration in credit quality since their
issuance. Management determined, based on its expectations as to the timing and amount of cash flows expected to be received, that it was probable at acquisition that AIG would not collect all
contractually required payments, including both principal and interest and considering the effects of prepayments, for these PCI securities. At acquisition, the timing and amount of the undiscounted
future cash flows expected to be received on each PCI security was determined based on management's best estimate using key assumptions, such as interest rates, default rates and prepayment speeds. At
acquisition, the difference between the undiscounted expected future cash flows of the PCI securities and the recorded investment in the securities represents the initial accretable yield, which is to
be accreted into net investment income over their remaining lives on a level-yield basis. Additionally, the difference between the contractually required payments on the PCI securities and the
undiscounted expected future cash flows represents the non-accretable difference at acquisition. Over time, based on actual payments received and changes in estimates of undiscounted
expected future cash flows, the accretable yield and the non-accretable difference can change, as discussed further below.   

      On
a quarterly basis, the undiscounted expected future cash flows associated with PCI securities are re-evaluated based on updates to key assumptions. Changes to undiscounted
expected future cash flows due solely to the changes in the contractual benchmark interest rates on variable rate PCI securities will change the accretable yield prospectively. Declines in
undiscounted expected future cash flows due to further credit deterioration as well as changes in the expected timing of the cash flows can result in the recognition of an
other-than-temporary impairment charge, as PCI securities are subject to AIG's policy for evaluating investments for other-than-temporary impairment.
Significant increases in undiscounted expected future cash flows for reasons other than interest rate changes are recognized prospectively as an adjustment to the accretable yield.   

The following tables present information on AIG's PCI securities, which are included in bonds available for sale:            

(in millions)    
     
  At Date of Acquisition   

Contractually required payments (principal and interest)  
     
  $  
  14,518  

Cash flows expected to be collected   *   

11,520  

Recorded investment in acquired securities  

7,577  

*       Represents undiscounted expected cash flows, including both principal and interest.    

276            AIG 2011 Form 10-K  

Table of Contents    

   American International Group, Inc.   

   NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS     

   The following table presents activity for the accretable yield on PCI securities:     

Year Ended December 31, 2011      (in millions)    

Balance, beginning of year  
     
  $  
  -  

Newly purchased PCI securities  

3,943  

Accretion  

(324  
  )  

Effect of changes in interest rate indices  

(62  
  )  

Net reclassification from non-accretable difference, including effects of prepayments  

578  

Balance, end of year  
     
  $  
  4,135  

INSURANCE   STATUTORY AND OTHER DEPOSITS   

Total carrying values of cash and securities deposited by AIG's insurance subsidiaries under requirements of regulatory authorities or other
insurance-related arrangements were $9.8 billion and $11.5 billion at December 31, 2011 and 2010, respectively.   

8. LENDING ACTIVITIES    

The following table presents the composition of Mortgages and other loans receivable:            

*       Commercial mortgages primarily represent loans for office, retail and industrial properties, with exposures in California and New York representing the
largest geographic concentrations (24 percent and 13 percent, respectively, at December 31, 2011). Over 98 percent and 97 percent of the commercial mortgages were
current as to payments of principal and interest at December 31, 2011 and 2010, respectively.    

The following table presents the credit quality indicators for commercial mortgage loans:            

(a)       Loans that have been modified in troubled debt restructurings and are performing according to their restructured terms. See discussion of troubled debt
restructurings below.   
       (b)      Does not reflect valuation allowances.    
  AIG 2011 Form 10-K            277  

Table of Contents   

   American International Group, Inc.  

   NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS    

METHODOLOGY USED TO ESTIMATE THE ALLOWANCE FOR CREDIT LOSSES   

      Mortgage and other loans receivable are considered impaired when collection of all amounts due under contractual terms is not probable. For
commercial mortgage loans in particular, the impairment is measured based on the fair value of underlying collateral, which is determined based on the present value of expected net future cash flows
of the collateral, less estimated costs to sell. For other loans, the impairment may be measured based on the present value of expected future cash flows discounted at the loan's effective interest
rate or based on the loan's observable market price, where available. An allowance is typically established for the difference between the impaired value of the loan and its current carrying amount.
Additional allowance amounts are established for incurred but not specifically identified impairments, based on the analysis of internal risk ratings and current loan values. Internal risk ratings are
assigned based on the consideration of risk factors including past due status, debt service coverage, loan-to-value ratio or the ratio of the loan balance to the estimated
value of the property, property occupancy, profile of the borrower and of the major property tenants, economic trends in the market where the property is located, and condition of the property. These
factors and the resulting risk ratings also provide a basis for determining the level of monitoring performed at both the individual loan and the portfolio level. When all or a portion of a commercial
mortgage loan is deemed uncollectible, the uncollectible portion of the carrying value of the loan is charged off against the allowance.   

      A
significant majority of commercial mortgage loans in the portfolio are non-recourse loans and, accordingly, the only guarantees are for specific items that are exceptions
to the non-recourse provisions. It is therefore extremely rare for AIG to have cause to enforce the provisions of a guarantee on a commercial real estate or mortgage loan.   

The following table presents a rollforward of the changes in the allowance for losses on Mortgage and other loans receivable:            

(a)       Of the total, $65 million and $476 million relates to individually assessed credit losses on $110 million and $739 million of
commercial mortgage loans as of December 31, 2011 and 2010, respectively.   
       (b)      Included in Other loans were finance receivables, which were reported net of unearned finance charges, for both investment purposes
and held for sale.    

  278            AIG 2011 Form 10-K  

Table of Contents   

   American International Group, Inc.  

   NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS    

TROUBLED DEBT RESTRUCTURINGS   

      AIG modifies loans to optimize their returns and improve their collectability, among other things. When such a modification is undertaken with a
borrower that is experiencing financial difficulty and the modification involves AIG granting a concession to the troubled debtor, the modification is deemed to be a troubled debt restructuring (TDR).
AIG assesses whether a borrower is experiencing financial difficulty based on a variety of factors, including the borrower's current default on any of its outstanding debt, the probability of a
default on any of its debt in the foreseeable future without the modification, the insufficiency of the borrower's forecasted cash flows to service any of its outstanding debt (including both
principal and interest), and the borrower's inability to access alternative third-party financing at an interest rate that would be reflective of current market conditions for a
non-troubled debtor. Concessions granted may include extended maturity dates, interest rate changes, principal forgiveness, payment deferrals and easing of loan covenants.   

As
of December 31, 2011, there were no significant loans held by AIG that had been modified in a TDR during 2011.   

9. REINSURANCE    

      In the ordinary course of business, AIG's general insurance and life insurance companies place reinsurance with other insurance companies in order
to provide greater diversification of AIG's business and limit the potential for losses arising from large risks. In addition, AIG's general insurance subsidiaries assume reinsurance from other
insurance companies.   

The following table provides supplemental information for gross loss and benefit reserves net of ceded reinsurance:            

(a)       In 2011, the Net of Reinsurance amount reflects the cession under the June 17, 2011 transaction with National Indemnity Company (NICO) of
$1.7 billion.   
       (b)      Represents gross reinsurance assets, excluding allowances and reinsurance recoverable on paid losses.    

SHORT-DURATION REINSURANCE   

      Short-duration reinsurance is effected under reinsurance treaties and by negotiation on individual risks. Certain of these reinsurance
arrangements consist of excess of loss contracts that protect AIG against losses above stipulated amounts. Ceded premiums are considered prepaid reinsurance premiums and are recognized as a reduction
of premiums earned over the contract period in proportion to the protection received. Amounts recoverable from reinsurers on short-duration contracts are estimated in a manner consistent with the
claims liabilities associated with the reinsurance and presented as a component of Reinsurance assets. Assumed reinsurance premiums are earned primarily on a pro-rata basis over the terms
of the reinsurance contracts. For both ceded and assumed reinsurance, risk transfer requirements must be met in order for reinsurance accounting to apply. If risk transfer requirements are not met,
the contract is accounted for as a deposit, resulting in the recognition of cash flows under the contract through a deposit asset or liability and not as revenue or expense. To meet risk transfer
requirements, a reinsurance contract must include both insurance risk, consisting of both   

  AIG 2011 Form 10-K            279  

Table of Contents   

   American International Group, Inc.  

   NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS    

underwriting
and timing risk, and a reasonable possibility of a significant loss for the assuming entity. Similar risk transfer criteria are used to determine whether directly written insurance
contracts should be accounted for as insurance or as a deposit.   

The following table presents short-duration insurance premiums written and earned:            

*       Includes results of Mortgage Guaranty and in 2009 only, also includes results of Transatlantic Holdings, Inc. (Transatlantic), which was deconsolidated
during 2009, and 21 st  Century Insurance Group (including Agency Auto Division and excluding Chartis Private Client Group) (21st Century) and HSB Group, Inc. (HSB),
which were sold during 2009.    

      For the years ended December 31, 2011, 2010 and 2009, reinsurance recoveries, which reduced loss and loss expenses incurred, amounted to
$6.1 billion, $8.0 billion and $8.9 billion, respectively.   

LONG-DURATION REINSURANCE   

      Long-duration reinsurance is effected principally under yearly renewable term treaties. The premiums with respect to these treaties
are earned over the contract period in proportion to the protection provided. Amounts recoverable from reinsurers on long-duration contracts are estimated in a manner consistent with the
assumptions used for the underlying policy benefits and are presented as a component of Reinsurance assets.   

The following table presents premiums for AIG's long-duration insurance and retirement services operations:            

*       Primarily represents results of AIA, which was deconsolidated during 2010.    

      Long-duration reinsurance recoveries, which reduced death and other benefits, approximated $611 million, $810 million
and $638 million, respectively, for the years ended December 31, 2011, 2010 and 2009.   

The following table presents long-duration insurance in force ceded to other insurance companies:            

*       Excludes amounts related to held-for-sale entities.    

  280            AIG 2011 Form 10-K  

Table of Contents   

   American International Group, Inc.  

   NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS    

      Long-duration insurance assumed represented 0.07 percent of gross long-duration insurance in force at
December 31, 2011, 0.1 percent at December 31, 2010 and less than 0.1 percent at December 31, 2009, and combined long-duration insurance and retirement
services premiums assumed represented 0.5 percent, 0.3 percent and 0.1 percent of gross premiums for the years ended December 31, 2011, 2010 and 2009, respectively.   

      SunAmerica
operations utilize internal and third-party reinsurance relationships to manage insurance risks and to facilitate capital management strategies. Pools of highly-rated
third-party reinsurers are utilized to manage net amounts at risk in excess of retention limits. SunAmerica's domestic long-duration insurance
companies also cede excess, non-economic reserves carried on a statutory-basis on certain term and universal life insurance policies and certain fixed annuities to onshore and offshore
affiliates.   

      SunAmerica
generally obtains letters of credit in order to obtain statutory recognition of its intercompany reinsurance transactions, particularly with respect to redundant statutory
reserves requirements on term insurance and universal life with secondary guarantees (XXX and AXXX reserves). For this purpose, SunAmerica has a $585 million syndicated letter of credit
facility outstanding at December 31, 2011, all of which relates to long-duration intercompany reinsurance transactions. SunAmerica has also obtained approximately
$215 million of letters of credit on a bilateral basis all of which relates to long-duration intercompany reinsurance transactions. All of these approximately $800 million of
letters of credit are due to mature on December 31, 2015.   

REINSURANCE SECURITY   

      AIG's third-party reinsurance arrangements do not relieve AIG from its direct obligation to its insureds. Thus, a credit exposure exists with
respect to both short-duration and long-duration reinsurance ceded to the extent that any reinsurer fails to meet the obligations assumed under any reinsurance agreement. AIG holds
substantial collateral as security under related reinsurance agreements in the form of funds, securities, and/or letters of credit. A provision has been recorded for estimated unrecoverable
reinsurance. AIG has been largely successful in prior recovery efforts.   

      AIG
evaluates the financial condition of its reinsurers and AIG's Credit Risk Management department establishes limits per reinsurer. AIG believes that no exposure to a single reinsurer
represents an inappropriate concentration of risk to AIG, nor is AIG's business substantially dependent upon any single reinsurer.   

  AIG 2011 Form 10-K            281  

Table of Contents   

   American International Group, Inc.  

   NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS    

10. DEFERRED POLICY ACQUISITION  COSTS    

The following table presents a rollforward of deferred policy acquisition costs:            

(a)       In 2009, Transatlantic was deconsolidated and 21st Century and HSB were sold.      (b)      For 2010, includes AIG Star and
AIG Edison, which were sold in February 2011, AIA which was deconsolidated and ALICO which was sold
in 2010 and AIG Life Canada, which was sold in 2009.   
       (c)      In 2009, includes an increase of $1.3 billion and $2 million related to the cumulative effect of adopting a new
other-than-temporary impairments accounting standard for SunAmerica and Divested businesses, respectively.   
       (d)      In 2009, includes a decrease of $1.3 billion and $2 million related to the cumulative effect of adopting a new
other-than-temporary impairments accounting standard for SunAmerica and Divested businesses, respectively.   
       (e)      Includes $(646) million, $(1.0) billion, and $86 million for SunAmerica at December 31, 2011, 2010 and 2009,
respectively, and $(34) million for Divested businesses at 2010 related to the effect of net unrealized gains and losses on available for sale securities. For the year ended December 31, 2010,
there were no net unrealized gains and losses on available for sale securities associated with divested businesses.    

282            AIG 2011 Form 10-K  

Table of Contents   

American International Group, Inc.  

   NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS    

Included in the above table is the VOBA, an intangible asset recorded during purchase accounting, which is amortized in a manner similar to DAC.
Amortization of VOBA was $34 million, $90 million and $132 million in 2011, 2010 and 2009, respectively, while the unamortized balance was $430 million, $488 million
and $1.6 billion at December 31, 2011, 2010 and 2009, respectively. The percentage of the unamortized balance of VOBA at December 31, 2011 expected to be amortized in 2012 through
2016 by year is: 8.1 percent, 7.6 percent, 6.3 percent, 5.8 percent and 5.1 percent, respectively, with 67.1 percent being amortized after five years. These
projections are based on current estimates for investment, persistency, mortality and morbidity assumptions. The DAC amortization charged to income includes the increase or decrease of amortization
related to Net realized capital gains (losses), primarily in SunAmerica's domestic retirement services business. In 2011, 2010 and 2009, amortization expense (increased) decreased by
$307 million, $101 million and $(113) million, respectively.   

      As
AIG operates in various global markets, the estimated gross profits used to amortize DAC, VOBA and SIA are subject to differing market returns and interest rate environments in any
single period. The combination of market returns and interest rates may lead to acceleration of amortization in some products and regions and simultaneous deceleration of amortization in other
products and regions.   

      DAC,
VOBA and SIA for insurance-oriented, investment-oriented and retirement services products are reviewed for recoverability, which involves estimating the future profitability of
current business. This review involves significant management judgment. If actual future profitability is substantially lower than estimated, AIG's DAC, VOBA and SIA may be subject to an impairment
charge and AIG's results of operations could be significantly affected in future periods.   

11. VARIABLE INTEREST ENTITIES    

      A variable interest entity (VIE) is a legal entity that does not have sufficient equity at risk to finance its activities without additional
subordinated financial support or is structured such that equity investors lack the ability to make significant decisions relating to the entity's operations through voting rights and do not
substantively participate in the gains and losses of the entity. Consolidation of a VIE by its primary beneficiary is not based on majority voting interest, but is based on other criteria discussed
below.   

      While
AIG enters into various arrangements with VIEs in the normal course of business, AIG's involvement with VIEs is primarily via its insurance companies as a passive investor in debt
securities (rated and unrated) and equity interests issued by VIEs. In all instances, AIG consolidates the VIE when it determines it is the primary
beneficiary. This analysis includes a review of the VIE's capital structure, contractual relationships and terms, nature of the VIE's operations and purpose, nature of the VIE's interests issued and
AIG's involvements with the entity. When assessing the need to consolidate a VIE, AIG evaluates the design of the VIE as well as the related risks the entity was designed to expose the variable
interest holders to.   

      For
VIEs with attributes consistent with that of an investment company or a money market fund, the primary beneficiary is the party or group of related parties that absorbs a majority of
the expected losses of the VIE, receives the majority of the expected residual returns of the VIE, or both.   

      For
all other variable interest entities, the primary beneficiary is the entity that has both (1) the power to direct the activities of the VIE that most significantly affect the
entity's economic performance and (2) the obligation to absorb losses or the right to receive benefits that could be potentially significant to the VIE. While also considering these factors,
the consolidation conclusion depends on the breadth of AIG's decision-making ability and its ability to influence activities that significantly affect the economic performance of the VIE.   

  AIG 2011 Form 10-K            283  

Table of Contents    

   American International Group, Inc.   

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS     

EXPOSURE TO LOSS   

      AIG's total off-balance sheet exposure associated with VIEs, primarily consisting of financial guarantees and commitments to real
estate and investment funds, was $0.4 billion and $1.0 billion at December 31, 2011 and 2010, respectively.   

The following table presents AIG's total assets, total liabilities and off-balance sheet exposure associated with its variable interests in consolidated VIEs:            

*       The assets of each VIE can be used only to settle specific obligations of that VIE.    

      AIG calculates its maximum exposure to loss to be (i) the amount invested in the debt or equity of the VIE, (ii) the notional amount
of VIE assets or liabilities where AIG has also provided credit protection to the VIE with the VIE as the referenced obligation, and (iii) other commitments and guarantees to the VIE. Interest
holders in VIEs sponsored by AIG generally have recourse only to the assets and cash flows of the VIEs and do not have recourse to AIG, except in limited circumstances when AIG has provided a
guarantee to the VIE's interest holders.   

The following table presents total assets of unconsolidated VIEs in which AIG holds a variable interest, as well as AIG's maximum exposure to loss associated with these  VIEs:            

284            AIG 2011 Form 10-K  

Table of Contents   

   American International Group, Inc.  

   NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS    

BALANCE SHEET CLASSIFICATION   

AIG's interests in the assets and liabilities of consolidated and unconsolidated VIEs were classified in the Consolidated Balance Sheet as follows:            

*       Decrease from prior year was due to the repayment of the FRBNY Credit Facility from the AIA and ALICO SPVs pursuant to the
Recapitalization.    

      See Note 2(v) herein for the effect of consolidation under the amended accounting standard for the consolidation of variable interest
entities.   

AIA AND ALICO SPVS   

      AIG is the primary beneficiary of the AIA and ALICO SPVs, as AIG has the power to direct the activities of the SPVs that most significantly impact
their economic performance and the obligation to absorb losses and the right to receive benefits that could potentially be significant to the SPVs. See Notes 1 and 17 herein for further
discussion of the AIA and ALICO SPVs.   

REAL ESTATE AND INVESTMENT FUNDS   

      AIG, through AIG Global Real Estate, is an investor in various real estate investments, some of which are VIEs. These investments are typically
with unaffiliated third-party developers via a partnership or limited liability company structure. The VIE's activities consist of the development or redevelopment of commercial and residential real
estate. AIG's involvement varies from being a passive equity investor or finance provider to actively managing the activities of the VIE.   

AIG's
insurance operations participate as passive investors in the equity issued primarily by third-party-managed hedge and private equity funds. AIG's insurance operations typically are
not involved in the design or establishment of VIEs, nor do they actively participate in the management of VIEs.   

COMMERCIAL PAPER CONDUIT   

      AIGFP is the primary beneficiary of Curzon Funding LLC, an asset-backed commercial paper conduit, the assets of which serve as collateral
for the conduit's obligations.   

  AIG 2011 Form 10-K            285  

Table of Contents   

   American International Group, Inc.  

   NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS    

AFFORDABLE HOUSING PARTNERSHIPS   

      SunAmerica Affordable Housing Partners, Inc. (SAAHP) organizes and invests in limited partnerships that develop and operate affordable
housing qualifying for federal tax credits, in addition to a few market rate properties across
the United States. The general partners in the operating partnerships are almost exclusively unaffiliated third-party developers. AIG does not consolidate an operating partnership if the general
partner is an unaffiliated person. Through approximately 1,050 partnerships, SAAHP has investments in developments with approximately 135,000 apartment units nationwide, and as of December 31,
2011 has syndicated approximately $7.7 billion in partnership equity to other investors who will receive, among other benefits, tax credits under certain sections of the Internal Revenue Code.
The pre-tax income of SAAHP is reported, along with other SunAmerica partnership income, as a component of the SunAmerica segment.   

MAIDEN LANE INTERESTS   

      In 2008, certain AIG wholly-owned life insurance companies sold all of their undivided interests in a pool of $39.3 billion face amount of
RMBS to ML II, whose sole member is the FRBNY. AIG has a significant variable economic interest in ML II, which is a VIE.   

In
2008, AIG entered into an agreement with the FRBNY, ML III and The Bank of New York Mellon, which established arrangements, through ML III, to fund the purchase of multi-sector CDOs
underlying or related to CDS written by AIGFP. Concurrently, AIGFP's counterparties to such CDS transactions agreed to terminate those CDS transactions relating to the multi-sector CDOs purchased from
them. AIG has a significant variable interest in ML III, which is a VIE.   

OTHER ASSET ACCOUNTS   

Aircraft Trusts            

      AIG has created two VIEs for the purpose of acquiring, owning, leasing, maintaining, operating and selling aircraft. AIG subsidiaries hold
beneficial interests, including all the equity interests in these entities. These beneficial interests include passive investments by AIG's insurance operations in non-voting preferred
equity interests and in the majority of the debt issued by these entities. AIG and its subsidiaries
collectively maintain the power to direct the activities of the VIEs that most significantly impact the entities' economic performance, and bear the obligation to absorb economic losses or receive
economic benefits that could potentially be significant to the VIEs. As a result, AIG has determined that it is the primary beneficiary and fully consolidates the assets and liabilities of these
entities, which totaled $1.3 billion and $0.8 billion, respectively at December 31, 2011. The debt of these entities is not an obligation of, or guaranteed by, AIG or any of its
subsidiaries. Under a servicing agreement, ILFC acts as servicer for the aircraft owned by these entities.   

Consumer Loans Vehicles            

      AIG sponsors one VIE that has issued a variable funding note backed by a consumer loan collateralized by individual life insurance assets. As of
December 31, 2011, total consolidated assets and liabilities for this entity were $456 million and $248 million, respectively; AIG's maximum exposure, representing the carrying
value of the consumer loan, was $434 million.   

Structured Investment Vehicle            

      Through the Direct Investment book, AIG sponsors Nightingale Finance Ltd, a structured investment vehicle (SIV), which invests in variable
rate, investment-grade debt securities, the majority of which are ABS. AIG has no equity interest in the SIV; however, it maintains the power to direct the activities of the SIV that most   

286            AIG 2011 Form 10-K  

Table of Contents   

   American International Group, Inc.  

   NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS    

significantly
impact the entity's economic performance and bears the obligation to absorb economic losses that could potentially be significant to the SIV. The SIV meets the definition of a VIE and
accordingly, AIG, as primary beneficiary, consolidates the assets of the SIV, which totaled over $1 billion as of December 31, 2011 in the Direct Investment book; related liabilities
were not significant.   

FINANCING VEHICLES   

      ILFC has created wholly-owned subsidiaries for the purpose of purchasing aircraft and obtaining financing secured by such aircraft. A portion of
the secured debt has been guaranteed by the European Export Credit Agencies. These entities meet the definition of a VIE because they do not have sufficient equity to operate without ILFC's
subordinated financial support in the form of intercompany notes which serve as equity. ILFC fully consolidates the entities, controls all the activities of the entities and guarantees the activities
of the entities. AIG has not included these entities in the above table as they are wholly-owned and there are no other variable interests other than those of ILFC and the lenders. See Note 15
herein for further information.   

LEASING ENTITIES   

      ILFC has created wholly-owned subsidiaries for the purpose of facilitating aircraft leases with airlines. The entities meet the definition of a
VIE because they do not have sufficient equity to operate without ILFC's subordinated financial support in the form of intercompany notes which serve as equity. ILFC fully consolidates the entities,
controls all the activities of the entities and fully guarantees the activities of the entities. AIG has not included these entities in the above table as they are wholly owned and there are no other
variable interests in the entities other than those of ILFC.   

RMBS, CMBS, OTHER ABS AND CDOS   

      AIG, through its insurance company subsidiaries, is a passive investor in RMBS, CMBS, other ABS and CDOs primarily issued by domestic
special-purpose entities. AIG generally does not sponsor or transfer assets to, or act as the servicer to these asset-backed structures, and was not involved in the design of these entities.   

      AIG,
through its Direct Investment book, also invests in CDOs and similar structures, which can be cash-based or synthetic and are managed by third parties. The role of
Direct Investment book is generally limited to that of a passive investor in structures AIG does not manage.   

      AIG's
maximum exposure in these types of structures is limited to its investment in securities issued by these entities. Based on the nature of AIG's investments and its passive
involvement in these types of structures, AIG has determined that it is not the primary beneficiary of these entities. AIG has not included these entities in the above table; however, the fair values
of AIG's investments in these structures are reported in Notes 6 and 7 herein.   

12. DERIVATIVES AND HEDGE  ACCOUNTING    

      AIG uses derivatives and other financial instruments as part of its financial risk management programs and as part of its investment operations.
AIGFP had also transacted in derivatives as a dealer and had acted as an intermediary between the relevant AIG subsidiary and the counterparty. In a number of situations, AIG has replaced AIGFP with
AIG Markets for purposes of acting as an intermediary between the AIG subsidiary and the third-party counterparty as part of the wind-down of AIGFP's portfolios.   

      Derivatives
are financial arrangements among two or more parties with returns linked to or "derived" from some underlying equity, debt, commodity, or other asset, liability, or foreign
exchange rate or other index or the occurrence of a specified payment event. Derivatives, with the exception of bifurcated embedded derivatives, are reflected in the Consolidated Balance Sheet in
Derivative assets, at fair value and Derivative liabilities, at fair   

  AIG 2011 Form 10-K            287  

Table of Contents   

   American International Group, Inc.  

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS    

value.
A bifurcated embedded derivative is measured at fair value and accounted for in the same manner as a free standing derivative contract. The corresponding host contract is accounted for
according to the accounting guidance applicable for that instrument. A bifurcated embedded derivative is generally presented with the host contract in the Consolidated Balance Sheet. See Note 6
herein for additional information on embedded policy derivatives.   

The following table presents the notional amounts and fair values of AIG's derivative instruments:            

(a)       Notional amount represents a standard of measurement of the volume of derivatives business of AIG. Notional amount is generally not a quantification of
market risk or credit risk and is not recorded in the Consolidated Balance Sheet. Notional amounts generally represent those amounts used to calculate contractual cash flows to be exchanged and are
not paid or received, except for certain contracts such as currency swaps and certain credit contracts. For credit contracts, notional amounts are net of all underlying
subordination.   
       (b)      Fair value amounts are shown before the effects of counterparty netting adjustments and offsetting cash
collateral.   
       (c)      Includes cross currency swaps.   
       (d)      Notional amount of derivative liabilities and fair value of derivative liabilities include $18,254 million and
$918 million, respectively, at December 31, 2011, and $14,107 million and $445 million, respectively, at December 31, 2010, related to bifurcated embedded
derivatives. At December 31, 2010, these respective amounts were previously included in Other Contracts.   
       (e)      Consist primarily of contracts with multiple underlying exposures.    

  288            AIG 2011 Form 10-K  

Table of Contents    

   American International Group, Inc.   

   NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS     

The following table presents the fair values of derivative assets and liabilities in the Consolidated Balance Sheet:            

(a)       Included in All other derivatives are bifurcated embedded derivatives, which are recorded in Policyholder contract
deposits.   
       (b)      Represents derivatives used to hedge the foreign currency and interest rate risk associated with insurance and ILFC operations, as
well as embedded derivatives included in insurance obligations.   
       (c)      Represents netting of derivative exposures covered by a qualifying master netting
agreement.   
       (d)      Represents cash collateral posted and received.    

COLLATERAL   

      AIG engages in derivative transactions directly with unaffiliated third parties in most cases under International Swaps and Derivatives
Association, Inc. (ISDA) agreements. Many of the ISDA agreements also include Credit Support Annex (CSA) provisions, which generally provide for collateral postings at various ratings and
threshold levels. AIG attempts to reduce its risk with certain counterparties by entering into agreements that enable collateral to be obtained from a counterparty on an upfront or contingent basis.
AIG minimizes the risk that counterparties to transactions might be unable to fulfill their contractual obligations by monitoring counterparty credit exposure and collateral value and generally
requiring additional collateral to be posted to AIG upon the occurrence of certain events or circumstances. In addition, a significant portion of the derivative transactions have provisions that
require collateral to be posted by AIG upon a downgrade of AIG's long-term debt ratings or give the counterparty the right to terminate the transaction. In the case of some of the
derivative transactions, as an alternative to posting collateral and subject to certain conditions, AIG may assign the transaction to an obligor with higher debt ratings or arrange for a substitute
guarantee of AIG's obligations by an obligor with higher debt ratings or take other similar action. The actual amount of collateral required to be posted to counterparties in the event of such
downgrades, or the aggregate amount of payments that AIG could be required to make, depends on market conditions, the fair value of outstanding affected transactions and other factors prevailing at
and after the time of the downgrade.   

      Collateral
posted by AIG to third parties for derivative transactions was $4.7 billion and $4.3 billion at December 31, 2011 and 2010, respectively. This collateral
can generally be repledged or resold by the counterparties. Collateral obtained by AIG from third parties for derivative transactions was $1.6 billion and $4.2 billion at
December 31, 2011 and 2010, respectively. This collateral can generally be repledged or resold by AIG.   

  AIG 2011 Form 10-K            289  

Table of Contents   

   American International Group, Inc.  

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS    

HEDGE ACCOUNTING   

      AIG designated certain derivatives entered into by AIG Markets with third parties as cash flow hedges of certain debt issued by ILFC and
designated certain derivatives entered into by AIG's insurance subsidiaries with third parties as fair value hedges of available-for-sale investment securities held by such
subsidiaries. The fair value hedges include foreign currency forwards designated as hedges of the change in fair value of foreign currency denominated available-for-sale
securities attributable to changes in foreign exchange rates. With respect to the cash flow hedges, interest rate swaps were designated as hedges of the changes in cash flows on floating rate debt
attributable to changes in the benchmark interest rate.   

      AIG
assesses, both at the hedge's inception and on an ongoing basis, whether the derivatives used in hedging transactions are highly effective in offsetting changes in fair values or
cash flows of hedged items. Regression analysis is employed to assess the effectiveness of these hedges both on a prospective and retrospective basis. AIG does not utilize the shortcut method to
assess hedge effectiveness. For net investment hedges, a qualitative methodology is utilized to assess hedge effectiveness.   

AIG
uses foreign currency denominated debt as hedging instruments in net investment hedge relationships to mitigate the foreign exchange risk associated with AIG's non-U.S.
dollar functional currency foreign subsidiaries. AIG assesses the hedge effectiveness and measures the amount of ineffectiveness for these hedge relationships based on changes in spot exchange rates.
AIG records the change in the carrying amount of these investments related to the effective portion of the hedge in the foreign currency translation adjustment within Accumulated other comprehensive
income (loss). Simultaneously, the ineffective portion, if any, is recorded in earnings. If (i) the notional amount of the hedging debt matches the designated portion of the net investment and
(ii) the hedging debt is denominated in the same currency as the functional currency of the hedged net investment, no ineffectiveness is recorded in earnings. For the years ended
December 31, 2011 and 2010, AIG recognized gains (losses) of $(13) million and $28 million, respectively, included in Foreign currency translation adjustment in Accumulated other
comprehensive loss related to the net investment hedge relationships.   

   The following table presents the effect of AIG's derivative instruments in fair value hedging relationships in the Consolidated Statement of Operations:   

Years Ended December 31,      (in millions)    
     
   2011    
     
  2010   

Interest rate contracts    (a)(b)    :  

Gain (loss) recognized in earnings on derivatives  
     
    $   
   (4   
   )   
   $  
  196  

Gain (loss) recognized in earnings on hedged items    (c)    

153   

(25  
  )  

Gain recognized in earnings for ineffective portion and amount excluded from effectiveness testing  

-   

27  

(a)       Gains and losses recognized in earnings for the ineffective portion and amounts excluded from effectiveness testing are recorded in Net realized capital
gains (losses). Includes $27 million for 2010 related to the ineffective portion.   
       (b)      Includes immaterial amounts related to Foreign exchange contracts.   
       (c)      Includes $149 million for 2011 and $144 million for 2010, representing the amortization of debt basis adjustment
following the discontinuation of hedge accounting recorded in Other income and Net realized capital gains (losses).    

290            AIG 2011 Form 10-K  

Table of Contents   

   American International Group, Inc.  

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS    

   The following table presents the effect of AIG's derivative instruments in cash flow hedging relationships in the Consolidated Statement
of Operations:   

Years Ended December 31,      (in millions)    
     
   2011    
     
  2010   

Interest rate contracts    (a)    :  

Loss recognized in OCI on derivatives  
     
    $   
   (5   
   )   
   $  
  (33  
  )  

Loss reclassified from Accumulated OCI into earnings    (b)    

(55   
   )   
     
   (84  
  )  

Loss recognized in earnings on derivatives for ineffective portion  

-   

(6  
  )  

(a)       Gains and losses reclassified from Accumulated other comprehensive loss are recorded in Other income. Gains or losses recognized in earnings on derivatives
for the ineffective portion are recorded in Net realized capital losses.   
       (b)      The effective portion of the change in fair value of a derivative qualifying as a cash flow hedge is recorded in Accumulated other
comprehensive income until earnings are affected by the variability of cash flows in the hedged item. At December 31, 2011, $17 million of the deferred net loss in Accumulated other
comprehensive loss is expected to be recognized in earnings during the next 12 months.    

DERIVATIVES NOT DESIGNATED AS HEDGING INSTRUMENTS   

   The following table presents the effect of AIG's derivative instruments not designated as hedging instruments in the Consolidated Statement of
Operations:   

(a)       Includes cross currency swaps.   
       (b)      Includes embedded derivative gains (losses) of $ (397) million and $423 million, for the years ended
December 31, 2011 and December 31, 2010, respectively.    

AIGFP DERIVATIVES   

      AIGFP enters into derivative transactions to mitigate market risk in its exposures (interest rates, currencies, commodities, credit and equities)
arising from its transactions. In most cases, AIGFP did not hedge its exposures related to the credit default swaps it had written. As a dealer, AIGFP structured and entered into derivative
transactions to meet the needs of counterparties who may have been seeking to hedge certain aspects of such counterparties' operations or obtain a desired financial exposure.   

AIGFP's
derivative transactions involving interest rate swap transactions generally involve the exchange of fixed and floating rate interest payment obligations without the exchange of
the underlying notional amounts. AIGFP typically became a principal in the exchange of interest payments between the parties and, therefore, is exposed to   

  AIG 2011 Form 10-K            291  

Table of Contents   

   American International Group, Inc.  

   NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS    

counterparty
credit risk and may be exposed to loss, if counterparties default. Currency, commodity and equity swaps are similar to interest rate swaps but involve the exchange of specific currencies
or cash flows based on the underlying commodity, equity securities or indices. Also, they may involve the exchange of notional amounts at the beginning and end of the transaction. Swaptions are
options where the holder has the right but not the obligation to enter into a swap transaction or cancel an existing swap transaction.   

AIGFP
follows a policy of minimizing interest rate, currency, commodity, and equity risks associated with investment securities by entering into offsetting positions, thereby offsetting
a significant portion of the unrealized appreciation and depreciation. In addition, to reduce its credit risk, at December 31, 2011, AIGFP has entered into credit derivative transactions with
respect to $196 million of securities to economically hedge its credit risk.   

      The
timing and the amount of cash flows relating to AIGFP's foreign exchange forwards and exchange traded futures and options contracts are determined by each of the respective
contractual agreements.   

      Futures
and forward contracts are contracts that obligate the holder to sell or purchase foreign currencies, commodities or financial indices in which the seller/purchaser agrees to
make/take delivery at a specified future
date of a specified instrument, at a specified price or yield. Options are contracts that allow the holder of the option to purchase or sell the underlying commodity, currency or index at a specified
price and within, or at, a specified period of time. As a writer of options, AIGFP generally receives an option premium and then manages the risk of any unfavorable change in the value of the
underlying commodity, currency or index by entering into offsetting transactions with third-party market participants. Risks arise as a result of movements in current market prices from contracted
prices, and the potential inability of the counterparties to meet their obligations under the contracts.   

AIGFP Super Senior Credit Default Swaps            

      AIGFP entered into credit default swap transactions with the intention of earning revenue on credit exposure. In the majority of AIGFP's credit
default swap transactions, AIGFP sold credit protection on a designated portfolio of loans or debt securities. Generally, AIGFP provides such credit protection on a "second loss" basis, meaning that
AIGFP would incur credit losses only after a shortfall of principal and/or interest, or other credit events, in respect of the protected loans and debt securities, exceeds a specified threshold amount
or level of "first losses."   

      Typically,
the credit risk associated with a designated portfolio of loans or debt securities has been tranched into different layers of risk, which are then analyzed and rated by the
credit rating agencies. At origination, there is usually an equity layer covering the first credit losses in respect of the portfolio up to a specified percentage of the total portfolio, and then
successive layers ranging generally from a BBB-rated layer to one or more AAA-rated layers. A significant majority of AIGFP transactions that were rated by rating agencies had
risk layers or tranches rated AAA at origination that are immediately junior to the threshold level above which AIGFP's payment obligation would generally arise. In transactions that were not rated,
AIGFP applied equivalent risk criteria for setting the threshold level for its payment obligations. Therefore, the risk layer assumed by AIGFP with respect to the designated portfolio of loans or debt
securities in these transactions is often called the "super senior" risk layer, defined as a layer of credit risk senior to one or more risk layers rated AAA by the credit rating agencies, or, if the
transaction is not rated, structured to be the equivalent thereto.   

292            AIG 2011 Form 10-K  

Table of Contents   

   American International Group, Inc.  

   NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS    

   The following table presents the net notional amount, fair value of derivative (asset) liability and unrealized market valuation gain (loss) of the AIGFP super senior credit
default swap portfolio, including credit default swaps written on mezzanine tranches of certain regulatory capital relief transactions, by asset class:   

(a)       Net notional amounts presented are net of all structural subordination below the covered tranches.   
       (b)      Fair value amounts are shown before the effects of counterparty netting adjustments and offsetting cash
collateral.   
       (c)      Includes credit valuation adjustment gains (losses) of $26 million and ($133) million in the years ended December 31,
2011 and 2010, respectively, representing the effect of changes in AIG's credit spreads on the valuation of the derivatives liabilities.   
       (d)      During 2011, AIGFP terminated two super senior prime residential mortgage transactions, with a combined net notional amount of
$24.1 billion, that had previously been the subject of a collateral dispute. In addition, AIGFP terminated all of the related mezzanine tranches and hedge transactions related to those
mezzanine tranches, with a combined net notional amount of $2.2 billion. The transactions were terminated at values that approximated their collective fair values at the time of
termination.   
       (e)      During 2011, AIGFP liquidated one multi-sector super senior CDS transaction with a net notional amount of $188 million. The
primary underlying collateral components, which consisted of individual ABS CDS transactions, were sold in an auction to counterparties, including AIGFP, at their approximate fair value at the time of
the liquidation. AIGFP was the winning bidder on approximately $107 million of individual ABS CDS transactions, which are reported in written single name credit default swaps as of
December 31, 2011. During 2011, AIGFP also paid $37 million to its counterparties with respect to multi-sector CDOs. Multi-sector CDOs also include $4.6 billion and
$5.5 billion in net notional amount of credit default swaps written with cash settlement provisions at December 31, 2011 and December 31, 2010,
respectively.   
       (f)      Corporate debt/CLOs include $1.2 billion and $1.3 billion in net notional amount of credit default swaps written on the
super senior tranches of CLOs at December 31, 2011 and December 31, 2010, respectively.   
       (g)      Net of offsetting purchased CDS of $1.4 billion in net notional amount at December 31, 2010. There were no offsetting
purchased CDSs at December 31, 2011.    

The expected weighted average maturity of AIGFP's super senior credit derivative portfolios as of December 31, 2011 was 0.72 years
for the regulatory capital corporate loan portfolio, 0.41 years for the regulatory capital prime residential mortgage portfolio, 3.78 years for the regulatory capital other portfolio,
6.42 years for the multi-sector CDO arbitrage portfolio and 4.18 years for the corporate debt/CLO portfolio.   

  AIG 2011 Form 10-K            293  

Table of Contents    

   American International Group, Inc.   

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS     

      Given the current performance of the underlying portfolios, the level of subordination of the credit protection written by AIGFP and AIGFP's own assessment of the
credit quality of the underlying portfolio, as well as the risk mitigants inherent in the transaction structures, AIGFP does not expect that it will be required to make payments pursuant to the
contractual terms of those transactions providing regulatory relief.   

      Because
of long-term maturities of the CDS in the arbitrage portfolio, AIG is unable to make reasonable estimates of the periods during which any payments would be made.
However, the net notional amount represents the maximum exposure to loss on the super senior credit default swap portfolio.   

AIGFP Written Single Name Credit Default Swaps           

      AIGFP has also entered into credit default swap contracts referencing single-name exposures written on corporate, index and
asset-backed credits, with the intention of earning spread income on credit exposure. Some of these transactions were entered into as part of a long-short strategy allowing AIGFP to earn
the net spread between CDS it wrote and ones it purchased. At December 31, 2011, the net notional amount of these written CDS contracts was $380 million, including ABS CDS transactions
assumed by AIGFP from a liquidated multi-sector super senior CDS transaction. AIGFP has hedged these exposures by purchasing offsetting CDS contracts of $70 million in net notional amount. The
net unhedged position of approximately $310 million represents the maximum exposure to loss on these CDS contracts. The average maturity of the written CDS contracts is 19.13 years. At
December 31, 2011, the fair value of derivative liability (which represents the carrying value) of the portfolio of CDS was $89 million.   

      Upon
a triggering event (e.g., a default) with respect to the underlying credit, AIGFP would normally have the option to settle the position through an auction process (cash
settlement) or pay the notional amount of the contract to the counterparty in exchange for a bond issued by the underlying credit obligor (physical settlement).   

AIGFP
wrote these CDS contracts under ISDA Master Agreements. The majority of these Master Agreements include CSAs that provide for collateral postings at various ratings and threshold
levels. At December 31, 2011, AIGFP had posted $112 million of collateral under these contracts.   

ALL OTHER DERIVATIVES   

      AIG's businesses other than AIGFP also use derivatives and other instruments as part of their financial risk management. Interest rate derivatives
(such as interest rate swaps) are used to manage interest rate risk associated with embedded derivatives contained in insurance contract liabilities, fixed maturity securities, outstanding medium- and
long-term notes as well as other interest rate sensitive assets and liabilities. Foreign exchange derivatives (principally foreign exchange forwards and options) are used to economically
mitigate risk associated with non-U.S. dollar denominated debt, net capital exposures, and foreign currency transactions. Equity derivatives are used to mitigate financial risk embedded in
certain insurance liabilities. The derivatives are effective economic hedges of the exposures that they are meant to offset.   

In
addition to hedging activities, AIG also enters into derivative instruments with respect to investment operations, which include, among other things, credit default swaps and
purchasing investments with embedded derivatives, such as equity linked notes and convertible bonds.   

Matched Investment Program Written Credit Default Swaps            

      AIG's MIP operations, which are reported in AIG's Other operations category as part of the Direct Investment book, are currently in
run-off. Through the MIP, AIG has entered into CDS contracts as a writer of protection, with the intention of earning spread income on credit exposure in an unfunded form. The portfolio of
CDS contracts were single-name exposures and, at inception, were predominantly high-grade corporate credits.   

  294            AIG 2011 Form 10-K  

Table of Contents   

   American International Group, Inc.  

   NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS    

      These
contracts were written through AIG Markets, which then transacted directly with unaffiliated third parties under ISDA agreements. As of December 31, 2011, the notional
amount of written CDS contracts was $1.1 billion with an average credit rating of BBB+. At that date, the average remaining maturity of the written CDS contracts was less than one year and the
fair value of the derivative liability (which represents the carrying value) of the MIP's written CDS contracts was $13 million.   

The
majority of the ISDA agreements include CSA provisions, which provide for collateral postings at various ratings and threshold levels. At December 31, 2011, $2 million
of collateral was posted for CDS contracts related to the MIP. The notional amount represents the maximum exposure to loss on the written CDS contracts. However, because of the average investment
grade rating and expected default recovery rates, actual losses are expected to be less.   

      Upon
a triggering event (e.g., a default) with respect to the underlying credit, AIG Markets would normally have the option to settle the position on behalf of the MIP through an
auction process (cash settlement) or pay the notional amount of the contract to the counterparty in exchange for a bond issued by the underlying credit (physical settlement).   

Credit Risk-Related Contingent Features            

      AIG engages in derivative transactions directly with unaffiliated third parties under ISDA agreements. Many of the ISDA agreements also include
CSA provisions, which provide for collateral postings at various ratings and
threshold levels. In addition, AIG attempts to reduce credit risk with certain counterparties by entering into agreements that enable collateral to be obtained from a counterparty on an upfront or
contingent basis.   

      The
aggregate fair value of AIG's derivative instruments, including those of AIGFP, that contain credit risk-related contingent features that were in a net liability position
at December 31, 2011, was approximately $4.9 billion. The aggregate fair value of assets posted as collateral under these contracts at December 31, 2011, was $5.1 billion.   

      AIG
estimates that at December 31, 2011, based on AIG's outstanding financial derivative transactions, including those of AIGFP at that date, a one-notch downgrade of
AIG's long-term senior debt ratings to BBB+ by Standard   Poor's Financial Services LLC, a subsidiary of The McGraw-Hill Companies, Inc. (S P), would
permit counterparties to make additional collateral calls and permit the counterparties to elect early termination of contracts, resulting in a negligible amount of corresponding collateral postings
and termination payments; a one-notch downgrade to Baa2 by Moody's Investors' Services, Inc. (Moody's) and an additional one-notch downgrade to BBB by S P would result
in approximately $264 million in additional collateral postings and termination payments and a further one-notch downgrade to Baa3 by Moody's and BBB- by S P would
result in approximately $267 million in additional collateral postings and termination payments. Additional collateral postings upon downgrade are estimated based on the factors in the
individual collateral posting provisions of the CSA with each counterparty and current exposure as of December 31, 2011. Factors considered in estimating the termination payments upon downgrade
include current market conditions, the complexity of the derivative transactions, historical termination experience and other observable market events such as bankruptcy and downgrade events that have
occurred at other companies. Management's estimates are also based on the assumption that counterparties will terminate based on their net exposure to AIG. The actual termination payments could
significantly differ from management's estimates given market conditions at the time of downgrade and the level of uncertainty in estimating both the number of counterparties who may elect to exercise
their right to terminate and the payment that may be triggered in connection with any such exercise.   

  AIG 2011 Form 10-K            295  

Table of Contents   

   American International Group, Inc.  

   NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS    

HYBRID SECURITIES WITH EMBEDDED CREDIT DERIVATIVES   

      AIG invests in hybrid securities (such as credit-linked notes). Upon the issuance of credit-linked notes, the cash received by the issuer is
generally used to invest in highly rated securities in addition to entering into a derivative contract that exchanges the return on its highly-rated securities for the return on a separate portfolio
of assets. The investments owned by the issuer serve as collateral for the derivative instrument written by the issuer. The
return on the separate portfolio received by the issuer is used to pay the return owed on the credit-linked notes. These hybrid securities expose AIG to risks similar to the risks in RMBS, CMBS, CDOs
and ABS, but such risk is derived from the separate portfolio rather than from direct mortgage or loan investments owned by the issuer. As with other investments in RMBS, CMBS, CDOs and other ABS, AIG
invested in these hybrid securities with the intent of generating income, and not specifically to acquire exposure to embedded derivative risk. Similar to AIG's other investments in RMBS, CMBS, CDOs
and ABS, AIG's investments in these hybrid securities are exposed to losses only up to the amount of AIG's initial investment in the hybrid security, as losses on the derivative contract will be paid
via the collateral held by the entity that issues the hybrid security. Losses on the embedded derivative contracts may be triggered by events such as bankruptcy, failure to pay or restructuring
associated with the obligations referenced by the derivative, and these losses in turn result in the reduction of the principal amount to be repaid to AIG and other investors in the hybrid securities.
Other than AIG's initial investment in the hybrid securities, AIG has no further obligation to make payments on the embedded credit derivatives in the related hybrid securities.   

      Effective
July 1, 2010, AIG elected to account for its investments in these hybrid securities with embedded written credit derivatives at fair value, with changes in fair value
recognized in Net investment income and Other income. Through June 30, 2010, these hybrid securities had been accounted for as available for sale securities, and had been subject to
other-than-temporary impairment accounting as applicable.   

      AIG's
investments in these hybrid securities are reported as Bond trading securities in the Consolidated Balance Sheet. The fair value of these hybrid securities was $111 million
at December 31, 2011. These securities have a current par amount of $454 million and have remaining stated maturity dates that extend to 2052.   

296            AIG 2011 Form 10-K  

Table of Contents   

   American International Group, Inc.  

   NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS    

13. LIABILITY FOR UNPAID CLAIMS AND CLAIMS ADJUSTMENT EXPENSE AND FUTURE  POLICY BENEFITS FOR LIFE AND ACCIDENT AND HEALTH INSURANCE CONTRACTS AND POLICYHOLDER CONTRACT
DEPOSITS    

The following table presents the reconciliation of activity in the Liability for unpaid claims and claims adjustment expense:   

(a)       Represents the acquisition of Fuji on March 31, 2010.   
       (b)      Transatlantic was deconsolidated in 2009, and 21st Century and HSB were sold in
2009.   
       (c)      Includes amounts related to dispositions through the date of disposition.   
       (d)      In 2011, includes $(414) million, $145 million and $413 million related to excess casualty, commercial specialty
workers' compensation and environmental, respectively. In 2010, includes $1.1 billion, $793 million and $1.5 billion related to excess casualty, excess workers' compensation and
asbestos, respectively. In 2009, includes $1.5 billion, $956 million and $151 million related to excess casualty, excess workers' compensation and asbestos,
respectively.    

The 2011 net adverse development includes loss-sensitive business, for which AIG also recognized a $172 million
loss-sensitive premium adjustment.   

      The
2010 net adverse loss development for prior accident years primarily relates to the asbestos, excess casualty, excess workers' compensation and primary workers' compensation.
Further, this charge primarily relates to accident years 2007 and prior (accident years before the financial crisis in 2008) and a significant amount relates to accident 2005 and prior (accident years
prior to the start of the managed reduction in these long-tail lines of business). The 2009 charge relates to excess casualty, excess workers' compensation and asbestos lines of business.   

  AIG 2011 Form 10-K            297  

Table of Contents   

   American International Group, Inc.  

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS    

Further,
the charge relates to accident years 2005 and prior (accident years prior to the start of the managed reduction in these long-tail lines of business).   

      In
2010 and 2009, the reserve charges were primarily due to long-tail lines of business which have been reduced since 2006. In the case of asbestos, since 1985, standard
policies have contained an absolute exclusion for asbestos and pollution-related damages. The factors driving excess casualty loss cost were primarily due to medical inflation and the exhaustion of
underlying primary policies for products liability coverage and for homebuilders. In 2010, excess workers' compensation experienced significant prior year development related to the
passage of the Affordable Care Act in March 2010 as management concluded that there is increased vulnerability to the risk of further cost-shifting to the excess workers' compensation
class of business.   

DISCOUNTING OF RESERVES   

      At December 31, 2011, net loss reserves reflect a loss reserve discount of $3.18 billion, including tabular and
non-tabular calculations based upon the following assumptions.    

The tabular workers' compensation discount is calculated using a 3.5 percent interest rate and the
1979-81 Decennial Mortality Table.     
           The non-tabular workers' compensation discount is calculated separately for companies domiciled in New York
and Pennsylvania, and follows the statutory regulations for each state. For New York companies, the discount is based on a five percent interest rate and the companies' own payout patterns. For
Pennsylvania companies, the statute has specified discount factors for accident years 2001 and prior, which are based on a six percent interest rate and an industry payout pattern. For accident years
2002 and subsequent, the discount is based on the payout patterns and investment yields of the companies.    
           Certain asbestos business that was written by Chartis is discounted, when allowed by the regulator and when payments are
fixed and determinable, based on the investment yields of the companies and the payout pattern for this business.    

The
discount consists of the following: $777 million   tabular discount for workers' compensation in the domestic operations of Chartis and
$2.32 billion   non-tabular discount for workers' compensation in the domestic operations of Chartis; and $88 million  
non-tabular discount for asbestos for Chartis.   

FUTURE POLICY BENEFITS   

   The following table presents the components of future policy benefits:   

Long duration contract liabilities included in future policy benefits, as presented in the preceding table, result primarily from life products.
Short duration contract liabilities are primarily accident and health products. The liability for future life policy benefits has been established on the basis of the following
assumptions:   

Interest rates (exclusive of immediate/terminal funding annuities), which vary by year of issuance and products, range
from 1 percent to 9.5 percent within the first 20 years. Interest rates on immediate/terminal funding annuities are at a maximum of 13.5 percent and grade to not greater
than 0.5 percent.    

298            AIG 2011 Form 10-K  

Table of Contents   

   American International Group, Inc.  

   NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS    

Mortality and surrender rates are based upon actual experience modified to allow for variations in policy form. The
weighted average lapse rate, including surrenders, for individual and group life was approximately 5.3 percent.     
           The portions of current and prior Net income and of current unrealized appreciation of investments that can inure to the
benefit of AIG are restricted in some cases by the insurance contracts and by the local insurance regulations of the jurisdictions in which the policies are in force.     
           Participating life business represented approximately 2.2 percent of the gross insurance in force at
December 31, 2011 and 4.8 percent of gross Premiums and other considerations in 2011. The amount of annual dividends to be paid is approved locally by the boards of directors of the life
companies. Provisions for future dividend payments are computed by jurisdiction, reflecting local regulations.    

POLICYHOLDER CONTRACT DEPOSITS   

   The following table presents policyholder contract deposits liabilities:   

The liability for policyholder contract deposits has been established based on the following assumptions:   

Interest rates credited on deferred annuities, which vary by year of issuance, range from 1 percent to, including
bonuses, 9 percent. Current declared interest rates are generally guaranteed to remain in effect for a period of one year though some are guaranteed for longer periods. Withdrawal charges
generally range from zero percent to 20 percent grading to zero over a period of zero to 15 years.     
           Guaranteed investment contracts (GICs) have market value withdrawal provisions for any funds withdrawn other than benefit
responsive payments. Interest rates credited generally range from 0.4 percent to 8.5 percent. The majority of these GICs mature within five years.     
           Interest rates on corporate life insurance products are guaranteed at 3 percent and the weighted average rate
credited in 2011 was 4.8 percent.     
           The universal life funds have credited interest rates of 1 percent to 8 percent and guarantees ranging from
1 percent to 5.5 percent depending on the year of issue. Additionally, universal life funds are subject to surrender charges that amount to 10.3 percent of the aggregate fund
balance grading to zero over a period not longer than 20 years.    
           For variable products and investment contracts, policy values are expressed in terms of investment units. Each unit is
linked to an asset portfolio. The value of a unit increases or decreases based on the value of the linked asset portfolio. The current liability at any time is the sum of the current unit value of all
investment units plus any liability for guaranteed minimum death or withdrawal benefits.    

Certain
products are subject to experience adjustments. These include group life and group medical products, credit life contracts, accident and health insurance contracts/riders
attached to life policies and, to a limited extent,   

  AIG 2011 Form 10-K            299  

Table of Contents   

   American International Group, Inc.  

   NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS    

  reinsurance
agreements with other direct insurers. Ultimate premiums from these contracts are estimated and recognized as revenue, and the unearned portions of the premiums recorded as liabilities.
Experience adjustments vary according to the type of contract and the territory in which the policy is in force and are subject to local regulatory guidance.   

14. VARIABLE LIFE AND ANNUITY  CONTRACTS    

      AIG reports variable contracts through separate accounts when investment income and investment gains and losses accrue directly to, and investment
risk is borne by, the contract holder (traditional variable annuities), and the separate account qualifies for separate account treatment. AIG also reports variable annuity and life contracts through
separate accounts, or general accounts when not qualified for separate account reporting, when AIG contractually guarantees to the contract holder (variable contracts with guarantees) either
(a) total deposits made to the contract less any partial withdrawals plus a minimum return (and in minor instances, no minimum returns) or (b) the highest contract value attained,
typically on any anniversary date minus any subsequent withdrawals following the contract anniversary. These guarantees include benefits that are payable in the event of death, annuitization, or, in
other instances, at specified dates during the accumulation period. Such benefits are referred to as guaranteed minimum death benefits (GMDB), guaranteed minimum income benefits (GMIB), guaranteed
minimum withdrawal benefits (GMWB) and guaranteed minimum account value benefits (GMAV). For AIG, GMDB is the most widely offered benefit.   

The
assets supporting the variable portion of both traditional variable annuities and variable contracts with guarantees are carried at fair value and reported as separate account assets
with an equivalent summary total reported as separate account liabilities when the separate account qualifies for separate account treatment. Assets for separate accounts that do not qualify for
separate account treatment are reported as trading account assets, and liabilities are included in the respective policyholder liability account of the general account. Amounts assessed against the
contract holders for mortality, administrative, and other services are included in revenue and changes in liabilities for minimum guarantees are included in Policyholder benefits and claims incurred
in the Consolidated Statement of Operations. Separate account net investment income, net investment gains and losses, and the related liability changes are offset within the same line item in the
Consolidated Statement of Operations for those accounts that qualify for separate account treatment. Net investment income and gains and losses on trading accounts for contracts that do not qualify
for separate account treatment are reported in Net investment income and are principally offset by amounts reported in Policyholder benefits and claims incurred.   

The following table presents details concerning AIG's GMDB exposures:   

(a)       Included in Policyholder contract deposits in the Consolidated Balance Sheet.   
       (b)      Represents the amount of death benefit currently in excess of Account value.    

300            AIG 2011 Form 10-K  

Table of Contents   

American International Group, Inc.  

   NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS    

The following summarizes GMDB and GMIB liabilities for guarantees on variable contracts reflected in the general
account:   

The GMDB liability is determined each period end by estimating the expected value of death benefits in excess of the projected account balance and
recognizing the excess ratably over the accumulation period based on total expected assessments. AIG regularly evaluates estimates used and adjusts the additional liability balance, with a related
charge or credit to benefit expense, if actual experience or other evidence suggests that earlier assumptions should be revised.   

      The
following assumptions and methodology were used to determine the GMDB liability at December 31, 2011:   

Data used was up to 1,000 stochastically generated investment performance scenarios.     
           Mean investment performance assumptions ranged from three percent to approximately ten percent depending on the block of
business.     
           Volatility assumption was 16 percent.     
           Mortality was assumed at between 50 percent and 88 percent based on various life and annuity mortality
tables adjusted for recent experience.     
           Lapse rates vary by contract type and duration and ranged from zero percent to 40 percent.    
           The discount rate ranged from 3.75 percent to 10 percent and is based on the growth rate assumption for the
underlying contracts in effect at the time of policy issuance.    

In
addition to GMDB, AIG's contracts currently include to a lesser extent GMIB. The GMIB liability is determined each period end by estimating the expected value of the annuitization
benefits in excess of the projected account balance at the date of annuitization and recognizing the excess ratably over the accumulation period based on total expected assessments. AIG periodically
evaluates estimates used and adjusts the additional liability balance, with a related charge or credit to benefit expense, if actual experience or other evidence suggests that earlier assumptions
should be revised.   

      AIG
contracts currently include GMAV and GMWB benefits. GMAV and GMWB features are considered to be embedded derivatives are recognized at fair value through earnings. AIG enters into
derivative contracts to economically hedge a portion of the exposure that arises from GMAV and GMWB. At December 31, 2011, AIG had $14.7 billion of account values and $1.9 billion
of net amount at risk that were attributable to variable annuities with GMAV and GMWB benefits. See Note 6 herein for additional fair value disclosures.   

  AIG 2011 Form 10-K            301  

Table of Contents    

   American International Group, Inc.   

   NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS     

15. DEBT OUTSTANDING    

The following table presents maturities of long-term debt (including unamortized original issue discount, hedge accounting valuation adjustments and fair value
adjustments, when applicable), excluding $1.9 billion in borrowings of consolidated investments:   

AIG GENERAL BORROWINGS   

   The following table presents maturities of AIG's general borrowings:   

Notes and Bonds Payable            

      In November 2011, AIG issued senior unsecured notes in exchange for specified series of its outstanding Junior Subordinated Debentures. As a
result of the exchange offer, AIG issued $256 million in 6.820 percent Dollar notes due 2037,  662 million ($1.03 billion at the December 31, 2011
exchange rate) in 6.765 percent Sterling notes due 2017 and  421 million ($545 million at the December 31, 2011 exchange rate) in 6.797 percent Euro
notes due 2017. For additional details regarding the exchange offer, see   Junior subordinated debt below.   

      In
the fourth quarter of 2010, AIG issued an aggregate of $2.0 billion in senior unsecured notes, consisting of $500 million in three-year notes and
$1.5 billion in ten-year notes.   

      As
of December 31, 2011, approximately $5.7 billion principal amount of senior notes were outstanding under AIG's medium-term note program. The maturity dates
of these notes range from 2012 to 2052. To the extent considered appropriate, AIG may enter into swap transactions to manage its effective borrowing rates with respect to these notes.   

As
of December 31, 2011, the equivalent of $7.8 billion of notes were outstanding under AIG's Euro medium-term note program. The aggregate amount outstanding
includes a $174 million gain resulting from foreign exchange translation into U.S. dollars related to notes issued to fund the MIP. AIG has economically hedged the currency exposure arising
from its foreign currency denominated notes.   

      AIG
maintains a shelf registration statement in Japan, providing for the issuance of up to 300 billion Japanese Yen ($3.9 billion at the December 31, 2011 exchange
rate) principal amount of senior notes and there was no balance outstanding at December 31, 2011.   

302            AIG 2011 Form 10-K  

Table of Contents   

   American International Group, Inc.  

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS    

Junior Subordinated Debt            

      During 2007 and 2008, AIG issued an aggregate of $12.5 billion of junior subordinated debentures denominated in U.S. dollars, British
Pounds and Euros in eight series of securities. In connection with each series of junior subordinated debentures, AIG entered into a Replacement Capital Covenant (RCC) for the benefit of the holders
of AIG's 6.25 percent senior notes due 2036. The RCCs provide that AIG will not repay, redeem, or purchase the applicable series of junior subordinated debentures on or before a specified date,
unless AIG has received qualifying proceeds from the sale of replacement capital securities.   

      In
November 2011, AIG exchanged specified series of its outstanding Junior Subordinated Debentures for newly issued senior notes pursuant to an exchange offer. In particular, AIG
exchanged (i) $312 million aggregate principal amount of its outstanding Series A-1 Junior Subordinated Debentures for $256 million aggregate principal
amount of its new 6.820 percent Dollar notes due November 15, 2037, (ii)  812 million ($1.26 billion at the December 31, 2011 exchange rate)
aggregate principal amount of its outstanding Series A-2 and Series A-8 Junior Subordinated Debentures for  662 million
($1.03 billion at the December 31, 2011 exchange rate) aggregate principal amount of its new 6.765 percent Sterling notes due November 15, 2017 and
(iii)  591 million ($766 million at the December 31, 2011 exchange rate) aggregate principal amount of its outstanding
Series A-3 Junior Subordinated Debentures for  421 million ($545 million at the December 31, 2011 exchange rate) aggregate principal
amount of its new 6.797 percent Euro notes due November 15, 2017.   

      The
exchange resulted in a pre-tax gain on extinguishment of debt of approximately $484 million, which is reflected in Net loss on extinguishment of debt in the
Consolidated Statement of Operations and a deferred gain of $65 million reflected in Other long-term debt in the Consolidated Balance Sheet, which will be amortized as a reduction
to future interest expense.   

      In
May 2008, as adjusted for the one-for-twenty reverse split of AIG's Common Stock effective June 30, 2009, AIG raised a total of approximately
$20 billion through the sale of (i) 9,835,526 shares of AIG Common Stock, in a public offering at a price per share of $760; (ii) 78.4 million Equity Units in a public
offering at a price per unit of $75; and (iii) $6.9 billion in unregistered offerings of junior subordinated debentures
in three series. In November 2010, AIG exchanged 49,474,600 of its Equity Units for 4,881,667 shares of AIG Common Stock plus $162 million in cash. Each Equity Unit was exchanged for 0.09867
shares of AIG Common Stock plus $3.2702 in cash. The stock and cash received by the Equity Unit holders was the result of netting payments from two separate transactions, a repurchase of the
subordinated debentures and a cancellation of the stock purchase contracts. AIG recognized a loss of $104 million as a result of the exchange. Following the completion of the exchange offer, a
total of 28,925,400 Equity Units remained outstanding. In 2011, AIG remarketed the three series of debentures included in the Equity Units. AIG purchased and retired all of the
Series B-1, B-2 and B-3 Debentures representing $2.2 billion in aggregate principal and as a result, no Series B-1, B-2
or B-3 Debentures remain outstanding. An additional loss of $47 million was recognized from the remarketing activities.   

SAFG, Inc. Notes and Bonds Payable            

      At December 31, 2011, SAFG, Inc. (formerly American General Corporation) notes and bonds payable aggregating $298 million
were outstanding with maturity dates ranging from 2025 to 2029 at interest rates from 6.625 percent to 7.50 percent. AIG guarantees the notes and bonds of SAFG, Inc.   

Liabilities Connected To Trust Preferred Stock            

      In connection with its acquisition of SAFG, Inc. in 2001, AIG entered into arrangements with SAFG, Inc. with respect to outstanding
SAFG, Inc. capital securities. In 1996, SAFG, Inc. issued capital securities through a trust to institutional investors and funded the trust with SAFG, Inc. junior subordinated
debentures issued to the trust. SAFG, Inc. guaranteed payments to the holders of capital securities only to the extent (i) the trust received payments on the debentures and
(ii) these payments were available for the trust to pay to holders of capital   

  AIG 2011 Form 10-K            303  

Table of Contents   

   American International Group, Inc.  

   NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS    

securities.
In 2001, AIG guaranteed the same payments to the holders of capital securities. Like the SAFG, Inc. guarantee, the AIG guarantee only applies to any payments actually made to the
trust in respect of the debentures. If no payments are made on the debentures, AIG is not required to make any payments to the trust. AIG also guaranteed the debentures pursuant to a guarantee that is
expressly subordinated to certain SAFG, Inc. senior debt securities. Under AIG's guarantee, AIG is not required to make any payments in respect of the debentures if such payment would be
prohibited by the subordination provisions of the debentures. As a result, AIG will never be required to make a payment under its guarantee of the debentures for so long as SAFG, Inc. is
prohibited from making a payment on the debentures.   

      At
December 31, 2011, the preferred stock outstanding consisted of $300 million liquidation value of 8.5 percent preferred stock issued by American General Capital
II in June 2000, $500 million liquidation value of 8.125 percent
preferred stock issued by American General Institutional Capital B in March 1997 and $500 million liquidation value of 7.57 percent preferred stock issued by American General
Institutional Capital A in December 1996.   

AIG BORROWINGS SUPPORTED BY ASSETS   

The following table presents maturities of AIG's borrowings supported by assets:   

MIP Notes Payable            

      On September 13, 2011, AIG raised $2.0 billion in proceeds from the issuance of senior unsecured notes, comprised of
$1.2 billion in three-year notes and $800 million in five-year notes. The proceeds from the sale of these notes are being used to pay maturing notes that were
issued by AIG to fund the MIP.   

Series AIGFP Matched Notes and Bonds Payable            

      At December 31, 2011, AIG has outstanding $3.25 billion principal amount of senior unsecured notes that were issued in a
Rule 144A/Regulation S offering which bear interest at a per annum rate of 8.25 percent and mature in 2018. The proceeds from the sale of these notes were used by the Direct
Investment book for its general corporate purposes. In addition, the Direct Investment book has used $310 million of senior notes outstanding under AIG's medium-term note program.
These notes are included within "Series AIGFP matched notes and bonds payable" in the preceding tables.   

GIAs at Fair Value            

      Borrowings under obligations of GIAs, which are guaranteed by AIG, are recorded at fair value using discounted cash flow calculations based upon
interest rates currently being offered for similar contracts and AIG's current market observable implicit credit spread rates with maturities consistent with those remaining for the contracts being
valued. Obligations may be called at various times prior to maturity at the option of the counterparty. Interest rates on these borrowings are primarily fixed, vary by maturity and range up to
9.8 percent.   

  304            AIG 2011 Form 10-K  

Table of Contents   

   American International Group, Inc.  

   NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS    

      Generally,
GIAs have provisions that require collateral to be posted by AIG upon a downgrade of AIG's long-term debt ratings or, at the election of AIG and as an alternative
to posting collateral and subject to certain conditions, repayment by AIG of the transactions or arrangement by AIG of a substitute guarantee of AIG's obligations by an obligor with higher debt
ratings. The actual amount of collateral required to be posted to the counterparties in the event of such downgrades, or the aggregate amount of payments that AIG could be required to make, depends on
market conditions, the fair value of outstanding affected transactions and other factors prevailing at and after the time of the downgrade. The fair value of securities pledged as collateral with
respect to these obligations approximated $5.1 billion and $5.7 billion at December 31, 2011 and December 31, 2010, respectively. This collateral primarily consists of
securities of U.S. government and government sponsored entities and generally cannot be repledged or resold by the counterparties.   

Notes and Bonds Payable at Fair Value            

      Direct Investment book notes and bonds also include structured debt instruments whose payment terms are linked to one or more financial or other
indices (such as an equity index or commodity index or another measure that is not considered to be clearly and closely related to the debt instrument). These notes contain embedded derivatives that
otherwise would be required to be accounted for separately. The notes and bonds payable, including the structured debt instruments, are accounted for using the fair value option. The fair value of
these obligations was determined by reference to quoted market prices, where available and appropriate, or discounted cash flow calculations based upon AIG's current market-observable
implicit-credit-spread rates for similar types of obligations with maturities consistent with those remaining for the debt being valued.   

   The following table presents a range of maturities and interest rates by currency for AIG's borrowings supported by assets:   

The Direct Investment book economically hedges its notes, bonds and GIAs. As a result, certain of the interest rate or currency exposures set
forth in the table above have been hedged with floating rate instruments so the stated rates may not be reflective of the all-in cost of funding after taking into account the related
hedges. AIG Parent guarantees all Direct Investment book debt, except for MIP notes payable and series AIGFP matched notes and bonds payable, which are direct obligations of AIG, Inc.   

  AIG 2011 Form 10-K            305  

Table of Contents   

   American International Group, Inc.  

   NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS    

ILFC   

   The following table presents maturities of ILFC:   

(a)       Reflects future minimum payment for ILFC's borrowings under the 2004 Export Credit Agency (ECA) Facility.   
       (b)      Includes $97 million of secured financings that are non-recourse to
ILFC.   
       (c)      AIG does not guarantee these borrowings.    

Notes and Bonds Payable            

      At December 31, 2011, notes aggregating $13.6 billion were outstanding, consisting of $8.1 billion of term notes and
$5.5 billion of medium-term notes with maturities ranging from 2012 to 2022 and interest rates ranging from 0.75 percent to 8.88 percent. Notes aggregating
$800 million are at floating interest rates and the remainder are at fixed rates. ILFC enters into swap transactions to manage its effective borrowing rates with respect to these notes.   

      On
May 24, 2011, ILFC issued $2.25 billion aggregate principal amount of senior unsecured notes, with $1.0 billion maturing in 2016 and $1.25 billion maturing
in 2019. On June 17, 2011, ILFC completed tender offers for the
purchase of approximately $1.67 billion aggregate principal amount of notes with maturity dates in 2012 and 2013 for total cash consideration, including accrued interest, of approximately
$1.75 billion. ILFC recorded a $61 million loss on the extinguishment of debt. On December 22, 2011, ILFC issued $650 million aggregate principal amount of
8.625 percent senior unsecured notes maturing in 2022.   

      On
December 7, 2010, ILFC issued $1.0 billion aggregate principal amount of 8.25 percent senior notes due December 15, 2020.   

      On
August 20, 2010, ILFC issued $500 million aggregate principal amount of 8.875 percent senior notes due September 1, 2017. Part of the proceeds from this
debt issuance was used to repay loans from AIG, and then used by AIG to reduce the principal amount outstanding under the FRBNY Credit Facility.   

      On
March 22, 2010 and April 6, 2010, ILFC issued a combined $1.25 billion aggregate principal amount of 8.625 percent senior notes due September 15,
2015, and $1.5 billion aggregate principal amount of 8.750 percent senior notes due March 15, 2017 in private placements. The notes are due in full on their scheduled maturity
dates.   

      In
addition, ILFC had a Euro medium-term note program, which it did not renew when it expired in 2011. All outstanding notes, aggregating $1.2 billion, were repaid at
their maturity in August 2011. Notes issued under the Euro medium-term note program are included in ILFC "Notes and bonds payable" in the preceding table of borrowings.   

Junior Subordinated Debt            

      In December 2005, ILFC issued two tranches of junior subordinated debt totaling $1.0 billion. Both tranches mature on December 21,
2065, but each tranche has a different call option. The $600 million tranche had a call option date of December 21, 2010, and the $400 million tranche has a call option date of
December 21, 2015. ILFC did not exercise the call option at December 21, 2010 and the interest rate on the $600 million tranche   

  306            AIG 2011 Form 10-K  

Table of Contents   

   American International Group, Inc.  

   NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS    

changed
from a fixed interest rate of 5.90 percent to a floating rate with an initial credit spread of 1.55 percent plus the highest of (i) 3 month LIBOR;
(ii) 10-year constant maturity treasury; and (iii) 30-year constant maturity treasury. The interest rate will reset quarterly. The $400 million tranche has
a fixed interest rate of 6.25 percent until the 2015 call option date, and, if ILFC does not exercise the call option, the interest rate will change to a floating rate, reset quarterly, based
on the initial credit spread of 1.80 percent plus the highest of (i) 3 month LIBOR; (ii) 10-year constant maturity treasury; and
(iii) 30-year constant maturity treasury. If ILFC chooses to redeem the $600 million tranche, 100 percent of the principal amount of the bonds being redeemed, plus any
accrued and unpaid interest to the
redemption date must be paid. If ILFC chooses to redeem only a portion of the outstanding bonds, at least $50 million principal amount of the bonds must remain outstanding.   

Export Credit Agency Facility            

      ILFC had a $4.3 billion 1999 Export Credit Agency Facility (1999 ECA Facility) that was used in connection with the purchase of 62 Airbus
aircraft delivered through 2001. At December 31, 2010, ILFC had five loans with a remaining principal balance of $13 million outstanding under this facility. In January 2011, all of the
amounts under the five remaining loans were repaid in full and no amounts remained outstanding under the 1999 ECA Facility.   

      ILFC
has a similarly structured 2004 Export Credit Agency Facility (2004 ECA Facility), which was amended in May 2009 to allow ILFC to borrow up to a maximum of $4.6 billion to
fund the purchase of Airbus aircraft delivered through June 30, 2010. This facility is guaranteed by various European Export Credit Agencies. The interest rates are either LIBOR based with
spreads ranging from (0.04) percent to 2.25 percent or at fixed rates ranging from 3.40 percent to 4.71 percent. ILFC financed 76 aircraft using approximately $4.3 billion
under this facility and approximately $2.3 billion and $2.8 billion were outstanding at December 31, 2011 and December 31, 2010, respectively. At December 31, 2011,
the interest rate of the loans outstanding ranged from 0.44 percent to 4.71 percent. At December 31, 2010, the interest rate of the loans outstanding ranged from
0.43 percent to 4.71 percent. The debt is collateralized by a pledge of shares of a subsidiary of ILFC, which holds title to the aircraft financed under the facility. The net book value
of the related aircraft was $4.3 billion at both December 31, 2011 and December 31, 2010.   

      ILFC's
current credit ratings require (i) the segregation of security deposits, maintenance reserves and rental payments received for aircraft funded under its 2004 ECA Facilities
into separate accounts, controlled by the trustees of the 2004 ECA Facilities; and (ii) the filings of individual mortgages on the aircraft funded under the facility in the respective local
jurisdictions in which the aircraft is registered. At December 31, 2011, ILFC had segregated security deposits, maintenance reserves and rental payments aggregating $415 million related
to such aircraft. Segregated rental payments are used to pay scheduled principal and interest on the 2004 ECA Facility as they become due.   

      During
2010, ILFC entered into agreements to cross-collateralize the two ECA Facilities. In conjunction with the agreement, ILFC agreed to an acceleration event, which would accelerate
debt related to the ten aircraft financed during 2010 if, among other things, ILFC were to sell aircraft with an aggregate net book value exceeding an agreed upon amount, currently approximately
$10.1 billion, within a period starting from the date of the agreement until December 31, 2012.   

      Borrowings
with respect to these facilities are included in ILFC's notes and bonds payable in the preceding table of borrowings. New financings are no longer available to ILFC under
either the 1999 or 2004 ECA facility.   

Bank Financings and Other Secured Financings            

      In 2010, ILFC amended its $2.5 billion revolving credit facility to, among other things, extend the maturity date of $2.16 billion
from October 2011 to October 2012, with the loan secured by aircraft with an appraised value of not less than 133 percent of the principal amount of the outstanding loans, and increased the
interest rate by 150   

  AIG 2011 Form 10-K            307  

Table of Contents   

   American International Group, Inc.  

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS    

basis
points resulting in an interest rate of 2.44 percent. As of December 31, 2011, ILFC had paid down $2.0 billion of this revolving credit facility. The amended facility
prohibits ILFC from re-borrowing amounts repaid under this facility for any reason; therefore, the size of the outstanding facility and the total funded amount under the credit facility
was $457 million at December 31, 2011. The interest rate of the credit facility was 2.44 percent at December 31, 2011.   

      At
December 31, 2011, AeroTurbine Inc., a wholly-owned subsidiary of ILFC, had a balance of $269 million on its secured four-year credit facility. The
maturity of the credit facility is December 2015 and the interest rate is 3.28 percent. ILFC is a guarantor under the four-year credit facility.   

      In
addition, at December 31, 2011, ILFC has other secured financings of approximately $6.7 billion that mature through 2018, with interest rates ranging from
3.33 percent to 7.13 percent.   

      On
August 20, 2010, ILFC issued $1.35 billion aggregate principal amount of 6.5 percent senior secured notes due September 1, 2014, $1.275 billion of
aggregate principal amount of 6.75 percent senior secured notes due September 1, 2016, and $1.275 billion of aggregate principal amount of 7.125 percent senior secured
notes due September 1, 2018. The proceeds from these debt issuances were used to repay loans from AIG, and then used by AIG to reduce the principal amount outstanding under the FRBNY Credit
Facility.   

      On
March 17, 2010, ILFC entered into a $750 million term loan agreement secured by 43 aircraft and all related equipment and leases. The loan matures on March 17,
2015, and bears interest at LIBOR plus a margin of 4.75 percent with a LIBOR floor of 2.0 percent. The principal of the loan is payable in full at maturity with no scheduled
amortization; however, ILFC has the right to voluntarily prepay the loan at any time. On March 17, 2010, ILFC also entered into an additional term loan agreement of $550 million, of
which $63 million is subject to the satisfaction of certain collateralization milestones. The loan is secured by 37 aircraft and all related equipment and leases. The loan matures on
March 17, 2016, and bears interest at LIBOR plus a margin of 5.0 percent with a LIBOR floor of 2.0 percent. The principal of the loan is payable in full at maturity with no
scheduled amortization; however, ILFC has the right to voluntarily prepay the loan at any time, subject to a 1.0 percent prepayment penalty prior to March 17, 2012.   

AIG
does not guarantee any of the debt obligations of ILFC.   

   Uncollateralized and collateralized notes, bonds, loans and mortgages payable consisted of the following:   

*       AIG does not guarantee any of these borrowings.    

16. COMMITMENTS, CONTINGENCIES AND  GUARANTEES    

      In the normal course of business, various commitments and contingent liabilities are entered into by AIG and certain of its subsidiaries. In
addition, AIG guarantees various obligations of certain subsidiaries.   

      Although
AIG cannot currently quantify its ultimate liability for unresolved litigation and investigation matters, including those referred to below, it is possible that such liability
could have a material adverse effect on AIG's consolidated financial condition or its consolidated results of operations or consolidated cash flows for an individual reporting period.   

  308            AIG 2011 Form 10-K  

Table of Contents   

   American International Group, Inc.  

   NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS    

(A) LITIGATION AND INVESTIGATIONS   

        Overview.       AIG and its subsidiaries, in common with the insurance and financial services industries in general, are subject to litigation, including
claims for punitive damages, in the normal course of their business. In AIG's insurance operations (including UGC), litigation arising from claims settlement activities is generally considered in the
establishment of AIG's liability for unpaid claims and claims adjustment expense. However, the potential for increasing jury awards and settlements makes it difficult to assess the ultimate outcome of
such litigation. AIG is also subject to derivative, class action and other claims asserted by its shareholders and others alleging, among other things, breach of fiduciary duties by its directors and
officers and violations of insurance laws and regulations, as well as federal and state securities laws. In the case of any derivative action brought on behalf of AIG, any recovery would accrue to the
benefit of AIG.   

      Various
regulatory and governmental agencies have been reviewing certain public disclosures, transactions and practices of AIG and its subsidiaries in connection with
industry-wide and other inquiries into, among other matters, AIG's liquidity, compensation paid to certain employees, payments made to counterparties, and certain business practices and
valuations of current and former operating insurance subsidiaries. AIG has cooperated, and will continue to cooperate, in producing documents and other information in response to subpoenas and other
requests.   

      AIG's
life insurance companies have received industry-wide regulatory inquiries, including a multi-state audit covering compliance with unclaimed property laws and a
directive from the New York Insurance Department (the New York Directive) regarding claims settlement practices. In particular, the above referenced multi-state audit seeks to require insurers to use
the Social Security Death Master File (SSDMF) to identify potential deceased insureds, notwithstanding that the beneficiary or other payee has not presented the company with a valid claim, to
determine whether a claim is payable and to take appropriate action. The multi-state audit covers certain policies in force at any time since 1992. The New York Directive generally requires a similar
review and action although the time frame under review is different.   

      AIG
recorded an increase of $202 million in the estimated reserves for incurred but not reported death claims in 2011 in conjunction with the use of the SSDMF to identify
potential claims not yet presented. Although AIG has enhanced its claims practices to include use of the SSDMF, it is possible that the inquiries, audits and other regulatory activity could result in
the payment of additional death claims, additional escheatment of funds deemed abandoned under state laws, administrative penalties and interest. AIG believes it is adequately reserved for such
claims, but there can be no assurance that the ultimate cost will not vary, perhaps materially, from its estimate. Additionally, state regulators are considering a variety of proposals that would
require life insurance companies to take additional steps to identify unreported deceased policy holders.   

      The
National Association of Insurance Commissioners Market Analysis Working Group, led by the states of Ohio and Iowa, is conducting a multi-state examination of certain accident and
health products, including travel products, issued by National Union Fire Insurance Company of Pittsburgh, Pa. (National Union). The examination formally commenced in September 2010 after National
Union, based on the identification of certain regulatory issues related to the conduct of its accident and health insurance business, including rate and form issues, producer licensing and
appointment, and vendor management, requested that state regulators collectively conduct an examination of the regulatory issues in its accident and health business. In addition to Ohio and Iowa, the
lead states in the multi-state examination are Minnesota, New Jersey and Pennsylvania, and currently a total of 38 states have agreed to participate in the multi-state examination. As part of the
multi-state examination, the following Interim Consent Orders were entered into with Ohio: (a) on January 7, 2011, in which National Union agreed, on a nationwide basis, to cease
marketing directly to individual bank customers accident/sickness policy forms that had been approved to be sold only as policies providing blanket coverage, and to certain related remediation and
audit procedures and (b) on February 14, 2012, in which National Union agreed, on a nationwide basis, to limit outbound telemarketing to certain forms and rates. A Consent Order was
entered into with Minnesota on February 10, 2012, in which National Union and Travel Guard Group Inc., an AIG subsidiary,   

  AIG 2011 Form 10-K            309  

Table of Contents   

   American International Group, Inc.  

   NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS    

agreed
to (i) cease automatically enrolling Minnesota residents in certain insurance relating to air travel, (ii) pay a civil penalty to Minnesota of $250,000 and (iii) refund
premium to Minnesota residents who were automatically enrolled in certain insurance relating to air travel. In early 2012, Chartis U.S., Inc., on behalf of itself, National Union, and certain
of Chartis U.S., Inc.'s insurance companies (collectively, Chartis U.S.) and the lead regulators agreed in principle upon certain terms to resolve the multi-state examination. The terms include
Chartis U.S.'s
(i) payment of a civil penalty of up to $51 million, (ii) agreement to enter into a corrective action plan describing agreed-upon specific steps and standards for
evaluating Chartis U.S.'s ongoing compliance with laws and regulations governing the regulatory issues identified in the examination, and (iii) agreement to pay a contingent fine in the event
that Chartis U.S. fails to substantially comply with the steps and standards agreed to in the corrective action plan. As of December 31, 2011, AIG has an accrued liability equal to the amount
of the civil penalty under the proposed agreement. As the terms outlined above are subject to agreement by the lead and participating states and appropriate agreements or orders, AIG (i) can
give no assurance that these terms will not change prior to a final resolution of the multi-state examination that is binding on all parties and (ii) cannot predict what other regulatory
action, if any, will result from resolving the multi-state examination. There can be no assurance that any regulatory action resulting from the issues identified will not have a material adverse
effect on AIG's consolidated results of operations for an individual reporting period, the ongoing operations of the business being examined, or on similar business written by other AIG carriers.
National Union and other AIG companies are also currently subject to civil litigation relating to the conduct of their accident and health business, and may be subject to additional litigation
relating to the conduct of such business from time to time in the ordinary course.   

      Industry-wide
examinations conducted by the Minnesota Department of Insurance and the Department of Housing and Urban Development (HUD) on captive reinsurance practices by
lenders and mortgage insurance companies, including UGC, have been ongoing for several years. Recently, the newly formed Consumer Financial Protection Bureau assumed responsibility for violations of
the Real Estate Settlement Procedures Act from HUD, and assumed HUD's aforementioned ongoing investigation. UGC recently received a proposed consent order from the Minnesota Commissioner of Commerce
(the MN Commissioner) which alleges that UGC violated the Real Estate Settlement Procedures Act, the Fair Credit Reporting Act and other state and federal laws in connection with its practices with
captive reinsurance companies owned by lenders. UGC is currently engaged in discussions with the MN Commissioner with respect to the terms of the proposed consent order. UGC cannot predict if or when
a consent order may be entered into or, if entered into, what the terms of the final consent order will be. UGC is also currently subject to civil litigation relating to its placement of reinsurance
with captives owned by lenders, and may be subject to additional litigation relating to the conduct of such business from time to time in the ordinary course.   

AIG's Subprime Exposure, AIGFP Credit Default Swap Portfolio and Related Matters            

      AIG, AIGFP and certain directors and officers of AIG, AIGFP and other AIG subsidiaries have been named in various actions relating to AIG's
exposure to the U.S. residential subprime mortgage market, unrealized market valuation losses on AIGFP's super senior credit default swap portfolio, losses and liquidity constraints relating to AIG's
securities lending program and related disclosure and other matters (Subprime Exposure Issues).   

        Consolidated 2008 Securities Litigation.       Between May 21, 2008 and January 15, 2009, eight purported securities class action complaints
were filed against AIG and certain directors and officers of AIG and AIGFP, AIG's outside auditors, and the underwriters of various securities offerings in the United States District Court for the
Southern District of New York (the Southern District of New York), alleging claims under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 (the Exchange Act) or claims under the Securities Act of 1933 (the
Securities Act). On March 20, 2009, the Court consolidated all eight of the purported securities class actions as In re American International Group, Inc. 2008 Securities Litigation (the
Consolidated 2008 Securities Litigation). Subsequently, on November 18, 2011 and January 20, 2012, two separate, though similar, securities actions were brought against   

310            AIG 2011 Form 10-K  

Table of Contents   

   American International Group, Inc.  

   NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS    

AIG
and certain directors and officers of AIG and AIGFP by the Kuwait Investment Office and various Oppenheimer Funds, respectively.   

On
May 19, 2009, lead plaintiff in the Consolidated 2008 Securities Litigation filed a consolidated complaint on behalf of purchasers of AIG Common Stock during the alleged class
period of March 16, 2006 through September 16, 2008, and on behalf of purchasers of various AIG securities offered pursuant to AIG's shelf registration statements. The consolidated
complaint alleges that defendants made statements during the class period in press releases, AIG's quarterly and year-end filings, during conference calls, and in various registration
statements and prospectuses in connection with the various offerings that were materially false and misleading and that artificially inflated the price of AIG Common Stock. The alleged false and
misleading statements relate to, among other things, the Subprime Exposure Issues. The consolidated complaint alleges violations of Sections 10(b) and 20(a) of the Exchange Act and
Sections 11, 12(a)(2), and 15 of the Securities Act. On August 5, 2009, defendants filed motions to dismiss the consolidated complaint, and on September 27, 2010, the Court denied
the motions to dismiss.   

      On
November 24, 2010 and December 10, 2010, AIG and all other defendants filed answers to the consolidated complaint denying the material allegations therein and asserting
their defenses.   

      On
April 1, 2011, the lead plaintiff in the Consolidated 2008 Securities Litigation filed a motion to certify a class of plaintiffs. On November 2, 2011, the Court
terminated the motion without prejudice to an application for restoration.   

      As
of February 23, 2012, plaintiffs in the Consolidated 2008 Securities Litigation have not specified an amount of alleged damages, discovery is ongoing and the Court has not determined
if a class action is appropriate or the size or scope of any class. As a result, AIG is unable to reasonably estimate the possible loss or range of losses, if any, arising from the litigation.   

      As
of February 23, 2012, the actions initiated by the Kuwait Investment Office and various Oppenheimer Funds are in their early stages, no discussions concerning potential damages have
occurred and the plaintiffs have not specified an amount of alleged damages in their respective actions. As a result, AIG is unable to reasonably estimate the possible loss or range of losses, if any,
arising from these litigations.   

        ERISA Actions   Southern District of New York.       Between June 25, 2008, and November 25, 2008, AIG, certain directors
and officers of AIG, and members of AIG's Retirement Board and Investment Committee were named as defendants in eight purported class action complaints asserting claims on behalf of participants in
certain pension plans sponsored by AIG or its subsidiaries. On March 19, 2009, the Court consolidated these eight actions as In re American International Group, Inc. ERISA Litigation II.
On June 26, 2009, lead plaintiffs' counsel filed a consolidated amended complaint. The action purports to be brought as a class action under the Employee Retirement Income Security Act of 1974,
as amended (ERISA), on behalf of all participants in or beneficiaries of certain benefit plans of AIG and its subsidiaries that offered shares of AIG Common Stock. In the consolidated amended
complaint, plaintiffs allege, among other things, that the defendants breached their fiduciary responsibilities to plan participants and their beneficiaries under ERISA, by continuing to offer the AIG
Stock Fund as an investment option in the plans after it allegedly became imprudent to do so. The alleged ERISA violations relate to, among other things, the defendants' purported failure to monitor
and/or disclose certain matters, including the Subprime Exposure Issues. On September 18, 2009, defendants filed motions to dismiss the consolidated amended complaint.   

On
March 31, 2011, the Court granted defendants' motions to dismiss with respect to one plan at issue, and denied defendants' motions to dismiss with respect to the other two
plans at issue.   

  AIG 2011 Form 10-K            311  

Table of Contents    

   American International Group, Inc.   

   NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS     

      On August 5, 2011, AIG and all other defendants filed answers to the consolidated complaint denying the material allegations therein and asserting their
defenses.   

      As
of February 23, 2012, plaintiffs have not specified an amount of alleged damages, discovery is ongoing, and the Court has not determined if a class action is appropriate or the
size or scope of any class. As a result, AIG is unable to reasonably estimate the possible loss or range of losses, if any, arising from the litigation.   

        Consolidated 2007 Derivative Litigation.       On November 20, 2007 and August 6, 2008, purported shareholder derivative actions were filed
in the Southern District of New York naming as defendants directors and officers of AIG and
its subsidiaries and asserting claims on behalf of nominal defendant AIG. The actions have been consolidated as In re American International Group, Inc. 2007 Derivative Litigation (the
Consolidated 2007 Derivative Litigation). On June 3, 2009, lead plaintiff filed a consolidated amended complaint naming additional directors and officers of AIG and its subsidiaries as
defendants. As amended, the factual allegations include the Subprime Exposure Issues and AIG and AIGFP employee retention payments and related compensation issues. The claims asserted on behalf of
nominal defendant AIG include breach of fiduciary duty, waste of corporate assets, unjust enrichment, contribution and violations of Sections 10(b) and 20(a) of the Exchange Act. On
August 5 and 26, 2009, AIG and defendants filed motions to dismiss the consolidated amended complaint. On December 18, 2009, a separate action, previously commenced in the United States
District Court for the Central District of California (Central District of California) and transferred to the Southern District of New York on June 5, 2009, was consolidated into the
Consolidated 2007 Derivative Litigation and dismissed without prejudice to the pursuit of the claims in the Consolidated 2007 Derivative Litigation.   

On
March 30, 2010, the Court dismissed the action due to plaintiff's failure to make a pre-suit demand on AIG's Board of Directors. On March 17, 2011, the
United States Court of Appeals for the Second Circuit (the Second Circuit) affirmed the Southern District of New York's dismissal of the Consolidated 2007 Derivative Litigation due to plaintiff's
failure to make a pre-suit demand.   

      On
August 10, 2011 and August 15, 2011, the plaintiff that brought the Consolidated 2007 Derivative Litigation sent letters to AIG's Board of Directors (the Board)
demanding that the Board cause AIG to pursue the claims asserted in the Consolidated 2007 Derivative Litigation. On September 13, 2011, the Board rejected the demand.   

Other Derivative Actions.       Separate purported derivative actions, alleging similar claims as the Consolidated 2007 Derivative Litigation, have been
brought asserting claims on behalf of the nominal defendant AIG in various jurisdictions. These actions are described below:   

Supreme Court of New York, Nassau County.       On
February 29, 2008, a purported shareholder derivative complaint was filed in the Supreme Court of Nassau County, naming as defendants certain directors and officers of AIG and its subsidiaries.
On March 9, 2009, this action was stayed.     
            Supreme Court of New York, New York County.       On
March 20, 2009, a purported shareholder derivative complaint was filed in the Supreme Court of New York County naming as defendants certain directors and officers of AIG and recipients of AIGFP
retention payments. The complaint has not been served on any defendant.     
            Delaware Court of Chancery.       On September 17, 2008, a
purported shareholder derivative complaint was filed in the Delaware Court of Chancery, naming as defendants certain directors and officers of AIG and its subsidiaries. On July 17, 2009 the
case was stayed. On May 4, 2011, the parties filed a stipulation with the court agreeing to lift the stay, and granting plaintiff leave to file an amended complaint. On June 17, 2011,
AIG filed a motion to dismiss the second amended complaint due to plaintiff's failure to make a pre-suit demand on the Board. On February 1, 2012, the Court approved a stipulation
between the parties, dismissing the second amended complaint with prejudice.    

312            AIG 2011 Form 10-K  

Table of Contents   

   American International Group, Inc.  

   NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS    

Superior Court for the State of California, Los Angeles
County.       On November 20, 2009, a purported shareholder derivative complaint was filed in the Superior Court for the State of California, Los Angeles County,
naming as defendants certain directors and officers of AIG and its subsidiaries. On February 9, 2010, the case was stayed.    

Southern District of New York.       On January 4, 2011, Wanda Mimms, a participant in the AIG Incentive Savings Plan (the Plan), filed a purported
derivative action on behalf of the Plan in the United States District Court for the Southern District of New York against PricewaterhouseCoopers, LLP (PwC) and asserting a claim for
professional malpractice in conducting audits of AIG's 2007 financial statements. The complaint, as amended on April 20, 2011, also asserts a claim for breach of fiduciary duty under ERISA
against members of the Plan's Retirement Board for failing to pursue a claim for professional malpractice on behalf of the Plan against PwC. On July 6, 2011, the Plan and defendants filed
motions to dismiss the amended complaint. On February 16, 2012, the Court granted the motions to dismiss and dismissed the amended complaint without leave to replead.   

        Canadian Securities Class Action   Ontario Superior Court of Justice.       On November 12, 2008, an application was filed in the
Ontario Superior Court of Justice for leave to bring a purported class action against AIG, AIGFP, certain directors and officers of AIG and Joseph Cassano, the former Chief Executive Officer of AIGFP,
pursuant to the Ontario Securities Act. If the Court grants the application, a class plaintiff will be permitted to file a statement of claim against defendants. The proposed statement of claim
would assert a class period of November 10, 2006 through September 16, 2008 (later amended to March 16, 2006 through September 16, 2008) and would allege that during this
period defendants made false and misleading statements and omissions in quarterly and annual reports and during oral presentations in violation of the Ontario Securities Act.   

On
April 17, 2009, defendants filed a motion record in support of their motion to stay or dismiss for lack of jurisdiction and forum non conveniens. On July 12, 2010, the
Court adjourned a hearing on the motion pending a
decision by the Supreme Court of Canada in another action with respect to similar issues raised in the action pending against AIG.   

      In
plaintiff's proposed statement of claim, plaintiff alleged general and special damages of $500 million, and punitive damages of $50 million plus prejudgment interest or
such other sums as the Court finds appropriate. As of February 23, 2012, the Court has not determined whether it has jurisdiction or granted plaintiff's application to file a statement
of claim and no merits discovery has occurred. As a result, AIG is unable to reasonably estimate the possible loss or range of losses, if any, arising from the litigation.   

        Starr International Litigation      On November 21, 2011, Starr International Company, Inc. (SICO) filed a complaint against
the Department of the Treasury in the United States Court of Federal Claims, bringing claims, both individually and on behalf of all others similarly situated and derivatively on behalf of AIG (the
Starr Treasury Action). The complaint challenges the government's assistance of AIG, pursuant to which AIG entered into the FRBNY Credit Facility and the Department of the Treasury received an
approximately 80 percent ownership in AIG. The complaint alleges that the interest rate imposed on AIG and the appropriation of approximately 80 percent of AIG's equity was
discriminatory, unprecedented, and inconsistent with liquidity assistance offered by the Government to other comparable firms at the time and violated the Equal Protection, Due Process, and Takings
Clauses of the U.S. Constitution.   

      On
the same day that SICO commenced the Starr Treasury Action, SICO also filed a second complaint in the United States District Court in the Southern District of New York, this one
against the FRBNY bringing claims, both individually and on behalf of all others similarly situated and derivatively on behalf of AIG. This complaint also challenges the Government's assistance of
AIG, pursuant to which AIG entered into the FRBNY Credit Facility and the Department of the Treasury received an approximately 80 percent ownership in AIG. The complaint alleges that the FRBNY
owed fiduciary duties to AIG as a controlling shareholder of AIG, and that the FRBNY breached these fiduciary duties by "divert[ing] the rights and assets of AIG and its
shareholders to itself and favored third parties" through transactions involving ML III, an entity controlled by FRBNY, and by   

  AIG 2011 Form 10-K            313  

Table of Contents   

   American International Group, Inc.  

   NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS    

"participating
in, and causing AIG's officers and directors to participate in, the evasion of AIG's existing Common Stock shareholders' right to approve the massive issuance of the new Common Shares
required to complete the Government's taking of a nearly 80 percent interest in the Common Stock of AIG." SICO also alleges that the "FRBNY has asserted that in exercising its control over, and
acting on behalf of, AIG it did not act in an official, governmental capacity or at the direction of the Department of the Treasury," but that "[t]o the extent the proof at or
prior to trial shows that the FRBNY did in fact act in a governmental capacity, or at the direction of the Department of the Treasury, the improper conduct . . . constitutes the discriminatory takings
of the property and property rights of AIG without due process or just compensation."   

      In
both of the actions commenced by SICO, the only claims naming AIG as a party are derivative claims on behalf of AIG, and AIG thus faces no potential damages. The FRBNY has requested
indemnification under the FRBNY Credit Facility from AIG in connection with the action against it and AIG is discussing the request and
its scope with the FRBNY. On January 31, 2012 and February 1, 2012, amended complaints were filed in the Court of Claims and the Southern District of New York, respectively. These
amended complaints contain additional factual allegations, but do not contain any new claims against the Department of Treasury, the FRBNY or AIG.   

Other Litigation Related to AIGFP            

      On September 30, 2009, Brookfield Asset Management, Inc. and Brysons International, Ltd. (together, Brookfield) filed a
complaint against AIG and AIGFP in the Southern District of New York. Brookfield seeks a declaration that a 1990 interest rate swap agreement between Brookfield and AIGFP (guaranteed by AIG)
terminated upon the occurrence of certain alleged events that Brookfield contends constituted defaults under the swap agreement's standard "bankruptcy" default provision. Brookfield claims that it is
excused from all future payment obligations under the swap agreement on the basis of the purported termination. At December 31, 2011, the estimated present value of expected future cash flows
discounted at LIBOR was $1.5 billion, which represents AIG's maximum contractual loss from the alleged termination of the contract. It is AIG's position that no termination event has occurred
and that the swap agreement remains in effect. A determination that a termination event has occurred could result in AIG losing its entitlement to all future payments under the swap agreement and
result in a loss to AIG of the full value at which AIG is carrying the swap agreement.   

      Additionally,
a determination that AIG triggered a "bankruptcy" event of default under the swap agreement could also, depending on the Court's precise holding, affect other AIG or AIGFP
agreements that contain the same or similar default provisions. Such a determination could also affect derivative agreements or other contracts between third parties, such as credit default swaps
under which AIG is a reference credit, which could affect the trading price of AIG securities. During the third quarter of 2011, beneficiaries of certain previously repaid AIGFP guaranteed investment
agreements brought an action against AIG Parent and AIGFP making "bankruptcy" event of default allegations similar to those made by Brookfield. AIG has moved to dismiss that complaint.   

      On
December 17, 2009, AIG and AIGFP filed a motion to dismiss Brookfield's complaint. On September 28, 2010, the Court issued a decision granting defendants' motion in part
and denying it in part, holding that the complaint: (i) failed to allege that an event of default had occurred based upon defendants' failure to pay or inability to pay debts as they became
due; but, (ii) sufficiently alleged that an event of default had occurred based upon other sections of the swap agreement's "bankruptcy" default provision. On January 26, 2011,
Brookfield filed an amended complaint that sought to reassert, on the basis of additional factual allegations, the claims that were dismissed from the initial complaint. While AIG initially moved to
dismiss the claim that Brookfield sought to reassert in its amended complaint, after Brookfield filed a second amended complaint on September 15, 2011, AIG informed the Court that, in light of
the advanced stage of fact discovery in the case, it intends to defer seeking to dismiss Brookfield's claims until motions for summary judgment have been filed, when the discovery record can be
considered. AIG and AIGFP filed an answer to the second amended complaint on November 8, 2011. Fact discovery is currently scheduled to conclude on May 15, 2012.   

  314            AIG 2011 Form 10-K  

Table of Contents   

   American International Group, Inc.  

   NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS    

Securities Lending Dispute with Transatlantic Holdings Inc.            

      On May 24, 2010, Transatlantic Holdings, Inc. (Transatlantic) and two of its subsidiaries, Transatlantic Reinsurance Company and
Trans Re Zurich Reinsurance Company Ltd. (collectively, Claimants), commenced an arbitration proceeding before the American Arbitration Association in New York against AIG and two of its
subsidiaries (the AIG Respondents). Claimants allege breach of contract, breach of fiduciary duty, and common law fraud in connection with certain securities lending agency agreements between AIG's
subsidiaries and Claimants. Claimants allege that AIG and its subsidiaries should be liable for the losses that Claimants purport to have suffered in connection with securities lending and investment
activities, and seek damages of $350 million and other unspecified damages.   

      On
June 29, 2010, AIG brought a petition in the Supreme Court of the State of New York, seeking to enjoin the arbitration on the ground that AIG is not a party to the securities
lending agency agreements with Claimants. On July 29, 2010, the parties agreed to resolve that petition by consolidating the arbitration commenced by Claimants with a separate arbitration,
commenced by AIG on June 29, 2010, in which AIG is seeking damages of Euro 17.6 million ($22.8 million at the December 31, 2011 exchange rate) from Transatlantic for
breach of a Master Separation Agreement among Transatlantic, AIG and one of its subsidiary companies.   

      On
September 13, 2010, the AIG Respondents submitted an answer to Claimants' claims asserting, among other things, that there was no breach of the securities lending agency
agreements, and that Claimants' other allegations including purported breach of fiduciary duty and fraud are not meritorious. Transatlantic submitted an answer denying liability with respect to AIG's
claim on September 13, 2010. Claimants recently increased its claimed damages to an amount of approximately $500 million.   

On
January 26, 2012, AIG Respondents and Claimants reached a binding agreement to terminate the arbitration proceedings and to dismiss all claims between the parties without any
admission of liability by any of the parties. Pursuant to the agreement, the parties will first seek to reach an overall mediated settlement of the claims in the arbitration proceeding along with
various other business matters that were not at issue in the arbitration. If a mediated resolution including all claims and outstanding business issues cannot be reached by April 30, 2012, then
the parties will try to reach a mediated resolution of the securities lending claims only, including a settlement payment to Transatlantic between $45 million and $125 million. If the
parties cannot reach such resolution, the parties have agreed that the mediator will, by June 1, 2012, determine the amount of a settlement payment to Transatlantic with respect to the
securities lending claims in a range between $45 million and $125 million. Accordingly, AIG has accrued an amount it believes is reasonable for this settlement.   

Employment Litigation against AIG and AIG Global Real Estate Investment Corporation            

        Fitzpatrick matter.       On December 9, 2009, AIG Global Real Estate Investment Corporation's (AIGGRE) former President, Kevin P. Fitzpatrick,
several entities he controls, and various other single purpose entities (the SPEs) filed a complaint in the Supreme Court of the State of New York, New York County against AIG and AIGGRE (the
Defendants). The case was removed to the Southern District of New York, and an amended complaint was filed on March 8, 2010. The amended complaint asserts that the Defendants violated fiduciary
duties to Fitzpatrick and his controlled entities and breached Fitzpatrick's employment agreement and agreements of SPEs that purportedly entitled him to carried interest fees arising out of the sale
or disposition of certain real estate. Fitzpatrick has also brought derivative claims on behalf of the SPEs, purporting to allege that the Defendants breached contractual and fiduciary duties in
failing to fund the SPEs with various amounts allegedly due under the SPE agreements. Fitzpatrick has also requested injunctive relief, an accounting, and that a receiver be appointed to manage the
affairs of the SPEs. He has further alleged that the SPEs are subject to a constructive trust. Fitzpatrick also has alleged a violation of ERISA relating to retirement benefits purportedly due.
Fitzpatrick has claimed that he is currently owed damages totaling approximately $196 million, and that potential future amounts owed to him are approximately $78 million, for a total of
approximately $274 million. Fitzpatrick further   

  AIG 2011 Form 10-K            315  

Table of Contents   

   American International Group, Inc.  

   NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS    

  claims
unspecified amounts of carried interest on certain additional real estate assets of AIG and its affiliates. He also seeks punitive damages for the alleged breaches of fiduciary duties.
Defendants assert that Fitzpatrick has been paid all amounts currently due and owing pursuant to the various agreements through which he seeks recovery. As set forth above, the possible range of loss
to AIG is $0 to $274 million, although Fitzpatrick claims that he is also entitled to additional unspecified amounts of carried interest and punitive damages.   

      Defendants
filed counterclaims against Fitzpatrick and a motion to dismiss. On September 28, 2010, the Court dismissed the Defendants' counterclaims, and denied Defendants' motion
to dismiss. On March 14, 2011, both plaintiffs and defendants filed motions for partial summary judgment. Those motions are still pending, and no trial date has been set.   

        Behm matter.       Frank Behm, former President of AIG Global Real Estate Asia Pacific, Inc. ("AIGGREAP"), has filed two actions in connection with
the termination of his employment. Behm filed an action on or about October 1, 2010 in Delaware Superior Court in which he asserts claims of breach of implied covenant of good faith and fair
dealing for termination in violation of public policy, deprivation of compensation, and breach of contract. Additionally, on or about March 29, 2011, Behm filed an arbitration proceeding before
the American Arbitration Association alleging wrongful termination, in which he seeks the payment of carried interest or "promote" distributed through the SPEs, based on the sales of certain real
estate assets. Behm also contends that he is
entitled to promote as a third-party beneficiary of Kevin Fitzpatrick's employment agreement, which, Behm claims, defines broadly a class of individuals, allegedly including himself, who, with the
approval of AIG's Chief Investment Officer, became eligible to receive promote payments. Behm is claiming approximately $33 million in carried interest. Multiple AIG entities (the AIG Entities)
are named as parties in each of the Behm matters. The AIG Entities have filed a counterclaim in the Delaware case, contending that Behm owes them approximately $3.6 million (before
pre-judgment interest) in tax equalization payments made by the AIG Entities on Behm's behalf.   

      Both
matters filed by Behm are premised on the same key allegations. Behm claims that the AIG Entities wrongfully terminated him from AIGGREAP in an effort to silence him for voicing
opposition to allegedly improper practices concerning the amount of AIG reserves for carried interest that Behm contends is due to him and others. The AIG Entities contend that their reserves are
appropriate, as Behm's claim for additional carried interest are without merit. Behm claims that, when he refused to accede to the AIG Entities' position as to the amount of carried interest due, he
was targeted for investigation and subsequently terminated, purportedly for providing confidential AIG information to a competitor, and its executive search firm. Behm argues that he did not disclose
any confidential information; instead, he met with several of the competitor's representatives in order to foster interest in purchasing AIGGREAP.   

      The
parties have finalized the selection of the arbitration panel and the arbitration hearing dates have been set for May 2012. No trial date has been set in the Delaware action. As set
forth above, the possible range of loss to AIG is $0 to $33 million, although Behm claims that he is also entitled to additional unspecified amounts of carried interest and punitive damages.   

False Claims Act Complaint            

      On February 25, 2010, a complaint was filed in the United States District Court for the Southern District of California by two individuals
(Relators) seeking to assert claims on behalf of the United States against AIG and certain other defendants, including Goldman Sachs and Deutsche Bank, under the False Claims Act. Relators filed a
First Amended Complaint on September 30, 2010, adding certain additional defendants, including Bank of America and Soci t  G n rale.
The amended complaint alleges that defendants engaged in fraudulent business practices in respect of their activities in the over-the-counter market for collateralized debt
obligations, and submitted false claims to the United States in connection with the FRBNY Credit Facility and the Maiden Lane Interests through, among other things, misrepresenting AIG's ability and
intent to repay amounts drawn on the FRBNY Credit Facility, and misrepresenting the value of the securities that the Maiden Lane Interests acquired   

316            AIG 2011 Form 10-K  

Table of Contents   

   American International Group, Inc.  

   NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS    

from
AIG and certain of its counterparties. The complaint seeks unspecified damages pursuant to the False Claims Act in the amount of three times the damages allegedly sustained by the United States
as well as interest, attorneys' fees, costs and expenses. The complaint and amended complaints were initially filed and maintained under seal while the United States considered whether to intervene in
the action. On or about April 28, 2011, after
the United States declined to intervene, the District Court lifted the seal, and Relators served the amended complaint on AIG on July 11, 2011.   

      On
October 14, 2011, the defendants that had been served filed motions to dismiss the amended complaint, which are currently pending. The Court will hear oral argument on those
motions on April 23, 2012. The Relators have not specified in their amended complaint an amount of alleged damages. As a result, AIG is unable to reasonably estimate the possible loss or range
of losses, if any, arising from the litigation.   

2006 Regulatory Settlements and Related Regulatory Matters            

        2006 Regulatory Settlements.       In February 2006, AIG reached a resolution of claims and matters under investigation with the United States Department
of Justice (DOJ), the Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC), the Office of the New York Attorney General (NYAG) and the New York State Department of Insurance (DOI). The settlements resolved
investigations conducted by the SEC, NYAG and DOI in connection with the accounting, financial reporting and insurance brokerage practices of AIG and its subsidiaries, as well as claims relating to
the underpayment of certain workers' compensation premium taxes and other assessments. These settlements did not, however, resolve investigations by regulators from other states into insurance
brokerage practices related to contingent commissions and other broker-related conduct, such as alleged bid rigging. Nor did the settlements resolve any obligations that AIG may have to state
guarantee funds in connection with any of these matters.   

      As
a result of these settlements, AIG made payments or placed amounts in escrow in 2006 totaling approximately $1.64 billion, $225 million of which represented fines and
penalties.   

      In
addition to the escrowed funds, $800 million was deposited into, and subsequently disbursed by, a fund under the supervision of the SEC, to resolve claims asserted against AIG
by investors, including the securities class action and shareholder lawsuits described below. Additional amounts held in escrow totaling approximately $597 million, including interest thereon,
are included in Other assets at December 31, 2011, and, as discussed below, are specifically designated to satisfy regulatory and class-action liabilities related to workers' compensation
premium reporting issues. Approximately $338 million of the $597 million of the current total workers' compensation related escrow amount was originally held in an account established as
part of the 2006 New York regulatory settlement and referred to as the Workers' Compensation Fund.   

On
February 1, 2012, AIG was informed by the SEC that AIG had complied with the terms of the settlement order under which AIG had agreed to retain an independent consultant, and
as of that date, was no longer subject to such order.   

        Other Regulatory Settlements.       AIG's 2006 regulatory settlements with the SEC, DOJ, NYAG and DOI did not resolve investigations by regulators from
other states into insurance brokerage practices. AIG entered into agreements effective in early 2008 with the Attorneys General of the States of Florida, Hawaii, Maryland, Michigan, Oregon, Texas and
West Virginia; the Commonwealths of Massachusetts and Pennsylvania; and the District of Columbia; as well as the Florida Department of Financial Services and the Florida Office of Insurance
Regulation, relating to their respective industry-wide investigations into producer compensation and insurance placement practices. The settlements called for total payments of
$26 million by AIG, of which $4.4 million was paid under previous settlement agreements. During the term of the settlement agreements, which run through early 2018, AIG will continue to
maintain certain producer compensation disclosure and ongoing compliance initiatives. AIG will also continue to cooperate with the industry-wide investigations. On April 7, 2010, it
was announced that AIG and the Ohio Attorney General entered into a settlement agreement to resolve the Ohio   

  AIG 2011 Form 10-K            317  

Table of Contents   

   American International Group, Inc.  

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS    

  Attorney
General's claim concerning producer compensation and insurance placement practices. AIG paid the Ohio Attorney General $9 million as part of that settlement.   

        NAIC Examination of Workers' Compensation Premium Reporting.       During 2006, the Settlement Review Working Group of the National Association of
Insurance Commissioners (NAIC), under the direction of the States of Indiana, Minnesota and Rhode Island, began an investigation into AIG's reporting of workers' compensation premiums. In late 2007,
the Settlement Review Working Group recommended that a multi-state targeted market conduct examination focusing on workers' compensation insurance be commenced under the direction of the NAIC's Market
Analysis Working Group. AIG was informed of the multi-state targeted market conduct examination in January 2008. The lead states in the multi-state examination are Delaware, Florida, Indiana,
Massachusetts, Minnesota, New York, Pennsylvania, and Rhode Island. All other states (and the District of Columbia) have agreed to participate in the multi-state examination. The examination focused
on legacy issues related to AIG's writing and reporting of workers' compensation insurance prior to 1996 and current compliance with legal requirements applicable to such business.   

      On
December 17, 2010, AIG and the lead states reached an agreement to settle all regulatory liabilities arising out of the subjects of the multistate examination. The regulatory
settlement agreement, which has been agreed to by all 50 states and the District of Columbia, includes, among other terms, (i) AIG's payment of $100 million in regulatory fines and
penalties; (ii) AIG's payment of $46.5 million in outstanding premium taxes; (iii) AIG's agreement to enter into a compliance plan describing agreed-upon specific
steps and standards for evaluating AIG's ongoing compliance with state regulations governing the setting of workers' compensation insurance premium rates and the reporting of workers' compensation
premiums; and (iv) AIG's agreement to pay up to $150 million in contingent fines in the event that AIG fails to comply substantially with the compliance plan requirements. The
$146.5 million in fines, penalties and premium taxes have been funded out of the $338 million originally held in the Workers' Compensation Fund and placed into an escrow account pursuant
to the terms of the regulatory settlement agreement. The regulatory settlement is contingent upon and will not become effective until, among other events: (i) a final, court-approved settlement
is reached in all the lawsuits that comprise the Workers' Compensation Premium Reporting Litigation, discussed below, including the putative class action, except that such settlement need not resolve
claims between AIG and the Liberty Mutual Group in order for the regulatory settlement to become effective and (ii) a settlement is reached and consummated between AIG and
certain state insurance guaranty funds that may assert claims against AIG for underpayment of guaranty-fund assessments.   

      As
of December 31, 2011, AIG has an accrued liability for the amounts payable under the proposed settlement.   

Litigation Related to the Matters Underlying the 2006 Regulatory Settlements            

      AIG and certain present and former directors and officers of AIG have been named in various actions related to the matters underlying the 2006
Regulatory Settlements. These actions are described below.   

        The Consolidated 2004 Securities Litigation.       Beginning in October 2004, a number of putative securities fraud class action suits were filed in the
Southern District of New York against AIG and consolidated as In re American International Group, Inc. Securities Litigation (the Consolidated 2004 Securities Litigation). Subsequently, a
separate, though similar, securities fraud action was also brought against AIG by certain Florida pension funds. The lead plaintiff in the Consolidated 2004 Securities Litigation is a group of public
retirement systems and pension funds benefiting Ohio state employees, suing on behalf of themselves and all purchasers of AIG's publicly traded securities between October 28, 1999 and
April 1, 2005. The named defendants are AIG and a number of present and former AIG officers and directors, as well as C.V. Starr   Co., Inc. (Starr), Starr International
Company, Inc. (SICO), General Reinsurance Corporation (General Re), and PwC, among others. The lead plaintiff alleges, among other things, that AIG: (i) concealed that it engaged in
anti-competitive conduct through alleged payment of contingent commissions to brokers and participation in illegal bid-rigging; (ii) concealed that it   

  318            AIG 2011 Form 10-K  

Table of Contents   

   American International Group, Inc.  

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS    

used
"income smoothing" products and other techniques to inflate its earnings; (iii) concealed that it marketed and sold "income smoothing" insurance products to other companies; and
(iv) misled investors about the scope of government investigations. In addition, the lead plaintiff alleges that Maurice R. Greenberg, AIG's former Chief Executive Officer, manipulated AIG's
stock price. The lead plaintiff asserts claims for violations of Sections 11 and 15 of the Securities Act, Section 10(b) of the Exchange Act and Rule 10b-5 promulgated
thereunder, and Sections 20(a) and Section 20A of the Exchange Act.   

      On
July 14, 2010, AIG approved the terms of a settlement (the Settlement) with lead plaintiffs. The Settlement is conditioned on, among other things, court approval and a minimum
level of shareholder participation. Under the terms of the Settlement, if consummated, AIG would pay an aggregate of $725 million.   

      On
July 20, 2010, at the joint request of AIG and lead plaintiffs, the District Court entered an order staying all deadlines in the case. On November 30, 2010, AIG and lead
plaintiffs executed their agreement of settlement and compromise. On November 30, 2010, lead plaintiffs filed a motion for preliminary approval of the settlement with AIG.   

      On
October 5, 2011, the District Court granted lead plaintiffs' motion for preliminary approval of the settlement between AIG and lead plaintiffs. Notices to class members of the
settlement were mailed on October 14, 2011. On December 2, 2011, Lead Plaintiff filed a motion for final approval of the settlement and for attorneys' fees. Objections to the settlement
and requests to be excluded from the settlement were due to the District Court by December 30, 2011. Only two shareholders objected to the settlement, and 25 shareholders claiming to hold less
than 1.5 percent of AIG's outstanding shares at the end of the class period submitted timely and valid requests to opt out of the class. Of those 25 shareholders, seven are investment funds
controlled by the same investment group, and that investment group is the only opt-out who held more than 1,000 shares at the end of the class period. By order dated February 2,
2012, the District Court granted lead plaintiffs' motion for final approval of the Settlement between AIG and lead plaintiffs. AIG has fully funded the amount of the Settlement into an escrow account.
On February 17, 2012, one of the objectors filed a notice to appeal the District Court's February 2, 2012 order to the Court of Appeals for the Second Circuit.   

      On
January 23, 2012, AIG and the Florida pension funds, who had brought a separate securities fraud action, executed a settlement agreement. Under the terms of the settlement
agreement, AIG paid $4 million.   

        The Multi-District Litigation.       Commencing in 2004, policyholders brought multiple federal antitrust and Racketeer Influenced and Corrupt
Organizations Act (RICO) class actions in jurisdictions across the nation against insurers and brokers, including AIG and a number of its subsidiaries, alleging that the insurers and brokers engaged
in one or more broad conspiracies to allocate customers, steer business, and rig bids. These actions, including 24 complaints filed in different federal courts naming AIG or an AIG subsidiary as a
defendant, were consolidated by the judicial panel on multi-district litigation and transferred to the United States District Court for the District of New Jersey (District of New Jersey) for
coordinated pretrial proceedings. The consolidated actions have proceeded in that Court in two parallel actions, In re Insurance Brokerage Antitrust Litigation (the Commercial Complaint) and In re
Employee Benefits Insurance Brokerage Antitrust Litigation (the Employee Benefits Complaint, and, together with the Commercial Complaint, the Multi-District Litigation).   

      The
plaintiffs in the Commercial Complaint are a group of corporations, individuals and public entities that contracted with the broker defendants for the provision of insurance
brokerage services for a variety of insurance needs. The broker defendants are alleged to have placed insurance coverage on the plaintiffs' behalf with a number of insurance companies named as
defendants, including AIG subsidiaries. The Commercial Complaint also named various brokers and other insurers as defendants (three of which have since settled). The Commercial Complaint alleges that
defendants engaged in a number of overlapping "broker-centered" conspiracies to allocate customers through the payment of contingent commissions to brokers and through purported
"bid-rigging" practices. It also alleges that the insurer and broker defendants participated in a "global" conspiracy not to disclose to policyholders the payment of contingent
commissions. Plaintiffs assert that the defendants violated the   

  AIG 2011 Form 10-K            319  

Table of Contents   

   American International Group, Inc.  

   NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS    

Sherman
Antitrust Act, RICO, and the antitrust laws of 48 states and the District of Columbia, and are liable under common law breach of fiduciary duty and unjust enrichment theories. Plaintiffs seek
treble damages plus interest and attorneys' fees as a result of the alleged RICO and Sherman Antitrust Act violations.   

      The
plaintiffs in the Employee Benefits Complaint are a group of individual employees and corporate and municipal employers alleging claims on behalf of two separate nationwide purported
classes: an employee class and an employer class that acquired insurance products from the defendants from January 1, 1998 to December 31, 2004. The Employee Benefits Complaint names
AIG, as well as various other brokers and insurers, as defendants. The activities alleged in the Employee Benefits Complaint, with certain exceptions, track the allegations of customer allocation
through steering and bid-rigging made in the Commercial Complaint.   

      The
District Court, in connection with the Commercial and Employee Benefits Complaints, granted (without leave to amend) defendants' motions to dismiss the federal antitrust and RICO
claims on August 31, 2007 and September 28, 2007, respectively. The Court declined to exercise supplemental jurisdiction over the state law claims in the Commercial Complaint and
therefore dismissed it in its entirety. Plaintiffs appealed the dismissal of the Commercial Complaint to the United States Court of Appeals for the Third Circuit (the Third Circuit) on
October 10, 2007. On January 14, 2008, the District Court granted summary judgment to defendants on plaintiffs' ERISA claims in the Employee Benefits Complaint. On February 12,
2008, plaintiffs filed a notice of appeal to the Third Circuit with respect to the dismissal of the antitrust and RICO claims in the Employee Benefits Complaint.   

      On
August 16, 2010, the Third Circuit affirmed the dismissal of the Employee Benefits Complaint in its entirety, affirmed in part and vacated in part the District Court's
dismissal of the Commercial Complaint, and remanded the case for further proceedings consistent with the opinion. Specifically, the Third Circuit affirmed the dismissal of plaintiffs' broader
antitrust and RICO claims, but the Court reversed the District Court's dismissal of alleged "Marsh-centered" antitrust and RICO claims based on allegations of bid-rigging involving excess
casualty insurance. The Court remanded these Marsh-centered claims to the District Court for consideration as to whether plaintiffs had adequately pleaded them. Because the Third Circuit vacated in
part the judgment dismissing the federal claims in the Commercial Complaint, the Third Circuit also vacated the District Court's dismissal of the state-law claims in the Commercial
Complaint.   

      On
October 1, 2010, defendants named in the Commercial Complaint filed motions to dismiss the remaining remanded claims in the District of New Jersey. On March 18, 2011,
AIG and certain other defendants announced that they had entered into a memorandum of understanding (MOU) with class plaintiffs to settle the claims
asserted against them in the Commercial Complaint. As of May 20, 2011, the parties to the MOU and certain other defendants entered into a Stipulation of Settlement. Under the terms of the
settlement, it is anticipated that AIG will pay $6.75 million of a total aggregate settlement amount of approximately $37 million. The settlement is conditioned on final court approval.
Plaintiffs' attorneys' fees and litigation expenses, and the aggregate costs of notice and claims administration in connection with the settlement, would be paid from the settlement fund.   

      On
June 20, 2011, the Court "administratively terminated" without prejudice the various Defendants' pending motions to dismiss the proposed class plaintiffs' operative pleading
indicating that those motions may be re-filed after adjudication of all issues related to the proposed class settlement and subject to the approval of the Magistrate Judge. On
June 27, 2011, the Court preliminarily approved the class settlement. On June 30, 2011, AIG placed its portion of the total settlement payment into escrow. If the settlement does not
receive final court approval, those funds will revert to AIG. A final fairness hearing was held on September 14, 2011. The Court has not yet ruled on the motion for final approval of the class
settlement.   

  320            AIG 2011 Form 10-K  

Table of Contents    

   American International Group, Inc.   

   NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS     

      A number of complaints making allegations similar to those in the Multi-District Litigation have been filed against AIG and other defendants in state and federal
courts around the country. The defendants have thus far been successful in having the federal actions transferred to the District of New Jersey and consolidated into the Multi-District Litigation.
These additional consolidated actions are still pending in the District of New Jersey, but are currently stayed. In one of those consolidated actions,    Palm Tree Computer
Systems, Inc. v. Ace USA (Palm Tree)   , which is brought by two named plaintiffs on behalf of a proposed class of insurance purchasers, the plaintiffs allege specifically
with respect to their claim for breach of fiduciary duty against the insurer defendants that neither named plaintiff nor any member of the proposed class suffered damages "exceeding $74,999 each."
Plaintiffs do not specify damages as to other claims against the insurer defendants in the complaint. The plaintiffs in    Palm Tree    have not yet sought
certification of the class, as that case has been stayed by the District Court of New Jersey. Because discovery has not been completed and the District Court has not determined if a class action is
appropriate or the size or scope of any class, AIG is unable to reasonably estimate the possible loss or range of losses, if any, arising from the    Palm
Tree    litigation. In another consolidated action,    The Heritage Corp. of South Florida v. National Union Fire Ins. Co.
(Heritage)   , an individual plaintiff alleges damages "in excess of $75,000." Because discovery has not been completed and a precise amount of damages has not been specified, AIG
is
unable to reasonably estimate the possible loss or range of losses, if any, arising from the    Heritage    litigation. For the remaining consolidated
actions, as of February, 2012, plaintiffs have not specified an amount of alleged damages arising from these actions. AIG is therefore unable to reasonably estimate the possible loss or range of
losses, if any, arising from these matters.   

      In
June 2011, the Court ordered counsel for each of the tag-along actions in the Multi-District Litigation (including the following cases where AIG is a defendant:     Avery Dennison Corp. v. Marsh   McLennan Companies,
 Inc.; Henley Management Co. v. Marsh Inc.; Heritage; and Palm Tree   ) to
submit a letter to the Court within 30 days of the date of that order that outlines the effect the current proposed class settlement will have on their respective cases if finalized in due
course. In July 2011, several plaintiffs submitted letters to the Court. Defendants submitted an omnibus response to the Court on August 19, 2011.   

      On
October 17, 2011, the Court conducted a conference and subsequently ordered that discovery and motion practice may proceed in all tag-along actions. The parties
were ordered to submit a proposed scheduling order for discovery and any additional motion practice to the Court by October 31, 2011. The Court has not yet issued a scheduling order.   

      The
AIG defendants have also sought to have state court actions making similar allegations stayed pending resolution of the Multi-District Litigation proceeding. These efforts have
generally been successful, although four cases have proceeded; one each in Florida and New Jersey state courts that have settled, and one each in Texas and Kansas state courts have proceeded (although
discovery is stayed in both actions). In the Texas action, plaintiff filed its Fourth Amended Petition on July 13, 2009 and on August 14, 2009, defendants filed renewed special
exceptions. Plaintiff in the Texas action alleges a "maximum" of $125 million in total damages (after trebling). Because the Court has not rendered a decision on defendants' renewed special
exceptions and discovery has not been completed, AIG is unable to reasonably estimate the possible loss or range of losses, if any, arising from the Texas action. In the Kansas action, defendants are
appealing to the Kansas Supreme Court the trial court's denial of defendants' motion to dismiss on statute of limitations grounds. In the Kansas action, the plaintiff alleges damages in an amount
"greater than $75,000" for each of the three claims directed against AIG in the complaint. Because the Kansas Supreme Court has not decided the appeal of the trial court's denial of defendants' motion
to dismiss, a precise amount of damages has not been specified and discovery has not been completed, AIG is unable to reasonably estimate the possible loss or range of losses, if any, from the Kansas
action.   

        Workers' Compensation Premium Reporting.       On May 24, 2007, the National Council on Compensation Insurance (NCCI), on behalf of the
participating members of the National Workers' Compensation Reinsurance Pool (the NWCRP), filed a lawsuit in the United States District Court for the Northern District of Illinois   

  AIG 2011 Form 10-K            321  

Table of Contents   

   American International Group, Inc.  

   NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS    

(Northern
District of Illinois) against AIG with respect to the underpayment by AIG of its residual market assessments for workers' compensation insurance. The complaint alleged claims for violations
of RICO, breach of contract, fraud and related state law claims arising out of AIG's alleged underpayment of these assessments between 1970 and the present and sought damages purportedly in excess of
$1 billion. On August 6, 2007, the Court
denied AIG's motion seeking to dismiss or stay the complaint or, in the alternative, to transfer to the Southern District of New York. On December 26, 2007, the Court denied AIG's motion to
dismiss the complaint.   

      On
March 17, 2008, AIG filed an amended answer, counterclaims and third-party claims against NCCI (in its capacity as attorney-in-fact for the NWCRP), the
NWCRP, its board members, and certain of the other insurance companies that are members of the NWCRP alleging violations of RICO, as well as claims for conspiracy, fraud, and other state law claims.
The counterclaim- defendants and third-party defendants filed motions to dismiss on June 9, 2008. On January 26, 2009, AIG filed a motion to dismiss all claims in the complaint for lack
of subject-matter jurisdiction. On February 23, 2009, the Court issued a decision and order sustaining AIG's counterclaims and sustaining, in part, AIG's third-party claims. The Court also
dismissed certain of AIG's third-party claims without prejudice.   

      On
April 13, 2009, third-party defendant Liberty Mutual Group (Liberty Mutual) filed third-party counterclaims against AIG, certain of its subsidiaries, and former AIG executives.
On August 23, 2009, the Court granted AIG's motion to dismiss the NCCI complaint for lack of standing. On September 25, 2009, AIG filed its First Amended Complaint, reasserting its RICO
claims against certain insurance companies that both underreported their workers' compensation premium and served on the NWCRP Board, and repleading its fraud and other state law claims. Defendants
filed a motion to dismiss the First Amended Complaint on October 30, 2009. On October 8, 2009, Liberty Mutual filed an amended counterclaim against AIG. The amended counterclaim is
substantially similar to the complaint initially filed by NCCI, but also seeks damages related to non-NWCRP states, guaranty funds, and special assessments, in addition to asserting claims
for other violations of state law. The amended counterclaim also removes as defendants the former AIG executives. On October 30, 2009, AIG filed a motion to dismiss the Liberty amended
counterclaim.   

      On
April 1, 2009, Safeco Insurance Company of America (Safeco) and Ohio Casualty Insurance Company (Ohio Casualty) filed a complaint in the Northern District of Illinois, on
behalf of a purported class of all NWCRP participant members, against AIG and certain of its subsidiaries with respect to the underpayment by AIG of its residual market assessments for workers'
compensation insurance. The complaint was styled as an "alternative complaint," should the Court grant AIG's motion to dismiss the NCCI lawsuit for lack of subject-matter jurisdiction. The allegations
in the class action complaint are substantially similar to those filed by the NWCRP, but the complaint names former AIG executives as defendants and asserts a RICO claim against those executives. On
August 28, 2009, the class action plaintiffs filed an amended complaint, removing the AIG executives as defendants. On October 30, 2009, AIG filed a motion to dismiss the amended
complaint. On July 16, 2010, Safeco and Ohio Casualty filed their motion for class certification, which AIG opposed on October 8, 2010.   

      On
July 1, 2010, the Court ruled on the pending motions to dismiss that were directed at all parties' claims. With respect to the underreporting NWCRP companies' and board
members' motion to dismiss AIG's first amended complaint, the Court denied the motion to dismiss all counts except AIG's claim for unjust enrichment, which it found to be precluded by the surviving
claims for breach of contract. With respect to NCCI and the NWCRP's motion to dismiss AIG's first amended complaint, the Court denied the NCCI and the NWCRP's motions to dismiss AIG's claims for an
equitable accounting and an action on an open, mutual, and current account. With respect to AIG's motions to dismiss Liberty's counterclaims and the class action complaint, the Court denied both
motions, except that it dismissed the class claim for promissory estoppel. On July 30, 2010, the NWCRP filed a motion for reconsideration of the Court's ruling denying its motion to dismiss
AIG's claims for an equitable accounting and an action on an open, mutual, and current account. The Court denied the NWCRP's motion for reconsideration on September 16, 2010. The plaintiffs
filed a motion for class certification on July 16, 2010. AIG opposed the motion.   

322            AIG 2011 Form 10-K  

Table of Contents   

   American International Group, Inc.  

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS    

      On
January 5, 2011, AIG executed a term sheet with a group of intervening plaintiffs, made up of seven participating members of the NWCRP that filed a motion to intervene in the
class action for the purpose of settling the claims at issue on behalf of a settlement class. The proposed class-action settlement would require AIG to pay $450 million to satisfy all
liabilities to the class members arising out of the workers' compensation premium reporting issues, a portion of which would be funded out of the remaining amount held in the Workers' Compensation
Fund less any amounts previously withdrawn to satisfy AIG's regulatory settlement obligations, as addressed above. On January 13, 2011, their motion to intervene was granted. On
January 19, 2011, the intervening class plaintiffs filed their Complaint in Intervention. On January 28, 2011, AIG and the intervening class plaintiffs entered into a settlement
agreement embodying the terms set forth in the January 5, 2011 term sheet and filed a joint motion for certification of the settlement class and preliminary approval of the settlement. If
approved by the Court (and such approval becomes final), the settlement agreement will resolve and dismiss with prejudice all claims that have been made or that could have been made in the
consolidated litigations pending in the Northern District of Illinois arising out of workers' compensation premium reporting, including the class action, other than claims that are brought by any
class member that opts out of the settlement. On April 29, 2011, Liberty Mutual filed papers in opposition to preliminary approval of the proposed settlement and in opposition to certification
of a settlement class, in which it alleged AIG's actual exposure, should the class action continue through judgment, to be in excess of $3 billion. AIG disputes and will defend against this
allegation. The Court held a hearing on the motions for class certification and preliminary approval of the proposed class-action settlement on June 21 and July 25, 2011.   

      On
August 1, 2011, the Court issued an opinion and order granting the motion for class certification and preliminarily approving the proposed class-action settlement, subject to
certain minor modifications that the Court noted the parties already had agreed to make. The opinion and order became effective upon the entry of a separate Findings and Order Preliminarily Certifying
a Settlement Class and Preliminarily Approving Proposed Settlement on August 5, 2011. Liberty Mutual sought leave from the United States Court of Appeals for the Seventh Circuit to appeal the
August 5, 2011 class certification decision, which was denied on August 19, 2011. Notice of the settlement was issued to the class members on August 19, 2011 advising that any
class member wishing to opt out of or object to the class   action settlement was required to do so by October 3, 2011. RLI Insurance Company and its affiliates, which were to
receive less than one thousand dollars under the proposed settlement, sent the only purported opt-out notice. Liberty Mutual, including its subsidiaries Safeco and Ohio Casualty, and the
Kemper group of insurance companies, through their affiliate Lumbermens Mutual Casualty, were the only two objectors. AIG and the settling class plaintiffs filed responses to the objectors'
submissions on October 28, 2011. The Court conducted a final fairness hearing on November 29, 2011. On December 21, 2011, the Court issued an order granting final approval of the
settlement, but staying that ruling pending a forthcoming opinion. On January 19, 2012, Liberty Mutual and Safeco and Ohio Casualty filed notices of their intent to appeal the Court's order
granting class-action settlement approval.   

      The
$450 million settlement amount, which is currently held in escrow pending final resolution of the class-action settlement, was funded in part from the approximately
$191.5 million remaining in the Workers' Compensation Fund, after the transfer of the $146.5 million in fines, penalties, and premium taxes discussed in the NAIC Examination of Workers'
Compensation Premium Reporting matter above into a separate escrow account pursuant to the regulatory settlement agreement. In the event that the proposed class action settlement is not approved, the
litigation will resume. As of December 31, 2011, AIG has an accrued liability equal to the amounts payable under the settlement.   

  AIG 2011 Form 10-K            323  

Table of Contents   

   American International Group, Inc.  

   NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS    

Litigation Matters Relating to AIG's Insurance Operations            

Caremark.       AIG and certain of its subsidiaries have been named defendants in two putative class actions in state court in Alabama that arise out of
the 1999 settlement of class and derivative litigation involving Caremark Rx, Inc. (Caremark). The plaintiffs in the second-filed action intervened in the first-filed action, and the
second-filed action was dismissed. An excess policy issued by a subsidiary of AIG with respect to the 1999 litigation was expressly stated to be without limit of liability. In the current actions,
plaintiffs allege that the judge approving the 1999 settlement was misled as to the extent of available insurance coverage and would not have approved the settlement had he known of the existence
and/or unlimited nature of the excess policy. They further allege that AIG, its subsidiaries, and Caremark are liable for fraud and suppression for misrepresenting and/or concealing the nature and
extent of coverage. In addition, the intervenors originally alleged that various lawyers and law firms who represented parties in the underlying class and derivative litigation (the Lawyer Defendants)
were also liable for fraud and suppression, misrepresentation, and breach of fiduciary duty.   

      The
complaints filed by the plaintiffs and the intervenors request compensatory damages for the 1999 class in the amount of $3.2 billion, plus punitive damages. AIG and its
subsidiaries deny the allegations of fraud and suppression, assert that information concerning the excess policy was publicly disclosed months prior to the approval of the settlement, that the claims
are barred by the statute of limitations, and that the statute cannot be tolled in light of the public disclosure of the excess coverage. The plaintiffs and intervenors, in turn, have asserted that
the disclosure was insufficient to inform them of the nature of the coverage and did not start the running of the statute of limitations.   

      In
November 2007, the trial court dismissed the intervenors' complaint against the Lawyer Defendants, and the Alabama Supreme Court affirmed that dismissal in September 2008. After the
case was sent back down to the trial court, the intervenors retained additional counsel and filed an Amended Complaint in Intervention that named only Caremark and AIG and various subsidiaries as
defendants, purported to bring claims against all defendants for deceit and conspiracy to deceive, and purported to bring a claim against AIG and its subsidiaries for aiding and abetting Caremark's
alleged deception. The defendants moved to dismiss the Amended Complaint in Intervention, and the plaintiffs moved to disqualify all of the lawyers for the intervenors because, among other things, the
newly retained firm had previously represented Caremark. The intervenors, in turn, moved to disqualify the lawyers for the plaintiffs in the first-filed action. The cross-motions to disqualify were
withdrawn after the two sets of plaintiffs agreed that counsel for the original plaintiffs would act as lead counsel, and intervenors also withdrew their Amended Complaint in Intervention. The trial
court approved all of the foregoing steps and, in
April 2009, established a schedule for class action discovery that was to lead to a hearing on class certification in March 2010. The Court has since appointed a special master to oversee class action
discovery and has directed the parties to submit a new discovery schedule after certain discovery disputes are resolved. Class discovery is ongoing. A class certification hearing has been set for
March 2012, but it is expected to be adjourned until later in the Spring.   

      As
of February 23, 2012, the parties have not completed class action discovery, general discovery has not commenced, and the court has not determined if a class action is appropriate or
the size or scope of any class. As a result, AIG is unable to reasonably estimate the possible loss or range of losses, if any, arising from the litigation.   

(B) COMMITMENTS   

Flight Equipment            

      At December 31, 2011, ILFC had committed to purchase 232 new aircraft and 26 additional aircraft, mostly through sale-leaseback
transactions with airlines, deliverable from 2012 through 2019, with aggregate estimated total remaining payments of approximately $19.0 billion. ILFC will be required to find lessees for any
aircraft acquired and to arrange financing for a substantial portion of the purchase price.   

  324            AIG 2011 Form 10-K  

Table of Contents   

   American International Group, Inc.  

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS    

      During
2011, ILFC entered into a contract for the purchase of 100 A320neo family narrowbody aircraft from Airbus with deliveries beginning in 2015 and canceled its previous purchase
commitment for ten A380s. ILFC also has the right to purchase an additional 50 Airbus A320neo family narrowbody aircraft. In addition, ILFC signed a purchase agreement for
33 737-800 aircraft from Boeing with deliveries beginning in 2012.   

   The following table presents the minimum future rental income on noncancelable operating leases of flight equipment that has been delivered:   

Flight equipment is leased under operating leases with remaining terms ranging from one to fourteen years.   

Lease Commitments            

AIG and its subsidiaries occupy leased space in many locations under various long-term leases and have entered into various leases
covering the long-term use of data processing equipment.   

   The following table presents the future minimum lease payments under operating leases:     

Rent expense was $482 million, $587 million and $733 million for the years ended December 31, 2011, 2010 and 2009,
respectively. These amounts include $24 million, $118 million and $206 million attributable to discontinued operations for the years ended December 31, 2011, 2010 and 2009,
respectively.   

Other Commitments            

      In the normal course of business, AIG enters into commitments to invest in private equity funds, hedge funds and mutual funds and to purchase and
develop real estate in the U.S. and abroad. These commitments totaled $2.8 billion at December 31, 2011.   

      AIG
is obligated, subject to certain conditions, to make any payment that is not promptly paid with respect to the benefits accrued by certain employees of AIG and its subsidiaries under
the SICO Plans (as discussed in (c) below under "Benefits Provided by Starr International Company, Inc.").   

  AIG 2011 Form 10-K            325  

Table of Contents   

   American International Group, Inc.  

   NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS    

(C) CONTINGENCIES   

Liability for unpaid claims and claims adjustment expense            

      Although AIG regularly reviews the adequacy of the established Liability for unpaid claims and claims adjustment expense, there can be no
assurance that AIG's loss reserves will not develop adversely and have a material adverse effect on its results of operations. Estimation of ultimate net losses, loss expenses and loss reserves is a
complex process for long-tail casualty lines of business, which include general liability, commercial automobile liability, workers' compensation, excess casualty and crisis management
coverages, insurance and risk management programs for large corporate customers and other customized structured insurance products, as well as excess and umbrella liability, D O and products
liability. Generally, actual historical loss development factors are used to project future loss development. However, there can be no assurance that future loss development patterns will be the same
as in the past. Moreover, any deviation in loss cost trends or in loss development factors might not be discernible for an extended period of time subsequent to the recording of the initial loss
reserve estimates for any accident year. There is the potential for reserves with respect to a number of years to be significantly affected by changes in loss cost trends or loss development factors
that were relied upon in setting the reserves. These changes in loss cost trends or loss development factors could be attributable to changes in inflation or in the judicial environment, or in other
social or economic phenomena affecting claims, such as the effects that the recent disruption in the credit markets could have on reported claims under professional liability coverages.   

Benefits Provided by Starr International Company, Inc.            

      SICO has provided a series of two-year Deferred Compensation Profit Participation Plans (SICO Plans) to certain AIG employees. The
SICO Plans were created in 1975 when the voting shareholders and Board of Directors of SICO, a private holding company whose principal asset was AIG Common Stock, decided that a portion of the capital
value of SICO should be used to provide an incentive plan for the current and succeeding managements of all American International companies, including AIG.   

      None
of the costs of the various benefits provided under the SICO Plans has been paid by AIG, although AIG has recorded a charge to reported earnings for the deferred compensation
amounts paid to AIG employees by SICO, with an offsetting amount credited to Additional paid-in capital reflecting amounts considered to be contributed by SICO. The SICO Plans provide that
shares currently owned by SICO are set aside
by SICO for the benefit of the participant and distributed upon retirement. The SICO Board of Directors currently may permit an early payout of units under certain circumstances. Prior to payout, the
participant is not entitled to vote, dispose of or receive dividends with respect to such shares, and shares are subject to forfeiture under certain conditions, including but not limited to the
participant's voluntary termination of employment with AIG prior to normal retirement age. Under the SICO Plans, SICO's Board of Directors may elect to pay a participant cash in lieu of shares of AIG
Common Stock. Following notification from SICO to participants in the SICO Plans that it will settle specific future awards under the SICO Plans with shares rather than cash, AIG modified its
accounting for the SICO Plans from variable to fixed measurement accounting. AIG gave effect to this change in settlement method beginning on December 9, 2005, the date of SICO's notice to
participants in the SICO Plans.   

      Under
the Starr International Company, Inc. Assurance Agreement, dated as of June 27, 2005 (SICO Assurance Agreement), AIG has agreed that, in the event that SICO does not
promptly deliver the shares as required under the express terms of the SICO Plans to participants who were employees of AIG and its subsidiaries as of May 18, 2005, AIG will pay the benefits
due under the SICO Plans. At December 31, 2011, the maximum number of shares of AIG Common Stock that AIG could be required to deliver under the SICO Assurance Agreement was 195,908.   

  326            AIG 2011 Form 10-K  

Table of Contents   

   American International Group, Inc.  

   NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS    

(D) GUARANTEES   

Subsidiaries            

      AIG has issued unconditional guarantees with respect to the prompt payment, when due, of all present and future payment obligations and
liabilities of AIGFP arising from transactions entered into by AIGFP.   

      In
connection with AIGFP's leasing business, AIGFP has issued, in a limited number of transactions, standby letters of credit or similar facilities to equity investors in an amount equal
to the termination value owing to the equity investor by the lessee in the event of a lessee default (the equity termination value). The total amount outstanding at December 31, 2011 was
$437 million. In those transactions, AIGFP has agreed to pay such amount if the lessee fails to pay. The amount payable by AIGFP is, in certain cases, partially offset by amounts payable under
other instruments typically equal to the present value of a scheduled payment to be made by AIGFP. In the
event that AIGFP is required to make a payment to the equity investor, the lessee is unconditionally obligated to reimburse AIGFP. To the extent that the equity investor is paid the equity termination
value from the standby letter of credit and/or other sources, including payments by the lessee, AIGFP takes an assignment of the equity investor's rights under the lease of the underlying property.
Because the obligations of the lessee under the lease transactions are generally economically defeased, lessee bankruptcy is the most likely circumstance in which AIGFP would be required to pay.   

Asset Dispositions            

General           

      AIG is subject to financial guarantees and indemnity arrangements in connection with the completed sales of businesses pursuant to its asset
disposition plan. The various arrangements may be triggered by, among other things, declines in asset values, the occurrence of specified business contingencies, the realization of contingent
liabilities, developments in litigation or breaches of representations, warranties or covenants provided by AIG. These arrangements are typically subject to various time limitations, defined by the
contract or by operation of law, such as statutes of limitation. In some cases, the maximum potential obligation is subject to contractual limitations, while in other cases such limitations are not
specified or are not applicable.   

      AIG
is unable to develop a reasonable estimate of the maximum potential payout under certain of these arrangements. Overall, AIG believes that it is unlikely it will have to make any
material payments related to completed sales under these arrangements, and no material liabilities related to these arrangements have been recorded in the Consolidated Balance Sheet. See
Notes 1 and 4 herein for additional information on sales of businesses and asset dispositions.   

ALICO Sale           

      Pursuant to the terms of the ALICO stock purchase agreement, AIG has agreed to provide MetLife with certain indemnities, the most significant of
which include:   

Indemnification related to breaches of general representations and warranties with an aggregate deductible of
$125 million and a maximum payout of $2.25 billion. The indemnification extends for 21 months after November 1, 2010.     
           Indemnifications related to specific product, investment, litigation and other matters that are excluded from the general
representations and warranties indemnity. These indemnifications provide for various deductible amounts, which in certain cases are zero, and maximum exposures, which in certain cases are unlimited,
and extend for various periods after the completion of the sale.    
  AIG 2011 Form 10-K            327  

Table of Contents   

   American International Group, Inc.  

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS    

Tax indemnifications related to insurance reserves that extend for taxable periods ending on or before December 31,
2013 and that are limited to an aggregate of $200 million, and certain other tax-related representations and warranties that extend to the expiration of the statute of limitations
and are subject to an aggregate deductible of $50 million.     
           Indemnification for taxes incurred by ALICO as a result of the proposed elections under Section 338 of the Internal
Revenue Code (the Code). Such elections have the effect of shifting the federal income tax liability on the sale from the seller to ALICO. On March 8, 2011, AIG paid MetLife approximately
$300 million related to this indemnity.    

      In
connection with the indemnity obligations described above, as of December 31, 2011, approximately $1.6 billion of proceeds from the ALICO Sale were on deposit in an
escrow arrangement. The amount required to be held in escrow declines to zero in April 2013, with claims submitted related to the indemnifications reducing the amount that can be released to AIG.
Escrow releases to AIG are generally required to be applied towards the reduction of the liquidation preference of the Department of the Treasury's AIA SPV Preferred Interests. The escrow arrangement,
as of December 31, 2011, consists of $3.0 billion of initial cash proceeds from the sale of MetLife securities received upon the completion of the ALICO Sale, less the following payments
to MetLife from the escrow account in connection with the indemnification for various claims under the terms of the ALICO Sale: (i) approximately $300 million for taxes as described
above and (ii) approximately $150 million during 2011 in connection with the previously disclosed litigation relating to Italian internal fund suspensions, U.K. internal fund
suspensions, and various tax and other indemnity claims. On November 1, 2011, in accordance with the MetLife escrow agreement from the ALICO Sale, approximately $918 million was released
to AIG. These proceeds were applied to pay down a portion of the liquidation preference of the Department of the Treasury's AIA SPV Preferred Interests pursuant to the Master Transaction Agreement,
dated as of December 8, 2010, among AIG, the SPVs, the FRBNY, the Department of the Treasury and the Trust.   

AGF Sale           

      On November 30, 2010, AIG completed the sale of AGF. In accordance with the terms of the sale, AIG has made certain customary
representations, warranties and covenants in the stock purchase agreement in which AIG agreed to provide the purchaser with certain indemnities.   

AIG Star and AIG Edison Sale           

      Pursuant to the terms of the AIG Star and AIG Edison stock purchase agreement, AIG has agreed to provide Prudential Financial, Inc. with
certain indemnities, the most significant of which is indemnification related to breaches of general representations and warranties that result in losses that exceed 4.1 billion Yen
($53 million at the December 31, 2011 exchange rate), with a maximum payout of 102 billion Yen ($1.3 billion at the December 31, 2011 exchange rate). Except for
certain specified representations and warranties that may have a longer survival period, the indemnification extends until November 1, 2012.   

Other            

See Note 11 herein for commitments and guarantees associated with VIEs.     
           See Note 12 herein for disclosures on derivatives, including AIGFP and MIP written credit default swaps and other
derivatives with credit risk-related contingent features.     
           See Note 24 herein for additional disclosures on guarantees of outstanding debt.    

  328            AIG 2011 Form 10-K  

Table of Contents   

   American International Group, Inc.  

   NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS    

17. TOTAL EQUITY AND EARNINGS (LOSS) PER  SHARE    

SHARES OUTSTANDING   

   The following table presents a rollforward of outstanding shares:   

See Note 1 herein for a discussion of the Recapitalization, the May 2011 Common Stock Offering and Sale and AIG's authorized stock
repurchases.   

PREFERRED STOCK AND RECAPITALIZATION   

      At December 31, 2010, a total of $7.5 billion was outstanding under the Department of the Treasury Commitment (Series F). On
January 14, 2011, AIG completed the Recapitalization in which the Series C Preferred Stock, the Series E Preferred Stock and the Series F Preferred Stock were exchanged for
AIG Common Stock and the Series G Preferred Stock was issued. In connection with the Recapitalization, AIG repaid all amounts outstanding
under the FRBNY Credit Facility. In connection with the May Common Stock Offering (described below under May 2011 Common Stock Offering and Sale), the Series G Preferred Stock was cancelled.   

  AIG 2011 Form 10-K            329  

Table of Contents   

   American International Group, Inc.  

   NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS    

   The following table presents the principal Consolidated Balance Sheet line items affected by the Recapitalization on January 14, 2011, further described in Note 1
herein:   

(a)       Repayment and Termination of the FRBNY Credit Facility             Funds held in escrow and included
in Other assets from the AIA IPO and the ALICO sale were used to repay the FRBNY Credit Facility. The adjustments to Other assets and Accumulated deficit reflects the write-off of the
unamortized portion of the net prepaid commitment fee asset.   
       (b)      Repurchase and Exchange of SPV Preferred Interests             AIG used
remaining net cash proceeds from the AIA IPO and the ALICO sale to pay down a portion of the liquidation preference on the SPV Preferred Interests held by the FRBNY and drew down approximately
$20.3 billion under the Department of the Treasury Commitment (Series F) to repurchase the FRBNY's remaining SPV Preferred Interests, which AIG then transferred to the Department of the
Treasury as part of the consideration for the exchange of the Series F Preferred Stock.   
       (c)      Exchange of AIG's Series C, E and F Preferred Stock for AIG Common Stock. The adjustments represent the exchange of
Series C Preferred Stock, Series E Preferred Stock, and Series F Preferred Stock for AIG Common Stock. As a result of the Recapitalization, the Department of the Treasury acquired
1,655,037,962 shares of newly issued AIG Common Stock.   
       (d)      In connection with the May Common Stock Offering, the Series G Preferred Stock was cancelled.    

330            AIG 2011 Form 10-K  

Table of Contents    

   American International Group, Inc.   

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS     

   The following table presents a rollforward of preferred stock:   

COMMON STOCK   

AIG Treasury Stock Retirement            

      On November 30, 2009, AIG retired 6,111,158 common shares included in Treasury stock, which had a carrying value of $7.4 billion.
These shares were returned to AIG's authorized but unissued common stock. AIG accounted
for the retirement by reducing common stock by $15 million and Additional paid-in capital by $7.4 billion.   

Dividends            

      Following the Recapitalization on January 14, 2011, and pursuant to the terms of the Series G Preferred Stock, AIG was not able to
declare or pay any cash dividends on the AIG Common Stock while the Series G Preferred Stock was outstanding. In addition, AIG was unable to pay dividends under the terms of other series of AIG
preferred stock that were outstanding from November 2008 through January 14, 2011.   

      The
Series G Preferred Stock was cancelled in connection with AIG's public offering of AIG Common Stock in May 2011. After the cancellation of the Series G Preferred Stock,
there have been no contractual restrictions on AIG's ability to pay dividends.   

      Any
payment of dividends will require the approval of AIG's Board of Directors (the Board), in its discretion, from funds legally available therefor. The Board may consider AIG's
financial position, the performance of its businesses, its consolidated financial condition, results of operations and liquidity, available capital, the existence of investment opportunities and other
factors in determining the payment of dividends, if any.   

Share Issuances and Repurchases            

May 2011 Common Stock Offering and Sale           

      On May 27, 2011, AIG and the Department of the Treasury, as the selling shareholder, completed a registered public offering of AIG Common
Stock. AIG issued and sold 100 million shares of AIG Common Stock for aggregate net proceeds of approximately $2.9 billion and the Department of the Treasury sold 200 million
shares of AIG Common Stock. AIG did not receive any of the proceeds from the sale of the shares of AIG Common Stock by the Department of the Treasury. Of the net proceeds AIG received from this
offering, $550 million was used to fund the Consolidated 2004 Securities Litigation settlement (see Note 16 herein). As required by the Registration Rights Agreement, AIG paid the
underwriting discount as well as certain expenses with respect to the   

  AIG 2011 Form 10-K            331  

Table of Contents   

   American International Group, Inc.  

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS    

shares
sold by the Department of the Treasury. The balance of the net proceeds was used for general corporate purposes. As a result of the sale of AIG Common Stock in this offering, the
Series G Drawdown Right was terminated, the Series G Preferred Stock was cancelled and the ownership by the Department of the Treasury was reduced from approximately 92 percent to
approximately 77 percent of the AIG Common Stock outstanding after the completion of the offering.   

Repurchases           

      In November 2011, AIG's Board of Directors authorized the repurchase of shares of AIG Common Stock, with an aggregate purchase amount of up to
$1 billion from time to time in the open market, through derivative or automatic purchase contracts or otherwise. This authorization replaces all prior Common Stock repurchase authorizations.   

      AIG
repurchased a total of 3,074,031 shares of AIG Common Stock for approximately $70 million in 2011. The timing of additional repurchases will depend on market conditions, AIG's
financial condition, results of operations, liquidity, rating agency considerations and other factors.   

Equity Units            

      In May 2008, AIG sold 78.4 million equity units (the Equity Units) at a price per unit of $75 for gross proceeds of $5.88 billion.
The Equity Units included a stock purchase contract obligating the holder of an Equity Unit to purchase, and obligating AIG to sell, a variable number of shares of AIG Common Stock for $25 in cash.   

      AIG
was obligated to pay quarterly contract adjustment payments to the holders of the stock purchase contracts under the Equity Units, at an initial annual rate of 2.71 percent
applied to the stated amount. The present value of the contract adjustment payments, $431 million, was recognized at inception as a liability (a component of Other liabilities), and was
recorded as a reduction to Additional paid-in capital.   

      In
addition to the stock purchase contracts, as part of the Equity Units, AIG issued $1.96 billion of each of the Series B-1, B-2 and
B-3 junior subordinated debentures, which initially paid interest at rates of 5.67 percent, 5.82 percent and 5.89 percent, respectively.   

      The
junior subordinated debentures were recorded as Other long-term debt in the Consolidated Balance Sheet. The principal amount owed by AIG on the subordinated debentures
was equal to the amount owed to AIG under the related stock purchase contract.   

      On
November 23, 2010, AIG commenced an offer to exchange up to 74,480,000 of its Equity Units for consideration per Equity Unit equal to 0.09867 share of AIG Common Stock plus
$3.2702 in cash (the Exchange Offer). The stock and cash received was the result of netting payments from two separate transactions, a repurchase of the subordinated debentures and a cancellation of
the stock purchase contracts.   

      On
November 29, 2010, holders of 49,474,600 Equity Units accepted the Exchange Offer and their units were tendered in exchange for 4,881,667 shares of AIG Common Stock and
$162 million in cash. Following the completion of the exchange offer, a total of 28,925,400 Equity Units remained outstanding. The execution of the Exchange Offer resulted in a loss on the
extinguishment of the subordinated debentures of approximately $104 million and an increase to equity of approximately $3.7 billion.   

In
2011, AIG remarketed the three series of debentures included in the Equity Units. AIG purchased and retired all of the Series B-1, B-2 and
B-3 Debentures representing $2.2 billion in aggregate principal and as a result, no Series B-1, B-2 or B-3 Debentures remain outstanding.
As of December 31, 2011, AIG had issued approximately 1.8 billion shares of AIG Common Stock in connection with the settlement of the stock purchase contracts underlying its Equity
Units.   

  332            AIG 2011 Form 10-K  

Table of Contents   

   American International Group, Inc.  

   NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS    

ACCUMULATED OTHER COMPREHENSIVE INCOME (LOSS)   

   The following table presents a rollforward of Accumulated other comprehensive income (loss):   

(a)       Adjustment to reflect adoption of the other-than-temporary impairment accounting
standard.   
       (b)      Includes the pre-tax adjustment to Accumulated other comprehensive income related to a $152 million reduction of
deferred acquisition costs as a consequence of the recognition of additional policyholder benefit reserves disclosed below.   
       (c)      The adjustment to policyholder benefit reserves assumes that the unrealized appreciation on available for sale securities is actually
realized and that the proceeds are reinvested at lower yields.    

As a result of divestitures in 2010, $2.1 billion of Foreign currency cumulative translation adjustment and $6.0 billion of
Unrealized appreciation of investments were transferred to earnings as net gain on sale.   

  AIG 2011 Form 10-K            333  

Table of Contents   

   American International Group, Inc.  

   NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS    

NONCONTROLLING INTERESTS   

      In connection with the execution of its orderly asset disposition plan, as well as the repayment of the FRBNY Credit Facility, AIG transferred two
of its wholly-owned businesses, AIA and ALICO, to two newly created SPVs in exchange for all the common and preferred interests of those SPVs. On December 1, 2009, AIG transferred the preferred
interests in the SPVs to the FRBNY in consideration for a $25 billion reduction of the outstanding loan balance and of the maximum amount of credit available under the FRBNY Credit Facility and
amended the terms of the FRBNY Credit Facility. As part of the closing of the Recapitalization, the remaining preferred interests, with an aggregate liquidation preference of approximately
$20.3 billion at January 14, 2011, were purchased from the FRBNY by AIG and transferred to the Department of the Treasury as part of the consideration for the exchange of the
Series F Preferred Stock. Under the terms of the SPVs' limited liability company agreements, the SPVs generally may not distribute funds to AIG until the liquidation preferences and preferred
returns on the preferred interests have been repaid in full and concurrent distributions have been made on certain participating returns attributable to the preferred interests.   

      The
common interests, which were retained by AIG, entitle AIG to 100 percent of the voting power of the SPVs. The voting power allows AIG to elect the boards of managers of the
SPVs, who oversee the management and operation of the SPVs. Primarily due to the substantive participation rights of the preferred interests, the SPVs were determined to be variable interest entities.
As the primary beneficiary of the SPVs, AIG consolidates the SPVs.   

      The
rights originally held by the FRBNY through its ownership of the SPV Preferred Interests are now held by the Department of the Treasury. In connection with the Recapitalization, AIG
agreed to cause the proceeds of certain asset dispositions to be used to pay down the remaining SPV Preferred Interests.   

      For
the years ended December 31, 2010 and 2009, the Noncontrolling interests balance declined by $2.2 billion and $4.4 billion. In 2009, this decline reflected the
deconsolidation of Transatlantic in the second quarter of 2009 following the public offering of 29.9 million shares of Transatlantic common stock, after which AIG retained 13.9 percent
of Transatlantic common stock outstanding. AIG also restructured certain relationships within the Institutional Asset Management business in 2009, resulting in the deconsolidation of a subsidiary and
a related decline in goodwill of $476 million and noncontrolling interests of $1.9 billion for the year ended December 31, 2009, due to the deconsolidation of certain entities.   

      As
a result of the closing of the Recapitalization on January 14, 2011, the SPV Preferred Interests held by the Department of the Treasury are not considered permanent equity on
AIG's Consolidated Balance Sheet, and were classified as redeemable non-controlling interests. As part of the Recapitalization, AIG used approximately $6.1 billion of the cash
proceeds from the sale of ALICO to pay down a portion of the liquidation preference of the SPV Preferred Interests. The liquidation preference of the SPV Preferred Interests was further reduced by
approximately $12.4 billion using proceeds from the sale of AIG Star, AIG Edison, Nan Shan, and MetLife securities received in the sale of ALICO. During the first quarter of 2011, the remaining
liquidation preference of the Preferred Interests in the ALICO SPV was paid in full. See Note 16(d) herein for a discussion of indemnity payments made to MetLife pursuant to the terms of the
ALICO stock purchase agreement.   

  334            AIG 2011 Form 10-K  

Table of Contents   

American International Group, Inc.  

   NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS    

   The following table presents a rollforward of non-controlling interests:   

AIG 2011 Form 10-K            335  

Table of Contents    

   American International Group, Inc.   

   NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS     

EARNINGS (LOSS) PER SHARE (EPS)   

      Basic and diluted earnings (loss) per share are based on the weighted average number of common shares outstanding, adjusted to reflect all stock
dividends and stock splits. Diluted earnings per share is based on those shares used in basic EPS plus shares that would have been outstanding assuming issuance of common shares for all dilutive
potential common shares outstanding, adjusted to reflect all stock dividends and stock splits. Basic earnings (loss) per share was not affected by outstanding stock purchase contracts. Diluted
earnings per share is determined considering the potential dilution from outstanding stock purchase contracts using the treasury stock
method and was not affected by the previously outstanding stock purchase contracts because they were not dilutive.   

      In
connection with the issuance of the Series C Preferred Stock, AIG applied the two-class method for calculating EPS. The two-class method is an earnings
allocation method for computing EPS when a company's capital structure includes either two or more classes of common stock or common stock and participating securities. This method determines EPS
based on dividends declared on common stock and participating securities (i.e., distributed earnings) as well as participation rights of participating securities in any undistributed earnings.
The Series C Preferred Stock was retired as part of the Recapitalization on January 14, 2011.   

      AIG
applied the two-class method due to the participation rights of the Series C Preferred Stock through January 14, 2011. However, application of the
two-class method had no effect on earnings per share for 2011 because AIG recognized a net loss attributable to AIG common shareholders from continuing operations, which is not applicable
to participating stock for EPS, for 2011. Subsequent to January 14, 2011, AIG did not have any outstanding participating securities that subjected AIG to the two-class method.   

  336            AIG 2011 Form 10-K  

Table of Contents   

   American International Group, Inc.  

   NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS    

   The following table presents the computation of basic and diluted EPS:   

*       Dilutive shares are calculated using the treasury stock method and include dilutive shares from share-based employee compensation plans, and the warrants
issued to the Department of the Treasury in 2009, and warrants issued to the shareholders in January 2011. The number of shares excluded from diluted shares outstanding were 76 million,
11 million and 12 million for the years ended December 31, 2011, 2010 and 2009, respectively, because the effect would have been anti-dilutive.    

Deemed dividends represent the excess of (i) the fair value of the consideration transferred to the Department of the Treasury, which
consists of 1,092,169,866 shares of AIG Common Stock, $20.2 billion of redeemable SPV Preferred Interests, and a liability for a commitment by AIG to pay the Department of the Treasury's costs
to dispose of all of its shares, over (ii) the carrying value of the Series E and F Preferred Stock. The fair value of the   

  AIG 2011 Form 10-K            337  

Table of Contents   

   American International Group, Inc.  

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS    

AIG
Common Stock issued for the Series C Preferred Stock over the carrying value of the Series C Preferred Stock is not a deemed dividend because the Series C Preferred Stock was
contingently convertible into the 562,868,096 shares of AIG Common Stock for which it was exchanged. See Note 1 herein for further discussion of shares exchanged in connection with the
Recapitalization.   

18. STATUTORY FINANCIAL DATA AND  RESTRICTIONS    

The following table presents statutory surplus and net income (loss) for AIG's general insurance and life insurance and retirement services operations in accordance with
statutory accounting practices:   

(a)       Excludes discontinued operations and other divested businesses. Statutory surplus and net income (loss) with respect to foreign operations are estimated at
November 30.   
       (b)      The 2010 amount was increased by $310 million from that previously reported as a result of the finalization of statutory
filings.   
       (c)      Includes catastrophe losses (General Insurance) and Net realized capital gains and
losses.   
       (d)      Amount subject to change based on final statutory filings.    

AIG's insurance subsidiaries file financial statements prepared in accordance with statutory accounting practices prescribed or permitted by
domestic and foreign insurance regulatory authorities. The principal differences between statutory financial statements and financial statements prepared in accordance with U.S. GAAP for
domestic companies are that statutory financial statements do not reflect DAC, some bond portfolios may be carried at amortized cost, investment impairments are determined in accordance with statutory
accounting practices, assets and liabilities are presented net of reinsurance, policyholder liabilities are generally valued using more conservative assumptions and certain assets are
non-admitted.   

      At
December 31, 2011, 2010 and 2009, statutory capital of AIG's insurance subsidiaries exceeded minimum company action level requirements.   

EFFECT OF NEW STANDARDS   

      Effective January 1, 2009, these domestic life insurance and domestic retirement services insurance entities, as well as certain other AIG
insurance entities were initially required to prospectively adopt Statements of Statutory Accounting Principles (SSAP) No. 98, "Treatment of Cash Flows When Quantifying Changes in Valuation and
Impairments, an Amendment of SSAP No. 43   Loan-backed and Structured Securities" (SSAP 98). However, in the first quarter of 2009, the NAIC subsequently delayed
the effective date of SSAP No. 98 until September 30, 2009, in consideration of the FASB's issuance of a new other-than-temporary accounting standard. The NAIC
subsequently promulgated SSAP 43R (Revised)      Loan-backed and Structured Securities   , which was effective for the third
quarter of 2009 and superseded SSAP No. 43 and also SSAP No. 98, prior to its delayed effective date. Similar to the new other-than-temporary accounting standard,
SSAP No. 43R requires that credit-related other-than-temporary impairments of structured securities be measured based upon projected discounted cash flows. SunAmerica
insurance entities recognized a cumulative effect adjustment upon the adoption of SSAP No. 43R that on a pre-tax basis increased regulatory capital by approximately
$0.9 billion.   

  338            AIG 2011 Form 10-K  

Table of Contents   

   American International Group, Inc.  

   NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS    

SUBSIDIARY DIVIDEND RESTRICTIONS   

      Payments of dividends to AIG by its insurance subsidiaries are subject to certain restrictions imposed by regulatory authorities. With respect to
AIG's domestic insurance subsidiaries, the payment of any dividend requires formal notice to the insurance department in which the particular insurance subsidiary is domiciled. For example, unless
permitted by the New York Superintendent of Insurance, general insurance companies domiciled in New York may not pay dividends to shareholders that, in any 12-month period, exceed the
lesser of ten percent of such company's statutory policyholders' surplus or 100 percent of its "adjusted net investment income," as defined. Generally, less severe restrictions applicable to
both general and life insurance companies exist in most of the other states in which AIG's insurance subsidiaries are domiciled. Under the laws of many states, an insurer may pay a dividend without
prior approval of the insurance regulator when the amount of the dividend is below certain regulatory thresholds. Other foreign jurisdictions may restrict the ability of AIG's foreign insurance
subsidiaries to pay dividends.   

      There
are also various local restrictions limiting cash loans and advances to AIG by its subsidiaries. Largely as a result of these restrictions, approximately 86 percent of the
aggregate equity of AIG's consolidated insurance operations was restricted from transfer to AIG Parent at December 31, 2011. AIG cannot predict how regulatory investigations may affect the
ability of its regulated subsidiaries to pay dividends.   

      To
AIG's knowledge, no AIG insurance company is currently on any regulatory or similar "watch list" with regard to solvency.   

19. SHARE-BASED COMPENSATION AND OTHER  PLANS    

      AIG's Consolidated Statement of Operations included share-based compensation expense as follows:   

*       As of December 31, 2011, compensation expense for the majority of AIG's outstanding share-based awards is attributed to liability-classified awards,
the value of which are based on AIG's share price at the reporting date. AIG's share price was $23.20 and $57.62 at December 31, 2011 and December 31, 2010, respectively, and is the
primary driver of the $349 million decrease in share-based compensation expense recognized in 2011 compared to 2010. Includes pre-tax share-based compensation expense related to
discontinued operations for the years ended December 31, 2010 and 2009 of $12 million ($9 million after tax), and $21 million ($13 million after tax),
respectively.    

EMPLOYEE PLANS   

      AIG employees are granted awards under the AIG 2010 Stock Incentive Plan, as amended (2010 Plan), under which AIG has issued restricted stock,
restricted stock units (RSUs) and stock appreciation rights (SARs). The 2010 Plan supersedes all Plans for which share-based awards remain outstanding and is currently the only plan under which
share-based awards can be issued.   

      However,
awards granted under the following employee compensation plans remain outstanding at December 31, 2011:   

AIG 1999 Stock Option Plan, as amended (1999 Plan) (superseded by the 2007 Plan);     
           AIG 2002 Stock Incentive Plan, as amended (2002 Plan), under which AIG has issued performance restricted stock units
(performance RSUs) (superseded by the 2007 Plan);    
  AIG 2011 Form 10-K            339  

Table of Contents   

   American International Group, Inc.  

   NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS    

AIG 2007 Stock Incentive Plan, as amended (2007 Plan), under which AIG has issued restricted stock units (RSUs),
performance restricted stock units (performance RSUs) and restricted stock (superseded by the 2010 Plan); and    
           SICO's Deferred Compensation Profit Participation Plans (SICO Plans).    

      Share
option exercises and other share awards to participants were settled by issuing previously acquired shares held in AIG's treasury account through November 30, 2009.
Effective December 1, 2009, AIG is settling its share-settled awards with newly-issued shares of AIG Common Stock. Share awards made by SICO are settled by SICO.   

NON-EMPLOYEE PLANS   

AIG's non-employee directors received share-based compensation in the form of deferred stock units (DSUs) under the 2010 Plan with
delivery deferred until retirement from the Board. In 2011 and 2010, AIG granted to directors 21,203 and 14,484 DSUs, respectively.   

STOCK OPTIONS   

AIG Stock Option Plan            

      Options granted under the 2007 Plan and the 1999 Plan remain outstanding at December 31, 2011. These awards generally vested over four
years (25 percent vesting per year) and expire 10 years from the date of grant. There were no stock options granted since 2008; however, in 2011, AIG issued 506 shares in connection with
previous exercises of options with delivery deferred.   

   The following table provides a roll forward of stock option activity:   

The aggregate intrinsic value for all outstanding option is zero. At December 31, 2011, no unrecognized compensation costs remain for
outstanding stock options under these plans.   

OTHER SHARE-SETTLED AWARDS UNDER SHARE-BASED PLANS   

AIG 2010 Stock Incentive Plan            

      The 2010 Plan was adopted at the 2010 Annual Meeting of Shareholders. The total number of shares of common stock that may be granted under the
Plan is 60,000,000 (the reserve). During 2011, AIG granted DSUs, RSUs, restricted stock and stock appreciation rights under the 2010 Plan. Each RSU, DSU and share of restricted stock awarded reduces
the number of shares available for future grants by one share. The reserve is also reduced for the issuance of cash-settled share-based awards regardless of the form in which the award is
originally granted. At December 31, 2011, a total of 31,287,400 shares remained in reserve for future grants under the 2010 Plan.   

      In
December 2011 and 2010, AIG granted 1,135,166 and 587,681, respectively, fully-vested shares of non-transferable AIG Common Stock (restricted stock) under the 2010 Stock
Incentive Plan to certain of AIG's   

  340            AIG 2011 Form 10-K  

Table of Contents   

   American International Group, Inc.  

   NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS    

most
highly compensated employees and executive officers. The restricted stock generally becomes transferable in March of the second year following grant or on the second or third anniversary of grant
in accordance with the terms of the employee's award.   

AIG 2007 Stock Incentive Plan            

      The 2007 Plan was adopted at the 2007 Annual Meeting of Shareholders. The 2010 Plan superseded the 2007 Plan, therefore, there were no grants made
under the 2007 Plan subsequent to May 11, 2010. During 2010, 114,521 time-vested RSUs were granted under the 2007 Plan and will vest on the second or the third anniversary of the
date of grant.   

      In
2010, a total of 118,605 fully-vested shares of non-transferable AIG Common Stock (restricted stock) were granted to certain of AIG's most highly compensated employees and
executive officers under the 2007 Plan. Of such restricted shares, 39,535 became transferable in March 2011 and the remaining restricted stock will become transferable on the second or third
anniversary of grant in accordance with the terms of the employee's award.   

AIG 2002 Stock Incentive Plan            

      The 2002 Plan was adopted in 2002 and superseded by the 2007 Plan. Only the AIG 2005-2006 Deferred Compensation Profit Participation
Plan (DCPPP) and the AIG Partners Plan, which provide share-based compensation to key AIG employees including senior executive officers, remained outstanding under the 2002 Plan at December 31,
2011. Participants in these plans were awarded RSUs if certain market or performance measures were met over a specified period of time as determined by AIG's Compensation and Management Resources
Committee. The RSUs awarded under the DCPPP and the AIG Partners Plan vested in three and two installments, respectively, with the final installments vesting in January 2012; at December 31,
2011, a total of 34,126 and 19,950 RSUs in the respective plans remained outstanding, all of which vested and were settled by the net issuance of AIG Common Stock in January 2012.   

SICO Plans            

      The SICO Plans provide that shares of AIG Common Stock currently held by SICO are set aside for the benefit of the participant and distributed
upon retirement. The SICO Board of Directors currently may permit an early payout of shares under certain circumstances. Prior to payout, the participant is not entitled to vote, dispose of or receive
dividends with respect to such shares, and shares are subject to forfeiture under certain conditions, including but not limited to the participant's termination of employment with AIG prior to normal
retirement age. A significant portion of the awards under the SICO Plans vest the year after the participant reaches age 65, provided that the participant remains employed by AIG through age 65. The
portion of the awards for which early payout is available vest on the applicable payout date.   

      Although
none of the costs of the various benefits provided under the SICO Plans have been paid by AIG, AIG has recorded compensation expense for the deferred compensation amounts
payable to AIG employees by SICO, with an offsetting amount credited to Additional paid-in capital reflecting amounts deemed contributed by SICO.   

      The
SICO Plans are also described in Note 16 herein.   

  AIG 2011 Form 10-K            341  

Table of Contents    

   American International Group, Inc.   

   NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS     

RESTRICTED STOCK AND RESTRICTED STOCK UNIT VALUATION   

      The fair value of restricted stock and RSUs is based on the closing price of AIG Common Stock on the date of grant.   

The following table summarizes outstanding share-settled awards and RSUs that are fully vested on the date of grant but subject to transfer restrictions under the foregoing  plans     *    :       

*       Excludes DSUs and options, which are discussed under the Non-Employee Plans and Stock Options sections above.    

      The total unrecognized compensation cost (net of expected forfeitures) related to unvested SICO awards is $71 million and the
weighted-average and expected period of years over which those costs are expected to be recognized are 5.41 years and 28 years, respectively. The unrecognized expense for all other
awards total $1 million, with a weighted average period of less than one year.   

LIABILITY AWARDS   

      AIG has issued various share-based grants, including restricted stock units, linked to AIG Common Stock, but providing for cash settlement to
certain of its most highly compensated employees and executive officers. Share-based cash settled awards are recorded as liabilities until the final payout is made or the award is replaced with a
stock-settled award. Unlike stock-settled awards, which have a fixed grant-date fair value (unless the award is subsequently modified), the fair value of unsettled or unvested liability
awards is remeasured at the end of each reporting period based on the change in fair value of one share of AIG Common Stock. The liability and corresponding expense are adjusted accordingly until the
award is settled.   

Stock Salary Awards            

      In 2009, AIG established a program of regular grants of vested stock or units that is generally referred to as "Stock Salary". Stock Salary is
determined as a dollar amount through the date that salary is earned and accrued at the same time or times as the salary would otherwise be paid in cash. Stock Salary was granted to any individual
qualifying as a senior executive officer or one of AIG's next twenty most highly compensated employees (the Top 25). Stock Salary for a Top 25 employee (other than AIG's CEO) is settled
in three equal installments on the first, second and third anniversary of grant. Stock Salary was also granted to individuals qualifying as an executive officer or one of AIG's next 75 most highly
compensated employees (Top 26-100), and will be settled on either the first or third anniversary of grant in accordance with the terms of an employee's award. The Stock Salary
grants issued in 2009 were awarded in the form of immediately vested RSUs, and the number of units awarded was based on the value of AIG Common Stock on the grant date. The RSUs are settled in cash
based on the value of AIG Common Stock on the applicable settlement date. During 2011 and 2010, AIG paid $6 million and $18 million to settle awards and recognized a reduction of
$39 million and a charge of $36 million in compensation expense in the respective years for unsettled awards to reflect fluctuations in the price of AIG Common Stock.   

  342            AIG 2011 Form 10-K  

Table of Contents   

   American International Group, Inc.  

   NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS    

      In
2010, AIG adopted the Long-Term Performance Units Plan (LTPU) and awarded Stock Salary in the form of LTPUs. The units were fully vested on the date of grant and
settlement terms are substantially the same as the 2009 Stock Salary awards. Each unit was measured based on the underlying value of a mix of AIG hybrid securities and AIG Common Stock weighted
80 percent and 20 percent, respectively, and both components were market observable. Pursuant to their terms, as a result of the Recapitalization with the Department of the
Treasury, the AIG hybrid securities portion of all outstanding LTPUs was converted into AIG Common Stock based on the values of such securities and AIG Common Stock on April 14, 2011, the time
of the conversion; thereafter, the value of any unsettled 2010 Stock Salary award was based solely on AIG Common Stock. During 2011, AIG paid $29 million to settle the 2010 Stock Salary awards.
AIG also recognized a reduction of $37 million and a charge of $156 million in compensation expense in 2011 and 2010, respectively, related to this plan.   

      The
terms of the 2011 Stock Salary awards for the Top 25 and the Top 26-100 are substantially the same as the 2009 Stock Salary awards, except that the awards
to the Top 26-100 will be settled on the first anniversary of the respective grants. AIG recognized compensation expense of $75 million for fully vested unsettled awards as
of December 31, 2011, which reflects fluctuations in the price of AIG Common Stock during 2011.   

Restricted Stock Units            

TARP RSUs           

      TARP RSUs awarded require the achievement of objective performance metrics as a condition to entitlement. TARP RSUs granted to the Top 25
(other than AIG's CEO) vest on the third anniversary of grant, while TARP RSUs granted to the Top 26-100 vest on the second anniversary of grant and are subject to transferability
restrictions for an additional year after vesting. When vested and transferable, an award will be settled in 25 percent installments in proportion to AIG's repayment of its TARP obligations.   

Other RSUs           

      Fully-vested RSUs totaling 271,131 were issued in March 2011 to certain employees in the Top 26-100 based on 2010 performance.
Similarly, 301,645 fully vested RSUs were issued in March 2010 for performance in 2009. The RSUs for both awards will be cash-settled in March 2014 and 2013 for the 2010 and 2009 grants,
respectively, based on the value of AIG Common Stock on each settlement date. AIG recorded expense of $8 million and $9 million in December 2010 and December 2009, respectively, when the
awards were initially granted.   

Long Term Incentive Plans            

      In 2009, AIG established the Long-Term Incentive Plan (LTIP) under which middle management employees were offered the opportunity to
receive additional compensation in the form of cash and SARs if certain performance metrics are met. The SARs component was added to the 2009 LTIP with the adoption of AIG's 2010 Long-Term
Incentive Plan (2010 LTIP) in March 2010. The ultimate value of LTIP awards is contingent on the achievement of performance measures aligned to the participant's business unit over a
two-year period and such value could range from zero to twice the target amount. Subsequent to the performance period, the earned awards are subject to an additional
time-vesting period. This results in a graded vesting schedule for the cash portion of up to two years, while the SARs portion cliff-vests two years after the performance period ends. The
strike price for the majority of SARs, which is based on AIG's average share price over the 30-day period prior to the March grant date, was $37.40 for SARs issued under the 2011 LTIP. On
January 19, 2011, the previous strike price of $31.91 for SARs issued under both the 2010 LTIP and the 2009 LTIP was adjusted to $26.97 pursuant to anti-dilution provisions of the
LTIP due to the issuance of warrants in connection with the Recapitalization (see Note 1 for additional discussion). The cash portion of the awards expensed in 2011 and 2010 totaled
approximately $199 million and $258 million, respectively. AIG recognizes compensation expense over the respective vesting periods for these plans.   

  AIG 2011 Form 10-K            343  

Table of Contents   

   American International Group, Inc.  

   NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS    

The following table presents a rollforward of SARs and cash-settled RSUs as well as the related expenses:            

(a)       Represent fully vested RSUs that were awarded in March 2011 based on 2010 performance. On December 20, 2011, 87,267 of these RSUs were replaced with
restricted stock, which is reflected in the 2010 Plan discussion and the applicable table above.   
       (b)      The number of SARS outstanding increased by 1,548,574 on January 19, 2011 pursuant to anti-dilution provisions of
the LTIP due to the issuance of warrants in connection with the Recapitalization.   
       (c)      Pursuant to the terms of the LTIP, vesting was accelerated for SARs awarded to employees who became retirement
eligible.    

The total unrecognized compensation cost (net of expected forfeitures) related to unvested SARs and cash-settled RSUs and the weighted-average periods over which  those costs are expected to be recognized are as follows:

Stock Appreciation Rights Valuation           

      AIG uses a Monte Carlo simulation approach, which incorporates a range of input parameters that is consistently applied, to determine the fair
value of SARs awards at each reporting period. The table below presents the assumptions used to estimate the fair value of SARs on December 31, 2011.   

(a)       The dividend yield is estimated at zero percent given AIG's recent dividend history. See Note 17 herein for additional
information.   
       (b)      The expected volatilities are the implied volatilities with the nearest maturity and strike as of valuation date from actively traded
stock options on AIG Common Stock.   
       (c)      The risk-free interest rate is the continuously compounded interest rate for the term between the valuation date and
maturity date that is assumed to be constant and equal to the interpolated value between the closest data points on the USD LIBOR-Swap curve as of valuation
date.   
       (d)      The term to maturity is specified in the contract of each SARs grant.    

344            AIG 2011 Form 10-K  

Table of Contents   

   American International Group, Inc.  

   NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS    

20. EMPLOYEE BENEFITS    

PENSION PLANS   

      AIG, its subsidiaries and certain affiliated companies offer various defined benefit plans to eligible employees based on years of service.   

AIG's
U.S. qualified retirement plan is a noncontributory defined benefit plan which is subject to the provisions of ERISA. U.S. salaried employees who are employed by a participating
company, have attained age 21 and completed 12 months of continuous service are eligible to participate in the plan. Employees generally vest after five years of service. Unreduced benefits are
paid to retirees at normal retirement (age 65) and are based upon a percentage of final average compensation multiplied by years of credited service, up to 44 years. Non-U.S.
defined benefit plans are generally either based on the employee's years of credited service and compensation in the years preceding retirement or on points accumulated based on the employee's job
grade and other factors during each year of service.   

      AIG
also sponsors several non-qualified unfunded defined benefit plans for certain employees, including key executives, designed to supplement pension benefits provided by
AIG's other retirement plans. These include the AIG Excess Retirement Income Plan (Excess), which provides a benefit equal to the reduction in benefits payable to certain employees under the AIG U.S.
qualified retirement plan as a result of federal tax limitations on compensation and benefits payable and the Supplemental Executive Retirement Plan (Supplemental), which provides additional
retirement benefits to designated executives. Under the Supplemental plan, an annual benefit accrues at a percentage of final average pay multiplied by each year of credited service, not greater than
60 percent of final average pay, reduced by any benefits from the current and any predecessor retirement plans (including the Excess Plan and any comparable plans), Social Security, if any, and
from any qualified pension plan of prior employers. AIG has complied with the Special Master for TARP Executive Compensation's mandate to suspend future benefits in the non-qualified
retirement plans for the Top 100 most highly compensated employees of AIG. The impact to AIG's financial statements was not significant.   

      Effective
April 1, 2012, the AIG Retirement and AIG Excess Plans will be converted from final average pay to cash balance formulas comprised of pay credits based on
6 percent of a plan participant's annual compensation
(subject to IRS limitations for the qualified plan) and annual interest credits. However, employees satisfying certain age and service requirements remain covered under the final average pay formula
in the respective plans.   

POSTRETIREMENT PLANS   

      AIG and its subsidiaries also provide postretirement medical care and life insurance benefits in the U.S. and in certain non-U.S.
countries. Eligibility in the various plans is generally based upon completion of a specified period of eligible service and attaining a specified age. Overseas, benefits vary by geographic location.   

      U.S.
postretirement medical and life insurance benefits are based upon the employee electing immediate retirement and having a minimum of ten years of service. Medical benefits are
contributory, while the life insurance benefits are generally non-contributory. Retiree medical contributions vary from requiring no cost for pre-1989 retirees to requiring
actual premium payments reduced by certain credits for post-1993 retirees. These contributions are subject to adjustment annually. Other cost sharing features of the medical plan include
deductibles, coinsurance and, Medicare coordination. Effective April 1, 2012, the retiree medical employer subsidy for the AIG Postretirement plan will be eliminated for certain employees.   

  AIG 2011 Form 10-K            345  

Table of Contents   

   American International Group, Inc.  

   NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS    

The following table presents the funded status of the plans, reconciled to the amount reported in the Consolidated Balance Sheet. The measurement date for most of the  non-U.S. defined benefit pension and postretirement
plans is November 30, consistent with the fiscal year end of the sponsoring companies. For all other plans, measurement occurs as  of December 31.            

(a)       AIG does not currently fund postretirement benefits.   
       (b)      Includes unfunded plans for which the aggregate pension benefit obligation was $267 million and $627 million at
December 2011 and 2010, respectively. For 2011 and 2010, approximately 32 percent and 72 percent pertain to Japanese plans, which are not required by local regulation to be funded. The
projected benefit obligation for these plans total $86 million and $454 million, respectively. The decrease is primarily attributed to the AIG Star and AIG Edison
divestiture.   
       (c)      Includes non-qualified unfunded plans, for which the aggregate projected benefit obligation was $210 million and
$219 million at December 2011 and 2010, respectively.    

  346            AIG 2011 Form 10-K  

Table of Contents   

   American International Group, Inc.  

   NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS    

      At December 31, 2011, the funded status for the Non-U.S. pension plans was reduced by $614 million from
December 31, 2010 primarily due to the divestitures of AIG Star, AIG Edison and Nan Shan, which are included in Dispositions in the table above.   

The following table presents the accumulated benefit obligations for non-U.S. and U.S. pension benefit plans:            

Defined benefit pension plan obligations in which the projected benefit obligation was in excess of the related plan assets and the accumulated benefit obligation was in  excess of the related plan assets were as
follows:            

The following table presents the components of net periodic benefit cost recognized in income and other amounts recognized in Accumulated other comprehensive income (loss)  with respect to the defined benefit
pension plans and other postretirement benefit plans:            

AIG 2011 Form 10-K            347  

Table of Contents   

   American International Group, Inc.  

   NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS    

The estimated net loss and prior service credit that will be amortized from Accumulated other comprehensive income into net periodic benefit cost
over the next fiscal year are $130 million and $38 million, respectively, for AIG's combined defined benefit pension plans. For the defined benefit postretirement plans, the estimated
amortization from Accumulated other comprehensive income for net loss and prior service credit that will be amortized into net periodic benefit cost over the next fiscal year will be less than
$11 million in the aggregate.   

      The
annual pension expense in 2012 for the AIG U.S. and non-U.S. defined benefit pension plans is expected to be approximately $273 million. A 100 basis point increase
in the discount rate or expected long-term rate of return would decrease the 2012 expense by approximately $82 million and $40 million, respectively, with all other items
remaining the same. Conversely, a 100 basis point decrease in the discount rate or expected long-term rate of return would increase the 2012 expense by approximately $87 million and
$40 million, respectively, with all other items remaining the same.   

ASSUMPTIONS   

   The following table summarizes the weighted average assumptions used to determine the benefit obligations:     

(a)       The non-U.S. plans reflect those assumptions that were most appropriate for the local economic environments of each of the subsidiaries
providing such benefits.   
       (b)      Due to plan amendments effective in 2012, the AIG Retirement, Excess and Postretirement Plans were remeasured at September 30,
2011 using the following discount rates 4.5, 4.25 and 4.5 percents, respectively,    

The following table summarizes assumed health care cost trend rates for the U.S. plans:            

*       Increase in ultimate trend rate is based on the current expectation of future increases in medical and prescription drug costs.    

A one percent point change in the assumed healthcare cost trend rate would have the following effect on AIG's postretirement benefit
obligations:     

AIG's postretirement plans provide benefits primarily in the form of defined employer contributions rather than defined employer benefits. Changes
in the assumed healthcare cost trend rate are subject to caps for U.S. plans. AIG's non-U.S. postretirement plans are not subject to caps.   

348            AIG 2011 Form 10-K  

Table of Contents    

American International Group, Inc.   

   NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS     

   The following table presents the weighted average assumptions used to determine the net periodic benefit costs:   

(a)       The non-U.S. plans reflect those assumptions that were most appropriate for the local economic environments of the subsidiaries providing such
benefits.   
       (b)      As a result of plan amendments effective April 1, 2012, the AIG Retirement and AIG Excess Plans were remeasured utilizing a
discount rate of 4.5 and 4.25 percent, respectively at September 30, 2011.   
       (c)      As a result of a plan amendment effective April 1, 2012, the AIG Postretirement Plan was remeasured utilizing a discount rate
of 4.5 percent at September 30, 2011.    

Discount Rate Methodology            

      The projected benefit cash flows under the U.S. AIG Retirement plan were discounted using the spot rates derived from the Mercer Pension Discount
Yield Curve at December 31, 2011 and the Citigroup Pension Discount Curve rounded to the nearest 25 basis points at December 31, 2010, which resulted in a single discount rate that would
produce the same liability at the respective measurement dates. The discount rates were 4.62 percent at December 31, 2011 and 5.5 percent at December 31, 2010. Each
methodology was consistently applied for the respective years in determining the discount rates for the other U.S. plans.   

      In
general, the discount rates for non-U.S. pension plans were developed based on the duration of liabilities on a plan by plan basis and were selected by reference to high
quality corporate bonds in developed markets or local government bonds where developed markets are not as robust or nonexistent.   

The
projected benefit obligation for Japan represents approximately 62 and 76 percent of the total projected benefit obligations for AIG's non-U.S. pension plans at
December 31, 2011 and 2010, respectively. The weighted average discount rate of 1.70 and 1.50 percent for Japan was selected by reference to the AA rated corporate bonds reported by
Rating and Investment Information, Inc. in 2011 and Moody's/S P in 2010 based on the duration of the plans' liabilities.   

Plan Assets            

      The investment strategy with respect to assets relating to AIG's U.S. and non-U.S. pension plans is designed to achieve investment
returns that will (a) provide for the benefit obligations of the plans over the long term; (b) limit the risk of short-term funding shortfalls; and (c) maintain
liquidity sufficient to address cash needs. Accordingly, the asset allocation strategy is designed to maximize the investment rate of return while managing various risk factors, including but not
limited to, volatility relative to the benefit obligations, diversification and concentration, and the risk and rewards profile indigenous to each asset class.   

      There
were no shares of AIG Common Stock included in the U.S. and non-U.S. pension plans assets at December 31, 2011 or 2010.   

  AIG 2011 Form 10-K            349  

Table of Contents   

   American International Group, Inc.  

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS    

U.S. Pension Plans           

      The long-term strategic asset allocation is reviewed and revised approximately every three years. The plans' assets are monitored by
the investment committee of AIG's Retirement Board and the investment managers, which can entail allocating the plans assets among approved asset classes within pre-approved ranges
permitted by the strategic allocation.   

   The following table presents the asset allocation percentage by major asset class for U.S. pension plans and the target allocation:   

The expected long-term rate of return for the plan was 7.5 and 7.75 percent for 2011 and 2010, respectively. The expected rate
of return is an aggregation of expected returns within each asset class category. The expected asset return and any contributions made by AIG together are expected to maintain the plans' ability to
meet all required benefit obligations. The expected asset return with respect to each asset class was developed based on a building block approach that considers historical returns, current market
conditions, asset volatility and the expectations for future market returns. While the assessment of the expected rate of return is long-term and thus not expected to change annually,
significant changes in investment strategy or economic conditions may warrant such a change. The expected asset return and any contributions made by AIG together are expected to maintain the plan's
ability to meet all required benefit obligations.   

Non-U.S. Pension Plans           

      The assets of the non-U.S. pension plans are held in various trusts in multiple countries and are invested primarily in equities and
fixed maturity securities to maximize the long-term return on assets for a given level of risk.   

   The following table presents the asset allocation percentage by major asset class for Non-U.S. pension plans and the target allocation:   

The expected weighted average long-term rates of return for the non-U.S. pension plans was 3.14 and 3.75 percent
for the years ended December 31, 2011 and 2010, respectively. The expected rate of return for each country is an aggregation of expected returns within each asset class for such country. For
each country, the return with respect to each asset class was developed based on a building block approach that considers historical returns, current market conditions, asset volatility and the
expectations for future market returns. While the assessment of the expected rate of return is long-term and not expected to change annually, significant changes in   

  350            AIG 2011 Form 10-K  

Table of Contents   

   American International Group, Inc.  

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS    

investment
strategy or economic conditions may warrant such a change. The expected asset return and any contributions made by AIG together are expected to maintain the plan's ability to meet all
required benefit obligations.   

ASSETS MEASURED AT FAIR VALUE   

      AIG is required to disclose the level of the fair value measurement of its plan assets. The inputs and methodology used in determining the fair
value of the plan assets are consistent with those used by AIG to measure its assets as noted in Note 6 herein.   

   The following table presents information about AIG's plan assets based on the level within the fair value hierarchy in which the fair value measurement
falls:   

(a)       Includes index funds that primarily track several indices including S P 500 and S P 600 in addition to other actively managed accounts,
comprised of investments in large cap companies.    

AIG 2011 Form 10-K            351  

Table of Contents   

American International Group, Inc.  

   NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS    

(b)      Includes investments in companies in emerging and developed markets.   
       (c)      Represents investments in U.S. and non-U.S. government issued bonds, U.S. government agency or sponsored agency bonds,
and investment grade corporate bonds.   
       (d)      Consists primarily of investments in securities or debt obligations that have a rating below investment
grade.   
       (e)      Comprised primarily of investments that are guaranteed by a U.S. government agency.   
       (f)      Includes funds comprised of macro, event driven, long/short equity, and controlled risk hedge fund strategies and a separately
managed controlled risk strategy.   
       (g)      Includes funds that are diverse by geography, investment strategy, and sector.    

The inputs or methodologies used for valuing securities are not necessarily an indication of the risk associated with investing in these
securities. Based on AIG's investment strategy, AIG has no significant concentrations of risks.   

The
U.S. pension plan holds a group annuity contract with US Life, an AIG subsidiary, which totaled $31 million and $32 million at December 31, 2011 and 2010,
respectively.   

      The
non-U.S. pension plans held an insurance contract with AIG Star, a former AIG subsidiary, which totaled $64 million at December 31, 2010.   

Changes in Level 3 fair value measurements            

   The following table presents changes in AIG's non-U.S. and U.S. Level 3 plan assets measured at fair value:   

352            AIG 2011 Form 10-K  

Table of Contents   

   American International Group, Inc.  

   NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS    

Transfers of Level 1 and Level 2 Assets and Liabilities            

      AIG's policy is to record transfers of assets and liabilities between Level 1 and Level 2 at their fair values as of the end of each
reporting period, consistent with the date of the determination of fair value. Assets are transferred out of Level 1 when they are no longer transacted with sufficient frequency and volume in
an active market. Conversely, assets are transferred from Level 2 to Level 1 when transaction volume and frequency are indicative of an active market. AIG had no significant transfers
between Level 1 and Level 2 during the twelve months ended December 31, 2011.   

Transfers of Level 3 Assets            

      During the year ended December 31, 2011, transfers into Level 3 included certain corporate high yield and mortgage backed
securities. The transfers into Level 3 related to investments in certain corporate high yield and mortgage backed securities were due to a decrease in market transparency, downward credit
migration and an overall increase in price disparity for certain individual security types.   

EXPECTED CASH FLOWS   

      Funding for the U.S. pension plan ranges from the minimum amount required by ERISA to the maximum amount that would be deductible for U.S. tax
purposes. Contributed amounts in excess of the minimum amounts are deemed voluntary. Amounts in excess of the maximum amount would be subject to an excise tax and may not be deductible under the
Internal Revenue Code. There are no minimum required cash contributions for the AIG Retirement Plan in 2012. Supplemental, Excess and postretirement plan payments are deductible when paid.   

      AIG's
annual pension contribution in 2012 is expected to be approximately $91 million for its non-U.S. and U.S. non-qualified plans. No contributions to
the AIG Retirement Plan are currently anticipated. These estimates are subject to change, since contribution decisions are affected by various factors including AIG's liquidity, market performance and
management's discretion.   

  AIG 2011 Form 10-K            353  

Table of Contents    

   American International Group, Inc.   

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS     

   The expected future benefit payments, net of participants' contributions, with respect to the defined benefit pension plans and other postretirement
benefit plans, are as follows:   

DEFINED CONTRIBUTION PLANS   

      In addition to several small defined contribution plans, AIG sponsors a voluntary savings plan for U.S. employees which provides for salary
reduction contributions by employees and matching U.S. contributions by AIG of up to seven percent of annual salary depending on the employees' years of service subject to certain compensation limits.
Pre-tax expense associated with this plan was $99 million, $103 million and $100 million in 2011, 2010 and 2009, respectively.   

      Effective
January 1, 2012, the plan was amended to change the company matching contribution to 100% of the first six percent of participant contributions and to allow all
employees to contribute up to the annual IRS contribution maximum of $17,000.   

21. OWNERSHIP    

      The Department of the Treasury holds 1,455,037,962 shares of AIG Common Stock, representing ownership of approximately 77 percent of the
outstanding AIG Common Stock at December 31, 2011. For discussion of the Recapitalization and the ownership by the Department of the Treasury, see Note 1 herein.   

      A
Schedule 13G filed February 17, 2012 reports aggregate ownership of 116,573,542 shares, or approximately 6.1 percent (based on the AIG Common Stock outstanding, as
adjusted to reflect the warrants owned), of AIG Common Stock and warrants (92,044,583 shares plus 24,528,959 warrants) as of December 31, 2011, including securities beneficially owned by The
Fairholme Fund and other funds and investment vehicles managed by Fairholme Capital Management and securities owned by Mr. Bruce Berkowitz personally.   

      The
calculation of ownership interest for purposes of the AIG Tax Asset Protection Plan and Article 13 of AIG's Restated Certificate of Incorporation is different than beneficial
ownership for Schedule 13G. To the best of AIG's knowledge, the Department of the Treasury is the only person deemed for such purposes to have an ownership interest of 4.99 percent or
more of AIG Common Stock at December 31, 2011.   

22. INCOME TAXES    

The following table presents income (loss) from continuing operations before income tax expense (benefit) by U.S. and foreign location in which such pre-tax income
(loss) was earned or incurred.   

354            AIG 2011 Form 10-K  

Table of Contents   

   American International Group, Inc.  

   NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS    

The following table presents the income tax expense (benefit) attributable to pre-tax income (loss) from continuing
operations:   

AIG's actual income tax (benefit) expense differs from the statutory U.S. federal amount computed by applying the federal income tax
rate due to the following:   

For the year ended December 31, 2011, the effective tax rate on pre-tax loss from continuing operations was not meaningful, due
to the significant effect of releasing approximately $16.6 billion of the deferred tax asset valuation allowance. Other less significant factors that contributed to the difference from the
statutory rate included tax benefits of $454 million associated with tax exempt interest income, $346 million associated with the effect of foreign operations, and $224 million
associated with AIG's investment in subsidiaries and partnerships   

  AIG 2011 Form 10-K            355  

Table of Contents   

   American International Group, Inc.  

   NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS    

      For
the year ended December 31, 2010, the effective tax rate on pre-tax income from continuing operations was 32.7 percent. The effective tax rate for the year
ended December 31, 2010, attributable to continuing operations differs from the statutory rate primarily due to tax benefits of $1.3 billion associated with AIG's investment in
subsidiaries and partnerships, principally the AIA SPV which is treated as a partnership for U.S. tax purposes, and $587 million associated with tax exempt interest, partially offset by an
increase in the valuation allowance attributable to continuing operations of $1.5 billion.   

      For
the year ended December 31, 2009, the effective tax rate on pre-tax loss from continuing operations was 10.4 percent. The effective tax rate on the
pre-tax loss from continuing operations for the year ended December 31, 2009, differs from the statutory rate primarily due to increases in the valuation allowance of
$3.1 billion and reserve for uncertain tax positions of $874 million, partially offset by tax exempt interest of $677 million and the change in investment in subsidiaries and
partnerships of $473 million which was principally related to changes in the estimated U.S. tax liability with respect to the potential sales of subsidiaries.   

   The following table presents the components of the net deferred tax assets (liabilities):   

The following table presents AIG's U.S. consolidated income tax group tax losses and credits carryforwards as of December 31,
2011 on a tax return basis.   

356            AIG 2011 Form 10-K  

Table of Contents   

   American International Group, Inc.  

   NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS    

ASSESSMENT OF DEFERRED TAX ASSET VALUATION ALLOWANCE   

      The evaluation of the recoverability of the deferred tax asset and the need for a valuation allowance requires AIG to weigh all positive and
negative evidence to reach a conclusion that it is more likely than not that all or some portion of the deferred tax asset will not be realized. The weight given to the evidence is commensurate with
the extent to which it can be objectively verified. The more negative evidence that exists, the more positive evidence is necessary and the more difficult it is to support a conclusion that a
valuation allowance is not needed.   

      AIG's
framework for assessing the recoverability of deferred tax assets weighs the sustainability of recent operating profitability, the predictability of future operating profitability
of the character necessary to realize the deferred tax assets, and AIG's emergence from cumulative losses in recent years. The framework requires AIG to consider all available evidence,
including:   

the nature, frequency, and severity of cumulative financial reporting losses in recent years;     
           the sustainability of recent operating profitability of AIG's subsidiaries in various tax jurisdictions;    
           the predictability of future operating profitability of the character necessary to realize the net deferred tax asset;    
           the carryforward periods for the net operating loss, capital loss and foreign tax credit carryforwards, including the
effect of reversing taxable temporary differences; and,    
           prudent and feasible tax planning strategies that would be implemented, if necessary, to protect against the loss of the
deferred tax assets.    

During
2011, AIG experienced significant favorable developments, including the completion of the Recapitalization in January 2011, the wind-down of AIGFP's portfolios, the
sale of certain businesses, emergence from cumulative losses in recent years and a return to sustainable operating profits within its primary operations. During 2011, AIG's level of profitability,
excluding the $3.3 billion loss on extinguishment of debt in January confirmed its return to sustainable operating profit for the full year. This, together with the emergence from cumulative
losses in recent years and projections of sufficient future taxable income, represent significant positive evidence. As of December 31, 2011, the cumulative positive evidence outweighed the
historical negative evidence regarding the likelihood that the deferred tax asset for AIG's U.S. consolidated income tax group (other than the life-insurance-business capital loss
carryforwards) will be realized. This assessment was evidenced by AIG meeting all of the criteria in its framework, resulting in its conclusion that $16.6 billion of the deferred tax asset
valuation allowance for AIG's U.S. consolidated income tax group should be released in 2011. The life-insurance-business capital loss carryforwards may be realized in the future if and
when either capital gains are realized or when prudent and feasible tax planning strategies are identified that result in an assessment that the life-insurance-business capital loss
carryforwards will be realized on a more-likely-than-not basis prior to their expiration.   

  AIG 2011 Form 10-K            357  

Table of Contents   

   American International Group, Inc.  

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS    

   The following table presents the net deferred tax assets (liabilities) for December 31, 2011, and December 31, 2010, respectively, on a U.S. GAAP
basis:   

*       Amount includes deferred tax liabilities for certain jurisdictions which are not available to offset deferred tax assets from other
jurisdictions.    

DEFERRED TAX ASSET VALUATION ALLOWANCE OF U.S. CONSOLIDATED INCOME TAX GROUP   

      At December 31, 2011, and December 31, 2010, AIG's U.S. consolidated income tax group had net deferred tax assets (liabilities)
after valuation allowance of $17.5 billion and $(178) million, respectively. At December 31, 2011, and December 31, 2010, AIG's U.S. consolidated income tax group had
valuation allowances of $7.2 billion and $23.8 billion, respectively.   

      For
the year ended December 31, 2011, the decrease in the U.S. consolidated income tax group deferred tax asset valuation allowance was $16.6 billion. The entire decrease
in valuation allowance was allocated to continuing operations. The amount allocated to continuing operations also included the decrease in the valuation allowance attributable to the anticipated
inclusion of the ALICO SPV within the 2011 U.S. consolidated federal income tax return.   

DEFERRED TAX LIABILITY   FOREIGN, STATE AND LOCAL   

      At December 31, 2011 and December 31, 2010, AIG had net deferred tax liabilities of $942 million and $1.1 billion,
respectively, related to foreign subsidiaries, state and local tax jurisdictions, and certain domestic subsidiaries that file separate tax returns.   

      At
December 31, 2011 and December 31, 2010, AIG had deferred tax asset valuation allowances of $3.8 billion and $3.2 billion, respectively, related to foreign
subsidiaries, state and local tax jurisdictions, and certain domestic subsidiaries that file separate tax returns. AIG maintained these valuation allowances following its conclusion that it could not
demonstrate that it was more likely than not that the related deferred tax assets will be realized. This was primarily due to factors such as cumulative losses in recent years and the inability to
demonstrate profits within the specific jurisdictions over the relevant carryforward periods.   

TAX EXAMINATIONS AND LITIGATION   

      AIG and its eligible U.S. subsidiaries file a consolidated U.S. federal income tax return. Several U.S. subsidiaries included in the
consolidated financial statements previously filed separate U.S. federal income tax returns and were not part of the AIG U.S. consolidated income tax group. Subsidiaries operating outside the U.S. are
taxed, and income tax expense is recorded, based on applicable U.S. and foreign law.   

  358            AIG 2011 Form 10-K  

Table of Contents    

   American International Group, Inc.   

   NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS     

      The statute of limitations for all tax years prior to 2000 has expired for AIG's consolidated federal income tax return. AIG is currently under examination for
the tax years 2000 through 2006.   

      On
March 20, 2008, AIG received a Statutory Notice of Deficiency (Notice) from the IRS for years 1997 to 1999. The Notice asserted that AIG owes additional taxes and penalties for
these years primarily due to the disallowance of foreign tax credits associated with cross-border financing transactions. The transactions that are the subject of the Notice extend beyond the period
covered by the Notice, and the IRS is challenging the later periods. It is also possible that the IRS will consider other transactions to be similar to these transactions. AIG has paid the assessed
tax plus interest and penalties for 1997 to 1999. On February 26, 2009, AIG filed a complaint in the United States District Court for the Southern District of New York seeking a refund of
approximately $306 million in taxes, interest and penalties paid with respect to its 1997 taxable year. AIG alleges that the IRS
improperly disallowed foreign tax credits and that AIG's taxable income should be reduced as a result of AIG's 2005 restatement of its consolidated financial statements.   

On
March 29, 2011, the U.S. District Court, Southern District of New York, ruled on a motion for partial summary judgment that AIG filed on July 30, 2010 related to the
disallowance of foreign tax credits associated with cross border financing transactions. The court denied AIG's motion with leave to renew following the completion of discovery regarding certain
transactions referred to in AIG's motion, which AIG believes may be significant to the outcome of the action.   

      AIG
also filed an administrative refund claim on September 9, 2010 for its 1998 and 1999 tax years. AIG will vigorously defend its position, and continues to believe that it has
adequate reserves for any liability that could result from the IRS actions.   

ACCOUNTING FOR UNCERTAINTY IN INCOME TAXES   

   The following table presents a rollforward of the beginning and ending balances of the total amounts of gross unrecognized tax benefits:   

At December 31, 2011, 2010 and 2009, AIG's unrecognized tax benefits related to tax positions that if recognized would not affect the
effective tax rate as they relate to such factors as the timing, rather than the permissibility, of the deduction were $0.7 billion, $1.7 billion and $1.4 billion, respectively.
Accordingly, at December 31, 2011, 2010 and 2009, the amounts of unrecognized tax benefits that, if recognized, would favorably affect the effective tax rate were $3.5 billion,
$3.6 billion and $3.4 billion, respectively.   

      The
decrease in the gross unrecognized tax benefits for 2011 was primarily related to tax positions that did not affect the effective tax rate because they relate to timing.   

      Interest
and penalties related to unrecognized tax benefits are recognized in income tax expense. At December 31, 2011 and 2010, AIG had accrued liabilities of $744 million
and $952 million, respectively, for the payment of interest (net of the federal benefit) and penalties. For the years ended December 31, 2011, 2010 and 2009, AIG accrued expense
(benefits) of $(170) million, $152 million and $393 million, respectively, for the payment of interest (net of the federal benefit) and penalties.   

  AIG 2011 Form 10-K            359  

Table of Contents   

   American International Group, Inc.  

   NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS    

      AIG
regularly evaluates adjustments proposed by taxing authorities. At December 31, 2011, such proposed adjustments would not have resulted in a material change to AIG's
consolidated financial condition, although it is possible that the effect could be material to AIG's consolidated results of operations for an individual reporting period. Although it is reasonably
possible that a change in the balance of unrecognized tax benefits may occur within the next 12 months, based on the information currently available, AIG does not expect any change to be
material to AIG's consolidated financial condition.   

   Listed below are the tax years that remain subject to examination by major tax jurisdictions:   

360            AIG 2011 Form 10-K  

Table of Contents   

   American International Group, Inc.  

   NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS    

23. QUARTERLY FINANCIAL INFORMATION  (UNAUDITED)    

CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF INCOME (LOSS)   

AIG 2011 Form 10-K            361  

Table of Contents   

   American International Group, Inc.  

   NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS    

24. INFORMATION PROVIDED IN CONNECTION WITH OUTSTANDING  DEBT    

      The following condensed consolidating financial statements reflect the results of SunAmerica Financial Group, Inc. (SAFG, Inc.),
formerly known as AIG Life Holdings (U.S.), Inc. (AIGLH), a holding company and a wholly owned subsidiary of AIG. AIG provides a full and unconditional guarantee of all outstanding debt of
SAFG, Inc.   

CONDENSED CONSOLIDATING BALANCE SHEET   

362            AIG 2011 Form 10-K  

Table of Contents   

   American International Group, Inc.  

   NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS    

CONDENSED CONSOLIDATING BALANCE SHEET      (Continued)   

(a)       Includes intercompany derivative asset positions, which are reported at fair value before credit valuation
adjustment.   
       (b)      Eliminated in consolidation.   
       (c)      For December 31, 2011 and December 31, 2010, includes intercompany tax payable of $9.8 billion and
$28.1 billion, respectively, and intercompany derivative liabilities of $901 million and $150 million, respectively, for American International Group, Inc. (As Guarantor)
and intercompany tax receivable of $128 million and $152 million, respectively, for SAFG, Inc.    

AIG 2011 Form 10-K            363  

Table of Contents    

   American International Group, Inc.   

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS     

CONDENSED CONSOLIDATING STATEMENT OF INCOME (LOSS)     

364            AIG 2011 Form 10-K  

Table of Contents   

   American International Group, Inc.  

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS    

CONDENSED CONSOLIDATING STATEMENT OF INCOME (LOSS)      (Continued)   

(a)      Eliminated in consolidation.   
       (b)      Includes intercompany income of $489 million, $2.6 billion, and $3.4 billion for 2011, 2010, and 2009,
respectively, for American International Group, Inc. (As Guarantor).   
       (c)      Includes intercompany interest expense of $700 million, $28 million, and $27 million for 2011, 2010, and 2009,
respectively, for American International Group, Inc. (As Guarantor).   
       (d)      For 2010 and 2009, income taxes recorded by American International Group, Inc. (As Guarantor) include deferred tax expense
attributable to foreign businesses sold and a valuation allowance to reduce the consolidated deferred tax asset to the amount more likely than not to be realized. For 2011, the income tax benefit
includes the effect of releasing a significant portion of the deferred tax asset valuation allowance. See Note 22 herein for additional information.    

AIG 2011 Form 10-K            365  

Table of Contents    

American International Group, Inc.   

   NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS     

CONDENSED CONSOLIDATING STATEMENT OF CASH FLOWS   

366            AIG 2011 Form 10-K  

Table of Contents   

   American International Group, Inc.  

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS    

CONDENSED CONSOLIDATING STATEMENT OF CASH FLOWS      (Continued)   

AIG 2011 Form 10-K            367  

Table of Contents   

   American International Group, Inc.  

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS    

CONDENSED CONSOLIDATING STATEMENT OF CASH FLOWS      (Continued)   

*      Includes activities related to the Recapitalization. See Note 17 herein.    

  368            AIG 2011 Form 10-K  

Table of Contents   

   American International Group, Inc.  

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS    

SUPPLEMENTARY DISCLOSURE OF CASH FLOW INFORMATION:   

*      Includes payment of FRBNY Credit Facility accrued compounded interest of $4.7 billion in the first quarter of
2011.    

   American International Group, Inc. (As Guarantor) supplementary disclosure of non-cash
activities:   

AIG 2011 Form 10-K            369  

Table of Contents    

   American International Group, Inc.   

Part II          

ITEM 9. CHANGES IN AND DISAGREEMENTS WITH ACCOUNTANTS ON ACCOUNTING AND  FINANCIAL DISCLOSURE            

None.   

ITEM 9A. CONTROLS AND PROCEDURES            

EVALUATION OF DISCLOSURE CONTROLS AND PROCEDURES    

      Disclosure controls and procedures are designed to ensure that information required to be disclosed in reports filed or submitted under the
Securities Exchange Act of 1934 (the Exchange Act) is recorded, processed, summarized and reported within the time periods specified in SEC rules and forms and that such information is accumulated and
communicated to management, including the Chief Executive Officer and Chief Financial Officer, to allow timely decisions regarding required disclosures. In connection with the preparation of this
Annual Report on Form 10-K, an evaluation was carried out by AIG management, with the participation of AIG's Chief Executive Officer and Chief Financial Officer, of the
effectiveness of AIG's disclosure controls and procedures (as defined in Rules 13a-15(e) and 15d-15(e) under the Exchange Act as of December 31, 2011). Based on
this evaluation, AIG's Chief Executive Officer and Chief Financial Officer concluded that AIG's disclosure controls and procedures were effective as of December 31, 2011.   

MANAGEMENT'S REPORT ON INTERNAL CONTROL OVER FINANCIAL REPORTING   

      Management of AIG is responsible for establishing and maintaining adequate internal control over financial reporting. AIG's internal control over
financial reporting is a process, under the supervision of AIG's Chief Executive Officer and Chief Financial Officer, designed to provide reasonable assurance regarding the reliability of financial
reporting and the preparation of AIG's financial statements for external purposes in accordance with U.S. GAAP.   

      Because
of its inherent limitations, internal control over financial reporting may not prevent or detect misstatements. Also, projections of any evaluation of effectiveness to future
periods are subject to the risk that controls may become inadequate because of changes in conditions, or that the degree of compliance with the policies or procedures may deteriorate.   

      AIG
management conducted an assessment of the effectiveness of AIG's internal control over financial reporting as of December 31, 2011 based on the criteria established in
Internal Control   Integrated Framework issued by the Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of the Treadway Commission (COSO).   

      AIG
management has concluded that, as of December 31, 2011, AIG's internal control over financial reporting was effective based on the criteria articulated in     Internal Control   Integrated Framework    issued by the COSO. The effectiveness of AIG's internal control over financial reporting as
of December 31, 2011 has been audited by PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP, an independent registered public accounting firm, as stated in their report, which is included in this Annual Report
on Form 10-K.   

CHANGES IN INTERNAL CONTROL OVER FINANCIAL REPORTING   

      AIG continues its implementation of new technology solutions, which began in 2010, to mitigate the reliance on manual controls and to improve its
internal controls relating to the period-end financial reporting and consolidation process, income taxes and reporting for non-standard transactions. As a result, AIG has
updated its internal controls to accommodate the modifications to its business processes and accounting procedures. AIG has evaluated the effect on its internal control over financial reporting of
this implementation for the quarter ended December 31, 2011, and determined that this conversion has not materially affected, and is not reasonably likely to materially affect, AIG's internal
control over financial reporting. There have been no other changes in AIG's internal control over financial reporting that have occurred during the quarter ended December 31, 2011 that have
materially affected, or are reasonably likely to materially affect, AIG's internal control over financial reporting.   

370            AIG 2011 Form 10-K  

Table of Contents   

   American International Group, Inc.  

Part III          

ITEM 10. DIRECTORS, EXECUTIVE OFFICERS AND CORPORATE GOVERNANCE            

      Except for the information provided in Part I under the heading "Directors and Executive Officers of AIG", information required by
Items 10, 11, 12, 13 and 14 of this Form 10-K are incorporated by reference from the definitive proxy statement for AIG's 2012 Annual Meeting of Shareholders, which will be
filed with the SEC not later than 120 days after the close of the fiscal year pursuant to Regulation 14A.   

ITEM 11. EXECUTIVE COMPENSATION            

      See Item 10 herein.   

ITEM 12. SECURITY OWNERSHIP OF CERTAIN BENEFICIAL OWNERS AND MANAGEMENT AND RELATED STOCKHOLDER  MATTERS            

      See Item 10 herein.   

ITEM 13. CERTAIN RELATIONSHIPS AND RELATED TRANSACTIONS, AND DIRECTOR INDEPENDENCE            

      See Item 10 herein.   

ITEM 14. PRINCIPAL ACCOUNTING FEES AND SERVICES            

See Item 10 herein.   

  AIG 2011 Form 10-K            371  

Table of Contents    

   American International Group, Inc.   

Part IV          

ITEM 15. EXHIBITS, FINANCIAL STATEMENT SCHEDULES            

(a)    Financial
Statements and Schedules. See accompanying Index to Financial Statements.
      (b)    Exhibits.
See accompanying Exhibit Index.
      (c)    Audited
financial statements for AIA Group Limited as of November 30, 2011 and for the year then ended, required pursuant to
Rule 3-09 of Regulation S-X, will be filed by amendment to this Annual Report on Form 10-K.    

  372            AIG 2011 Form 10-K  

Table of Contents    

   American International Group, Inc.   

      SIGNATURES     

      Pursuant to the requirements of Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, the Registrant has duly
caused this Annual Report on Form 10-K to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned, thereunto duly authorized, on the 23rd of February, 2012.   

AMERICAN INTERNATIONAL GROUP, INC.   

By  
      
   /s/ ROBERT H. BENMOSCHE 

(Robert H. Benmosche, President and 
Chief Executive Officer)  

KNOW ALL PERSONS BY THESE PRESENTS, that each person whose signature appears below constitutes and appoints Robert H. Benmosche and David L.
Herzog, and each of them severally, his or her true and lawful attorney-in-fact, with full power of substitution and resubstitution, to sign in his or her name, place and
stead, in any and all capacities, to do any and all things and execute any and all instruments that such attorney may deem necessary or advisable under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended,
and any rules, regulations and requirements of the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission in connection with this Annual Report on Form 10-K and any and all amendments hereto, as
fully for all intents and purposes as he or she might or could do in person, and hereby ratifies and confirms all said attorneys-in-fact and agents, each acting alone, and his
or her substitute or substitutes, may lawfully do or cause to be done by virtue hereof.   

      Pursuant
to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, this Annual Report on Form 10-K has been signed below by the following persons on
behalf of the Registrant and in the capacities indicated on the 23rd of February, 2012.   

Signature

Title

/s/ ROBERT H. BENMOSCHE 

(Robert H. Benmosche)  
     
  President, Chief Executive Officer and Director 
(Principal Executive Officer)  

/s/ DAVID L. HERZOG 

(David L. Herzog)  
      
   Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer 
(Principal Financial Officer)  

/s/ JOSEPH D. COOK 

(Joseph D. Cook)  
      
   Vice President and Controller 
(Principal Accounting Officer)  

/s/ W. DON CORNWELL 

(W. Don Cornwell)  
      
   Director  

/s/ JOHN H. FITZPATRICK 

(John H. Fitzpatrick)  
      
   Director  

/s/ LAURETTE T. KOELLNER 

(Laurette T. Koellner)  
      
   Director  

AIG 2011 Form 10-K            373  

Table of Contents   

   American International Group, Inc.  

Signature

Title

/s/ DONALD H. LAYTON 

(Donald H. Layton)  
     
  Director  

/s/ CHRISTOPHER S. LYNCH 

(Christopher S. Lynch)  
      
   Director  

/s/ ARTHUR C. MARTINEZ 

(Arthur C. Martinez)  
      
   Director  

/s/ GEORGE L. MILES, JR. 

(George L. Miles, Jr.)  
      
   Director  

/s/ HENRY S. MILLER 

(Henry S. Miller)  
      
   Director  

/s/ ROBERT S. MILLER 

(Robert S. Miller)  
      
   Director  

/s/ SUZANNE NORA JOHNSON 

(Suzanne Nora Johnson)  
      
   Director  

/s/ MORRIS W. OFFIT 

(Morris W. Offit)  
      
   Director  

/s/ RONALD A. RITTENMEYER 

(Ronald A. Rittenmeyer)  
      
   Director  

/s/ DOUGLAS M. STEENLAND 

(Douglas M. Steenland)  
      
   Director  

374            AIG 2011 Form 10-K  

Table of Contents    

   American International Group, Inc.   

EXHIBIT INDEX            

Exhibit 
Number    
     
   Description    
     
   Location    

2          
     
  Plan of acquisition, reorganization, arrangement, liquidation or succession  

(a) Agreement and Plan of Merger, dated as of May 11, 2001, among AIG, Washington Acquisition Corporation and American General Corporation  
      
   Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 2.1(i)(a) to AIG's Registration Statement on Form S-4 (File No. 333-62688).  

(b) Master Transaction Agreement, dated as of December 8, 2010, among AIG, ALICO Holdings LLC, AIA Aurora LLC, the Federal Reserve Bank of New York, the United States Department of the Treasury and the
AIG Credit Facility Trust  
      
   Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 2.1 to AIG's Current Report on Form 8-K filed with the SEC on December 8, 2010 (File No. 1-8787).  

3          
      
   Articles of incorporation and by-laws  

3(i)(a)  
      
   Restated Certificate of Incorporation of American International Group, Inc.  
      
   Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 3.2 to AIG's Current Report on Form 8-K filed with the SEC on July 13, 2011 (File No. 1-8787).  

3(i)(b)  
      
   American International Group, Inc. Certificate of Elimination of Series C Perpetual, Convertible, Participating Preferred Stock  
      
   Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 3.2 to AIG's Current Report on Form 8-K filed with the SEC on January 14, 2011 (File No. 1-8787).  

3(i)(c)  
      
   American International Group, Inc. Certificate of Elimination of Series E Fixed Rate Non-Cumulative Perpetual Preferred Stock  
      
   Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 3.3 to AIG's Current Report on Form 8-K filed with the SEC on January 14, 2011 (File No. 1-8787).  

3(i)(d)  
      
   American International Group, Inc. Certificate of Elimination of Series F Fixed Rate Non-Cumulative Perpetual Preferred Stock  
      
   Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 3.4 to AIG's Current Report on Form 8-K filed with the SEC on January 14, 2011 (File No. 1-8787).  

3(i)(e)  
      
   American International Group, Inc. Certificate of Elimination of Series G Cumulative Mandatory Convertible Preferred Stock  
      
   Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 3.1 to AIG's Current Report on Form 8-K filed with the SEC on July 13, 2011 (File No. 1-8787).  

3(ii)(a)  
      
   AIG By-laws, amended August 10, 2009  
      
   Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 3(ii) to AIG's Current Report on Form 8-K filed with the SEC on August 14, 2009 (File No. 1-8787).  

4          
      
   Instruments defining the rights of security holders, including indentures  
      
   Certain instruments defining the rights of holders of long-term debt securities of AIG and its subsidiaries are omitted pursuant to Item 601(b)(4)(iii) of Regulation S-K. AIG hereby undertakes to furnish to
the Commission, upon request, copies of any such instruments.  

(1) Credit Agreement, dated as of September 22, 2008, between AIG and Federal Reserve Bank of New York  
      
   Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 99.1 to AIG's Current Report on Form 8-K filed with the SEC on September 26, 2008 (File No. 1-8787).  

(2) Amendment No. 2, dated as of November 9, 2008, to the Credit Agreement dated as of September 22, 2008 between AIG and Federal Reserve Bank of New York  
      
   Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.4 to AIG's Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the quarter ended September 30, 2008 (File No. 1-8787).  

AIG 2011 Form 10-K            375  

Table of Contents   

   American International Group, Inc.  

376            AIG 2011 Form 10-K  

Table of Contents   

   American International Group, Inc.  

AIG 2011 Form 10-K            377  

Table of Contents   

   American International Group, Inc.  

378            AIG 2011 Form 10-K  

Table of Contents   

   American International Group, Inc.  

AIG 2011 Form 10-K            379  

Table of Contents   

   American International Group, Inc.  

380            AIG 2011 Form 10-K  

Table of Contents   

   American International Group, Inc.  

AIG 2011 Form 10-K            381  

Table of Contents   

   American International Group, Inc.  

Exhibit 
Number    
     
   Description    
     
   Location    

(69) Fourth Amended and Restated Limited Liability Company Agreement of AIA Aurora LLC, dated as of December 1, 2009, among AIG, American International Reinsurance Company, Limited and the Federal Reserve Bank
of New York  
     
  Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.1 to AIG's Current Report on Form 8-K filed with the SEC on December 1, 2009 (File No. 1-8787).  

(70) Second Amended and Restated Limited Liability Company Agreement of ALICO Holdings LLC, dated as of December 1, 2009, between AIG and the Federal Reserve Bank of New York  
      
   Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.2 to AIG's Current Report on Form 8-K filed with the SEC on December 1, 2009 (File No. 1-8787).  

(71) Master Investment and Credit Agreement, dated as of November 25, 2008, among Maiden Lane III LLC, the Federal Reserve Bank of New York, AIG and the Bank of New York Mellon  
      
   Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.1 to AIG's Current Report on Form 8-K filed with the SEC on December 2, 2008 (File No. 1-8787).  

(72) Asset Purchase Agreement, dated as of December 12, 2008, among the Sellers party thereto, AIF Securities Lending Corp., AIG, Maiden Lane II LLC and the Federal Reserve Bank of New York  
      
   Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.1 to AIG's Current Report on Form 8-K filed with the SEC on December 15, 2008 (File No. 1-8787).  

(73) AIG Credit Facility Trust Agreement, dated as of January 16, 2009, among the Federal Reserve Bank of New York and Jill M. Considine, Chester B. Feldberg and Douglas L. Foshee, as Trustees  
      
   Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.1 to AIG's Current Report on Form 8-K filed with the SEC on January 23, 2009 (File No. 1-8787).  

(74) Aircraft Facility Agreement, dated as of January 19, 1999, among International Lease Finance Corporation, Halifax PLC and the other banks listed therein  
      
   Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.3 to International Lease Finance Corporation's Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 1998 (File No. 000-11350).  

(75) Aircraft Facility Agreement, dated as of May 18, 2004, among Whitney Leasing Limited, as borrower, International Lease Finance Corporation, as guarantor, the Bank of Scotland and the other banks listed
therein  
      
   Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10 to International Lease Finance Corporation's Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the quarter ended June 30, 2004 (File No. 001-31616).  

(76) Form of letter announcing Special Cash Retention awards to executive officers*  
      
   Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10(101) to Amendment No. 1 to AIG's Annual Report for the year ended December 31, 2008 on Form 10-K/A filed with the SEC on April 30, 2009 (File
No. 1-8787).  

(77) Form of letter agreement with certain executive officers regarding Special Cash Retention awards*  
      
   Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10(102) to Amendment No. 1 to AIG's Annual Report for the year ended December 31, 2008 on Form 10-K/A filed with the SEC on April 30, 2009 (File
No. 1-8787).  

(78) Form of letter agreement with certain directors regarding deferred fees for 2009*  
      
   Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10(103) to Amendment No. 1 to AIG's Annual Report for the year ended December 31, 2008 on Form 10-K/A filed with the SEC on April 30, 2009 (File
No. 1-8787).  

(79) Final Determination, dated December 21, 2009, from the Office of the Special Master for TARP Executive Compensation to AIG*  
      
   Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.1 to AIG's Current Report on Form 8-K filed with the SEC on December 31, 2009 (File No. 1-8787).  

382            AIG 2011 Form 10-K  

Table of Contents   

   American International Group, Inc.  

AIG 2011 Form 10-K            383  

Table of Contents   

   American International Group, Inc.  

384            AIG 2011 Form 10-K  

Table of Contents   

   American International Group, Inc.  

Exhibit 
Number    
     
   Description    
     
   Location    

(108) Determination Memorandum, dated April 1, 2011, from the Office of the Special Master for TARP Executive Compensation to AIG*  
     
  Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.1 to AIG's Current Report on Form 8-K filed with the SEC on April 1, 2011 (File No. 1-8787).  

(109) Determination Memorandum, dated April 8, 2011, from the Office of the Special Master for TARP Executive Compensation to AIG*  
      
   Filed herewith.  

(110) Supplemental Determination Memorandum, dated October 21, 2011, from the Office of the Special Master for TARP Executive Compensation to AIG*  
      
   Filed herewith.  

(111) Supplemental Determination Memorandum, dated August 19, 2011, from the Office of the Special Master for TARP Executive Compensation to AIG*  
      
   Filed herewith.  

(112) Master Transaction Agreement, dated as of April 19, 2011, by and among American Home Assurance Company, Chartis Casualty Company (f/k/a American International South Insurance Company), Chartis Property
Casualty Company (f/k/a AIG Casualty Company), Commerce and Industry Insurance Company, Granite State Insurance Company, Illinois National Insurance Co., National Union Fire Insurance Company of Pittsburgh, Pa., New Hampshire Insurance Company,
The Insurance Company of the State of Pennsylvania, Chartis Select Insurance Company (f/k/a AIG Excess Liability Insurance Company Ltd.), Chartis Specialty Insurance Company (f/k/a American International Specialty Lines Insurance Company),
Landmark Insurance Company, Lexington Insurance Company, AIU Insurance Company, American International Reinsurance Company, Ltd. and American Home Assurance Company, National Union Fire Insurance Company of Pittsburgh, Pa., New Hampshire
Insurance Company and Chartis Overseas Limited acting as members of the Chartis Overseas Association as respects business written or assumed by or from affiliated companies of Chartis Inc. (collectively, the Reinsureds), Eaglestone Reinsurance
Company and National Indemnity Company  
      
   Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.6 to AIG's Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the quarter ended March 31, 2011 (File No. 1-8787).  

(113) Unconditional Capital Maintenance Agreement, dated as of March 30, 2011, between American International Group, Inc. and American General Assurance Company  
      
   Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.7 to AIG's Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the quarter ended March 31, 2011 (File No. 1-8787).  

(114) Unconditional Capital Maintenance Agreement, dated as of March 30, 2011, between American International Group, Inc. and American General Life Insurance Company of Delaware  
      
   Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.8 to AIG's Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the quarter ended March 31, 2011 (File No. 1-8787).  

(115) Unconditional Capital Maintenance Agreement, dated as of March 30, 2011, between American International Group, Inc. and American General Life Insurance Company  
      
   Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.9 to AIG's Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the quarter ended March 31, 2011 (File No. 1-8787).  

AIG 2011 Form 10-K            385  

Table of Contents   

   American International Group, Inc.  

Exhibit 
Number    
     
   Description    
     
   Location    

(116) Unconditional Capital Maintenance Agreement, dated as of March 30, 2011, between American International Group, Inc. and American General Life and Accident Insurance Company  
     
  Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.10 to AIG's Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the quarter ended March 31, 2011 (File No. 1-8787).  

(117) Unconditional Capital Maintenance Agreement, dated as of March 30, 2011, between American International Group, Inc. and The United States Life Insurance Company in the City of New York  
      
   Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.11 to AIG's Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the quarter ended March 31, 2011 (File No. 1-8787).  

(118) Unconditional Capital Maintenance Agreement, dated as of February 17, 2012, among American International Group, Inc., Chartis Inc., AIU Insurance Company, American Home Assurance Company,
Chartis Casualty Company, Chartis Property Casualty Company, Chartis Specialty Insurance Company, Commerce and Industry Insurance Company, Granite State Insurance Company, Illinois National Insurance Co., Lexington Insurance Company, National
Union Fire Insurance Company of Pittsburgh, Pa., New Hampshire Insurance Company and The Insurance Company of the State of Pennsylvania  
      
   Filed herewith.  

(119) Unconditional Capital Maintenance Agreement, dated as of March 15, 2011, between American International Group, Inc. and AGC Life Insurance Company  
      
   Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.26 to AIG's Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the quarter ended March 31, 2011 (File No. 1-8787).  

(120) Unconditional Capital Maintenance Agreement, dated as of March 30, 2011, between American International Group, Inc. and SunAmerica Annuity and Life Assurance Company  
      
   Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.28 to AIG's Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the quarter ended March 31, 2011 (File No. 1-8787).  

(121) Unconditional Capital Maintenance Agreement, dated as of March 30, 2011, between American International Group, Inc. and SunAmerica Life Insurance Company  
      
   Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.29 to AIG's Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the quarter ended March 31, 2011 (File No. 1-8787).  

(122) Unconditional Capital Maintenance Agreement, dated as of March 30, 2011, between American International Group, Inc. and The Variable Annuity Life Insurance Company  
      
   Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.30 to AIG's Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the quarter ended March 31, 2011 (File No. 1-8787).  

(123) Unconditional Capital Maintenance Agreement, dated as of March 30, 2011, between American International Group, Inc. and Western National Life Insurance Company  
      
   Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.31 to AIG's Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the quarter ended March 31, 2011 (File No. 1-8787).  

11  
      
   Statement re: computation of per share earnings  
      
   Included in Note 17 to Consolidated Financial Statements.  

12  
      
   Computation of Ratios of Earnings to Fixed Charges  
      
   Filed herewith.  

386            AIG 2011 Form 10-K  

Table of Contents   

   American International Group, Inc.  

Exhibit 
Number    
     
   Description    
     
   Location    

21  
     
  Subsidiaries of Registrant  
     
  Filed herewith.  

23  
      
   Consent of PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP  
      
   Filed herewith.  

24  
      
   Powers of attorney  
      
   Included on signature page and filed herewith.  

31  
      
   Rule 13a-14(a)/15d-14(a) Certifications**  
      
   Filed herewith.  

32  
      
   Section 1350 Certifications**  
      
   Filed herewith.  

99.02  
      
   Securities Registered pursuant to Section 12(b) of the Act  
      
   Filed herewith.  

101  
      
   Interactive data files pursuant to Rule 405 of Regulation S-T: (i) the Consolidated Balance Sheet as of December 31, 2011 and December 31, 2010, (ii) the Consolidated Statement of
Operations for the three years ended December 31, 2011, (iii) the Consolidated Statement of Shareholders' Equity for the three years ended December 31, 2011, (iv) the Consolidated Statement of Cash Flows for the three years ended
December 31, 2011, (v) the Consolidated Statement of Comprehensive Income (Loss) for the three years ended December 31, 2011 and (vi) the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements.***  
      
   Filed herewith.  

*       This exhibit is a management contract or a compensatory plan or arrangement.
         **       This information is furnished and not filed for purposes of Sections 11 and 12 of the Securities Act of 1933 and Section 18 of the Securities
and Exchange Act of 1934.   
       ***      As provided in Rule 406T of Regulation S-T, this information is furnished and not filed for purposes of
Sections 11 and 12 of the Securities Act of 1933 and Section 18 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934.    

AIG 2011 Form 10-K            387  

Table of Contents    

   American International Group, Inc.   

Summary of Investments   Other than Investments in Related Parties          

Schedule I            

*       Original cost of equity securities and fixed maturities is reduced by other-than-temporary impairment charges, and, as to fixed
maturity securities, reduced by repayments and adjusted for amortization of premiums or accretion of discounts.    

388            AIG 2011 Form 10-K  

Table of Contents    

   American International Group, Inc.   

Condensed Financial Information of Registrant   Balance Sheet   Parent Company Only          

Schedule II            

*       Eliminated in consolidation.      

   See Accompanying Notes to Condensed Financial Information of Registrant.     

  AIG 2011 Form 10-K            389  

Table of Contents    

   American International Group, Inc.   

Condensed Financial Information of Registrant      (Continued)     Statement of Income (Loss)   Parent Company Only     

Schedule II            

*       Eliminated in consolidation.      

   See Accompanying Notes to Condensed Financial Information of Registrant.   

390            AIG 2011 Form 10-K  

Table of Contents    

   American International Group, Inc.   

Condensed Financial Information of Registrant     (Continued)       Statement of Cash Flows   Parent Company Only          

Schedule II            

Supplementary disclosure of cash flow information:   

See Accompanying Notes to Condensed Financial Information of Registrant.   

  AIG 2011 Form 10-K            391  

Table of Contents    

   American International Group, Inc.   

Notes To Condensed Financial Information of Registrant          

      American International Group, Inc.'s (the Registrant) investments in consolidated subsidiaries are stated at
cost plus equity in undistributed income of consolidated subsidiaries. The accompanying condensed financial statements of the Registrant should be read in conjunction with the consolidated financial
statements and notes thereto of American International Group, Inc. and subsidiaries included in the Registrant's 2011 Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended
December 31, 2011 (2011 Annual Report on Form 10-K) filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission on February 23, 2012.   

The
Registrant includes in its statement of income (loss) dividends from its subsidiaries and equity in undistributed income (loss) of consolidated subsidiaries, which represents the net
income (loss) of each of its wholly-owned subsidiaries.   

      On
December 1, 2009, the Registrant and the Federal Reserve Bank of New York (FRBNY) completed two transactions that reduced the outstanding balance and the maximum amount of
credit available under the FRBNY Credit Facility by $25 billion. In connection with one of those transactions, the Registrant assigned $16 billion of its obligation under the FRBNY
Credit Agreement to a subsidiary. The Registrant subsequently settled its obligation to the subsidiary with a $15.5 billion non-cash dividend from the subsidiary. The difference was
recognized over the remaining term of the FRBNY Credit Agreement as a reduction to interest expense. The remaining difference was derecognized by AIG through earnings due to the repayment in January
2011 of all amounts owed under, and the termination of, the FRBNY Credit Facility.   

      Certain
prior period amounts have been reclassified to conform to the current period presentation.   

      The
five-year debt maturity schedule is incorporated by reference from Note 15 to Consolidated Financial Statements.   

      The
Registrant files a consolidated federal income tax return with certain subsidiaries and acts as an agent for the consolidated tax group when making payments to the Internal
Revenue Service. The Registrant and its subsidiaries have adopted, pursuant to a written agreement, a method of allocating consolidated Federal income taxes. Amounts allocated to the subsidiaries
under the written agreement are included in Due to Affiliates in the accompanying Condensed Balance Sheets.   

      Income
taxes in the accompanying Condensed Balance Sheets are comprised of the Registrant's current and deferred tax assets, the consolidated group's current income tax receivable,
deferred taxes related to tax attribute carryforwards of AIG's U.S. consolidated income tax group and a valuation allowance to reduce the consolidated deferred tax asset to an amount more likely than
not to be realized. See Note 22 to the Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information.   

The
consolidated U.S. deferred tax asset for net operating loss, capital loss and tax credit carryforwards and valuation allowance are recorded by the Parent Company, which files the
consolidated U.S. Federal income tax return, and are not allocated to its subsidiaries. Generally, as, and if, the consolidated net operating losses and other tax attribute carryforwards are utilized,
the intercompany tax balance will be settled with the subsidiaries.   

  392            AIG 2011 Form 10-K  

Table of Contents    

   American International Group, Inc.   

Supplementary Insurance Information          

Schedule III     

   At December 31, 2011, 2010 and 2009 and for the years then ended   

(a)      Liability for unpaid claims and claims adjustment expense with respect to the General Insurance operations are net of discounts of
$3.18 billion, $3.22 billion and $2.66 billion at December 31, 2011, 2010 and 2009, respectively.   
       (b)      Reflected in insurance balances payable in the accompanying Consolidated Balance Sheet.    

AIG 2011 Form 10-K            393  

Table of Contents    

   American International Group, Inc.   

Reinsurance          

Schedule IV     

At December 31, 2011, 2010 and 2009 and for the years then ended            

(a)       Excludes long-duration insurance in force of $399.4 billion and $157.8 billion related to held-for-sale
entities at December 31, 2010 and 2009, respectively.   
       (b)      Includes accident and health premiums of $1.57 billion and $1.73 billion in 2010 and 2009,
respectively.    

394            AIG 2011 Form 10-K  

Table of Contents    

   American International Group, Inc.   

Valuation and Qualifying Accounts          

Schedule V     

   For the years ended December 31, 2011, 2010 and 2009   

*      Includes recoveries of amounts previously charged off and reclassifications to/from other accounts.    
  AIG 2011 Form 10-K            395  

<EX-10.(109)>
 2
 a2207458zex-10_109.htm
 EX-10.(109)

Exhibit 10(109)   

April 8, 2011  
     
  Jeffrey J. Hurd, Esq.   Senior Vice President    
  Human Resources and Communications  American International Group, Inc.  180 Maiden Lane  22  nd   Floor  New York, NY 10038-4925  
     
    Re:                      Proposed Compensation Structures for Certain Executive Officers         and Most Highly Compensated Employees ( Covered Employees 26   100 )    
     
  Dear Mr. Hurd:  
     
  Pursuant to the Department of the Treasury s Interim Final Rule on TARP Standards for Compensation and Corporate Governance (the  Rule ),(1) the Office of the Special Master has completed its review of the 2011 compensation submission by American International Group, Inc. ( AIG  or the  Company ), on behalf of employees who are either executive officers of AIG or one of AIG s 100 most highly compensated employees, excluding those employees subject to Section 30.10 of the Rule ( Covered Employees 26   100  or  Covered Employees ).  
     
  The Office of the Special Master s compensation reviews for Covered Employees 26   100 differ from the reviews of AIG s  top 25  employees, which addressed individual  amounts payable  to those employees, 31 C.F.R.   30.16(a)(3)(i). For Covered Employees 26   100, the Rule does not require individual payment determinations; instead, the Office of the Special Master must determine only whether the proposed compensation structures  will or may result in payments that are inconsistent with the purposes of Section 111 of EESA or TARP, or are otherwise contrary to the public interest  (as applied to Covered Employees 26   100 of AIG, the  public interest standard ).   Id .   30.16(a)(3)(ii).  
     
  On December 11, 2009, and April 16, 2010, the Office of the Special Master issued determinations relating to compensation structures for AIG s 2009 and 2010 Covered Employees 26  100, respectively (the  Prior Determinations ).  The Prior Determinations were informed by a number of considerations, including each of the six principles (the  principles ) articulated in the Rule: avoid incentives to take excessive risk, maximize the company s ability to repay the taxpayer, appropriately allocate the components of compensation, use performance-based compensation, employ pay structures and amounts that are consistent with those at comparable entities, and base pay on the employee s  

(1)       The Interim Final Rule and all determination letters issued by the Office of the Special Master are available at www.financialstability.gov (click on  About Financial Stability , then click on  Plan , then scroll down to the second-to-last link and click on  Executive Compensation Guidance ).  
     
  1    

contribution to the value of the TARP recipient enterprise.   Id .   30.16(b)(1).  The Office of the Special Master has concluded that these principles must continue to apply in 2011.  
     
  In order to apply the principles and ensure that the compensation structures for AIG s Covered Employees 26-100 satisfy the public interest standard, the Office of the Special Master has developed certain terms and conditions relating to the components and the allocation of compensation for Covered Employees that must be satisfied.  These terms and conditions emphasize allocating significant portions of compensation to long-term structures tied to AIG s overall value, using structures that are performance-based and easily understood by shareholders, and protecting the Company s ability to remain a competitive enterprise and ultimately repay the taxpayers.  
     
  The Office of the Special Master has determined that compensation structures that satisfy the terms and conditions described in   Annex A   are consistent with the public interest standard. AIG s proposed compensation structures, with minor modifications, are consistent with these terms and conditions, which generally require that:  
     
             Compensation may be provided in three primary components: cash salary, stock salary, and incentive compensation.  The amounts and conditions of the components for each Covered Employee will be determined by AIG s compensation committee.  
     
             A significant portion of compensation must be performance-based. Fixed compensation must be limited to 40% of total direct compensation payable and consist only of cash salaries and stock salaries at levels sufficient to attract and retain employees and provide a reasonable level of liquidity.  Cash salaries should not exceed $500,000 per year, except in exceptional cases for good cause shown, as certified by the Company s independent compensation committee.  
     
             Compensation must emphasize long-term results. Payment and transferability of at least 50% of any incentive payment to a Covered Employee must be deferred for at least three years. In addition, at least 50% of all incentives must be in the form of equity in the Company.  Finally, at least 50% of all cash incentive awards must be deferred for a minimum period of one year.  
     
             Incentive payments may be made if and only if the payments are appropriate in light of AIG s overall circumstances and the particular Covered Employee achieves objective performance metrics.  The total value of all incentive compensation payments cannot exceed a specified percentage of the company s eligible earnings, to be determined by the compensation committee. Incentive payments must be subject to  clawback  if the performance assessment resulting in the compensation is later discovered to be inaccurate.  
     
  In addition, compensation structures for Covered Employees 26   100 continue to be subject to the additional limitations on perquisites, severance benefits, hedging transactions, tax  gross-ups  and supplemental executive retirement plans described in   Annex A  .  
     
  The Office of the Special Master s determinations are limited to the compensation structures described in   Annex A  , and shall not be relied upon with respect to any other employee. The determinations have relied upon, and are qualified in their entirety by, the accuracy of the materials submitted by AIG to the Office of the Special Master, and the absence of any material misstatement or omission in such materials.  Pursuant to the Rule, AIG may, within 30 days of the date hereof, request in writing that the Office of the Special Master reconsider the determinations set forth in   Annex     A   .   If the  
     
  2    

Company does not request reconsideration within 30 days, these initial determinations will be treated as final determinations.    I d.      30.16(c)(l).  

Very   truly yours,           

/s/   Patricia Geoghegan           

Patricia   Geoghegan           

Office   of the Special Master           

for   TARP Executive Compensation           

Enclosures       

cc:       
 
  Mitchell   D. Schultz       

Jacqueline   Aguanno       

Marc   R. Trevino, Esq.       

3    

ANNEX A  APPROVED 2011 COMPENSATION STRUCTURES   
     
  This Annex sets forth terms and conditions for the 2011 compensation structures for AIG s 2011 Covered Employees 26   100.  For the avoidance of doubt, if the compensation structure for a Covered Employee fits within the $500,000  safe harbor  exemption set forth in Section 30.16(a)(3)(ii) of the Rule, the Office of the Special Master s approval is not required for that employee s compensation structure and the terms and conditions specified below do not apply.  Capitalized terms used in this Annex have the meaning given to them in the preceding letter.  To the extent that AIG s proposed structures do not satisfy the principles and these terms and conditions, AIG must make such modifications as are necessary to comply with such principles and terms and conditions.  
     
   1.                     Primary Components of Compensation   
     
               Cash salary    .  Covered Employees should not receive cash salaries in excess of $500,000, other than in exceptional circumstances for good cause shown. Any such exceptions must be individually certified to the Office of the Special Master by AIG s compensation committee, which is composed solely of independent directors.  
     
               Stock salary    .  Stock salary must be determined as a dollar amount through the date salary is earned, be accrued at the same time or times as the salary would otherwise be paid in cash, and vest immediately upon grant, with the number of shares or units based on the fair market value on the date of grant.  Whether a grant or payment that is labeled stock salary is salary or a bonus for purposes of the Rule is determined based on all the facts and circumstances.  
     
               Incentive compensation    .  Under any incentive compensation structure, payments to a Covered Employee must be conditioned upon achievement of objective performance criteria (other than continued service), with such achievement to be assessed and certified by the compensation committee. Performance criteria must be developed by the compensation committee and may be reviewed by the Office of the Special Master.  The aggregate amount of incentives paid to Covered Employees for performance achieved only in 2011 may not exceed a specified percentage of AIG s eligible earnings.  The amount and calculation of such eligible earnings will be determined by the compensation committee and may be reviewed by the Office of the Special Master.  
     
   2.                     Allocation Rules   
     
               Application of allocation rules    .  The allocation rules apply to each Covered Employee s 2011  total direct compensation payable,  which is equal to the sum of the amounts potentially payable to a Covered Employee (1) in 2011cash salary, (2) in 2011 stock salary, or (3) under 2011 incentive plans.  For purposes of these determinations, 2011 incentive plans are plans for which incentives are earned (a) solely with respect to 2011, and (b) under a multi-year incentive plan established in 2011.  Compliance with the allocation rules is to be assessed based on a Covered Employee s total direct compensation payable as designed and established in 2011, assuming that the target level of achievement under each incentive plan is reached.  
     
               Cash Salary and Stock Salary allocation    .  Compensation payable as cash salary and stock salary may constitute no more than 40% of the total direct compensation payable to each Covered Employee in 2011.  
     
               Incentive allocation    .  A minimum of 60% of the total direct compensation payable to each Covered Employee in 2011 must be allocated to performance-based incentive awards assuming that the target  
     
  A1    

level of achievement is reached.  No payment or equity award under a 2011 incentive plan may be made prior to the conclusion of the applicable performance period.  
     
               Long-term allocation     .       Payment and transferability of least 50% of all performance- based incentive awards must be deferred for at least a three-year period. Pro rata release of such amounts is permitted, allowing two-thirds of such amount to become payable and transferable not earlier than the second anniversary of the date of the award and the last third of such amount to become payable and transferable on the third anniversary of the award.  In addition, at least 50% of all performance-based incentive awards payable in the form of cash may not be paid prior to the first anniversary of grant.  
     
               Equity allocation     .       At least 50% of all performance-based incentive awards must be delivered in the form of equity in the Company.  
     
               Satisfying incentive allocations     .       The aggregate 2011 performance-based incentives actually paid or awarded to each Covered Employee must satisfy the above long-term and equity allocation requirements.  If several incentive plans are in existence, this can be achieved either (1) by ensuring that the aggregate cash paid and equity awarded to a Covered Employee pursuant to each incentive plan separately satisfies the long-term and equity allocation requirements, or (2) by having one incentive compensation target package that complies with the allocation requirements and giving each Covered Employee a  scorecard  consisting of multiple goals; achievement against those goals would be evaluated resulting in an overall score, which would determine the percentage of the target that the Covered Employee had earned.  
     
   3.                     Additional Terms and Conditions   
     
               Stock compensation generally    .  For purposes of these determinations,  stock  compensation includes AIG common stock or common stock units.(2)  Notwithstanding the transferability restrictions otherwise applicable to any stock compensation, (1) an amount of stock sufficient to cover an employee s tax withholding obligations may become immediately transferable to the extent necessary to satisfy the employee s obligations, and (2) to the extent permitted by the Rule, stock may become immediately transferable upon an employee s death or separation from service resulting from disability, as defined in the Company s broad-based long-term disability plan.  
     
               Clawbacks and hedging    .  Any incentive payment must be subject to  clawback  if the payment or the amount thereof was based on materially inaccurate financial statements (which term includes, but is not limited to, statements of earnings, revenues, or gains) or any other materially inaccurate performance metric criteria, or if the Covered Employee is terminated due to misconduct that occurred during the period the incentive was earned.  In addition, the compensation structure for each Covered Employee must prohibit the employee from engaging in any hedging, derivative or similar transaction with respect to Company stock that would undermine the long-term performance incentives created by the compensation structures set forth in this Annex.  

(2)   In the determination letter dated April 16, 2010, the Office of the Special Master approved AIG stock compensation payable in the form of long-term performance units, which reflected the value of AIG common stock and  hybrid  securities.  By their terms, such long-term performance units would be converted into common stock 90 days after the date on which at least 75% of the preferred securities in AIG held by Treasury were converted into common stock.  On January 14, 2011, Treasury converted all its preferred securities in AIG into common stock and, as a result, the conversion of the hybrid securities into common stock is scheduled to occur on April 14, 2011. In light of this scheduled conversion, the Office of the Special Master has approved AIG s request to pay stock compensation in 2011 in the form of common stock or common stock units, rather than in the form of long-term performance units.  
     
  A2    

Employees entering the  top 25     .  If AIG reasonably concludes that a Covered Employee may become one of the  top 25  employees in 2012, the compensation structure for that Covered Employee will be subject to the following additional terms and conditions to assure compliance with pertinent statutory and regulatory requirements.  Any payment under a 2009, 2010, or 2011 incentive plan that would be payable to the Covered Employee in cash in the first quarter of 2012 consistent with the terms of this Annex, or any previous Annex relating to 2009 or 2010, may be paid on or before December 31, 2011.  In addition, notwithstanding the other requirements of the related Annex, any incentive compensation for performance in 2009, 2010, or 2011 may be paid to the Covered Employee in the form of AIG common stock (but not stock units) that vests and is delivered on or before December 31, 2011, provided that the transferability of such stock shall be consistent with the structural principles of the related Annex.  Finally, notwithstanding the other requirements of this Annex, up to one-third of the Covered Employee s  annual compensation  for 2011 may be paid in the form of  long-term restricted stock,  as those terms are defined in the Rule.  For the avoidance of doubt, all such payments continue to be subject to the applicable provisions in the related Annex regarding clawbacks and hedging.  
     
               Severance    .  No 2011 compensation structure may establish the right to a  golden parachute  payment (as defined in the Rule) or permit an increase in the amount of such a payment under an already-existing arrangement.  
     
   4.                     Other Components of Compensation   
     
               Tax gross-ups    .  AIG is prohibited from providing (formally or informally) tax gross-ups to any of the Covered Employees, in the same manner as the gross-up prohibition applies to  top 25  employees under the Rule.  
     
               Other compensation and perquisites    .  No more than $25,000 in total other compensation and perquisites, as defined by pertinent SEC regulations, may be provided to any Covered Employee, absent exceptional circumstances for good cause shown.  Payments to Covered Employees under expatriate arrangements, not to exceed $350,000 per employee (excluding  tax equalization agreements  as defined in the Rule), are excluded from the limitation in the foregoing sentence.  
     
               Supplemental executive retirement plans and non-qualified deferred compensation plans    .  No amounts may be accrued under supplemental executive retirement plans, and no Company contributions may be made to other  non-qualified deferred compensation  plans, as defined by pertinent SEC regulations, for any Covered Employee for 2011.  For the avoidance of doubt, the foregoing limitation does not (1) apply to employee-funded elective deferral arrangements, or (2) preclude continuing recognition of age and service credit for Company employees for the purpose of vesting in previously accrued benefits under any plans referred to in this paragraph.  
     
               Qualified plans    .  For the avoidance of doubt, the Office of the Special Master has determined that participation by the Covered Employees in broad-based, tax-qualified retirement and health and welfare plans is consistent with the public interest standard, and amounts contributed to or payable under such plans are not counted against the $25,000 limit on other compensation and perquisites.  
     
  A3    

</EX-10.(109)>

<EX-10.(110)>
 3
 a2207458zex-10_110.htm
 EX-10.(110)

Exhibit 10(110)   

October 21, 2011  
     
  Jeffrey J. Hurd, Esq.   Senior Vice President    
  Human Resources and Communications  American International Group, Inc.  180 Maiden Lane  22  nd   Floor  New York, NY 10038-4925  
     
    Re:                                         Compensation Payments and Structure for AIG  Top 25  Employee    
     
  Dear Mr. Hurd:  
     
  Pursuant to the Department of the Treasury s Interim Final Rule on TARP Standards for Compensation and Corporate Governance (the  Rule ),(1) on April 1, 2011, the Office of the Special Master issued a determination letter (the  2011 Determination Letter ) to American International Group, Inc. ( AIG ), with respect to 2011 compensation payments and structures for AIG s  top 25  executive officers and most highly compensated employees. 31 C.F.R.   30.16(a)(3)(i).  
     
  AIG requested a change in the compensation of an employee who has received a significant promotion that will substantially increase the employee s responsibilities.  The total direct compensation that AIG has proposed for this employee is reasonable relative to the total direct compensation paid to persons in similar positions or roles at similar entities.  The change would increase the stock salary rate and target long-term restricted stock award, but the cash salary rate would remain unchanged.  In light of the particular facts as communicated by AIG with respect to such employee s promotion and role at AIG, and as previously discussed with you, the Office of the Special Master has approved this request.  Accordingly, Exhibit I to the 2011 Determination Letter is hereby amended as follows:  

(1)  The Interim Final Rule and all determination letters issued by the Office of the Special Master are available at www.financialstability.gov (click on  Executive Compensation  and follow the link to  Executive Compensation Rules and Guidance  or  Special Master Determination Letters, Fact Sheets, and Reports , as applicable).  

The approval in this letter applies only to the employee referenced above and shall not be relied upon by anyone with respect to any other facts or circumstances.  Such conclusion is limited to the authority vested in the Office of the Special Master by Section 30.16(a)(3) of the Rule, and shall not constitute, or be construed to constitute, the judgment of the Office of the Special Master or the Department of the Treasury with respect to the compliance of the proposed compensation payments or structure or any other compensation payments or structure for the subject employee with any other provision of the Rule.  Moreover, my evaluation and conclusion with respect to this employee have relied upon, and are qualified in their entirety by, the accuracy of the materials submitted by AIG to the Office of the Special Master, and the absence of any material misstatement or omission in such materials.  

Very   truly yours,           

/s/   Patricia Geoghegan           

Patricia   Geoghegan           

Office   of the Special Master           

for   TARP Executive Compensation           

cc:       
 
  Mitchell   D. Schultz       

Jacqueline   Aguanno       

Marc   R. Trevino, Esq.       

2    

</EX-10.(110)>

<EX-10.(111)>
 4
 a2207458zex-10_111.htm
 EX-10.(111)

Exhibit 10(111)   

August 19, 2011  
     
  Jeffrey J. Hurd, Esq.   Senior Vice President    
  Human Resources and Communications  American International Group, Inc.  180 Maiden Lane  22  nd   Floor  New York, NY 10038-4925  
     
    Re:                                         Compensation Payments and Structure for AIG  Top 25  Employee    
     
  Dear Mr. Hurd:  
     
  Pursuant to the Department of the Treasury s Interim Final Rule on TARP Standards for Compensation and Corporate Governance (the  Rule ),(1) on April 1, 2011, the Office of the Special Master issued a determination letter (the  2011 Determination Letter ) to American International Group, Inc. ( AIG ), with respect to 2011 compensation payments and structures for AIG s  top 25  executive officers and most highly compensated employees. 31 C.F.R.   30.16(a)(3)(i).  
     
  Following receipt of the 2011 Determination Letter, AIG requested a change in the compensation for a particular employee who has received a significant promotion that will substantially increase the employee s responsibilities.  The total direct compensation that AIG has proposed for this employee would be below the 50  th   percentile of total direct compensation paid to persons in similar positions or roles at similar entities. The cash salary and stock salary proposed would be effective as of July 1, 2011.  In light of the particular facts as communicated by AIG with respect to such employee s promotion and role at AIG, and as previously discussed with you, the Office of the Special Master has approved this request. Accordingly, Exhibit I to the 2011 Determination Letter is hereby amended as follows:  

(1)   The Interim Final Rule and all determination letters issued by the Office of the Special Master are available at www.financialstability.gov (click on  Executive Compensation  and follow the link to  Executive Compensation Rules and Guidance  or  Special Master Determination Letters, Fact Sheets, and Reports , as applicable).  

The approval in this letter applies only to the employee referenced above and shall not be relied upon by anyone with respect to any other facts or circumstances. Such conclusion is limited to the authority vested in the Office of the Special Master by Section 30.16(a)(3) of the Rule, and shall not constitute, or be construed to constitute, the judgment of the Office of the Special Master or the Department of the Treasury with respect to the compliance of the proposed compensation payments or structure or any other compensation payments or structure for the subject employee with any other provision of the Rule.  Moreover, my evaluations and conclusions with respect to this employee have relied upon, and are qualified in their entirety by, the accuracy of the materials submitted by AIG to the Office of the Special Master, and the absence of any material misstatement or omission in such materials.  

Very   truly yours,           

/s/   Patricia Geoghegan           

Patricia   Geoghegan           

Office   of the Special Master           

for   TARP Executive Compensation           

cc:       
 
  Mitchell   D. Schultz       

Jacqueline   Aguanno       

Marc   R. Trevino, Esq.       

2    

</EX-10.(111)>

<EX-10.(118)>
 5
 a2207458zex-10_118.htm
 EX-10.(118)

Exhibit 10(118)   
     
   EXECUTION COPY   
     
  UNCONDITIONAL CAPITAL MAINTENANCE AGREEMENT  
  BETWEEN  
  AMERICAN INTERNATIONAL GROUP, INC.  
  AND  
  CHARTIS INC.  
  AND  
  THE INSURANCE COMPANIES NAMED ON SCHEDULE 1  
     
  This Unconditional Capital Maintenance Agreement (this  Agreement ), is made, entered into and effective as of February 17, 2012, by and between American International Group, Inc., a corporation organized under the laws of the State of Delaware ( AIG ), Chartis Inc., a corporation organized under the laws of the State of Delaware ( Chartis ), and each of the insurance companies listed on Schedule 1 hereto (each, a  Company  and collectively, the  Fleet ).  
     
  WITNESSETH:  
     
  WHEREAS, each Company is a property-casualty insurer subject to certain capital requirements of the insurance laws and regulations of its applicable jurisdiction of incorporation set forth on Schedule 1 (the  Domiciliary State   
     
  WHEREAS, each Company is an indirect wholly owned subsidiary of each of AIG and Chartis; and  
     
  WHEREAS, AIG has an interest in unconditionally maintaining and enhancing the Fleet s financial condition (the  Fleet  for purposes of this Agreement shall be treated as one insurance company as if each Company combined its financial attributes into one entity):  
     
  NOW, THEREFORE, in consideration of the mutual promises herein contained, the parties hereto agree as follows:  
     
  1.                  Capital Contributions   .  In the event that the Fleet s Total Adjusted Capital for each of the Fleet s first and third fiscal quarters (as determined based on each Company s first and third fiscal quarterly filed statutory financial statements, respectively, subject to any adjustments or modifications thereto required by the applicable Domiciliary State s insurance department or the Fleet s independent auditors) falls below the Specified Minimum Percentage of the Fleet s projected year-end Authorized Control Level RBC (in each case as estimated by Chartis as of the end of each such first and third fiscal quarters, as the case may be, taking into account (for purposes of such estimation) facts and  

circumstances occurring after the end of such fiscal quarter but before such time as AIG would be obligated pursuant to paragraph 4 to make a contribution to Chartis), AIG shall, within the respective time periods set forth under paragraph 4, in accordance with paragraph 5 and in compliance with applicable law, provide to Chartis cash, cash equivalents, securities or other instruments that qualify (as admitted assets in the appropriate jurisdiction) for purposes of calculating the Fleet s Total Adjusted Capital, as a contribution and not as a loan, in an amount such that the Fleet s Total Adjusted Capital as of the end of each of the Fleet s second and fourth fiscal quarter, as the case may be, will be projected at year-end to be at least equal to the Specified Minimum Percentage of the Fleet s Authorized Control Level RBC.  Notwithstanding the foregoing, AIG may, at any time as it deems necessary in its sole discretion and in compliance with applicable law, make a contribution to Chartis in such amount as is required for the Fleet s Total Adjusted Capital to equal a percentage of its Authorized Control Level RBC determined to be appropriate by Chartis and AIG.  
     
  2.                  Dividends   .  In the event that the Fleet s Total Adjusted Capital (a) for each of the Fleet s first, second and third fiscal quarters (as determined based on each Company s first, second and third fiscal quarterly filed statutory financial statements, respectively, subject to any adjustments or modifications thereto required by the applicable Domiciliary State s insurance department or the Fleet s independent auditors) is in excess of the Specified Minimum Percentage of the Fleet s projected Authorized Control Level RBC (in each case as estimated by Chartis as of the end of each such first, second and third fiscal quarters, as the case may be) or (b) as of each fiscal year end (as determined based on each Company s fiscal year-end    filed statutory financial statements, together with any adjustments or modifications thereto required by the applicable Domiciliary State s insurance department or the Fleet s independent auditors) is in excess of the Specified Minimum Percentage of the Fleet s Authorized Control Level RBC (as determined based on each Company s fiscal year-end statutory financial statements),  each Company shall, within the respective time periods set forth under paragraph 4, in accordance with paragraph 5 and subject to approval by each applicable Company s board of directors as required by the laws of such Company s Domiciliary State, declare and pay dividends ratably to its equity holders in an aggregate amount equal to the  lesser  of (i) the amount (to be determined by Chartis) necessary to reduce the Fleet s projected or actual Total Adjusted Capital as of each of the end of the Fleet s fiscal quarter or fiscal year, as the case may be, to a level equal to or not materially greater than the Specified Minimum Percentage of the Fleet s Authorized Control Level RBC or (ii) the maximum amount permitted by the applicable Domiciliary State s law to be paid as an ordinary dividend  less  an amount that the Company and AIG agree is appropriate to protect the Company from exceeding such maximum amount allowed by such Domiciliary State s law as a result of potential audit adjustments or adjustments to the projections on which such dividend amount is based.  For the avoidance of doubt, this paragraph shall only require each Company to pay ordinary dividends subject to the other applicable conditions set forth in this  
     
  2    

paragraph being satisfied; under no circumstances shall any Company be required to pay any dividend which would trigger the extraordinary dividend provisions of the applicable Domiciliary State or that is otherwise prohibited by such Domiciliary State.  Notwithstanding the foregoing, this Agreement does not prohibit the payment of extraordinary dividends to reduce the Fleet s projected or actual Total Adjusted Capital to a level equal to or not materially greater than the Specified Minimum Percentage of the Fleet s Authorized Control Level RBC.  
     
  3.                  Defined Terms   .  For the avoidance of doubt, the terms  Total Adjusted Capital  and  Authorized Control Level RBC  shall have the meanings ascribed thereto under the insurance laws and regulations of the applicable Domiciliary State, or, if not defined therein, shall have the meanings ascribed thereto in the risk-based capital ( RBC ) instructions promulgated by the National Association of Insurance Commissioners ( NAIC ). The term  Specified Minimum Percentage  shall be equal to the percentage set forth on Schedule 2 attached hereto, which shall be agreed to by AIG and Chartis at least once every year beginning upon the date of the filing of each Company s 2011 Annual Statement with the applicable Domiciliary State s insurance department and following review against the capital adequacy standards and criteria ( Agency Criteria ) of each of Standard   Poor s Corp. ( S P ), Moody s Investors Service ( Moody s ) and A.M. Best Company ( A.M. Best ).  Notwithstanding the obligation of Chartis and AIG to review the Specified Minimum Percentage on an annual basis, the parties hereto agree to review and revise the Specified Minimum Percentage on a more frequent basis, if the parties agree it is appropriate, to take into account (a) any material changes after the date hereof to any Agency Criteria adopted by any of S P, Moody s or A.M. Best, on the one hand, or to the law of any applicable Domiciliary State or NAIC RBC rules or instructions, on the other hand, which causes the results under the Agency Criteria to diverge from that under the law of any applicable Domiciliary State or NAIC RBC rules or instructions, (b) any Company completes a material transaction that is treated materially differently by the Agency Criteria, on the one hand, and the NAIC RBC rules or instructions, on the other hand, or (c) any other material development or circumstance affecting the Fleet or any Company which AIG and Chartis agree merits a reevaluation of the Specified Minimum Percentage then in effect.  
     
  4.                  Timing of Capital Contributions and Dividends   .  Chartis and AIG agree that any contribution to be made under paragraph 1 will take place within the following two time periods per year, as applicable: (a) during the time beginning on the first business day after the last filing of any Company s first fiscal quarterly statutory financial statements and ending on the last business day prior to the end of the Fleet s second fiscal quarter; and (b) during the time beginning on the first business day after the last filing of any Company s third fiscal quarterly statutory financial statements and ending on the last business day prior to the end of the Fleet s fourth fiscal quarter. Notwithstanding the foregoing, in compliance with applicable law, any capital contribution provided for under paragraph 1 may be made by AIG after the close of any fiscal quarter or fiscal  
     
  3    

year of the Fleet but prior to the last filing by any Company of its statutory financial statements for such fiscal quarter or fiscal year, respectively, and contributions of this nature shall be recognized as capital contributions receivable as of the balance sheet date of the yet to be filed quarterly or annual financial statement (as the case may be), pursuant to paragraph 8 of Statement of Statutory Accounting Principles No. 72, to the extent approved by the applicable Domiciliary State.  Chartis and AIG further agree that any dividends to be made under paragraph 2 will take place as soon as practicable after the filing by each Company of the relevant fiscal quarter-end or fiscal year-end statutory financial statements or such earlier time as may be agreed by Chartis and AIG.  
     
  5.                  Funding Mechanics   .  At the time that any contribution is due under paragraph 4, AIG agrees that it will either (a) make such contribution to Chartis and Chartis shall further contribute such funds, securities or instruments to the applicable subsidiaries in furtherance of the purposes of this Agreement and in the reasonable discretion of the management of Chartis, or (b) make such contribution directly to any applicable Company without receiving any capital stock or other ownership interest in exchange therefor, subject in either case to any required regulatory approvals.  At any time any dividends are due under paragraph 4, each Company agrees that it will make such dividend to such Company s direct parent and both Chartis and such Company will use their best efforts to cause such direct parent to then dividend or otherwise provide such funds to AIG.  All contributions and dividends contemplated under this Agreement shall be approved, declared and made, as applicable, in compliance with applicable law, including, without limitation, approval by the board of directors of each applicable entity (including any applicable Company) and any prior notice or approval requirements specified under applicable rules and regulations of any applicable Domiciliary State.  
     
  6.                  AIG Policies   .  Subject to the requirements of applicable law and the approval, to the extent required, by any or all of any Company s or Chartis  senior management, relevant management committees, board of directors, and of any insurance regulator, each Company and Chartis hereby acknowledges that, in a manner consistent with past practice and any other reasonable requirements of AIG, it will comply with all financial and budgetary planning, risk mitigation, derisking or pricing, corporate governance, investment, informational and procedural requirements set forth by AIG.  
     
  7.                  No Failure to Claim   .  AIG hereby waives any failure or delay on the part of Chartis or any Company in asserting or enforcing any of its rights or in making any claims or demands hereunder.  
     
  8.                  Termination   .  Unless earlier terminated in accordance with this paragraph 8, this Agreement shall continue indefinitely.  AIG shall have the absolute right to terminate this Agreement upon thirty (30) days  prior written notice to Chartis and each applicable Company, which notice shall state the  
     
  4    

effective date of termination (the  Termination Date   provided, however , that AIG agrees not to terminate this Agreement unless (a) AIG significantly modifies the corporate structure or ownership of Chartis or any Company, or (b) AIG sells Chartis or any Company to an acquirer, in each case, (i) having a rating from at least one of S P, Moody s, A.M. Best or a substitute agency, which is a nationally recognized statistical rating organization, that is at least equal to the lower of (x) AIG s then-current rating from such agency or (y) the then-current rating of Chartis or such Company, as applicable, being restructured or sold as supported by this Agreement from such agency; or (ii) such that, immediately on the effective date of the modification of the corporate structure or sale by AIG of Chartis or such Company, Chartis  or such Company s capitalization, as applicable, is consistent with the minimum capital adequacy standards and criteria of at least one of S P, Moody s, A.M. Best or a substitute agency, which is a nationally recognized statistical rating organization, for a rating that is equal to or better than Chartis  or such Company s, as applicable, then-current rating on the date immediately preceding such modification of corporate structure or sale.  To the extent not terminated previously by AIG pursuant to the foregoing, this Agreement will terminate automatically, with respect to any particular Company, one year after the closing of any sale of such Company by AIG, and all provisions hereof will be of no further force and effect.  For the avoidance of doubt, the termination of this Agreement pursuant to this paragraph 8 shall not relieve either party of any obligation it may owe to the other party hereunder that existed prior to, and remains outstanding as of, the Termination Date.  
     
  9.                  Policyholder Rights   .  Any policyholder holding a policy issued by any Company prior to the termination of this Agreement shall have the right to demand that such Company enforce such Company s rights under paragraphs 1, 4 and 5 of this Agreement, and, if such Company fails or refuses to take timely action to enforce such rights or such Company defaults in any claim or other payment owed to any such policyholder when due, such policyholder may proceed directly against AIG to enforce such Company s rights under paragraphs 1, 4 and 5 of this Agreement;  provided, however,  that no policyholder of any Company may take any action authorized under this paragraph 9 unless and until (a) such policyholder has given AIG written notice of its intent to enforce the terms of this Agreement as provided in this paragraph 9, which notice shall specify in reasonable detail the nature of and basis for the policyholder s complaint and (b) AIG has failed to comply with this Agreement within sixty (60) days after such notice is given; and,  provided, further,  that upon termination of this Agreement in accordance with paragraph 8 hereof, the rights of any policyholder as provided for under this paragraph 9 shall terminate effective as of the Termination Date, except with respect to the obligation of AIG (if any) to make capital contributions to any Company pursuant to paragraphs 1, 4 and 5 of this Agreement solely to the extent such obligation arose prior to, and remained unsatisfied as of, the Termination Date (it being understood that upon AIG s satisfaction of all such obligations after the Termination Date, no such  
     
  5    

policyholder shall have any rights against Chartis or any Company or AIG, as the case may be, under this paragraph 9).  
     
  10.               No Indebtedness; No Policyholder Recourse Against AIG   .  This Agreement is not, and nothing herein contained and nothing done pursuant hereto by AIG shall constitute or be construed or deemed to constitute, an evidence of indebtedness or an obligation or liability of AIG as guarantor, endorser, surety or otherwise in respect of any obligation, indebtedness or liability, of any kind whatsoever, of Chartis or any Company.  This Agreement does not provide, and is not intended to be construed or deemed to provide, any policyholder of any Company with recourse to or against any of the assets of AIG.  
     
  11.               Notices   .  Any notice, instruction, request, consent, demand or other communication required or contemplated by this Agreement shall be in writing, shall be given or made or communicated by United States first class mail, addressed as follows:  

If   to AIG:           

American   International Group, Inc.           

180 Maiden   Lane           

New York,   New York 10038           

Attention:   Secretary           

If   to Chartis:           

Chartis Inc.           

175 Water   Street, 24  th   Floor           

New York, NY   10038           

Attention:   Chief Financial Officer           

with   a copy (which shall not constitute notice) to:           

Chartis U.S.   Law Department           

175 Water   Street, 18  th   Floor           

New York, NY   10038           

Attention:   Chartis U.S. General Counsel              
     
  12.               Fiscal Year   .  Each of the Companies represents that its fiscal year is the same as each other Company and covenants that it shall not change its fiscal year without the prior written consent of AIG.  
     
  13.               Entire Agreement   .  Effective upon the date of filing of each Company s 2011 Annual Statements with each applicable Domiciliary State, this Agreement shall constitute the entire agreement among the parties hereto and  
     
  6    

supersedes and replaces each agreement, dated February 25, 2011, by and between AIG, on the one hand, and each Company, on the other hand, regarding capital maintenance without the need for any action.  
     
  14.               Successors   .  The covenants, representations, warranties and agreements herein set forth shall be mutually binding upon and inure to the mutual benefit of AIG and its successors and each of Chartis and each Company and its successors.  
     
  15.               Governing Law   .  This Agreement shall be governed by and construed in accordance with the laws of New York, without giving effect to the principles of conflict of laws.  
     
  16.               Severability   .  If any provision of this Agreement shall be declared null, void or unenforceable in whole or in part by any court, arbitrator or governmental agency, said provision shall survive to the extent it is not so declared and all the other provisions of this Agreement shall remain in full force and effect unless, in each case, such declaration shall serve to deprive any of the parties hereto of the fundamental benefits of or rights under this Agreement.  
     
  17.               Entire Agreement; Amendments   .  This Agreement constitutes the entire agreement among the parties hereto with respect to the subject matter hereof and supersedes all prior and contemporaneous agreements, understandings, negotiations and discussion, whether oral or written, of the parties.  This Agreement may be amended at any time by written agreement or instrument signed by the parties hereto.  
     
  18.               Headings   .  The section headings contained in this Agreement are inserted for convenience only and shall not affect in any way the meaning or interpretation of this Agreement.  
     
  19.               Counterparts   .  This Agreement may be signed by the parties in one or more counterparts which together shall constitute one and the same agreement among the parties.  
     
  7    

IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto have caused this Agreement to be duly executed by their respective authorized officers as of the day and year first above written.  

AMERICAN   INTERNATIONAL GROUP, INC.           

By:       
 
  /s/ David L.   Herzog       

Name:       
 
  David L.   Herzog           

Title:       
 
  Chief   Financial Officer           

By:       
 
  /s/ Jeffrey   A. Welikson       

Name:       
 
  Jeffrey A.   Welikson           

Title:       
 
  Corporate   Secretary           

CHARTIS   INC.           

By:       
 
  /s/ James   Bracken       

Name:       
 
  James   Bracken           

Title:       
 
  Chief   Financial Officer and Senior Vice President           

By:       
 
  /s/ Denis M.   Butkovic       

Name:       
 
  Denis M.   Butkovic           

Title:       
 
  Assistant   Secretary           

AIU   INSURANCE COMPANY           

By:       
 
  /s/ James   Bracken       

Name:       
 
  James   Bracken           

Title:       
 
  Executive   Vice President           

By:       
 
  /s/ Denis M.   Butkovic       

Name:       
 
  Denis M.   Butkovic           

Title:       
 
  Secretary           

AMERICAN   HOME ASSURANCE COMPANY           

By:       
 
  /s/ James   Bracken       

Name:       
 
  James   Bracken           

Title:       
 
  Executive   Vice President           

By:       
 
  /s/ Denis M.   Butkovic       

Name:       
 
  Denis M.   Butkovic           

Title:       
 
  Secretary           

CHARTIS   CASUALTY COMPANY           

By:       
 
  /s/ James   Bracken       

Name:       
 
  James   Bracken           

Title:       
 
  Executive   Vice President           

By:       
 
  /s/ Denis M.   Butkovic       

Name:       
 
  Denis M.   Butkovic           

Title:       
 
  Secretary           

CHARTIS   PROPERTY CASUALTY COMPANY           

By:       
 
  /s/ James   Bracken       

Name:        
 
  James   Bracken           

Title:       
 
  Executive   Vice President           

By:       
 
  /s/ Denis M.   Butkovic       

Name:       
 
  Denis M.   Butkovic           

Title:       
 
  Secretary           

CHARTIS   SPECIALTY INSURANCE COMPANY           

By:       
 
  /s/ James   Bracken       

Name:       
 
  James   Bracken           

Title:       
 
  Executive   Vice President           

By:       
 
  /s/ Denis M.   Butkovic       

Name:       
 
  Denis M.   Butkovic           

Title:       
 
  Secretary           

COMMERCE   AND INDUSTRY INSURANCE COMPANY           

By:       
 
  /s/ James   Bracken       

Name:       
 
  James   Bracken           

Title:       
 
  Executive   Vice President           

By:       
 
  /s/ Denis M.   Butkovic       

Name:       
 
  Denis M.   Butkovic           

Title:       
 
  Secretary           

GRANITE   STATE INSURANCE COMPANY           

By:       
 
  /s/ James   Bracken       

Name:       
 
  James   Bracken           

Title:       
 
  Executive   Vice President           

By:       
 
  /s/ Denis M.   Butkovic       

Name:       
 
  Denis M.   Butkovic           

Title:       
 
  Secretary           

ILLINOIS   NATIONAL INSURANCE CO.           

By:       
 
  /s/ James   Bracken       

Name:       
 
  James   Bracken           

Title:       
 
  Executive   Vice President           

By:       
 
  /s/ Denis M.   Butkovic       

Name:       
 
  Denis M.   Butkovic           

Title:       
 
  Secretary           

LEXINGTON   INSURANCE COMPANY               

By:       
 
  /s/ James   Bracken       

Name:       
 
  James   Bracken           

Title:       
 
  Executive   Vice President           

By:       
 
  /s/ Denis M.   Butkovic       

Name:       
 
  Denis M.   Butkovic           

Title:       
 
  Secretary           

NATIONAL   UNION FIRE INSURANCE COMPANY OF PITTSBURGH, PA.           

By:       
 
  /s/ James Bracken       

Name:       
 
  James   Bracken           

Title:       
 
  Executive   Vice President           

By:       
 
  /s/ Denis M.   Butkovic       

Name:       
 
  Denis M.   Butkovic           

Title:       
 
  Secretary           

NEW   HAMPSHIRE INSURANCE COMPANY           

By:       
 
  /s/ James   Bracken       

Name:       
 
  James   Bracken           

Title:       
 
  Executive   Vice President           

By:       
 
  /s/ Denis M.   Butkovic       

Name:       
 
  Denis M.   Butkovic           

Title:       
 
  Secretary           

THE   INSURANCE COMPANY OF THE STATE OF PENNSYLVANIA           

By:       
 
  /s/ James   Bracken       

Name:       
 
  James   Bracken           

Title:       
 
  Executive   Vice President           

By:       
 
  /s/ Denis M.   Butkovic       

Name:       
 
  Denis M.   Butkovic           

Title:       
 
  Secretary           

SCHEDULE 1  

Company        

Domiciliary State            

(a)       

AIU   Insurance Company       

NY           

(b)       

American   Home Assurance Company       

NY           

(c)       

Chartis   Casualty Company       

PA           

(d)       

Chartis   Property Casualty Company       

PA           

(e)       

Chartis   Specialty Insurance Company       

IL           

(f)       

Commerce and   Industry Insurance Company       

NY           

(g)       

Granite   State Insurance Company       

PA           

(h)       

Illinois   National Insurance Co.       

IL           

(i)       

Lexington   Insurance Company       

DE           

(j)       

National   Union Fire Insurance Company of Pittsburgh, Pa.       

PA           

(k)       

New   Hampshire Insurance Company       

PA           

(l)       

The   Insurance Company of the State of Pennsylvania       

PA              

SCHEDULE 2  
     
  The Specified Minimum Percentage shall equal 350% of the Fleet s Authorized Control Level RBC.  

</EX-10.(118)>

<EX-12>
 6
 a2207458zex-12.htm
 EX-12

QuickLinks  
  -- Click here to rapidly navigate through this document 

American International Group, Inc.   

Computation of Ratios of Earnings to Fixed Charges          

    Exhibit 12     

(a)       From continuing operations, excluding undistributed earnings (loss) from equity method investments and capitalized
interest.   
       (b)      The Ratio of earnings to fixed charges excluding interest credited to policy and contract holders removes interest credited to
guaranteed investment contract (GIC) policyholders and guaranteed investment agreement (GIA) contract holders. Such interest expenses are also removed from earnings used in this calculation. GICs and
GIAs are entered into by AIG's subsidiaries. The proceeds from GICs and GIAs are invested in a diversified portfolio of securities, primarily investment grade bonds. The assets acquired yield rates
greater than the rates on the related policyholders obligation or contract, with the intent of earning a profit from the spread.    

396            AIG 2011 Form 10-K  

QuickLinks    
 
  Computation of Ratios of Earnings to Fixed Charges   

</EX-12>

<EX-21>
 7
 a2207458zex-21.htm
 EX-21

QuickLinks  
  -- Click here to rapidly navigate through this document 

American International Group, Inc.   

    Exhibit 21     

Subsidiaries of Registrant          

As of December 31, 2011    
     
   Jurisdiction 
of Incorporation 
or Organization    
     
   Percentage 
of Voting 
Securities 
held by 
Immediate 
Parent    (1)    

American International Group, Inc.  
     
  Delaware  

(2)   

AIA Aurora LLC  
     
  Delaware  

100  

AIG Capital Corporation  
     
  Delaware  

100  

AIG Consumer Finance Group, Inc.  
     
  Delaware  

100  

AIG Credit S.A.  
     
  Poland  

100  

AIG Credit Corp.  
     
  Delaware  

100  

A.I. Credit Consumer Discount Company  
     
  Pennsylvania  

100  

A.I. Credit Corp.  
     
  New Hampshire  

100  

AICCO, Inc.  
     
  Delaware  

100  

AIG Credit Corp. of Canada  
     
  Canada  

100  

AIG Equipment Finance Holdings, Inc.  
     
  Delaware  

100  

AIG Commercial Equipment Finance, Inc.  
     
  Delaware  

100  

AIG Commercial Equipment Finance Company, Canada  
     
  Canada  

100  

AIG Global Asset Management Holdings Corp.  
     
  Delaware  

100  

AIG Asset Management (Europe) Limited  
     
  United Kingdom  

100  

AIG Asset Management (Ireland) Limited  
     
  Ireland  

100  

AIG Asset Management (U.S.), LLC  
     
  Delaware  

100  

AIG Global Real Estate Investment Corp.  
     
  Delaware  

100  

AIG Securities Lending Corp.  
     
  Delaware  

100  

International Lease Finance Corporation  
     
  California  

100  

Fleet Solutions Holdings, Inc.  
     
  Delaware  

100  

AeroTurbine, Inc.  
     
  Delaware  

100  

AIG Federal Savings Bank  
     
  The United States  

100  

AIG Financial Products Corp.  
     
  Delaware  

100  

AIG-FP Matched Funding Corp.  
     
  Delaware  

100  

AIG Matched Funding Corp.  
     
  Delaware  

100  

Banque AIG S.A.  
     
  France  

90  
   (3)   

AIG Funding, Inc.  
     
  Delaware  

100  

AIG Global Services, Inc.  
     
  New Hampshire  

100  

AIG Life Insurance Company (Switzerland) Ltd.  
     
  Switzerland  

100  

AIG Markets, Inc.  
     
  Delaware  

100  

AIG Trading Group Inc.  
     
  Delaware  

100  

AIG International Inc.  
     
  Delaware  

100  

AIUH LLC  
     
  Delaware  

100  

Chartis Inc.  
     
  Delaware  

100  

Chartis Global Claims Services, Inc.  
     
  Delaware  

100  

Chartis Claims, Inc.  
     
  Delaware  

100  

Health Direct, Inc.  
     
  Delaware  

100  

Chartis Global Services, Inc.  
     
  Delaware  

100  

Chartis North America, Inc.  
     
  New York  

100  

Chartis International, LLC  
     
  Delaware  

100  

American International Reinsurance Company, Ltd.  
     
  Bermuda  

100  

Chartis Seguros Mexico, S.A. de C.V.  
     
  Mexico  

100  

AIU Insurance Company  
     
  New York  

100  

Chartis Insurance Company China Limited  
     
  China  

100  

Chartis Trinidad and Tobago Insurance Company Limited  
     
  Trinidad   Tobago  

100  

Chartis Africa Holdings, Inc.  
     
  Delaware  

100  

Chartis Kenya Insurance Company Limited  
     
  Kenya  

66.67  

AIG 2011 Form 10-K            397  

American International Group, Inc.  

As of December 31, 2011    
     
   Jurisdiction 
of Incorporation 
or Organization    
     
   Percentage of Voting 
Securities held by 
Immediate Parent (1)     

Chartis Asia Pacific Pte. Ltd.  
     
  Singapore  

100  

Chartis Singapore Insurance Pte. Ltd.  
     
  Singapore  

100  

Chartis Australia Insurance Limited  
     
  Australia  

100  

Chartis Insurance New Zealand Limited  
     
  New Zealand  

100  

Chartis Insurance (Thailand) Public Company Limited  
     
  Thailand  

99.986  

Chartis Malaysia Insurance Berhad  
     
  Malaysia  

100  

Chartis Philippines Insurance Inc.  
     
  Philippines  

100  

Chartis Taiwan Insurance Co., Ltd.  
     
  Taiwan  

100  

Chartis Vietnam Insurance Company Limited  
     
  Vietnam  

100  

PT Chartis Insurance Indonesia  
     
  Indonesia  

61.208  
   (4)   

Chartis Central Europe   CIS Insurance Holdings Corporation  
     
  Delaware  

100  

UBB-Chartis Insurance Company AD  
     
  Bulgaria  

40  

Chartis Egypt Insurance Company S.A.E.  
     
  Egypt  

95.02  

Chartis European Insurance Investments Inc.  
     
  England  

100  

Chartis Japan Holdings, LLC  
     
  Delaware  

100  

Chartis Japan Capital Company, LLC  
     
  Delaware  

100  

The Fuji Fire and Marine Insurance Company, Limited  
     
  Japan  

45.45  
   (5)   

American Fuji Fire   Marine Insurance Company  
     
  Illinois  

100  

Fuji International Insurance Company Limited  
     
  United Kingdom  

100  

Fuji Life Insurance Company Ltd.  
     
  Japan  

100  

Chartis Kazakhstan Insurance Company Joint Stock Company  
     
  Kazakhstan  

100  

Chartis Latin America Investments, LLC  
     
  Delaware  

100  

Chartis Memsa Holdings, Inc.  
     
  Delaware  

100  

CHARTIS Investment Holdings (Private) Limited  
     
  Sri Lanka  

100  

CHARTIS Insurance Limited  
     
  Sri Lanka  

100  

Chartis Iraq, Inc.  
     
  Delaware  

100  

CHARTIS Lebanon S.A.L.  
     
  Lebanon  

100  

Chartis Libya, Inc.  
     
  Delaware  

100  

Tata AIG General Insurance Company Limited  
     
  India  

26  

Chartis Pacific Rim Holdings, L.L.C.  
     
  Delaware  

100  

Chartis Far East Holdings Kabushiki Kaisha  
     
  Japan  

100  

JI Accident   Fire Insurance Company, Ltd.  
     
  Japan  

50  

Chartis Non-Life Holding Company (Japan), Inc.  
     
  Delaware  

100  

Chartis Overseas Limited  
     
  Bermuda  

100  

American International Underwriters del Ecuador S.A.  
     
  Ecuador  

100  

AIG Metropolitana Compania de Seguros y Reaseguros S.A.  
     
  Ecuador  

32.06  
   (6)   

Arabian American Insurance Company (Bahrain) E.C.  
     
  Bahrain  

100  

Chartis Chile Compania de Seguros Generales S.A.  
     
  Chile  

100  

CHARTIS Cyprus Ltd  
     
  Cyprus  

100  

Chartis Global Management Company Limited  
     
  Bermuda  

100  

La Meridional Compania Argentina de Seguros S.A.  
     
  Argentina  

95  
   (7)   

Chartis Latin America I.I.  
     
  Puerto Rico  

100  

Chartis Insurance (Guernsey) PCC Limited  
     
  Guernsey  

100  

Chartis Insurance Company-Puerto Rico  
     
  Puerto Rico  

100  

Chartis Seguros Colombia S.A.  
     
  Colombia  

96.58  
   (8)   

Chartis Insurance Hong Kong Limited  
     
  Hong Kong  

100  

Chartis Luxembourg Financing Limited  
     
  England  

100  

CHARTIS MEMSA Insurance Company Limited  
     
  United Arab Emirates  

100  

Chartis Seguros Brasil S.A.  
     
  Brazil  

100  

Chartis Seguros Guatemala, S.A.  
     
  Guatemala  

100  

398            AIG 2011 Form 10-K  

American International Group, Inc.  

As of December 31, 2011    
     
   Jurisdiction 
of Incorporation 
or Organization    
     
   Percentage of Voting 
Securities held by 
Immediate Parent (1)     

Chartis Seguros Uruguay S.A.  
     
  Uruguay  

100  

CHARTIS Sigorta A.S.  
     
  Turkey  

100  

CHARTIS Takaful-Enaya B.S.C. (c)  
     
  Bahrain  

100  

Chartis Uganda Insurance Company Limited  
     
  Uganda  

100  

Johannesburg Insurance Holdings (Proprietary) Limited  
     
  South Africa  

100  

Chartis Life South Africa Limited  
     
  South Africa  

100  

Chartis South Africa Limited  
     
  South Africa  

100  

Underwriters Adjustment Company, Inc.  
     
  Panama  

100  

Hellas Insurance Co. S.A.  
     
  Greece  

50  

Inversiones Segucasai, C.A.  
     
  Venezuela  

50  

C.A. de Seguros American International  
     
  Venezuela  

93.72  

AIG Israel Insurance Company Ltd.  
     
  Israel  

50.01  

Chartis Uzbekistan Insurance Company Joint Venture LLC  
     
  Uzbekistan  

51  

Chartis Overseas Association  
     
  Bermuda  

67  
   (9)   

Chartis Europe Holdings Limited  
     
  England  

61.78  
   (10)   

Chartis Europe Financing Limited  
     
  England  

100  

Chartis Europe Sub Holdings Limited  
     
  England  

100  

Chartis Europe Limited  
     
  England  

100  

Chartis Europe, S.A.  
     
  France  

100  

AIG Germany Holding GmbH  
     
  Germany  

100  

Chartis Romania Insurance Company S.A.  
     
  Romania  

100  

CJSC "Chartis Insurance Company"  
     
  Russia  

100  

Chartis Seguros, El Salvador, Sociedad Anonima  
     
  El Salvador  

99.99  
   (11)   

Chartis Vida, Sociedad Anonima, Seguros de Personas  
     
  El Salvador  

99.9  

Chartis Technology and Operations Management Corporation  
     
  New York  

100  

Private Joint Stock Company "Insurance Company "Chartis Ukraine"  
     
  Ukraine  

94.221  
   (12)   

Travel Guard Worldwide, Inc.  
     
  Wisconsin  

100  

AIG Travel Assist, Inc.  
     
  Delaware  

100  

Travel Guard Americas LLC  
     
  Wisconsin  

100  

Travel Guard Asia Pacific Pte. Ltd.  
     
  Singapore  

100  

Travel Guard EMEA Limited  
     
  England  

100  

AIG Travel Insurance Agency, Inc.  
     
  Texas  

100  

Livetravel, Inc.  
     
  Wisconsin  

100  

Travel Guard Group Canada, Inc.  
     
  Canada  

100  

Travel Guard Group, Inc.  
     
  Delaware  

100  

WINGS International SAS  
     
  France  

100  

Global Information Services Private Limited  
     
  India  

50  

Chartis U.S., Inc.  
     
  Delaware  

100  

American Home Assurance Company  
     
  New York  

100  

American International Realty Corp.  
     
  Delaware  

31.47  
   (13)   

Pine Street Real Estate Holdings Corp.  
     
  New Hampshire  

31.47  
   (14)   

Chartis Aerospace Insurance Services, Inc.  
     
  Georgia  

100  

Chartis Canada Holdings Inc.  
     
  Canada  

100  

Chartis Insurance Company of Canada  
     
  Canada  

100  

Chartis Insurance Agency, Inc.  
     
  New Jersey  

100  

Chartis Property Casualty Company  
     
  Pennsylvania  

100  

Commerce and Industry Insurance Company  
     
  New York  

100  

AIG Polska Towarzystwo Ubezpiecen S.A.  
     
  Poland  

99.25  

Eaglestone Reinsurance Company  
     
  New Jersey  

100  

National Union Fire Insurance Company of Pittsburgh, Pa.  
     
  Pennsylvania  

100  

AIG 2011 Form 10-K            399  

American International Group, Inc.  

As of December 31, 2011    
     
   Jurisdiction 
of Incorporation 
or Organization    
     
   Percentage of Voting 
Securities held by 
Immediate Parent (1)     

Chartis Select Insurance Company  
     
  Delaware  

100  

Chartis Excess Limited  
     
  Ireland  

100  

Chartis Specialty Insurance Company  
     
  Illinois  

70  
   (15)   

Lexington Insurance Company  
     
  Delaware  

70  
   (16)   

Mt. Mansfield Company, Inc.  
     
  Vermont  

100  

National Union Fire Insurance Company of Vermont  
     
  Vermont  

100  

New Hampshire Insurance Company  
     
  Pennsylvania  

100  

Chartis Casualty Company  
     
  Pennsylvania  

100  

Granite State Insurance Company  
     
  Pennsylvania  

100  

Illinois National Insurance Co.  
     
  Illinois  

100  

Morefar Marketing, Inc.  
     
  Delaware  

100  

New Hampshire Insurance Services, Inc.  
     
  New Hampshire  

100  

Risk Specialists Companies, Inc.  
     
  Delaware  

100  

Risk Specialists Companies Insurance Agency, Inc.  
     
  Massachusetts  

100  

Agency Management Corporation  
     
  Louisiana  

100  

The Gulf Agency, Inc.  
     
  Alabama  

100  

Design Professionals Association Risk Purchasing Group, Inc.  
     
  Illinois  

100  

The Insurance Company of the State of Pennsylvania  
     
  Pennsylvania  

100  

AM Holdings LLC  
     
  Delaware  

100  

American Security Life Insurance Company, Ltd.  
     
  Liechtenstein  

100  

Chartis Azerbaijan Insurance Company Open Joint Stock Company  
     
  Azerbaijan  

51  
   (17)   

MG Reinsurance Limited  
     
  Vermont  

100  

SAFG Retirement Services, Inc.  
     
  Delaware  

100  

SunAmerica Life Insurance Company  
     
  Arizona  

100  

SunAmerica Annuity and Life Assurance Company  
     
  Arizona  

100  

SunAmerica Series Trust  
     
  Massachusetts  

100  

SunAmerica Asset Management Corp.  
     
  Delaware  

100  

SunAmerica Capital Services, Inc.  
     
  Delaware  

100  

SunAmerica Investments, Inc.  
     
  Georgia  

100  

AIG Advisor Group, Inc.  
     
  Maryland  

100  

SagePoint Financial, Inc.  
     
  Delaware  

100  

Financial Service Corporation  
     
  Delaware  

100  

FSC Securities Corporation  
     
  Delaware  

100  

Royal Alliance Associates, Inc.  
     
  Delaware  

100  

SunAmerica Affordable Housing Partners, Inc.  
     
  California  

100  

SunAmerica Retirement Markets, Inc.  
     
  Maryland  

100  

SunAmerica Financial Group, Inc.  
     
  Texas  

100  

AGC Life Insurance Company  
     
  Missouri  

100  

AIG Life of Bermuda, Ltd.  
     
  Bermuda  

100  

American General Life Insurance Company of Delaware  
     
  Delaware  

100  

American General Life and Accident Insurance Company  
     
  Tennessee  

100  

American General Bancassurance Services, Inc.  
     
  Illinois  

100  

American General Property Insurance Company  
     
  Tennessee  

100  

American General Life Insurance Company  
     
  Texas  

100  

AIG Enterprise Services, LLC  
     
  Delaware  

100  

American General Annuity Service Corporation  
     
  Texas  

100  

American General Life Companies, LLC  
     
  Delaware  

100  

The Variable Annuity Life Insurance Company  
     
  Texas  

100  

Valic Retirement Services Company  
     
  Texas  

100  

The United States Life Insurance Company in the City of New York  
     
  New York  

100  

Western National Life Insurance Company  
     
  Texas  

100  

American General Assurance Company  
     
  Illinois  

100  

400            AIG 2011 Form 10-K  

American International Group, Inc.  

As of December 31, 2011    
     
   Jurisdiction 
of Incorporation 
or Organization    
     
   Percentage of Voting 
Securities held by 
Immediate Parent (1)     

American General Indemnity Company  
     
  Illinois  

100  

American General Investment Management Corporation  
     
  Delaware  

100  

American General Realty Investment Corporation  
     
  Texas  

100  

Knickerbocker Corporation  
     
  Texas  

100  

SunAmerica Life Reinsurance Company  
     
  Missouri  

100  

United Guaranty Corporation  
     
  North Carolina  

100  

AIG United Guaranty Agenzia di Assicurazione S.R.L.  
     
  Italy  

100  

AIG United Guaranty Insurance (Asia) Limited  
     
  Hong Kong  

100  

AIG United Guaranty Mexico, S.A.  
     
  Mexico  

99.999  
   (18)   

AIG United Guaranty Re Limited  
     
  Ireland  

100  

United Guaranty Insurance Company  
     
  North Carolina  

100  

United Guaranty Mortgage Insurance Company  
     
  North Carolina  

100  

United Guaranty Mortgage Insurance Company of North Carolina  
     
  North Carolina  

100  

United Guaranty Partners Insurance Company  
     
  Vermont  

100  

United Guaranty Residential Insurance Company of North Carolina  
     
  North Carolina  

100  

United Guaranty Services, Inc.  
     
  North Carolina  

100  

United Guaranty Residential Insurance Company  
     
  North Carolina  

75.03  
   (19)   

United Guaranty Commercial Insurance Company of North Carolina  
     
  North Carolina  

100  

United Guaranty Credit Insurance Company  
     
  North Carolina  

100  

United Guaranty Mortgage Indemnity Company  
     
  North Carolina  

100  

(1)      Percentages include directors' qualifying shares.   
       (2)      Substantially all subsidiaries listed are consolidated in the accompanying financial statements. Certain subsidiaries have been
omitted from the tabulation. The omitted subsidiaries, when considered in the aggregate, do not constitute a significant subsidiary.   
       (3)      Also owned 10 percent by AIG Matched Funding Corp.   
       (4)      Also owned 38.792 percent by P.T. Tiara Citra Cemerlang.   
       (5)      Also owned 38.84 percent by Chartis Non-Life Holding Company (Japan), Inc. and 15.71 percent by
Chartis Far East Holdings Kabushiki Kaisha.   
       (6)      Also owned 19.72 percent by Chartis Overseas Association.   
       (7)      Also owned 4.99 percent by Chartis Global Management Company Limited.   
       (8)      Also owned 3.42 percent by Chartis Insurance Company-Puerto Rico.   
       (9)      Also owned 12 percent by New Hampshire Insurance Company, 11 percent by National Union Fire Insurance Company of
Pittsburgh, Pa., and 10 percent by American Home Assurance Company.   
       (10)      Also owned 34.71 percent by Chartis Overseas Limited, 2.12 percent by Chartis Bermuda Limited, and 1.39 percent
by Chartis Luxembourg Financing Limited.   
       (11)      Also owned 0.01 percent by Chartis Latin America Investments, LLC.   
       (12)      Also 5.734 percent by Steppe Securities, L.L.C. and 0.022 percent by Chartis Central Europe   CIS Insurance
Holdings Corporation.   
       (13)      Also owned 27 percent by New Hampshire Insurance Company, 22.06 percent by National Union Fire Insurance Company of
Pittsburgh, Pa., 5.75 percent by AIU Insurance Company, 5.05 percent by Commerce and Industry Insurance Company, 4.05 percent by The Insurance Company of the State of
Pennsylvania, 1.67 percent by Lexington Insurance Company, 1.62 percent by Chartis Property Casualty Company, 0.73 percent by Illinois National Insurance Co., and
0.6 percent by Granite State Insurance Company.   
       (14)      Also owned 27 percent by New Hampshire Insurance Company, 22.06 percent by National Union Fire Insurance Company of
Pittsburgh, Pa., 5.75 percent by AIU Insurance Company, 5.05 percent by Commerce and Industry Insurance Company, 4.05 percent by The Insurance Company of the State of
Pennsylvania, 1.67 percent by Lexington Insurance Company, 1.62 percent by Chartis Property Casualty Company, 0.73 percent by Illinois National Insurance Co., and
0.6 percent by Granite State Insurance Company.   
       (15)      Also owned 20 percent by The Insurance Company of the State of Pennsylvania and 10 percent by Chartis Property
Casualty Company.   
       (16)      Also owned 20 percent by The Insurance Company of the State of Pennsylvania and 10 percent by Chartis Property
Casualty Company.   
       (17)      Also owned 49 percent by Chartis International, LLC.   
       (18)      Also owned 0.001 percent by United Guaranty Services, Inc.   
       (19)      Also owned 24.97 percent by United Guaranty Residential Insurance Company of North Carolina.    

AIG 2011 Form 10-K            401  

QuickLinks    
 
  Subsidiaries of Registrant   

</EX-21>

<EX-23>
 8
 a2207458zex-23.htm
 EX-23

American International Group, Inc.   

    Exhibit 23     

    CONSENT OF INDEPENDENT REGISTERED PUBLIC ACCOUNTING FIRM     

      We hereby consent to the incorporation by reference in the Registration Statements on Form S-8
(No. 2-45346, No. 2-75875, No. 2-78291, No. 2-91945, No. 33-18073, No. 33-57250,
No. 333-48639, No. 333-58095, No. 333-70069, No. 333-83813, No. 333-31346,
No. 333-39976, No. 333-45828, No. 333-50198, No. 333-52938, No. 333-68640,
No. 333-101640, No. 333-101967, No. 333-108466, No. 333-111737, No. 333-115911,
No. 333-148148 and No. 333-168679) and Form S-3 (No. 333-160645, No. 333-74187,
No. 333-106040, No. 333-132561, No. 333-150865 and No. 333-143992) of American International Group, Inc. of our
report dated February 23, 2012 relating to the financial statements, financial statement schedules and the effectiveness of internal control over financial reporting, which appears in this
Annual Report on Form 10-K.   

   /s/ PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP   

  New
York, New York 
February 23, 2012   

  402            AIG 2011 Form 10-K  

</EX-23>

<EX-31>
 9
 a2207458zex-31.htm
 EX-31

American International Group, Inc.   

    Exhibit 31     

    CERTIFICATIONS     

  I,
Robert H. Benmosche, certify that:   

      1. I
have reviewed this Annual Report on Form 10-K of American International Group, Inc.;   

      2. Based
on my knowledge, this report does not contain any untrue statement of a material fact or omit to state a material fact necessary to make the statements made, in
light of the circumstances under which such statements were made, not misleading with respect to the period covered by this report;   

      3. Based
on my knowledge, the financial statements, and other financial information included in this report, fairly present in all material respects the financial condition,
results of operations and cash flows of the registrant as of, and for, the periods presented in this report;   

      4. The
registrant's other certifying officer and I are responsible for establishing and maintaining disclosure controls and procedures (as defined in Exchange Act
Rules 13a-15(e) and 15d-15(e)) and internal control over financial reporting (as defined in Exchange Act Rules 13a-15(f) and 15d-15(f))
for the registrant and have:   

(a)  Designed
such disclosure controls and procedures, or caused such disclosure controls and procedures to be designed under our supervision, to ensure that material
information relating to the registrant, including its consolidated subsidiaries, is made known to us by others within those entities, particularly during the period in which this report is being
prepared;   

      (b)  Designed
such internal control over financial reporting, or caused such internal control over financial reporting to be designed under our supervision, to provide
reasonable assurance regarding the reliability of financial reporting and the preparation of financial statements for external purposes in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles;   

      (c)  Evaluated
the effectiveness of the registrant's disclosure controls and procedures and presented in this report our conclusions about the effectiveness of the disclosure
controls and procedures, as of the end of the period covered by this report based on such evaluation; and   

      (d)  Disclosed
in this report any change in the registrant's internal control over financial reporting that occurred during the registrant's most recent fiscal quarter (the
registrant's fourth fiscal quarter in the case of an annual report) that has materially affected, or is reasonably likely to materially affect, the registrant's internal control over financial
reporting; and   

5. The
registrant's other certifying officer and I have disclosed, based on our most recent evaluation of internal control over financial reporting, to the registrant's
auditors and the audit committee of the registrant's board of directors (or persons performing the equivalent functions):   

(a)  All
significant deficiencies and material weaknesses in the design or operation of internal control over financial reporting which are reasonably likely to adversely
affect the registrant's ability to record, process, summarize and report financial information; and   

(b)  Any
fraud, whether or not material, that involves management or other employees who have a significant role in the registrant's internal control over financial
reporting.   

Date:
February 23, 2012   

/s/ ROBERT H. BENMOSCHE    

Robert H. Benmosche 
President and Chief Executive Officer  

AIG 2011 Form 10-K            403  

American International Group, Inc.   

    CERTIFICATIONS     

  I,
David L. Herzog, certify that:   

      1. I
have reviewed this Annual Report on Form 10-K of American International Group, Inc.;   

      2. Based
on my knowledge, this report does not contain any untrue statement of a material fact or omit to state a material fact necessary to make the statements made, in
light of the circumstances under which such statements were made, not misleading with respect to the period covered by this report;   

      3. Based
on my knowledge, the financial statements, and other financial information included in this report, fairly present in all material respects the financial condition,
results of operations and cash flows of the registrant as of, and for, the periods presented in this report;   

      4. The
registrant's other certifying officer and I are responsible for establishing and maintaining disclosure controls and procedures (as defined in Exchange Act
Rules 13a-15(e) and 15d-15(e)) and internal control over financial reporting (as defined in Exchange Act Rules 13a-15(f) and 15d-15(f))
for the registrant and have:   

(a)  Designed
such disclosure controls and procedures, or caused such disclosure controls and procedures to be designed under our supervision, to ensure that material
information relating to the registrant, including its consolidated subsidiaries, is made known to us by others within those entities, particularly during the period in which this report is being
prepared;   

      (b)  Designed
such internal control over financial reporting, or caused such internal control over financial reporting to be designed under our supervision, to provide
reasonable assurance regarding the reliability of financial reporting and the preparation of financial statements for external purposes in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles;   

      (c)  Evaluated
the effectiveness of the registrant's disclosure controls and procedures and presented in this report our conclusions about the effectiveness of the disclosure
controls and procedures, as of the end of the period covered by this report based on such evaluation; and   

(d)  Disclosed
in this report any change in the registrant's internal control over financial reporting that occurred during the registrant's most recent fiscal quarter (the
registrant's fourth fiscal quarter in the case of an annual report) that has materially affected, or is reasonably likely to materially affect, the registrant's internal control over financial
reporting; and   

5. The
registrant's other certifying officer and I have disclosed, based on our most recent evaluation of internal control over financial reporting, to the registrant's
auditors and the audit committee of the registrant's board of directors (or persons performing the equivalent functions):   

(a)  All
significant deficiencies and material weaknesses in the design or operation of internal control over financial reporting which are reasonably likely to adversely
affect the registrant's ability to record, process, summarize and report financial information; and   

      (b)  Any
fraud, whether or not material, that involves management or other employees who have a significant role in the registrant's internal control over financial
reporting.   

Date:
February 23, 2012   

/s/ DAVID L. HERZOG 

David L. Herzog 
Executive Vice President 
and Chief Financial Officer  

404            AIG 2011 Form 10-K  

</EX-31>

<EX-32>
 10
 a2207458zex-32.htm
 EX-32

American International Group, Inc.   

    Exhibit 32     

    CERTIFICATION     

      In connection with this Annual Report on Form 10-K of American International Group, Inc. (the "Company") for
the year ended December 31, 2011, as filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission on the date hereof (the "Report"), I, Robert H. Benmosche, President and Chief Executive Officer of the
Company, certify, pursuant to 18 U.S.C. Section 1350, that to my knowledge:   

      (1)  The
Report fully complies with the requirements of Section 13(a) or 15(d), as applicable, of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934; and   

      (2)  The
information contained in the Report fairly presents, in all material respects, the financial condition and results of operations of the Company.   

  Date:
February 23, 2012   

/s/ ROBERT H. BENMOSCHE 

Robert H. Benmosche 
President and Chief Executive Officer  

The foregoing certification is being furnished solely pursuant to 18 U.S.C. Section 1350 and is not being filed as part of the Report or as
a separate disclosure document.   

  AIG 2011 Form 10-K            405  

American International Group, Inc.   

    CERTIFICATION     

      In connection with this Annual Report on Form 10-K of American International Group, Inc. (the "Company") for
the year ended December 31, 2011, as filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission on the date hereof (the "Report"), I, David L. Herzog, Executive Vice President and Chief Financial
Officer of the Company, certify, pursuant to 18 U.S.C. Section 1350, that to my knowledge:   

      (1)  The
Report fully complies with the requirements of Section 13(a) or 15(d), as applicable, of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934; and   

      (2)  The
information contained in the Report fairly presents, in all material respects, the financial condition and results of operations of the Company.   

  Date:
February 23, 2012   

/s/ DAVID L. HERZOG 

David L. Herzog 
Executive Vice President and 
Chief Financial Officer  

The foregoing certification is being furnished solely pursuant to 18 U.S.C. Section 1350 and is not being filed as part of the Report or as
a separate disclosure document.   

  406            AIG 2011 Form 10-K  

</EX-32>

<EX-99.02>
 11
 a2207458zex-99_02.htm
 EX-99.02

QuickLinks  
  -- Click here to rapidly navigate through this document 

American International Group, Inc.   

    Exhibit 99.02     

Securities registered pursuant to Section 12(b) of the Act:          

Title of Each Class    
     
   Name of Each Exchange on Which Registered    

Common Stock, Par Value $2.50 Per Share  
     
      New York Stock Exchange  

Warrants (expiring January 19, 2021)  
     
      New York Stock Exchange  

5.75% Series A-2 Junior Subordinated Debentures  
     
      New York Stock Exchange  

4.875% Series A-3 Junior Subordinated Debentures  
     
      New York Stock Exchange  

6.45% Series A-4 Junior Subordinated Debentures  
     
      New York Stock Exchange  

7.70% Series A-5 Junior Subordinated Debentures  
     
      New York Stock Exchange  

Stock Purchase Rights  
     
      New York Stock Exchange  

AIG 2011 Form 10-K            407  

QuickLinks    
 
  Securities registered pursuant to Section 12(b) of the Act   

</EX-99.02>

<EX-101.INS>
 12
 aig-20111231.xml
 EX-101.INS

</EX-101.INS>

<EX-101.SCH>
 13
 aig-20111231.xsd
 EX-101.SCH

</EX-101.SCH>

<EX-101.CAL>
 14
 aig-20111231_cal.xml
 EX-101.CAL

</EX-101.CAL>

<EX-101.DEF>
 15
 aig-20111231_def.xml
 EX-101.DEF

</EX-101.DEF>

<EX-101.LAB>
 16
 aig-20111231_lab.xml
 EX-101.LAB

</EX-101.LAB>

<EX-101.PRE>
 17
 aig-20111231_pre.xml
 EX-101.PRE

</EX-101.PRE>

