<Header>
<FileStats>
    <FileName>20110218_10-K_edgar_data_40533_0001193125-11-039769_1.txt</FileName>
    <GrossFileSize>22452765</GrossFileSize>
    <NetFileSize>381994</NetFileSize>
    <NonText_DocumentType_Chars>5375259</NonText_DocumentType_Chars>
    <HTML_Chars>1983997</HTML_Chars>
    <XBRL_Chars>5745251</XBRL_Chars>
    <XML_Chars>8573758</XML_Chars>
    <N_Tables>91</N_Tables>
    <N_Exhibits>14</N_Exhibits>
</FileStats>
<SEC-Header>
0001193125-11-039769.hdr.sgml : 20110218
<ACCEPTANCE-DATETIME>20110218081926
ACCESSION NUMBER:		0001193125-11-039769
CONFORMED SUBMISSION TYPE:	10-K
PUBLIC DOCUMENT COUNT:		37
CONFORMED PERIOD OF REPORT:	20101231
FILED AS OF DATE:		20110218
DATE AS OF CHANGE:		20110218

FILER:

	COMPANY DATA:	
		COMPANY CONFORMED NAME:			GENERAL DYNAMICS CORP
		CENTRAL INDEX KEY:			0000040533
		STANDARD INDUSTRIAL CLASSIFICATION:	SHIP & BOAT BUILDING & REPAIRING [3730]
		IRS NUMBER:				131673581
		STATE OF INCORPORATION:			DE
		FISCAL YEAR END:			1231

	FILING VALUES:
		FORM TYPE:		10-K
		SEC ACT:		1934 Act
		SEC FILE NUMBER:	001-03671
		FILM NUMBER:		11622722

	BUSINESS ADDRESS:	
		STREET 1:		2941 FAIRVIEW PARK DRIVE
		STREET 2:		SUITE 100
		CITY:			FALLS CHURCH
		STATE:			VA
		ZIP:			22042-4513
		BUSINESS PHONE:		7038763000

	MAIL ADDRESS:	
		STREET 1:		2941 FAIRVIEW PARK DRIVE
		STREET 2:		SUITE 100
		CITY:			FALLS CHURCH
		STATE:			VA
		ZIP:			22042-4513

</SEC-Header>
</Header>

 
Proc-Type: 2001,MIC-CLEAR
Originator-Name: webmaster@www.sec.gov
Originator-Key-Asymmetric:
 MFgwCgYEVQgBAQICAf8DSgAwRwJAW2sNKK9AVtBzYZmr6aGjlWyK3XmZv3dTINen
 TWSM7vrzLADbmYQaionwg5sDW3P6oaM5D3tdezXMm7z1T+B+twIDAQAB
MIC-Info: RSA-MD5,RSA,
 KmDFSMKFydQ++cbBIXaTwiP9Pq7GWrHd+INaX3dC57dWyP8ug2c/iyazZgBKAHf8
 j0LBO8OhNdqnBd97AL+Low==

 0001193125-11-039769.txt : 20110218

10-K
 1
 d10k.htm
 FORM 10-K

Form 10-K 

Table of Contents  

UNITED STATES SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION   
  Washington, D.C. 20549       FORM 10-K        

[X]  
    ANNUAL REPORT PURSUANT TO SECTION 13 OR 15(d) OF THE SECURITIES      
  EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934       For the fiscal year ended December 31, 2010       OR   

[    ]  
    TRANSITION REPORT PURSUANT TO SECTION 13 OR 15(d) OF THE SECURITIES      
  EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934       For the transition period from  
                             to  
                                  Commission file number 1-3671             GENERAL
DYNAMICS CORPORATION             (Exact name of registrant as specified in its charter)    
   
     Registrant s
telephone number, including area code:        (703) 876-3000     
        Securities
registered pursuant to Section 12(b) of the Act:        

Title of each class    

Name of exchange       on which registered     
 
   Common stock, par value $1 per share   

New York Stock Exchange     
   Securities registered pursuant to Section 12(g) of the Act:    
  None    
       Indicate by check
mark if the registrant is a well-known seasoned issuer, as defined in Rule 405 of the Securities Act. Yes      No          
  Indicate by check mark if the registrant is not required to file reports pursuant to Section 13 or Section 15(d) of the Act. Yes
       No          Indicate by check mark whether the
registrant (1) has filed all reports required to be filed by Section 13 or 15(d) of the      Securities Exchange Act of
1934 during the preceding 12 months (or for such shorter period that the registrant was required to      file such reports), and
(2) has been subject to such filing requirements for the past 90 days. Yes      No             Indicate by check mark whether the registrant has submitted electronically and posted on its corporate Web site, if any, every      Interactive Data File required to be submitted and posted pursuant to Rule 405 of Regulation S-T ( 232.405 of this chapter) during   
  the preceding 12 months (or for such shorter period that the registrant was required to submit and post such files). Yes      No             Indicate by check mark if disclosure
of delinquent filers pursuant to Item 405 of Regulation S-K is not contained herein, and      will not be contained, to the
best of registrant s knowledge, in definitive proxy or information statements incorporated by      reference in Part III of
this Form 10-K or any amendment of this Form 10-K.             Indicate by check mark whether the
registrant is a large accelerated filer, an accelerated filer, a non-accelerated filer, or a smaller      reporting company. See the
definitions of  large accelerated filer,   accelerated filer  and  smaller reporting company  in   
  Rule 12b-2 of the Exchange Act.      Large Accelerated Filer     Accelerated Filer         Non-Accelerated Filer
        Smaller Reporting Company               Indicate by
check mark whether the registrant is a shell company (as defined in Rule 12b-2 of the Exchange Act). Yes        No       
  The aggregate market value of the voting common equity held by non-affiliates of the registrant was $21,219,557,495 as of July 4, 2010
     (based on the closing price of the shares on the New York Stock Exchange).   
  372,704,788 shares of the registrant s common stock were outstanding on January 30, 2011.   
   DOCUMENTS INCORPORATED BY REFERENCE:       Part III incorporates by reference information from certain portions of the registrant s definitive proxy statement for the 2011 annual   
  meeting of shareholders to be filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission within 120 days after the close of the fiscal year.

Table of Contents  

INDEX    

PART I   

Page  

Item 1.   
      
   Business   

3  

Item 1A.   
      
   Risk Factors   

14  

Item 1B.   
      
   Unresolved Staff Comments   

16  

Item 2.   
      
   Properties   

16  

Item 3.   
      
   Legal Proceedings   

16  

Item 4.   
      
   Removed and Reserved   

16  

PART II   

Item 5.   
      
   Market for the Company s Common Equity, Related Stockholder Matters and Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities   

17  

Item 6.   
      
   Selected Financial Data   

18  

Item 7.   
      
   Management s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations   

19  

Item 7A.   
      
   Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk   

35  

Item 8.   
      
   Financial Statements and Supplementary Data   

36  

Item 9.   
      
   Changes in and Disagreements with Accountants on Accounting and Financial Disclosure   

66  

Item 9A.   
      
   Controls and Procedures   

66  

Item 9B.   
      
   Other Information   

69  

PART III   

Item 10.   
      
   Directors, Executive Officers and Corporate Governance   

69  

Item 11.   
      
   Executive Compensation   

70  

Item 12.   
      
   Security Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owners and Management and Related Stockholder Matters   

70  

Item 13.   
      
   Certain Relationships and Related Transactions, and Director Independence   

70  

Item 14.   
      
   Principal Accountant Fees and Services   

70  

PART IV   

Item 15.   
      
   Exhibits and Financial Statement Schedules   

70  

Signatures   

71  

Schedule II   Valuation and Qualifying Accounts   

72  

Index to Exhibits   

72  

2                        General
Dynamics Annual Report           2010   

Table of Contents  

(Dollars in millions, unless otherwise noted)         
   PART I           ITEM 1.   BUSINESS         BUSINESS OVERVIEW       General Dynamics offers a broad portfolio of
products and services in business aviation; combat vehicles, weapons systems and munitions; military and commercial shipbuilding; and communications and information technology. Incorporated in Delaware, we employ approximately 90,000 people and have
a global presence.      We are dedicated to delivering consistently superior shareholder returns. Shareholder value is
created through disciplined program execution, organic growth, margin improvement, efficient cash-flow conversion and prudent capital deployment. To drive growth, we pursue innovative product development and fast currents in our core markets as well
as new customers and attractive opportunities in adjacent markets. To enhance margins, we seek to manage overhead costs, incentivize continuous-improvement initiatives and collaborate across our commercial and defense businesses. Our balanced
capital deployment approach includes: acquisitions and divestitures, dividends, internal investment and, when appropriate, the repurchase of company shares on the open market.   
  In creating shareholder value and delivering the highest-quality products and services, we foster a culture centered on
ethical behavior and integrity. This culture is evident in how we interact with shareholders, employees, customers, suppliers, partners and the communities in which we operate.   
  Formed in 1952 through the combination of Electric Boat Company, Consolidated Vultee (CONVAIR) and other companies, General
Dynamics grew organically and through acquisitions until the early 1990s, when we sold nearly all of our divisions except Electric Boat and Land Systems. Beginning in 1995, we expanded those two core defense businesses by acquiring additional
shipyards and combat vehicle-related businesses. In 1997, to reach a new, expanding market, we began acquiring companies with expertise in information technology products and services. In 1999, we purchased Gulfstream Aerospace Corporation, a
business-jet aircraft and aviation support-services company. Since 1995, we have acquired and integrated 57 businesses, including three in 2010.      General Dynamics operates through four business groups: Aerospace, Combat Systems, Marine Systems and Information Systems and Technology. For selected financial information regarding each of our business
groups, see Note Q to the Consolidated Financial Statements contained in Part II, Item 8, of this Annual Report on Form 10-K.       AEROSPACE
      Our Aerospace group designs, manufactures and outfits a comprehensive family of mid- and large-cabin business-jet aircraft,
and provides maintenance, refurbishment, outfitting and aircraft services for a variety of business-jet, narrow-body and wide-body aircraft customers globally. With more than 50 years of experience at the forefront of the business-jet aviation
market, the Aerospace group is noted for:       

superior aircraft design, quality, safety and reliability;      

technologically advanced cockpit and cabin systems and      

industry-leading product service and support.      
  The group s Gulfstream products include eight aircraft across a spectrum of price and performance options. The varying
ranges, speeds and cabin dimensions are well-suited to the transportation needs of an increasingly diverse global customer base. The large-cabin models are   

General Dynamics
Annual Report
         
2010                        3   

Table of Contents  

manufactured at Gulfstream s headquarters in Savannah, Georgia, and outfitted at one of the group s U.S. completion facilities. The
mid-cabin models are constructed by a key supplier and outfitted by Gulfstream in one of the group s U.S. completion centers.      While the installed base of aircraft is predominately in North America, international customers represent nearly 60 percent of the group s backlog, with growing order interest from emerging markets
including the Asia-Pacific region. Private companies and individual customers collectively represent approximately two-thirds of the group s total orders. Gulfstream remains a leading provider of aircraft for government and military service
around the world, with aircraft operated by nearly 40 nations. These government aircraft are used for head-of-state/executive transportation and a variety of special-mission applications, including aerial reconnaissance, maritime surveillance,
weather research and astronaut training.      To maximize profitability, management has adjusted aircraft production
rates, invested in innovative product development and facilities, and enhanced the group s global service network. For example, prior to the recent economic downturn, Gulfstream amassed a multi-year large-cabin backlog by making measured
increases in aircraft production that consciously lagged growing international customer demand. This backlog provided Gulfstream increased flexibility when global economic turmoil began to negatively impact the business-jet market in late 2008. In
response to this sudden market deterioration, we quickly and aggressively cut 2009 production levels to stabilize the backlog. We also reduced employment, cut overhead costs and introduced a multi-week summer furlough to adjust the group s
manufacturing operations. Improved new order activity and lower customer default levels enabled us to maintain large-cabin production in 2010 while modestly increasing mid-cabin production.   
  The Aerospace group continuously invests in research and development (R D) over the course of each aircraft model s
lifecycle to introduce new products and first-to-market enhancements that broaden customer choice, improve aircraft performance and set new standards for customer safety, comfort and in-flight productivity. The two newest aircraft to join the
Gulfstream family, the super-mid-size G250 and the ultra-large-cabin, ultra-high-speed G650, demonstrate this innovation. The G250, which will replace the G200, offers the largest cabin and the longest range at the fastest speed in its class. The
G650 has the longest range, fastest speed, largest cabin and most advanced cockpit in the Gulfstream fleet and defines a completely new segment at the top of the business-jet market. Scheduled to enter service in late 2011 and mid-2012,
respectively, both aircraft continue to perform well in flight testing, and they each remain on track for aircraft certification in 2011. Gulfstream s new and upgraded aircraft models are designed to minimize lifecycle costs while maximizing
the commonality of parts among the various models.      Current product-enhancement and development efforts include
initiatives in advanced avionics, composites, flight-control systems, acoustics, cabin technologies and enhanced vision systems. Recent innovations include the second-generation Enhanced Vision System (EVS II) and the Synthetic Vision-Primary Flight
Display (SV-PFD), both of which assist the pilot during low-visibility conditions. EVS II is a specially designed, forward-looking infrared (FLIR) camera that projects a real-world infrared image on the pilot's head-up display (HUD), while Synthetic
Vision provides three-dimensional images of the terrain, runway environment and obstacles on the pilot s primary head-down display. These products work in tandem to provide pilots with unparalleled situational awareness regardless of weather,
terrain or landing-field conditions.      In November 2010, we announced a $500 seven-year facilities expansion
project at Gulfstream s Savannah campus designed to ensure the group is well-positioned to meet future demand for business-jet aircraft and support services. This investment plan includes constructing new facilities, renovating existing
infrastructure and expanding the group s R D center. The new effort follows a recently completed $400 multi-year project in Savannah that established a purpose-built G650 manufacturing facility, increased aircraft-service capacity, improved
the group s customer sales and design center and created a state-of-the-art paint facility. This expansion initiative has paid immediate dividends. For example, the new manufacturing facility, designed for lean manufacturing and precision
assembly, has successfully produced the five G650 test aircraft that are being used to meet the program s certification testing schedule. Further, the newly expanded service center helped accommodate the significant recovery in customer demand
in 2010.      In addition to the increased service capacity in Savannah, Gulfstream s service network continues
to evolve to address the demands of the growing international installed base. In 2010, we focused on increasing the group s international parts and materials inventory, adding key personnel in fast-growing markets including Asia and South
America, and realigning our existing North American service organization. In the western hemisphere, Gulfstream s product support team continues to deploy a team of technicians in support of urgent customer-service requirements. We have also
leveraged our 2008 acquisition of Jet Aviation, a maintenance and repair services provider with aircraft service centers in more than 20 locations worldwide, to provide customers around the world first-in-class service and support 24 hours a day.
     Jet Aviation also expanded the Aerospace group s portfolio to include premium aircraft-outfitting operations
for airframes produced by other original equipment manufacturers (OEMs). Jet Aviation performs aircraft completions and refurbishments for business jets and narrow- and wide-body commercial aircraft at locations in Europe and the United States. As a
trusted provider of turnkey aircraft management and fixed-base operations (FBO) services to a broad global customer base, Jet Aviation supports the continued growth and diversification of the Aerospace portfolio.   
      
  4                        General
Dynamics Annual Report           2010   

Table of Contents  

A market leader in the business-aviation industry, the Aerospace group remains focused on:   

continuously investing in innovative first-to-market technologies and products;      

providing exemplary and timely service support to customers around the world and      

driving efficiencies into, and taking cost out of, the aircraft production, outfitting and service processes.      
  Revenues for the Aerospace group were 19 percent of our consolidated revenues in 2008 and 16 percent in both 2009 and 2010.
Revenues by major products and services were as follows:       
 
   COMBAT SYSTEMS       Our Combat
Systems group is a global leader in the design, development, production, support and enhancement of tracked and wheeled military vehicles, weapons systems and munitions for the United States and its allies. The group s product lines include:

wheeled combat and tactical vehicles,      

main battle tanks and tracked infantry vehicles,      

munitions and propellant,      

rockets and gun systems and      

drivetrain components and aftermarket parts.      
  Combat Systems has a strong foundation of programs that deliver core capabilities to customers across the military-vehicle,
weapons-system and munitions markets. These long-term production programs enable the group to pursue continuous process and productivity improvements, reduce product costs and improve the group s financial performance. The group also applies
its design and engineering expertise to develop product improvements that advance the utility and performance of these systems and increase warfighter safety and effectiveness, while identifying and positioning itself for new opportunities.
     Combat Systems  primary military-vehicle platforms consist of a variety of wheeled combat vehicles and main
battle tanks. At the heart of these programs are the Stryker wheeled combat vehicle and the Abrams main battle tank   two of the key ground-force assets for our customers. Both of these vehicles remain elemental to the military s force
structure and offer continuing opportunities for modernization and enhancements to meet the warfighter s evolving requirements.      The Stryker has proven itself as a versatile combat vehicle, supporting numerous missions with 10 variants: infantry carrier; command and control; medical evacuation; fire support; engineering; anti-tank;
mortar carrier; reconnaissance; mobile gun system (MGS); and nuclear, biological and chemical reconnaissance vehicle (NBCRV). In addition to ongoing production of these vehicles, Combat Systems continues to work with the Army to ensure the Stryker
remains relevant, affordable and capable of addressing a dynamic threat environment. For example, we are in the process of developing, testing and deploying in a period of just 18 months double-V-hulled vehicles that are designed to protect the crew
from improvised explosive devices (IEDs). The group was authorized to begin production of these upgraded vehicles in 2010, with initial deliveries expected in early 2011.   
  Combat Systems continues to support the Army s evolving needs for main battle tanks with technology upgrades to the
Abrams, such as the System Enhancement Package (SEP). The SEP-configured tank is a digital platform with an enhanced command-and-control system, second-generation thermal sights and improved armor. We are also engaged in ongoing development efforts
that can provide additional upgrade work while increasing the efficiency and capability of the tank.   
  Complementing these combat-vehicle programs are Combat Systems  weapons-systems and munitions programs. For ground
forces, the group manufactures vehicle armor, M2 heavy machine guns and MK19 and MK47 grenade launchers. For airborne platforms, Combat Systems produces weapons for most U.S. fighter aircraft, including all high-speed Gatling guns for fixed-wing
aircraft and the Hydra-70 family of rockets. Combat Systems is also a global manufacturer and supplier of highly engineered axles, suspensions, brakes and aftermarket parts for heavy-payload vehicles for a variety of military and commercial
customers.      The group holds leading or sole-source munitions supply positions for products such as:   

conventional bomb structures for the U.S. government,      

mortar systems and large-caliber ammunition for the Canadian Department of National Defence and      

military propellant for the North American market.         In addition, Combat Systems is the principal second source for the U.S. military s small-caliber ammunition needs.   
  Beyond these long-term platform and supply programs, Combat Systems provides logistics support in the United States 
ongoing operations in Iraq and Afghanistan. The group has opportunities associated with the   
         General Dynamics
Annual Report
         
2010                        5   

Table of Contents  

refurbishment of battle-damaged vehicles, the replacement of equipment that has reached the end of its service life and the replenishment of ammunition and other supplies for the U.S. armed
forces. As the sole provider of Abrams tanks and Stryker vehicles, Combat Systems is the primary contractor for the maintenance, repair and reset of these vehicles. The group is also a provider for the upgrade of Mine-Resistant, Ambush-Protected
(MRAP) vehicles.      With the expertise from our incumbency on current production programs, the Combat Systems group
is well-positioned to participate in future U.S. vehicle development programs. We are competing to lead the design and development of the Army s next-generation armored personnel carrier, the Ground Combat Vehicle (GCV). The group is developing
the Expeditionary Fighting Vehicle (EFV), a mission-critical combat platform designed to address the U.S. Marine Corps' amphibious assault requirement. As part of a system design and development contract, we have delivered seven new prototypes,
which have performed well in customer reliability testing. The group is also a member of one of three teams awarded technology demonstration contracts for the Joint Light Tactical Vehicle (JLTV), which is intended to replace a portion of the U.S.
fleet of High Mobility Multi-purpose Wheeled Vehicles (HMMWV).      Combat Systems has a significant presence
internationally and is a recognized military-vehicle integrator and leading defense-materiel provider worldwide. The group has manufacturing facilities in Australia, Austria, Brazil, Canada, France, Germany, Spain and Switzerland. These operations
are a key part of the defense industrial base of their home countries and have an extended customer base in more than 30 countries. The group s European business offers a broad range of products, including light- and medium-weight tracked and
wheeled tactical vehicles, amphibious bridge systems, artillery systems, light weapons, ammunition and propellants. Key platforms and their customers include the Leopard 2E tank and the Pizarro tracked infantry vehicle, produced for the Spanish
army; the EAGLE wheeled vehicle for Germany; and the Piranha and Pandur wheeled armored vehicles, which the group produces for several European and Middle Eastern countries.   
  Combat Systems is experiencing strong international demand as a result of the demonstrated success of its fielded products.
The group s U.S. export activities include Abrams tanks and light armored vehicles (LAVs) for U.S. allies in the Middle East. Additionally, in 2010, the group was selected to manufacture tracked combat vehicle hulls for the Israeli Ministry of
Defense. Combat Systems is also leveraging the strong customer relationships developed through its in-country operations. For example, Combat Systems continues work on Canada s next-generation LAV at its Ontario facility and expects to
transition from development to production in 2011. Through a contract awarded in 2010 to the United Kingdom operations of the company s Information Systems and Technology group (see pg. 8), we will co-produce with a U.K.-based partner the
Specialist Vehicle for the U.K. Ministry of Defence. The Specialist Vehicle is based on one of the group s proven platforms. The program is envisioned to field up to 1,200 vehicles of different variants.   
  The Combat Systems group continues to emphasize operational execution across the business to drive cost reductions and margin
improvement as the group delivers on its substantial backlog. In an environment of dynamic threats and evolving customer needs, the group remains focused on innovation, affordability and speed-to-market to secure new opportunities.   
  Revenues for the Combat Systems group were 28 percent of our consolidated revenues in 2008, 30 percent in 2009 and 27 percent
in 2010. Revenues by major products and services were as follows:       
     MARINE SYSTEMS       Our Marine Systems group designs, builds and supports submarines
and surface ships for the U.S. Navy and Jones Act ships for commercial customers. The group is one of two primary shipbuilders for the Navy. The group s diverse portfolio of platforms and capabilities includes:   

nuclear-powered submarines (Virginia Class),      

auxiliary and combat-logistics ships (T-AKE),      

commercial ships (Jones Act ships),      

design and engineering support (SSBN) and      

overhaul, repair and lifecycle support services.      
     The substantial majority of Marine Systems 
workload supports the U.S. Navy. These efforts include the construction of new ships, and the design and development of next-generation platforms to help the customer meet evolving missions and maintain its desired fleet size. The group also
provides maintenance and repair services to help maximize the life and effectiveness of in-service ships and maintain their relevance to the Navy s current requirements. This business consists primarily of major ship-construction programs
awarded under large, multi-ship contracts that span several years. The group s three mature Navy construction programs are the fast-attack Virginia-class nuclear-powered submarine, the Arleigh Burke-class (DDG-51) guided-missile destroyer and
the Lewis and Clark-class (T-AKE) dry cargo/ammunition combat-logistics ship.      The Virginia-class submarine is the
first U.S. submarine designed to address post-Cold War threats, including capabilities tailored for both   
      
  6                        General
Dynamics Annual Report           2010   

Table of Contents  

open-ocean and littoral missions. These stealthy ships are well-suited for a variety of global assignments, including intelligence gathering, special-operations missions and sea-based missile
launch. The Virginia-class program includes 30 submarines, which the customer is procuring in multi-ship blocks. The group has delivered the first seven of 18 boats under contract in conjunction with an industry partner that shares in the
construction of these vessels. In 2010, Marine Systems delivered the seventh boat in a record 65 months, five months faster than any of the previous boats in the program. The remaining 11 boats under contract extend deliveries through 2018. As a
result of U.S. combatant-commander requirements for the versatile capabilities of the Virginia-class submarine, strong customer and congressional support, innovative cost-saving design and production efforts, and successful program performance, the
group is scheduled to start construction of two submarines per year beginning in 2011. The group has been working toward this increased submarine production workload for several years.   
  Marine Systems also is the lead designer and producer of Arleigh Burke destroyers, the only active
destroyer in the Navy s global surface fleet. In 2010, we delivered  USS Jason Dunham , the 32   nd    of 34 DDG-51 ships the Navy has contracted with us to build. The two remaining ships are scheduled for delivery in 2011 and 2012, respectively. DDG-51s are multi-mission combatants that offer excellent
defense against a wide range of threats, including ballistic missile defense. The Navy plans to continue the DDG-51 program given the proven capabilities of this destroyer. The group expects to receive an award in 2011 for an additional DDG-51 ship
associated with the continuation of this program. Marine Systems remains the lead DDG-51 design and planning shipyard, managing the design, modernization and lifecycle support of these ships.   
  The group s T-AKE combat-logistics ship supports multiple missions for the Navy, including replenishment at sea for U.S.
and NATO operating forces around the world. T-AKE is the first Navy ship to incorporate proven commercial marine technologies such as integrated electric-drive propulsion. These technologies are designed to minimize T-AKE operations and maintenance
costs over an expected 40-year life. In 2010, we received construction contracts for the final two ships under the 14-ship program. The group has delivered the first 10 of these ships, including two in 2010. Work is underway on the remaining four
ships, with two deliveries scheduled in 2011 and two in 2012.      The group is also developing technologies and naval
platforms for the future. These design and engineering efforts include initial concept studies for the development of the next-generation ballistic-missile submarine (SSBN), which is expected to replace the current Ohio Class of ballistic missile
submarines. The group is also participating in the design of the SSBN Common Missile Compartment under development for the U.S. Navy and the Royal Navy of the United Kingdom.   
  Marine Systems participates in a number of programs in support of the Navy s efforts to renew its surface fleet. The
group has completed the detailed design of the next-generation guided-missile destroyer, the DDG-1000 Zumwalt Class, and is currently building the first ship at its Bath, Maine, shipyard. In 2010, the group was awarded a contract for continued
engineering and support services for the program, and long-lead construction and material for the second and third ships. We expect to be awarded construction contracts for the second and third ships in 2011.   
  In 2010, the group was awarded a contract for long-lead material and advanced design efforts for the first ship of the Mobile
Landing Platform (MLP) program. The MLP is an auxiliary support ship intended to serve as a floating transfer station, improving the Navy s ability to deliver equipment and cargo to areas without adequate port access in support of a variety of
missions. The Navy plans to build three MLP ships, and the contract for construction of the first ship is scheduled to be awarded in 2011.      In addition to these design and construction programs, Marine Systems provides comprehensive ship and submarine overhaul, repair and lifecycle support services to extend the service life of these vessels and
maximize the value of these ships to the customer. The group operates the only full-service maintenance and repair shipyard on the West Coast, positioning us to support the Navy s rebalancing of its surface force toward the Pacific Fleet. The
group also provides international allies with program management, planning, engineering and design support for submarine and surface-ship construction programs.      Beyond its Navy programs, Marine Systems designs and produces ships for commercial customers to meet the Jones Act requirement that ships carrying cargo between U.S. ports be built in U.S. shipyards. In
2010, the group completed a contract to build five product-carrier ships. Given the group s proven success on this program, the age of the fleet of Jones Act ships and environmental regulations that require double-hull tankers and impose
emission control limits, we anticipate additional commercial shipbuilding opportunities to materialize as the economy recovers.      To further the group s goals of efficiency, affordability for the customer and continuous improvement, we make strategic investments in our business, often in cooperation with the Navy and local
governments. In addition, Marine Systems leverages its design and engineering expertise across its business to improve program execution and generate cost savings. This knowledge sharing enables the group to use resources more efficiently and drive
process improvements. The group is well-positioned to effectively fulfill the ship-construction and support requirements of its Navy and commercial customers.      Revenues for the Marine Systems group were 19 percent of our consolidated revenues in 2008, 20 percent in 2009 and 21 percent in 2010. Revenues by major products and services were as follows:   

General Dynamics
Annual Report
         
2010                        7   

Table of Contents  

INFORMATION SYSTEMS AND TECHNOLOGY       Our Information Systems and Technology group provides critical technologies, products and services that support a wide range of government and commercial communication and information-sharing needs. The
group consists of a three-part portfolio centered on tactical communication systems, information technology services, and intelligence, surveillance and reconnaissance systems.   
   Tactical communication systems    The group designs, manufactures and delivers trusted and secure communications
systems, command-and-control systems and operational hardware to customers within the U.S. Department of Defense, the intelligence community and federal civilian agencies, and to international customers. Our leadership in this market results from
decades of experience with previous systems, incumbency on today s programs and an ongoing record of innovation that encompasses key technologies at the center of our customers  missions. These include:   

ruggedized mobile computing solutions with embedded wireless capability;      

information assurance and encryption technologies, products, systems and services that ensure the security and integrity of digital communications
worldwide;      

digital switching, broadband networking and automated network management;      

battlespace command-and-control systems and      

fixed and mobile radio and satellite communications systems and antenna technologies.      
  This market is characterized by programs that enhance warfighters  ability to communicate, collaborate and access vital
information through Internet-like networks on the battlefield. Key programs include the U.S. Army s Warfighter Information Network-Tactical (WIN-T) and the Joint Tactical Radio System (JTRS).   
  WIN-T is the Army s primary battlefield communications network. As the prime contractor, we are responsible for the
design, engineering, integration, production, program management and support of the network. Using ground and satellite communications links, WIN-T provides commanders with the digital communications services they need to access intelligence
information, initiate battle plans, collaborate with other military elements, issue orders and monitor the status of their forces. The group has deployed the first increment of WIN-T around the world to more than half of the U.S. Army. The group is
transitioning into the second increment of the program, which adds on-the-move command and control and expands the capability to additional soldiers. The third increment of the program is designed to provide enhanced network reliability and capacity
and smaller, more-tightly integrated communications and networking gear.      The JTRS program will provide
communications among all branches of the U.S. military on multi-channel, software-defined radios. We are developing the JTRS Handheld, Manpack, Small Form Fit (HMS) network radios to connect soldiers, sensors and robotic platforms. These small
radios will enhance dismounted soldiers  situational awareness and combat effectiveness by giving them greater communications capabilities and access to intelligence data in the field. This critical networking capability was successfully
demonstrated by the Army during extensive testing exercises in 2010 that connected command posts, on-the-move forces and dismounted soldiers. These exercises also demonstrated how WIN-T and JTRS enable key battle command applications to
increase force effectiveness across a variety of missions and terrain.      Information Systems and Technology
delivers the same type of modern communications and information-sharing benefits to many civilian customers, including the U.S. Department of Homeland Security and other federal civilian agencies. For example, we are the prime contractor for the
U.S. Coast Guard s Rescue 21 system, which provides enhanced search-and-rescue capabilities as well as state-of-the-art command-and-control capabilities to assist the Coast Guard in effectively deploying available assets on all maritime
missions.      We also provide many of these capabilities to non-U.S. customers, including the U.K. Ministry of
Defence and the Canadian Department of National Defence. Most recently, the U.K. Ministry of Defence awarded the group a contract for the demonstration phase of its Specialist Vehicle program. In this phase, the group will manage the design,
integration and production of seven prototypes. The Specialist Vehicle s open electronic architecture will make the fleet easier to maintain and reduce product lifecycle costs. Work under the contract will be shared with the Combat Systems
group, including a significant portion of the future production effort.       Information technology services
   The group provides mission-critical information technology (IT) and highly specialized mission-support services to the U.S. defense and intelligence communities, the Department of Homeland Security and other federal civilian agencies, and
commercial and international customers. The group specializes in:       

design, development, integration, maintenance and security of wireless and wire-line networks and enterprise infrastructure;

mission-operations simulation and training systems and services;      

large-scale data center consolidation and modernization and      

healthcare technology solutions and services.      
  In this market, Information Systems and Technology has a long-standing reputation for excellence in providing
technical-support personnel and domain specialists who enable customers to execute their missions effectively. For many customers, the group s employees are the on-call staff that provide technical support for both commercial desktop technology
and mission-specific hardware. Our employees also develop, install and operate mission systems on a day-to-day basis. In Fort Huachuca, Arizona, for example, Information Systems and Technology employees

8                        General
Dynamics Annual Report           2010   

Table of Contents  

provide training and IT support services for critical Army intelligence operations, including unmanned aircraft systems training units. We integrate and operate systems that create lifelike
training scenarios, helping operators improve their proficiency at a fraction of the cost of live-action exercises.   
  Information Systems and Technology also supplies network-modernization and IT infrastructure services to U.S. government
customers. As one of the U.S. Air Force s leading partners for network modernization, the group has provided IT support services to more than 75 Air Force bases, and it currently supports the Air Force s main operating bases. The group
also has provided continuous enterprise-wide IT services and support to the U.S. Senate for more than five years.   
  In addition, we are a leading provider of healthcare technology solutions that meet the fast-growing needs for technology
modernization of government and commercial healthcare organizations. Our offerings include data management, analytics, fraud prevention and detection software, decision support and process automation solutions. In Afghanistan and Iraq, the group
supports the Army s military healthcare IT mission, helping ensure continuity of care for injured soldiers by providing accurate and timely information to medical staff both in the field and at treatment facilities. For the Centers for Medicare
  Medicaid Services, we are supporting the government s implementation of healthcare reform and medical benefits programs, including facilitating a program to provide retirees with prescription health coverage.   
   Intelligence, surveillance and reconnaissance systems    We also provide mission-related systems development,
integration and operations support to customers in the U.S. defense, intelligence and homeland security communities, and to U.S. allies. These offerings include:       

open-architecture mission systems;      

signals and information collection, processing and distribution systems;      

design, development and integration of imagery solutions;      

sensors and cameras;      

special-purpose computing and      

cyber security services and products.         We have a 50-year legacy of providing advanced fire control systems for Navy submarine programs, and currently are developing and integrating commercial-off-the-shelf (COTS) software and hardware upgrades to
improve the tactical control capabilities for multiple submarine classes. This initiative leads the implementation of the Navy's open architecture and open business model approach on submarines with a design that emphasizes shared standards,
providing greater interoperability, scalability and supplier independence. Capitalizing on this expertise and open architecture approach, the group developed the core mission system for the Navy s Independence Class of Littoral Combat Ships
(LCS), and it is the ship mission systems integrator on the Joint High Speed Vessel (JHSV) program for the Army and the Navy.      Information Systems and Technology continues to expand its imagery offerings. For example, the group recently integrated cameras and optics with algorithms and sensors to enhance customers  ability to
gather and interpret visual data. This group also produces the Defense Department s most-widely used imagery-analysis software suite. This software is currently providing actionable information derived from raw intelligence and archived imagery
to more than 10,000 intelligence and tactical users.      Information Systems and Technology s contracts in
securing and protecting organizations from network attacks have resulted in a market-leading position in cyber security. The group performs data recovery, forensic examinations and diagnostics as a prime contractor for the DoD Cyber Crime Center
(DC3), the world s largest accredited cyber crime laboratory. It is also the principal support contractor for the Department of Homeland Security s U.S. Computer Emergency Readiness Team (US-CERT), which provides response support to and
defense against cyber attacks for U.S. executive branch agencies, and information sharing and collaboration with state and local government, industry and international partners.   
  The group s diverse customer base has stimulated strong growth opportunities in each of its three principal markets,
including:       

the warfighter s need for improved tactical communications and real-time intelligence;      

IT network and business system consolidation and modernization, and military and federal requirements for healthcare IT services and

the growing requirements for cyber security services among homeland security, defense, intelligence and commercial customers.
        Revenues for the Information Systems and Technology group were 34 percent of our consolidated
revenues in 2008 and 2009 and 36 percent in 2010. Revenues by major products and services were as follows:       
 
         General Dynamics
Annual Report
         
2010                        9   

Table of Contents  

CUSTOMERS       In 2010,
72 percent of our revenues were from the U.S. government; 10 percent were from U.S. commercial customers; 8 percent were directly from international defense customers; and the remaining 10 percent were from international commercial customers.
      U.S. GOVERNMENT    
  Our primary customers are the U.S. Department of Defense and the U.S. intelligence community. We have also developed relationships with other
U.S. government customers, including the Department of Homeland Security, Centers for Medicare   Medicaid Services, National Aeronautics and Space Administration and several first-responder agencies. Our revenues from the U.S. government
were as follows:       

*  
    In addition to our direct international sales, we sell to foreign governments through the Foreign Military Sales (FMS) program. Under the FMS program,
we contract with and are paid by the U.S. government, and the U.S. government assumes the risk of collection from the foreign government customer.      
  We perform our U.S. government business under fixed-price, cost-reimbursement and time-and-materials contracts. Our
production contracts are primarily fixed-price. Under these contracts, we agree to perform a specific scope of work for a fixed amount. Contracts for research, engineering, prototypes, repair and maintenance are typically cost-reimbursement or
time-and-materials. Under cost-reimbursement contracts, the customer reimburses us for allowable costs and pays a fixed fee or an incentive- or award-based fee. These fees are determined by our ability to achieve targets set in the contract, such as
cost, quality, schedule and performance. Under time-and-materials contracts, the customer pays a fixed hourly rate for direct labor and reimburses us for materials costs.   
  Fixed-price contracts accounted for approximately 55 percent of our U.S. government business in both 2009 and 2010;
cost-reimbursement contracts accounted for approximately 38 percent in 2009 and 39 percent in 2010; and time-and-materials contracts accounted for approximately 7 percent in 2009 and 6 percent in 2010.   
  Each of these contract types presents advantages and disadvantages. Fixed-price contracts typically have higher fee levels as
we are required to absorb cost overruns, should they occur. Therefore, these types of contracts offer us additional profits if we can complete the work for less than the contract amount. Cost-reimbursement contracts generally subject us to lower
risk. They also can include fee schedules that allow the customer to make additional payments when we satisfy certain performance criteria. However, not all costs are reimbursed under these types of contracts, and the government carefully reviews
the costs we charge. In addition, the negotiated base fees associated with cost-reimbursement contracts are generally lower, consistent with our lower risk. Under time-and-materials contracts, our profit may vary if actual labor-hour costs vary
significantly from the negotiated rates. Additionally, because we often charge materials costs with little or no fee, the content mix can impact the profit margins associated with these contracts.   
   U.S. COMMERCIAL       Our U.S.
commercial revenues were $4.1 billion in 2008, $3.3 billion in 2009 and $3.2 billion in 2010. This represented approximately 14 percent of our consolidated revenues in 2008 and 10 percent in both 2009 and 2010. The majority of these revenues are for
business-jet aircraft where our customer base consists of individuals and public and privately held companies representing a wide range of industries. Other commercial products include drivetrain components and aftermarket parts in our Combat
Systems group, Jones Act ships in our Marine Systems group and ruggedized mobile computing solutions in our Information Systems and Technology group.       INTERNATIONAL       Our direct revenues from government and commercial customers
outside the United States were $5.1 billion in 2008 and $6 billion in both 2009 and 2010. This represented approximately 17 percent of our consolidated revenues in 2008, 19 percent in 2009 and 18 percent in 2010.   
  We conduct business with government customers around the world with primary subsidiary operations in Australia, Austria,
Brazil, Canada, France, Germany, Italy, Mexico, Spain, Switzerland and the United Kingdom. Our non-U.S. defense subsidiaries are committed to developing long-term relationships with their respective governments and have distinguished themselves as
principal regional suppliers and employers.      Our international commercial business consists primarily of
business-jet aircraft exports and worldwide aircraft services. The market for business-jet aircraft and related services outside North America has expanded significantly in recent years, particularly in emerging markets, including the Asia-Pacific
region. While the United States continues to be our largest market for business aircraft, orders from customers outside North America represent a growing segment of our aircraft business, approximately 60 percent of total orders and backlog in 2010.

10                        General
Dynamics Annual Report           2010   

Table of Contents  

For a discussion of the risks associated with conducting business in international locations,
see Risk Factors contained in Part I, Item 1A, of this Annual Report on Form 10-K. For information regarding sales and assets by geographic region, see Note Q to the Consolidated Financial Statements contained in Part II, Item 8, of this
Annual Report on Form 10-K.       COMPETITION       Several factors determine our ability to compete successfully in both the defense and business-jet aircraft markets. While customers  evaluation criteria vary, the principal competitive elements
include:       

the technical excellence, reliability and cost competitiveness of our products and services;      

our ability to innovate and develop new products and technology that improve mission performance;      

successful program execution and on-time delivery of complex, integrated systems;      

our global footprint and accessibility to customers;      

our indigenous presence in the countries of several key customers;      

the reputation and customer confidence derived from our past performance and      

the successful management of our businesses and customer relationships.          DEFENSE MARKET       The U.S. government contracts with numerous domestic and foreign
companies for products and services. We compete against other large platform and system-integration contractors, as well as smaller companies that specialize in a particular technology or capability. Internationally, we compete with global defense
contractors  exports and the offerings of private and state-owned defense manufacturers based in the countries where we operate. Our Combat Systems group competes with a large number of domestic and foreign businesses. Our Marine Systems group
has one primary competitor, Northrop Grumman Corporation, with which it also partners or subcontracts on several programs, including the Virginia-class submarine. Our Information Systems and Technology group competes with many companies, from large
defense companies to small niche competitors with specialized technologies. The operating cycle of many of our major platform programs can result in sustained periods of program continuity when we perform successfully.   
  We also are involved in teaming and subcontracting relationships with some of our competitors. Competitions for major defense
programs often require companies to form teams to bring together broad capabilities to meet the customer s requirements. Opportunities associated with these programs include roles as the program s integrator, overseeing and coordinating
the efforts of all participants in the team, or as a provider of a specific hardware, such as military vehicles provided by Combat Systems, or a subsystem element, such as core mission systems provided by Information Systems and Technology.
     Another competitive factor in the defense market is the U.S. government s use of multiple-award indefinite
delivery, indefinite quantity (IDIQ) contracts to provide customers with flexible procurement options. IDIQ contracts allow the government to select a group of eligible contractors for a program and establish an overall spending limit. When the
government awards IDIQ contracts to multiple bidders under the same program, we must compete to be selected as a participant in the program and subsequently compete for individual delivery orders. This contracting model is most common among our
Information Systems and Technology group s customers but is also being used in programs for which our Combat Systems group competes.   
   BUSINESS-JET AIRCRAFT MARKET    
  The business-jet aircraft manufacturing market is divided into segments based on aircraft range, price and cabin size. Gulfstream has several
competitors for each of its products, with more competitors for the shorter-range aircraft. Key competitive factors include aircraft safety, reliability and performance; comfort and in-flight productivity; service quality, global footprint and
timeliness; technological and new-product innovation; and price. We believe Gulfstream competes effectively in all of these areas.      The Aerospace group competes worldwide in its business-jet aircraft services business primarily on the basis of price, service quality and timeliness. In its maintenance, repair and overhaul (MRO) and
fixed-base operations (FBO) business, the group competes with several other large companies, as well as a number of smaller companies, particularly in the maintenance business. In its completions business, the group competes with original equipment
manufacturers (OEMs), as well as other third-party providers.   
         General Dynamics
Annual Report
         
2010                        11   

Table of Contents  

BACKLOG    
  Our total backlog represents the estimated remaining sales value of work to be performed under firm contracts and includes funded and
unfunded portions. For additional discussion of backlog, see Management s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations contained in Part II, Item 7, of this Annual Report on Form 10-K.   
  Summary backlog information for each of our business groups follows:   
   
     RESEARCH AND DEVELOPMENT       To foster innovative product development and
evolution, we conduct sustained R D activities as part of our normal business operations. In the commercial sector, most of our Aerospace group s R D activities support Gulfstream s product enhancement and development programs. In
our defense businesses, we conduct both customer-sponsored R D activities under U.S. government contracts and company-sponsored R D. In accordance with government regulations, we recover a significant portion of company-sponsored R D
expenditures through overhead charges to U.S. government contracts. For more information on our R D activities, including our expenditures for the past three years, see Note A to the Consolidated Financial Statements contained in Part II,
Item 8, of this Annual Report on Form 10-K.       INTELLECTUAL PROPERTY    
  We develop technology, manufacturing processes and systems-integration practices. In addition to owning a large portfolio of proprietary
intellectual property, we license some intellectual property rights to and from others. The U.S. government holds licenses to our patents developed in the performance of U.S. government contracts, and it may use or authorize others to use the
inventions covered by our patents. Although these intellectual property rights are important to the operation of our business, no existing patent, license or other intellectual property right is of such importance that its loss or termination would,
in our opinion, have a material impact on our business.       EMPLOYEES    
  On December 31, 2010, we had approximately 90,000 employees, one-fifth of whom work under collective agreements with various labor
unions and worker representatives. Agreements covering approximately 3 percent of total employees are due to expire during 2011. Historically, we have renegotiated labor agreements without any significant disruption of operating activities.
      RAW MATERIALS, SUPPLIERS AND SEASONALITY       We depend on suppliers and subcontractors for raw materials and components. These supply networks can experience price fluctuations and capacity constraints, which can put pressure on pricing. Effective
management and oversight of suppliers and subcontractors is an important element of our successful performance. We attempt to mitigate these risks through long-term agreements with our suppliers, by negotiating flexible pricing terms in our customer
contracts and by procuring from our suppliers jointly across our business groups to achieve economies of scale. We have not experienced, and do not foresee, significant difficulties in obtaining the materials, components or supplies necessary for
our business operations.      Our business is not generally seasonal in nature. The timing of contract awards, the
availability of funding from the customer, the incurrence of contract costs and unit deliveries are the primary drivers of our revenue recognition. In the United States, these factors are influenced by the federal government s
October-to-September fiscal year. This process has historically resulted in higher revenues in the latter half of the year. Internationally, many of our government customers schedule deliveries toward the end of the calendar year, resulting in
increasing revenues and earnings over the course of the year.   
      
  12                        General
Dynamics Annual Report           2010   

Table of Contents  

REGULATORY MATTERS    
   U.S. GOVERNMENT CONTRACTS    
  U.S. government contracts are subject to procurement laws and regulations. The Federal Acquisition Regulation (FAR) and the Cost Accounting
Standards (CAS) govern the majority of our contracts. The FAR mandates uniform policies and procedures for U.S. government acquisitions and purchased services. Also, individual agencies can have acquisition regulations that provide implementing
language for the FAR or that supplement the FAR. For example, the Department of Defense implements the FAR through the Defense Federal Acquisition Regulation supplement (DFARs). For all federal government entities, the FAR regulates the phases of
any product or service acquisition, including:       

acquisition planning,      

competition requirements,      

contractor qualifications,      

protection of source selection and vendor information and      

acquisition procedures.         In addition, the FAR addresses the allowability of our costs, while the CAS address how those costs can be allocated to contracts. The FAR also subjects us to audits and other government reviews covering
issues such as cost, performance and accounting practices relating to our contracts.       INTERNATIONAL    
  Our international sales are subject to the applicable foreign government regulations and procurement policies and practices, as well as
certain U.S. policies and regulations, including the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act (FCPA). We are also subject to regulations governing investments, exchange controls, repatriation of earnings and import-export control, including the International
Traffic in Arms Regulations (ITAR).       BUSINESS-JET AIRCRAFT       The Aerospace group is subject to Federal Aviation Administration (FAA) regulation in the United States and other similar aviation regulatory authorities internationally, including the European Aviation
Safety Agency (EASA). For an aircraft to be manufactured and sold, the model must receive a type certificate from the appropriate aviation authority, and each aircraft must receive a certificate of airworthiness. Aircraft completions also require
approval by the appropriate aviation authority, which often is accomplished through a supplemental type certificate. Aviation authorities can require changes to a specific aircraft or model type for safety reasons if they believe the aircraft does
not meet their standards. Maintenance facilities and charter operations must be licensed by aviation authorities as well.       ENVIRONMENTAL
      We are subject to a variety of federal, state, local and foreign environmental laws and regulations. These laws and
regulations cover the discharge, treatment, storage, disposal, investigation and remediation of some materials, substances and wastes. We are directly or indirectly involved in environmental investigations or remediation at some of our current and
former facilities and at third-party sites that we do not own but where we have been designated a Potentially Responsible Party (PRP) by the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency or a state environmental agency. As a PRP, we potentially are liable to
the government or third parties for the full cost of remediating contamination at a relevant site. In cases where we have been designated a PRP, generally we seek to mitigate these environmental liabilities through available insurance coverage and
by pursuing appropriate cost-recovery actions. In the unlikely event we are required to fully fund the remediation of a site, the current statutory framework would allow us to pursue contributions from other PRPs. We regularly assess our compliance
status and management of environmental matters.      Operating and maintenance costs associated with environmental
compliance and management of contaminated sites are a normal, recurring part of our operations. Historically, these costs have not been material. Environmental costs often are allowable and recoverable under our contracts with the U.S. government.
Based on information currently available and current U.S. government policies relating to allowable costs, we do not expect continued compliance with environmental regulations to have a material impact on our results of operations, financial
condition or cash flows. For additional information relating to the impact of environmental matters, see Note N to the Consolidated Financial Statements contained in Part II, Item 8, of this Annual Report on Form 10-K.   
   AVAILABLE INFORMATION    
  We file several types of reports and other information with the Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC) pursuant to Section 13(a) or
15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended. These reports and information include an annual report on Form 10-K, quarterly reports on Form 10-Q, current reports on Form 8-K and proxy statements. Free copies of these items are made
available on our website (www.generaldynamics.com) as soon as practicable and through the General Dynamics investor relations office at (703) 876-3152.      These items also can be read and copied at the SEC s Public Reference Room at 100 F Street, N.E., Washington, DC 20549. Information on the operation of the Public Reference Room is available by calling
the SEC at (800) SEC-0330. The SEC maintains a website (www.sec.gov) that contains reports, proxy and information statements, and other information regarding issuers that file electronically with the SEC.   
         General Dynamics
Annual Report
         
2010                        13   

Table of Contents  

ITEM 1A.   RISK FACTORS
       An investment in our common stock or debt securities is subject to risks and uncertainties. Investors should consider
the following factors, in addition to the other information contained in this Annual Report on Form 10-K, before deciding whether to purchase our securities.      Investment risks can be market-wide as well as unique to a specific industry or company. The market risks faced by an investor in our stock are similar to the uncertainties faced by investors in a broad
range of industries. There are, however, some risks that apply more specifically to General Dynamics based on our type of business.      Because three of our four business groups serve the defense market, our revenues are concentrated with the U.S. government. This customer relationship involves certain unique risks. In addition, our sales to
international customers expose us to different financial and legal risks. In our Aerospace group s market, we face risks tied to U.S. and global economic conditions. Despite the varying nature of our U.S. and international defense and
business-aviation operations and the markets they serve, each group shares some common risks, such as the ongoing development of high-technology products and the price, availability and quality of commodities and subsystems.   
   We depend on the U.S. government for a significant portion of our revenues.  In each of the past three years, more than
two-thirds of our revenues were from the U.S. government. U.S. defense spending historically has been driven by perceived threats to national security. While the country has been under an elevated threat level in recent years, there is no assurance
that defense budgets will be sustained at current levels. In addition, competing demands for federal funds could pressure all areas of spending, which could further impact the defense budget.   
  A decrease in U.S. government defense spending or changes in spending allocation could result in one or more of our programs
being reduced, delayed or terminated. Reductions in our existing programs could adversely affect our future revenues and earnings.       U.S. government contracts are not always fully funded at inception and are subject to termination.  Our U.S. government revenues are funded by agency budgets that operate on an October-to-September
fiscal year. In February of each year, the President of the United States presents to the Congress the budget for the upcoming fiscal year. This budget proposes funding levels for every federal agency and is the result of months of policy and
program reviews throughout the Executive branch. For the remainder of the year, the appropriations and authorization committees of the Congress review the President s budget proposals and establish the funding levels for the upcoming fiscal
year. Once these levels are enacted into law, the Executive Office of the President administers the funds to the agencies.      There are two primary risks associated with this process. First, the process may be delayed or disrupted. Changes in congressional schedules due to elections or other legislative priorities, negotiations for
program funding levels or unforeseen world events can interrupt the funding for a program or contract. Second, future revenues under existing multi-year contracts are conditioned on the continuing availability of congressional appropriations. The
Congress typically appropriates funds on a fiscal-year basis, even though contract performance may extend over many years. Changes in appropriations in subsequent years may impact the funding available for these programs. Delays or changes in
funding can impact the timing of available funds or lead to changes in program content.      In addition, U.S.
government contracts generally permit the government to terminate a contract, in whole or in part, for convenience. If a contract is terminated for convenience, a contractor usually is entitled to receive payments for its allowable costs and the
proportionate share of fees or earnings for the work performed. The government may also terminate a contract for default in the event of a breach by the contractor. If a contract is terminated for default, the government in most cases pays only for
the work it has accepted. The loss of anticipated funding or the termination of multiple or large programs could have an adverse effect on our future revenues and earnings.   
   We are subject to audit by the U.S. government.  U.S. government agencies routinely audit and investigate government
contractors. These agencies review a contractor s performance under its contracts, cost structure and compliance with applicable laws, regulations and standards. The U.S. government also reviews the adequacy of, and a contractor s
compliance with, its internal control systems and policies, including the contractor s purchasing, property, estimating, labor, accounting and information systems. In some cases, audits may result in costs not being reimbursed or subject to
repayment. If an audit or investigation were to result in allegations of improper or illegal activities, we could be subject to civil or criminal penalties and administrative sanctions, including termination of contracts, forfeiture of profits,
suspension of payments, fines, and suspension or prohibition from doing business with the U.S. government. In addition, we could suffer reputational harm if allegations of impropriety were made against us.   
   Our Aerospace group is subject to changing customer demand for business aircraft.  Our Aerospace group s
business-jet market is driven by the demand for business-aviation products and services by business, individual and government customers in the United States and around the world. The group s future results also depend on other factors,
including general economic conditions, the availability of credit and trends in capital goods markets. If customers default on existing contracts and our Aerospace group is unable to replace those contracts, the group s anticipated revenues and
profitability could be reduced as a result.   
      
  14                        General
Dynamics Annual Report           2010   

Table of Contents  

Our earnings and margins depend on our
ability to perform under our contracts.  When agreeing to contractual terms, our management makes assumptions and projections about future conditions or events. These projections assess:   

the productivity and availability of labor,      

the complexity of the work to be performed,      

the cost and availability of materials,      

the impact of delayed performance and      

the timing of product deliveries.         If there is a significant change in one or more of these circumstances or estimates, or if we face unexpected contract costs, the profitability of one or more of these contracts may be adversely affected.
This could affect our earnings and margins. If we fail to adequately manage the risks under our contracts, particularly fixed-price contracts, our earnings and margins may be adversely affected.   
   Our earnings and margins depend in part on subcontractor performance, as well as raw material and component availability
and pricing.  We rely on other companies to provide raw materials, major components and subsystems for our products. Subcontractors perform some of the services that we provide to our customers. We depend on these subcontractors and vendors to
meet our contractual obligations in full compliance with customer requirements. Occasionally, we rely on only one or two sources of supply that, if disrupted, could have an adverse effect on our ability to meet our commitments to customers. Our
ability to perform our obligations as a prime contractor may be adversely affected if one or more of these suppliers is unable to provide the agreed-upon supplies or perform the agreed-upon services in a timely and cost-effective manner.   
   International sales and operations are subject to greater risks that sometimes are associated with doing business in
foreign countries.  Our international business may pose different risks than our business in the United States. In some countries there is increased chance for economic, legal or political changes. Government customers in newly formed free-market
economies typically have procurement procedures that are less mature, which can complicate the contracting process. In this context, our international business may be sensitive to changes in a foreign government s leadership, national
priorities and budgets. International transactions can involve increased financial and legal risks arising from foreign exchange-rate variability and differing legal systems. In addition, some international government customers require contractors
to agree to specific in-country purchases, manufacturing agreements or financial support arrangements, known as offsets, as a condition for a contract award. The contracts may include penalties if we fail to meet the offset requirements. An
unfavorable event or trend in any one or more of these factors could adversely affect our revenues and earnings associated with our international business.       Our future success will depend, in part, on our ability to develop new products and maintain a qualified workforce to meet the needs of our customers.  Virtually all of the products that we produce and
sell are highly engineered and require sophisticated manufacturing and system-integration techniques and capabilities. The commercial and government markets in which we operate are characterized by rapidly changing technologies. The product and
program needs of our government and commercial customers change and evolve regularly. Accordingly, our future performance depends, in part, on our ability to develop and manufacture competitive products, and bring those products to market quickly at
cost-effective prices. In addition, because of the highly specialized nature of our business, we must be able to hire and retain the skilled and qualified personnel necessary to perform the services required by our customers. If we are unable to
develop new products that meet customers  changing needs or successfully attract and retain qualified personnel, our future revenues and earnings may be adversely affected.   
   Developing new technologies entails significant risks and uncertainties that may not be covered by indemnity or
insurance.  While we maintain insurance for some business risks, it is not practicable to obtain coverage to protect against all operational risks and liabilities. Where permitted by applicable laws, we seek indemnification from the U.S.
government. In addition, we may seek limitation of potential liability related to the sale and use of our homeland security products and services through qualification by the Department of Homeland Security under the SAFETY Act provisions of the
Homeland Security Act of 2002. We may elect to provide products or services even in instances where we are unable to obtain such indemnification or qualification.   
   We have made and expect to continue to make investments, including acquisitions and joint ventures, that involve risks and
uncertainties.  These activities, particularly in the current environment of increased governmental regulation and enforcement both domestically and abroad, may expose us to legal and regulatory risks that are different from the risks we
currently experience in our existing businesses. When evaluating potential mergers and acquisitions, we make judgments regarding the value of business opportunities, technologies and other assets, and the risks and costs of potential liabilities
based on information available to us at the time of the transaction. Whether we realize the anticipated benefits from these transactions depends on multiple factors, including our integration of the businesses involved, the performance of the
underlying products, capabilities or technologies, and market conditions following the acquisition. Although we believe we have established appropriate procedures and processes to mitigate these risks and have a proven track record of successful
acquisitions and investments, unanticipated performance issues and acquired liabilities associated with these activities could adversely affect our financial results.   
         General Dynamics
Annual Report
         
2010                        15   

Table of Contents  

FORWARD-LOOKING STATEMENTS    
  This Annual Report on Form 10-K contains forward-looking statements that are based on management s expectations, estimates, projections
and assumptions. Words such as  expects,   anticipates,   plans,   believes,   scheduled,   estimates,   should  and variations of these words and similar expressions are intended
to identify forward-looking statements. These include but are not limited to projections of revenues, earnings, segment performance, cash flows, contract awards, aircraft production, deliveries and backlog stability. Forward-looking statements are
made pursuant to the safe harbor provisions of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995, as amended. These statements are not guarantees of future performance and involve certain risks and uncertainties that are difficult to predict.
Therefore, actual future results and trends may differ materially from what is forecast in forward-looking statements due to a variety of factors, including, without limitation, the risk factors discussed in this section.   
  All forward-looking statements speak only as of the date of this report or, in the case of any document incorporated by
reference, the date of that document. All subsequent written and oral forward-looking statements attributable to General Dynamics or any person acting on our behalf are qualified by the cautionary statements in this section. We do not undertake any
obligation to update or publicly release any revisions to forward-looking statements to reflect events, circumstances or changes in expectations after the date of this report.          ITEM 1B.   UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS     
  None.          ITEM 2.   PROPERTIES        We operate in a number of offices, manufacturing plants, laboratories, warehouses and other facilities in the United States and abroad. We believe our main facilities are adequate for our present needs and,
given planned improvements and construction, expect them to remain adequate for the foreseeable future.      On
December 31, 2010, our business groups had major operations at the following locations:       

Aerospace    Lincoln and Long Beach, California; West Palm Beach, Florida; Brunswick and Savannah, Georgia; Cahokia, Illinois; Westfield,
Massachusetts; Las Vegas, Nevada; Teterboro, New Jersey; Dallas, Texas; Appleton, Wisconsin; Beijing, China; Dusseldorf and Hannover, Germany; Mexicali, Mexico; Moscow, Russia; Singapore; Basel, Geneva and Zurich, Switzerland; Dubai, United Arab
Emirates; Biggin Hill and Luton, United Kingdom.      

Combat Systems    Anniston, Alabama; East Camden, Arkansas; Crawfordsville, St. Petersburg and Tallahassee, Florida; Chicago and Marion,
Illinois; Saco, Maine; Westminster, Maryland; Shelby Township, Sterling Heights and Troy, Michigan; Lincoln, Nebraska; Charlotte, North Carolina; Lima, Ohio; Eynon and Red Lion, Pennsylvania; Garland, Texas; Williston, Vermont; Marion and
Woodbridge, Virginia; Oshkosh, Wisconsin; Vienna, Austria; Edmonton, London, La Gardeur and Valleyfield, Canada; St. Etienne, France; Kaiserslautern, Germany; Granada, La Coruna, Oviedo, Palencia, Sevilla and Trubia, Spain; Kreuzlingen, Switzerland.

Marine Systems    San Diego, California; Groton and New London, Connecticut; Bath and Brunswick, Maine; North Kingstown, Rhode Island;
Mexicali, Mexico.      

Information Systems and Technology    Scottsdale, Arizona; San Diego and Santa Clara, California; Towson, Maryland; Needham, Pittsfield and
Taunton, Massachusetts; Ypsilanti, Michigan; Bloomington, Minnesota; Nashua, New Hampshire; Greensboro and Newton, North Carolina; Kilgore, Texas; Arlington, Chantilly, Chesapeake, Fairfax and Herndon, Virginia; Calgary and Ottawa, Canada; Andover,
Oakdale and Tewkesbury, United Kingdom.         A summary of floor space by business group on
December 31, 2010, follows:       

ITEM 3.   LEGAL PROCEEDINGS
       For information relating to legal proceedings, see Note N to the Consolidated Financial Statements contained in Part
II, Item 8, of this Annual Report on Form 10-K.   
      ITEM 4.   REMOVED AND
RESERVED     
      
  16                        General
Dynamics Annual Report           2010   

Table of Contents  

PART II           ITEM 5.   MARKET FOR THE COMPANY S COMMON EQUITY, RELATED STOCKHOLDER
MATTERS AND ISSUER PURCHASES OF EQUITY SECURITIES        Our common stock is listed on the New York Stock Exchange.
     The high and low sales prices of our common stock and the cash dividends declared on our common stock for each
quarter of 2010 and 2009 are included in the Supplementary Data contained in Part II, Item 8, of this Annual Report on Form 10-K.      On January 30, 2011, there were approximately 14,000 holders of record of our common stock.      For information regarding securities authorized for issuance under our equity compensation plans, see Note O to the Consolidated Financial Statements contained in Part II, Item 8, of this Annual Report
on Form 10-K.      We did not make any unregistered sales of equity securities in 2010.   
  The following table provides information about our fourth quarter repurchases of equity securities that are registered
pursuant to Section 12 of the Exchange Act:       

*  
    On August 4, 2010, our board of directors authorized management to repurchase up to 10 million shares of common stock on the open market. On
February 2, 2011, with no shares remaining under the August authorization, the board of directors increased the number of authorized shares to 10 million. Unless terminated or extended earlier by resolution of the board of directors, the
program will expire when the number of authorized shares has been repurchased.         For additional
information relating to our repurchases of common stock during the past three years, see Financial Condition, Liquidity and Capital Resources   Financing Activities   Share Repurchases contained in Part II, Item 7, of this Annual
Report on Form 10-K.      The following performance graph compares the cumulative total return to
shareholders on our common stock, assuming reinvestment of dividends, with similar returns for the Standard  
Poor s      500 Index and the Standard   Poor s      Aerospace   Defense Index, both of which include General Dynamics.   

General Dynamics
Annual Report
         
2010                        17   

Table of Contents  

ITEM 6.   SELECTED FINANCIAL
DATA        The following table presents selected historical financial data derived from the audited Consolidated Financial
Statements and other company information for each of the five years presented. This information should be read in conjunction with Management s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations and the audited
Consolidated Financial Statements and the Notes thereto.       

(a)  
    Return on sales is calculated as earnings from continuing operations divided by revenues.      

(b)  
    Debt-to-equity ratio is calculated as total debt divided by total equity as of year end.      

(c)  
    Book value per share is calculated as total equity divided by total outstanding shares as of year end.      

(d)  
    Operating working capital is calculated as accounts receivable, contracts in process (excluding  other contract costs  - see Note G to the
Consolidated Financial Statements in Item 8) and inventories less accounts payable, customer advances and deposits, and liabilities for salaries and wages.      

(e)  
    See Item 7, Management s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations, for a GAAP reconciliation of net cash
provided by operating activities to free cash flow from operations.      

(f)  
    See Item 7, Management s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations, for the calculation and related GAAP
reconciliation of return on invested capital.      

(g)  
    Sales per employee is calculated as revenues for the past 12 months divided by the average number of employees for the period.

18                        General
Dynamics Annual Report           2010   

Table of Contents  

(Dollars in millions, except per-share amounts or unless otherwise noted)   
   
         ITEM 7.  
MANAGEMENT S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS        For an overview of our
business groups, including a discussion of products and services provided, see the Business discussion contained in Part I, Item 1, of this Annual Report on Form 10-K.       BUSINESS ENVIRONMENT       The nation s engagement in combating threats
to U.S. national security around the world, coupled with the need to equip and modernize U.S. military forces, drives Department of Defense funding levels. As a defense contractor, our financial performance is influenced by the allocation and
prioritization of U.S. defense spending. For fiscal year (FY) 2011, the President requested $549 billion for the Department of Defense, including approximately $189 billion for procurement and research and development (R D). Procurement and
R D budgets, also known as investment accounts, provide the majority of our U.S. defense revenues.      As of
February 18, 2011, the Congress has not approved the President s FY 2011 budget request. Consequently, the U.S. government, including the Department of Defense, is operating under a continuing resolution (CR), which funds the Pentagon at
FY 2010 funding levels through early March 2011. For FY 2010, Congress appropriated $531 billion for the Defense Department, including approximately $185 billion for investment accounts. We anticipate that Congress will further consider the FY 2011
defense spending bill in conjunction with the expiration of the current CR. This consideration would likely result in either an extension of the CR, thereby keeping FY 2011 funding at FY 2010 levels, or the passage of a 2011 funding bill. In the
case of an extended CR, we are actively engaged with our customers and the Congress to ensure funding required for critical programs is not disrupted. In either case, budget expenditures generally lag congressional funding, and we expect that
expenditures applied toward programs over the next few years will be consistent with defense funding appropriated in recent years.      To fund the wars in Afghanistan and Iraq, defense budgets have also included supplemental funding. While some of our programs have received supplemental funds, most of our funding is now derived from base
budgets. For FY 2011, the President has requested approximately $159 billion in supplemental funding, including approximately 16 percent for investment accounts. Future-year spending plans forecast a reduction in supplemental funding levels
consistent with the administration s plan to gradually reduce troop levels in Iraq and Afghanistan.      For FY
2012, the President has requested total defense funding of $671 billion, including $118 billion in supplemental funding. The 2012 budget requests $188 billion for investment accounts. The Pentagon s five-year base spending plan, submitted with
the FY 2012 funding request, reflects low-single-digit growth in the near-term with growth slowing in later years. This plan incorporates approximately $78 billion of projected cuts when compared with the previous five-year plan. Given force
structure levels and current threat levels, the majority of those cuts are not manifested in investment accounts. Rather, investment accounts are projected to display low-single-digit growth over the five-year period, with procurement funding for
mature programs growing and R D funding for developmental programs declining over the period.   

In today s dynamic budget environment, the success of our U.S. defense business is
enhanced by the diversity of our exposure to different programs and customers within the budget, our insight into customer requirements stemming from our incumbency on core programs, our ability to evolve our products to address a fast-changing
threat environment, and our successful execution of the contracts we are awarded. While our nation s budget deficits will influence government spending decisions, we expect defense funding to continue to be driven by the following:   

support for the warfighter in the face of threats posed by an uncertain global security environment;      

the number of troops deployed globally, coupled with the overall size of the U.S. military;      

the need to reset and replenish equipment and supplies damaged and consumed in Iraq and Afghanistan since 2001;      

the need to maintain thousands of jobs that support the health of our nation s economy and      

the need to modernize that infrastructure to address the evolving requirements of modern-day warfare.      
  Given today s tenuous geopolitical landscape, governments around the world continue to fund weapons and equipment
modernization programs, leading to diverse defense export opportunities. We continue to pursue opportunities presented by international demand for military hardware and information technologies, both from our indigenous international operations and
through exports from our U.S. businesses. While the revenue potential can be significant, international defense budgets are subject to unpredictable issues of contract award timing, changing priorities and overall spending pressures. As we broaden
the customer base for our defense products around the world, we expect our international sales and exports to grow.   
         General Dynamics
Annual Report
         
2010                        19   

Table of Contents  

Business-jet market conditions continued to improve in 2010, in line with the broader economic recovery, particularly in the
large-cabin market. Our Aerospace group benefitted from increased flying hours, higher aircraft services activity, improved new-aircraft order interest and declining customer defaults. Barring any further economic turmoil, we believe the diversity
and duration of our business-jet backlog positions the Aerospace group for further improvement in 2011 and beyond. Continued investment in new aircraft products is expected to drive Aerospace s long-term growth, particularly as the group begins
producing its newest aircraft offerings, the G250 and the G650, in 2011. Similarly, we believe that aircraft-service revenues provide the group diversified exposure to aftermarket sales fueled by continued growth in the global installed business-jet
fleet.      In these dynamic markets, we are committed to creating shareholder value through innovative product
development, disciplined program execution and continuous improvement initiatives. Our solid performance is measured in our sustained revenue and earnings growth, margin improvement and efficient conversion of earnings into cash. Our record of
excellent cash-flow conversion has enabled us to execute our operational strategy while providing us the flexibility to deploy our capital to further enhance shareholder returns through acquisitions, payment of dividends and share repurchases.
      RESULTS OF OPERATIONS       The following discussion of our results of operations focuses on the material financial measures we use to evaluate our performance, including revenues, operating earnings and margins, cash flow, and orders
and backlog. A consolidated overview is followed by a more detailed review of operating performance for each of our business groups: Aerospace, Combat Systems, Marine Systems and Information Systems and Technology. For the Aerospace group, results
are analyzed with respect to specific lines of products and services, consistent with how the group is managed. For the defense business groups, the discussion is based on the types of products and services each group offers with supplemental
discussion of specific significant contracts and programs that drive the groups  results.      In the Aerospace
group, we recognize revenue using the percentage-of-completion method. As discussed further in the Application of Critical Accounting Policies section, sales contracts for new aircraft have two major phases: the manufacture of the  green 
aircraft and the aircraft s completion, which includes exterior painting and installation of customer-selected interiors and optional avionics. We record revenues on these contracts at two milestones: when green aircraft are delivered to and
accepted by the customer, and when the customer accepts final delivery of the aircraft. Revenues in the Aerospace group s aircraft outfitting and service businesses are recognized as work progresses or upon delivery of the service. Changes in
revenues in this group result from the number and mix of new aircraft deliveries (both green and outfitted), the progress toward completion of aircraft outfitting activities, the level of service activity during the period and the number of
pre-owned aircraft sold.      In general, operating earnings and margins in the Aerospace group are a function of the
prices we charge for our aircraft, our operational efficiency in manufacturing and outfitting the aircraft, and the mix of aircraft deliveries among the higher-margin large-cabin and lower-margin mid-cabin aircraft. Additional factors affecting the
group s earnings and margins include the volume and profitability of services work performed, the number and type of pre-owned aircraft sold, and the level of general and administrative costs incurred by the group, which include selling
expenses and R D costs.      In the defense business groups, the majority of the revenues are generated by
long-term government contracts. We account for revenues under these contracts using the percentage-of-completion method of accounting. Under this method, revenue is recognized as work progresses, either as products are produced and delivered or as
services are rendered. As a result, changes in revenues are generally discussed in terms of volume. Year-over-year variances attributed to volume indicate increases or decreases in revenues due to changes in production or construction activity
levels, delivery schedules or levels of services on individual contracts.      Operating earnings and margins in the
defense business groups are discussed in terms of changes in revenue volume, performance or contract mix (i.e., higher- vs. lower-margin work). Performance refers to changes in contract earnings rates during the term of the contract based on
revisions to estimates of profit at completion on individual contracts. These revisions result from increases or decreases to the estimated value of the contract or the estimated costs required to complete the contract. Contract mix can result in
higher or lower earnings and margins due to contract type (e.g., fixed-price/cost-reimbursable) or the phase of work (e.g., development/production) within those contracts. The following discussion of results provides additional disclosure to the
extent that a material or unusual event caused a change in the profitability of a contract (e.g., contract losses/claims).       

20                        General
Dynamics Annual Report           2010   

Table of Contents  

CONSOLIDATED OVERVIEW        REVIEW OF 2010 VS. 2009        
    General Dynamics  revenues
increased in 2010 compared with 2009, with higher revenues in the Aerospace, Marine Systems and Information Systems and Technology groups offset in part by lower Combat Systems revenues. Aerospace revenues improved primarily due to higher aircraft
services volume. Growing activity in Marine Systems  U.S. Navy ship programs resulted in increased revenues for the group in 2010. Increases across the Information Systems and Technology portfolio contributed to revenue growth in the group in
2010, particularly in the tactical communication systems and information technology services businesses. Revenues decreased in the Combat Systems group due primarily to reduced volume on U.S. military vehicle programs.   
  Our operating earnings growth significantly outpaced our sales growth in 2010. Each of our four business groups reported
earnings growth compared with 2009. Earnings performance was particularly strong in the Aerospace and Combat Systems groups, both of which realized significant operating leverage in 2010. In the Aerospace group, operating margins were up due to
improved pricing on aircraft services work and large-cabin aircraft deliveries, and the absence of pre-owned aircraft losses, which negatively impacted 2009 operating margins. Combat Systems  2010 margin expansion resulted from productivity
improvements across the group, particularly in the U.S. military vehicle business, and a favorable contract mix, including reduced engineering and development work. Operating margins were steady in the Marine Systems group and down slightly in the
Information Systems and Technology group due to a shift in contract mix. As a result, our overall operating margins increased by 70 basis points in 2010 compared with 2009.       REVIEW OF 2009 VS. 2008        
    In 2009, strong performance in
each of our defense businesses more than offset reduced business-jet deliveries in the Aerospace group, resulting in significant top-line revenue growth over 2008. The Combat Systems and Marine Systems groups generated double-digit revenue growth on
the strength of military vehicle and shipbuilding and repair programs. In the Information Systems and Technology group, increased volume in each of the group s U.S. operations drove the group s revenue growth. Revenues decreased in the
Aerospace group in 2009 following our decision to cut aircraft production and deliveries in response to a significant downturn in the business-jet market.      Our operating earnings increased slightly in 2009 over 2008 as earnings growth in each of our defense businesses was offset by reduced earnings in the Aerospace group. Overall, our operating margins
decreased by 100 basis points in 2009 compared with 2008. Operating margins were up significantly in the Marine Systems group due to strong program execution, while margins were steady in the Information Systems and Technology group and down in the
Combat Systems and Aerospace groups.       CASH FLOW    
  Cash flows from operations in 2010 exceeded net earnings for the
12   th    consecutive year. Net cash provided by operating activities
was $3.1 billion in 2008, $2.9 billion in 2009 and $3 billion in 2010. Over the three-year period, we deployed our cash to fund acquisitions and capital expenditures, repurchase our common stock, pay dividends and repay maturing debt. Our net debt,
debt less cash and equivalents and marketable securities, was $378 at year-end 2010 compared with   
         General Dynamics
Annual Report
         
2010                        21   

Table of Contents  

$1.2 billion at the end of 2009. This decrease in net debt was achieved after the following capital deployment activities: $1.2 billion of share repurchases, $631 of dividends paid, $508 of
company-sponsored research and development, $370 of capital expenditures, $335 of contributions to our retirement plans and $233 spent on acquisitions during the year.       BACKLOG AND ESTIMATED POTENTIAL CONTRACT VALUE    

Our total backlog, including funded and unfunded portions, was $59.6 billion at the end of 2010 compared with
$65.5 billion at year-end 2009. Strong orders across our defense businesses resulted in a book-to-bill ratio (orders divided by revenues) higher than 2009, despite increased revenues in 2010. Orders in our defense businesses were complemented by
improving order activity in the Aerospace group, particularly in the second half of the year.      The Aerospace
group s total backlog was $17.8 billion at the end of 2010, compared with $19.3 billion at year-end 2009. Aerospace funded backlog was $17.4 billion at the end of 2010 compared with $18.9 billion at the end of 2009. Aerospace funded backlog
represents aircraft orders for which we have definitive purchase contracts and deposits from the customer. Net orders, adjusted for customer defaults, increased sequentially each quarter in 2010. However, aircraft deliveries exceeded net orders in
2010, resulting in the backlog decline. The Aerospace unfunded backlog of $378 at the end of 2010 consists of agreements to provide future aircraft maintenance and support services.   
  The total backlog for our defense businesses decreased in 2010 to $41.8 billion at the end of the year, compared with $46.2
billion at the end of 2009. The defense backlog represents the estimated remaining sales value of work to be performed under firm contracts. Over half of the decline in our defense backlog during 2010 was in Marine Systems, which traditionally
receives large, multi-year awards and works down that backlog in subsequent periods. The funded portion of the defense backlog was $25.9 billion at the end of 2010. This includes items that have been authorized and appropriated by the Congress and
funded by the customer, as well as commitments by international customers that are similarly approved and funded by their governments. While there is no guarantee that future budgets and appropriations will provide funding for a given program, we
have included in the backlog only firm contracts we believe are likely to receive funding.      Our backlog does not
include work awarded under unfunded indefinite delivery, indefinite quantity (IDIQ) contracts, unexercised options associated with existing firm contracts or options to purchase new aircraft, which we refer to collectively as estimated potential
contract value.      Customers use IDIQ contracts for several reasons, including expanding the field of available
contractors to maximize competition under a given program or when they have not defined the exact timing and quantity of deliveries that will be required at the time the contract is executed. These agreements, which set forth the majority of the
contractual terms, including prices, are funded as delivery orders are placed. A significant portion of our estimated potential contract value is composed of multiple-award IDIQ contracts in which we are one of several companies competing for task
orders. We include only our estimate of the value we will receive under these arrangements. The estimated contract value also includes IDIQ contracts for which we have been designated as the sole-source supplier to design, develop, produce and
integrate complex products and systems over several years for the military or other government agencies. We believe our customers intend to fully implement these products and systems. Because the value of these arrangements is subject to the
customer s future exercise of an indeterminate quantity of delivery orders, we recognize these contracts in backlog only when they are funded.      Contract options in our defense businesses represent agreements to perform additional work beyond the products and services associated with firm contracts, if the customer exercises the option. These options
are negotiated in conjunction with a firm contract and provide the terms under which the customer may elect to procure additional units or services at a future date. Contract options in the Aerospace group represent options to purchase new aircraft
and long-term agreements with fleet customers. We recognize options in backlog when the customer exercises the option and establishes a firm order.      On December 31, 2010, the estimated potential contract value associated with these IDIQ contracts and contract options was approximately $21.8 billion, up significantly from $17.6 billion at the end of
2009. This represents our estimate of the potential value we will receive. The actual amount of funding received in the future may be higher or lower. The estimated potential contract value in the Combat Systems group doubled from year-end 2009,
while the Information Systems and Technology group s estimated potential contract value increased nearly 20 percent. We expect to realize this value over the next 10 to 15 years, reflecting continued demand for our products and services well
into the future.       OTHER INFORMATION       Net interest expense was $66 in 2008, $160 in 2009 and $157 in 2010. Additional debt issued in 2008 and 2009 resulted in the increase from 2008 to 2009. The decrease in 2010 was due largely to the repayment
of $700 of fixed-rate notes in the third quarter of 2010.   
      
  22                        General
Dynamics Annual Report           2010   

Table of Contents  

We expect net interest expense of approximately $135 to $140 in 2011, subject to capital deployment activities during the year.   
  Our effective tax rate was 31.2 percent in 2008, 31.5 percent in 2009 and 30.7 percent in 2010. The 2008 rate included a $35,
or approximately $0.09 per-share, benefit from the settlement of tax refund litigation, which reduced the 2008 tax rate by 100 basis points. We anticipate an effective tax rate of approximately 31 percent in 2011. For additional discussion of tax
matters, see Note E to the Consolidated Financial Statements.      In 2008, we entered into an agreement to sell our
Spanish nitrocellulose operation and recognized a pretax loss of $11 in discontinued operations in anticipation of the sale. The sale of this operation was completed in 2010. Our reported revenues exclude the revenues associated with this divested
business. We have presented the operating results of this business, along with the loss from the sale, as discontinued operations, net of income taxes.       REVIEW OF BUSINESS GROUPS        AEROSPACE    
   Review of 2010 vs. 2009        
    The Aerospace group s revenues increased in 2010 compared with 2009 due primarily to steady growth in aircraft services activity throughout the year. Aircraft manufacturing and outfitting revenues
remained consistent with 2009 levels, with an increase in manufacturing volume offset by reduced outfitting work. Aircraft manufacturing revenues increased 9 percent in 2010, the result of additional deliveries and a more favorable mix of green
Gulfstream aircraft. The decline in aircraft outfitting revenues was associated primarily with the group s completions work for other original equipment manufacturers (OEMs), reflecting decreased OEM production across the broader business-jet
market.      Aircraft services revenues, which include both Gulfstream and Jet Aviation s maintenance and repair
work, fixed-base operations and aircraft management services, increased 15 percent in 2010, reflecting the growing installed base of business-jet aircraft and increased utilization as the business-jet market recovers following the economic downturn.
Revenues from sales of pre-owned aircraft were down slightly from 2009.      The group s operating earnings
improved significantly in 2010 compared with 2009, with improvements in all areas of the group s portfolio. The components of the earnings growth were as follows:       

Aircraft manufacturing and outfitting   
      
  $  
   68    

Pre-owned aircraft   

40    

Aircraft services   

29    

SG A/other   

16    

Total increase in operating earnings   
      
  $  
    153    
           The group s aircraft manufacturing and outfitting earnings were up in 2010 compared with 2009 due to the increase in aircraft manufacturing volume, as well as improved pricing on large-cabin aircraft
and mix shift within large-cabin models. This increase was offset in part by reduced liquidated damages associated with fewer customer defaults. Margins for these activities were up 190 basis points compared with 2009.   
  Pre-owned aircraft earnings improved significantly from 2009, when the group wrote down the carrying value of its pre-owned
aircraft inventory. Pricing in the pre-owned market has improved since mid-2009, particularly for large-cabin aircraft, although inventories across the industry remain higher than historic norms. In 2010, the Aerospace group realized modest profits
on its pre-owned sales, took no pre-owned aircraft write-downs and ended the year with no pre-owned aircraft in inventory.      Consistent with the increased volume, aircraft services earnings continued to improve from 2009. Margins associated with aircraft services were up 70 basis points in 2010 due to improved marketplace pricing.
     The group s operating earnings in 2010 were also favorably impacted by the timing of R D expenditures
and the absence of severance costs associated with workforce reductions in 2009.      As a result of the factors
discussed above, the group s overall operating margins increased 250 basis points in 2010 compared with 2009.       Review of 2009 vs. 2008
       
    The Aerospace group s revenues decreased in 2009, the result of a decline in sales of Gulfstream aircraft that was offset in part by the addition of Jet Aviation, which we acquired in the fourth quarter
of 2008. We reduced Gulfstream s 2009 aircraft production, primarily in the group s mid-cabin   
         General Dynamics
Annual Report
         
2010                        23   

Table of Contents  

models, in response to the market downturn in late 2008. As a result, aircraft-manufacturing revenues decreased significantly in 2009 compared with 2008. Gulfstream aircraft-services revenues
were down in 2009 due to reduced flying hours and customer deferral of aircraft maintenance.      The group s
operating earnings declined in 2009 compared with 2008 due primarily to the factors noted above. The earnings decline associated with decreased Gulfstream aircraft deliveries was mitigated by cost-reduction initiatives, liquidated damages collected
on defaulted aircraft contracts, and the fact that the majority of the reduction in deliveries was in our lower-margin mid-cabin aircraft. As a result, aircraft manufacturing margins increased in 2009 over 2008 despite the decline in volume during
the year. Aircraft services earnings were steady, as the addition of Jet Aviation offset a decrease at Gulfstream. However, competitive marketplace pressures reduced margins. Operating earnings in 2009 were also negatively impacted by losses on
pre-owned aircraft inventories and severance costs associated with workforce reductions. Overall, the group s operating margins decreased 480 basis points in 2009 compared with 2008.       Backlog and Estimated Potential Contract Value    

The Aerospace group finished 2010 with a total backlog of $17.8 billion, of which $17.4 billion was funded.
The group booked the highest number of orders for new aircraft in 2010 since the introduction of the G650 in 2008. Customer demand improved throughout the year, with net orders, adjusted for customer defaults, improving sequentially in each quarter
of 2010. However, aircraft deliveries exceeded net orders in 2010, resulting in the backlog decline. We expect net order activity to remain strong in 2011. The group s large-cabin backlog remains well positioned, with an 18- to 24-month period
between customer order and aircraft delivery. While improving, conditions in the mid-cabin market remain difficult, though these aircraft represent a small share of the group s portfolio. Order activity has been further strengthened by the
group s newest aircraft models, the G650 and the G250. Both of these aircraft continue to perform well in flight testing and remain on track for 2011 aircraft certification. The G250 and the G650 are scheduled to enter service in 2011 and 2012,
respectively.      Over the past few years, the group s customer base has become increasingly diverse, both in
customer type and geographic region. Approximately two-thirds of the group s year-end backlog is composed of private companies and individual buyers, though we are seeing renewed interest from large public companies. While the installed base of
aircraft is predominately in North America, international customers comprise nearly 60 percent of the group s backlog, with growing order interest in emerging markets, particularly from the Asia-Pacific region.   
  Total backlog does not include options to purchase new aircraft or long-term agreements with fleet customers. These
arrangements totaled $1.4 billion at the end of 2010 and are included in estimated potential contract value.       2011 Outlook    
  We expect an increase of approximately 15 to 16 percent in the group s revenues in 2011 compared with 2010, the result of increased
large-cabin aircraft deliveries, including initial green deliveries of the G650, and continued growth in aircraft services activity. We expect the Aerospace group s margins to be in the mid- to high-15 percent range, down modestly from 2010,
due to reduced liquidated damages associated with fewer customer defaults and increasing service activity.       COMBAT SYSTEMS    
   Review of 2010 vs. 2009        
    The Combat Systems group s
revenues were down in 2010 compared with 2009 due to reduced volume in the group s U.S. and European military vehicle businesses. The decrease in the group s revenues consisted of the following:   

U.S. military vehicles   
      
  $  
      (600)  

Weapons systems and munitions   

6   

European military vehicles   

(173)  

Total decrease in revenues   
      
  $  
  (767)  

In the
group s U.S. military vehicle business, lower Mine-Resistant, Ambush-Protected (MRAP) vehicle production and reduced engineering work represented the majority of the decline in revenues from 2009. The group s deliveries of MRAP vehicles
have fluctuated over the past two years in response to the customer s urgent deployment needs. The reduction in activity on engineering programs related primarily to the 2009 cancellation of the manned ground vehicle portion of the Future
Combat Systems (FCS)   
      
  24                        General
Dynamics Annual Report           2010   

Table of Contents  

program and decreased volume on the Marine Corps  Expeditionary Fighting Vehicle (EFV). These declines were offset in part by increased volume on the group s foreign military sales
(FMS) contracts to provide light armored vehicles (LAVs) and tanks to international customers.      Revenues were
steady in the group s weapons systems and munitions businesses. Increased sales of axles, largely in the military market, and higher demand for the group s propellant products and munitions in Canada, were offset in part by lower armor kit
production and the completion of deliveries of detection systems that protect U.S. combat forces from improvised explosive devices (IEDs).      Revenues in the group s European military vehicle business decreased in 2010 as a result of the ramp-down of the Leopard tank program for the Spanish government and lower activity on the group s
Pandur and Piranha vehicle contracts for various international customers. Increased activity on other vehicle contracts, including the EAGLE vehicle for Germany, helped offset these decreases.   
  Despite the decline in revenues, the Combat Systems group s operating earnings increased slightly in 2010. Productivity
improvements across the group, particularly in the U.S. military vehicle business, and a favorable contract mix that included reduced engineering and development work resulted in significant margin improvement in 2010. The group s operating
margins increased 130 basis points in 2010 compared with 2009.       Review of 2009 vs. 2008    
   
    In 2009, the Combat Systems
group s revenues increased significantly compared with 2008 due to strong contributions from each of the group s businesses. In the group s U.S. military vehicle business, increased Stryker wheeled combat vehicle and Abrams main
battle tank volume was the primary contributor of the revenue growth. Revenues were up in the group s weapons systems and munitions businesses due to the acquisition of AxleTech International in December 2008, increased production of armor kits
and an increase in deliveries of Hydra-70 rockets. The group s European military vehicle business generated strong revenue growth in 2009 as a result of higher activity on several wheeled vehicle production programs.   
  The Combat Systems group s operating earnings grew in 2009, though at a lower rate than revenues, resulting in a 50
basis-point decrease in operating margins compared with 2008. The operating margins in 2008 were influenced by a favorable program mix in the U.S. military vehicle business.       Backlog and Estimated Potential Contract Value    

The Combat Systems group s total backlog was $11.8 billion at the end of 2010, down from $13.4 billion at
year-end 2009. Funded backlog decreased 5 percent in 2010 to $10.9 billion at year end. The group s backlog consists primarily of long-term production contracts that have scheduled deliveries through 2016.   
  The Army s Stryker wheeled combat vehicle program comprised $1.8 billion of the group s backlog at year end,
including the production of vehicles scheduled for delivery through 2012. The group received over $1.7 billion of Stryker orders in 2010, including awards for contractor logistics support, vehicle production and engineering services. Stryker orders
in 2010 also included awards for Stryker double-V-hulled vehicles, designed and developed in quick response to the customer s urgent deployment requirements.   
  The group s backlog at the end of 2010 included $1.7 billion for M1 Abrams main battle tank modernization and upgrade
programs. These programs include the M1A2 System Enhancement Package (SEP) under which we retrofit Abrams tanks with improved electronics, command-and-control capabilities and armor enhancements that are designed to improve the tanks 
effectiveness. The group continued work in 2010 on a multi-year contract awarded in 2008 to upgrade the remaining M1A1 Abrams tanks to the SEP configuration. Approximately half of the group s Abrams backlog at year end was for the SEP program.
In 2010, the group received awards from the Army totaling $380 for all Abrams-related programs.      The group s
backlog at year end also included approximately $400 under the MRAP program, largely for upgrade kits for previously delivered RG-31 vehicles, and $305 for the EFV program.   
  The Combat Systems group has several significant international military vehicle production contracts in backlog. The backlog
at the end of the year included:       

$1.9 billion for LAVs under several FMS contracts,      

$520 for the production of Pizarro Advanced Infantry Fighting Vehicles scheduled for delivery to the Spanish army through 2016,

$460 for Pandur vehicles for several international customers,      
         General Dynamics
Annual Report
         
2010                        25   

Table of Contents  

$215 from the Swiss government to provide Duro wheeled armored personnel vehicles,      

$200 for the design, integration and production of seven prototypes under the U.K. s Specialist Vehicle program, in addition to the integration
work being performed by the Information Systems and Technology group and      

$180 for a contract with the German government to provide EAGLE IV wheeled military vehicles.      
  The Combat Systems group s backlog at year end also included approximately $2.6 billion in weapons systems and
munitions programs. In 2010, the group received awards totaling approximately $275 for the production of Hydra-70 rockets. The group also received awards worth approximately $180 from the Canadian government to supply various calibers of ammunition,
$150 from the Army for armor for Stryker and Bradley vehicles and $75 from the Army for production of M2A1 machine guns.      Combat Systems backlog does not include approximately $4.6 billion of estimated potential contract value associated with the group s anticipated share of IDIQ contracts and unexercised options. The
group s estimated potential contract value doubled since year-end 2009 due to contracts awarded in 2010, including the Specialist Vehicle and Hydra-70 rocket programs.       2011 Outlook       We expect Combat Systems revenues to remain in the $9 billion range
in 2011 with growth in international vehicle contracts, steady volume on U.S. weapons and munitions programs, and a reduction in volume on some of the group s U.S. vehicle programs. We expect the group s operating margins to be
approximately 14 percent, down modestly from 2010 due to a shift in program mix.       MARINE SYSTEMS    
   Review of 2010 vs. 2009        
    The Marine Systems group s
revenues increased in 2010 compared with 2009 as growth in several U.S. Navy programs offset a decline in commercial ship construction. The increase in revenues consisted of the following:   

Multi-year Navy ship construction   
      
  $  
      170     

Other Navy ship design, construction, engineering and repair   

279     

Commercial ship construction   

(135)    

Total increase in revenues   
      
  $  
  314     
           The group s multi-year ship-construction programs for the U.S. Navy include Virginia-class submarines, DDG-51 and DDG-1000 destroyers, and T-AKE combat-logistics ships. The principal driver of revenue
growth in 2010 was increased activity on the Virginia-class program as the group continued to ramp toward construction of two submarines per year in 2011. The group delivered the seventh boat under the program in 2010 while construction continued on
the next five boats. Deliveries of the remaining 11 boats under contract are scheduled through 2018.      In our
surface combatant business, volume decreased on the DDG-51 Arleigh Burke program as the current multi-ship contract nears completion. Offsetting this decline was an increase in activity on the group s design and construction contract for the
first DDG-1000 Zumwalt-class destroyer. The remaining two DDG-51 destroyers under contract are scheduled for delivery in 2011 and 2012, and the first DDG-1000 delivery is scheduled in 2014.   
  Activity on the group s T-AKE program was down in 2010 as construction continued on the remaining four ships. The group
delivered the ninth and 10th ships in 2010, and deliveries of the last four ships are scheduled through 2012. In 2010, the group also began advanced design efforts for the Mobile Landing Platform (MLP) program.   
  In addition to these ship-construction programs, revenues were up significantly in 2010 on the group s engineering
programs, particularly work associated with the next-generation ballistic-missile submarine (SSBN). The group is performing initial concept studies, including design of a Common Missile Compartment for both the U.S. Navy and the Royal Navy of the
United Kingdom. The group s ship repair work has remained steady in 2010 following significant growth in 2009.   
  In 2010, the group completed construction on the final two ships of a five-ship commercial product-carrier contract. Given
the success of this program, the age of the fleet of Jones Act ships and environmental regulations that require double-hull tankers and impose emission control limits, we anticipate additional commercial shipbuilding opportunities as the economy
recovers.      The Marine Systems group s operating earnings increased in 2010 consistent with the increase in
revenues. Operating margins remained steady compared with 2009, though the group is undergoing a shift in contract mix. Activity on the group s destroyer programs is moving from the fixed-price DDG-51 program to the cost-reimbursable DDG-1000
contract, and the Virginia-class program is transitioning from the mature Block II contract to the Block III contract. Favorable performance on the T-AKE and commercial product carrier programs in 2010 helped offset this mix shift.   
      
  26                        General
Dynamics Annual Report           2010   

Table of Contents  

Review of 2009 vs. 2008        
    Revenues were up significantly in
2009 across the Marine Systems group. Increased activity on the Virginia-class program in preparation of starting construction of two submarines per year contributed almost two-thirds of the group s increase in 2009 revenues. Volume also
increased on the DDG-1000 and the group s engineering and repair programs for the Navy. Lower activity on the DDG-51 and T-AKE programs slightly offset the other volume increases in the group in 2009.   
  The Marine Systems group s operating earnings increased significantly in 2009. As a result of operational efficiencies
realized at each of its businesses, the group increased program earnings rates in 2009 on the Virginia-class, DDG-51, DDG-1000 and commercial product carrier programs. These improvements increased the group s overall margins by 70 basis points
in 2009, a significant improvement following a 100-basis point margin increase in 2008.       Backlog and Estimated Potential Contract Value

The Marine Systems group s backlog consists of long-term submarine and ship construction programs, as
well as numerous repair and engineering contracts. The group generally receives large contract awards that provide backlog for several years. For example, in 2008, the group received a $14 billion contract for the construction of eight
Virginia-class submarines to be delivered through 2018, increasing backlog to an all-time high of $26.4 billion at the end of 2008. Consistent with this historical pattern, as the group has performed on these multi-year contracts, the backlog has
decreased to $20.1 billion at year-end 2010. The group s funded backlog was $7.1 billion at the end of both 2009 and 2010.      The Virginia-class submarine program was the group s largest program in 2010 and is the largest contract in the group s backlog. The group s backlog at year end included $13.7 billion for 11
Virginia-class submarines. As the prime contractor on the Virginia-class program, we report the entire backlog and revenues associated with the program but share the construction activity and the earnings with our teaming partner.   
  Navy destroyer programs represent another significant component of the group s backlog. These include the Arleigh
Burke-class DDG-51 and Zumwalt-class DDG-1000 destroyer programs. The group s backlog at the end of 2010 included $855 for the ongoing design effort and construction of the first DDG-1000. In 2010, the group received approximately $420 in
orders under the DDG-1000 program, including continued engineering and support services, long-lead construction for the second ship and long-lead material for the third ship. The group expects to be awarded construction contracts for the second and
third DDG-1000 ships in 2011. At year end, the backlog also included approximately $220 for the remaining two DDG-51 destroyers under contract. The Navy plans to continue the DDG-51 program, and the group expects to receive an award for an
additional DDG-51 in 2011 following funding for long-lead material for this ship in 2010.      The Marine Systems
group s backlog at year end included approximately $965 for the four remaining ships under the Navy s T-AKE combat-logistics ship program. In 2010, we received construction contracts for the last two ships of the program. The year-end
backlog also included approximately $340 for the group s second ship under the Navy s Littoral Combat Ship (LCS) program, scheduled for delivery in 2012, and $95 for the MLP program. The Navy plans to build three MLP auxiliary support
ships, and the contract for construction of the first ship is scheduled to be awarded in 2011.      In addition, the
Marine Systems group s backlog at year end included approximately $3.9 billion for engineering, repair, overhaul and other services, including engineering and design efforts for the next-generation SSBN.   
   2011 Outlook       We expect the
Marine Systems group s revenues in 2011 to remain near 2010 levels as increased Virginia-class production and submarine engineering activity is offset by lower DDG-51, T-AKE and commercial volume. We expect the group s operating margins to
decline to the low-9 percent range due to the continued mix shift in ship-construction programs.   
         General Dynamics
Annual Report
         
2010                        27   

Table of Contents  

INFORMATION SYSTEMS AND TECHNOLOGY        Review
of 2010 vs. 2009        
    The Information Systems and
Technology group generated strong top-line growth in 2010, with over 5 percent organic growth. The increase in revenues over 2009 was driven by the group s tactical communication systems and information technology services businesses:

Tactical communication systems   
      
  $  
      421    

Information technology (IT) services   

342    

Intelligence, surveillance and reconnaissance (ISR) systems   

47    

Total increase in revenues   
      
  $  
  810    
           Revenues in the tactical communication systems business increased significantly in 2010 due to higher volume in battlefield communication programs, in particular the Warfighter Information
Network Tactical (WIN-T) mobile communication network, and ruggedized computing products. Revenues in the group s United Kingdom-based operations also increased in 2010 as work began on the demonstration phase of the U.K. Ministry of
Defence Specialist Vehicle program.      In the IT services business, volume increased on the group s IT support
and modernization programs for the intelligence community and the Network-Centric Solutions (NETCENTS) program, which provides network support for federal agencies. Revenues also increased in this business as a result of the Base Realignment and
Closure (BRAC) facility changes, including work on the New Campus East (NCE) contract for the National Geospatial-Intelligence Agency, and the Walter Reed National Military Medical Center relocation and Fort Belvoir Community Hospital outfitting for
the Army.      Revenues were up in 2010 compared with 2009 in the group s ISR business as a result of the
acquisition of Axsys Technologies, Inc., in the third quarter of 2009. The group also experienced growth in cyber-related programs across its businesses in 2010, including systems that prevent network attacks, increase situational awareness and
reduce network vulnerability.      The Information Systems and Technology group s operating earnings increased in
2010, although at a slightly lower rate than revenues, resulting in a modest decrease in margins compared with 2009. The reduction in margins resulted from a shift in the group s contract mix to include a growing proportion of IT services work.
      Review of 2009 vs. 2008        
    The Information Systems and
Technology group generated revenue growth in each of the group s market segments in 2009. Organic growth of more than 4 percent was augmented by acquisitions in the group s IT services and ISR businesses. Revenues increased on the WIN-T
program and ground-based satellite communications programs in the group s tactical communication business. In the IT services business, higher volume on several IT infrastructure and support contracts, including NCE and NETCENTS, accounted for
the increase in revenues. Growing levels of cyber security-related work and higher activity on several classified programs contributed to the growth in the group s ISR business.   
  Operating earnings increased in line with revenues in 2009, resulting in operating margins of 10.7 percent, consistent with
2008. Higher margins in the tactical communications and ISR businesses due to improved performance and a favorable shift in contract mix were offset by decreased margins in the IT services business.   
      Backlog and Estimated Potential Contract Value    

The Information Systems and Technology group received the highest level of orders in the group s history
in 2010, generating a book-to-bill ratio of nearly one-to-one. As a result, the group ended the year with a backlog of $9.8 billion after reporting record-level revenues in 2010. The group s backlog does not include approximately $15.2 billion
of estimated potential contract value associated with its anticipated share of IDIQ contracts and unexercised options. In 2010, funding under IDIQ contracts and options contributed over $4.3 billion to the group s backlog, or nearly 40 percent
of the group s orders. The estimated potential contract value in the Information Systems and Technology group increased nearly 20   
      
  28                        General
Dynamics Annual Report           2010   

Table of Contents  

percent from year-end 2009, due most notably to unexercised options associated with the U.K. Specialist Vehicle and combat and seaframe control systems for the Independence Class of ships under
the LCS program. When combined with backlog, the group s total estimated potential contract value increased by 8 percent over 2009 to $25 billion.      Unlike our other defense businesses, the Information Systems and Technology group s backlog consists of thousands of contracts that largely have to be reconstituted each year with new program and task
order awards. While the group has relatively few large-scale, long-term programs, there are several significant contracts that provide a solid foundation for the business.   
  Programs for the U.K. Ministry of Defence comprised approximately $835 of the group s backlog at the end of 2010, most
notably the BOWMAN and the Specialist Vehicle programs. The group has successfully fielded the BOWMAN communications system, the secure digital voice and data communications system for the U.K. armed forces, and is now performing maintenance and
long-term support and enhancement activities for the program. In 2010, the Ministry of Defence awarded the group a contract for the demonstration phase of its Specialist Vehicle program. In this phase, the group will manage the design, integration
and production of seven prototype vehicles. Work and the backlog under the contract are shared with the Combat Systems group, including a significant portion of the future vehicle production effort.   
  The group s backlog at year-end 2010 included approximately $645 for the Army s WIN-T program. Information Systems
and Technology is the prime contractor on this battlefield communications network designed to provide warfighters with fast, secure, mobile command-and-control capabilities. In 2010, the group received approximately $405 of awards for WIN-T,
bringing the total program value to $2.7 billion. The backlog does not include $920 of estimated potential contract value for the WIN-T program awarded under an IDIQ format.   
  Approximately $340 of the group s backlog at year end was for the Canadian Maritime Helicopter Project (MHP). Under the
MHP program, the group is providing integrated mission systems, training and support for 28 state-of-the-art helicopters that are intended to replace Canada s aging fleet of marine helicopters.   
  The Information Systems and Technology group s backlog at year end also included approximately $225 for the Common
Hardware/Software III (CHS-3) program to provide commercial and ruggedized computers, network equipment and software to the U.S. armed forces and other U.S. federal agencies. In 2010, the group received over $500 in orders under this program,
bringing the total contract value to more than $2.4 billion.      The group s backlog at the end of 2010 included
approximately $960 for a number of facility infrastructure and support programs, including NCE, NETCENTS, and the Walter Reed National Military Medical Center and Mark Center facilities.   
  In addition to these programs, the group received a number of significant contract awards in 2010, including the following:

$240 from the National Aeronautics and Space Administration (NASA) for the Space Network Ground Segment Sustainment (SGSS) project to modernize the
ground segment of the satellite communications network used by NASA.      

$190 for the Warfighter Field Operations Customer Support (FOCUS) program to provide support for the Army s live, virtual and constructive
training operations.      

$150 from Austal USA for design, integration and testing of combat and seaframe control systems for one LCS. The contract includes options for nine
additional ships that are scheduled to be exercised over the next five years and are included in the group s estimated potential contract value.      

$110 for the Army s Joint Tactical Radio System (JTRS) Handheld, Manpack, Small Form Fit (HMS) radio program, bringing the total contract value to
over $700.      

$80 from the National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration to design, manufacture and install antennas for Geostationary Operational Environmental
Satellites-R (GOES-R).      

$55 from the Department of Homeland Security s U.S. Computer Emergency Readiness Team (US-CERT) to analyze and reduce cyber threats and
vulnerabilities.         Information Systems and Technology was awarded several significant IDIQ
contracts during 2010, including the following:       

One of 46 awards from the Federal Bureau of Investigation (FBI) under the Information Technology Supplies and Support Services (ITSSS) program to
provide technical services and engage in developmental projects and programs. The program has a maximum potential value of $30 billion among all awardees over eight years.      

One of 11 awards under the Defense Intelligence Agency s (DIA) Solutions for the Information Technology Enterprise (SITE) program. The program has
a maximum potential value of $6.6 billion among all awardees over five years.      

One of five awards under the Missile Defense Agency Engineering and Support Services (MiDAESS) program to provide systems engineering and testing
services. The program has a maximum potential value of $1.6 billion among all awardees over five years.      

One of three awards under the Federal Aviation Administration s (FAA) System Engineering 2020 Research and Development/Mission Analysis Support
program. Our award under this program has a maximum potential value of $1.2 billion over 10 years.      
         General Dynamics
Annual Report
         
2010                        29   

Table of Contents  

One of 14 awards from the National Geospatial-Intelligence Agency to develop satellite-based intelligence-gathering technology for the Total
Application Services for Enterprise Requirements (TASER) program. The program has a maximum potential value of $1 billion among all awardees over five years.      

One of three awards under the Navy s Common Afloat Local Area Network Infrastructure (CALI) program to provide ships and submarines with secure
hardware, software and networking equipment. The program has a maximum potential value of $500 among all awardees.      

One of five contracts to support several of the Army s healthcare construction projects, including modernization of current Army medical
facilities and transition to newly constructed facilities. The program has a maximum potential value of over $400 among all awardees over four years.          2011 Outlook       We expect revenues in the Information Systems and Technology group
to grow approximately 3 to 5 percent in 2011. We expect each of the group s businesses to contribute to the growth, particularly in the areas of IT support services for intelligence and federal civilian customers, and tactical communication
systems. The group s operating margins are expected to decline slightly but remain above 10 percent based on the projected contract mix in 2011.       CORPORATE       Corporate results consist primarily of compensation expense for stock
options. Corporate operating expenses totaled $75 in 2008, $87 in 2009 and $83 in 2010. (See Note O to the Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information regarding our stock options.) We expect 2011 Corporate operating expenses of
approximately $90 to $95.       FINANCIAL CONDITION, LIQUIDITY AND CAPITAL RESOURCES    
  In the mid-1990s, General Dynamics embarked on a strategy of disciplined capital deployment, generating strong cash flow to enable a series
of acquisitions designed to grow the company beyond our core platform businesses. This has resulted in a larger, more diversified company incorporating new products and technologies that meet the needs of an expanded customer base. We continue to
place a strong emphasis on cash generation and capital allocation and deployment. This focus has afforded us the financial flexibility to deploy our cash resources to generate shareholder value while preserving a strong balance sheet to position us
for future opportunities.       

(a)  
    Net debt is calculated as total debt less cash and equivalents and marketable securities.      

(b)  
    Debt-to-equity ratio is calculated as total debt divided by total equity.      

(c)  
    Debt-to-capital ratio is calculated as total debt divided by the sum of total debt plus total equity.      
  Our cash balances are invested primarily in time deposits from highly rated banks, commercial paper rated A1/P1 or higher
and repurchase agreements with direct obligations of the Spanish government as collateral. Our marketable securities balances are invested primarily in term deposits and high-quality corporate, municipal and U.S. government-sponsored debt
securities. The marketable securities have an average duration of two months and an average credit rating of AA. We have not incurred any material losses associated with these investments.   
  The following is a discussion of our major operating, investing and financing activities for each of the past three years, as
classified on the Consolidated Statement of Cash Flows.   
      
  30                        General
Dynamics Annual Report           2010   

Table of Contents  

OPERATING ACTIVITIES       We generated cash from operating activities of $3.1 billion in 2008, $2.9 billion in 2009 and $3 billion in 2010. In all three years, the operating cash flow was attributed primarily to net earnings. In 2008
and 2009, increasing levels of customer deposits, particularly in the Aerospace group, reduced our operating working capital (OWC) and increased our operating cash flow. In addition, 2009 cash from operating activities reflected the collection of
approximately $150 from the Czech Republic after we signed a renegotiated contract to provide Pandur II wheeled vehicles.       Termination of A-12 Program.  As discussed further in Note N to the Consolidated Financial Statements, litigation on the A-12 program termination has been ongoing since 1991. If, contrary to our
expectations, the default termination ultimately is sustained and the government prevails on its recovery theories, we, along with The Boeing Company, could collectively be required to repay the U.S. government as much as $1.4 billion for progress
payments received for the A-12 contract, plus interest, which was approximately $1.5 billion at December 31, 2010. If this were the outcome, we would owe half of the total, or approximately $1.4 billion pretax. Our after-tax cash obligation
would be approximately $725. We believe we have sufficient resources, including access to capital markets, to pay such an obligation, if required.       INVESTING ACTIVITIES       We used $3.7 billion in 2008, $1.4 billion
in 2009 and $408 in 2010 for investing activities. The primary uses of cash in investing activities were business acquisitions, capital expenditures and purchases of marketable securities. Investing activities also include proceeds received from the
sale of assets and marketable securities.       Business Acquisitions.  In 2008, we completed five acquisitions
for a total of $3.2 billion. In 2009, we completed two acquisitions for $811. In 2010, we completed three acquisitions for $233. We financed these acquisitions using cash on hand and commercial paper. (See Note B to the Consolidated Financial
Statements for additional information regarding the acquisitions.)       Capital Expenditures.  Capital
expenditures were $490 in 2008, $385 in 2009 and $370 in 2010. The decrease in 2009 and 2010 compared with 2008 resulted from the completion of several major facility improvement projects in the Aerospace and Marine Systems groups. During 2010, the
Aerospace group announced a new $500, seven-year facilities expansion project at the group s Savannah campus. We expect capital expenditures of approximately $550 in 2011, less than 2 percent of revenues.   
   Marketable Securities.  As a result of lower market interest rates, we have expanded our investments in
available-for-sale and held-to-maturity securities in recent years to generate additional return. Net sales/maturities of these securities were $17 in 2008 compared with net purchases of $235 in 2009 and net sales/maturities of $115 in 2010.
      FINANCING ACTIVITIES       We used $718 in 2008, $806 in 2009 and $2.2 billion in 2010 for financing activities. Our financing activities include issuances and repayments of debt, payment of dividends and repurchases of common stock.
Net cash from financing activities also includes proceeds received from stock option exercises.       Debt Proceeds,
Net.  In 2008, we issued $904 of commercial paper, primarily to fund acquisitions during the year. During that year we also repaid $500 of fixed-rate notes, $150 of senior notes and $20 of term debt on their scheduled maturity dates. We issued $1
billion of five-year fixed-rate notes in December 2008 and another $750 of two-year fixed-rate notes in June 2009. We used the proceeds from the fixed-rate notes for general corporate purposes, including working capital requirements, capital
expenditures and to term out our commercial paper borrowings. In August 2010, we repaid $700 of fixed-rate notes on their scheduled maturity date.      We ended 2010 with no commercial paper outstanding, and our total debt balance was down approximately $660 from 2009, resulting in a debt-to-equity ratio of 24.1 percent, down 7 percentage points from
year-end 2009. We have approximately $2 billion in bank credit facilities that have not been drawn upon. These facilities provide backup liquidity to our commercial paper program. We also have an effective shelf registration on file with the
Securities and Exchange Commission.      The next material repayment of long-term debt is $750 of fixed-rate notes
scheduled to mature in July of 2011. As we approach the maturity date, we will determine whether to repay these notes with cash on hand or refinance the obligation. (See Note J to the Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information
regarding our debt obligations, including scheduled debt maturities.)       Dividends.  Our
board of directors declared an increased quarterly dividend of $0.42 per share on March 3, 2010, the 13   th    consecutive annual increase. The board had previously increased the quarterly dividend to $0.38 per share in March 2009 and $0.35 per share in March 2008.   
   Share Repurchases.  Our board of directors has historically supported management s tactical repurchase of our
shares, typically in repurchase authorizations of 10 million-share increments. We repurchased 20 million shares on the open market in 2008, 3.6 million shares in 2009 and 18.9 million shares in 2010. As a result, we reduced our shares outstanding by
3.5 percent in the past year and by 8 percent since 2008. On February 2, 2011, the board authorized management to repurchase up to an additional 10 million shares, about 3 percent of our total shares outstanding. We expect to continue to
repurchase shares as part of our capital deployment activities in the future.   
         General Dynamics
Annual Report
         
2010                        31   

Table of Contents  

NON-GAAP MANAGEMENT METRICS       We emphasize the efficient conversion of net earnings into cash and the deployment of that cash to maximize shareholder returns. In 2010, for the 12   th    consecutive year, net cash provided by operating activities exceeded net earnings. We deployed this cash to complete
acquisitions, continue our trend of annual dividend increases and repurchase our outstanding shares. As described below, we use free cash flow and return on invested capital (ROIC) to measure our ability to efficiently convert net earnings into cash
and to earn a return on the deployment of that capital.       Free Cash Flow.  We define free cash flow from
operations as net cash provided by operating activities less capital expenditures. We believe free cash flow from operations is a useful measure for investors, because it portrays our ability to generate cash from our core businesses for purposes
such as repaying maturing debt, funding business acquisitions, repurchasing our common stock and paying dividends. We use free cash flow from operations to assess the quality of our earnings and as a performance measure in evaluating management. The
following table reconciles the free cash flow from operations with net cash provided by operating activities, as classified on the Consolidated Statement of Cash Flows:   
   
    Over the past five years, we have generated free cash flow from operations well in excess of our earnings from continuing operations during the period, an average 106 percent conversion rate. We expect to
continue to generate funds in excess of our short- and long-term liquidity needs. We believe we have adequate funds on hand and sufficient borrowing capacity to execute our financial and operating strategy.   
   Return on Invested Capital.  We believe ROIC is a useful measure for investors, because it reflects our ability to
generate returns from the capital we have deployed in our operations. We use ROIC to evaluate investment decisions and as a performance measure in evaluating management. We define ROIC as net operating profit after taxes divided by the sum of the
average debt and shareholders  equity for the year. Net operating profit after taxes is defined as earnings from continuing operations plus after-tax interest and amortization expense. As a result of our continued focus on cash generation and
disciplined capital deployment, ROIC has grown 190 basis points since 2006. ROIC for 2006 through 2010 is calculated as follows:       

32                        General
Dynamics Annual Report           2010   

Table of Contents  

ADDITIONAL FINANCIAL INFORMATION        OFF-BALANCE SHEET ARRANGEMENTS       On December 31, 2010, other
than operating leases, we had no material off-balance sheet arrangements, including guarantees; retained or contingent interests in assets transferred to unconsolidated entities; derivative instruments indexed to our stock and classified in
shareholders  equity on the Consolidated Balance Sheet; or variable interests in entities that provide us with financing, liquidity, market-risk or credit-risk support or engage with us in leasing, hedging or research and development services.
      CONTRACTUAL OBLIGATIONS AND COMMERCIAL COMMITMENTS    
  The following tables present information about our contractual obligations and commercial commitments on December 31, 2010:   

(a)  
    Includes scheduled interest payments. See Note J to the Consolidated Financial Statements for discussion of long-term debt.

(b)  
    Includes amounts committed under legally enforceable agreements for goods and services with defined terms as to quantity, price and timing of delivery.
This amount includes $17.2 billion of purchase orders for products and services to be delivered under firm government contracts under which we have full recourse under normal contract termination clauses.      

(c)  
    Represents other long-term liabilities on our Consolidated Balance Sheet, including the current portion of these liabilities. The projected timing of
cash flows associated with these obligations is based on management's estimates, which are based largely on historical experience. This amount also includes all liabilities under our defined-benefit retirement plans, as discussed in Note P. See Note
P for information regarding the plan assets available to satisfy these liabilities. Retirement plan assets and liabilities are presented net on the Consolidated Balance Sheet on a plan-by-plan basis.      

*  
    See Note N to the Consolidated Financial Statements for discussion of letters of credit and aircraft trade-in options.      
   APPLICATION OF CRITICAL ACCOUNTING POLICIES       Management s Discussion and Analysis of our Financial Condition and Results of Operations is based on our Consolidated Financial Statements, which have been prepared in accordance with U.S. generally
accepted accounting principles (GAAP). The preparation of financial statements in accordance with GAAP requires that we make estimates and assumptions that affect the reported amounts of assets and liabilities and the disclosure of contingent assets
and liabilities at the date of the financial statements, as well as the reported amounts of revenues and expenses during the reporting period. On an ongoing basis, we evaluate our estimates, including those related to long-term contracts and
programs, goodwill and other intangible assets, income taxes, pensions and other post-retirement benefits, workers  compensation, warranty obligations, pre-owned aircraft inventory, and contingencies and litigation. We base our estimates on
historical experience and on various other assumptions that we believe to be reasonable under the circumstances. The results of these estimates form the basis for making judgments about the carrying values of assets and liabilities that are not
readily available from other sources. Actual results may differ from these estimates under different assumptions or conditions.      We believe the following policies are critical and require the use of significant business judgment in their application:   
   Revenue Recognition.  We account for revenues and earnings in our defense and aerospace businesses using the
percentage-of-completion method of accounting. Under the percentage-of-completion method, we recognize contract revenue as the work progresses, either as the products are produced and delivered or as services are rendered, as applicable. We estimate
profit as the difference between total estimated revenue and total estimated cost of a contract and recognize that profit   
         General Dynamics
Annual Report
         
2010                        33   

Table of Contents  

over the remaining life of the contract based on either input measures (e.g., costs incurred) or output measures (e.g., contract milestones or units delivered), as appropriate to the
circumstances. Where an interim output measure is reliably determinable and representative of progress toward completion, we use such output measures. Otherwise, we use input measures.   
  We generally measure progress toward completion on contracts in our defense businesses based on the proportion of costs
incurred to date relative to total estimated costs at completion or based on unit deliveries under the contract. Our contracts for the manufacture of business-jet aircraft usually provide for two major phases: the manufacture of the
 green  aircraft (i.e., before exterior painting and installation of customer-selected interiors and optional avionics) and its completion. We record revenue at two contractual milestones: when green aircraft are delivered to, and accepted
by, the customer and when the customer accepts final delivery of the fully outfitted aircraft. We do not recognize revenue at green delivery unless (1) a contract has been executed with the customer and (2) the customer can be expected to
satisfy its obligations under the contract, as evidenced by the receipt of deposits from the customer and other factors.      We include revisions of estimated profits on contracts in earnings under the reallocation method rather than the cumulative catch-up method. Under the reallocation method, the impact of revisions in
estimates is recognized prospectively over the remaining contract term, while under the cumulative catch-up method such impact would be recognized immediately. If a revised estimate of contract profitability reveals an anticipated loss on the
contract, we recognize the loss in the period it is identified. Anticipated losses cover all costs allocable to the contracts, including general and administrative expenses on government contracts.   
  We use the reallocation method because we believe the majority of factors that typically result in changes in estimates of
total contract revenue, total costs or the extent of progress toward completion on our long-term contracts affect both the period in which the change is identified and future periods. We believe these changes generally reflect expectations as to
future performance and, therefore, the reallocation method is the method that best matches our revenues and earnings in the periods in which they are earned. While we have applied this method consistently for more than 30 years, most contractors use
the cumulative catch-up method.      The percentage-of-completion method of accounting involves the use of various
estimating techniques to project costs at completion, and in some cases includes estimates of recoveries asserted against the customer for changes in specifications or other disputes. Contract estimates involve various assumptions and projections
relative to the outcome of future events over a period of several years, including future labor productivity and availability, the nature and complexity of the work to be performed, the cost and availability of materials, the impact of delayed
performance, the availability and timing of funding from the customer, and the timing of product deliveries. These estimates are based on our best judgment. A significant change in one or more of these estimates could affect the profitability of one
or more of our contracts. We review our contract estimates regularly to assess revisions in contract values and estimated costs at completion and reflect changes in estimates in the current and future periods under the reallocation method.
     We recognize revenue arising from claims either as income or as an offset against a potential loss only when the
amount of the claim can be estimated reliably and its realization is probable. In evaluating these criteria, we consider the contractual/legal basis for the claim, the cause of any additional costs incurred, the reasonableness of those costs and the
objective evidence available to support the claim. We recognize revenue from award or incentive fees when there is a basis to reasonably estimate the amount of the fee. Estimates of award or incentive fees are based on actual award experience and
anticipated performance.       Goodwill.  Since 1995, we have acquired 57 businesses at a total cost of
approximately $21 billion, including three in 2010. In connection with these acquisitions, we have recognized $12.6 billion of goodwill. Goodwill represents the purchase price paid in excess of the fair value of identifiable net tangible and
intangible assets acquired. Goodwill is not amortized but is subject to an impairment test on an annual basis and when circumstances indicate that an impairment is more likely than not.   
  The test for goodwill impairment is a two-step process that requires a significant level of estimation by management,
particularly the estimate of the fair value of our reporting units. These estimates require the use of judgment. We estimate the fair value of our reporting units based on the discounted projected cash flows of the underlying operations. This
requires numerous assumptions, including the timing of work embedded in our backlog, our performance and profitability under our contracts, our success in securing future business and the appropriate interest rate used to discount the projected cash
flows. This discounted cash flow analysis is corroborated by  top-down  analyses, including a market assessment of our enterprise value. Beyond the annual impairment test, we review for factors on a quarterly basis that may lead us to
perform a goodwill impairment test, such as a significant adverse change in the business climate for one of our reporting units or a decision to dispose of a reporting unit or a significant portion of a reporting unit. We have recorded no goodwill
impairment to date and do not anticipate any reasonably possible circumstances that would lead to an impairment in the foreseeable future. The fair value of each of our reporting units on December 31, 2010, substantially exceeded its carrying
value.       Commitments and Contingencies.  We are subject to litigation and other legal proceedings arising
either out of the ordinary course of our business or under provisions relating to the protection of the environment. Estimating liabilities and costs associated with these matters requires the use of judgment. We record a charge against earnings
when a liability associated with claims or pending or threatened litigation matters is probable and when our exposure is reasonably estimable. The ultimate resolution of our exposure related to these matters may change as further facts and
circumstances become known.   
      
  34                        General
Dynamics Annual Report           2010   

Table of Contents  

Deferred Contract Costs.  Certain costs
incurred in the performance of our government contracts are recorded under GAAP but are not currently allocable to contracts. Such costs include a portion of our estimated workers  compensation obligations, other insurance-related assessments,
pension and other post-retirement benefits, and environmental expenses. These costs will become allocable to contracts generally after they are paid. We have elected to defer (or inventory) these costs in contracts in process until they can be
allocated to contracts and recovered from the government. We expect to recover these costs through ongoing business, including existing backlog and probable follow-on contracts. This business base includes numerous contracts for which we are the
sole source or one of two suppliers on long-term defense programs. We regularly assess the probability of recovery of these costs under our current and probable follow-on contracts. This assessment requires that we make assumptions about future
contract costs, the extent of cost recovery under our contracts and the amount of future contract activity. These estimates are based on our best judgment. If the backlog in the future does not support the continued deferral of these costs, the
profitability of our remaining contracts could be adversely affected.       Retirement Plans.  Our
defined-benefit pension and other post-retirement benefit costs and obligations depend on a series of assumptions and estimates. The key assumptions relate to the interest rates used to discount estimated future liabilities and projected long-term
rates of return on plan assets. We determine the discount rate used each year based on the rate of return currently available on a portfolio of high-quality fixed-income investments with a maturity that is consistent with the projected benefit
payout period. We determine the long-term rate of return on assets based on historical returns and the current and expected asset allocation strategy. These estimates are based on our best judgment, including consideration of current and future
market conditions. In the event a change in any of the assumptions is warranted, future pension and post-retirement benefit cost could increase or decrease. For the impact of hypothetical changes in the discount rate and expected long-term rate of
return on plan assets for our commercial pension and post-retirement benefit plans, see Note P to the Consolidated Financial Statements.      As discussed under Deferred Contract Costs, our contractual arrangements with the U.S. government provide for the recovery of benefit costs for our government retirement plans. We have elected to defer
recognition of the benefit costs that cannot currently be allocated to contracts to provide a better matching of revenues and expenses. Accordingly, the impact on the retirement benefit cost for these plans that results from annual changes in
assumptions does not impact our future earnings either positively or negatively.      We believe that our judgment is
applied consistently and produces financial information that fairly depicts the results of operations for all periods presented.          ITEM 7A.   QUANTITATIVE AND QUALITATIVE DISCLOSURES ABOUT MARKET RISK     
  We are exposed to market risk, primarily from foreign currency exchange rates, interest rates, commodity prices and investments. See Note M
to the Consolidated Financial Statements contained in Part II, Item 8, of this Annual Report on Form 10-K for a discussion of these risks. The following discussion quantifies the market risk exposure arising from hypothetical changes in foreign
currency exchange rates and interest rates.       Foreign Currency Risk    
  We had $1.8 billion in notional forward foreign exchange contracts outstanding on December 31, 2009, and $4.2 billion on
December 31, 2010. The increase in the amount of outstanding foreign currency forward contracts is due to significant international contract awards in 2010. A 10 percent unfavorable exchange rate movement in our portfolio of foreign currency
forward contracts would have resulted in the following incremental pretax gains and losses:       
    This exchange-rate sensitivity relates primarily to changes in the U.S. dollar/Canadian dollar, euro/Canadian dollar and euro/pound Sterling exchange rates. We believe these hypothetical recognized and
unrecognized gains and losses would be offset by corresponding losses and gains in the remeasurement of the underlying transactions being hedged. We believe these forward contracts and the offsetting underlying commitments, when taken together, do
not create material market risk.       Interest Rate Risk       Our financial instruments subject to interest rate risk include fixed-rate long-term debt obligations and variable-rate commercial paper. On December 31, 2010, we had $3.1 billion par value of
fixed-rate debt. We had no commercial paper outstanding on December 31, 2010. Our fixed-rate debt obligations are not putable, and we do not trade these securities in the market. A 10 percent unfavorable interest rate movement would not have a
material impact on the fair value of our debt obligations.       Investment Risk    
  Our investment policy allows for purchases of fixed-income securities with an investment-grade rating and a maximum maturity of one year. On
December 31, 2010, we held $2.8 billion in cash and equivalents and marketable securities. Our marketable securities have an average duration of two months and an average credit rating of AA. Given that our investments had an aggregate weighted
average maturity of less than one month on December 31, 2010, a 10 percent unfavorable interest rate movement would have no immediate material impact on the value of the holdings. Historically, we have not experienced material gains or losses
on these instruments due to changes in interest rates or market values.   
         General Dynamics
Annual Report
         
2010                        35   

Table of Contents  

ITEM 8.   FINANCIAL
STATEMENTS AND SUPPLEMENTARY DATA         CONSOLIDATED STATEMENT OF EARNINGS    
   
    The accompanying
Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements are an integral part of this statement.   
      
  36                        General
Dynamics Annual Report           2010   

Table of Contents  

CONSOLIDATED BALANCE SHEET    
   
    The accompanying Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements are an integral part of this statement.   
         General Dynamics
Annual Report
         
2010                        37   

Table of Contents  

CONSOLIDATED STATEMENT OF CASH FLOWS    
   
    The accompanying Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements are an integral part of this statement.   
      
  38                        General
Dynamics Annual Report           2010   

Table of Contents  

CONSOLIDATED STATEMENT OF SHAREHOLDERS  EQUITY    
   
    The
accompanying Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements are an integral part of this statement.   
         General Dynamics
Annual Report
         
2010                        39   

Table of Contents  

       (Dollars in millions, except per-share amounts or unless otherwise noted)         
       NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS    
    A. SUMMARY OF SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES    
   Organization.  Our businesses are organized into four groups: Aerospace, which produces Gulfstream aircraft, performs aircraft
outfitting and refurbishments for other manufacturers, and provides aircraft services; Combat Systems, which designs and manufactures combat vehicles, weapons systems and munitions; Marine Systems, which designs and constructs surface ships and
submarines; and Information Systems and Technology, which provides communications and information technology products and services. Our primary customers are the U.S. military, other U.S. government organizations, the armed forces of other nations,
and a diverse base of corporate and individual buyers of business aircraft.       Basis of Consolidation and
Classification.  The Consolidated Financial Statements include the accounts of General Dynamics Corporation and our wholly owned and majority-owned subsidiaries. We eliminate all inter-company balances and transactions in the Consolidated
Financial Statements.      Consistent with defense industry practice, we classify assets and liabilities related to
long-term production contracts as current, even though some of these amounts are not expected to be realized within one year. In addition, some prior-year amounts have been reclassified among financial statement accounts to conform to the
current-year presentation.       Use of Estimates.  U.S. generally accepted accounting principles (GAAP) require
that we make a number of estimates and assumptions. These estimates and assumptions affect the reported amounts of assets and liabilities and the disclosure of contingent assets and liabilities at the date of the financial statements, as well as the
reported amounts of revenues and expenses during the reporting period. We base our estimates on historical experience and on various other assumptions that we believe are reasonable under the circumstances. Actual results could differ from these
estimates.       Revenue Recognition.  We account for revenues and earnings in our defense and aerospace
businesses using the percentage-of-completion method of accounting. Under the percentage-of-completion method, we recognize contract revenue as the work progresses, either as the products are produced and delivered or as services are rendered, as
applicable. We estimate the profit on a contract as the difference between the total estimated revenue and the total estimated costs of a contract and recognize that profit over the contract term. We determine progress toward completion on
production contracts based on either input measures, such as costs incurred, or output measures, such as units delivered, as appropriate. Our contracts for the manufacture of business-jet aircraft usually provide for two major phases: the
manufacture of the  green  aircraft and its completion. Completion includes exterior painting and installation of customer-selected interiors and optional avionics. We record revenue at two milestones: when green aircraft are delivered to,
and accepted by, the customer and when the customer accepts final delivery of the fully outfitted aircraft. For services contracts, we recognize revenues as the services are rendered. We apply earnings rates to all contract costs, including general
and administrative (G A) expenses on government contracts, to determine revenues and operating earnings.      We
review earnings rates regularly to assess revisions in contract values and estimated costs at completion. We apply the effect of any changes in earnings rates resulting from these assessments prospectively rather than under the cumulative catch-up
method. Under the prospective (or reallocation) method, the impact of revisions in estimates is recognized over the remaining contract term, while under the cumulative catch-up method, such impact would be recognized immediately. We charge any
anticipated losses on contracts to earnings as soon as they are identified. Anticipated losses cover all costs allocable to the contracts, including G A expenses on government contracts. We recognize revenue arising from claims either as income
or as an offset against a potential loss only when the amount of the claim can be estimated reliably and its realization is probable.       Discontinued Operations.  In 2008, we entered into an agreement to sell our Spanish nitrocellulose operation. The sale of this operation was completed in 2010. The financial statements reflect the
results of operations of this business in discontinued operations (the revenues of this business have been eliminated, and its net losses are reported separately below earnings from continuing operations). Net cash used by discontinued operations
consists primarily of cash used by the operating activities of this business prior to the sale.       Research and
Development Expenses.  Research and development (R D) expenses consisted of the following:       
    R D expenses are included in operating costs and expenses in the Consolidated Statement of Earnings in the period in which they are incurred. Customer-sponsored R D expenses are charged directly to
the related contract.   
      
  40                        General
Dynamics Annual Report           2010   

Table of Contents  

The Aerospace group has cost-sharing
arrangements with some of its suppliers that enhance the group s internal development capabilities and offset a portion of the financial risk associated with the group s product development efforts. These arrangements explicitly state that
supplier contributions are for reimbursements of costs we incur in the development of new aircraft models and technologies, and we retain substantial rights in the products developed under these arrangements. We record amounts received from these
cost-sharing arrangements as a reduction of R D expenses. We have no obligation to refund any amounts received under the agreement regardless of the outcome of the development effort. Under the terms of each agreement, payments received from
suppliers for their share of the costs are typically based on milestones and are recognized as earned when we achieve a milestone event.       Net Interest.  Net interest expense consisted of the following:       
     Cash and Equivalents and Investments in Debt and Equity Securities.  We consider securities with a maturity of three months or less to be cash equivalents. We report our investments in
available-for-sale securities at fair value. Changes in the fair value of available-for-sale securities are recognized as a component of accumulated other comprehensive income within shareholders  equity on the Consolidated Balance Sheet. We
report our held-to-maturity securities at amortized cost. The interest income on these securities is a component of our net interest expense in the Consolidated Statement of Earnings. We had marketable securities and other investments totaling $482
on December 31, 2009, and $325 on December 31, 2010. These investments are included in other current and noncurrent assets on the Consolidated Balance Sheet (see note D). We had no trading securities at the end of either period.
     The contractual arrangements with some of our international customers require us to maintain some of the advance
payments made by our customers and apply them only to our activities associated with these contracts. These advances totaled approximately $245 on December 31, 2010.   
   Long-lived Assets.  We review long-lived assets, including intangible assets subject to amortization, for impairment
whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying amount of the asset may not be recoverable. Impairment losses, where identified, are determined as the excess of the carrying value over the estimated fair value of the
long-lived asset. We assess the recoverability of the carrying value of assets held for use based on a review of projected undiscounted cash flows. If an asset is held for sale, our assessment considers the estimated fair value less cost to sell.
     We review goodwill and indefinite-lived intangible assets for impairment annually or when circumstances indicate
that an impairment is more likely than not by applying a fair-value-based test. Goodwill represents the purchase price paid in excess of the fair value of identifiable net tangible and intangible assets acquired in a business combination. We apply a
two-step impairment test to first identify potential goodwill impairment for each reporting unit and then measure the amount of goodwill impairment loss, if necessary. We completed the required annual goodwill impairment test during the fourth
quarter of 2010 and did not identify any impairment. For a summary of our goodwill by reporting unit, see Note B.   
   Subsequent Events.  We have evaluated material events and transactions that have occurred after December 31, 2010,
and concluded that no subsequent events have occurred that require adjustment to or disclosure in this Form 10-K.   

    B. ACQUISITIONS, INTANGIBLE ASSETS AND GOODWILL    
  In 2010, we acquired three businesses for an aggregate of $233 in cash:       Combat Systems    

A business that demilitarizes, incinerates and disposes of munitions, explosives and explosive wastes in an environmentally safe and efficient manner
(on May 12).          Information Systems and Technology    

A provider of software for military mission planning and execution (on January 8).      

A U.K. based-company that designs and manufactures sensor and optical surveillance systems for military and security applications (on June 22).
        In 2009, we acquired two businesses in the Information Systems and Technology group for an
aggregate of $811 in cash:       

An information technology services business that performs work for our classified customers (on January 26).      

A company that designs and manufactures high-performance electro-optical and infrared (EO/IR) sensors and systems and multi-axis stabilized cameras (on
September 2).      
         General Dynamics
Annual Report
         
2010                        41   

Table of Contents  

In 2008, we acquired five businesses for an aggregate of $3.2 billion in cash:   
   Aerospace    

A company that performs aircraft completions and refurbishments for business jets and commercial aircraft, aircraft support services, and management
and fixed-base operations (FBO) services for a broad global customer base (on November 5).          Combat Systems

A global manufacturer and supplier of highly engineered drivetrain components and aftermarket parts for heavy-payload military and commercial customers
(on December 19).          Marine Systems    

A marine and industrial electrical company specializing in electrical apparatus installation, maintenance, troubleshooting and repair (on
July 23).          Information Systems and Technology    

A business that produces advanced filtering technologies and broadband power amplifiers for tactical communications applications for military and other
government customers (on February 29).      

A leading provider of high-end healthcare technology solutions, including data management, analytics, decision support and process automation, that
support both U.S. federal government agencies and commercial healthcare organizations (on July 22).         We funded each of the above acquisitions using cash on hand. The operating results of these businesses have been included with our reported results since the respective closing dates of the acquisitions. The
purchase prices of these businesses have been allocated to the estimated fair value of net tangible and intangible assets acquired, with any excess purchase price recorded as goodwill.   
  Intangible assets consisted of the following:   

*  
    Consist of acquired backlog and probable follow-on work and related customer relationships.      
  The amortization lives (in years) of our intangible assets on December 31, 2010, were as follows:   
   
    We amortize intangible assets on a straight-line basis unless the pattern of usage of the benefits indicates an alternate method is more representative of the usage of the asset. Amortization expense was
$146 in 2008, $218 in 2009 and $224 in 2010. We expect to record annual amortization expense over the next five years as follows:       

42                        General
Dynamics Annual Report           2010   

Table of Contents  

The changes in the carrying amount of goodwill
by reporting unit during 2009 and 2010 were as follows:       

*  
    Consists primarily of adjustments for foreign currency translation.      

    C. EARNINGS PER SHARE       We compute basic earnings per share using net earnings for the period and the weighted average number of common shares outstanding during the period. Diluted earnings per share incorporates the additional
shares issuable upon the assumed exercise of stock options and the release of restricted shares. Basic and diluted weighted average shares outstanding were as follows (in thousands):   

D. FAIR VALUE OF FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS    
  Our financial instruments include cash and equivalents, marketable securities and other investments; accounts receivable and accounts
payable; short- and long-term debt; and derivative financial instruments. We did not have any significant non-financial assets or liabilities measured at fair value on December 31, 2009 or 2010.   
  Fair value is defined as the price that would be received to sell an asset or paid to transfer a liability in the principal
or most advantageous market in an orderly transaction between marketplace participants. Various valuation approaches can be used to determine fair value, each requiring different valuation inputs.   
  The following hierarchy classifies the inputs used to determine fair value into three levels:   

Level 1   quoted prices in active markets for identical assets or liabilities;      

Level 2   inputs, other than quoted prices, observable by a marketplace participant either directly or indirectly and

Level 3   unobservable inputs significant to the fair value measurement.      
  The carrying values of cash and equivalents, accounts receivable and payable, and short-term debt (commercial paper) on the
Consolidated Balance Sheet approximate their fair value. The following tables present the fair values of our other financial assets and liabilities on December 31, 2009 and 2010, and the basis for determining their fair values:   

(a)  
    Determined under a market approach using valuation models that incorporate observable inputs such as interest rates, bond yields and quoted prices for
similar assets and liabilities.      
 
         General Dynamics
Annual Report
         
2010                        43   

Table of Contents  

E. INCOME TAXES        Income Tax Provision       We calculate our provision for federal, state and
international income taxes based on current tax law. The reported tax provision differs from the amounts currently receivable or payable because some income and expense items are recognized in different time periods for financial reporting purposes
than for income tax purposes. The following is a summary of our net provision for income taxes for continuing operations:       

*  
    The provision for state and local income taxes that is allocable to U.S. government contracts is included in operating costs and expenses in the
Consolidated Statement of Earnings and, therefore, not included in the provision above.         The
reconciliation from the statutory federal income tax rate to our effective income tax rate follows:       
     Deferred Tax Assets/(Liabilities)       The tax effects of temporary differences
between reported earnings and taxable earnings consisted of the following:       

*  
    Includes a deferred tax asset of $947 on December 31, 2009, and $1,250 on December 31, 2010, related to the amounts recorded in accumulated
other comprehensive income to recognize the funded status of our retirement plans. See Notes L and P for further discussion.         Our net deferred tax liability was included on the Consolidated Balance Sheet as follows:       
    One of our deferred tax liabilities results from our participation in the Capital Construction Fund (CCF). The CCF is a program, established by the U.S. government and administered by the Maritime
Administration, that affects the timing of a portion of our tax payments. The program supports the acquisition, construction, reconstruction or operation of U.S. flag merchant marine vessels. It allows us to defer federal and state income taxes on
earnings derived from eligible programs as long as the funds are deposited and used for qualified activities. Unqualified withdrawals are subject to taxation plus interest. The CCF is collateralized by qualified assets as defined by the Maritime
Administration. On December 31, 2010, we had invested $682 of U.S. government accounts receivable in the CCF.   
      
  44                        General
Dynamics Annual Report           2010   

Table of Contents  

On December 31, 2010, we had net operating
and capital loss carryforwards of $763, which begin to expire in 2013, and R D and investment tax credit carryforwards of $148, which begin to expire in 2011.   
  Earnings from continuing operations before income taxes included foreign income of $524 in 2008, $573 in 2009 and $640 in
2010. We intend to reinvest indefinitely the undistributed earnings of some of our non-U.S. subsidiaries. On December 31, 2010, we had approximately $1.5 billion of earnings from these non-U.S. subsidiaries that had not been remitted to the
United States. Should these earnings be distributed, a portion would be treated as dividends under U.S. tax law and thus subject to U.S. federal income tax at the statutory rate of 35 percent, but would generate partially offsetting foreign tax
credits.      We believe it is more likely than not that we will generate sufficient taxable income in future periods
to realize our deferred tax assets, subject to valuation allowances recognized.       Tax Uncertainties    
  We periodically assess our liabilities and contingencies for all periods open to examination by tax authorities based on the latest available
information. Where we believe there is more than a 50 percent chance that our tax position will not be sustained, we record our best estimate of the resulting tax liability, including interest, in the Consolidated Financial Statements. We include
any interest or penalties incurred in connection with income taxes as part of income tax expense for financial reporting purposes.      On November 27, 2001, we filed a refund suit in the U.S. Court of Federal Claims, titled General Dynamics v. United States, for the years 1991 to 1993. We added the years 1994 to 1998 to the litigation
on June 23, 2004. The suit sought recovery of refund claims that were disallowed by the Internal Revenue Service (IRS) at the administrative level. On December 30, 2005, the court issued its opinion regarding one of the matters in the
case. The court held that we could not treat the A-12 contract as complete for federal income tax purposes in 1991, the year the contract was terminated. (See Note N for more information regarding the A-12 contract.) On the other issues in the case,
we reached a settlement in 2008 with the U.S. Department of Justice acting on behalf of the United States. As a result of the settlement, we reduced our tax provision in the second quarter of 2008 by $35, or $0.09 per share. In the fourth quarter of
2008, we received a refund of $45, including taxable interest, and the court dismissed the case.      In the third
quarter of 2009, we reached agreement with the IRS on the examination of our federal income tax returns for 2005 and 2006. The resolution of this audit had no material impact on our results of operations, financial condition, cash flows or effective
tax rate. With the completion of this audit, the IRS has examined all of our consolidated federal income tax returns through 2006.      The IRS began its examination of our 2007 to 2009 tax returns in the fourth quarter of 2009, and we expect this examination to conclude in 2011. The IRS has selected General Dynamics to participate in its
Compliance Assurance Process (CAP), a real-time audit, for 2010 and future years. The 2010 CAP audit began in the second quarter. We have recorded liabilities for tax uncertainties for all years that remain open to review. We do not expect the
resolution of tax matters for these years to have a material impact on our results of operations, financial condition, cash flows or effective tax rate.      Based on all known facts and circumstances and current tax law, we believe the total amount of unrecognized tax benefits on December 31, 2010, is not material to our results of operations, financial
condition or cash flows. We also believe that the total amount of unrecognized tax benefits on December 31, 2010, if recognized, would not have a material impact on our effective tax rate. We further believe that there are no tax positions for
which it is reasonably possible that the unrecognized tax benefits will significantly increase or decrease over the next 12 months, producing, individually or in the aggregate, a material effect on our results of operations, financial condition or
cash flows.   

    F. ACCOUNTS RECEIVABLE       Accounts receivable represent amounts billed and currently due from customers and consisted of the following:       
    Receivables from non-U.S. government customers include $1.5 billion related to long-term production programs for the Spanish government. The scheduled payment terms for some of these receivables extend
beyond the next year. Other than these amounts, we expect to collect substantially all of the December 31, 2010, accounts receivable balance during 2011.   
         General Dynamics
Annual Report
         
2010                        45   

Table of Contents  

G. CONTRACTS IN PROCESS       Contracts in process represent recoverable costs and, where applicable, accrued profit related to long-term contracts that have been inventoried until the customer is billed, and consisted of the following:
      
    Contract costs consist primarily of labor and material costs and related overhead and G A expenses. Contract costs also include estimated contract recoveries for matters such as contract changes,
negotiated settlements and claims for unanticipated contract costs. We record revenue associated with these matters only when the amount of recovery can be estimated reliably and realization is probable. Assumed recoveries for these items were not
material on December 31, 2009 or 2010.      Other contract costs represent amounts that are not currently
allocable to government contracts, such as a portion of our estimated workers  compensation obligations, other insurance-related assessments, pension and other post-retirement benefits, and environmental expenses. These costs will become
allocable to contracts generally after they are paid. We expect to recover these costs through ongoing business, including existing backlog and probable follow-on contracts. This business base includes numerous contracts for which we are the sole
source or are one of two suppliers on long-term U.S. defense programs. However, if the backlog in the future does not support the continued deferral of these costs, the profitability of our remaining contracts could be adversely affected. We expect
to bill substantially all of our year-end 2010 contracts-in-process balance, with the exception of these other contract costs, during 2011.   

    H. INVENTORIES       Our inventories represent primarily commercial aircraft components and are stated at the lower of cost or net realizable value. Work-in-process represents largely labor, material and overhead costs
associated with aircraft in the manufacturing process and is based primarily on the estimated average unit cost of the units in a production lot. Raw materials are based primarily on the first-in, first-out method. We record pre-owned aircraft
acquired in connection with the sale of new aircraft at the lower of the trade-in value or the estimated net realizable value. Inventories consisted of the following:       

I. PROPERTY, PLANT AND EQUIPMENT, NET    
  Property, plant and equipment are carried at historical cost, net of accumulated depreciation. The major classes of property, plant and
equipment were as follows:       

*  
    Our government customers provide certain facilities; we do not include these facilities above.      
  We depreciate most of our assets using the straight-line method and the remainder using accelerated methods. Buildings and
improvements are depreciated over periods up to 50 years. Machinery and equipment are depreciated over periods up to 30 years.   
      
  46                        General
Dynamics Annual Report           2010   

Table of Contents  

J. DEBT       Debt consisted of the following:       
     Fixed-rate Notes       On December 31, 2010, we had outstanding $3.1 billion
aggregate principal amount of fixed-rate notes. The fixed-rate notes are fully and unconditionally guaranteed by several of our 100-percent-owned subsidiaries. We have the option to redeem the notes prior to their maturity in whole or in part at 100
percent of the principal plus any accrued but unpaid interest and applicable make-whole amounts. We repaid $700 of the fixed-rate notes on the scheduled maturity date in August. See Note R for condensed consolidating financial statements.
      Commercial Paper    
  On December 31, 2010, we had no commercial paper outstanding, but we maintain the ability to access the market. We have approximately $2
billion in bank credit facilities that provide backup liquidity to our commercial paper program. These credit facilities consist of a $975 multi-year facility expiring in December 2011 and a $1 billion multi-year facility expiring in July 2013.
These facilities are required by rating agencies to support the A1/P1 rating of our commercial paper issuances. We may renew or replace, in whole or in part, these credit facilities prior to their expiration. Our commercial paper issuances and the
bank credit facilities are guaranteed by several of our 100-percent-owned subsidiaries. Additionally, a number of our international subsidiaries have available local bank credit facilities aggregating approximately $1.4 billion.   
   Other       On December 31,
2010, other debt consisted primarily of debt assumed in connection with acquired businesses and from recent capital investments.      The aggregate amounts of scheduled maturities of our debt for the next five years are as follows:       
 
  Our financing arrangements contain a number of customary covenants and restrictions. We were in compliance with all material
covenants on December 31, 2010.   

    K. OTHER LIABILITIES       A summary of significant other liabilities by balance sheet caption follows:       

(a)  
    Consists primarily of dividends payable, environmental remediation reserves, warranty reserves, liabilities of discontinued operations and
insurance-related costs.      

(b)  
    Consists primarily of liabilities for warranty reserves and workers  compensation.      
  See Note E for further discussion of deferred tax balances and Note P for further discussion of retirement benefits.
  
         General Dynamics
Annual Report
         
2010                        47   

Table of Contents  

L. SHAREHOLDERS  EQUITY        Authorized Stock.  Our authorized capital stock consists of 500 million shares of $1 per share par value common stock and 50 million shares of $1 per share par value preferred stock. The
preferred stock is issuable in series, with the rights, preferences and limitations of each series to be determined by our board of directors.       Shares Issued and Outstanding.  We had 481,880,634 shares of common stock issued on December 31, 2009 and 2010. We had 385,704,691 shares of common stock outstanding on December 31, 2009 and
372,052,313 shares of common stock outstanding on December 31, 2010. No shares of our preferred stock were outstanding on either date. The only changes in our shares outstanding during 2010 resulted from shares issued under our equity
compensation plans (see Note O for further discussion) and share repurchases in the open market. In 2010, we repurchased 18.9 million shares at an average price of $67 per share. On February 2, 2011, our board of directors authorized our
management to repurchase up to an additional 10 million shares, about 3 percent of our total shares outstanding.       Dividends per Share.  Dividends declared per share were $1.40 in 2008, $1.52 in 2009 and $1.68 in 2010.       Accumulated Other Comprehensive Income.  Accumulated other comprehensive income (loss) (AOCI) consisted of the following:   

(b)  
    We recognize an asset or liability on the balance sheet for the full funded status of our defined-benefit retirement plans. The difference between the
cumulative benefit cost recognized and the full funded status of these plans is recorded directly to AOCI, net of tax. See Note P for further discussion.      

    M. DERIVATIVE INSTRUMENTS AND HEDGING ACTIVITIES    
  We are exposed to market risk, primarily from foreign currency exchange rates, interest rates, commodity prices and investments. We may use
derivative financial instruments to hedge some of these risks as described below. We do not use derivatives for trading or speculative purposes.   
   Foreign Currency Risk       Our
foreign currency exchange rate risk relates to receipts from customers, payments to suppliers and inter-company transactions denominated in foreign currencies. To the extent possible, we include terms in our contracts that are designed to protect us
from this risk. We periodically enter into derivative financial instruments, principally foreign currency forward purchase and sale contracts with terms of less than three years. These instruments are designed to minimize our risk by fixing, or
limiting the adverse impact on, the amount of firmly committed and forecasted foreign currency-denominated payments, receipts and inter-company transactions related to our business and operational financing activities.   
   Interest Rate Risk       Our
financial instruments subject to interest rate risk include fixed-rate long-term debt obligations and variable-rate commercial paper. However, the risk associated with these instruments is not material.   
   Commodity Price Risk       We are
subject to risk of rising labor and commodity prices, primarily on long-term fixed-price contracts. To the extent possible, we include terms in our contracts that are designed to protect us from this risk. Some of the protective terms included in
our contracts are considered derivatives but are not accounted for separately because they are clearly and closely related to the host contract. We have not entered into any material commodity hedging contracts but may do so as circumstances
warrant. We do not believe that changes in labor or commodity prices will have a material impact on our results of operations or cash flows.   
   Investment Risk       Our
investment policy allows for purchases of fixed-income securities with an investment-grade rating and a maximum maturity of one year. On December 31, 2010, we held $2.8 billion in cash and equivalents and marketable securities. Our marketable
securities have an average duration of two months and an average credit rating of AA. Historically, we have not experienced material gains or losses on these instruments due to changes in interest rates or market values.   
      
  48                        General
Dynamics Annual Report           2010   

Table of Contents  

Hedging Activities    
  We had $1.8 billion in notional forward foreign exchange contracts outstanding on December 31, 2009, and $4.2 billion on
December 31, 2010. The increase in the amount of outstanding foreign currency forward contracts is due to significant international contract awards in 2010. We recognize derivative financial instruments on the Consolidated Balance Sheet at fair
value (see Note D). The fair value of these derivative contracts consisted of the following:       
    We had no material derivative financial instruments designated as fair value or net investment
hedges on December 31, 2009 or 2010.      We record changes in the fair value of derivative financial instruments
in operating costs and expenses in the Consolidated Statement of Earnings or in AOCI within shareholders  equity on the Consolidated Balance Sheet depending on whether the derivative is designated and qualifies for hedge accounting. Gains and
losses related to derivatives that qualify as cash flow hedges are deferred in AOCI until the underlying transaction is reflected in earnings. We adjust derivative financial instruments not designated as cash flow hedges to market value each period
and record the gain or loss in the Consolidated Statement of Earnings. The gains and losses on these instruments generally offset losses and gains on the assets, liabilities and other transactions being hedged. Gains and losses resulting from hedge
ineffectiveness are recognized in the Consolidated Statement of Earnings for all derivative financial instruments, regardless of designation.      Net gains and losses recognized in earnings and AOCI, including gains and losses related to hedge ineffectiveness, were not material in 2010. We do not expect the amount of gains and losses in AOCI that will
be reclassified to earnings in 2011 to be material.       Foreign Currency Financial Statement Translation    
  We translate foreign-currency balance sheets from our international business units  functional currency (generally the respective local
currency) to U.S. dollars at the end-of-period exchange rates, and earnings statements at the average exchange rates for each period. The resulting foreign currency translation adjustments are a component of AOCI.   
  We do not hedge the fluctuation in reported revenues and earnings resulting from the translation of these international
operations  income statements into U.S. dollars. The impact of translating our international operations  revenues and earnings into U.S. dollars was not material to our results of operations in each of the past three years. In addition,
the effect of changes in foreign exchange rates on non-U.S. cash balances was not material in each of the past three years.   

    N. COMMITMENTS AND CONTINGENCIES        Litigation        Termination of A-12 Program.  In January 1991, the U.S.
Navy terminated the A-12 aircraft contract for default. The A-12 contract was a fixed-price incentive contract for the full-scale development and initial production of the Navy s carrier-based Advanced Tactical Aircraft. We and McDonnell
Douglas, the contractors, were parties to the contract with the Navy. (McDonnell Douglas is now owned by The Boeing Company.) Both contractors had full responsibility to the Navy for performance under the contract, and both are jointly and severally
liable for potential liabilities arising from the termination. As a consequence of the termination for default, the Navy demanded that the contractors repay $1.4 billion in unliquidated progress payments. The Navy agreed to defer collection of
that amount pending a resolution by the court or a negotiated settlement.      Over more than 19 years of litigation,
the trial court (the U.S. Court of Federal Claims) and appeals court (the Court of Appeals for the Federal Circuit) have issued multiple rulings, some in favor of the government and others in favor of the contractors. On May 3, 2007, the trial
court issued a decision upholding the default termination. The court did not, however, award any money judgment to the government. On June 2, 2009, a three-judge panel of the appeals court affirmed the trial court s decision, and on
November 24, 2009, the appeals court denied the contractors  petitions for rehearing. On September 28, 2010, the U.S. Supreme Court granted the contractors  petition for review as to one issue   whether the government can
maintain its default claim against the contractors while invoking the state-secrets privilege to deny the contractors a defense to that claim. Oral arguments were presented on January 18, 2011. The contractors contend that the government should
not be permitted to pursue its default claim after stripping the contractors of their superior knowledge defense to that claim by invoking the state-secrets privilege. Additionally, apart from the state-secrets issue, and even if the Supreme Court
ultimately were to rule in the government s favor on that issue, we continue to believe that there are significant legal obstacles to the government s ability to collect any amount from the contractors given that no court has ever entered
a money judgment in favor of the government.   
         General Dynamics
Annual Report
         
2010                        49   

Table of Contents  

If, contrary to our expectations, the default
termination is ultimately sustained and the government prevails on its recovery theories, the contractors could collectively be required to repay the government as much as $1.4 billion for progress payments received for the A-12 contract, plus
interest, which was approximately $1.5 billion on December 31, 2010. This would result in a liability to us of half of the total, or approximately $1.4 billion pretax. Our after-tax charge would be approximately $815, or $2.14 per share, to be
recorded in discontinued operations. Our after-tax cash cost would be approximately $725. We believe we have sufficient resources to satisfy our obligation if required.   
   Other.  Various claims and other legal proceedings incidental to the normal course of business are pending or
threatened against us. These matters relate to such issues as U.S. government investigations and claims, the protection of the environment, asbestos-related claims and employee-related matters. The nature of litigation is such that we cannot predict
the outcome of these matters. However, based on information currently available, we believe any potential liabilities in these proceedings, individually or in the aggregate, will not have a material impact on our results of operations, financial
condition or cash flows.       Environmental       We are subject to and affected by a variety of federal, state, local and foreign environmental laws and regulations. We are directly or indirectly involved in environmental investigations or remediation at
some of our current and former facilities, and at third-party sites that we do not own but where we have been designated a Potentially Responsible Party (PRP) by the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency or a state environmental agency. Based on
historical experience, we expect that a significant percentage of the total remediation and compliance costs associated with these facilities will continue to be allowable contract costs and, therefore, reimbursed by the U.S. government.   
  As required, we provide financial assurance for certain sites undergoing or subject to investigation or remediation. We
accrue environmental costs when it is probable that a liability has been incurred and the amount can be reasonably estimated. Where applicable, we seek insurance recovery for costs related to environmental liability. We do not record insurance
recoveries before collection is considered probable. Based on all known facts and analyses, as well as current U.S. government policies relating to allowable contract costs, we do not believe that our liability at any individual site, or in the
aggregate, arising from such environmental conditions, will be material to our results of operations, financial condition or cash flows. We also do not believe that the range of reasonably possible additional loss beyond what has been recorded would
be material to our results of operations, financial condition or cash flows.       Minimum Lease Payments    
  Total rental expense under operating leases was $230 in 2008 and $258 in both 2009 and 2010. Operating leases are primarily for facilities
and equipment. Future minimum lease payments due during the next five years are as follows:       
     Other    
   Letters of Credit.  In the ordinary course of business, we have entered into letters of credit and other similar arrangements with
financial institutions and insurance carriers totaling approximately $1.6 billion on December 31, 2010. From time to time in the ordinary course of business, we guarantee the payment or performance obligations of our subsidiaries arising under
certain contracts. We are aware of no event of default that would require us to satisfy these guarantees.   
   Government Contracts.  As a government contractor, we are subject to U.S. government audits and investigations relating
to our operations, including claims for fines, penalties, and compensatory and treble damages. Based on currently available information, we believe the outcome of such ongoing government disputes and investigations will not have a material impact on
our results of operations, financial condition or cash flows.       Aircraft Trade-ins.  In connection with
orders for new aircraft in funded contract backlog, our Aerospace group has offered options to some customers to trade in aircraft as partial consideration in their new-aircraft transaction. These trade-in commitments are structured to establish the
fair market value of the trade-in aircraft at a date generally 120 or fewer days preceding delivery of the new aircraft to the customer. At that time, the customer is required to either exercise the option or allow its expiration. Any excess of the
pre-established trade-in price above the fair market value at the time the new aircraft is delivered is treated as a reduction of revenue in the new-aircraft sales transaction. Fair market value trade-in options remain outstanding in connection with
aircraft in the group s backlog.   
      
  50                        General
Dynamics Annual Report           2010   

Table of Contents  

Labor Agreements.  Approximately one-fifth
of our employees are represented by labor unions or work councils under 55 company-negotiated agreements. A number of these agreements expire within any given year. Historically, we have been successful at renegotiating successor agreements without
any material disruption of operating activities. We expect to renegotiate the terms of nine collective agreements in 2011, covering approximately 2,400 employees. We do not expect that the renegotiations will, either individually or in the
aggregate, have a material impact on our results of operations, financial condition or cash flows.       Product
Warranties.  We provide warranties to our customers associated with certain product sales. We record estimated warranty costs in the period in which the related products are delivered. The warranty liability recorded at each balance sheet date is
generally based on the number of months of warranty coverage remaining for products delivered and the average historical monthly warranty payments. Warranty obligations incurred in connection with long-term production contracts are accounted for
within the contract estimates at completion (EACs). Our other warranty obligations, primarily for business-jet aircraft, are included in other current liabilities and other liabilities on the Consolidated Balance Sheet.   
  The changes in the carrying amount of warranty liabilities for each of the past three years were as follows:   

*  
    Includes warranty liabilities assumed in connection with acquisitions, foreign exchange translation adjustments and reclassifications.

O. EQUITY COMPENSATION PLANS        Equity Compensation Overview       We have various equity compensation plans for
employees, as well as for non-employee members of the board of directors. These include the General Dynamics Corporation 2009 Equity Compensation Plan (Equity Compensation Plan) and the 2009 General Dynamics United Kingdom Share Save Plan (U.K.
Plan).      The purpose of the Equity Compensation Plan is to provide an effective means of attracting, retaining and
motivating directors, officers and key employees, and to provide them with incentives to enhance our growth and profitability. Under the Equity Compensation Plan, awards may be granted to officers, employees or non-employee directors in common
stock, options to purchase common stock, restricted shares of common stock, participation units or any combination of these.      Stock options may be granted either as incentive stock options, intended to qualify for capital gain treatment under Section 422 of the Internal Revenue Code (the Code), or as options not qualified
under the Code. All options granted under the Equity Compensation Plan are issued with an exercise price at the fair market value of the common stock on the date of grant. Awards of stock options vest over two years, with 50 percent of the options
vesting in one year and the remaining 50 percent vesting the following year. Stock options that have been awarded under the Equity Compensation Plan expire five years after the grant date. We grant stock options to participants in the Equity
Compensation Plan on the first Wednesday of March based on the average of the high and low stock prices on that day as listed on the New York Stock Exchange.      Grants of restricted stock are awards of shares of common stock that are released approximately four years after the grant date. During that restriction period, recipients may not sell, transfer, pledge,
assign or otherwise convey their restricted shares to another party. However, during the restriction period, the recipient is entitled to vote the restricted shares and to retain cash dividends paid on those shares.   
  Participation units represent obligations that have a value derived from or related to the value of our common stock. These
include stock appreciation rights, phantom stock units, and restricted stock units and are payable in cash or common stock.      Under the U.K. Plan, our employees located in the United Kingdom may invest designated amounts in a savings account to be used to purchase a specified number of shares of common stock, based on option grants
that the employee may receive, at an exercise price of not less than 80 percent of the fair market value of the common stock. The options may be exercised three or five years after the date of grant, depending on the terms of the specific award.
     We issue common stock under our equity compensation plans from treasury stock. On December 31, 2010, in
addition to the shares reserved for issuance upon the exercise of outstanding options, approximately 26 million shares have been authorized for options and restricted stock that may be granted in the future.   
   Stock-based Compensation Expense       The following table details the components of stock-based compensation expense recognized in net earnings in each of the past three years:   

*  
    Stock-based compensation expense (pretax) is included in G A expenses.      
         General Dynamics
Annual Report
         
2010                        51   

Table of Contents  

Stock Options    
  We recognize compensation expense related to stock options on a straight-line basis over the vesting period of the awards, which is generally
two years. We estimate the fair value of options on the date of grant using the Black-Scholes option pricing model with the following assumptions for each of the past three years:   
   
    We estimate the above assumptions based on the following:       

Expected volatility is based on the historical volatility of our common stock over a period equal to the expected term of the option.

Expected term is based on historical option exercise data used to determine the expected employee exercise behavior. Based on historical option
exercise data, we have estimated different expected terms and determined a separate fair value for options granted for two employee populations.      

The risk-free interest rate is the yield on a U.S. Treasury zero-coupon issue with a remaining term equal to the expected term of the option at the
grant date.      

The dividend yield is based on our historical dividend yield level.      
  The resulting weighted average fair value per option granted was $11.66 in 2008, $6.98 in 2009 and $15.00 in 2010. Stock
option expense reduced operating earnings (and earnings per share) by $75 ($0.12) in 2008, $83 ($0.14) in 2009 and $82 ($0.14) in 2010. Compensation expense for stock options is reported as a Corporate expense for segment reporting purposes (see
Note Q). On December 31, 2010, we had $62 of unrecognized compensation cost related to stock options, which is expected to be recognized over a weighted average period of one year.   
  A summary of option activity during 2010 follows:   
   
    Summary information with respect to our stock options  intrinsic value and remaining contractual term on December 31, 2010, follows:   
   
    In the table above, intrinsic value is calculated as the excess, if any, between the market price of our stock on the last trading day of the year and the exercise price of the options. For options
exercised, intrinsic value is calculated as the difference between the market price on the date of exercise and the exercise price. The total intrinsic value of options exercised was $113 in 2008, $32 in 2009 and $109 in 2010.   
  We received cash from the exercise of stock options of $144 in 2008, $142 in 2009 and $277 in 2010. The excess tax benefit
resulting from stock option exercises was $31 in 2008, $5 in 2009 and $18 in 2010.       Restricted Stock/Restricted Stock Units    
  We determine the fair value of restricted stock and restricted stock units as the average of the high and low market prices of our stock on
the date of grant. We generally recognize compensation expense related to restricted stock and restricted stock units on a straight-line basis over the period during which the restriction lapses, which is generally four years.   
  Compensation expense related to restricted stock and restricted stock units reduced operating earnings (and earnings per
share) by $30 ($0.05) in 2008, $34 ($0.06) in 2009 and $36 ($0.06) in 2010. On December 31, 2010, we had $53 of unrecognized compensation cost related to restricted stock and restricted stock units, which is expected to be recognized over a
weighted average period of 2.4 years.   
      
  52                        General
Dynamics Annual Report           2010   

Table of Contents  

A summary of restricted stock and restricted
stock unit activity during 2010 follows:       
    The total fair value of shares vested was $51 in 2008, $29 in 2009 and $30 in 2010.   

    P. RETIREMENT PLANS       We provide defined-benefit pension and other post-retirement benefits, as well as defined-contribution benefits, to eligible employees.       Retirement Plan Summary Information        Pension Benefits.  We have six
noncontributory and six contributory trusteed, qualified defined-benefit pension plans covering eligible government business employees, and two noncontributory and four contributory plans covering eligible commercial business employees, including
some employees of our international operations. The primary factors affecting the benefits earned by participants in our pension plans are employees  years of service and compensation levels.   
  We also sponsor several unfunded and one funded non-qualified supplemental executive plans, which provide participants with
additional benefits, including excess benefits over limits imposed on qualified plans by federal tax law.   
   Other Post-retirement Benefits.  We maintain plans that provide post-retirement healthcare coverage for many of our
current and former employees and post-retirement life insurance benefits for certain retirees. These benefits vary by employment status, age, service and salary level at retirement. The coverage provided and the extent to which the retirees share in
the cost of the program vary throughout the company. The plans provide health and life insurance benefits only to those employees who retire directly from our service and not to those who terminate service/seniority prior to eligibility for
retirement.       Defined-contribution Benefits.  In addition to the defined-benefit plans, we provide eligible
employees the opportunity to participate in defined-contribution savings plans (commonly known as 401(k) plans), which permit contributions on both a before-tax and after-tax basis. Generally, salaried employees and certain hourly employees are
eligible to participate in the plans. Under most plans, the employee may contribute to various investment alternatives, including investment in our common stock. In some of these plans, we match a portion of the employees  contributions. Our
contributions to these defined-contribution plans totaled $190 in 2008, $192 in 2009 and $195 in 2010. The defined-contribution plans held approximately 37 million and 36 million shares of our common stock on December 31, 2009 and
2010, respectively, representing approximately 10 percent of our outstanding shares on both dates.       Contributions and Benefit Payments
      It is our policy to fund our defined-benefit retirement plans in a manner that optimizes the tax deductibility and contract
recovery of contributions, considered within our framework of capital deployment opportunities. We make both discretionary and required contributions to our pension plans to provide not only for benefits attributed to service to date, but also for
benefits to be earned in the future. Our required contributions are determined in accordance with IRS regulations.   
  We contributed $300 to our pension plans in 2010, including a voluntary $270 contribution to our primary government pension
plan. We expect to contribute approximately $350 to our plans in 2011. We are subject to the Pension Protection Act of 2006 (PPA) beginning in 2011. While the contributions to our pension plans depend on a variety of factors, including the annual
returns on our plan assets, we expect our contributions in future years to increase under the PPA.      We maintain
several tax-advantaged accounts, primarily Voluntary Employees  Beneficiary Association (VEBA) trusts, to fund the obligations for some of our post-retirement benefit plans. For non-funded plans, claims are paid as received. We contributed $35
to our other post-retirement plans in 2010 and expect to contribute approximately $30 in 2011.      We expect the
following benefits to be paid from our retirement plans over the next 10 years:       
 
         General Dynamics
Annual Report
         
2010                        53   

Table of Contents  

Government Contract Considerations       Our contractual arrangements with the U.S. government provide for the recovery of contributions to our pension and other post-retirement benefit plans covering employees working in our government contracting
businesses. For non-funded plans, our government contracts allow us to recover claims paid. Following payment, these recoverable amounts are allocated to contracts and billed to the customer in accordance with the Cost Accounting Standards and
specific contractual terms. For some of these plans, the cumulative pension and post-retirement benefit cost exceeds the amount currently allocable to contracts. To the extent recovery of the cost is considered probable based on our backlog, we
defer the excess in contracts in process on the Consolidated Balance Sheet until the cost is allocable to contracts. For other plans, the amount allocated to contracts and included in revenues has exceeded the plans  cumulative benefit cost. We
have deferred recognition of these excess earnings to provide a better matching of revenues and expenses. These deferrals have been classified against the plan assets on the Consolidated Balance Sheet. (See Note G for a discussion of our deferred
contract costs.)      The majority of our pension obligation relates to our pension plans for domestic government
business employees. The net funded status of our government pension plans was a liability of approximately $2 billion on December 31, 2009, and $2.4 billion on December 31, 2010. Our primary government pension plan was closed to new
salaried participants on January 1, 2007.       Defined-benefit Retirement Plan Summary Financial Information    
  Estimating retirement plan assets, liabilities and costs requires the use of significant judgment, including extensive use of actuarial
assumptions. These include the long-term rate of return on plan assets, the interest rate used to discount projected benefit payments, healthcare cost trend rates and future salary increases. Given the long-term nature of the assumptions being made,
actual outcomes typically differ from these estimates.      Our annual benefit cost consists of three primary
elements: the cost of benefits earned by employees for services rendered during the year, an interest charge on our plan liabilities and an assumed return on our plan assets for the year. The annual cost also includes gains and losses resulting from
changes in actuarial assumptions, as well as gains and losses resulting from changes we make to plan benefit terms.   
  We recognize an asset or liability on the Consolidated Balance Sheet equal to the funded status of each of our
defined-benefit retirement plans. The funded status is the difference between the fair value of the plan s assets and its benefit obligation. Changes in plan assets and liabilities due to differences between actuarial assumptions and the actual
results of the plan are recorded directly to AOCI in shareholders  equity on the Consolidated Balance Sheet rather than charged to earnings. These differences are then amortized over future years as a component of our annual benefit cost. We
amortize actuarial differences under qualified plans on a straight-line basis over the average remaining service period of eligible employees. We recognize the difference between the actual and expected return on plan assets for qualified plans over
five years. The deferral of these differences reduces the volatility of our annual benefit cost that can result either from year-to-year changes in the assumptions or from actual results that are not necessarily representative of the long-term
financial position of these plans. We recognize differences under nonqualified plans immediately.      Our annual
pension and other post-retirement benefit costs consisted of the following:       

54                        General
Dynamics Annual Report           2010   

Table of Contents  

The following is a reconciliation of the benefit
obligations and plan/trust assets, and the resulting funded status, of our defined-benefit retirement plans:       
    *Includes
foreign exchange translation adjustments.   
         General Dynamics
Annual Report
         
2010                        55   

Table of Contents  

The following represent amounts deferred in AOCI on the Consolidated Balance Sheet on December 31, 2010, that we expect
to recognize in our retirement benefit cost in 2011:       

Pension Benefits  

Other Post-retirement Benefits  

Prior service (credit) cost   
      
    $  
  (44)          

$  
    6          

Net actuarial loss   

159           

4          
           A pension plan s funded status is the difference between the plan s assets and its  projected benefit obligation  (PBO). The PBO is the present value of future benefits attributed to
employee services rendered to date, including assumptions about future compensation levels. A pension plan s  accumulated benefit obligation  (ABO) is the present value of future benefits attributed to employee services rendered to
date, excluding assumptions about future compensation levels. The ABO for all defined-benefit pension plans was $7.8 billion and $8.9 billion on December 31, 2009 and 2010, respectively. On December 31, 2009 and 2010, some of our pension
plans had an ABO that exceeded the plans  assets. Summary information for those plans follows:       
     Retirement Plan Assumptions
      We calculate the plan assets and liabilities for a given year and the net periodic benefit cost for the subsequent year using
assumptions determined as of December 31 of the year in question.      The following table summarizes the
weighted average assumptions used to determine our benefit obligations:       
 
  The following table summarizes the weighted average assumptions used to determine our net periodic benefit costs:

We determine the interest rate used to discount projected benefit liabilities each year based on yields currently available
on high-quality fixed-income investments with maturities consistent with the projected benefit payout period. We base the discount rate on a yield curve developed from a portfolio of high-quality corporate bonds with aggregate cash flows at least
equal to the expected benefit payments and with similar timing.      In determining our expected long-term asset
return assumptions, we rely on our current and expected asset allocation strategy. Our investment strategy considers historical market returns from various asset allocation scenarios.   
  These assumptions are based on our best judgment, including consideration of current and future market conditions. Changes in
these estimates impact future pension and post-retirement benefit costs. As discussed above, we defer recognition of the cumulative benefit cost for our government plans in excess of costs allocable to contracts to provide a better matching of
revenues and expenses. Therefore, the impact of annual changes in financial reporting assumptions on the cost for these plans does not affect our future earnings either positively or negatively. For our commercial pension plans, the following
hypothetical changes in the discount rate and expected long-term rate of return on plan assets would have had the following impact in 2010:       

Increase 25 bps  

Decrease 25 bps  

Increase (decrease) to net pension cost from:   

Change in discount rate   
      
    $  
  (5  
  )   
     
    $  
    5      

Change in long-term rate of return on plan assets   

(3  
  )   

3      

56                        General
Dynamics Annual Report           2010   

Table of Contents  

A 25-basis-point change in these assumed rates would not have had a measurable impact on the benefit cost for our other
commercial post-retirement plans in 2010. Assumed healthcare cost trend rates have a significant effect on the amounts reported for our healthcare plans. The effect of a one-percentage-point increase or decrease in the assumed healthcare cost trend
rate on the net periodic benefit cost is $6 and ($5), respectively, and the effect on the accumulated post-retirement benefit obligation is $78 and ($66), respectively.       Plan Assets       A committee of our board of directors is responsible for the
strategic oversight of our retirement plan assets held in trust. Management reports to the committee on a regular basis and is responsible for making all investment decisions related to retirement plan assets in compliance with the policies set
forth by the committee.      Our investment policy endeavors to strike the appropriate balance among capital
preservation, asset growth and current income. The objective of our investment policy is to generate future returns consistent with our assumed long-term rate of return used to determine our benefit obligations and net periodic benefit costs. Target
allocation percentages vary over time depending on the perceived risk and return potential of various asset classes and market conditions. At the end of 2010, our asset allocation policy ranges were:   

Over 90 percent of our pension plan assets are held in a single trust for our primary domestic government and commercial
pension plans. On December 31, 2010, the trust was invested largely in publicly traded equities and fixed-income securities, but may invest in other asset classes in the future consistent with our investment policy. Our investments in equity
assets include U.S. and international securities and equity funds as well as futures contracts on U.S. equity indices. Our investments in fixed-income assets include U.S. Treasury and U.S. agency securities, corporate bonds, mortgage-backed
securities, futures contracts on U.S. Treasury securities for duration management purposes and international securities. Our investment policy allows the use of derivative instruments when appropriate to reduce anticipated asset volatility, to gain
exposure to an asset class or to adjust the duration of fixed-income assets.      Assets for our international pension
plans are held in trusts in the countries in which the related operations reside. Our international operations maintain investment policies for their individual plans based on country-specific regulations. The international plan assets are primarily
invested in commingled funds comprised of international and U.S. equities and fixed-income securities.      We hold
assets in VEBA trusts for some of our other post-retirement plans. These assets are generally invested in equities, corporate bonds and equity-based mutual funds. Our asset allocation strategy for the VEBA trusts considers potential fluctuations in
our post-retirement liability, the taxable nature of certain VEBA trusts, tax deduction limits on contributions and the regulatory environment.      Our retirement plan assets are reported at fair value. (See Note D for a discussion of the hierarchy for determining fair value.) Our Level 1 assets include investments in publicly traded equity
securities and commingled funds. These securities (and the underlying investments of the funds) are actively traded and valued using quoted prices for identical securities from the market exchanges. Our Level 2 assets consist of fixed-income
securities and commingled funds that are not actively traded or whose underlying investments are valued using observable marketplace inputs. The fair value of plan assets invested in fixed-income securities is generally determined using valuation
models that use observable inputs such as interest rates, bond yields, low-volume market quotes and quoted prices for similar assets. Our plan assets that are invested in commingled funds are valued using a unit price or net asset value (NAV) that
is based on the underlying investments of the fund. We had minimal Level 3 plan assets on December 31, 2010. These investments include real estate funds, insurance deposit contracts and direct private equity investments.   
         General Dynamics
Annual Report
         
2010                        57   

Table of Contents  

The fair value of our pension plan assets by investment category and the corresponding level within the fair value hierarchy
were as follows:       

(a)  
    No single equity holding comprises more than 2 percent of the total fair value.      
 
  The fair value of our other post-retirement plan assets by category and the corresponding level within the fair value
hierarchy were as follows:       
    The changes in our Level 3 retirement plan assets during 2009 and 2010 were not material.   
      
  58                        General
Dynamics Annual Report           2010   

Table of Contents  

Q. BUSINESS GROUP INFORMATION       We operate in four business groups: Aerospace, Combat Systems, Marine Systems and Information Systems and Technology. We organize and measure our business groups in accordance with the nature of products and
services offered. These business groups derive their revenues from business aviation; combat vehicles, weapons systems and munitions; military and commercial shipbuilding; and communications and information technology, respectively. We measure each
group s profit based on operating earnings. As a result, we do not allocate net interest, other income and expense items, and income taxes to our business groups.   
  Summary financial information for each of our business groups follows:   

*  
    Corporate operating results include our stock option expense and a portion of the operating results of our commercial pension plans. Corporate
identifiable assets include cash and equivalents from domestic operations and assets of discontinued operations.         The following table presents our revenues by geographic area based on the location of our customers:       
 
  Our revenues from international operations were $4.2 billion in 2008, $5.5 billion in 2009 and $5.4 billion in 2010. The
long-lived assets of operations located outside the United States were 8 percent of our total long-lived assets on December 31, 2008, 2009 and 2010.   
         General Dynamics
Annual Report
         
2010                        59   

Table of Contents  

R. CONDENSED CONSOLIDATING FINANCIAL STATEMENTS    
  The fixed-rate notes described in Note J are fully and unconditionally guaranteed on an unsecured, joint and several basis by certain of our
100-percent-owned subsidiaries (the guarantors). The following condensed consolidating financial statements illustrate the composition of the parent, the guarantors on a combined basis (each guarantor together with its majority-owned subsidiaries)
and all other subsidiaries on a combined basis on December 31, 2009 and 2010, for the balance sheet, as well as the statements of earnings and cash flows for each of the three years in the period ended December 31, 2010.   
   CONDENSED CONSOLIDATING STATEMENT OF EARNINGS        

60                        General
Dynamics Annual Report           2010   

Table of Contents  

CONDENSED CONSOLIDATING BALANCE SHEET        
 
         General Dynamics
Annual Report
         
2010                        61   

Table of Contents  

CONDENSED CONSOLIDATING BALANCE SHEET    

62                        General
Dynamics Annual Report           2010   

Table of Contents  

CONDENSED CONSOLIDATING STATEMENT OF CASH FLOWS    

General Dynamics
Annual Report
         
2010                        63   

Table of Contents  

STATEMENT OF FINANCIAL RESPONSIBILITY    
  To the Shareholders of General Dynamics Corporation:      The management of General Dynamics Corporation is responsible for the consolidated financial statements and all related financial information contained in this report. The financial statements, which include
amounts based on estimates and judgments, have been prepared in accordance with U.S. generally accepted accounting principles applied on a consistent basis.      We maintain a system of internal accounting controls designed and intended to provide reasonable assurance that assets are safeguarded, that transactions are executed and recorded in accordance with
management s authorization and that accountability for assets is maintained. We maintain and monitor an environment that establishes an appropriate level of control consciousness. An important element of the monitoring process is an internal
audit program that independently assesses the effectiveness of the control environment.      The Audit Committee of the board of
directors, which is composed of five outside directors, meets periodically and, when appropriate, separately with the independent registered public accounting firm, management and internal audit staff to review the activities of each.   
  The financial statements have been audited by KPMG LLP, independent registered public accounting firm, whose report follows.   

L. Hugh Redd  

Jason W. Aiken   
 
  Senior Vice President and Chief Financial Officer  
     
  Vice President and Controller    
      
  64                        General
Dynamics Annual Report           2010   

Table of Contents  

REPORT OF INDEPENDENT REGISTERED PUBLIC ACCOUNTING FIRM
      The Board of Directors and Shareholders of General Dynamics Corporation:   
  We have audited the accompanying Consolidated Balance Sheets of General Dynamics Corporation and subsidiaries as of December 31, 2009
and 2010, and the related Consolidated Statements of Earnings, Shareholders  Equity, and Cash Flows for each of the years in the three-year period ended December 31, 2010. In connection with our audits of the consolidated financial
statements, we also have audited financial statement Schedule II. These consolidated financial statements and financial statement schedule are the responsibility of the company s management. Our responsibility is to express an opinion on these
consolidated financial statements and financial statement schedule based on our audits.      We conducted our audits in accordance
with the standards of the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board (United States). Those standards require that we plan and perform the audit to obtain reasonable assurance about whether the financial statements are free of material misstatement.
An audit includes examining, on a test basis, evidence supporting the amounts and disclosures in the financial statements. An audit also includes assessing the accounting principles used and significant estimates made by management, as well as
evaluating the overall financial statement presentation. We believe that our audits provide a reasonable basis for our opinion.   
  In our opinion, the consolidated financial statements referred to above present fairly, in all material respects, the financial position of
General Dynamics Corporation and subsidiaries as of December 31, 2009 and 2010, and the results of their operations and their cash flows for each of the years in the three-year period ended December 31, 2010, in conformity with U.S.
generally accepted accounting principles. Also, in our opinion, the related financial statement schedule, when considered in relation to the basic consolidated financial statements taken as a whole, presents fairly, in all material respects, the
information set forth therein.      We also have audited, in accordance with the standards of the Public Company Accounting Oversight
Board (United States), General Dynamics Corporation s internal control over financial reporting as of December 31, 2010, based on the criteria established in Internal Control   Integrated Framework issued by the Committee of
Sponsoring Organizations of the Treadway Commission (COSO), and our report dated February 18, 2011, expressed an unqualified opinion on the effectiveness of the company s internal control over financial reporting.   

KPMG LLP     

  McLean, Virginia   
  February 18, 2011   
         General Dynamics
Annual Report
         
2010                        65   

Table of Contents  

SUPPLEMENTARY DATA        (UNAUDITED)        
    (Quarterly data are based on a 13-week period. Because our fiscal year ends on December 31, the number of days in our first and fourth quarters varies slightly from year to year.)   

*  
    The sum of the basic and diluted earnings per share for the four quarters of the year may differ from the annual basic and diluted earnings per share
due to the required method of computing the weighted average number of shares in interim periods.             ITEM 9.   CHANGES IN AND DISAGREEMENTS WITH ACCOUNTANTS ON ACCOUNTING AND FINANCIAL DISCLOSURE     
  None.          ITEM 9A.   CONTROLS AND PROCEDURES         EVALUATION OF DISCLOSURE CONTROLS AND PROCEDURES       The
company s management, under the supervision and with the participation of the Chief Executive Officer and the Chief Financial Officer, evaluated the effectiveness of the company s disclosure controls and procedures (as defined in Rule
13a-15(e) and Rule 15d-15(e) under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended) as of December 31, 2010. Based on this evaluation, the Chief Executive Officer and Chief Financial Officer concluded that, as of December 31, 2010, the
company s disclosure controls and procedures were effective.      The certifications of the company s Chief Executive
Officer and Chief Financial Officer required under Section 302 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act have been filed as Exhibits 31.1 and 31.2 to this report.   
      
  66                        General
Dynamics Annual Report           2010   

Table of Contents  

MANAGEMENT S REPORT ON INTERNAL CONTROL OVER FINANCIAL
REPORTING       To the Shareholders of General Dynamics Corporation:   
  The management of General Dynamics Corporation is responsible for establishing and maintaining adequate internal control over financial
reporting and for its assessment of the effectiveness of internal control over financial reporting as defined in Rules 13a-15(f) and 15d-15(f) under the Exchange Act. Our internal control system was designed to provide reasonable assurance to our
management and board of directors regarding the preparation and fair presentation of published financial statements.      Because of
its inherent limitations, internal control over financial reporting may not prevent or detect misstatements. Also, projections of any evaluation of effectiveness to future periods are subject to the risk that controls may become inadequate because
of changes in conditions, or that the degree of compliance with the policies or procedures may deteriorate.      Our management
evaluated the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting as of December 31, 2010. In making this evaluation, we used the criteria set forth by the Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of the Treadway Commission (COSO) in
Internal Control   Integrated Framework. Based on our evaluation we believe that, as of December 31, 2010, our internal control over financial reporting is effective based on those criteria.   
  KPMG LLP has issued an audit report on the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting. The KPMG report immediately
follows this report.       

Jay L. Johnson  

L. Hugh Redd   
 
  Chairman and Chief Executive Officer  

Senior Vice President and Chief Financial Officer    
         General Dynamics
Annual Report
         
2010                        67   

Table of Contents  

REPORT OF INDEPENDENT REGISTERED PUBLIC ACCOUNTING FIRM
      The Board of Directors and Shareholders of General Dynamics Corporation:   
  We have audited General Dynamics Corporation s internal control over financial reporting as of December 31, 2010, based on the
criteria established in Internal Control   Integrated Framework issued by the Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of the Treadway Commission (COSO). General Dynamics Corporation s management is responsible for maintaining effective
internal control over financial reporting and for its assessment of the effectiveness of internal control over financial reporting, included in the accompanying Management s Report on Internal Control over Financial Reporting. Our
responsibility is to express an opinion on the company s internal control over financial reporting based on our audit.      We
conducted our audit in accordance with the standards of the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board (United States). Those standards require that we plan and perform the audit to obtain reasonable assurance about whether effective internal control
over financial reporting was maintained in all material respects. Our audit included obtaining an understanding of internal control over financial reporting, assessing the risk that a material weakness exists, and testing and evaluating the design
and operating effectiveness of internal control based on the assessed risk. Our audit also included performing such other procedures as we considered necessary in the circumstances. We believe that our audit provides a reasonable basis for our
opinion.      A company s internal control over financial reporting is a process designed to provide reasonable assurance
regarding the reliability of financial reporting and the preparation of financial statements for external purposes in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles. A company s internal control over financial reporting includes those
policies and procedures that (1) pertain to the maintenance of records that, in reasonable detail, accurately and fairly reflect the transactions and dispositions of the assets of the company; (2) provide reasonable assurance that
transactions are recorded as necessary to permit preparation of financial statements in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles, and that receipts and expenditures of the company are being made only in accordance with authorizations
of management and directors of the company; and (3) provide reasonable assurance regarding prevention or timely detection of unauthorized acquisition, use, or disposition of the company s assets that could have a material effect on the
financial statements.      Because of its inherent limitations, internal control over financial reporting may not prevent or detect
misstatements. Also, projections of any evaluation of effectiveness to future periods are subject to the risk that controls may become inadequate because of changes in conditions, or that the degree of compliance with the policies or procedures may
deteriorate.      In our opinion, General Dynamics Corporation maintained, in all material respects, effective internal control over
financial reporting as of December 31, 2010, based on the criteria established in Internal Control   Integrated Framework issued by the COSO.      We also have audited, in accordance with the standards of the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board (United States), the Consolidated Balance Sheets of General Dynamics Corporation and subsidiaries as of
December 31, 2009 and 2010, and the related Consolidated Statements of Earnings, Shareholders  Equity, and Cash Flows for each of the years in the three-year period ended December 31, 2010, and our report dated February 18, 2011,
expressed an unqualified opinion on those consolidated financial statements.        

KPMG LLP     

  McLean, Virginia   
  February 18, 2011   
   CHANGES IN INTERNAL CONTROL OVER FINANCIAL REPORTING       There were no significant changes in our internal control over financial reporting that occurred during the quarter ended December 31, 2010, that have materially affected, or are reasonably likely to
materially affect, our internal control over financial reporting.   
      
  68                        General
Dynamics Annual Report           2010   

Table of Contents  

ITEM 9B.   OTHER
INFORMATION        None.   
   PART III        
   
      ITEM 10.   DIRECTORS,
EXECUTIVE OFFICERS AND CORPORATE GOVERNANCE        The information required to be set forth herein, except for the
information included under Executive Officers of the Company, is included in the sections entitled  Election of the Board of Directors of the Company,   Governance of the Company   Codes of Ethics,   Audit
Committee Report  and  Other Information   Section 16(a) Beneficial Ownership Reporting Compliance  in our definitive proxy statement for our 2011 annual shareholders meeting (the Proxy Statement), which sections are
incorporated herein by reference.       Executive Officers of the Company    
  All of our executive officers are appointed annually. None of our executive officers was selected pursuant to any arrangement or
understanding between the officer and any other person. The name, age, offices and positions of our executives held for at least the last five years as of February 18, 2011, were as follows:   

Name, Position and Office   
      
   Age    

Jason W. Aiken   Vice President and Controller of the company since April 2010; Staff Vice President, Accounting, of the company, July 2006   March 2010; Director,
Consolidation Accounting, of the company, June 2002   June 2006  
      
  38   

John P. Casey   Vice President of the company and President of Electric Boat Corporation since October 2003; Vice President of Electric Boat Corporation, October 1996  
October 2003  
      
  56   

Gerard J. DeMuro   Executive Vice President, Information Systems and Technology, since October 2003; Vice President of the company, February 2000   October 2003; President of
General Dynamics C4 Systems, August 2001   October 2003  
      
  55   

Gregory S. Gallopoulos   Senior Vice President, General Counsel and Secretary of the company since January 2010; Vice President and Deputy General Counsel of the company, July
2008   January 2010; Managing Partner of Jenner   Block LLP, January 2005   June 2008  
      
  51   

David K. Heebner   Executive Vice President, Combat Systems since May 2010; Executive Vice President, Marine Systems, January 2009   May 2010; Senior Vice President of the
company, May 2002   January 2009; President of General Dynamics Land Systems, July 2005   October 2008; Senior Vice President, Planning and Development, of the company, May 2002   July 2005; Vice President, Strategic Planning, of the
company, January 2000   May 2002  
      
  66   

Robert W. Helm   Senior Vice President, Planning and Development of the company since May 2010; Vice President, Government Relations, of Northrop Grumman Corporation, August 1989
  April 2010  
      
  59   

Jay L. Johnson   Chairman and Chief Executive Officer of the company since May 2010; President and Chief Executive Officer of the company, July 2009   May 2010; Vice Chairman
of the company, September 2008   July 2009; Executive Vice President of Dominion Resources, Inc., December 2002   June 2008; Chief Executive Officer of Dominion Virginia Power, October 2007   June 2008; President and Chief Executive
Officer of Dominion Delivery, 2002   2007  
      
  64   

S. Daniel Johnson   Vice President of the company and President of General Dynamics Information Technology since April 2008; Executive Vice President of General Dynamics
Information Technology, July 2006   March 2008; Executive Vice President and Chief Operating Officer of Anteon Corporation, August 2003   June 2006  
      
  63   

Joseph T. Lombardo   Executive Vice President, Aerospace, and President of Gulfstream Aerospace Corporation since April 2007; Vice President of the company and Chief Operating
Officer of Gulfstream Aerospace Corporation, May 2002   April 2007  
      
  63   

Christopher Marzilli   Vice President of the company and President of General Dynamics C4 Systems since January 2006; Senior Vice President and Deputy General Manager of General
Dynamics C4 Systems, November 2003   January 2006  
      
  51   

Phebe N. Novakovic   Executive Vice President, Marine Systems, since May 2010; Senior Vice President, Planning and Development of the company, July 2005   May 2010; Vice
President, Strategic Planning, of the company, October 2002   July 2005  
      
  53   

Walter M. Oliver   Senior Vice President, Human Resources and Administration, of the company since March 2002; Vice President, Human Resources and Administration, of the company,
January 2001   March 2002  
      
  65   

L. Hugh Redd   Senior Vice President and Chief Financial Officer of the company since June 2006; Vice President and Controller of General Dynamics Land Systems, January 2000
  June 2006  
      
  53   

Mark C. Roualet   Vice President of the company and President of General Dynamics Land Systems since October 2008; Senior Vice President and Chief Operating Officer of General
Dynamics Land Systems, July 2007   October 2008; Senior Vice President   Ground Combat Systems of General Dynamics Land Systems, March 2003   July 2007  
      
  52   

Lewis F. Von Thaer   Vice President of the company and President of General Dynamics Advanced Information Systems since March 2005; Senior Vice President, Operations, of General
Dynamics Advanced Information Systems, November 2003   March 2005  
      
  50    
         General Dynamics
Annual Report
         
2010                        69   

Table of Contents  

ITEM 11.   EXECUTIVE
COMPENSATION        The information required to be set forth herein is included in the sections entitled  Governance of
the Company   Director Compensation,   Compensation Discussion and Analysis,   Executive Compensation  and  Compensation Committee Report  in our Proxy Statement, which sections are incorporated herein by
reference.          ITEM 12.   SECURITY OWNERSHIP OF CERTAIN BENEFICIAL OWNERS AND MANAGEMENT AND RELATED STOCKHOLDER MATTERS        The information required to be set forth herein is included in the sections entitled  Security Ownership of Management  and  Security Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owners  in our Proxy
Statement, which sections are incorporated herein by reference.      The information required to be set forth herein with respect to
securities authorized for issuance under our equity compensation plans is included in the section entitled  Equity Compensation Plan Information  in our Proxy Statement, which section is incorporated herein by reference.   
      ITEM 13.   CERTAIN
RELATIONSHIPS AND RELATED TRANSACTIONS, AND DIRECTOR INDEPENDENCE        The information required to be set forth herein is
included in the sections entitled  Governance of the Company   Related Person Transactions Policy  and  Governance of the Company   Director Independence  in our Proxy Statement, which sections are incorporated herein
by reference.          ITEM 14.   PRINCIPAL ACCOUNTANT FEES AND SERVICES        The information required to be set forth
herein is included in the section entitled  Selection of Independent Auditors   Audit and Non-Audit Fees  in our Proxy Statement, which section is incorporated herein by reference.   
   PART IV        
   
      ITEM 15.   EXHIBITS AND
FINANCIAL STATEMENT SCHEDULES        1. Consolidated Financial Statements   

Consolidated Statement of Earnings  
    Consolidated Balance Sheet       Consolidated Statement of Cash Flows       Consolidated Statement of
Shareholders  Equity       Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements (A to R)     
  2. Financial Statement Schedules       

Schedule   
      
   Description   
      
       Page    

II   
      
  Valuation and Qualifying Accounts  
      
        72    

All other financial schedules not listed are omitted because they are either inapplicable or not required, or because the
required information is included in the Consolidated Financial Statements or the Notes thereto.        3. Exhibits

70                        General
Dynamics Annual Report           2010   

Table of Contents  

SIGNATURES    
  Pursuant to the requirements of Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, the Registrant has duly caused
this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned, thereunto duly authorized.       

GENERAL DYNAMICS CORPORATION   

By:  

Jason W. Aiken   

Vice President and Controller    
  February 18, 2011      Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, this report has been signed below on February 18, 2011, by the following persons on behalf of the Registrant and in the
capacities indicated, including a majority of the directors.       

Chairman, Chief Executive Officer and Director   
 
  Jay L. Johnson  

(Principal Executive Officer)   

Senior Vice President and Chief Financial Officer   
 
  L. Hugh Redd  

(Principal Financial Officer)   

Vice President and Controller   
 
  Jason W. Aiken  

(Principal Accounting Officer)   

*   

Nicholas D. Chabraja  

Director   

*   

James S. Crown  

Director   

*   

William P. Fricks  

Director   

*   

George A. Joulwan  

Director   

*   

Paul G. Kaminski  

Director   

*   

John M. Keane  

Director   

*   

Lester L. Lyles  

Director   

*   

William A. Osborn  

Director   

*   

Robert Walmsley  

Director        

*  
    By Gregory S. Gallopoulos pursuant to a Power of Attorney executed by the directors listed above, which Power of Attorney has been filed as an exhibit
hereto and incorporated herein by reference thereto.          

Gregory S. Gallopoulos   

Senior Vice President, General Counsel and Secretary    
         General Dynamics
Annual Report
         
2010                        71   

Table of Contents  

SCHEDULE II VALUATION AND QUALIFYING ACCOUNTS    
   
    Allowance and valuation accounts
consist of accounts receivable allowance for doubtful accounts and valuation allowance on deferred tax assets. These amounts are deducted from the assets to which they apply.   

*  
    Includes amounts assumed in business combinations and foreign currency translation adjustments.      
     INDEX TO EXHIBITS   GENERAL DYNAMICS CORPORATION        COMMISSION FILE NO. 1-3671       Exhibits listed below, which have been filed with
the Commission pursuant to the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, or the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, and which were filed as noted below, are hereby incorporated by reference and made a part of this report with the same effect as
if filed herewith.       

Exhibit   
   Number    
     
   Description    

3.1   
     
    Restated Certificate of Incorporation of the company (incorporated herein by reference from the company s current report on Form 8-K, filed with the Commission
October 7, 2004)    

3.2   
     
    Amended and Restated Bylaws of General Dynamics Corporation (as amended effective February 4, 2009) (incorporated herein by reference from the company s
current report on Form 8-K, filed with the Commission February 5, 2009)    

4.1   
     
    Indenture dated as of August 27, 2001, among the company, the Guarantors (as defined therein) and The Bank of New York, as Trustee (incorporated herein by reference
from the company s registration statement on Form S-4, filed with the Commission January 18, 2002, SEC file number 1-3671)    

4.2   
     
    Second Supplemental Indenture dated as of May 15, 2003, among the company, the Guarantors (as defined therein) and The Bank of New York, as Trustee (incorporated
herein by reference from the company s current report on Form 8-K, filed with the Commission May 16, 2003, SEC file number 1-3671)    

4.3   
     
    Third Supplemental Indenture dated as of August 14, 2003, among the company, the Guarantors (as defined therein) and The Bank of New York, as Trustee (incorporated
herein by reference from the company s current report on Form 8-K, filed with the Commission August 14, 2003, SEC file number 1-3671)    

4.4   
     
    Fourth Supplemental Indenture dated as of December 15, 2008, among the company, the Guarantors (as defined therein) and The Bank of New York Mellon, as Trustee
(incorporated herein by reference from the company s current report on Form 8-K, filed with the Commission December 15, 2008)    

4.5   
     
    Fifth Supplemental Indenture dated as of June 24, 2009, among the company, the Guarantors (as defined therein) and The Bank of New York Mellon, as Trustee
(incorporated herein by reference from the company s current report on Form 8-K, filed with the Commission June 24, 2009)    

10.1*   
     
    General Dynamics Corporation Equity Compensation Plan (incorporated herein by reference from the company s annual report on Form 10-K for the year ended
December 31, 2003, filed with the Commission March 5, 2004, SEC file number 1-3671)    

10.2*   
     
    Form of Incentive Stock Option Agreement pursuant to the General Dynamics Corporation Equity Compensation Plan (incorporated herein by reference from the
company s annual report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2004, filed with the Commission March 4, 2005)     
      
  72                        General
Dynamics Annual Report           2010   

Table of Contents  

INDEX TO EXHIBITS   GENERAL DYNAMICS CORPORATION        COMMISSION FILE NO. 1-3671          

Exhibit   
   Number    
     
   Description    

10.3*   
     
    Form of Non-Statutory Stock Option Agreement pursuant to the General Dynamics Corporation Equity Compensation Plan (incorporated herein by reference from the
company s annual report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2004, filed with the Commission March 4, 2005)    

10.4*   
     
    Form of Restricted Stock Award Agreement pursuant to the General Dynamics Corporation Equity Compensation Plan (incorporated herein by reference from the
company s annual report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2004, filed with the Commission March 4, 2005)    

10.5*   
     
    Form of Restricted Stock Unit Award Agreement pursuant to the General Dynamics Corporation Equity Compensation Plan (incorporated herein by reference from the
company s annual report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2008, filed with the Commission February 20, 2009)    

10.6*   
     
    General Dynamics Corporation 2009 Equity Compensation Plan (incorporated herein by reference from the company s registration statement on Form S-8 (No.
333-159038) filed with the Commission May 7, 2009)    

10.7*   
     
    Form of Incentive Stock Option Agreement pursuant to the General Dynamics Corporation 2009 Equity Compensation Plan (incorporated herein by reference from the
company s quarterly report on Form 10-Q for the quarter ended July 5, 2009, filed with the Commission August 4, 2009)    

10.8*   
     
    Form of Non-Statutory Stock Option Agreement pursuant to the General Dynamics Corporation 2009 Equity Compensation Plan (incorporated herein by reference from the
company s quarterly report on Form 10-Q for the quarter ended July 5, 2009, filed with the Commission August 4, 2009)    

10.9*   
     
    Form of Restricted Stock Award Agreement pursuant to the General Dynamics Corporation 2009 Equity Compensation Plan (incorporated herein by reference from the
company s quarterly report on Form 10-Q for the quarter ended July 5, 2009, filed with the Commission August 4, 2009)    

10.10*   
     
    Form of Restricted Stock Unit Award Agreement pursuant to the General Dynamics Corporation 2009 Equity Compensation Plan (incorporated herein by reference from the
company s quarterly report on Form 10-Q for the quarter ended July 5, 2009, filed with the Commission August 4, 2009)    

10.11*   
     
    Successor Retirement Plan for Directors (incorporated herein by reference from the company s annual report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2003,
filed with the Commission March 5, 2004, SEC file number 1-3671)    

10.12*   
     
    General Dynamics Corporation Non-employee Directors  1999 Stock Plan (incorporated herein by reference from the company s annual report on Form 10-K for
the year ended December 31, 2002, filed with the Commission March 24, 2003, SEC file number 1-3671)    

10.13*   
     
    General Dynamics United Kingdom Share Save Plan (incorporated herein by reference from the company s annual report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31,
2002, filed with the Commission March 24, 2003, SEC file number 1-3671)    

10.14*   
     
    2009 General Dynamics United Kingdom Share Save Plan (incorporated herein by reference from the company s registration statement on Form S-8 (No. 333-159045)
filed with the Commission May 7, 2009)    

10.15*   
     
    General Dynamics Corporation Supplemental Savings and Stock Investment Plan, amended and restated effective as of January 1, 2009 (incorporated herein by reference
from the company s annual report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2008, filed with the Commission February 20, 2009)    

10.16*   
     
    Form of Severance Protection Agreement entered into by substantially all executive officers elected prior to April 23, 2009 (incorporated herein by reference from
the company s annual report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2008, filed with the Commission February 20, 2009)    

10.17*   
     
    Form of Severance Protection Agreement entered into by substantially all executive officers elected on or after April 23, 2009 (incorporated herein by reference
from the company s annual report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2009, filed with the Commission February 19, 2010)    

10.18*   
     
    General Dynamics Corporation Supplemental Retirement Plan, restated effective January 1, 2010**    

10.19*   
     
    2010 Compensation Arrangements for Named Executive Officers (incorporated herein by reference from the company s quarterly report on Form 10-Q for the
quarterly period ended April 4, 2010, filed with the Commission May 4, 2010)     
         General Dynamics
Annual Report
         
2010                        73   

Table of Contents  

INDEX TO EXHIBITS   GENERAL DYNAMICS CORPORATION        COMMISSION FILE NO. 1-3671          

*  
      Indicates a management contract or compensatory plan or arrangement required to be filed pursuant to Item 15(b) of Form 10-K.

**  
      Filed herewith.      
      
  74                        General
Dynamics Annual Report           2010   

<EX-10.18>
 2
 dex1018.htm
 EXHIBIT 10.18

Exhibit 10.18 

Exhibit 10.18       GENERAL DYNAMICS CORPORATION        SUPPLEMENTAL RETIREMENT PLAN
      Effective January 1, 1983      and restated effective January 1, 2010 (incorporating amendments through December 31, 2010)   

TABLE OF CONTENTS     

i   

ii   

SECTION 1         INTRODUCTION AND PLAN HISTORY        1.01  Introduction .   

(a)  
  This Plan is maintained so as to strengthen the ability of the Corporation to attract and retain persons of outstanding competence upon which, in large measure,
continued growth and profitability depend.         

(b)  
  The Plan is intended to supplement any benefits that may be provided under any plans of the Corporation and its Subsidiaries, as they may be in effect from time to
time, that are qualified under Code Section 401. The Corporation shall not be required to fund, in any way, any of the benefits provided under this Plan prior to the time payments become due to persons hereunder.     

(c)  
  The Plan is intended to be an excess benefit plan within the meanings of Sections 3(36) and 201(7) of ERISA and an unfunded deferred compensation plan for a select
group of management or highly compensated employees within the meanings of Sections 201(2), 301(a)(3) and 401(a)(4) of ERISA and Labor Regulation Section 2520.104-23, and shall be construed and interpreted accordingly.     
  1.02  Effective Date . The Plan was established January 1, 1983, was amended and restated as of January 1, 1989, as of January 1,
2002, and as of January 1, 2009, and has also been amended from time to time. The Effective Date of the amendment and restatement of the Plan as set forth herein is January 1, 2010, except as otherwise provided in the Plan or an Appendix,
and it incorporates amendments through December 31, 2010.      1.03  Plan Appendices and Exhibits . From time to time, the Corporation
may adopt Exhibits to the Plan for the purpose of setting forth specific provisions of this Plan. In addition, the Corporation may from time to time adopt Appendices to this Plan for the purpose of providing documentation necessary to determine
benefits under the Plan for certain employee groups. Each such Exhibit or Appendix shall be attached to and form a part of the Plan. Each such Exhibit or Appendix shall specify the Employing Unit to which it applies and shall supersede the
provisions of the Plan document to the extent necessary to eliminate any inconsistencies between the Plan document and such Exhibit or Appendix.       SECTION 2         DEFINITIONS     
  Where the following words and phrases appear in the Plan, they shall have the respective meanings set forth below, unless the context clearly indicates
to the contrary. Some of the words and phrases used in the Plan are not defined in this Section 2, but, for convenience, are defined as provided in an Appendix or Exhibit or as they are introduced into the text.   
         1   

2.01  Actuarial Equivalent Value .  Actuarial Equivalent Value  shall mean an amount
determined by an Actuary that is of the equivalent value to the aggregate amounts expected to be received under different forms of payment under the Plan and based on actuarial assumptions adopted under the Defined Benefit Plan in which the Plan
Participant benefits. For purposes of determining a lump sum value where no lump sum payment option, other than the small benefit cashouts described in Section S5.5 of the Master Retirement Plan Supplement (or any successor provision thereto), is
available under the Defined Benefit Plan, the lump sum value shall be based on the actuarial assumptions that would be used for determining a small benefit cashout.      2.02  Actuary .  Actuary  shall mean one or more actuaries chosen by the Corporation, who shall be independent of the Corporation, and qualified through Fellowship in the Society of
Actuaries or a firm with such actuaries on its staff.      2.03  Code .  Code  shall mean the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as
amended from time to time, and the applicable regulations and other guidance issued thereunder.      2.04  Corporation .
 Corporation  shall mean General Dynamics Corporation, a Delaware corporation, and any successor thereof.      2.05  Defined Benefit
Plan .  Defined Benefit Plan  shall mean any Retirement Plan maintained by the Corporation or its Subsidiaries other than a Defined Contribution Plan as its specific benefit structure is defined with respect to a group of covered
employees. Defined Benefit Plans covered by this Plan are listed in Appendix A.      2.06  Defined Contribution Plan .  Defined
Contribution Plan  shall mean a Retirement Plan which provides for an individual account for each covered Employee and for benefits based solely upon the amount contributed to the Employee s account, and any income, expenses, gains and
losses, and any other amounts which may be allocated to such account.      2.07  Determination Date .  Determination Date  shall
mean, in the case of payment resulting from disability, the Participant s attainment of age 65, or, for all other payments, the first day of the month following the later of the Participant s attainment of age 55 or the Participant s
Separation from Service, including Separation from Service on account of death.      2.08  Employee .  Employee  shall mean any
person regularly employed as a full-time salaried or hourly employee by the Corporation or its Subsidiaries in any capacity including officers (and also including directors who regularly render services to the Corporation or its Subsidiaries as
regular full-time employees), and who is not covered by a collective bargaining agreement unless coverage under this Plan has been extended by negotiated agreement to Employees covered by the terms of such agreements. Individuals not initially
treated and classified by the Corporation as common-law employees, including, but not limited to, leased employees, independent contractors or any other contract employees, shall be excluded from participation irrespective of whether a court,
administrative agency or other entity determines that such individuals are common-law employees.      2.09  Employing Unit .  Employing
Unit  shall mean any Subsidiary or affiliate of the Corporation or any economic or organizational or locational division or unit thereof which is set forth in the Appendices to the Plan.   
         2   

2.10  ERISA .  ERISA  shall mean the Employee Retirement Income Security Act of 1974, as
amended.      2.11  Grandfathered Amounts .  Grandfathered Amounts  shall mean any amounts under this Plan which were deferred and
vested before January 1, 2005 (as determined in accordance with Code Section 409A).      2.12  Participant .
 Participant  shall mean an Employee who satisfied the eligibility criteria described in Section 3.01, 4.01 or an Appendix.   
  2.13  Plan .  Plan  shall mean the Supplemental Retirement Plan effective January 1, 1983, and restated as set forth herein effective
January 1, 2010 (and incorporating amendments through December 31, 2010), as it shall be amended from time to time and its Appendices and Exhibits.      2.14  Retirement Plan .  Retirement Plan  shall mean any plan, fund, or program which was heretofore or is hereafter established or maintained by the Corporation and/or its Subsidiaries and
which is qualified under Code Section 401 to the extent that by its express terms or as a result of surrounding circumstances such plan, fund or program:       

(a)  
  provides retirement income to Employees; or         

(b)  
  results in a deferral of income by Employees for periods extending to the termination of covered employment or beyond,     
  regardless of the method of calculating the contributions made to the plan, the method of calculating the benefits under the plan or the method of
distributing benefits from the plan.      2.15  Separation from Service .  Separation from Service  shall have the meaning set
forth in Code Section 409A.      2.16  Subsidiary .  Subsidiary  shall mean any subsidiary of the Corporation authorized by
the Corporation to participate in this Plan with respect to its Employees and of which the Corporation owns, directly or indirectly, fifty percent (50%) or more of the outstanding voting stock.   
   SECTION 3    
    SUPPLEMENTAL BENEFITS DUE TO LIMITATIONS          UNDER DEFINED BENEFIT PLANS        3.01  Participation . Eligibility for
participation for any benefits provided under Section 3.03 shall be extended to Employees covered under a benefit structure identified in Appendix A either who are members of a select group of management or highly compensated employees with
benefits payable under such benefit structure restricted due to the limitations of Code Section 401(a)(17) or whose benefits payable thereunder are restricted due to Code Section 415 limitations.   
  Notwithstanding the preceding paragraph, an Employee shall not be eligible for a benefit under Section 3.03 if such Employee is eligible for
benefits under an Appendix (other than Appendix A)   
         3   

or an agreement with the Corporation or its Subsidiaries where such Appendix or agreement provides benefits in lieu of benefits described in Section 3.03 unless such Appendix or agreement
provides otherwise.      3.02  Transition Rules .       

(a)  
  Except as otherwise specifically provided herein with respect to Grandfathered Amounts, any benefit pursuant to this Plan distribution of which commenced prior to
January 1, 2009, shall continue to be paid in the same amount and in the same time and form of payment as elected by the Participant prior to January 1, 2009.     

(b)  
  A Participant with a Plan benefit that is solely a Grandfathered Amount the distribution of which has not commenced prior to January 1, 2009, shall be eligible for
a Plan benefit in accordance with the terms of the Plan as in effect as of the date of such Participant s termination of employment, without regard to any forms of benefit that are no longer available under the Defined Benefit Plan of which the
Participant is a member as of the date distribution of such Participant s benefit commences.        3.03  Supplemental Benefit
Due to Limitations Under Defined Benefit Plans .      The benefit payable to or on behalf of a Participant eligible under
Section 3.01 with a Determination Date on or after January 1, 2009, other than a Participant described in Section 3.02 above, shall be an amount equal to the excess, if any, of (X) over (Y) as follows:   
  (X) The total benefit that would have been provided to the Participant under the various Defined Benefit Plans of which the Participant is
a member without regard to the limitations of Code Sections 415 or 401(a)(17), where such benefit is calculated in the form of a single life annuity payable as of the Determination Date.   
  (Y) The benefit that would have been payable to the Participant under the various Defined Benefit Plans of which the Participant is a
member, after giving effect to the limitations of Code Section 415 and 401(a)(17) where such benefit is calculated in the form of a single life annuity payable as of the Determination Date.   
  However, calculation of the benefit pursuant to this Section shall reflect any restrictions and/or modifications described in Appendix A
that may be applicable to the Participant. In the event that the Determination Date of a Participant is earlier than when the Participant would first be eligible for early commencement of benefits from the underlying Defined Benefit Plan, the
monthly amount payable upon such earlier commencement shall be reduced in accordance with the actuarial equivalent early commencement basis that would be applicable under the General Dynamics Salaried Retirement Plan for a Participant terminating
prior to the attainment of age 55 but with ten years of service.      3.04  Forms of Distribution for Grandfathered Amounts . Any
Grandfathered Amounts shall be subject to the distribution forms and elections under this Plan as in effect on December 31, 2004 to the extent that such forms continue to be available under the Defined Benefit Plan of which the
  
         4   

Participant is a member as of the date distribution of such Participant s benefit commences, and such benefit shall be determined and payable as of such Defined Benefit Plan benefit
commencement date.      3.05  Forms of Distribution for Benefits Without Lump-Sum Option . Payment of benefits under the Plan (other than
with respect to Grandfathered Amounts), with respect to Defined Benefit Plans that as of January 1, 2005, did not provide for a lump sum payment option, shall be as follows:   

(a)  
  The normal form of distribution of benefits subject to this Section 3.05 if the Participant is legally married at the Determination Date shall be in the form of a
100% Contingent Annuitant Option, which is a reduced retirement benefit payable to the Participant during his or her lifetime, with 100% of such retirement benefit continuing to and for the lifetime of the participant s spouse, if such spouse
survives the Participant.         

(b)  
  The normal form of distribution of benefits subject to this Section 3.05 if the Participant is not legally married at the Determination Date shall be in the form
of a single life annuitant option, which is a retirement benefit payable to the Participant for the remainder of his or her lifetime.        3.06  Forms of Distribution for Benefits With Lump-Sum Option . Payment of benefits under the Plan (other than with respect to Grandfathered Amounts), with respect to Defined Benefit Plans that as of
January 1, 2005, provided for a lump sum distribution option, shall be as follows:       

(a)  
  The normal form of distribution of benefits subject to this Section 3.06 with respect to benefits for which a lump sum option under the underlying Defined Benefit
Plan was available as of January 1, 2005, shall be in a lump sum payment.         

(b)  
  The normal form of distribution of benefits subject to this Section 3.06 but not subject to Section 3.06(a) shall be (1) if the Participant was legally
married at the Determination Date, in the form of a 100% Contingent Annuitant Option (as described in Section 3.05) and (2) if the Participant is not legally married at the Determination Date, in the form of a single life annuitant option
(as described in Section 3.05).        3.07  Election of Alternative Annuity Forms . With respect to non-Grandfathered
Amounts that are payable under Sections 3.05 or 3.06(b), a Participant may elect, at any time prior to the Determination Date, to change from the normal form of distribution to another optional form of distribution with an Actuarial Equivalent Value
that is provided for in the underlying Defined Benefit Plan.      3.08  Distribution Date of non-Grandfathered Amounts .   

(a)  
     Later of Age 55 or 6 Months Following Separation From Service . Except as provided in paragraph (b), below, distribution of a Participant s
benefits under the Plan (other than with respect to Grandfathered Amounts) shall commence on the Participant s Determination Date; provided however that distribution of such
     
         5   

benefits shall commence no earlier than the first day of the first month that is more than 6 months following the Participant s Separation from Service. Payments that are delayed pursuant to
the proviso in the preceding sentence shall be accumulated with interest during such deferral period based on the third segment rate in effect in November of the year prior to the year in which the Determination Date occurs and with application of
the  417(e)(3)(D) adjustment for plan years beginning prior to 2012.          

(b)  
   Disability . If the Participant incurs a  disability  (as defined in Code Section 409A), distribution of the Participant s benefits under the
Plan (other than with respect to Grandfathered Amounts) shall commence upon the Participant s attainment of age 65.        3.09
 Small-Sum Cashout . In the event that the single lump sum Actuarial Equivalent Value of any benefit subject to Section 3.05 or Section 3.06(b), determined as of the Determination Date (or the date specified in Section 3.08(b),
if applicable) is less than $100,000, such benefit shall be distributed in a single lump sum payment. In addition, in the event that the single lump sum Actuarial Equivalent Value of any benefit subject to Section 3.05 or Section 3.06,
aggregated with benefits (other than Grandfathered Amounts) under other plans of the Corporation that are of a  single type  with this Plan pursuant to Treas. Reg.   1.409A-1(c)(2), is less than the applicable dollar amount under
  402(g)(1)(B) of the Code, the Corporation shall have the discretion to distribute such amount in a single lump sum payment.      3.10
 Reemployment . Except as otherwise provided in this Section 3.10, there will be no suspension of benefits under this Plan in the event of reemployment of the Participant by the Corporation or any Subsidiary following the
Participant s Determination Date. Re-employment of a Participant following such Participant s Determination Date shall not affect the Participant s rights to continued receipt of benefits previously earned by such Employee.
Notwithstanding the foregoing, if a Participant who is receiving Grandfathered Amounts is reemployed with the Corporation or an affiliate of the Corporation and, in connection with such reemployment, his Defined Benefit Plan benefit payment is
suspended, payment of his Grandfathered Amounts will be suspended for the same period. Payment of such Grandfathered Amounts will recommence at the same time as his or her benefit under the Defined Benefit Plan and recommencement of the
Grandfathered Amounts will be adjusted in accordance with the provisions of the Plan to reflect the period of suspension and benefits previously paid. However, any additional benefits earned attributable to service associated with the Grandfathered
Amounts shall be treated as non-Grandfathered Amounts.      3.11  Distribution of Benefit . In accordance with the
provisions of Section 409A, distributions of a Participant s benefits (other than Grandfathered Amounts) shall be paid or commence no later than the fifteenth (15   th   ) day of the third (3   rd   ) month following the date on which payment of benefits is scheduled to commence pursuant to Section 3.08.
  
         6   

SECTION 4         SPECIAL SUPPLEMENTAL BENEFITS        4.01  Participation . Recognizing the need to
make special retirement and other compensation or employee benefit provisions for certain Employees of Employing Units, the Corporation may, from time to time and in its best judgment, designate groups of select management or highly compensated
employees as being eligible to receive additional benefits, substitute benefits, or more restrictive benefits than are found in Section 3.03 of the Plan. Any such Employees or groups of Employees shall be described in Appendices attached to
this Plan or in other agreements with the Corporation or its Subsidiaries.      Such Employees shall not be eligible for a benefit under
Section 3.03 to the extent such appendices or agreements provide for benefits in lieu of benefits described in Section 3.03 unless such Appendix or agreement provides otherwise. For those Employees with individual agreements, unless
expressly provided in the agreement, the provisions of this Plan shall not apply to the benefit attributable to such agreement.      4.02
 Benefits . Such benefits may be provided only to select management or highly compensated employees in such amounts as the Corporation determines are appropriate.       SECTION 5         MISCELLANEOUS PROVISIONS     
  5.01  Construction . In the construction of the Plan the masculine shall include the feminine and the singular shall include the plural in all cases
where such meanings would be appropriate. This Plan shall be construed, governed, regulated, and administered according to the laws of the State of Virginia.      5.02  Employment . The Plan is not an employment contract. Participation in the Plan shall not give any Employee the right to be retained in the employ of the Corporation or its Subsidiaries, or upon
dismissal or upon his voluntary termination of employment, to have any right, legal or equitable, under the Plan or any portion thereof, except as expressly granted by the Plan.      5.03  Non-alienability of Benefits . No benefit under the Plan shall be subject in any manner to anticipation, alienation, sale, transfer, assignment, pledge, encumbrance, or charge; and any attempt
to anticipate, alienate, sell, transfer, assign, pledge, encumber, or charge the same shall be void; and no such benefit shall in any manner be liable for or subject to the debts, liabilities, engagements, or torts of the person entitled to such
benefit, except as specifically provided in the Plan.      5.04  Facility of Payment . If any recipient of benefits is, in the judgment of
the Corporation, legally incapable of personally receiving and giving a valid receipt for any payment due him under the Plan, the Corporation may, unless and until claims shall have been made by a duly appointed guardian or committee of such person,
make such payment or any part thereof to such person s spouse, children, or other legal entity deemed by the Corporation to have incurred expenses or assumed responsibility for the expenses of such person. Any payment so made shall be a
complete discharge of any liability under the Plan for such payment.   
         7   

5.05  Discretionary Payment of Benefits . In any instance in which the Corporation in its sole and
uncontrolled discretion believes such action to be in the best interest of the party entitled to receive any payment provided by this Plan, or to be in the best interests of the Corporation, Grandfathered Amounts payable in installments pursuant to
the provisions of this Plan may be paid in a single lump sum, the amount of which shall be of Actuarial Equivalent Value to the benefits for which the lump sum is to be substituted. It is intended by this Section 5.05 to vest the Corporation
with full discretion to administer this Plan with respect to Grandfathered Amounts and to determine when and under what circumstances deviations which accelerate payments of Grandfathered Amounts are necessary, desirable, or appropriate; and the
Corporation shall have full power to authorize such deviations as regards each payee separately.      5.06  Obligation to Pay Amounts
Hereunder .       

(a)  
  No trust fund, escrow account, or other segregation of assets need be established or made by the Corporation to guarantee, secure, or assure the payment of any amount
payable hereunder. The Corporation s obligation to make payments pursuant to this Plan shall constitute only a general contractual liability of the Corporation to individuals entitled to benefits hereunder and other actual or possible payees
hereunder in accordance with the terms hereof. Payments hereunder shall be made only from such funds of the Corporation as it shall determine, and no individual entitled to benefits hereunder shall have any interest in any particular asset of the
Corporation by reason of the existence of this Plan. It is expressly understood as a condition for receipt of any benefits under this Plan that the Corporation is not obligated to create a trust fund or escrow account, or to segregate any asset of
the Corporation in any fashion.         

(b)  
  The Corporation may, in its sole discretion, establish segregated funds, escrow accounts, or trust funds whose primary purpose would be for the provision of benefits
under this Plan. If such funds or accounts are established, however, individuals entitled to benefits hereunder shall not have any identifiable interest in any such funds or accounts nor shall such individuals be entitled to any preference or
priority with respect to the assets of such funds or accounts. These funds and accounts would still be available to judgment creditors of the Corporation and to all creditors in the event of the Corporation s insolvency or bankruptcy.

(c)  
  A former Employee is not entitled to a benefit under this Plan to the extent that the liability for such benefit has been transferred to or assumed by a successor to
all or any portion of the business of the Corporation.        5.07  Administration .   

(a)  
   Administrative Provisions of Defined Benefit Plans . To the extent consistent with the purposes and provisions of this Plan and as may be deemed necessary or
advisable in the best judgment of the Corporation, the Plan shall be operated under the Administrative and General Provisions of the Defined Benefit Plans.     
         8   

(b)  
   Claims Procedures . Any application for benefits, inquiries about the Plan or inquiries about present or future rights under the Plan must be submitted in writing
to the person or persons (the  Claims Administrator ) selected by the Corporation or, at the election of the Corporation, by the Corporation s Employee Benefit Appeals Committee (the Company or such Employee Benefit Appeals Committee
being hereinafter referred to as the  Committee ), as follows:         

(i)  
  In the event that any application for benefits is denied in whole or in part, the Claims Administrator must notify the applicant, in written or electronic format, of
the denial of the application, and of the applicant s right to review the denial. The notice of denial will be set forth in a manner designed to be understood by the applicant, and will include specific reasons for the denial, specific
references to the Plan provision upon which the denial is based, a description of any information or material that the Claims Administrator needs to complete the review, and an explanation of the Plan s review procedure.

(ii)  
  This notice will be given to the applicant within ninety (90) days after the Claims Administrator receives the application, unless special circumstances require an
extension of time, in which case, the Claims Administrator has up to an additional ninety (90) days for processing the application. If an extension of time for processing is required, written or electronic notice of the extension will be
furnished to the applicant before the end of the initial ninety (90)-day period.         

(iii)  
  This notice of extension will describe the special circumstances necessitating the additional time and the date by which the Claims Administrator is to render his or
her decision on the application. The applicant will then be permitted to appeal the denial in accordance with the Review Procedure described below.         

(iv)  
  Any person (or that person s authorized representative) for whom an application for benefits is denied, in whole or in part, may appeal the denial by submitting a
request for a review to the Claims Administrator within 60 days after the application is denied. The Claims Administrator will give the applicant (or his or her representative) a reasonable opportunity for a full and fair review of a claim and
adverse benefit determination, including: (A) the opportunity to submit written comments, documents, records and other information relating to the claim for benefits; (B) the provision, upon request and free of charge, of reasonable access
to and copies of, all documents, records and other information relevant to the claimant s claim for benefits, and (C) a review that takes into account all comments, documents, records, and other information submitted by the claimant
relating to the claim, without regard to whether such information was submitted or considered in the initial benefit determination. A request for a review shall be in writing and shall be addressed to:     
         9   

(v)  
  A request for review must set forth all of the grounds on which it is based, all facts in support of the request and any other matters that the applicant feels are
pertinent. The Claims Administrator may require the applicant to submit additional facts, documents or other material as he or she may find necessary or appropriate in making his or her review.     

(vi)  
  The Claims Administrator will act on each request for review within sixty (60) days after receipt of the request, unless special circumstances require an extension
of time (not to exceed an additional sixty (60) days), for processing the request for a review. If an extension for review is required, written or electronic notice of the extension will be furnished to the applicant within the initial sixty
(60)-day period. The Claims Administrator will give prompt, written or electronic notice of his or her decision to the applicant. In the event that the Claims Administrator confirms the denial of the application for benefits in whole or in part, the
notice will outline, in a manner calculated to be understood by the applicant: (A) the specific reason or reasons for the adverse determination, (B) the specific Plan provisions upon which the decision is based, (C) a description of
any additional material or information necessary for the claimant to perfect the claim and an explanation of why such material or information is necessary, (D) a description of the Plan s review procedures and the time limits applicable to
such procedures, including a statement of the claimant s right to bring a civil action under Section 502(a) of ERISA following an adverse benefit determination on review.     

(vii)  
  The Claims Administrator may establish rules and procedures, consistent with the Plan and with ERISA, as necessary and appropriate in carrying out his or her
responsibilities in reviewing benefit claims. The Claims Administrator may require an applicant who wishes to submit additional information in connection with an appeal from the denial of benefits to do so at the applicant s own expense.

(viii)  
  No legal action for benefits under the Plan may be brought until the applicant (A) has submitted a written application for benefits in accordance with the
procedures described by paragraph (i) above, (B) has been notified by the Claims Administrator that the application is denied, (C) has filed a written request for a review of the application in accordance with the appeal procedure
described in paragraph (iv) above and (D) has been notified in writing or electronically that the Claims Administrator has denied the appeal.     
         10   

(c)  
   Committee . Unless otherwise provided by the Corporation, the Committee shall rule in place of the Corporation and the Committee s ruling shall be the final
decision of the Corporation. Benefits shall be paid under the Plan only if the Corporation or the Committee in its sole discretion, determines that a Participant is entitled to them. There shall be no duplication of benefits between this Plan and
its Appendices and any other plan or agreement with the Corporation or its Subsidiaries for the same period of service unless otherwise specifically stated in the Plan, Appendices or such other plan or agreement.     
   SECTION 6    
    AMENDMENT AND TERMINATION OF PLAN        6.01  Amendment . The Chairman of the Board of Directors of the Corporation reserves the right to modify or amend this Plan in whole or in part, effective as of any specified date; provided, however,
that the Chairman shall have no authority to modify or amend the Plan with respect to the benefit provided by Section 3.03 to:       

(a)  
  reduce any benefit accrued hereunder based on service and compensation to the date of amendment unless such action is necessary to prevent this Plan from being subject
to any provision of Title I, Subtitle B, Parts 2, 3 or 4 of ERISA;         

(b)  
  permit the accrual, holding or payment of actual shares of General Dynamics Corporation common stock under the Plan.     
  6.02  Termination .       

(a)  
  The Chairman of the Board of Directors of the Corporation reserves the right to terminate this Plan, in whole or in part. This Plan shall be automatically terminated
upon a dissolution of the Corporation (but not upon a merger, consolidation, reorganization, recapitalization, or acquisition of a controlling interest in the voting stock of the Corporation by another); upon the Corporation being legally
adjudicated as bankrupt; upon the appointment of a receiver or trustee in bankruptcy with respect to the Corporation s assets and business if such appointment is not set aside within ninety (90) days thereafter; or upon the making by the
Corporation of an assignment for the benefit of creditors.         

(b)  
  Upon termination of this Plan, no additional Employees shall become entitled to receive all benefits hereunder; and all benefits accrued through the date of termination
(calculated as if the date of such termination were the date on which the Employee s employment ceased) will become non-forfeitable.        6.03  Delegation . The Chairman of the Board of Directors of the Corporation may delegate his powers under this Section 6 by written delegation.   
  6.04  Section 409A . It is intended that any income or payments provided pursuant to the Plan will not be subject to the additional tax and
interest under Code Section 409A, and all regulations issued thereunder and applicable guidance thereto ( Section 409A ), and the Plan shall be   
         11   

interpreted and construed on a basis consistent with such intent. The preceding shall not be construed as a guarantee of any particular tax treatment of any amounts paid or payable hereunder.
  
         12   

Appendix A     
  (Defined Benefit Plans Subject to the Provisions of Section 3.03)      The following Defined Benefit Plans are subject to the provisions of Section 3.03. Where noted, the benefits related to the inclusion of these Defined Benefit Plans under this Plan provide
supplemental benefits related to corporate acquisitions or, as applicable, supersede the applicability of the provisions of the indicated prior plan providing similar coverage and as such represent an amendment and restatement of such plan.
Likewise, where noted, the provisions of Section 3.03 are modified to the extent specified in this Appendix.       

Defined Benefit Plan    
      
     Modifications and Effective Date     

General Dynamics Salaried Retirement Plan Corporate Legacy Provisions (known prior to January 1, 2007 as General Dynamics Corporation Retirement Plan for Salaried
Employees)  
      
  Effective Date: January 1, 1983.   

Retirement Plan for the Resources Group Salaried Employees  
      
  Effective Date: January 1, 1983.   

General Dynamics Salaried Retirement Plan ATS Legacy Provisions (known prior to January 1, 2007 as Retirement Plan for Management/Technical Employees of General Dynamics
Advanced Technology Systems, Inc., the Plan hereby supersedes the Lucent Technologies Inc. Non-Qualified Pension Plan)  
      
  Effective Date: October 1, 1997.   

General Dynamics Salaried Retirement Plan Armament Systems and Defense Systems Legacy Provisions (known prior to January 1, 2007 as Retirement Plan for Salaried Employees,
AS/DS Legacy Provisions, which superseded the Retirement Plan for Non-Represented Employees of General Dynamics Armament/Defense Systems, the Plan hereby supersedes the Martin Marietta Corporation Supplemental Excess Retirement Plan)  
      
  Effective Date: January 1, 1997.   

General Dynamics Salaried Retirement Plan BIW Legacy Provisions (known prior to January 1, 2007 as Bath Iron Works Corporation Pension Plan for Salaried
Employees)  
      
  The benefit under Section 3.03 is determined taking into account post December 31, 1996 benefit service only. Effective Date: January 1,
1997.    
         A-1

Defined Benefit Plan    
      
     Modifications and Effective Date     

General Dynamics Salaried Retirement Plan Decision Systems Traditional Legacy Provisions (known prior to January 1, 2007 as Retirement Plan for General Dynamics Decision
Systems, Inc. Traditional Legacy Provisions, which superseded a part of the Retirement Plan for General Dynamics Decision Systems, Inc., the Plan hereby supersedes the Motorola Supplemental Pension Plan)  
      
  For Employees that participated and were vested in a benefit under the Motorola Elected Officers Supplementary Retirement Plan as of September 27, 2001 the benefit under
Section 3.03 is determined taking into account post September 27, 2001 benefit service only. Effective Date: September 28, 2001.   

General Dynamics Salaried Retirement Plan Decision Systems Portable Legacy Provisions (known prior to January 1, 2007 as General Dynamics Salaried Retirement Plan for
Legacy Decision Systems Portable Plan Employees, which superseded a part of the Retirement Plan for General Dynamics Decision Systems, Inc., the Plan hereby supersedes the Motorola Supplemental Pension Plan)  
      
  For Employees that participated and were vested in a benefit under the Motorola Elected Officers Supplementary Retirement Plan as of September 27, 2001 the benefit under
Section 3.03 is determined taking into account post September 27, 2001 benefit service only. Effective Date: September 28, 2001.   

General Dynamics Salaried Retirement Plan GDIS Legacy Provisions (known prior to January 1, 2007 as Retirement Plan for General Dynamics Information Systems, Inc., the
Plan hereby supersedes the Ceridian Corporation Benefit Equalization Plan)  
      
  The benefit under Section 3.03 is determined taking into account compensation described in Section 3.03 and, in addition, any amount that would have otherwise been paid as base
salary or bonus but for the Participant s election pursuant to the Ceridian Corporation Deferred Compensation Plan. Effective Date: January 1, 1998.   

General Dynamics Salaried Retirement Plan GSC Legacy Provisions (known prior to January 1, 2007 as Retirement Plan for Salaried Employees, GSC Legacy Provisions, which
superseded the Retirement Plan for General Dynamics Government Systems Corporation, the Plan hereby supersedes the GTE Excess Pension Plan)  
      
  The benefit under Section 3.03 is determined based on the normal form of payment. The benefit under Section 3.03 is determined taking into account compensation described in Section
3.03 and, in addition, certain forms of compensation not covered under the Defined Benefit Plan prior to 1995. Optional forms of payment for Grandfathered Amounts are calculated independently of the Defined Benefit Plan but using the same
adjustments as provided under that plan, but otherwise based on Section 3 of the Plan. Effective Date: September 1, 1999.   

General Dynamics Salaried Retirement Plan Muskegon Legacy Provisions (known prior to January 1, 2007 as Retirement Plan for Salaried Employees of GDLS Muskegon
Operations)  
      
  The benefit under Section 3.03 is determined taking into account post March 31, 1996 benefit service only. Effective Date: April 1,
1996.    
         A-2

Defined Benefit Plan    
      
     Modifications and Effective Date     

General Dynamics Salaried Retirement Plan NASSCO Legacy Provisions (known prior to January 1, 2007 as NASSCO Retirement Plan, the Plan hereby supersedes the NASSCO
Supplemental Retirement Plan)  
      
  Only Employees designated by National Steel and Shipbuilding Corporation shall be eligible for the benefit under Section 3.03. Effective Date: November 10,
1998.   

General Dynamics Salaried Retirement Plan Saco Legacy Provisions (known prior to January 1, 2007 as Retirement Plan for Salaried Employees of General Dynamics Armament
Systems Saco Operations)  
      
  The benefit under Section 3.03 is determined taking into account post December 31, 2000 benefit service only. Effective Date: January 1, 2001.   

General Dynamics Salaried Retirement Plan OTS Garland Legacy Provisions (known prior to January 1, 2007 as Retirement Plan for Salaried Employees of General Dynamics
Ordnance and Tactical Systems, Inc. (Garland))  
      
  The benefit under Section 3.03 is determined taking into account post September 3, 2003 benefit service only. Effective Date: September 4, 2003.   

General Dynamics Salaried Retirement Plan  
      
  Effective Date: January 1, 2007.    
         A-3

Appendix B     
  (Bath Iron Works Corporation)   
  B-1.  Purpose, Superseding Provision . The purpose of this Appendix B is to describe certain benefits that were previously described in the Bath
Iron Works Corporation Supplemental Executive Retirement Program (Principal Officers, Tier I, and Tier II Employees) (the  Bath SERP ) as of December 31, 1996, that are being provided for those Employees of Bath Iron Works Corporation
( Bath ) who continue in employment with the Corporation on or after January 1, 2005. The provisions applicable to employees who have terminated or retired prior to January 1, 2005, continue to be described by the provisions
of the plan as it existed prior to January 1, 2005.      This Appendix forms a part of the Plan to which it is attached and its terms shall
supersede other provisions of the Plan to the extent such other provisions are inconsistent with this Appendix.      B-2.  Definitions .
Capitalized terms in this Appendix not defined elsewhere in the Plan shall have the meaning assigned to them below.       

(1)  
   Annuity Value of the Non-Program Benefits . The  Annuity Value  of any Non-Program Benefit is twelve times the initial monthly amount expressed as a
straight life annuity commencing at the time that Bath SERP benefits under this Appendix B commence.         

(2)  
   Annuity Value of the Social Security Benefit . The Annuity Value of the Social Security Benefit is twelve times the initial monthly amount shown on the Notice of
Award from the Social Security Administration commencing at the time such Social Security Benefit becomes Receivable. The Tier II Employee shall provide the Corporation with a copy of such Notice of Award prior to the time such Social Security
Benefit becomes Receivable.         

(3)  
   Average Earnings .  Average Earnings  for purposes of determining the Bath SERP benefit for a Tier II Employee means the average of the highest
thirty-six (36) consecutive months of Earnings within the sixty-month (60) period immediately preceding retirement, death, or disability, multiplied by twelve (12).     

(4)  
     Earnings .  Earnings  for each month includes base salary for such month plus one-twelfth (   1   /  12  ) of the amount earned under the General Dynamics Corporation
Second Amended and Restated 1997 Incentive Compensation Plan for the calendar year in which such month occurs.           

(5)  
   Base Plans .  Base Plans  are the General Dynamics Salaried Retirement Plan, the General Dynamics Salaried Retirement Plan BIW Legacy Provisions
(known prior to January 1, 2007, as the Bath Iron Works Corporation Pension Plan for Salaried Employees), and the Bath Iron Works Corporation Pension Plan for Hourly Employees.     
         B-1

(6)  
   Company .  Company  means Bath Iron Works Corporation and its predecessor, Congoleum Corporation and CC Liquidating Corp.     

(7)  
   Credited Service .  Credited Service  means the period of an employee s continuous service from his most recent date of employment, in any
capacity, with the Corporation. Credited service will include any period prior to the earliest of the Tier II Employee s attaining age sixty-five (65), voluntary retirement, or voluntary termination of employment.     

(8)  
   Early Retirement Date .  Early Retirement Date  means any date prior to Normal Retirement Date on which the Tier II Employee s employment with the
Corporation terminates after having attained age fifty-five (55) and completed ten (10) years of Credited Service.         

(9)  
     Executive Service .  Executive Service  means that period of an executive s Credited Service accrued as a Tier II Employee. For
any computation under this Appendix,  Years of Executive Service  and  Years of Projected Executive Service  shall be expressed as a whole number representing the number of full years of Executive Service or Projected Executive
Service, as the case may be, and a fraction representing any partial years treating each calendar month during which the Tier II Employee is employed as a Tier II Employee for at least one-half (   1   /  2  ) of the month as a full month.

(10)  
   Non-Program Benefit .  Non-Program Benefit  means any of the following:     

a.  
  Except to the extent attributable to voluntary contributions by the Tier II Employee, a retirement benefit from any Base Plans, defined benefit or defined contribution
retirement plan maintained by the Corporation or any of its operating units;         

b.  
  A benefit from any individual contract between the Tier II Employee and the Corporation or any of its operating units or any predecessor of any of them providing for
periodic payments from commencement thereof until death (with or without survivor benefits of optional modes of settlement) in the event of retirement or other termination of employment, other than a contract which offsets benefits under Section B-5
against the benefits provided under the contract.         

(11)  
   Normal Retirement Date .  Normal Retirement Date  means the first day of the month following the day a Tier II Employee attains age sixty-five (65).

(12)  
   Projected Executive Service .  Projected Executive Service  means that period of Executive Service which a Tier II Employee would accrue if he should
remain a Tier II Employee covered by this Appendix B until his Normal Retirement Date.         

(13)  
     Receivable . A Social Security Benefit is considered  Receivable  from and after the later of (i) commencement of benefits under
this Appendix B, or (ii) the earliest      
         B-2

date on which such Social Security Benefit is, or upon application, would have been payable to the Tier II Employee.      

(14)  
   Retirement .  Retirement  means any termination of employment with the Corporation on an Early Retirement Date or on or after Normal Retirement Date.
Retirement or other termination of employment shall be  Voluntary  if initiated by the Tier II Employee, or  Involuntary  if initiated by the Corporation notwithstanding that the Tier II Employee shall have consented thereto or
shall have resigned in response to a Corporate initiative.         

(15)  
   Social Security Benefit .  Social Security Benefit  means the Tier II Employee s Primary Insurance Amount, reduced for commencement prior to Social
Security Normal Retirement Age, under the Social Security Act as in effect on the date such benefit becomes Receivable.         

(16)  
   Tier II Employee .  Tier II Employee  means any Company executive whom the Company had designated as a Tier II Employee and remained in such designation
as of September 13, 1995, the date General Dynamics Corporation acquired Bath Iron Works Corporation.        B-3.  Covered
Employees . A Covered Employee is any Employee who has been designated as a Tier II Employee.      B-4.  Amount of Benefit . The amount of
benefits payable to a Tier II Employee shall equal the excess, if any, of (a) the Tier II Benefit payable to such Employee under the provisions described in Section B-5, or in the case of death, the benefit payable on behalf of such Employee
under the provisions described in Section B-7, over (b) the benefit determined in accordance with the provisions of Section 3.03 and Appendix A.      Benefits payable under this Section B-4 shall be in addition to any benefit payable under the provisions of Section 3.03 and Appendix A.      B-5.  Tier II Benefit . The amount of a Covered Employee s Tier II Benefit shall be determined as follows:       

(1)  
     Normal Retirement Benefit . A Tier II Employee retiring under this Appendix B on or after Normal Retirement Date shall receive a monthly Normal
Retirement Benefit equal to one-twelfth
(   1   /  12  ) of the amount determined by:

a.  
  Taking the amount which is fifty percent (50%) of Average Earnings at Normal Retirement Date and reducing such amount by the Annuity Value of the Non-Program
Benefits and by the Annuity Value of the Social Security Benefit; and         

b.  
  Multiplying the amount determined by application of the preceding clause (a) by a fraction, the numerator of which is Years of Executive Service at Normal
Retirement Date to a maximum of fifteen (15), and the denominator of which is fifteen (15).     
         B-3

(2)  
     Early Retirement Benefit . A Tier II Employee retiring under this Appendix B on an Early Retirement Date shall receive a monthly Early Retirement
Benefit equal to one-twelfth (   1   /  12  ) of the
amount determined by:           

a.  
  Taking the amount which is fifty percent (50%) of Average Earnings at Early Retirement Date and subtracting from such amount the product of (i) such amount
times (ii) 0.004 times (iii) the number of full months by which the commencement of benefits under this B-5 precedes age sixty-two (62);         

b.  
  Reducing the amount in the preceding clause (a) by the Annuity Value of the Non-Program Benefits, and further reducing the amount by the Annuity Value of the
Social Security Benefit commencing at the time such Social Security Benefit becomes Receivable; and         

c.  
  Multiplying the amount determined by application of the preceding clauses (a) and (b) by the product of (i) a fraction, the numerator of which is Years
of Executive Service at Early Retirement Date to a maximum of twenty-five (25), and the denominator of which is Years for Projected Executive Service to a maximum of twenty-five (25), times (ii) a fraction, the numerator of which is Years of
Projected Executive Service to a maximum of twenty (20), and the denominator of which is twenty (20).         

(3)  
   Vested Benefit . After completion of five (5) years of Credited Service, a Tier II Employee s rights to benefits under this Appendix B will, subject to
the provisions of this Plan, become fully vested. The benefit payable under this Appendix B to a Tier II Employee who terminates employment prior to his Early Retirement Date will be the same as the Early Retirement Benefit otherwise payable, based
on Years of Executive Service and Average Earnings computed as of the date of termination, except that the multiplicand in clause B-5(2)(a)(iii) shall be the number of full months by which the commencement of benefits under this B-5 precedes age
sixty-five (65).        B-6.  Form and Timing of Benefit .   

(1)  
  The commencement of B-4 benefits payable to a Tier II Employee retiring under this Appendix B shall be determined in accordance with Section 3 of the Plan.

B-7.  Death Benefit . If an active Tier II Employee dies before Retirement and while still employed by the Corporation, his Tier II Benefit used to
determine the benefit payable to his surviving spouse will be a monthly benefit equal to seventy-five percent (75%) of the amount of the Normal Retirement Benefit determined in accordance with B-5 based on the Executive Service and Average
Earnings as of the date of death, and   
         B-4

(1)  
  Assuming that the Tier II Employee is living and that such benefit is payable to him in a straight life annuity commencing on the first day of the month following the
date of death;         

(2)  
  In determining any reduction for the Annuity Value of the Non-Program Benefits and for the Annuity Value of the Social Security Benefit, considering only the Tier II
Employee s Social Security Benefit and those Non-Program Benefits to which the Tier II Employee would then or thereafter become entitled had he been living and terminated his employment on the date of death;     

(3)  
  Assuming that the Social Security Benefit becomes Receivable from and after the date of death, irrespective of whether or not such benefit has actually commenced; and,

(4)  
  Calculating the Annuity Value of the Non-Program Benefits as if the Tier II Employee were living and had terminated his employment on the date of death, basing such
calculation upon the Tier II Employee s employment and earnings history and other circumstances existing at the date of death, but assuming that the Tier II Employee s age is the later of his age at the date of death, the earliest age at
which such Non-Program Benefit would upon application be payable, or age sixty-two (62).        The benefit payable to a surviving
spouse shall be paid monthly commencing on the first day of the month following the month in which the Tier II Employee dies. The last payment to a surviving spouse shall be on the first day of the month in which the surviving spouse dies or
remarries, whichever occurs first.      Upon the Tier II Employee s death if the Tier II Employee s spouse predeceases him, or upon the
earlier of the death or remarriage of such spouse if the Tier II Employee s spouse survives him, if one or more children of the Tier II Employee shall then be living and under twenty-one (21) years of age, an equal share of the Death
Benefit shall be apportioned to each such child who is then living and under age twenty-one (21). The share so apportioned to each child shall be paid to him as a monthly benefit commencing on the first day of the month following the month in which
the Tier II Employee dies or, if his spouse survives him, following the earlier of the month in which such spouse dies or the month in which such spouse remarries. The last payment of a child s monthly benefit under this Appendix shall be on
the first day of the month in which he dies or attains age twenty-one (21), whichever occurs first.      B-8.  Competition . Notwithstanding
anything elsewhere herein contained, if, while employed by the Corporation, a Tier II Employee engages in competitive activities without prior authorization of the Corporation, such Tier II Employee, his surviving spouse, his children, and any
contingent annuitant designated by him shall be entitled to no further benefits hereunder. For such purpose, to  engage in competitive activities  shall mean, directly or indirectly, to own, manage, operate, control, or participate in the
ownership, management, operation, or control of, or be connected as an officer, employee, partner, director, or otherwise with, or have any financial interest in, or aid or assist anyone else in the conduct of, any business which competes with, or
which contemplates competition with, any business conducted by the Corporation, or be any group,   
         B-5

division or subsidiary of the Corporation, in any area where such business is being conducted by the Corporation at the time of such termination. For the purposes of the foregoing provisions,
ownership of not more than two percent (2%) of the voting stock of any publicly held corporation shall not be considered engaging in competitive activities.   
         B-6

Appendix C     
  (General Dynamics Information Systems, Inc.)      C-1.  Purpose, Superseding Provision . The purpose of this Appendix C is to provide for certain provisions for those Employees of General Dynamics Information Systems, Inc. ( GDIS )
described below. This Appendix forms a part of the Plan to which it is attached and its terms shall supersede other provisions of the Plan to the extent such other provisions are inconsistent with this Appendix.   
  Notwithstanding anything contained herein to the contrary, pursuant to the Personnel Agreement dated December 31, 1997, between Ceridian Corporation
and General Dynamics Corporation (the  Personnel Agreement ), and the March 17, 1998 letter agreement between Ceridian Corporation and General Dynamics Corporation, participants in the Ceridian Corporation Deferred Compensation Plan
(the  Deferred Compensation Plan ) listed on Schedule 4.2(c) of the Personnel Agreement who went to work for General Dynamics Corporation shall have their benefits under the Deferred Compensation Plan paid in accordance with the provisions
of the Deferred Compensation Plan as it existed as of December 31, 1997. The benefits for Employees covered by these provisions are in addition to any benefits that may be provided under Section 3.03 of the Plan.   
         C-1

Appendix D     
  (General Dynamics Government Systems Corporation)      D-1.  Purpose, Superseding Provision . Effective September 1, 1999, the purpose of this Appendix D is to provide for certain provisions for those Employees of General Dynamics Government Systems
Corporation ( GSC ) described below (the  Appendix D Employees ). This Appendix forms a part of the Plan to which it is attached and its terms shall supersede other provisions of the Plan to the extent such other provisions are
inconsistent with this Appendix. This Appendix consists of two parts: (i) an ISEP Executive Minimum and (ii) an Executive Retired Life Insurance Plan (each a  Part  and collectively  Parts ). Both such Parts provide
benefits for Employees covered by these provisions, benefits that are in addition to any benefits that may be provided under Section 3.03 of the Plan. An Appendix D Employee will participate under a Part or Parts based on the eligibility
provisions of that Part.      D-2.  Definitions . Capitalized terms in this Appendix not defined elsewhere in the Plan shall have the meaning
assigned to them below.       

(1)  
   Administrator  shall mean the Corporation, or the person (including but not limited to GSC) to whom administrative duties are delegated to by the
Corporation.         

(2)  
   Base Salary  shall mean the Appendix D Employee s annual basic remuneration (exclusive of overtime, differentials, premiums and other similar types of
payment, but inclusive of commissions and bonuses on account of sales when received by an Appendix D Employee pursuant to a written commitment of his or her employer).     

(3)  
   GSC Legacy Plan  means the General Dynamics Salaried Retirement Plan GSC Legacy Provisions (known from January 1, 2005 to January 1, 2007 as
the Retirement Plan for Salaried Employees, GSC Legacy Provisions and prior to January 1, 2005 as the Retirement Plan for General Dynamics Government Systems Corporation).     

(4)  
   GSC Qualified Plan  means the Retirement Plan for General Dynamics Government Systems Corporation effective September 1, 1999.     

(5)  
   GTE Executive Life Insurance Plan  means the GTE Executive Life Insurance Plan effective January 1, 1979.     

(6)  
   Predecessor Company  shall mean, for periods prior to September 1, 1999, the GTE Government Systems Corporation and any Affiliate as defined by the GTE
Government Systems Corporation Pension Plan for Salaried Employees at August 31, 1999.         ISEP Executive
Minimum       D-3.  Covered Employees . For purposes of this part, an Appendix D Employee is an Employee who is a member of a select group
of management or highly compensated employees of GSC and   
         D-1

who Separates as a Special Separatee under Section 9 of the GSC Qualified Plan prior to December 31, 2002, regardless of whether he is eligible to receive a Retirement Benefit under the
GSC Qualified Plan.      D-4.  Benefit . The benefit payable to an eligible Appendix D Employee under this Part shall be a single life
annuity equal to the Actuarial Equivalent Value (as described in (3)(a) below) of the excess, if any, of (1) over (2) as follows:       

(1)  
  The product of (a) times (b) as follows:         

(a)  
  The Appendix D Employee s annual rate of compensation as of the day immediately preceding the Appendix D Employee s Separation Date, as defined in the GSC
Qualified Plan, whereby the annual rate of compensation shall be determined by including only the types of remuneration included in determining Modified Average Annual Compensation under the GSC Qualified Plan, but for periods prior to
September 1, 1999, without regard to awards from the Predecessor Company under the Management Incentive Plan, the International Team Incentive Program, and the GTE Investment Management Corporation Incentive Plan, times

(b)  
  The Payment Ratio (as described in (3)(b) below) for the Appendix D Employee; over     

(2)  
  The ISEP Lump Sum as defined by Section 9 of the GSC Qualified Plan (plus the portion of such ISEP Lump Sum attributable to Appendix A), determined without regard
to any reduction in the ISEP Lump Sum attributable to a failure to execute a Separation Agreement and General Release there under.         

(3)  
  For purposes of this D-4, the following shall apply:         

(a)  
  The Actuarial Equivalent Value shall be determined in the same manner as it is determined for purposes of calculating the ISEP Annuity under Section 9 of the GSC
Qualified Plan.         

(b)  
  The Payment Ratio shall be determined as follows based on the Appendix D Employee s career band and Base Salary at termination:     

D-2

(4)  
  The amounts determined under D-4 shall be reduced to 50% of the amounts determined unless the Appendix D Employee (or, if applicable, the Appendix D Employee s
personal representative) executes a Separation Agreement and General Release pursuant to the requirements of Section 9 of the GSC Qualified Plan.        D-5.  Timing of Benefit . An Appendix D Employee, surviving spouse or designated beneficiary who is entitled to an ISEP Executive Minimum benefit under this Part shall be paid such ISEP Executive
Minimum benefit under this Part when benefits become due and payable to such person under the GSC Qualified Plan.      D-6.  Form of
Benefit . Any benefits payable pursuant to this Part shall be paid under the same conditions and restrictions as would apply to the benefits if they were provided by the GSC Qualified Plan at the time of retirement, subject to the following:

(1)  
  An Appendix D Employee shall have the right to elect to receive benefits under this Part in any one of the forms provided under the GSC Qualified Plan provided that an
annuity option shall be available under this Part only if the Appendix D Employee elects the annuity payment option prior to such Appendix D Employee s termination of employment.     

(2)  
  Notwithstanding D-6 (1), if the Appendix D Employee is also entitled to a benefit pursuant to the provisions of Appendix A, then both the benefit attributable to
Appendix A and the benefit attributable to this Part of Appendix D must be paid at the same time and under the same optional form.         

(3)  
  If an Appendix D Employee elects to receive benefits under this Part in a form other than a single life annuity, the benefits shall be computed so as to be the
Actuarial Equivalent of such benefits in the form of a single life annuity using the actuarial tables and interest rates then in effect under the GSC Qualified Plan.     
   Executive Retired Life Insurance Plan       D-7.  Covered Employees . For purposes of this Part, an Appendix D Employee is an Employee of GSC who as of June 21, 1999, participated in the GTE Executive Retired Life Insurance Plan (the
 ERLIP ) and whose combined age and years of service as of June 21, 1999, was at least 66 or who was otherwise within five years of eligibility for the ERLIP as of that date.      In order to be eligible to obtain benefits under this Part, an Appendix D Employee must retire pursuant to the terms of the GSC Legacy Plan, provided however that retirement with a deferred vested benefit
shall not be deemed to satisfy this provision except in the case of a participant who terminates employment with GSC having attained age 60 with at least 10 years of service.      D-8.  Benefit . A participant eligible to receive benefits under this Part shall receive non-contributory life insurance benefits under the following schedule:   
         D-3

The Administrator, in
its sole discretion, may amend the above schedule.      Any Appendix D Employee who is demoted, downgraded, transferred or assigned to a position,
whether or not such position is eligible to participate in this Part, may under extraordinary circumstances as determined by the Administrator, remain eligible to receive benefits based upon his highest salary grade and Base Salary while
participating in this Part.      D-9.  Timing of Benefit . An Appendix D Employee who satisfies the criteria in D-7 of this Part shall
receive benefits only upon retirement pursuant to the terms of the GSC Legacy Plan. The benefits under this Part shall be in lieu of any other life insurance coverage provided for retired employees by GSC.   
  D-10.  Form of Benefit . The benefit provided by this Part is in the form of non-contributory life insurance. However, an Appendix D Employee
eligible to receive benefits under this Part may elect with respect to Grandfathered Amounts to convert all or part of this life insurance benefit to a supplementary retirement benefit as follows:   

(1)  
  An Appendix D Employee may with respect to Grandfathered Amounts elect to receive a supplementary retirement benefit in any form provided under the GSC Legacy Plan as
of December 31, 2004, or in two to thirty annual installments, or as otherwise may be approved by the Administrator. The supplementary retirement benefit shall be based upon the present value of the life insurance benefit defined in this Part,
using the actuarial tables and interest rates then in effect for the GSC Legacy Plan.         

(2)  
  In the event that an Appendix D Employee elects to receive a supplementary retirement benefit with respect to Grandfathered Amounts other than in the single life
annuity form and/or other than at age 65, the amount of such benefits shall be actuarially adjusted using the actuarial table and interest rates then in effect for the GSC Legacy Plan.     

(3)  
    If an Appendix D Employee elects to receive with respect to Grandfathered Amounts a supplementary retirement benefit in an installment form and dies
prior to the payment of all installments, any unpaid installments shall be paid to the Appendix D Employee s beneficiary or, in the absence of a designated beneficiary, to the Appendix D Employee s estate. The designated beneficiary shall
have the option, in accordance with Section 3.03 of the Plan, to continue to receive annual      
         D-4

payments for the period elected by the Appendix D Employee or to receive the unpaid installments in a lump sum. In the event that a lump sum is elected, the lump sum will be adjusted using the
actuarial tables and interest rates then in effect for the GSC Legacy Plan.      
         D-5

Appendix E     
  (General Dynamics Armament Systems and General Dynamics Defense Systems)      E-1.  Purpose, Superseding Provision . The purpose of this Appendix E is to describe certain benefits that were previously described in the Martin Marietta Supplementary Pension Plan for Employees of
Transferred GE Operations as of December 31, 1996, that are being provided to certain employees who continue in employment with the Corporation on or after January 1, 2005. The provisions applicable to employees who have terminated or
retired prior to January 1, 2005, continue to be described by the provisions of the plan as it existed prior to January 1, 2005.   
  This Appendix forms a part of the Plan to which it is attached and its terms shall supersede other provisions of the Plan to the extent such other
provisions are inconsistent with this Appendix.      E-2.  Definitions . Capitalized terms in this Appendix not defined elsewhere in the Plan
shall have the meaning assigned to them below.       

(1)  
     Annual Estimated Social Security Benefit .  Annual Estimated Social Security Benefit  shall mean the annual equivalent of the maximum
possible Primary Insurance Amount payable, after reduction for early retirement, as an old-age benefit to an employee who retired at age sixty-two (62) on January 1   st    of the calendar year in which occurred the Employee s actual date of retirement or death, whichever is earlier.
Such Annual Estimated Social Security Benefit shall be determined by the Corporation in accordance with the Federal Social Security Act in effect at the end of the calendar year immediately preceding such January 1   st   .      
  If an Employee has less than thirty-five (35) years of Credited Service, the Annual Estimated Social Security Benefit shall be the
amount determined under the first paragraph hereof multiplied by a fraction, the numerator of which shall be the number of years of the Employee s Credited Service to his date of retirement or death, whichever is earlier, and the denominator of
which shall be thirty-five (35).      The Annual Estimated Social Security Benefit as so determined shall be adjusted to include
any social security, severance or similar benefit provided under foreign law or regulation as the Corporation may prescribe by rules and regulations issued with respect to this Plan.   

(2)  
   Annual Retirement Income .  Annual Retirement Income  shall mean the amount determined by multiplying 1.75% of the Employee s Average Annual
Compensation by the number of years of Credited Service completed by the Employee at the date of his retirement or death, whichever is earlier.         

(3)  
     Average Annual Compensation .  Average Annual Compensation  means one-third of the Employee s Compensation for the highest
thirty-six (36) consecutive months during the last one-hundred twenty (120) months before his date of retirement or death, whichever is earlier. In computing the Average Annual Compensation, normal straight-time earnings shall be
substituted for actual      
         E-1

Compensation for any month in which such normal straight-time earnings are greater.          

(4)  
   Benefit Eligibility Service .  Benefit Eligibility Service  shall have the same meaning herein as Benefit Eligibility Service in the Legacy Plan.

(5)  
   Compensation .  Compensation  for the purposes of the Supplementary Pension defined in this Appendix E shall mean salary, including any deferred salary
approved by the Corporation as compensation for purposes of the Supplementary Pension benefit, plus         

a.  
  For Employees then eligible for Incentive Compensation, the total amount of any Incentive Compensation earned except to the extent such Incentive Compensation is
excluded by the Corporation;         

b.  
  For Employees who would then have been eligible for Incentive Compensation if they had not been participants in a Sales Commission Plan or other variable compensation
plan, the total amount of sales commissions (or other variable compensation) earned;         

c.  
  For all other Employees, the sales commissions and other variable compensation earned by them but only to the extent such earnings were then included under the Martin
Marietta Corporation Retirement Income Plan II, plus any amounts (other than salary and those mentioned in clauses (a) and (b) above) which were then included as compensation under the Martin Marietta Corporation Retirement Income Plan II
except any amounts which the Corporation may exclude from the computation of  Compensation  and subject to the powers of the Corporation.         

(6)  
   Credited Service .  Credited Service  shall have the same meaning herein as in the Legacy Plan. Credited Service shall include periods of Plan
Membership as defined under the Legacy Plan.         

(7)  
   Legacy Plan .  Legacy Plan  shall mean the General Dynamics Salaried Retirement Plan Armament Systems and Defense Systems Legacy Provisions (known
from January 1, 2005 to January 1, 2007 as the Retirement Plan for Salaried Employees, AS/DS Legacy Provisions and prior to January 1, 2005, as the Retirement Plan for Non-Represented Employees of General Dynamics Armament/Defense
Systems).         

(8)  
   Salaried Plan .  Salaried Plan  shall mean the General Dynamics Salaried Retirement Plan effective January 1, 2007.     

(9)  
   Vesting Service .  Vesting Service  shall have the same meaning herein as Continuous Service in the Legacy Plan.     
  E-3.  Covered Employees . An Appendix E Employee is an Employee who was covered by the Martin Marietta Supplementary Pension Plan for Employees of
Transferred GE Operations prior to January 1, 1997, and who is a Transferred Lockheed Martin Employee as defined in the   
         E-2

Retirement Plan for Non-Represented Employees of General Dynamics Armament/Defense Systems, as amended and restated effective January 1, 2001.   
  E-4.  Amount of Benefit . Subject to the limitation described in (5) below, the amount of the Supplementary Pension shall be as follows.

(1)  
   Normal Retirement Benefit . The annual Supplementary Pension payable to an Appendix E Employee retiring on or after his Normal Retirement Date as defined under
the Legacy Plan shall be equal to the excess, if any, of the Employee s Annual Retirement Income over the sum of:         

a.  
  The annual pension payable under the Legacy Plan (as a single life annuity);     

b.  
  The annual pension payable under the Salaried Plan (as a single life annuity);     

c.  
    One-half
(   1   /  2  ) of the Employee s Annual Estimated
Social Security Benefit;           

d.  
  The Employee s Personal Pension Account annuity as defined in the Legacy Plan (as a single life annuity); and     

e.  
  The Employee s annual benefit, if any, determined in accordance with the provisions of Section 3.03 and Appendix A (as a single life annuity).

(2)  
   Early Retirement Benefit After Age Sixty (60) . The annual Supplementary Pension payable to an Appendix E Employee who, following the attainment of age sixty
(60), retires on an optional retirement date under the Legacy Plan, shall be computed in the manner provided by (1) above (for an Employee retiring on or after his Normal Retirement Date) but taking into account only Credited Service and
Average Annual Compensation to the actual date of optional retirement and, for purposes of the Legacy Plan offset in (1)(a), excluding the early retirement supplement described in sections 2.3(a)(ii) and 2.3(b)(ii) of the Legacy Plan.

(3)  
   Early Retirement Benefit Before Age Sixty (60) . The annual Supplementary Pension payable to an Appendix E Employee who retires following the attainment of age
fifty-five (55), but before attainment of age sixty (60), shall be equal to the excess, if any, of the Employee s Annual Retirement Income multiplied by an early retirement reduction factor described in (a), over the sum of (b) through
(f), where (a) through (f) are as follows:         

a.  
    The earlier retirement reduction factor shall equal the product of (i) one-twelfth (   1   /  12  ) of the number of complete months by which commencement of
the Supplementary Benefit precedes the attainment of age sixty (60) and (ii) seven percent (7%) minus the smaller of three and one-half percent (3.5%) or fourteen hundredths percent (0.14%) times complete years of Benefit
Eligibility Service in excess of five (5).       
         E-3

b.  
  The annual pension payable under the Legacy Plan (as a single life annuity and excluding the early retirement supplement described in sections 2.3(a)(ii) and 2.3(b)(ii)
of the Legacy Plan);         

c.  
  The annual pension payable under the Salaried Plan (as a single life annuity);     

d.  
    One-half
(   1   /  2  ) of the Employee s Annual Estimated
Social Security Benefit;           

e.  
  The Employee s Personal Pension Account annuity as defined in the Legacy Plan (as a single life annuity); and     

f.  
  The Employee s annual benefit, if any, determined in accordance with the provisions of Section 3.03 and Appendix A (as a single life annuity).
       Except as provided by the Special Retirement provisions in (4) below, an Appendix E Employee who retires
before the first day of the month following attainment of age fifty-five (55) or who terminates employment before attainment of age fifty-five (55) shall not be eligible for the Supplementary Pension under this Appendix E.   

(4)  
   Special Retirement . An Appendix E Employee who is laid off due to a reduction in force, a plant closing or lack of work after reaching age fifty (50) and
having completed at least twenty-five (25) years of Vesting Service is eligible for a Supplementary Pension commencing as early as age fifty-five (55). The Supplementary Pension shall be determined by (3) above except taking into account
the following:         

a.  
  The Average Annual Compensation shall be based on the last one hundred twenty (120) completed months before his termination date;     

b.  
  The Annual Estimated Social Security Benefit shall be determined as though the Employee s retirement date was the date of termination; and

c.  
  The early retirement reduction factor shall be based on the age at which the Supplementary Pension benefit actually commences.     

(5)  
   Limitation on Benefit . Notwithstanding any provision of this Plan to the contrary, if the sum of (a) through (g) defined as follows exceeds sixty
percent (60%) of the Employee s Average Annual Compensation, then the Employee s Supplementary Pension shall be reduced by the amount of such excess, but not less than zero (0). In cases of retirement before age sixty (60), then for
purposes of this limitation the sixty-percent (60%) of Average Annual Compensation shall be reduced by the same early retirement reduction factor described in (3)(a).     

a.  
  The Supplementary Pension (calculated after application of any reduction factor for early retirement) otherwise payable hereunder;     
         E-4

b.  
  The annual pension payable under the Legacy Plan (as a single life annuity and excluding the early retirement supplement described in sections 2.3(a)(ii) and 2.3(b)(ii)
of the Legacy Plan)         

c.  
  The annual pension payable under the Salaried Plan (as a single life annuity);     

d.  
  The Employee s Annual Estimated Social Security Benefit, but before any adjustment for less than 35 years of service;     

e.  
  The Employee s Personal Pension Account annuity as defined in the Legacy Plan (as a single life annuity);     

f.  
  The Employee s annual benefit, if any, determined in accordance with the provisions of Section 3.03 and Appendix A (as a single life annuity); and

g.  
  The Employee s annual benefit (as a single life annuity), if any, payable under any other annual pension (or the annual pension equivalent of other forms of
payment) payable under any other pension plan, policy, contract, or government program sponsored by the Corporation.        E-5.
 Form and Timing of Benefit.        

(1)  
  An Appendix E Employee may elect to receive the Supplementary Pension benefit with respect to Grandfathered Amounts as a life annuity (the normal form) or in any one of
the optional forms permitted under the provisions of Section 5.4 of the Legacy Plan (optional forms for the TOPS Benefit). Non-Grandfathered Amounts shall be distributed in a form determined in accordance with Sections 3.04, 3.05, and 3.07 of
the Plan.         

(2)  
  The timing of the Supplementary Pension benefit payable to an Appendix E Employee shall be determined in accordance with the provisions of Section 3 of the Plan.
       E-6.  Death Benefit.        

(1)  
  If an Appendix E Employee dies prior to commencing his Supplementary Pension benefit and leaves a surviving spouse, a lifetime benefit shall be payable to his surviving
spouse. Such benefit shall commence on the first of the month following the later of the date the Employee would have attained age fifty-five (55) or his date of death, and shall be equal to the excess, if any, of the Employee s Annual
Retirement Income multiplied by an early retirement reduction factor described in (a), over the sum of (b) through (f), where (a) through (f) are as follows:     

a.  
    The earlier retirement reduction factor shall equal the product of (i) one-twelfth (   1   /  12  ) of the number of complete months by which commencement of
the death benefit precedes the attainment of age sixty (60) and (ii) seven percent (7%) minus the smaller of three and one-half percent       
         E-5

(3.5%) or fourteen hundredths percent (0.14%) times complete years of Benefit Eligibility Service in excess of five (5). If commencement of the death benefit is on or after the date the Employee
attained or would have attained age sixty (60), then this early retirement reduction factor shall not apply.          

b.  
  The annual pre-retirement surviving spouse benefit payable under the Legacy Plan (as a single life annuity and excluding the early retirement supplement described in
sections 2.3(a)(ii) and 2.3(b)(ii) of the Legacy Plan);         

c.  
  The annual pre-retirement surviving spouse benefit payable under the Legacy Plan (as a single life annuity);     

d.  
  Twenty-five percent (25%) of the Employee s Annual Estimated Social Security Benefit;     

e.  
  The Employee s Personal Pension Account joint and survivor benefit as defined in the Legacy Plan (as a single life annuity); and     

f.  
  The annual pre-retirement surviving spouse benefit, if any, determined in accordance with the provisions of Section 3.03 and Appendix A (as a single life annuity).

(2)  
  If an Appendix E Employee dies while employed by the Corporation and without leaving a surviving spouse, the death benefit payable to his Beneficiary shall be a single
sum equal to five (5) times his annual Supplementary Pension benefit that would have otherwise been payable had he survived until the first of the month following the later of his age fifty-five (55) or his date of death and then commenced
his Supplementary Pension. Such single sum shall be paid on the first of the month following the later of the date the Employee would have attained age fifty-five (55) or his date of death. For purposes of this paragraph, an Appendix E Employee
may only designate his estate, former spouse, or member of his immediate family as his Beneficiary.     
         E-6

</EX-10.18>

<EX-21>
 3
 dex21.htm
 EXHIBIT 21

Exhibit 21 

Exhibit 21        GENERAL DYNAMICS CORPORATION        SUBSIDIARIES    
   AS OF JANUARY 31, 2011        

Subsidiaries of General Dynamics Corporation   
   (Parent and Registrant)    
      
     Place of Incorporation    

Percent of Voting Power     
 
    American Overseas Marine Corporation   
      
  Delaware  
      
  100   
 
    Anteon Limited   
      
  England and Wales  
      
  100   
 
    ASCOD A.I.E.   
      
  Spain  
      
  100   
 
    AV Technology, LLC   
      
  Maryland  
      
  100   
 
    AxleTech do Brasil-Systmas Automotivos, Ltd.   
      
  Brazil  
      
  100   
 
    Axletech International Brazil LLC   
      
  Delaware  
      
  100   
 
    Axletech International Holdings, Inc.   
      
  Delaware  
      
  100   
 
    Axletech International IP Holdings, LLC   
      
  Michigan  
      
  100   
 
    Axletech International Korea Ltd.   
      
  Korea  
      
  100   
 
    Axletech International LLC   
      
  Delaware  
      
  100   
 
    Axletech International SAS   
      
  France  
      
  100   
 
    Axletech LLC   
      
  Michigan  
      
  100   
 
    Axsys Technologies IR Systems, Inc.   
      
  New York  
      
  100   
 
    Axsys Technologies, Inc.   
      
  Delaware  
      
  100   
 
    AXT Acquisition Holdings, Inc.   
      
  Delaware  
      
  100   
 
    AXT French Holdings, Inc.   
      
  Delaware  
      
  100   
 
    AXT Holdings (France) SAS   
      
  France  
      
  100   
 
    AXT US LLC   
      
  Delaware  
      
  100   
 
    Bath Iron Works Australia Corporation   
      
  Delaware  
      
  100   
 
    Bath Iron Works Corporation   
      
  Maine  
      
  100   
 
    Blue Shadow Cruising Ltd.   
      
  Gibraltar  
      
  100   
 
    Braintree I Maritime Corp.   
      
  Delaware  
      
  100   
 
    Braintree II Maritime Corp.   
      
  Delaware  
      
  100   
 
    Braintree III Maritime Corp.   
      
  Delaware  
      
  100   
 
    Braintree IV Maritime Corp.   
      
  Delaware  
      
  100   
 
    Braintree V Maritime Corp.   
      
  Delaware  
      
  100   
 
    Capital Resources Development Company   
      
  Delaware  
      
  100   
 
    Century Mineral Resources, Inc.   
      
  Illinois  
      
  100   
 
    Concord I Maritime Corporation   
      
  Delaware  
      
  100   
 
    Concord II Maritime Corporation   
      
  Delaware  
      
  100   
 
    Concord III Maritime Corporation   
      
  Delaware  
      
  100   
 
    Concord IV Maritime Corporation   
      
  Delaware  
      
  100   
 
    Concord V Maritime Corporation   
      
  Delaware  
      
  100   
 
    Convair Aircraft Corporation   
      
  Delaware  
      
  100    

GENERAL DYNAMICS CORPORATION    
   SUBSIDIARIES    
   AS OF JANUARY 31, 2011          

Subsidiaries of General Dynamics Corporation   
   (Parent and Registrant)    
      
     Place of Incorporation    

Percent of Voting Power     

Convair Corporation   
      
  Delaware  
      
  100   
 
    Defendia CZ s.r.o.   
      
  Czech Republic  
      
  100   
 
    Eagle Enterprise, Inc.   
      
  Delaware  
      
  100   
 
    EB Groton Engineering, Inc.   
      
  Delaware  
      
  100   
 
    EBV Explosives Environmental Company   
      
  Delaware  
      
  100   
 
    Edgecom Technology Services, Inc.   
      
  Virginia  
      
  100   
 
    Elco Company, The   
      
  New Jersey  
      
  100   
 
    ELCS-CZ s.r.o.   
      
  Czech Republic  
      
  100   
 
    Electric Boat   Australia, LLC   
      
  Delaware  
      
  100   
 
    Electric Boat   UK, LLC   
      
  Delaware  
      
  100   
 
    Electric Boat Corporation   
      
  Delaware  
      
  100   
 
    Electrocom, Inc.   
      
  Delaware  
      
  100   
 
    Expro Finance Inc.   
      
  Canada  
      
  100   
 
    Foresight Technology Services, LLC   
      
  Virginia  
      
  100   
 
    Freeman United Coal Mining Company, LLC   
      
  Delaware  
      
  100   
 
    G.T. Devices, Inc.   
      
  Maryland  
      
  100   
 
    GD European Land Systems   Steyr Gmbh   
      
  Austria  
      
  100   
 
    GDATP Holdings, Inc.   
      
  Delaware  
      
  100   
 
    GDATP Services Corporation   
      
  Delaware  
      
  100   
 
    General Dynamics Government Systems Overseas Corporation   
      
  Delaware  
      
  100   
 
    General Dynamics Overseas Systems and Services Corporation   
      
  Delaware  
      
  100   
 
    General Dynamics Advanced Information Systems, Inc.   
      
  Delaware  
      
  100   
 
    General Dynamics AIS Australia Pty Ltd   
      
  Australia  
      
  100   
 
    General Dynamics Armament and Technical Products, Inc.   
      
  Delaware  
      
  100   
 
    General Dynamics C4 Systems, Inc.   
      
  Delaware  
      
  100   
 
    General Dynamics Canada Ltd.   
      
  Canada  
      
  100   
 
    General Dynamics European Holdings B.V.   
      
  The Netherlands  
      
  100   
 
    General Dynamics European Land Systems   Germany GmbH   
      
  Germany  
      
  100   
 
    General Dynamics European Land Systems   Mowag GmbH   
      
  Switzerland  
      
  100   
 
    General Dynamics European Land Systems GmbH   
      
  Austria  
      
  100   
 
    General Dynamics Global Force, LLC   
      
  Delaware  
      
  100   
 
    General Dynamics Government Systems Corporation   
      
  Delaware  
      
  100    

GENERAL DYNAMICS CORPORATION    
   SUBSIDIARIES    
   AS OF JANUARY 31, 2011          

Subsidiaries of General Dynamics Corporation   
   (Parent and Registrant)    
      
     Place of Incorporation    

Percent of Voting Power     

General Dynamics Information Technology, Inc.   
      
  Virginia  
      
  100   
 
    General Dynamics Installation Services, LLC   
      
  Delaware  
      
  100   
 
    General Dynamics International Corporation   
      
  Delaware  
      
  100   
 
    General Dynamics Itronix Canada Ltd.   
      
  Nova Scotia  
      
  100   
 
    General Dynamics Itronix Corporation   
      
  Delaware  
      
  100   
 
    General Dynamics Itronix Europe Ltd.   
      
  United Kingdom  
      
  100   
 
    General Dynamics Land Systems   Australia Pty. Ltd.   
      
  Australia  
      
  100   
 
    General Dynamics Land Systems   Canada Global Services Inc.   
      
  New Brunswick  
      
  100   
 
    General Dynamics Land Systems   Canada International Services Inc.   
      
  New Brunswick  
      
  100   
 
    General Dynamics Land Systems   Canada Corporation   
      
  New Brunswick  
      
  100   
 
    General Dynamics Land Systems   Canada Services, Inc.   
      
  New Brunswick  
      
  100   
 
    General Dynamics Land Systems Customer Service   Support Company   
      
  Texas  
      
  100   
 
    General Dynamics Land Systems Inc.   
      
  Delaware  
      
  100   
 
    General Dynamics Land Systems International, Inc.   
      
  Delaware  
      
  100   
 
    General Dynamics Limited   
      
  United Kingdom  
      
  100   
 
    General Dynamics Marine Systems, Inc.   
      
  Delaware  
      
  100   
 
    General Dynamics One Source, LLC   
      
  Delaware  
      
  100   
 
    General Dynamics Ordnance and Tactical Systems   Canada Inc.   
      
  Canada  
      
  100   
 
    General Dynamics Ordnance and Tactical Systems   Canada Valleyfield Inc.   
      
  Canada  
      
  100   
 
    General Dynamics Ordnance and Tactical Systems   Simunition Operations, Inc.   
      
  Delaware  
      
  100   
 
    General Dynamics Ordnance and Tactical Systems, Inc.   
      
  Virginia  
      
  100   
 
    General Dynamics OTS (Aerospace), Inc.   
      
  Washington  
      
  100   
 
    General Dynamics OTS (California), Inc.   
      
  California  
      
  100   
 
    General Dynamics OTS (DRI), Inc.   
      
  Alabama  
      
  100   
 
    General Dynamics OTS (Niceville), Inc.   
      
  Florida  
      
  100   
 
    General Dynamics OTS (Orlando), Inc.   
      
  Florida  
      
  100   
 
    General Dynamics OTS (Pennsylvania), Inc.   
      
  Pennsylvania  
      
  100   
 
    General Dynamics Properties, Inc.   
      
  Delaware  
      
  100   
 
    General Dynamics Robotic Systems, Inc.   
      
  Delaware  
      
  100    

GENERAL DYNAMICS CORPORATION    
   SUBSIDIARIES    
   AS OF JANUARY 31, 2011          

Subsidiaries of General Dynamics Corporation   
   (Parent and Registrant)    
      
     Place of Incorporation    

Percent of Voting Power     

General Dynamics SATCOM Technologies, Inc.   
      
  Delaware  
      
  100   
 
    General Dynamics Satellite Communication Services, Inc.   
      
  Delaware  
      
  100   
 
    General Dynamics Shared Resources, Inc.   
      
  Delaware  
      
  100   
 
    General Dynamics Support Services Company   
      
  Delaware  
      
  100   
 
    General Dynamics Systems Australia Pty. Ltd.   
      
  Australia  
      
  100   
 
    General Dynamics United Kingdom Limited   
      
  United Kingdom  
      
  100   
 
    General Dynamics Worldwide Holdings, Inc.   
      
  Delaware  
      
  100   
 
    GM GDLS Defense Group, LLC   
      
  Delaware  
      
  100   
 
    Gulfstream   California, Inc.   
      
  Delaware  
      
  100   
 
    Gulfstream 100 Holdings LLC   
      
  Delaware  
      
  100   
 
    Gulfstream Aerospace (Middle East) Limited   
      
  Cyprus  
      
  100   
 
    Gulfstream Aerospace Corporation   
      
  Delaware  
      
  100   
 
    Gulfstream Aerospace Corporation   
      
  Georgia  
      
  100   
 
    Gulfstream Aerospace Corporation   
      
  California  
      
  100   
 
    Gulfstream Aerospace Corporation   
      
  Oklahoma  
      
  100   
 
    Gulfstream Aerospace Corporation of Texas   
      
  Texas  
      
  100   
 
    Gulfstream Aerospace LP   
      
  Texas  
      
  100   
 
    Gulfstream Aerospace Services Corporation   
      
  Delaware  
      
  100   
 
    Gulfstream Aerospace, LLC   
      
  Delaware  
      
  100   
 
    Gulfstream Aerospace, Ltd.   
      
  United Kingdom  
      
  100   
 
    Gulfstream Delaware Corporation   
      
  Delaware  
      
  100   
 
    Gulfstream International Corporation   
      
  Delaware  
      
  100   
 
    Gulfstream Leasing LLC   
      
  Georgia  
      
  100   
 
    Gulfstream Product Support Corporation   
      
  Delaware  
      
  100   
 
    Gulfstream Tennessee Corporation   
      
  Delaware  
      
  100   
 
    IDSI, LLC   
      
  Delaware  
      
  100   
 
    Interiores Aereos S.A. de C.V.   
      
  Mexico  
      
  100   
 
    International Manufacturing Technologies, Inc.   
      
  California  
      
  100   
 
    Itronix Manufacturing LLC   
      
  Delaware  
      
  100   
 
    Jet Aviation (Asia Pacific) Pte. Ltd.   
      
  Singapore  
      
  100   
 
    Jet Aviation (Bermuda) Ltd.   
      
  Bermuda  
      
  100   
 
    Jet Aviation (Hong Kong) Ltd.   
      
  Hong Kong  
      
  100   
 
    Jet Aviation (Malaysia), Sdn., Bhd   
      
  Malaysia  
      
  100   
 
    Jet Aviation (UK) Ltd.   
      
  United Kingdom  
      
  100    

GENERAL DYNAMICS CORPORATION    
   SUBSIDIARIES    
   AS OF JANUARY 31, 2011          

Subsidiaries of General Dynamics Corporation   
   (Parent and Registrant)    
      
     Place of Incorporation    

Percent of Voting Power     

Jet Aviation AG   
      
  Switzerland  
      
  100   
 
    Jet Aviation Associates, Ltd.   
      
  Florida  
      
  100   
 
    Jet Aviation Brazil Holdings, Inc.   
      
  Delaware  
      
  100   
 
    Jet Aviation Business Jets (Hong Kong) Ltd.   
      
  Hong Kong  
      
  100   
 
    Jet Aviation Business Jets AG   
      
  Switzerland  
      
  100   
 
    Jet Aviation Business Jets Fzco   
      
  UAE  
      
  100   
 
    Jet Aviation Consulting Services L.P.   
      
  Texas  
      
  100   
 
    Jet Aviation Do Brasil Servicos de Suporte e Manutencao a Aeronaves Ltda.   
      
  Brazil  
      
  100   
 
    Jet Aviation Engineering Management, Inc.   
      
  Texas  
      
  100   
 
    Jet Aviation Flight Services, Inc.   
      
  Maryland  
      
  100   
 
    Jet Aviation Flugzeugwartung GmbH   
      
  Germany  
      
  100   
 
    Jet Aviation France SAS   
      
  France  
      
  100   
 
    Jet Aviation Holding AG   
      
  Switzerland  
      
  100   
 
    Jet Aviation Holdings USA, Inc.   
      
  Delaware  
      
  100   
 
    Jet Aviation International, Inc.   
      
  Florida  
      
  100   
 
    Jet Aviation Management AG   
      
  Switzerland  
      
  100   
 
    Jet Aviation of America, Inc.   
      
  Maryland  
      
  100   
 
    Jet Aviation Private Fleet, LLC   
      
  Delaware  
      
  100   
 
    Jet Aviation Savannah Holding, LLC   
      
  Delaware  
      
  100   
 
    Jet Aviation St. Louis, Inc.   
      
  Missouri  
      
  100   
 
    Jet Aviation Teterboro, LP   
      
  New Jersey  
      
  100   
 
    Jet Aviation Texas, Inc.   
      
  Texas  
      
  100   
 
    Jet Aviation/Palm Beach, Inc.   
      
  Florida  
      
  100   
 
    Jet Professionals International AG   
      
  Switzerland  
      
  100   
 
    Jet Professionals, LLC   
      
  Delaware  
      
  100   
 
    Kylmar (Australasia) Pty Limited   
      
  Australia  
      
  100   
 
    Kylmar (Holdings) Limited   
      
  United Kingdom  
      
  100   
 
    Kylmar (KMC) Limited   
      
  United Kingdom  
      
  100   
 
    Material Service Resources Company, LLC   
      
  Delaware  
      
  100   
 
    Mediaware International Pty Ltd   
      
  Australia  
      
  100   
 
    Midwest Properties Sales, LLC   
      
  Delaware  
      
  100   
 
    NASSCO Holdings Incorporated   
      
  Delaware  
      
  100   
 
    National Steel and Shipbuilding Company   
      
  Nevada  
      
  100    

GENERAL DYNAMICS CORPORATION    
   SUBSIDIARIES    
   AS OF JANUARY 31, 2011          

Subsidiaries of General Dynamics Corporation   
   (Parent and Registrant)    
      
     Place of Incorporation    

Percent of Voting Power     

Newberry Holdings, LLC   
      
  Virginia  
      
  100   
 
    OOO Jet Aviation   
      
  Russia  
      
  100   
 
    Page Europa srl   
      
  Italy  
      
  100   
 
    Pagetel Sistem Muhendisligi Sanayi ve Ticaret Limited Sirketi   
      
  Turkey  
      
  100   
 
    Patriot I Shipping Corp.   
      
  Delaware  
      
  100   
 
    Patriot II Shipping Corp.   
      
  Delaware  
      
  100   
 
    Patriot IV Shipping Corp.   
      
  Delaware  
      
  100   
 
    Plane 79, LLC   
      
  Delaware  
      
  100   
 
    Plane 877G, LLC   
      
  Delaware  
      
  100   
 
    Prodelin India Private Limited   
      
  India  
      
  100   
 
    Quincy Maritime Corporation III   
      
  Delaware  
      
  100   
 
    Santa Barbara Sistemas S.A.   
      
  Spain  
      
  100   
 
    Savannah Air Center, LLC   
      
  Georgia  
      
  100   
 
    Signal Solutions, LLC   
      
  Virginia  
      
  100   
 
    Southern Illinois Recovery, Inc.   
      
  Delaware  
      
  100   
 
    Speedring, LLC   
      
  Delaware  
      
  100   
 
    St. Marks Powder, Inc.   
      
  Delaware  
      
  100   
 
    Steyr Spezialfahrzeug AG de Venez., C.A.   
      
  Venezuela  
      
  100   
 
    Steyr-Daimler-Puch Spezialfahrzeug Schweiz GmbH   
      
  Switzerland  
      
  100   
 
    Steyr-Daimler-Puch Ssf De Venezuela, C.A.   
      
  Venezuela  
      
  100   
 
    Tecnologias Internacionales de Manufactura S.A. de C.V.   
      
  Mexico  
      
  100   
 
    Tripoint Global (Asia) Private Limited   
      
  India  
      
  100   
 
    Vertex Antennentechnik GmbH   
      
  Germany  
      
  100   
 
    Vertex International Limited   
      
  United Kingdom  
      
  100   
 
    Vertexrsi Pte, Ltd.   
      
  Singapore  
      
  100   
 
    ViPS, Inc.   
      
  Maryland  
      
  100   
 
    Weco, LLC   
      
  Delaware  
      
  100   
 
    Xcore, Inc.   
      
  Delaware  
      
  100    

</EX-21>

<EX-23>
 4
 dex23.htm
 EXHIBIT 23

Exhibit 23 

Exhibit 23       Consent of Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm       To the Board of Directors of
General Dynamics Corporation:      We consent to the incorporation by reference in the registration statements (Nos. 2-23904, 2-24270, 33-23448,
33-42799, 333-26571, 333-74574, 333-87126, 333-101634, 333-103607, 333-107901, 333-116071, 333-139518, 333-159038, and 333-159045) on Forms S-8 and registration statement No. 333-155980 on Form S-3 of General Dynamics Corporation of our reports
dated February 18, 2011, with respect to:       

the consolidated balance sheets of General Dynamics Corporation as of December 31, 2009 and 2010, and the related consolidated statements of
earnings, shareholders  equity, and cash flows for each of the years in the three-year period ended December 31, 2010, and the related financial statement schedule,      

the effectiveness of internal control over financial reporting as of December 31, 2010,      
  which reports appear in the December 31, 2010 annual report on Form 10-K of General Dynamics Corporation.   

</EX-23>

<EX-24>
 5
 dex24.htm
 EXHIBIT 24

Exhibit 24 

Exhibit 24        POWER OF ATTORNEY       KNOW ALL PERSONS BY THESE PRESENT, that
each of the undersigned Directors of GENERAL DYNAMICS CORPORATION, a Delaware corporation, hereby constitutes and appoints each of JAY L. JOHNSON, L. HUGH REDD and GREGORY S. GALLOPOULOS as his true and lawful attorney-in-fact and agent, with full
power of substitution, for him and in his name, place and stead, in any and all capacities, to sign the 2010 Annual Report on Form 10-K of General Dynamics Corporation, and to file the same, with all exhibits thereto, and other documents in
connection therewith, with the Securities and Exchange Commission, granting unto each said attorney-in-fact and agent full power and authority to do and perform each and every act and thing requisite and necessary as fully as to all intents and
purposes as he might or could do in person, and hereby ratifying and confirming all that said attorney-in-fact and agent or his substitute or substitutes may lawfully do or cause to be done by virtue hereof.   
  IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the undersigned have hereunto set their hands this  2  nd       day of
February 2011.        

/s/ Nicholas D. Chabraja   

/s/ Paul G. Kaminski    
 
  Nicholas D. Chabraja  

Paul G. Kaminski   

/s/ James S. Crown   

/s/ John M. Keane    
 
  James S. Crown  

John M. Keane   

/s/ William P. Fricks   

/s/ Lester L. Lyles    
 
  William P. Fricks  

Lester L. Lyles   

/s/ Jay L. Johnson   

/s/ William A. Osborn    
 
  Jay L. Johnson  

William A. Osborn   

/s/ George A. Joulwan   

/s/ Robert Walmsley    
 
  George A. Joulwan  

Robert Walmsley    

</EX-24>

<EX-31.1>
 6
 dex311.htm
 EXHIBIT 31.1

Exhibit 31.1 

Exhibit 31.1       CERTIFICATION BY CEO PURSUANT TO SECTION 302        OF THE SARBANES-OXLEY ACT
OF 2002       I, Jay L. Johnson, certify that:       

1)   
    I have reviewed this annual report on Form 10-K of General Dynamics Corporation;      

2)   
    Based on my knowledge, this report does not contain any untrue statement of a material fact or omit to state a material fact necessary to make the
statements made, in light of the circumstances under which such statements were made, not misleading with respect to the period covered by this report;      

3)   
    Based on my knowledge, the financial statements, and other financial information included in this report, fairly present in all material respects
the financial condition, results of operations and cash flows of the registrant as of, and for, the periods presented in this report;          

4)   
    The registrant s other certifying officer and I are responsible for establishing and maintaining disclosure controls and procedures (as defined
in Exchange Act Rules 13a-15(e) and 15d-15(e)) and internal control over financial reporting (as defined in Exchange Act Rules 13a-15(f) and 15d-15(f)) for the registrant and we have:      

a)   
    designed such disclosure controls and procedures, or caused such disclosure controls and procedures to be designed under our supervision, to ensure
that material information relating to the registrant, including its consolidated subsidiaries, is made known to us by others within those entities, particularly during the period in which this annual report is being prepared;

b)   
    designed such internal control over financial reporting, or caused such internal control over financial reporting to be designed under our
supervision, to provide reasonable assurance regarding the reliability of financial reporting and the preparation of financial statements for external purposes in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles;

c)   
    evaluated the effectiveness of the registrant s disclosure controls and procedures and presented in this report our conclusions about the
effectiveness of the disclosure controls and procedures, as of the end of the period covered by this report based on such evaluation; and          

d)   
    disclosed in this report any change in the registrant s internal control over financial reporting that occurred during the registrant s
most recent fiscal quarter that has materially affected, or is reasonably likely to materially affect, the registrant s internal control over financial reporting; and      

5)   
    The registrant s other certifying officer and I have disclosed, based on our most recent evaluation of internal control over financial
reporting, to the registrant s auditors and the audit committee of the registrant s board of directors:      

a)   
    all significant deficiencies and material weaknesses in the design or operation of internal control over financial reporting which are reasonably
likely to adversely affect the registrant s ability to record, process, summarize and report financial information; and          

b)   
    any fraud, whether or not material, that involves management or other employees who have a significant role in the registrant s internal
control over financial reporting.           

/s/ Jay L. Johnson    
 
      Jay L. Johnson       Chairman and Chief Executive Officer     

  February 18, 2011   

</EX-31.1>

<EX-31.2>
 7
 dex312.htm
 EXHIBIT 31.2

Exhibit 31.2 

Exhibit 31.2       CERTIFICATION BY CFO PURSUANT TO SECTION 302        OF THE SARBANES-OXLEY ACT
OF 2002       I, L. Hugh Redd, certify that:       

1)   
    I have reviewed this annual report on Form 10-K of General Dynamics Corporation;      

2)   
    Based on my knowledge, this report does not contain any untrue statement of a material fact or omit to state a material fact necessary to make the
statements made, in light of the circumstances under which such statements were made, not misleading with respect to the period covered by this report;      

3)   
    Based on my knowledge, the financial statements, and other financial information included in this report, fairly present in all material respects
the financial condition, results of operations and cash flows of the registrant as of, and for, the periods presented in this report;          

4)   
    The registrant s other certifying officer and I are responsible for establishing and maintaining disclosure controls and procedures (as defined
in Exchange Act Rules 13a-15(e) and 15d-15(e)) and internal control over financial reporting (as defined in Exchange Act Rules 13a-15(f) and 15d-15(f)) for the registrant and we have:      

a)   
    designed such disclosure controls and procedures, or caused such disclosure controls and procedures to be designed under our supervision, to ensure
that material information relating to the registrant, including its consolidated subsidiaries, is made known to us by others within those entities, particularly during the period in which this annual report is being prepared;

b)   
    designed such internal control over financial reporting, or caused such internal control over financial reporting to be designed under our
supervision, to provide reasonable assurance regarding the reliability of financial reporting and the preparation of financial statements for external purposes in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles;

c)   
    evaluated the effectiveness of the registrant s disclosure controls and procedures and presented in this report our conclusions about the
effectiveness of the disclosure controls and procedures, as of the end of the period covered by this report based on such evaluation; and          

d)   
    disclosed in this report any change in the registrant s internal control over financial reporting that occurred during the registrant s
most recent fiscal quarter that has materially affected, or is reasonably likely to materially affect, the registrant s internal control over financial reporting; and      

5)   
    The registrant s other certifying officer and I have disclosed, based on our most recent evaluation of internal control over financial
reporting, to the registrant s auditors and the audit committee of the registrant s board of directors:      
         1   

a)   
    all significant deficiencies and material weaknesses in the design or operation of internal control over financial reporting which are reasonably
likely to adversely affect the registrant s ability to record, process, summarize and report financial information; and          

b)   
    any fraud, whether or not material, that involves management or other employees who have a significant role in the registrant s internal
control over financial reporting.           

/s/ L. Hugh Redd    
 
      L. Hugh Redd    
 
      Senior Vice President and Chief Financial Officer     
   February 18, 2011   
         2   

</EX-31.2>

<EX-32.1>
 8
 dex321.htm
 EXHIBIT 32.1

Exhibit 32.1 

Exhibit 32.1       CERTIFICATION BY CEO PURSUANT TO        18 U.S.C. SECTION 1350,    
   AS ADOPTED PURSUANT TO        SECTION 906 OF THE SARBANES-OXLEY ACT OF 2002       In connection with the
annual report of General Dynamics Corporation (the Company) on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2010, as filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission on the date hereof (the Report), I, Jay L. Johnson, Chairman and Chief Executive
Officer of the Company, certify, pursuant to 18 U.S.C. Section 1350, as adopted pursuant to Section 906 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, that to my knowledge:   

1)   
    the Report fully complies with the requirements of Section 13(a) or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934; and

2)   
    the information contained in the Report fairly presents, in all material respects, the financial condition and results of operations of the Company.

/s/ Jay L. Johnson    
 
      Jay L. Johnson    
 
      Chairman and Chief Executive Officer     
   February 18, 2011      A signed original of this written
statement required by Section 906 has been provided to the Company and will be retained by the Company and furnished to the Securities and Exchange Commission or its staff upon request.   

</EX-32.1>

<EX-32.2>
 9
 dex322.htm
 EXHIBIT 32.2

Exhibit 32.2 

Exhibit 32.2       CERTIFICATION BY CFO PURSUANT TO        18 U.S.C. SECTION 1350,    
   AS ADOPTED PURSUANT TO        SECTION 906 OF THE SARBANES-OXLEY ACT OF 2002       In connection with the
annual report of General Dynamics Corporation (the Company) on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2010, as filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission on the date hereof (the Report), I, L. Hugh Redd, Senior Vice President and
Chief Financial Officer of the Company, certify, pursuant to 18 U.S.C. Section 1350, as adopted pursuant to Section 906 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, that to my knowledge:   

1)   
    the Report fully complies with the requirements of Section 13(a) or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934; and

2)   
    the information contained in the Report fairly presents, in all material respects, the financial condition and results of operations of the Company.

/s/ L. Hugh Redd    
 
      L. Hugh Redd    
 
      Senior Vice President and Chief Financial Officer     
   February 18, 2011      A signed original of this written
statement required by Section 906 has been provided to the Company and will be retained by the Company and furnished to the Securities and Exchange Commission or its staff upon request.   

</EX-32.2>

<EX-101.INS>
 10
 gd-20101231.xml
 XBRL INSTANCE DOCUMENT

</EX-101.INS>

<EX-101.SCH>
 11
 gd-20101231.xsd
 XBRL TAXONOMY EXTENSION SCHEMA

</EX-101.SCH>

<EX-101.CAL>
 12
 gd-20101231_cal.xml
 XBRL TAXONOMY EXTENSION CALCULATION LINKBASE

</EX-101.CAL>

<EX-101.DEF>
 13
 gd-20101231_def.xml
 XBRL TAXONOMY EXTENSION DEFINITION LINKBASE

</EX-101.DEF>

<EX-101.LAB>
 14
 gd-20101231_lab.xml
 XBRL TAXONOMY EXTENSION LABEL LINKBASE

</EX-101.LAB>

<EX-101.PRE>
 15
 gd-20101231_pre.xml
 XBRL TAXONOMY EXTENSION PRESENTATION LINKBASE

</EX-101.PRE>

