<Header>
<FileStats>
    <FileName>20080401_10-K_edgar_data_60667_0000060667-08-000067_1.txt</FileName>
    <GrossFileSize>2415397</GrossFileSize>
    <NetFileSize>215473</NetFileSize>
    <NonText_DocumentType_Chars>4478</NonText_DocumentType_Chars>
    <HTML_Chars>1799603</HTML_Chars>
    <XBRL_Chars>0</XBRL_Chars>
    <XML_Chars>0</XML_Chars>
    <N_Tables>53</N_Tables>
    <N_Exhibits>8</N_Exhibits>
</FileStats>
<SEC-Header>
0000060667-08-000067.hdr.sgml : 20080401
<ACCEPTANCE-DATETIME>20080401170210
ACCESSION NUMBER:		0000060667-08-000067
CONFORMED SUBMISSION TYPE:	10-K
PUBLIC DOCUMENT COUNT:		10
CONFORMED PERIOD OF REPORT:	20080201
FILED AS OF DATE:		20080401
DATE AS OF CHANGE:		20080401

FILER:

	COMPANY DATA:	
		COMPANY CONFORMED NAME:			LOWES COMPANIES INC
		CENTRAL INDEX KEY:			0000060667
		STANDARD INDUSTRIAL CLASSIFICATION:	RETAIL-LUMBER & OTHER BUILDING MATERIALS DEALERS [5211]
		IRS NUMBER:				560578072
		STATE OF INCORPORATION:			NC
		FISCAL YEAR END:			0131

	FILING VALUES:
		FORM TYPE:		10-K
		SEC ACT:		1934 Act
		SEC FILE NUMBER:	001-07898
		FILM NUMBER:		08730159

	BUSINESS ADDRESS:	
		STREET 1:		1000 LOWE'S BLVD.
		CITY:			MOORESVILLE
		STATE:			NC
		ZIP:			28117
		BUSINESS PHONE:		7047581000

	MAIL ADDRESS:	
		STREET 1:		P.O. BOX 1000
		CITY:			MOORESVILLE
		STATE:			NC
		ZIP:			28115

</SEC-Header>
</Header>

 
Proc-Type: 2001,MIC-CLEAR
Originator-Name: webmaster@www.sec.gov
Originator-Key-Asymmetric:
 MFgwCgYEVQgBAQICAf8DSgAwRwJAW2sNKK9AVtBzYZmr6aGjlWyK3XmZv3dTINen
 TWSM7vrzLADbmYQaionwg5sDW3P6oaM5D3tdezXMm7z1T+B+twIDAQAB
MIC-Info: RSA-MD5,RSA,
 U1B4EO0FP35bdOXmADup47gJeb4sP7TcJuiajKrUv9R2AyeoigLDHCvxsqTIRruF
 Gf9Hdlz596c4rtn24LbyGw==

 0000060667-08-000067.txt : 20080401

10-K
 1
 lowesform10k02012008.htm
 LOWE'S FORM 10-K FEBRUARY 1, 2008

lowesform10k02012008.htm 

UNITED STATES  

       SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE
COMMISSION  

       Washington, D.C.
20549  

FORM 10-K  

      (Mark
One) 

LOWE'S   COMPANIES, 
      INC  . 

(Exact name of registrant as specified in its
    charter)

NORTH
      CAROLINA  

56-0578072  

(State
      or other jurisdiction of incorporation or organization) 

(I.R.S.
      Employer Identification No.) 

Securities
registered pursuant to Section 12(b) of the Act: 

Title
      of each class 

Name
      of each exchange on which registered 

Common Stock, $.50 Par
      Value  

New York Stock Exchange
      (NYSE)  

Indicate
by check mark if the registrant is a well-known seasoned issuer, as defined in
Rule 405 of the Securities Act.     

x  

Yes  

o  

No  

Indicate
by check mark if the registrant is not required to file reports pursuant to
Section 13 or Section 15(d) of the Exchange Act. 

o  

Yes  

x  

No  

Indicate
by check mark whether the registrant (1) has filed all reports required to be
filed by Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 during the
preceding 12 months (or for such shorter period that the registrant was required
to file such reports), and (2) has been subject to such filing requirements for
the past 90 days.  

x  

Yes  

o  

No  

Indicate
by check mark if disclosure of delinquent filers pursuant to Item 405 of
Regulation S-K  ( 229.405
of this chapter)  is not contained herein, and will not be contained,
to the best of registrant's knowledge, in definitive proxy or information
statements incorporated by reference in Part III of this Form 10-K or any
amendment to this Form 10-K.   o   

Indicate
by check mark whether the registrant is a large accelerated filer, an
accelerated filer, a non-accelerated filer, or a smaller reporting company. See
the definitions of  large accelerated filer," "accelerated filer,  and
"smaller reporting company" in Rule 12b-2 of the Exchange Act. (Check
one): 

Large
      accelerated filer  x  

Accelerated
      filer  o  

Non-accelerated
      filer  o  

Smaller
      reporting company  o  

Indicate
by check mark whether the registrant is a shell company (as defined in Rule
12b-2 of the Exchange Act).       

o  

Yes  

x  

No  

As of
August 3, 2007, the last business day of the Company's most recent second
quarter, the aggregate market value of the registrant s common stock held by
non-affiliates of the registrant was $31.9 billion based on the closing sale
price as reported on the New York Stock Exchange.  

Indicate
the number of shares outstanding of each of the issuer s classes of common
stock, as of the latest practicable date. 

DOCUMENTS INCORPORATED BY
REFERENCE   

Document 

Parts
      Into Which Incorporated 

Portions
      of Lowe s 2007 Annual Report to Shareholders 

Parts
      I, II and IV 

Portions
      of the Proxy Statement for Lowe s 2008 Annual Meeting of
      Shareholders 

Part
      III 

LOWE S COMPANIES,
INC .  

         - INDEX -  

PART
      I   

Page
      No.   

Item
      1. 

Business  

4-10 

Item
      1A. 

Risk Factors  

10-12 

Item
      1B. 

Unresolved Staff Comments  

12 

Item
      2. 

Properties  

12 

Item
      3. 

Legal Proceedings  

12 

Item
      4. 

Submission of Matters to a Vote of Security
      Holders  

12 

Executive Officers of the
      Registrant  

13 

PART
      II   

Item
      5. 

Market for Registrant s Common Equity, Related Stockholder
      Matters and Issuer Purchases of  

                   Equity Securities  

14 

Item
      6. 

Selected Financial Data  

14 

Item
      7. 

Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition
      and Results of Operations  

14 

Item
      7A. 

Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market
      Risk  

14 

Item
      8. 

Financial Statements and Supplementary
    Data  

14 

Item
      9. 

Changes in and Disagreements with Accountants on Accounting
      and Financial Disclosure  

15 

Item
      9A. 

Controls and Procedures  

15 

Item
      9B. 

Other Information  

15 

PART
      III   

Item
      10. 

Directors, Executive Officers and Corporate
      Governance  

16 

Item
      11. 

Executive Compensation  

16 

Item
      12. 

Security Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owners and
      Management and Related Stockholder Matters  

16 

Item
      13. 

Certain Relationships and Related Transactions, and
      Director Independence  

16 

Item
      14. 

Principal Accounting Fees and Services  

16 

PART
      IV   

Item
      15. 

Exhibits, Financial Statement
      Schedules  

17-21 

Signatures  

22-23 

3 

Part
I 

Item 1  - Business 

General
Information 

Lowe s
Companies, Inc. and subsidiaries (the Company) is a Fortune 50 company and the
world s second largest home improvement retailer, with specific emphasis on
retail do-it-yourself (DIY) customers, do-it-for-me (DIFM) customers who utilize
our installation services, and Commercial Business Customers.  We
offer a complete line of products and services for home decorating, maintenance,
repair, remodeling, and property maintenance.  As of February 1, 2008,
we operated 1,534 stores in 50 states and Canada, with 174 million square feet
of retail selling space. 

Incorporated
in North Carolina in 1952, Lowe s Companies, Inc. has been publicly held since
1961. Our common stock is listed on the New York Stock Exchange - ticker symbol
 LOW.  

See Item
6,  Selected Financial Data,  for historical revenues, profits and identifiable
assets. 

Who
We Serve 

We serve
homeowners, renters and Commercial Business Customers.  Homeowners and
renters primarily consist of do-it-yourselfers, those taking advantage of our
installed sales programs, and others buying for personal and family
use.  Commercial Business Customers include repair and remodeling
contractors, electricians, landscapers, painters, plumbers, and commercial and
residential property maintenance professionals, among others. 

To meet
customers  varying needs, we combine merchandise sales and service in categories
that are relevant to them.  We offer a full array of home improvement
products in the following categories: appliances, lumber, flooring, paint,
millwork, fashion plumbing, building materials, lighting, tools, lawn  
landscape products, hardware, seasonal living, cabinets   countertops, home
style   organization, rough plumbing, outdoor power equipment, nursery,
rough electrical and home environment. 

Our
Market 

Based on
the most recent comprehensive data available, which is from 2006, we estimate
the size of the U.S. home improvement market to be approximately $755 billion
annually, comprised of $585 billion of product demand and $170 billion of
installed labor opportunity.  Data from a variety of primary and secondary
sources, including trade associations, government publications, industry
participants and other sources was analyzed as the basis for our
estimate.  This data captures a wide range of categories relevant to
our business, including major appliances and garden supplies. 

As we
continue to monitor economic data and the home improvement marketplace, there
are many variables that impact consumer demand for the products and
services we offer.  Key indicators we monitor include housing
turnover, home ownership levels, real disposable personal income and
employment.  We also monitor demographic and societal trends that are
indicators of home improvement industry growth.  Currently, all of
these indicators suggest continued weakness in consumer demand. 

Housing
      turnover, which peaked in calendar year 2005, continues to slow
      according to The National Association of Realtors .  Recent data
      suggests that 2008 will remain challenging for housing
      turnover. 

According
      to the U.S. Census Bureau, while U.S. home ownership levels have
      declined somewhat from near-record levels over the past year, they remain
      above their historical average.  Home ownership provides an
      established customer base for home maintenance and repair
      projects.   The vast majority of our customers are
      homeowners and they are not willing to let what is often their most
      valuable financial asset
deteriorate. 

Although
      real disposable personal income continues to grow, it is projected to grow
      at a slower pace this year than last.  Real disposable personal
      income growth is forecasted to be 2.1% for calendar 2008 compared with
      3.1% for calendar 2007, as supported by data from the March 2008 Blue Chip
      Economic Indicators . 

Employment
      is an indicator of home improvement sales.  The forecasted
      average unemployment rate of 5.3% for 2008 from the March 2008 Blue
      Chip Economic Indicators  is higher than the 4.6% average seen in
      both 2006 and 2007 and suggests that Americans will face relatively less
      favorable employment prospects this
year. 

4 

The home
improvement retailing business includes many competitors.  We compete
with a number of traditional hardware, plumbing, electrical and home supply
retailers, as well as other chains of warehouse home improvement stores and
lumberyards in most of our trade areas.  In addition, we compete, with
respect to some of our products, with general merchandise stores, mail order
firms, warehouse clubs and online retailers.  The principal
competitive factors are customer service, location, price, product and brand
selection, and name recognition.  

Our
Stores 

New
Store Expansion 

            Our
expansion strategy led to the opening of 153 stores in fiscal 2007 (149 new and
four relocated) that included two primary prototypes: a 117,000-square-foot
(117K) store for large markets and a 94,000-square-foot (94K) store to serve
smaller markets.  As we continue our expansion and strive to maximize
our return on investment, we consider market demographics and land availability,
among other factors, to determine the appropriate prototype for a particular
market.  In fiscal 2008, our growth will be comprised of 94K,
103,000-square-foot and 117K stores to meet the specific needs of each
market. 

International
Expansion 

            In June
2005, we announced expansion plans into Canada.  Based on information
obtained through a thorough market assessment, we are adapting our U.S. business
model to best meet the unique needs and attributes of the Canadian
market.  We opened six stores in Canada in fiscal 2007, which are
our first stores outside the U.S., and will continue our Canadian expansion in
2008. 

In
January 2007, we announced expansion plans into Mexico.  We expect to
open our first stores in Monterrey in fiscal 2009. 

Investments
in Existing Stores 

            During
fiscal 2007, we continued our long history of investing in our existing stores
to enhance the shopping experience for our retail and Commercial Business
Customers.  This included relamping our stores at regular intervals to
ensure they remained bright, adding new displays, improving point-of-sale and
directional signage, adding more product selection, repainting our building
exteriors, and re-striping our parking lots.  We categorize our
merchandising-related investments in our stores as resets or
remerchandising. 

Resets 

            Resets
are necessary to drive comparable store sales and keep our stores fresh with new
and innovative products.  These resets involve the replacement of a
particular product or vendor, and generally do not require major changes in the
store.  We conducted hundreds of resets in fiscal 2007. 

Remerchandising 

            In fiscal
2007, we completed the remerchandising of 116 of our earlier format stores to
make them more closely resemble our most current store
prototypes.  These remerchandising efforts focused on moving entire
departments, improving adjacencies and enhancing the shopability within the
appliances, cabinets   countertops, flooring, fashion plumbing, paint,
lighting, home style   organization, lumber and building materials
departments.  In addition, we replaced or refurbished all of our
selling centers, including the returns and customer service areas of these
stores.  All new interior graphics, signage, and way-finding materials
were also added to increase shopability and brighten the
atmosphere.  Finally, self check-out was installed in all 116 of our
remerchandised stores.  We continuously make these investments to
maintain our best-in-class stores.  These enhancements enable our
stores to continue to offer customers the shopping experience and environment
they deserve, and also deliver stronger sales. 

5 

Serving
Our Customers 

Our
vision is to be our customers  first choice for home improvement.  To
achieve this vision, we continue to focus on excellent customer service,
Everyday Low Prices, and innovative operational, merchandising, marketing and
distribution strategies.  We believe customers  perceptions of the
quality of service determine a retailer s success or
failure.  Therefore, we are always looking for ways to improve our
level of service, optimize store labor and drive in-store process improvement,
build our talent pool, and enhance our sales culture.  The following
are several key initiatives we believe will continue to support our growth and
success going forward. 

Everyday
Low Prices 

            Our
customers do not have to wait for a sale to find a great value.  We
offer low prices every day.  Our promise to customers is that if they
find a lower everyday or advertised price on an identical stock product at a
local competitor, we will not just match that price, but we will beat it by
10%. 

Specialty
Sales 

            We
recognize the opportunity that our Specialty Sales initiatives represent and the
importance of these businesses to our long-term growth.  Our Specialty
Sales initiatives include three major categories: Installed Sales, Special Order
Sales and Commercial Business Customer sales, internally referred to as the  Big
3.   In addition, our effort to utilize e-Commerce to drive sales and
conveniently provide product information to customers is managed by our
Specialty Sales group. 

Installed
Sales 

            We offer
installation services in over 40 categories with flooring, millwork and cabinets
  countertops generating the highest sales.  Our Installed Sales
model, which includes the separation of selling and administrative tasks, allows
our sales associates to shift their focus to project selling, while project
managers ensure that the details related to an installation job are efficiently
executed.  Installed Sales, which includes both product and labor, has
proven to be a successful service initiative accounting for approximately 6% of
total sales in fiscal 2007.  We also continue to refine our offerings,
including an ongoing test of an in-home selling model for certain Installed
Sales categories. 

Special
Order Sales 

            Our
Special Order Sales product offerings provide our customers the opportunity to
select a wider assortment of product options beyond the approximately 40,000 we
carry in our stores.  We are making the Special Order
Sales process easier for customers by providing more product displays and
electronic product catalogs in our stores, as well as on
Lowes.com.  We continue to enhance integrated design tools and
ordering systems storewide in order for customers to envision projects, as well
as to efficiently receive quotations and complete an order. 

Special
Order kiosks, whether electronic or literature-based, are available in various
departments throughout the store for facilitating special orders in addition to
what is made available on Lowes.com.  These kiosks facilitate the
ability of customers to view product pictures, and special order hundreds of
thousands of products. 

Our
Special Order Express initiative is intended to allow for faster and more
efficient delivery of Special Order products to customers, while at the same
time manage our inventory investment.  Under this approach, certain
items that do not have enough individual store demand to be economically stocked
in all stores, but have sizeable demand across a group of stores, will be kept
on hand in our distribution centers.  This allows for fast shipment to
our stores, or in some cases, direct shipment to a customer s
home.  Our Special Order Express initiative allows us to balance
quickly satisfying customers  needs with a desire to minimize our inventory
investment.  We will continue to refine and enhance this initiative in
fiscal 2008. 

Commercial
Business Customers 

            Growth in
total sales to Commercial Business Customers outpaced the Company average in
fiscal 2007.  Our focus is to continue offering exceptional service to
repair/remodel, residential property management, and business maintenance
customers.  Because we understand that time is money for these
businesses, we continue to focus on ways to tailor our product and service
offerings for these customers to quickly find what they need, when they need
it. 

In order
to enable Commercial Business Customers to quickly access the products they
need, our stores are merchandised with high-volume, take-with product
appropriate for the season.  We continue to evaluate and expand our
contractor packs, which are economical quantities of the items Commercial
Business Customers use most.  In addition, Commercial Business
Customers can phone or fax their orders in advance or order online for
pickup the same day or the next day, depending on the time of day the order is
placed. For added convenience, we deliver to job sites seven days a week in most
areas. We want to be a valued business partner to Commercial Business Customers,
so we ensure our LowesForPros.com site features up-to-date articles, job
estimators and business forms, e-newsletters, statistics and other vital
information that Commercial Business Customers can use for their
business. 

6 

e-Commerce 

            Our
multi-channel capabilities enable customers to buy at the store or
online.  Lowes.com is an information destination for customers around
the world and allows customers to buy online and ship anywhere in the
U.S.  Our site facilitates customers researching, comparing and buying
Lowe s products and services whenever and from wherever they
desire.  We offer how-to and buying guides online to help customers
make smarter, more informed buying decisions and to empower them in their home
improvement projects.  We also offer customers the ability to check
product availability at their local store and our direct-ship facilities, and
offer store pick-up and hassle-free returns regardless of where the product was
purchased.  As more and more people are using the internet to research
the products they want, we continue to add content to our site and enhance our
merchandise selection to meet their needs. 

Credit
Financing 

            We offer
a proprietary credit card for retail customers.  In addition, we offer
a Lowe s Project Card in all stores.  Lowe s Project Card provides a
major project, in-store financing solution to complement our Lowe s Customer
Revolving Credit Card. 

We also
offer proprietary credit programs for Commercial Business
Customers.  They include a Lowe s Business Account, which is ideal for
small- to medium-size businesses and offers minimum monthly payments, and Lowe s
Accounts Receivable, which is ideal for medium- to large-size businesses that
pay in full each month. 

See Item
8,  Financial Statements and Supplementary Data,  for a description of our
credit programs. 

In
addition, we accept Visa , MasterCard , Discover  and American Express  credit
cards, as well as debit cards from all major networks. 

Our
Products 

Product
Sourcing 

            We source
our products from approximately 7,000 merchandise vendors worldwide, with no
single vendor accounting for more than six percent of total
purchases.  Management believes that alternative and competitive
suppliers are available for virtually all our products.  Whenever
possible, we purchase directly from manufacturers to provide savings for our
customers and gross margin improvement for Lowe s. 

In
addition to offering a wide selection of national brand name merchandise, we are
committed to building long-term value for Lowe s through the development of
exclusive, proprietary brands where we focus on delivering the best quality, the
best value and recognizably differentiated products to meet our customers  needs
and wants. 

National
Brand Name Merchandise 

            In many
product categories, customers look for a brand they know and trust to instill
confidence in their purchase.  A typical Lowe's home improvement store
stocks approximately 40,000 items, with hundreds of thousands of items available
through our Special Order Sales system.  Each store carries a wide
selection of national brand name merchandise such as KitchenAid , Samsung,
Whirlpool , Pella , Werner , Kohler , DeWalt , John Deere, Troy-Bilt ,
Jenn-Air , Bosch , Valspar , Owens Corning  and many more.  Our
merchandise selection provides the DIY, DIFM and Commercial Business Customer a
one-stop shop for products needed to complete home improvement, repair,
maintenance or construction projects.  See page 42 of Lowe s 2007
Annual Report to Shareholders for the table summarizing sales by product
category for each of the last three fiscal years. 

Proprietary
Brands 

            To
further differentiate our offering, we carry many brands that are exclusive to
Lowe s.  These unique brands cover several categories like lighting,
flooring, home style   organization, tools and more, and give our customers
great quality and value. Exclusive brand names such as Premier Living , Kobalt ,
Portfolio , Harbor Breeze , Reliabilt , Perfect Flame , Top-Choice  Lumber and
Utilitech  are found only at Lowe s. 

Distribution
Network 

            To
efficiently move product from our vendors to our stores and maintain in-stock
levels, we own and operate 13 highly-automated regional distribution centers
(RDCs).  The RDCs are strategically located in North Carolina (2),
Georgia, Indiana, Pennsylvania, Texas, California, Ohio, Florida, Connecticut,
Wyoming, Illinois and Oregon.  On average, each RDC serves 118
stores.  We expect to open an additional RDC in Pittston, Pennsylvania
in fiscal 2008.  We also lease a third-party distribution facility to
serve our Canadian stores. 

We
operate 14 flatbed distribution centers (FDCs) to distribute merchandise that
requires special handling due to size or type of packaging such as lumber,
boards, panel products, irrigation pipe, vinyl sidings, ladders and building
materials.  We own 12 and lease two of these FDCs.  We
expect to open an additional FDC in Purvis, Mississippi in fiscal
2008. 

We also
operate four facilities to support our import business, Special Order Sales and
internet fulfillment.  We own two and lease two 

7 

of these
facilities.  In addition, we utilize three third-party transload
facilities.  These facilities do not hold inventory, but are the first
point of receipt for imported products.  The transload facilities sort
and allocate products to RDCs based on individual store demand and
forecasts. 

On
average in fiscal 2007, over 72% of the stock merchandise we purchased was
shipped through our distribution network, while the remaining portion was
shipped directly to stores from our vendors. 

Building
Our Brand 

Customers
want Lowe s to serve as a resource for products and projects to help them
maintain and enhance their homes and communities.  Our Marketing and
Advertising programs, communicated via television, radio, newspaper, magazine,
direct mail, sponsorships, internet and in-store programs, all play a critical
role in cultivating this emotional and rational connection with the consumer.
Through an extensive understanding of our customers and their needs and
expectations, we deliver a message that will develop loyal customer
relationships and differentiate Lowe s from other home improvement
sources. 

Media
Investment 

            A
combination of national broadcast and cable television, supplemented by an array
of national magazines and internet banner advertising, provides the platform for
building brand awareness. We complement the national media investment in
key markets by local television and radio schedules. Newspaper circulars and ROP
(Run of Press) serve as the primary communication vehicle for retail messaging,
and regularly feature Lowe s breadth of product selection, customer services and
Everyday Low Price positioning. Major promotional events receive network radio
support with a local radio overlay in key markets.  We promote internet
access to Lowe s retail advertising through the use of online banner
advertising. The Lowe s brand has also been successfully integrated into
television programming, including the Oprah Winfrey show, Rate My Space on HGTV
and Indoors Out on the DIY network.   

Direct
to Consumer Marketing 

            We
continue to refine programs to respond to the changing needs and lifestyles of
consumers.  Through innovative database technology, we create direct mail
campaigns based on precise criteria such as purchase activity, affinity group
subscription(s), household demographics, regional weather patterns and even
consumers who are preparing to move, are in the process of moving or have
recently moved into a new home ( New Movers ).  Despite the housing
slow-down, New Movers continue to spend considerably more on their previous and
new homes than the average homeowner.  This behavior has helped guide the
decision to further invest in this particular consumer base over the course of
the next several years. As a result, Lowe s has finalized a two-year agreement
with the United States Postal Service s change of address program and will add
this to its multi-dimensional portfolio of direct mail tactics that speak to the
highly engaged New Movers. Additionally, opt-in e-mail programs line up with
Lowe s affinity and education programs:  Lowe s Creative Ideas for Home and
Garden  , Lowe s Creative Ideas for Outdoor Living   and Lowe s Creative Ideas
for Woodworkers  .  Membership in the Team Lowe s Racing Fan Club and
participation in the Build-n-Grow children s clinics creates another level
of engagement with our consumers both inside Lowe s stores and beyond our
walls.   Each of these varying acquisition and retention programs
creates loyal Lowe s customers. 

Multicultural
Marketing 

            Lowe s
reaches its diverse communities and customer base in various manners, including
multicultural marketing and outreach to Hispanic, African-American and Asian
customers.  For these cultural groups, Lowe s executes advertising across
many media, including television, radio and print, in both English and native
languages.  Some of the unique efforts include La Cancha Lowe s, Lowe s
Hispanic mobile marketing program providing fun to families at key soccer events
across the country; Lowe s sponsorship of the CIAA s annual Basketball
Tournament, the nation s oldest black athletic conference consisting of ten
historically African-American institutions of higher education, that has
blossomed into one of largest collegiate post-season tournaments in the country;
and Lowe s new Chinese, Korean, and Vietnamese language websites offering a new
way for many Asian consumers to learn more about home improvement. 

Team
Lowe s Racing 

            As one of
the world s fastest growing sports, NASCAR is an important part of building our
brand. We are the proud sponsor of Jimmie Johnson, back-to-back NASCAR Sprint 
Cup Series champion, the #48 car and Lowe s Motor Speedway.  We also
host hospitality events at various sites throughout the racing season,
leveraging and further building membership in the Team Lowe s Racing Fan
Club.  In 2007, we continued to foster our relationship with Adrian
Fernandez, who drove in the NASCAR Busch  Series race in Mexico City for
Lowe s.  In addition, we teamed up with Adrian Fernandez and Fernandez
Racing to field the #15 car in the American Le Mans Series. 

Reaching
Out 

We
believe community involvement extends beyond the boundaries of our
stores.  Following are some examples of how we are partnering with
respected organizations to make a difference in our communities: 

8 

Habitat
for Humanity 

            Lowe s is
a partner with Habitat for Humanity International, helping provide safe,
affordable housing for thousands of working families.  Lowe s
contributed more than $4 million to Habitat projects in 2007, and Lowe s
employee volunteers gave hands-on support at home sites coast-to-coast to help
Habitat families build their dreams. 

Lowe s
also underwrites Habitat for Humanity s Women Build program, empowering women
volunteer teams to construct Habitat homes.  The volunteers in this
program built more than 90 homes in 2007. 

American
Red Cross 

            As a
national disaster relief partner with the American Red Cross, Lowe s made it
easier for Red Cross chapters to respond to disasters such as fires, floods and
tornadoes with much-needed supplies from local stores.  We also worked
side-by-side with the American Red Cross at hurricane fairs along the Gulf and
East coasts.  In 2007, Lowe s contributed more than $500,000 to the
American Red Cross, including customer and employee donations. 

The
Home Safety Council 

            Founded
by Lowe s in 1993, The Home Safety Council is a nonprofit organization with a
vision of creating safer American homes.  Thanks to a $3 million
contribution in 2007 from the Lowe s Charitable and Educational Foundation, The
Home Safety Council helped reach thousands of children and families with vital
safety information. 

Lowe s
Charitable and Educational Foundation 

            Founded
in 1957, the Lowe's Charitable and Educational Foundation (LCEF) has a long and
proud history of contributing to grassroots community
projects.  LCEF s primary philanthropic focus areas include community
and public school improvement projects, safe and affordable housing, and
education scholarships. LCEF provides funding only to 501(c)(3)
organizations.  In 2007, LCEF awarded more than $19 million in
grants.  Two specific initiatives of LCEF during 2007 were SkillsUSA
and Rebuilding Together. 

In 2007,
Lowe s took steps through LCEF to address the country s growing skilled worker
shortage and  skills gap  by contributing $500,000 to SkillsUSA programs
nationwide.  Thirty grants in 21 states received the first
SkillsUSA/Lowe s $10,000 education grants supporting education program
enhancements and community service projects.  Fifty-eight schools
received CareerSafe vouchers, demonstrating Lowe s corporate commitment to job
site safety.  Lowe s has increased our commitment to SkillsUSA with a
pledge of $1 million for 2008. 

Lowe s
lives up to its tagline,  Let s Build Something Together,  every
day.  In 2007, LCEF launched a partnership with Rebuilding Together,
the nation s largest all-volunteer home rehabilitation
organization.  Grants ranging from $15,000 to $20,000 kicked off
rehabilitation projects in Long Island, N.Y., Orange County, Calif., and Broward
County, Fla., and LCEF pledged another $1 million in grants to Rebuilding
Together affiliates.  Between fall 2007 and spring 2008, that $1
million was slated to finance at least 100 projects. 

Lowe s
Heroes 

            Lowe s
Heroes employee volunteers tackle local problems in their
communities.  In 2007, Lowe s stores worked with representatives from
nonprofit organizations and concerned individuals from their communities to help
improve schools, build Habitat for Humanity homes or address safety
issues making their communities better places to live. 

Lowe s
Employee Relief Fund 

            Lowe s
Employee Relief Fund is dedicated to distributing emergency funds to our
employees who face financial hardships due to natural disasters, house fires or
illness.  The Company matches employee donations to the Fund.
 Since 1999, Lowe s Employee Relief Fund has assisted more than 5,300
employees with more than $6 million in funds. 

Information
Systems 

We are
continuously assessing and upgrading our information systems in an effort to
support growth, augment new sales initiatives, control costs and enable better
decision-making.  During the last several years, we have made
substantial investments in developing and purchasing new computer
systems. 

We have a
point-of-sale system, electronic bar code scanning system, various design
systems, a wired and wireless network, and dual UNIX servers in each of our
stores.  These systems provide the stores with real-time perpetual
inventory information, support all in-store selling, support labor planning and
management, and provide support for a variety of store administrative
functions.  In addition, these store systems provide the customer
support center organizations with information needed to support the
stores.  Key customer support center groups using this information
include inventory replenishment, finance, human resources and
merchandising.  Store information is communicated to the customer
support center's central computers via a terrestrial based (MPLS) network with
back-up provided by a satellite-based wide area network.  These
corporate systems provide customer checkout with automated credit card
and 

9 

Index 

check
approval, host a variety of centralized design and specialty order systems for
the stores, provide store-based perpetual inventory information, provide sales
performance reporting, and support accurate processing of store sales
transactions.  In addition to the store and corporate office computing
infrastructure, we also have significant computing capacity at each RDC to
support these highly automated facilities. 

We have
invested significant resources to safeguard sensitive employee and customer
information.  We work closely with industry standards groups to
incorporate security best practices into our technology
environment.  Our two state-of-the-art data centers provide many
additional fail-safe features to improve system availability and mitigate risks
associated with unplanned outages.  Our second data center opened in
late 2007 and provides complete back-up to our primary facility.  With
these two facilities, the Company is well positioned for future
growth. 

Employees 

As of
February 1, 2008, we employed approximately 160,000 full-time and 56,000
part-time employees, none of which are covered by collective bargaining
agreements.  Management considers its relations with its employees to
be good. 

Available
Information 

Our
internet website address is: www.Lowes.com.  Our annual report on Form
10-K, quarterly reports on Form 10-Q, current reports on Form 8-K and amendments
to those reports filed or furnished pursuant to Section 13(a) or 15(d) of the
Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, are made available free of charge
through our website as soon as reasonably practicable after such documents are
electronically filed with, or furnished to, the Securities and Exchange
Commission (SEC).  The public may also read and copy any materials the
Company files with the SEC at the SEC s Public Reference Room at 100 F Street,
NE, Washington, DC 20549.  Information on the operation of the Public
Reference Room may be obtained by calling the SEC at
1-800-SEC-0330.  The SEC maintains an Internet site, www.sec.gov, that
contains reports, proxy and information statements, and other information
regarding issuers that file electronically with the SEC. 

Item 1A    Risk Factors 

We are
exposed to a variety of risks and uncertainties. Most are general risks and
uncertainties applicable to all retailers, but some are more particular to
retailers serving the home improvement industry.   Our operations
may also be affected by factors that are either not currently known to us or
which we currently consider immaterial to our business.  We describe
below some of the specific known factors that could negatively affect our
business, financial condition and results of operations.  All
forward-looking statements made by us in this Annual Report to the Securities
and Exchange Commission on Form 10-K, in our Annual Report to Shareholders and
in our subsequently filed quarterly and current reports to the Securities and
Exchange Commission, as well as in our press releases and other public
communications, are qualified by the risks described below. 

Our
sales are dependent upon the health and stability of the general
economy. 

            General
economic factors and other conditions, both domestically and internationally,
may adversely affect the United States economy, the global economy and our
financial performance.  These include, but are not limited to, periods
of flat economic growth or recession, volatility and/or lack of liquidity from
time to time in U.S. and world financial markets and the consequent reduced
availability and/or higher cost of credit to Lowe s and its customers, slower
rates of growth in real disposable personal income, higher rates of
unemployment, higher consumer debt levels, increasing fuel and energy costs,
inflation or deflation of commodity prices, natural disasters, acts of terrorism
and developments in the war against terrorism in Asia and the Middle
East. 

Adverse
changes in economic factors specific to the home improvement industry may
negatively impact the rate of growth of our total sales and comparable store
sales. 

            Sales of
many of our product categories and services are driven by housing turnover and
activity level of home improvement projects.  Many of those sales are
to consumers who are either doing the home improvement projects themselves or
using our installation services, but many others are to professionals who are in
the business of providing construction, renovation, and property maintenance
services.  Rising interest-rates on variable rate mortgages,
increasing mortgage delinquency and foreclosure rates, reduction in the
availability of mortgage financing and consumer credit, lower housing turnover,
home-price depreciation and increased heating and gas expenses could limit
consumers  discretionary spending and affect their confidence level and could
lead to further reduced spending on home improvement projects.  The
impact of these economic factors specific to the home improvement industry would
be exacerbated by a weak job market. 

Unseasonable
weather conditions and adverse weather events can negatively affect our total
sales and comparable store sales. 

            If
weather conditions are uncharacteristic of the time of year during any season,
they can hurt our sales by making it difficult to sell seasonal
merchandise.  Although the impact of unseasonable weather conditions
is mitigated somewhat by the broad geographic dispersion of our stores, they
continue to be a significant risk to the overall performance of our business,
particularly when they occur 

10 

across a
broad region of the United States.  Adverse weather events, such as a
prolonged and widespread drought, can hurt our sales of particular products as
well. 

Our
store expansion and relocation strategy depends upon our ability to successfully
open and operate new stores each year. 

            Our
growth in total sales depends to a substantial degree on successfully and
cost-effectively implementing our ongoing expansion program.  We must
adapt our merchandising, marketing and distribution initiatives to new markets
both domestically and as we continue to expand into Canada and
Mexico.   We also plan to increase the number of our stores in
markets in which we currently operate.  Our ability to open additional
stores depends, in large measure, upon our ability to locate and acquire new
store sites on acceptable terms.   Local land use and other
regulations restricting the construction of buildings in the formats with which
we operate may affect our ability to open new stores in some
markets.  As we develop more new stores in metropolitan markets, we
may incur increased costs to remediate environmental pollution on some of the
sites we are redeveloping that was caused by previous owners of those
sites.  Increased real estate, construction and development costs
could also limit our growth opportunities.  Our ability to continue to
expand our operations depends also on our ability to attract and retain a large
and growing number of qualified employees.  If we are unable to open
new stores at the rate we currently plan and staff them with qualified
employees, the growth in our sales and our competitive position could be
adversely affected. 

If
we fail to hire, train and retain qualified managers, sales associates and other
employees we could lose sales to our competitors. 

            Customers 
perceptions of the quality of service provided by employees can determine any
retailer s success or failure.  Competition for qualified store
managers and sales associates among retailers in the home improvement retailing
business is intense, and if we fail to attract, train and retain qualified
managers and sales associates our financial performance could be adversely
impacted.  Consumers shopping for goods and services for home
improvement projects expect to have sales associates serving them who are
knowledgeable about product categories located throughout our
stores. 

Excessive
turnover, which has historically been high among employees in entry-level or
part-time positions, increases the risk that sales associates will not have the
training and experience needed to provide competitive, high quality customer
service. 

Our
success in serving the needs of Commercial Business Customers is dependent upon
our ability to attract and retain qualified commercial sales
specialists. 

            Commercial
Business Customers in the home improvement industry require that we have
well-trained commercial sales specialists at our project desks.  By
doing so, we can better serve the needs of this customer on a consistent
basis.  Our commercial sales specialists have a great depth of
knowledge about the products needed by Commercial Business
Customers.  If we fail to staff our project desks with experienced and
knowledgeable employees, we run the risk that we will lose Commercial Business
Customers. 

We
have many competitors, who, if we fail to execute our merchandising, marketing
and distribution strategies effectively, could take sales and market share from
us. 

            We
operate in a highly competitive market for home improvement products and
services and have numerous large and small, direct and indirect
competitors.  The principal competitive factors in our industry
include location of stores, price and quality of merchandise, in-stock
consistency, merchandise assortment and presentation, and customer
service.  Our failure to respond effectively to competitive pressures
and changes in the retail markets could affect our financial
performance.  Moreover, unanticipated changes in the pricing and other
practices of our competitors, including the effects of competitor liquidation
activities, may impact our expected results. 

An
unusual number of product liability or breach of warranty claims for defective
products could expose us to expensive claims and damage our standing with our
customers. 

            We are
exposed to product liability and product warranty claims relating to the
products we sell that could adversely affect our financial condition, results of
operations and cash flows.  Because we do not have direct control over
the quality of products manufactured or supplied to us by our vendors and
because we self-insure for such product liability and warranty claims, we are
exposed to risks relating to the quality of such products.  Product
liability claims can be expensive to defend and can divert the attention of
management and other personnel for significant periods, regardless of the
ultimate outcome. Claims of this nature could also have a negative impact on
customer confidence in the products we stock and in our reputation. 

Our
financial performance could suffer if we fail to properly maintain our critical
information systems or if those systems are seriously disrupted. 

            An
important part of our efforts to achieve efficiencies, cost reductions, and
sales and cash flow growth is the identification and implementation of
improvements to our management information systems to improve operations such as
inventory replenishment systems, merchandise ordering, transportation, and
receipt processing.  Our financial performance could be adversely
affected if our management information systems are seriously disrupted or we are
unable to improve, upgrade, maintain, and expand our systems. 

If
the domestic and international supply chain for our products is disrupted, our
sales and gross margin would be adversely impacted. 

            We source
the approximately 40,000 products we stock and sell from approximately 7,000
domestic and international vendors.  We source many of those products
directly from foreign manufacturers.  Political or financial
instability among suppliers, trade 

11 

Index 

restrictions,
tariffs, currency exchange rates and transport capacity and costs are beyond our
control and could negatively impact our business if they seriously disrupted the
movement of products through our supply chain. 

Our
inability to effectively manage our relationships with selected suppliers of
brand name products could negatively impact our ability to differentiate
ourselves from competitors. 

            Part of
our expansion strategy includes continued differentiation from
competitors.  To better distinguish our product offering, we form
strategic relationships with selected suppliers to market and develop products
under a variety of recognized and respected brand names.  The
inability to effectively and efficiently manage the relationships with these
suppliers could negatively impact our business plan and financial
results. 

Item 1B    Unresolved Staff Comments 

None. 

Item 2  - Properties 

At
February 1, 2008, we operated 1,534 stores in the United States and Canada with
a total of 174 million square feet of selling space. Of the total stores
operating at February 1, 2008, approximately 87% are owned, which includes
stores on leased land, with the remainder being leased from unaffiliated
third-parties.  Approximately 49% of our store leases are capital
leases. We also own and operate 13 RDCs and 12 FDCs for lumber and building
commodities.  We lease and operate two additional FDCs. We lease one
third-party distribution facility to serve our Canadian
stores.   We also operate four facilities to support our import
business, Special Order Sales and internet fulfillment.  We own two
and lease two of these facilities.  In addition, we utilize three
third-party transload facilities, which do not hold inventory but are the first
point of receipt for imported products.  We own one data center and
lease one data center that serve as hubs for our computer processing, critical
data storage and information technology systems.  We own our executive
offices, which are located in Mooresville, North Carolina.  We also
own and maintain offices in Wilkes County, North Carolina, and lease and
maintain offices in Toronto, Canada and Monterrey, Mexico. 

Item 3  - Legal Proceedings 

We are a
defendant in legal proceedings considered to be in the normal course of
business, none of which, individually or collectively, is considered
material. 

Item 4  - Submission of Matters to a Vote of Security
Holders 

None. 

12 

Index 

EXECUTIVE OFFICERS OF THE REGISTRANT  

The
following is a list of names and ages of all of the executive officers of the
registrant indicating all positions and offices with the registrant held by each
such person and each person's principal occupations or employment during the
past five years. 

13 

Index 

Part
II 

Item 5      -
  Market for Registrant s
Common Equity, Related Stockholder Matters and Issuer Purchases of Equity
Securities  

Lowe's
common stock is traded on the New York Stock Exchange (NYSE). The ticker symbol
for Lowe's is  LOW .  As of     March
2  8  ,
2008   ,  there were       31,941     holders
  of record of Lowe's common stock. The table, "Quarterly Stock
Price Range and Cash Dividend Payment", on page 44 of the 2007 Lowe s Annual
Report to Shareholders for the fiscal year ended February 1, 2008 sets forth,
for the periods indicated, the high and low sales prices per share of the common
stock as reported by the NYSE Composite Tape and the dividends per share
declared on the common stock during such periods. 

The
following table sets forth information with respect to purchases of the
Company s common stock made during the fourth quarter of 2007: 

(1)      

During
      the fourth quarter of fiscal 2007, the Company repurchased an aggregate of
      14,119,398 shares of its common stock pursuant to the share repurchase
      program.  The total number of shares purchased also includes a
      nominal amount of shares repurchased from employees to satisfy the
      exercise price of certain stock option
  exercises. 

(2)      

On May 25, 2007, the Company s Board of Directors
      authorized up to an additional $3 billion in share repurchases and
      extended the period of the share repurchase program through fiscal
      2009.  Although none are contemplated in the Company s outlook
      for 2008 issued February 25, 2008, the Company expects to continue
      implementing the program through purchases made from time to time either
      in the open market or through private transactions during the extended
      period.     

Item 6  - Selected Financial Data 

See page
43 of the Lowe s 2007 Annual Report to Shareholders. 

Item 7  - Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial
Condition and Results of Operations 

See
"Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of
Operations" on pages 18 through 25 and "Disclosure Regarding Forward-Looking
Statements" on page 26 of Lowe s 2007 Annual Report to
Shareholders. 

Item 7A  - Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures about Market
Risk 

See
"Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk" on page 25 of
Lowe s 2007 Annual Report to Shareholders. 

Item 8  - Financial Statements and Supplementary Data 

See
"Report of Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm" of Deloitte  
Touche LLP on page 27, the financial statements and notes thereto on pages 28
through 42, and the "Selected Quarterly Data" on page 43 of Lowe s 2007 Annual
Report to Shareholders. 

14 

Index 

Item 9  - Changes in and Disagreements with Accountants on
Accounting and Financial Disclosure 

None. 

Item 9A  - Controls and Procedures 

The
Company's management, with the participation of the Chief Executive Officer and
Chief Financial Officer, has evaluated the effectiveness of the Company s
 disclosure controls and procedures , (as such term is defined in
Rule 13a-15(e) promulgated under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as
amended, (the  Exchange Act )). Based upon their evaluation, the Chief Executive
Officer and Chief Financial Officer concluded that, as of the end of the period
covered by this report, the Company s disclosure controls and procedures were
effective for the purpose of ensuring that the information required to be
disclosed in the reports that the Company files or submits under the Exchange
Act with the Securities and Exchange Commission (the SEC) (1) is recorded,
processed, summarized and reported within the time periods specified in the
SEC s rules and forms, and (2) is accumulated and communicated to the
Company s management, including its principal executive and principal financial
officers, as appropriate to allow timely decisions regarding required
disclosure. 

In
addition, no change in the Company s internal control over financial reporting
occurred during the fiscal fourth quarter ended February 1, 2008 that has
materially affected, or is reasonably likely to materially affect, the Company s
internal control over financial reporting. 

Management s
report on internal control over financial reporting (as such term is defined in
Rule 13a-15(f) under the Exchange Act) and the report of Deloitte   Touche
LLP, the Company s independent registered public accounting firm, are included
in Lowe s 2007 Annual Report to Shareholders on pages 26 and 27 under the
headings,  Management s Report on Internal Control Over Financial Reporting  and
 Report of Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm,  respectively, and are
incorporated herein by reference. 

          Item 9B    Other Information 

None. 

15 

Index 

Part
III 

Item 10    Directors, Executive Officers  and Corporate
Governance 

Information
required by this item is furnished by incorporation by reference to all
information under the captions entitled, "Election of Directors," "Information
Concerning the Nominees," "Information Concerning Continuing Directors,"
"Information about the Board of Directors and Committees of the Board," and
"Section 16(a) Beneficial Ownership Reporting Compliance" included in the
definitive Proxy Statement which will be filed pursuant to regulation 14A, with
the SEC within 120 days after the fiscal year ended February 1, 2008 (the "Proxy
Statement").  The information required by this item with respect to
our executive officers appears in Part I of this Annual Report on Form 10-K
under the caption, "Executive Officers of the Registrant. " 

All
employees of the Company, including its Chief Executive Officer, Chief Financial
Officer and Chief Accounting Officer are required to abide by the Lowe's
Companies, Inc. and Subsidiaries Code of Business Conduct and Ethics (the
"Code"). The Code is designed to ensure that the Company's business is conducted
in a legal and ethical manner. The Code covers all areas of professional conduct
including compliance with laws and regulations, conflicts of interest, fair
dealing among customers and suppliers, corporate opportunity, confidential
information, insider trading, employee relations and accounting complaints. A
full text of the Code can be found at www.Lowes.com, under the "About Lowe s,"
 Investors  and "Code of Ethics" captions. You can also obtain a copy of the
complete Code by contacting Shareholder Services at 1-888-345-6937. 

We will
disclose information pertaining to amendments or waivers to provisions of our
Code that apply to our principal executive officer, principal financial officer,
principal accounting officer or persons performing similar functions and that
relate to the elements of our Code enumerated in the SEC rules and regulations
by posting this information on our website at www.Lowes.com. The information on
our website is not a part of this Annual Report and is not incorporated by
reference in this report or any of our other filings with the SEC. 

Item 11  - Executive Compensation 

Information
required by this item is furnished by incorporation by reference to all
information under the captions entitled, "Executive Officer Compensation" and
"Information about the Board of Directors and Committees of the Board  
Compensation of Directors" included in the Proxy Statement. 

Item 12  - Security Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owners and
Management and Related Stockholder Matters 

Information
required by this item is furnished by incorporation by reference to all
information under the captions entitled, "Security Ownership of Certain
Beneficial Owners and Management" and  Equity Compensation Plan Information 
included in the Proxy Statement. 

Item 13  - Certain Relationships and Related Transactions, and
Director Independence 

Information
required by this item is furnished by incorporation by reference to all
information under the captions entitled, "Related-Party Transactions" and
"Information about the Board of Directors and Committees of the Board - Director
Independence"   included
in the Proxy Statement. 

Item 14  - Principal Accounting Fees and Services 

Information
required by this item is furnished by incorporation by reference to all
information under the caption entitled, "Audit Matters - Fees Paid to the
Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm" included in the Proxy
Statement. 

16 

Index 

Part IV     

Item 15    Exhibits, Financial Statement Schedules 

a) 1.
 Financial
Statements  

        See the
following items and page numbers appearing in Lowe s 2007 Annual Report to
Shareholders: 

Page(s) 

Reports
      of Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm 

27 

Consolidated
      Statements of Earnings for each of the three fiscal years in the
      period ended February 1, 2008 

28 

Consolidated
      Balance Sheets at February 1, 2008 and February 2, 2007 

29 

Consolidated
      Statements of Shareholders' Equity for each of the three fiscal years
      in the period ended February 1, 2008 

30 

Consolidated
      Statements of Cash Flows for each of the three fiscal years in the
      period ended February 1, 2008 

31 

Notes
      to Consolidated Financial Statements for each of the three fiscal
      years in the period ended February 1, 2008 

32-42 

2.
 Financial
Statement Schedule  

REPORT
OF INDEPENDENT REGISTERED PUBLIC ACCOUNTING FIRM 

To the
Board of Directors and Shareholders of Lowe s Companies, Inc. 

        Mooresville,
North Carolina 

We have
audited the consolidated financial statements of Lowe s Companies, Inc. and
subsidiaries (the "Company") as of February 1, 2008 and February 2, 2007, and
for each of the three fiscal years in the period ended February 1, 2008, and the
Company's internal control over financial reporting as of February 1, 2008, and
have issued our reports thereon dated April 1, 2008; such consolidated financial
statements and reports are included in the Company s 2007 Annual Report to
Shareholders and are incorporated herein by reference.  Our audits
also included the consolidated financial statement schedule of the Company
listed in Item 15.  This consolidated financial statement schedule is
the responsibility of the Company's management.  Our responsibility is
to express an opinion based on our audits.  In our opinion, such
consolidated financial statement schedule, when considered in relation to the
basic consolidated financial statements taken as a whole, presents fairly, in
all material respects, the information set forth therein. 

/s/
Deloitte   Touche LLP  

Charlotte,
North Carolina 

           April
  1  ,
200  8    

17 

SCHEDULE II - VALUATION AND
QUALIFYING ACCOUNTS AND RESERVES  

(a) :    Represents
increase/(decrease) in the required reserve based on the Company s evaluation of
obsolete inventory. 

           (b) :    Represents
the actual inventory shrinkage experienced at the time of physical
inventories. 

           (c) :    Represents
increase/(decrease) in the required reserve based on the Company s evaluation of
anticipated merchandise returns. 

           (d) :    Represents
claim payments for self-insured claims. 

           (e) :    Represents
lease payments and adjustments, net of sublease income. 

18 

19 

20 

*
      Management contract or compensatory plan or arrangement required to be
      filed as an exhibit to this   form. 

21 

Index 

SIGNATURES  

Pursuant
to the requirements of Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of
1934, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by
the undersigned, thereunto duly authorized. 

LOWE S
      COMPANIES, INC. 

(Registrant) 

April
        1  ,
      200  8    

By:
      /s/ Robert A. Niblock  

Date 

Robert
      A. Niblock 

Chairman
      of the Board and Chief Executive Officer 

April
        1  ,
      200  8    

By:
      /s/ Robert F. Hull, Jr.  

Date 

Robert
      F. Hull, Jr. 

Executive
      Vice President and Chief Financial Officer 

April
        1  ,
      200  8    

By:
      /s/ Matthew V. Hollifield  

Date 

Matthew
      V. Hollifield 

Senior
      Vice President and Chief Accounting
Officer 

22 

Pursuant
to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, this report on Form
10-K has been signed below by the following persons on behalf of the Registrant
and in the capacities and on the dates indicated. Each of the directors of the
Registrant whose signature appears below hereby appoints Robert F. Hull, Jr.,
Matthew V. Hollifield and Gaither M. Keener, Jr., and each of them severally, as
his or her attorney-in-fact to sign in his or her name and behalf, in any and
all capacities stated below, and to file with the Securities and Exchange
Commission any and all amendments to this report on Form 10-K, making such
changes in this report on Form 10-K as appropriate, and generally to do all such
things in their behalf in their capacities as directors and/or officers to
enable the Registrant to comply with the provisions of the Securities Exchange
Act of 1934, and all requirements of the Securities and Exchange
Commission. 

/s/
      Robert A. Niblock  

Chairman
      of the Board of Directors, Chief Executive Officer and
      Director 

April
        1  ,
      200  8    

Robert
      A. Niblock  

Date  

/s/
      David W. Bernauer  

Director 

April
        1  ,
      200  8    

David
      W. Bernauer  

Date  

/s/
      Leonard L. Berry  

Director 

April
        1  ,
      200  8    

Leonard
      L. Berry  

Date  

/s/
      Peter C. Browning  

Director 

April
        1  ,
      200  8    

Peter
      C. Browning  

Date  

/s/
      Dawn E. Hudson  

Director 

April
        1  , 200  8    

Dawn
      E. Hudson  

Date  

/s/
      Robert A. Ingram  

Director 

April
        1  , 200  8    

Robert
      A. Ingram  

Date  

/s/
      Robert L. Johnson  

Director 

April
        1  , 200  8    

Robert
      L. Johnson  

Date  

/s/
      Marshall O. Larsen  

Director 

April
        1  , 200  8    

Marshall
      O. Larsen  

Date  

/s/
      Richard K. Lochridge  

Director 

April
        1  , 200  8    

Richard
      K. Lochridge  

Date  

/s/
      Stephen F. Page  

Director 

April
        1  , 200  8    

Stephen
      F. Page  

Date  

/s/
      O.   Temple
      Sloan  ,
      Jr.    

Director 

April
        1  , 200  8    

O.
        Temple     Sloan  ,
      Jr.    

Date  

23 

<EX-12.1>
 2
 exhibit121.htm
 EXHIBIT 12.1 - STATEMENT RE COMPUTATION OF RATIO OF EARNINGS TO FIXED CHARGES

exhibit121.htm 

Exhibit
12.1 

Lowe s
Companies, Inc. 

      Statement
Re Computation of Ratio of Earnings to Fixed Charges 

      In
Millions, Except Ratio Data 

</EX-12.1>

<EX-13>
 3
 exhibit13.htm
 EXHIBIT 13 - PORTIONS OF LOWE'S 2007 ANNUAL REPORT TO SHAREHOLDERS

exhibit13.htm 

Exhibit 13  

- Table of Contents-   

Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition
      and Results of Operations  

Management's Report on Internal Control Over Financial
      Reporting  

Reports of Independent Registered Public Accounting
      Firm  

Consolidated Statements of
      Earnings  

Consolidated Balance Sheets  

Consolidated Statements of Shareholders'
      Equity  

Consolidated Statements of Cash
  Flows  

Notes to Consolidated Financial
    Statements  

Selected Financial Data  

Quarterly Stock Price Range and Cash Dividend
      Payment  

MANAGEMENT'S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF  

       FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS  

This
discussion and analysis summarizes the significant factors affecting our
consolidated operating results, financial condition, liquidity and capital
resources during the three-year period ended February 1, 2008 (our fiscal years
2007, 2006 and 2005).  Fiscal years 2007 and 2006 contained 52 weeks
of operating results, compared to fiscal year 2005 which contained 53
weeks.  Unless otherwise noted, all references herein for the years
2007, 2006 and 2005 represent the fiscal years ended February 1, 2008, February
2, 2007, and February 3, 2006, respectively.  This discussion should
be read in conjunction with the consolidated financial statements and notes to
the consolidated financial statements included in this annual
report. 

EXECUTIVE
OVERVIEW 

External
Factors Impacting Our Business 

The home
improvement market is large and fragmented.  While we are the world s
second-largest home improvement retailer, we have captured a relatively small
portion of the overall home improvement market.  Based on the most
recent comprehensive data available, which is from 2006, we estimate the size of
the U.S. home improvement market to be approximately $755 billion annually,
comprised of $585 billion of product demand and $170 billion of installed labor
opportunity.  This data captures a wide range of categories relevant
to our business, including major appliances and garden supplies.  We
believe the current home improvement market provides ample opportunity to
support our growth plans. 

Net sales
totaled $48.3 billion in 2007, an increase of 2.9% versus the prior
year.  This increase was driven by our store expansion
program.  However, comparable store sales declined 5.1% in
2007.  The effects of a soft housing market, tight mortgage market,
continued deflationary pressures from lumber and plywood, and unseasonable
weather, including the exceptional drought in certain areas of U.S., pressured
our industry and contributed to lower than expected sales.  However,
our performance relative to the industry suggests we are providing
customer-valued solutions in a challenging sales environment. 

Over the
past several quarters we have used third-party home price information to define
three broad market groupings based on home price dynamics within those
markets.  These three categories included 1) markets that are
overpriced with a correction expected, 2) markets that are overpriced with no
correction expected and 3) markets that are not overpriced.  The
markets with the most overvalued home prices have generated the worst relative
results.  Markets with less impact on the housing front have generated
better relative comparable store sales.  However, as we have monitored
these markets, we have seen erosion in comparable store sales performance across
all three market categories. 

The sales
environment remains challenging, and the external pressures facing our industry
will continue in 2008.  We will continue to monitor the structural
drivers of demand including housing turnover, employment and personal disposable
income, as well as consumer sentiment related to home improvement.  We
anticipate that at least some of the headwinds will lessen as 2008
unfolds.  The effects of the recent economic stimulus package and the
Federal Reserve interest rate cuts could aid in stabilizing many of the factors
that pressured sales in 2007.  Additionally, normalized weather
following last year s unusual pattern could lead to better relative
results.  Even with these lessening headwinds, 2008 will be another
challenging year as many pressures on the home improvement consumer
remain. 

Managing
for the Long-Term 

Despite
the external pressures currently facing our industry, we continue to manage our
business for the long-term.  We will continue to focus on providing
customer-valued solutions and capitalizing on opportunities to gain market share
and strengthen our business.  However, in the short-term managing
expenses and capital spending is crucial.  We have and will continue
to look for opportunities to cut costs without sacrificing customer
service. 

1 

Capturing
Market Share 

Customer-Focused 

In this
challenging sales environment, we will continue to pursue our disciplines of
providing excellent customer service and gaining profitable market
share.  We continue to refine and improve our  Customer-Focused 
program which measures each store s performance relative to five key components
of customer satisfaction, including selling skills, delivery, installed sales,
checkout and phone answering.  The fact that we are providing great
service and value to our customers is evidenced by our continued strong market
share gains. 

Merchandising
and Marketing 

We
continue to enhance our product offerings to customers but with an awareness
that in many markets customers are more focused on maintenance versus
enhancement.  They are looking for great value at all price
points.  We are also continuing to diligently manage our seasonal
inventory to ensure we maximize sales, but minimize markdowns. 

A similar
awareness of market differences will drive our advertising plan in
2008.  We are focused on highlighting key maintenance projects and
inexpensive enhancements in markets suffering the biggest slowdown in housing,
while continuing to highlight larger projects in less impacted
markets. 

Growth
Opportunities 

We have
considerable growth opportunities and see the potential for 2,400 to 2,500
stores in North America.  In 2007, we opened 153 stores (149 new and
four relocated) in markets around the country, bringing our total to 1,534
stores in the U.S. and Canada.  We opened our first store in the state
of Vermont in January.  We now have stores in all 50 states, and we
still see many opportunities to continue to grow market share in the markets we
serve.  In addition, we opened our first stores outside the U.S. in
December, and, as of the end of 2007, we had six stores operating in the Greater
Toronto Area.  We are also preparing for the opening of our first
stores in Monterrey, Mexico, in 2009. 

Specialty
Sales 

We
recognize the opportunity that our Specialty Sales initiatives represent and the
importance of these businesses to our long-term growth.  Our Specialty
Sales initiatives include three major categories: Installed Sales, Special Order
Sales and Commercial Business Customer sales, internally referred to as the  Big
3.   In addition, our effort to utilize e-Commerce to drive sales and
conveniently provide product information to customers is managed by our
Specialty Sales group.  In fiscal 2007, both the Installed Sales and
Special Order Sales categories had growth in total sales, but comparable store
sales fell below the company average.  These categories continue to be
pressured by the weakness in bigger-ticket and more complex
projects.  This weakness is more pronounced in the most pressured
housing markets.  Contrasting the weakness has been the relative
strength in our Commercial Business Customer sales. Comparable store sales and
total sales growth for this category outpaced the company
average.  Our efforts to build relationships and serve the needs of
repair/remodelers, property maintenance professionals, and professional
tradespeople continue to drive results.  We feel that our continued
focus on the categories of this initiative that have the greatest opportunity
will produce growth. 

Expense
Management 

Centralized
Management 

We have
always been a centrally managed company, and we value the discipline and
consistency that comes with that structure.  We have built a regional
and district support infrastructure to ensure that occurs.  As we have
further penetrated U.S. markets, shortening the average distance between our
stores, the shortened distance has allowed us to increase the number of stores
in each district and region.  We are confident that we will continue
to have the oversight we need to ensure consistent application of our policies
and procedures under this evolving model, but, by expanding 

2 

the size
of the average district and region in 2008, we estimate we will save
approximately $10 million through a combination of cost avoidance and expense
reductions. 

Store
Staffing 

As sales
have slowed, we have seen de-leverage in selling, general and administrative
expense, primarily as a result of store payroll.  On an individual
store basis, our staffing model is designed to fluctuate with departmental sales
levels, but we have established a minimum level of employee hours for each
department.  As sales per store declined in 2007, more stores were
meeting our minimum staffing hours threshold, which increased the proportion of
fixed to total payroll expense.  Although this creates short-term
pressure on earnings, in the long-term it ensures that we maintain the high
service levels that customers have come to expect from
Lowe s.  However, we are continually refining our store staffing model
and as a result are planning a more conservative build into the spring season
this year.  We do not believe this staffing plan will affect service
levels should sales outpace our plan, as we are confident that we have the
ability to add the hours needed to continue to provide great service if sales
ramp up more quickly than we expect. 

Capital
Management 

New
Store Expansion 

We have
looked critically at our capital plan for 2008 and have made the decision to
reduce the number of new store openings in 2008 to 120 stores.  Most
of the reduction relates to stores that were planned for high-growth markets
like California and Florida, where current market conditions suggest sales may
fall short of our original forecasts.  We know these markets will
recover, and we will be ready to add stores when conditions
improve.  Despite the short-term pressures that have led to the
decision to delay store openings in certain markets, our long-term view of the
industry has not materially changed.  We estimate that our 2008
capital plan was reduced by approximately $255 million, due to the reduction in
new store openings planned for 2008.  However, we do not see a
significant overall reduction in the 2008 capital plan compared to prior years,
due to higher costs of constructing new stores, a shift in capital spending from
2007 to 2008 and investments in 2008 for stores that will open in the first part
of 2009. 

Investing
in Existing Stores 

Our
commitment to reinvesting in our existing store base remains
strong.  We continue to gain unit market share by improving the
shopping experience in our stores and by adding innovative products and services
that provide value to customers.  Despite the difficult sales
environment, routine maintenance will continue at the same pace, and we will
continue to ensure that we deliver a bright, clean, easy-to-shop store with
appropriate merchandising.  This is part of what differentiates
Lowe s, and that will not change.  However, we are working to ensure
that we are putting capital to use in ways that drive the best return both
short-term and long-term and will reduce the number of major remerchandising
projects in 2008 to approximately 80 from the 116 projects that were completed
in 2007.  We expect capital expenditures related to major
remerchandising projects in existing stores to be approximately $80 million in
2008 versus $122 million in 2007. 

3 

CRITICAL
ACCOUNTING POLICIES AND ESTIMATES 

The
following discussion and analysis of our financial condition and results of
operations is based on the consolidated financial statements and notes to
consolidated financial statements presented in this annual report that have been
prepared in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the
United States of America.  The preparation of these financial
statements requires us to make estimates that affect the reported amounts of
assets, liabilities, sales and expenses, and related disclosures of contingent
assets and liabilities.  We base these estimates on historical results
and various other assumptions believed to be reasonable, all of which form the
basis for making estimates concerning the carrying values of assets and
liabilities that are not readily available from other sources.  Actual
results may differ from these estimates. 

Our
significant accounting policies are described in Note 1 to the consolidated
financial statements. We believe that the following accounting policies affect
the most significant estimates and management judgments used in preparing the
consolidated financial statements. 

Merchandise
Inventory 

Description 

      We record
an inventory reserve for the loss associated with selling inventories below
cost.  This reserve is based on our current knowledge with respect to
inventory levels, sales trends and historical experience.  During
2007, our reserve increased approximately $1 million to $67 million as of
February 1, 2008.  We also record an inventory reserve for the
estimated shrinkage between physical inventories.  This reserve is
based primarily on actual shrinkage results from previous physical
inventories.  During 2007, the inventory shrinkage reserve increased
$8 million to $137 million as of February 1, 2008. 

Judgments
and uncertainties involved in the estimate 

      We do not
believe that our merchandise inventories are subject to significant risk of
obsolescence in the near term, and we have the ability to adjust purchasing
practices based on anticipated sales trends and general economic conditions.
However, changes in consumer purchasing patterns or a deterioration in product
quality could result in the need for additional reserves.  Likewise,
changes in the estimated shrink reserve may be necessary, based on the results
of physical inventories. 

Effect
if actual results differ from assumptions 

      Although
we believe that we have sufficient current and historical knowledge to record
reasonable estimates for both of these inventory reserves, it is possible that
actual results could differ from recorded reserves.  A 10% change in
our obsolete inventory reserve would have affected net earnings by approximately
$4 million for 2007.  A 10% change in our estimated
shrinkage reserve would have affected net earnings by approximately $9 million
for 2007. 

Long-Lived
Asset Impairment 

Description 

      We review
the carrying amounts of long-lived assets whenever events or changes in
circumstances indicate that the carrying amount may not be
recoverable. 

For
long-lived assets held for use, a potential impairment has occurred if projected
future undiscounted cash flows expected to result from the use and eventual
disposition of the assets are less than the carrying value of the
assets.  An impairment loss is recognized when the carrying amount of
the long-lived asset is not recoverable and exceeds its fair
value.  We estimate fair value based on projected future discounted
cash flows. 

For
long-lived assets to be abandoned, we consider the asset to be disposed of when
it ceases to be used.  Until it ceases to be used, we continue to
classify the assets as held for use and test for potential impairment
accordingly.  If we commit to a plan to abandon a long-lived asset
before the end of its previously estimated useful life, depreciation estimates
are revised. 

4 

For
long-lived assets held for sale, an impairment charge is recorded if the
carrying amount of the asset exceeds its fair value less cost to
sell.  Fair value is based on a market appraisal or a valuation
technique that considers various factors, including local market
conditions.  A long-lived asset is not depreciated while it is
classified as held for sale. 

We
recorded long-lived asset impairment charges of $28 million during
2007. 

Judgments
and uncertainties involved in the estimate 

      Our
impairment loss calculations require us to apply judgment in estimating expected
future cash flows, including estimated sales and earnings growth rates and
assumptions about market performance.  We also apply judgment in
estimating asset fair values, including the selection of a discount rate that
reflects the risk inherent in the company s current business model. 

Effect
if actual results differ from assumptions 

      If actual
results are not consistent with the assumptions and judgments used in estimating
future cash flows and asset fair values, actual impairment losses could vary
positively or negatively from estimated impairment losses.  A 10%
decrease in the estimated fair values of long-lived assets evaluated for
impairment would have decreased net earnings by approximately $4 million for
2007.  A 10% increase in the estimated fair values of long-lived
assets evaluated for impairment would have increased net earnings by
approximately $3 million for 2007. 

Self-Insurance 

Description 

      We are
self-insured for certain losses relating to workers  compensation, automobile,
property, general and product liability ,  extended warranty
 and certain medical
and dental  claims.  Self-insurance claims filed and claims
incurred but not reported are accrued based upon our estimates of the discounted
ultimate cost for self-insured claims incurred using actuarial assumptions
followed in the insurance industry and historical experience.  During
2007, our self-insurance liability increased approximately $21 million to $671
million as of February 1, 2008. 

Judgments
and uncertainties involved in the estimate 

      These
estimates are subject to changes in the regulatory environment, utilized
discount rate, payroll, sales and vehicle units, as well as the frequency, lag
and severity of claims. 

Effect
if actual results differ from assumptions 

      Although
we believe that we have the ability to reasonably estimate losses related to
claims, it is possible that actual results could differ from recorded
self-insurance liabilities.  A 10% change in our self-insurance
liability would have affected net earnings by approximately $42 million for
2007.  A 1% change in our discount rate would have affected net
earnings by approximately $10 million for 2007. 

Revenue
Recognition 

Description 

      See Note
1 to the consolidated financial statements for a complete discussion of our
revenue recognition policies.  The following accounting estimates
relating to revenue recognition require management to make assumptions and apply
judgment regarding the effects of future events that cannot be determined with
certainty. 

Revenues
from stored value cards, which include gift cards and returned merchandise
credits, are deferred and recognized when the cards are redeemed.  We
recognize income from unredeemed stored value cards at the point at which
redemption becomes remote.  Our stored value cards have no expiration date
or dormancy fees.  Therefore, to determine when redemption is remote,
we analyze an aging of the unredeemed cards based on the date of last stored
value card use. The deferred revenue associated with outstanding stored
value cards increased $18 million to $385 million as of February 1,
2008.  We recognized $15 million of income from unredeemed stored
value cards in 2007. 

We sell
separately-priced extended warranty contracts under a Lowe s-branded program for
which we are ultimately self-insured.  We recognize revenues from
extended warranty sales on a straight-line basis over the respective contract
term due to a lack of sufficient historical evidence indicating that costs of
performing services under the contracts are 

5 

incurred
on other than a straight-line basis.  Extended warranty contract terms
primarily range from one to four years from the date of purchase or the end of
the manufacturer s warranty, as applicable.  We consistently group and
evaluate extended warranty contracts based on the characteristics of the
underlying products and the coverage provided in order to monitor for expected
losses.  A loss would be recognized if the expected costs of
performing services under the contracts exceeded the amount of unamortized
acquisition costs and related deferred revenue associated with the
contracts.  Deferred revenues associated with the extended warranty
contracts increased $92 million to $407 million as of February 1,
2008. 

We record
a reserve for anticipated merchandise returns through a reduction of sales and
costs of sales in the period that the related sales are recorded. We use
historical return levels to estimate return rates, which are applied to sales
during the estimated average return period. During 2007, the merchandise returns
reserve decreased $4 million to $51 million as of February 1, 2008. 

Judgments
and uncertainties involved in the estimate 

      For
stored value cards, there is judgment inherent in our evaluation of when
redemption becomes remote and, therefore, when the related income is
recognized. 

For
extended warranties, there is judgment inherent in our evaluation of expected
losses as a result of our methodology for grouping and evaluating extended
warranty contracts and from the actuarial determination of the estimated cost of
the contracts.  There is also judgment inherent in our determination
of the recognition pattern of costs of performing services under these
contracts. 

For the
reserve for anticipated merchandise returns, there is judgment inherent in our
estimate of historical return levels and in the determination of the average
return period. 

Effect
if actual results differ from assumptions 

      We do not
anticipate that there will be a material change in the future estimates or
assumptions we use to recognize income related to unredeemed stored value cards.
However, if actual results are not consistent with our estimates or assumptions,
we may incur additional income or expense.  A 10% change in the
estimate of unredeemed stored value cards for which redemption is considered
remote would have affected net earnings by approximately $3 million in
2007. 

We
currently do not anticipate incurring any losses on our extended warranty
contracts.  Although we believe that we have the ability to adequately
monitor and estimate expected losses under the extended warranty contracts, it
is possible that actual results could differ from our estimates.  In
addition, if future evidence indicates that the costs of performing services
under these contracts are incurred on other than a straight-line basis, the
timing of revenue recognition under these contracts could change.  A
10% change in the amount of revenue recognized in 2007 under these contracts
would have affected net earnings by approximately $5 million. 

Although
we believe we have sufficient current and historical knowledge to record
reasonable estimates of sales returns, it is possible that actual returns could
differ from recorded amounts.  A 10% change in actual return rates
would have affected net earnings for 2007 by approximately $3
million.  A 10% change in the average return period would have
affected net earnings for 2007 by approximately $2 million. 

Vendor
Funds 

Description 

      We
receive funds from vendors in the normal course of business, principally as a
result of purchase volumes, sales, early payments or promotions of vendors 
products. 

Vendor
funds are treated as a reduction of inventory cost, unless they represent a
reimbursement of specific, incremental and identifiable costs incurred by the
customer to sell the vendor s product. Substantially all of the vendor funds
that we receive do not meet the specific, incremental and identifiable criteria.
Therefore, we treat the majority of these funds as a reduction in the cost of
inventory as the amounts are accrued, and recognize these funds as a reduction
of cost of sales when the inventory is sold. 

6 

Judgments
and uncertainties involved in the estimate 

      Based on
the provisions of the vendor agreements in place, we develop vendor fund accrual
rates by estimating the point at which we will have completed our performance
under the agreement and the agreed-upon amounts will be earned.  Due
to the complexity and diversity of the individual vendor agreements, we perform
analyses and review historical trends throughout the year to ensure the amounts
earned are appropriately recorded.  As a part of these analyses, we
validate our accrual rates based on actual purchase trends and apply those rates
to actual purchase volumes to determine the amount of funds accrued and
receivable from the vendor.  Amounts accrued throughout the year could
be impacted if actual purchase volumes differ from projected annual purchase
volumes, especially in the case of programs that provide for increased funding
when graduated purchase volumes are met. 

Effect
if actual results differ from assumptions 

      If actual
results are not consistent with the assumptions and estimates used, we could be
exposed to additional adjustments that could positively or negatively impact
gross margin and inventory.  However, substantially all receivables
associated with these activities are collected within the following fiscal year
and therefore do not require subjective long-term
estimates.  Adjustments to gross margin and inventory in the following
fiscal year have historically not been material. 

7 

OPERATIONS 

The
following table sets forth the percentage relationship to net sales of each line
item of the consolidated statements of earnings, as well as the percentage
change in dollar amounts from the prior year. This table should be read in
conjunction with the following discussion and analysis and the consolidated
financial statements, including the related notes to the consolidated financial
statements. 

8 

1
  Fiscal years 2007 and
2006 had 52 weeks.  Fiscal year 2005 had 53 weeks.  

       2 
 We define a comparable store
as a store that has been open longer than 13 months.      A store that is identified for
relocation is no longer considered comparable one month prior to its
relocation.  The relocated store must then    remain
open longer than 13 months to be considered comparable. The comparable store
sales increase for 2006 included in the preceding table was calculated using
sales for a comparable 52-week period, while the comparable store sales increase
for 2005 was calculated using sales for a comparable 53-week
period. 

       3   We define average ticket as net
sales divided by the number of customer transactions.  

       4   We define average store size
selling square feet as sales floor square feet divided by the number of stores
open at the end of the period.  

       5
  Return on average
assets is defined as net earnings divided by average total assets for the last
five quarters.  

       6   Return on average shareholders 
equity is defined as net earnings divided by average shareholders  equity for
the last five quarters.  

Fiscal
2007 Compared to Fiscal 2006 

Net sales    Sales increased
2.9% to $48.3 billion in 2007.  The increase in sales was driven
primarily by our store expansion program.  We opened 153 stores in
2007, including four relocations, and ended the year with 1,534 stores in the
U.S. and Canada.  However, a challenging sales environment led to a
decline in comparable store sales of 5.1% in 2007 versus flat comparable store
sales in 2006.  Total customer transactions increased 5.9% compared to
2006, while average ticket decreased 2.8% to $67.05, a reflection of fewer
project sales.  Comparable store customer transactions declined 1.8%
and comparable store average ticket declined 3.3% compared to 2006. 

Comparable
store sales declined 6.3%, 2.6%, 4.3% and 7.6% in the first, second, third and
fourth quarters of 2007, respectively.  Our industry was pressured by
the soft housing market, the tight mortgage market, continued deflationary
pressures from lumber and plywood, and unseasonable weather, including the
exceptional drought in certain areas of the U.S.  From a geographic
market perspective, we continued to see dramatic differences in
performance.  Our worst performing markets included those areas that
had been most impacted by the dynamics of the housing market, including
California and Florida.  These areas and the Gulf Cost reduced total
company comparable store sales by approximately 250 basis points for the
year.  Contrasting with those markets, we saw relatively better
comparable store sales performance in our markets in the central U.S. that have
had less impact from the housing market. Two of these markets, which include
areas of Texas and Oklahoma, delivered positive comparable store sales in 2007
and had a positive impact on total company comparable store sales of
approximately 100 basis points for the year. 

Reflective
of the difficult sales environment, only two of our 19 product categories
experienced comparable store sales increases in 2007.  The categories
that performed above our average comparable store sales change included rough
plumbing, lawn   landscape products, hardware, paint, lighting, nursery,
fashion plumbing and appliances.  In addition, outdoor power equipment
performed at approximately our average comparable store sales change in
2007.  Despite the difficult sales environment, we were able to gain
unit market share of 80 basis points for the total store in calendar year 2007,
according to third-party estimates.  Continued strong unit market
share gains indicate that we are providing great service and value to
customers. 

Our Big 3
Specialty Sales initiatives had mixed results in 2007.  Growth in
Installed Sales was 2.8% and growth in Special Order Sales was 0.5% in 2007,
while comparable store sales declined 5.5% for Installed Sales and 8.1% for
Special Order Sales as a result of the weakness in bigger-ticket and more
complex projects.  For the year, Installed Sales was approximately 6%
of our total sales and Special Order Sales was approximately 8%.  In
contrast, total sales growth for Commercial Business Customers outpaced the
company average. 

Gross margin -  For 2007,
gross margin of 34.64% represented a 12-basis-point increase over
2006.  This increase as a percentage of sales was primarily driven by
leverage of 13 basis points related to positive product mix shifts, 11 basis
points related to increased penetration of imported goods and five basis points
of improved inventory shrink results.  This leverage was partially
offset by de-leverage of 13 basis points in transportation costs primarily
attributable to rising fuel costs, and seven basis points as a result of
start-up costs for new distribution facilities. 

9 

SG A -  The increase in
SG A as a percentage of sales from 2006 to 2007 was primarily driven by
de-leverage of 67 basis points in store payroll as a result of the weak sales
environment. As sales per store declined, stores were meeting our minimum
staffing hours threshold which increased the proportion of fixed to total
payroll.  Although this creates short-term pressure on earnings, in
the long-term it ensures that we maintain the high service levels that customers
have come to expect from Lowe s. In addition, we saw de-leverage of eight basis
points in retirement plan expenses as a result of changes to the 401k plan to
replace the performance match program with an increased baseline
match.  No performance match was earned in 2006.  We also
had de-leverage in fixed expenses such as rent, utilities and property taxes as
a result of softer sales.  These items were partially offset by
leverage of 23 basis points in advertising expense, primarily attributable to
reduced spending on tab production and distribution, and national television
advertising. 

Store opening costs -  Store
opening costs, which include payroll and supply costs incurred prior to store
opening as well as grand opening advertising costs, totaled $141 million in
2007, compared to $146 million in 2006.  These costs are associated
with the opening of 153 stores in 2007 (149 new and four relocated), as compared
with the opening of 155 stores in 2006 (151 new and four
relocated).  Store opening costs for stores opened during the year in
the U.S. averaged approximately $0.8 million and $0.9 million per store in 2007
and 2006, respectively.  Store opening costs for stores opened during
the year in Canada averaged approximately $2.4 million per store in 2007 as a
result of additional expenses necessary to enter a new
market.  Because store opening costs are expensed as incurred, the
timing of expense recognition fluctuates based on the timing of store
openings. 

Depreciation -  Depreciation
de-leveraged 35 basis points as a percentage of sales in 2007.  This
de-leverage was driven by the opening of 153 stores in 2007 and negative
comparable store sales.  Property, less accumulated depreciation,
increased to $21.4 billion at February 1, 2008, compared to $19.0 billion at
February 2, 2007.  At February 1, 2008, we owned 87% of our stores,
compared to 86% at February 2, 2007, which includes stores on leased
land. 

Interest -  Net interest
expense is comprised of the following: 

Interest
expense increased primarily as a result of the September 2007 $1.3 billion debt
issuance and the October 2006 $1 billion debt issuance, partially offset by an
increase in capitalized interest. 

Income tax provision -  Our
effective income tax rate was 37.7% in 2007 versus 37.9% in 2006.  The
decrease in the effective tax rate was due to a continuation of the effect of
increased federal tax credits associated with Welfare to Work and Work
Opportunity Tax Credit programs as well as increased state tax credits related
to our investments in employees and property. 

Fiscal
2006 Compared to Fiscal 2005 

For the
purpose of the following discussion, comparable store sales, comparable store
average ticket and comparable store customer transactions are based on
comparable 52-week periods. 

Net sales    Our continued
focus on executing the fundamentals and providing customer-valued solutions
together with our store expansion program drove sales of $46.9 billion in
2006.  We opened 155 stores in 2006, including four relocations, and
ended the year with 1,385 stores in 49 states.  The additional week in
2005 resulted in approximately $750 million in additional net sales in
2005.  Excluding the additional week, net sales would have increased
approximately 10% in 2006. 

Comparable
store sales were flat in 2006 versus a comparable store sales increase of 6.1%
in 2005.  Total customer transactions increased 6.4% compared to 2005,
and average ticket increased 1.9% to $68.98.  Average ticket and
customer transactions for comparable stores were relatively flat versus the
prior year. 

10 

Sales in
many areas of the country were pressured by the slowdown in the housing
market.  Markets in the Northeast, Florida and California were most
exposed to the slowdown in housing in 2006 and reduced total company comparable
store sales by approximately 150 basis points for the year.  Sales
trends in those markets clearly indicated a cautious home improvement
consumer.  Also, areas of the Gulf Coast and Florida, which
experienced increased demand in 2005 related to rebuilding from the hurricanes,
experienced comparable store sales declines of 18.7% in the second half of
2006. 

Reflective
of the difficult sales environment, 11 of our 20 product categories experienced
comparable store sales increases in 2006.  The categories that
performed above our average comparable store sales change included rough
plumbing, building materials, rough electrical, home environment, paint, fashion
plumbing, flooring, nursery, seasonal living, and lawn   landscape
products.  In addition, hardware performed at approximately our
average comparable store sales change in 2006.  Despite the difficult
sales environment, we were able to gain unit market share in all of our 20
product categories versus the prior calendar year, according to third-party
estimates. 

Outdoor
power equipment and lumber experienced the greatest comparable store sales
declines in 2006.  Comparable store generator sales were down 34% for
the year, compared to strong sales driven by the 2005
hurricanes.  Additionally, a warmer than normal winter led to
comparable store sales declines for snow throwers.  However, despite
the difficult sales environment, we experienced a 2% unit market share gain in
outdoor power equipment in calendar year 2006.  Lumber and plywood
experienced more than 15% cost deflation and similar retail price deflation in
2006. 

Our Big 3
Specialty Sales initiatives had mixed results in 2006.  A hesitation
to take on large projects by some consumers had an impact on our Installed Sales
and Special Order Sales in the second half of 2006.  Installed Sales
increased 9% over 2005. Special Order Sales increased 5% over
2005.  In contrast, sales growth for Commercial Business Customers was
nearly double the company average. 

Gross margin -  For 2006,
gross margin of 34.52% represented a 32-basis-point increase over
2005.  This increase as a percentage of sales was primarily due to
leverage of 20 basis points related to positive product mix shifts and a greater
proportion of imported goods, which typically have lower acquisition
costs.  For 2006, we imported approximately 11% of our goods, compared
to approximately 9.5% in the prior year.  These items were slightly
offset by de-leverage of nine basis points in inventory shrink as a percentage
of sales. 

SG A -  The decrease in
SG A as a percentage of sales from 2005 to 2006 was primarily due to lower
expenses related to bonus and retirement plans.  Our performance-based
bonus and retirement expenses fluctuate with our sales and earnings performance
relative to plan, and decreased approximately $200 million, or 50 basis points,
in 2006.  In addition, insurance expense leveraged 12 basis points in
2006, a result of our ongoing safety initiatives and the benefits of regulatory
changes in certain states, which contributed to actuarial projections of lower
costs to settle claims.  These items were partially offset by
de-leverage in store payroll.  As sales slowed throughout the year,
our stores adjusted their hours accordingly.  However, because of our
base staffing requirements and customer service standards, we chose not to
reduce payroll at the same rate as sales. 

Store opening costs -  Store
opening costs, which include payroll and supply costs incurred prior to store
opening as well as grand opening advertising costs, totaled $146 million in
2006, compared to $142 million in 2005.  These costs are associated
with the opening of 155 stores in 2006 (151 new and four relocated), as compared
with the opening of 150 stores in 2005 (147 new and three
relocated).  Store opening costs for stores opened during the year
averaged approximately $0.9 million per store in 2006 and
2005.  Because store opening costs are expensed as incurred, the
timing of expense recognition fluctuates based on the timing of store
openings. 

Depreciation -  Depreciation
de-leveraged 21 basis points as a percentage of sales in 2006.  This
de-leverage was driven by growth in assets and the softer sales
environment.  At February 2, 2007, we owned 86% of our stores,
compared to 84% at February 3, 2006, which includes stores on leased
land.  Property, less accumulated depreciation, increased to $19.0
billion at February 2, 2007, compared to $16.4 billion at February 3,
2006.  The increase in property resulted primarily from our store
expansion program as well as our remerchandising efforts. 

11 

Interest -  Net interest
expense is comprised of the following: 

Interest
expense increased primarily due to the October 2006 $1 billion debt issuance,
partially offset by lower interest expense on convertible debt due to
conversions during 2006.  Interest expense relating to capital leases
was $34 million for 2006 and $39 million for 2005.  Amortization of
loan costs decreased in 2006 versus the prior year as a result of increased debt
conversions. 

Income tax provision -  Our
effective income tax rate was 37.9% in 2006 versus 38.5% in 2005.  The
decrease in the effective tax rate was the result of increased federal tax
credits associated with Welfare to Work and Work Opportunity Tax Credit programs
and increased state tax credits related to our investments in employees and
property. 

FINANCIAL
CONDITION, LIQUIDITY AND CAPITAL RESOURCES 

Cash
Flows 

The
following table summarizes the components of the consolidated statements of cash
flows. This table should be read in conjunction with the following discussion
and analysis and the consolidated financial statements, including the related
notes to the consolidated financial statements: 

Cash
flows from operating activities provide a significant source of our
liquidity.  The change in cash flows from operating activities in 2007
compared to 2006 resulted primarily from decreased net earnings and an increase
in inventory as a result of our store expansion program, partially offset by an
increase in deferred revenue associated with our extended warranty
program.  The change in cash flows from operating activities in 2006
compared to 2005 resulted primarily from increased net earnings and increased
days payable outstanding, partially offset by the timing of tax payments and a
decline in deferred revenue associated with Specialty Sales. 

The
primary component of net cash used in investing activities continues to be
opening new stores, investing in existing stores through resets and
remerchandising, and investing in our distribution center and information
technology infrastructure.  Cash acquisitions of fixed assets were
$4.0 billion for 2007, $3.9 billion in 2006 and $3.4 billion in
2005.  The February 1, 2008, retail selling space of 174 million
square feet represented an 11% increase over February 2, 2007.  The
February 2, 2007, retail selling space of 157 million square feet represented a
12% increase over February 3, 2006. 

The
change in cash flows from financing activities in 2007 compared to 2006 resulted
primarily from increased short-term and long-term borrowings.  This
was offset by greater repurchases of common stock under our share repurchase
program in 2007 compared to 2006 and an increase in dividends paid from $0.18
per share in 2006 to $0.29 per share in 2007.  The change in cash
flows from financing activities in 2006 compared to 2005 resulted primarily from
greater 

12 

repurchases
of common stock.  The ratio of debt to equity plus debt was 29.3% and
22.0% as of the years ended 2007 and 2006, respectively. 

Sources
of Liquidity 

In
addition to our cash flows from operations, additional liquidity is provided by
our short-term borrowing facilities.  In June 2007, we entered into an
Amended and Restated Credit Agreement (Amended Facility) to modify the senior
credit facility by extending the maturity date to June 2012 and providing for
borrowings of up to $1.75 billion versus $1.0 billion under the previous
facility.  The Amended Facility supports our commercial paper and
revolving credit programs.  Borrowings made are unsecured and are
priced at a fixed rate based upon market conditions at the time of funding in
accordance with the terms of the Amended Facility. The Amended Facility contains
certain restrictive covenants, which include maintenance of a debt leverage
ratio as defined by the Amended Facility.  We were in compliance with
those covenants at February 1, 2008.  Seventeen banking institutions
are participating in the Amended Facility.  As of February 1, 2008,
there was $1.0 billion outstanding under the commercial paper program that was
issued in the fourth quarter.  The weighted-average interest rate on
the outstanding commercial paper was 3.92%. 

In
October 2007, we established a Canadian dollar (C$) denominated credit facility
in the amount of C$50 million, which provides revolving credit support for our
Canadian operations.  This uncommitted facility provides us the
ability to make unsecured borrowings that are priced at a fixed rate based upon
market conditions at the time of funding in accordance with the terms of the
credit facility.  As of February 1, 2008, there were no borrowings
outstanding under the credit facility. 

In
January 2008, we entered into a C$ denominated credit agreement in the amount of
C$200 million for the purpose of funding the build-out of retail stores in
Canada and for working capital and other general corporate
purposes.  Borrowings made are unsecured and are priced at a fixed
rate based upon market conditions at the time of funding in accordance with the
terms of the credit agreement.  The credit agreement contains certain
restrictive covenants, which include maintenance of a debt leverage ratio as
defined by the credit agreement.  We were in compliance with those
covenants at February 1, 2008.  Three banking institutions are
participating in the credit agreement.  As of February 1, 2008, there
was C$60 million or the equivalent of $60 million outstanding under the credit
facility.  The interest rate on the short-term borrowing was
5.75%. 

Five
banks have extended lines of credit aggregating $789 million for the purpose of
issuing documentary letters of credit and standby letters of credit. These lines
do not have termination dates and are reviewed periodically. Commitment fees
ranging from .225% to .50% per annum are paid on the standby letters of credit
amounts outstanding. Outstanding letters of credit totaled $299 million as of
February 1, 2008, and $346 million as of February 2, 2007. 

Cash
Requirements 

Capital
Expenditures 

Our 2008
capital budget is approximately $4.2 billion, inclusive of approximately $350
million of lease commitments, resulting in a net cash outflow of $3.8 billion in
2008.  Approximately 81% of this planned commitment is for store
expansion.  Expansion plans for 2008 consist of approximately 120 new
stores.  This planned expansion is expected to increase sales floor square
footage by approximately 8%.  All of the 2008 projects will be owned, which
includes approximately 29% that will be ground-leased
properties.  

On
February 1, 2008, we owned and operated 13 regional distribution centers
(RDCs).  We opened new RDCs in Rockford, Illinois and Lebanon, Oregon
in 2007.  We will open our next RDC in Pittston, Pennsylvania in the
second half of 2008.  On February 1, 2008, we also operated 14 flatbed
distribution centers (FDCs) for the handling of lumber, building materials and
other long-length items.  We opened a new FDC in Port of Stockton,
California in 2007.  We owned 12 and leased two of these
FDCs.  We expect to open an additional FDC in Purvis, Mississippi in
2008. 

13 

Debt
and Capital 

In
September 2007, we issued $1.3 billion of unsecured senior notes, comprised of
three tranches: $550 million of 5.60% senior notes maturing in September 2012,
$250 million of 6.10% senior notes maturing in September 2017 and $500 million
of 6.65% senior notes maturing in September 2037.  Interest on the
senior notes is payable semiannually in arrears in March and September of each
year until maturity, beginning in March 2008. 

From
their issuance through the end of 2007, principal amounts of $985 million, or
approximately 98%, of our February 2001 convertible notes had converted from
debt to equity.  In 2007, $18 million in principal amounts
converted. 

Holders
of the senior convertible notes, issued in October 2001, may convert their notes
into 34.424 shares of the company s common stock only if: the closing share
price of the company s common stock reaches specified thresholds, or the credit
rating of the notes is below a specified level, or the notes are called for
redemption, or specified corporate transactions representing a change in control
have occurred.  There is no indication that we will not be able to
maintain the minimum investment grade rating.  From their issuance
through the end of 2007, an insignificant amount of the senior convertible notes
had converted from debt to equity.  During the fourth quarter of 2006
and the first and second quarters of 2007, our closing share prices reached the
specified threshold such that the senior convertible notes became convertible at
the option of each holder into shares of common stock in the first, second and
third quarters of 2007.  The senior convertible notes did not become
convertible in the fourth quarter of 2007 and will not become convertible in the
first quarter of 2008, because our closing share prices did not reach the
specified threshold. Cash interest payments on the senior convertible notes
ceased in October 2006.  We may redeem for cash all or a portion of
the notes at any time, at a price equal to the sum of the issue price plus
accrued original issue discount on the redemption date. 

Our debt
ratings at February 1, 2008, were as follows: 

Current
      Debt Ratings 

S P 

Moody s 

Fitch 

Commercial
      Paper 

A1 

P1 

F1+ 

Senior
      Debt 

A+ 

A1 

A+ 

Outlook 

Stable 

Stable 

Stable 

On March
13, 2008, Fitch downgraded our commercial paper rating to F1 from F1+ and
affirmed our senior debt rating at A+, changing our outlook to negative from
stable. 

We
believe that net cash provided by operating activities and financing activities
will be adequate for our expansion plans and other operating requirements over
the next 12 months.  However, the availability of funds through the
  issuance
of commercial paper and new debt could be adversely affected due to a debt
rating downgrade or a deterioration of certain financial ratios.  In
addition, continuing volatility in the capital markets may affect our ability to
access those markets for additional borrowings or increase costs associated with
raising funds. There are no provisions in any agreements that would require
early cash settlement of existing debt or leases as a result of a downgrade in
our debt rating or a decrease in our stock price. 

We are
committed to maintaining strong commercial paper ratings through the management
of debt-related ratios. 

Dividends
and Share Repurchases 

Our
quarterly cash dividend was increased in 2007 to $.08 per share, a 60% increase
over the prior year. 

As of
February 2, 2007, the total remaining authorization under the share repurchase
program was $1.5 billion.  On May 25, 2007 the Board of Directors
authorized up to an additional $3.0 billion in share repurchases through 2009.
This program is implemented through purchases made from time to time either in
the open market or through private transactions.  Shares purchased
under the share repurchase program are retired and returned to authorized and
unissued status.  During 2007, we repurchased 76.4 million shares at a
total cost of $2.3 billion.  As of February 1, 2008, the  

14 

total
remaining authorization under the share repurchase program was $2.2
billion.  Our current outlook for 2008 does not assume any share
repurchases.  

OFF-BALANCE
SHEET ARRANGEMENTS 

Other
than in connection with executing operating leases, we do not have any
off-balance sheet financing that has, or is reasonably likely to have, a
material, current or future effect on our financial condition, cash flows,
results of operations, liquidity, capital expenditures or capital
resources. 

CONTRACTUAL
OBLIGATIONS AND COMMERCIAL COMMITMENTS 

The
following table summarizes our significant contractual obligations and
commercial commitments: 

1     Amounts do not include taxes, common
area maintenance, insurance or contingent rent because these amounts have
historically been insignificant.  

       2 
 Represents contracts for
purchases of merchandise inventory, property and construction of buildings, as
well as commitments related to certain marketing and information technology
programs.  

       3 
 Letters of credit are issued
for the purchase of import merchandise inventories, real estate and construction
contracts, and insurance programs.  

We
adopted FIN 48,  Accounting for Uncertainty in Income Taxes,  effective February
3, 2007.  At February 1, 2008, approximately $9 million of the reserve
for uncertain tax positions (including penalties and interest) was classified as
a current liability.  At this time, we are unable to make a reasonably
reliable estimate of the timing of payments in individual years beyond 12
months, due to uncertainties in the timing of the effective settlement of tax
positions. 

COMPANY
OUTLOOK 

As of
February 25, 2008, the date of our fourth quarter 2007 earnings release, we
expected to open approximately 120 stores during 2008, resulting in total square
footage growth of approximately 8%.  We expected total sales to
increase approximately 3% and comparable store sales to decline 5% to
6%.  EBIT margin, defined as earnings before interest and taxes, was
expected to decline approximately 180 basis points. In addition, store opening
costs were expected to be approximately $109 million. Diluted earnings per share
of $1.50 to $1.58 were expected for the fiscal year ending January 30,
2009. 

15 

QUANTITATIVE
AND QUALITATIVE DISCLOSURES ABOUT MARKET RISK 

Interest
Rate Risk 

Our
primary market risk exposure is the potential loss arising from the impact of
changing interest rates on long-term debt.  Our policy is to monitor
the interest rate risks associated with this debt, and we believe any
significant risks could be offset by accessing variable-rate instruments
available through our lines of credit.  The following tables summarize
our market risks associated with long-term debt, excluding capital leases and
other.  The tables present principal cash outflows and related
interest rates by year of maturity, excluding unamortized original issue
discounts as of February 1, 2008, and February 2, 2007.  Variable
interest rates are based on the weighted-average rates of the portfolio at the
end of the year presented.  The fair values included below were
determined using quoted market rates or interest rates that are currently
available to us on debt with similar terms and remaining
maturities. 

Commodity
Price Risk 

We
purchase certain commodity products that are subject to price volatility caused
by factors beyond our control.  Our most significant commodity
products are lumber and building materials.  Selling prices of these
commodity products are influenced, in part, by the market price we pay, which is
determined by industry supply and demand.  During 2007 and 2006,
lumber price and building materials price inflation did not have a material
effect on our results of operations. 

Additionally,
our transportation costs are affected by the price volatility of
fuel.  While we have experienced price movement in 2006 and 2007, it
did not have a material effect on our results of operations. 

16 

Foreign
Currency Exchange Rate Risk 

Although
we have international operating entities, our exposure to foreign currency
exchange rate fluctuations is not significant to our financial condition and
results of operations. 

Credit
Risk 

Sales
generated through our proprietary credit cards are not reflected in our
receivables.  General Electric Company and its subsidiaries (GE) own
the total portfolio and perform all program-related services.  The
agreements provide that we receive funds from or make payments to GE based upon
the expected future profits or losses from our proprietary credit cards after
taking into account the cost of capital, certain costs of the proprietary credit
card program and, subject to contractual limits, the program s actual loss
experience.  Actual losses and operating costs in excess of
contractual limits are absorbed by GE.  During 2007 and 2006, costs
associated with our proprietary credit card program did not have a material
effect on our results of operations. 

17 

Table of Contents 

Disclosure
Regarding Forward-Looking Statements 

We speak
throughout this Annual Report about our future, particularly in the  Letter to
Shareholders  and  Management s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition
and Results of Operations.  While we believe our estimates and expectations are
reasonable, they are not guarantees of future performance.  Our actual
results could differ substantially from our expectations because, for
example: 

Our
sales are dependent upon the health and stability of the general economy. We
monitor key economic indicators including real disposable personal income,
employment, housing turnover and homeownership levels. In   addition ,  changes in the level of repairs, remodeling and
additions to existing homes, changes in commercial building activity, and the
availability and cost of mortgage financing can impact our
business. 

Major
weather-related events and unseasonable weather may impact sales of seasonal
merchandise.  Prolonged and widespread drought conditions could hurt
our sales of lawn and garden and related products. 

Our
expansion strategy may be impacted by environmental regulations, local zoning
issues, availability and development of land, and more stringent land use
regulations. Furthermore, our ability to secure a highly qualified workforce is
an important element to the success of our expansion strategy. 

Our
business is highly competitive, and, as we build an increasing percentage of our
new stores in larger markets and utilize new sales channels such as the
internet, we may face new and additional forms of competition. 

The
ability to continue our everyday low pricing strategy and provide the products
that customers want depends on our vendors providing a reliable supply of
products at competitive prices and our ability to effectively manage our
inventory. As an increasing number of the products we sell are imported, any
restrictions or limitations on importation of such products, political or
financial instability in some of the countries from which we import them, or a
failure to comply with laws and regulations of those countries from which we
import them could interrupt our supply of imported inventory. 

Our
goal of increasing our market share and our commitment to keeping our prices low
requires us to make substantial investments in new technology and processes
whose benefits could take longer than expected to be realized and which could be
difficult to implement and integrate. 

For more
information about these and other risks and uncertainties that we are exposed
to, you should read the  Risk Factors  included in our Annual Report on Form
10-K to the United States Securities and Exchange Commission. All
forward-looking statements in this report speak only as of the date of this
report or, in the case of any document incorporated by reference, the date of
that document. All subsequent written and oral forward-looking statements
attributable to us or any person acting on our behalf are qualified by the
cautionary statements in this section and in the  Risk Factors  included in our
Annual Report on Form 10-K. We do not undertake any obligation to update or
publicly release any revisions to forward-looking statements to reflect events,
circumstances or changes in expectations after the date of this
report. 

Management s Report on Internal Control Over Financial
Reporting  

Management
of Lowe s Companies, Inc. and its subsidiaries is responsible for establishing
and maintaining adequate internal control over financial reporting (Internal
Control)  as defined in Rule 13a-15(f) under the
Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended .   Our  Internal Control was designed to provide
reasonable assurance to our management and the board of directors regarding the
 reliability of financial reporting and the
 preparation and fair presentation of published financial
statements. 

All
internal control systems, no matter how well designed, have inherent
limitations, including the possibility of human error and the circumvention or
overriding of controls. Therefore, even those systems determined to be effective
can provide only reasonable assurance with respect to  the reliability of financial reporting and
 financial statement preparation and presentation.  Further,
because of changes in conditions, the effectiveness may  vary  over time. 

18 

Table of Contents 

Our
management, with the participation of the Chief Executive Officer and Chief
Financial Officer, evaluated the effectiveness of  our 
Internal Control as of February 1, 2008. In  evaluating
our Internal Control,   we 
used the criteria set forth by the Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of the
Treadway Commission (COSO) in  Internal
Control Integrated Framework . Based on  our
management s assessment, we have concluded  that, as of February 1, 2008,
 our 
Internal Control is effective. 

Deloitte
  Touche LLP, the independent registered public accounting firm  that
audited the financial statements contained in this report,   was
engaged to audit  our  Internal
Control . Their report appears on page 27. 

Report of Independent Registered Public Accounting
Firm  

To the
Board of Directors and Shareholders of Lowe s Companies, Inc. 

      Mooresville,
North Carolina 

We have
audited the accompanying consolidated balance sheets of Lowe s Companies, Inc.
and subsidiaries (the "Company") as of February 1, 2008 and February 2, 2007,
and the related consolidated statements of earnings, shareholders' equity, and
cash flows for each of the three fiscal years in the period ended February 1,
2008.  These financial statements are the responsibility of the
Company's management.  Our responsibility is to express an opinion on
these financial statements based on our audits. 

We
conducted our audits in accordance with the standards of the Public Company
Accounting Oversight Board (United States).  Those standards require
that we plan and perform the audit to obtain reasonable assurance about whether
the financial statements are free of material misstatement.  An audit
includes examining, on a test basis, evidence supporting the amounts and
disclosures in the financial statements.  An audit also includes
assessing the accounting principles used and significant estimates made by
management, as well as evaluating the overall financial statement
presentation.  We believe that our audits provide a reasonable basis
for our opinion. 

In our
opinion, such consolidated financial statements present fairly, in all material
respects, the financial position of the Company at February 1, 2008 and February
2, 2007, and the results of its operations and its cash flows for each of the
three fiscal years in the period ended February 1, 2008, in conformity with
accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of
America. 

We have
also audited, in accordance with the standards of the Public Company Accounting
Oversight Board (United States), the Company's internal control over financial
reporting as of February 1, 2008, based on the criteria established in  Internal Control Integrated
Framework  issued by the Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of the
Treadway Commission and our report dated April 1, 2008 expressed an unqualified
opinion on the Company's internal control over financial reporting. 

/s/ Deloitte   Touche
LLP 

Charlotte,
North Carolina 

      April 1,
2008 

Report
of Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm 

To the
Board of Directors and Shareholders of Lowe s Companies, Inc. 

      Mooresville,
North Carolina 

We have
audited the internal control over financial reporting of Lowe s Companies, Inc.
and subsidiaries (the "Company") as of February 1, 2008 based on criteria
established in  Internal
Control   Integrated Framework  issued by the Committee of Sponsoring
Organizations of the Treadway Commission.  The Company's management is
responsible for maintaining effective internal control over financial reporting
and for its assessment of the effectiveness of internal control over financial
reporting, included in the accompanying Management s Report on  

19 

Internal
Control Over Financial Reporting.  Our responsibility is to express an
opinion on the Company's internal control over financial reporting based on our
audit. 

We conducted
our audit in accordance with the standards of the Public Company Accounting
Oversight Board (United States).  Those standards require that we plan
and perform the audit to obtain reasonable assurance about whether effective
internal control over financial reporting was maintained in all material
respects.  Our audit included obtaining an understanding of internal
control over financial reporting, assessing the risk that a material weakness
exists, testing and evaluating the design and operating effectiveness of
internal control based on the assessed risk, and performing such other
procedures as we considered necessary in the circumstances.  We
believe that our audit provides a reasonable basis for our opinion.    

A
company's internal control over financial reporting is a process designed by, or
under the supervision of, the company's principal executive and principal
financial officers, or persons performing similar functions, and effected by the
company's board of directors, management, and other personnel to provide
reasonable assurance regarding the reliability of financial reporting and the
preparation of financial statements for external purposes in accordance with
generally accepted accounting principles.  A company's internal
control over financial reporting includes those policies and procedures that (1)
pertain to the maintenance of records that, in reasonable detail, accurately and
fairly reflect the transactions and dispositions of the assets of the company;
(2) provide reasonable assurance that transactions are recorded as necessary to
permit preparation of financial statements in accordance with generally accepted
accounting principles, and that receipts and expenditures of the company are
being made only in accordance with authorizations of management and directors of
the company; and (3) provide reasonable assurance regarding prevention or timely
detection of unauthorized acquisition, use, or disposition of the company's
assets that could have a material effect on the financial
statements. 

Because
of the inherent limitations of internal control over financial reporting,
including the possibility of collusion or improper management override of
controls, material misstatements due to error or fraud may not be prevented or
detected on a timely basis.  Also, projections of any evaluation of
the effectiveness of the internal control over financial reporting to future
periods are subject to the risk that the controls may become inadequate because
of changes in conditions, or that the degree of compliance with the policies or
procedures may deteriorate. 

In our
opinion, the Company maintained, in all material respects, effective internal
control over financial reporting as of February 1, 2008, based on the criteria
established in  Internal
Control   Integrated Framework   issued by the Committee of
Sponsoring Organizations of the Treadway Commission.  

We have
also audited, in accordance with the standards of the Public Company Accounting
Oversight Board (United States), the consolidated financial statements as of and
for the fiscal year ended February 1, 2008 of the Company and our report dated
April 1, 2008 expressed an unqualified opinion on those financial
statements. 

/s/ Deloitte   Touche
LLP

Charlotte,
North Carolina 

      April 1,
2008 

20 

Table of Contents 

See
accompanying notes to the consolidated financial statements. 

21 

Table of Contents 

See
accompanying notes to the consolidated financial statements. 

22 

Table of Contents 

See
accompanying notes to the consolidated financial statements. 

23 

Table of Contents 

See
accompanying notes to the consolidated financial statements. 

24 

Table of Contents 

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS  

       YEARS ENDED FEBRUARY 1, 2008, FEBRUARY 2, 2007 AND FEBRUARY 3,
2006  

NOTE
1 - Summary of Significant Accounting Policies: 

Lowe s
Companies, Inc. and subsidiaries (the Company) is the world's second-largest
home improvement retailer and operated 1,534 stores in the United States and
Canada at February 1, 2008.  Below are those accounting policies
considered by the Company to be significant. 

Fiscal Year -  The Company s
fiscal year ends on the Friday nearest the end of January.  The fiscal
years ended February 1, 2008 and February 2, 2007 contained 52
weeks.  The fiscal year ended February 3, 2006 contained 53
weeks.  All references herein for the years 2007, 2006 and 2005
represent the fiscal years ended February 1, 2008, February 2, 2007 and February
3, 2006, respectively. 

Principles of Consolidation  -
The consolidated financial statements include the accounts of the Company and
its wholly-owned or controlled operating subsidiaries. All material intercompany
accounts and transactions have been eliminated. 

Use of Estimates  - The
preparation of the Company s financial statements in accordance with accounting
principles generally accepted in the United States of America requires
management to make estimates that affect the reported amounts of assets,
liabilities, sales and expenses, and related disclosures of contingent assets
and liabilities.  The Company bases these estimates on historical
results and various other assumptions believed to be reasonable, all of which
form the basis for making estimates concerning the carrying values of assets and
liabilities that are not readily available from other sources.  Actual
results may differ from these estimates. 

Cash and Cash Equivalents  -
Cash and cash equivalents include cash on hand, demand deposits and short-term
investments with original maturities of three months or less when
purchased.  The majority of payments due from financial institutions
for the settlement of credit card and debit card transactions process within two
business days and are, therefore, classified as cash and cash
equivalents. 

Investments  - The Company has
a cash management program which provides for the investment of cash balances not
expected to be used in current operations in financial instruments that have
maturities of up to 10 years. Variable-rate demand notes, which have stated
maturity dates in excess of 10 years, meet this maturity requirement of the cash
management program because the maturity date of these investments is determined
based on the interest rate reset date or par value put date for the purpose of
applying this criteria. 

Investments,
exclusive of cash equivalents, with a stated maturity date of one year or less
from the balance sheet date or that are expected to be used in current
operations, are classified as short-term investments. All other investments are
classified as long-term. As of February 1, 2008, investments consisted primarily
of money market funds, certificates of deposit, municipal obligations and mutual
funds.  Restricted balances pledged as collateral for letters of
credit for the Company s extended warranty program and for a portion of the
Company s casualty insurance and installed sales program liabilities are also
classified as investments. 

The
Company has classified all investment securities as available-for-sale, and they
are carried at fair market value. Unrealized gains and losses on such securities
are included in accumulated other comprehensive income in shareholders'
equity. 

Merchandise Inventory  -
Inventory is stated at the lower of cost or market using the first-in, first-out
method of inventory accounting. The cost of inventory also includes certain
costs associated with the preparation of inventory for resale and distribution
center costs, net of vendor funds. 

The
Company records an inventory reserve for the loss associated with selling
inventories below cost.  This reserve is based on management s current
knowledge with respect to inventory levels, sales trends and historical
experience. Management does not believe the Company s merchandise inventories
are subject to significant risk of obsolescence in 

25 

the near
term, and management has the ability to adjust purchasing practices based on
anticipated sales trends and general economic conditions. However, changes in
consumer purchasing patterns could result in the need for additional
reserves.  The Company also records an inventory reserve for the
estimated shrinkage between physical inventories.  This reserve is
based primarily on actual shrink results from previous physical
inventories.  Changes in the estimated shrink reserve may be necessary
based on the results of physical inventories. Management believes it has
sufficient current and historical knowledge to record reasonable estimates for
both of these inventory reserves. 

Derivative   Financial Instruments  -
The Company occasionally utilizes derivative financial instruments to manage
certain business risks.  However, the amounts were not material to the
Company s consolidated financial statements in any of the years
presented.  The Company does not use derivative financial instruments
for trading purposes. 

Credit Programs  - The majority
of the Company s accounts receivable arises from sales of goods and services to
Commercial Business Customers. In May 2004, the Company entered into an
agreement with General Electric Company and its subsidiaries (GE) to sell its
then-existing portfolio of commercial business accounts receivable to
GE.  During the term of the agreement, which ends on December 31,
2016, unless terminated sooner by the parties, GE also   purchases
at face value new commercial business accounts receivable originated by the
Company and services these accounts.  The Company accounts for these
transfers as sales of accounts receivable.  When the Company sells its
commercial business accounts receivable, it retains certain interests in those
receivables, including the funding of a loss reserve and its obligation related
to GE s ongoing servicing of the receivables sold.  Any gain or loss
on the sale is determined based on the previous carrying amounts of the
transferred assets allocated at fair value between the receivables sold and the
interests retained. Fair value is based on the present value of expected future
cash flows, taking into account the key assumptions of anticipated credit
losses, payment rates, late fee rates, GE s servicing costs and the discount
rate commensurate with the uncertainty involved.  Due to the
short-term nature of the receivables sold, changes to the key assumptions would
not materially impact the recorded gain or loss on the sales of receivables or
the fair value of the retained interests in the receivables. 

Total
commercial business accounts receivable sold to GE were $1.8 billion in both
2007 and 2006, and $1.7 billion in 2005.  During 2007, 2006 and 2005,
the Company recognized losses of $34 million, $35 million and $41 million,
respectively, on these sales as selling, general and administrative (SG A)
expense, which primarily relates to the fair value of the obligations incurred
related to servicing costs that are remitted to GE monthly.  At
February 1, 2008 and February 2, 2007, the fair value of the retained interests
was insignificant and was determined based on the present value of expected
future cash flows. 

Sales
generated through the Company s proprietary credit cards are not reflected in
receivables.  Under an agreement with GE, credit is extended directly
to customers by GE.  All credit program-related services are performed
and controlled directly by GE.  The Company has the option, but no
obligation, to purchase the receivables at the end of the agreement in December
2016.  Tender costs, including amounts associated with accepting the
Company s proprietary credit cards, are recorded in SG A in the consolidated
financial statements. 

The total
portfolio of receivables held by GE, including both receivables originated by GE
from the Company s private label credit cards and commercial business accounts
receivable originated by the Company and sold to GE, approximated $6.6 billion
at February 1, 2008, and $6.0 billion at February 2, 2007. 

Property and Depreciation  -
Property is recorded at cost. Costs associated with major additions are
capitalized and depreciated. Capital assets are expected to yield future
benefits and have useful lives which exceed one year.  The total cost
of a capital asset generally includes all applicable sales taxes, delivery
costs, installation costs and other appropriate costs incurred by the Company in
the case of self-constructed assets.  Upon disposal, the cost of
properties and related accumulated depreciation are removed from the accounts,
with gains and losses reflected in SG A expense in the consolidated
statements of earnings. 

Depreciation
is provided over the estimated useful lives of the depreciable assets. Assets
are depreciated using the straight-line method. Leasehold improvements are
depreciated over the shorter of their estimated useful lives or the term of the
related lease, which may include one or more option renewal periods where
failure to exercise such options 

      would
result in an economic penalty in such amount that renewal appears, at the
inception of the lease, to be reasonably assured.  During the term of
a lease, if a substantial additional investment is made in a leased location,
the 

26 

Company
reevaluates its definition of lease term to determine whether the investment,
together with any penalties related to non-renewal, would constitute an economic
penalty in such amount that renewal appears, at the time of the reevaluation, to
be reasonably assured. 

Long-Lived Asset Impairment/Exit
Activities -  The carrying amounts of long-lived assets are reviewed
whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying amount
may not be recoverable. 

For
long-lived assets held for use, a potential impairment has occurred if projected
future undiscounted cash flows expected to result from the use and eventual
disposition of the assets are less than the carrying value of the
assets.  An impairment loss is recognized when the carrying amount of
the long-lived asset is not recoverable and exceeds its fair
value.  The Company estimates fair value based on projected future
discounted cash flows. 

For
long-lived assets to be abandoned, the Company considers the asset to be
disposed of when it ceases to be used.  Until it ceases to be used,
the Company continues to classify the assets as held for use and tests for
potential impairment accordingly.  If the Company commits to a plan to
abandon a long-lived asset before the end of its previously estimated useful
life, depreciation estimates are revised. 

For
long-lived assets held for sale, an impairment charge is recorded if the
carrying amount of the asset exceeds its fair value less cost to
sell.  Fair value is based on a market appraisal or a valuation
technique that considers various factors, including local market
conditions.  A long-lived asset is not depreciated while it is
classified as held for sale. 

The net
carrying value for relocated stores, closed stores and other excess properties
that are expected to be sold within the next 12 months are classified as held
for sale and included in other current assets in the consolidated balance
sheets.  Assets held for sale totaled $28 million at February 1,
2008.  Assets held for sale at February 2, 2007 were not
significant.  The net carrying value for relocated stores, closed
stores and other excess properties that do not meet the held for sale criteria
are included in other assets (non-current) in the consolidated balance sheets
and totaled $91 million and $113 million at February 1, 2008 and February 2,
2007, respectively. 

When
operating leased locations are closed, a liability is recognized for the fair
value of future contractual obligations, including property taxes, utilities and
common area maintenance, net of estimated sublease income.  The
liability, which is included in other current liabilities in the consolidated
balance sheets, was $11 million and $19 million at February 1, 2008 and February
2, 2007, respectively. 

The
charge for impairment is included in SG A expense and totaled $28 million,
$5 million and $16 million in 2007, 2006 and 2005, respectively. 

Leases  - For lease agreements
that provide for escalating rent payments or free-rent occupancy periods, the
Company recognizes rent expense on a straight-line basis over the non-cancelable
lease term and option renewal periods where failure to exercise such options
would result in an economic penalty in such amount that renewal appears, at the
inception of the lease, to be reasonably assured.  The lease term
commences on the date that that Company takes possession of or controls the
physical use of the property.  Deferred rent is included in other
long-term liabilities in the consolidated balance sheets. 

Assets
under capital lease are amortized in accordance with the Company's normal
depreciation policy for owned assets or, if shorter, over the non-cancelable
lease term and any option renewal period where failure to exercise such option
would result in an economic penalty in such amount that renewal appears, at the
inception of the lease, to be reasonably assured.  The amortization of
the assets is included in depreciation expense in the consolidated financial
statements.  During the term of a lease, if a substantial additional
investment is made in a leased location, the Company reevaluates its definition
of lease term. 

27 

Accounts Payable -  In June
2007, the Company entered into a customer-managed services agreement with a
third party to provide an accounts payable tracking system which facilitates
participating suppliers  ability to finance payment obligations from the Company
with designated third-party financial institutions.  Participating
suppliers may, at their sole discretion, make offers to finance one or more
payment obligations of the Company prior to their scheduled due dates at a
discounted price to participating financial institutions.  The Company s
goal in entering into this arrangement is to capture overall supply chain
savings, in the form of pricing, payment terms or vendor funding, created by
facilitating suppliers  ability to finance payment obligations at more favorable
discount rates, while providing them with greater working capital
flexibility. 

The
Company s obligations to its suppliers, including amounts due and scheduled
payment dates, are not impacted by suppliers  decisions to finance amounts under
this arrangement.  However, the Company s right to offset balances due from
suppliers against payment obligations is restricted by this arrangement for
those payment obligations that have been financed by suppliers.  As of
February 1, 2008, the Company had placed $77 million of payment obligations on
the accounts payable tracking system, and participating suppliers had financed
$48 million of those payment obligations to participating financial
institutions. 

Self-Insurance  - The Company
is self-insured for certain losses relating to workers  compensation,
automobile, property, and general and product liability claims.  The
Company has stop-loss coverage to limit the exposure arising from these
claims.  The Company is also self-insured for certain losses relating
to extended warranty and medical and dental claims.  Self-insurance
claims filed and claims incurred but not reported are accrued based upon
management s estimates of the discounted ultimate cost for uninsured claims
incurred using actuarial assumptions followed in the insurance industry and
historical experience.  Although management believes it has the
ability to reasonably estimate losses related to claims, it is possible that
actual results could differ from recorded self-insurance
liabilities. 

Income Taxes  - The
Company establishes deferred income tax assets and liabilities for temporary
differences between the tax and financial accounting bases of assets and
liabilities.  The tax effects of such differences are reflected in the
balance sheet at the enacted tax rates expected to be in effect when the
differences reverse.  A valuation allowance is recorded to reduce the
carrying amount of deferred tax assets if it is more likely than not that all or
a portion of the asset will not be realized.  The tax balances and
income tax expense recognized by the Company are based on management s
interpretation of the tax statutes of multiple jurisdictions. 

The
Company establishes a reserve for tax positions for which there is uncertainty
as to whether or not the position will be ultimately sustained.  The
Company includes interest related to tax issues as part of net interest in the
consolidated financial statements.  The Company records any applicable
penalties related to tax issues within the income tax provision. 

Revenue Recognition -  The
Company recognizes revenues, net of sales tax, when sales transactions occur and
customers take possession of the merchandise. A provision for anticipated
merchandise returns is provided through a reduction of sales and cost of sales
in the period that the related sales are recorded.  Revenues from
product installation services are recognized when the installation is
completed.  Deferred revenues associated with amounts received for
which customers have not yet taken possession of merchandise or for which
installation has not yet been completed were $332 million and $364 million at
February 1, 2008, and February 2, 2007, respectively. 

Revenues
from stored value cards, which include gift cards and returned merchandise
credits, are deferred and recognized when the cards are redeemed.  The
liability associated with outstanding stored value cards was $385 million and
$367 million at February 1, 2008, and February 2, 2007, respectively, and these
amounts are included in deferred revenue in the accompanying consolidated
balance sheets.   The Company recognizes
income from unredeemed stored value cards at the point at which redemption
becomes remote.  The Company s stored value cards have no expiration date
or dormancy fees.  Therefore, to determine when redemption is remote,
the Company analyzes an aging of the unredeemed cards based on the date of last
stored value card use.   

Extended Warranties -  Lowe s
sells separately-priced extended warranty contracts under a Lowe s-branded
program for which the Company is ultimately self-insured.  The Company
recognizes revenue from extended warranty sales on a straight-line basis over
the respective contract term.  Extended warranty contract terms
primarily range from one to four years from the date of purchase or the end of
the manufacturer s warranty, as applicable.  The
Company s 

28 

extended
warranty deferred revenue is included in other liabilities (non-current) in the
accompanying consolidated balance sheets.  Changes in deferred revenue
for extended warranty contracts are summarized as follows: 

Incremental
direct acquisition costs associated with the sale of extended warranties are
also deferred and recognized as expense on a straight-line basis over the
respective contract term. Deferred costs associated with extended warranty
contracts were $91 million and $81 million at February 1, 2008 and February 2,
2007, respectively.  The Company s extended warranty deferred costs
are included in other assets (non-current) in the accompanying consolidated
balance sheets.  All other costs, such as costs of services performed
under the contract, general and administrative expenses and advertising expenses
are expensed as incurred. 

The
liability for extended warranty claims incurred is included in self-insurance
liabilities in the accompanying consolidated balance sheets.  Changes
in the liability for extended warranty claims are summarized as
follows: 

Cost of Sales and Selling, General
and Administrative Expenses -  The following lists the primary costs
classified in each major expense category: 

Cost of
      Sales  

Selling, General and
      Administrative   

Total
      cost of products sold, including: 

                  -      Purchase
      costs, net of vendor funds; 

                  -      Freight
      expenses associated with moving merchandise inventories 

from vendors to retail
      stores; 

                  -      Costs
      associated with operating the Company s distribution  

                          network,
      including payroll and benefit costs and occupancy
costs;  

                           Costs
      of installation services provided; 

                           Costs
      associated with delivery of products directly from vendors to customers

by third
      parties; 

                           Costs
      associated with inventory shrinkage and obsolescence. 

Payroll
      and benefit costs for retail and corporate employees; 

                         Occupancy
      costs of retail and corporate facilities; 

                         Advertising; 

                         Costs
      associated with delivery of products from stores to
customers; 

                         Third-party,
      in-store service costs; 

                         Tender
      costs, including bank charges, costs associated with credit card

interchange fees,
      and amounts associated with accepting the Company's  

                           proprietary credit
      cards; 

                         Costs
      associated with self-insured plans, and premium costs for
      stop-loss 

                           coverage and
      fully insured plans; 

                         Long-lived
      asset impairment charges and gains/losses on disposal of
      assets; 

                         Other
      administrative costs, such as supplies, and travel and
      entertainment. 

29 

Vendor Funds  - The Company
receives funds from vendors in the normal course of business principally as a
result of purchase volumes, sales, early payments or promotions of vendors 
products.  Based on the provisions of the vendor agreements in place,
management develops accrual rates by estimating the point at which the Company
will have completed its performance under the agreement and the amount agreed
upon will be earned.  Due to the complexity and diversity of the
individual vendor agreements, the Company performs analyses and reviews
historical trends throughout the year to ensure the amounts earned are
appropriately recorded.  As a part of these analyses, the Company
validates its accrual rates based on actual purchase trends and applies those
rates to actual purchase volumes to determine the amount of funds accrued by the
Company and receivable from the vendor. Amounts accrued throughout the year
could be impacted if actual purchase volumes differ from projected annual
purchase volumes, especially in the case of programs that provide for increased
funding when graduated purchase volumes are met. 

Vendor
funds are treated as a reduction of inventory cost, unless they represent a
reimbursement of specific, incremental and identifiable costs incurred by the
customer to sell the vendor s product. Substantially all of the vendor funds
that the Company receives do not meet the specific, incremental and identifiable
criteria. Therefore, the Company treats the majority of these funds as a
reduction in the cost of inventory as the amounts are accrued, and recognizes
these funds as a reduction of cost of sales when the inventory is
sold. 
 
       Advertising  - Costs associated
with advertising are charged to expense as incurred.  Advertising
expenses were $788 million, $873 million and $812 million in 2007, 2006 and
2005, respectively.  Cooperative advertising vendor funds are recorded
as a reduction of these expenses with the net amount included in SG A
expense.  Cooperative advertising vendor funds were $5 million in 2007
but insignificant in both 2006 and 2005. 

Shipping and Handling Costs  -
The Company includes shipping and handling costs relating to the delivery of
products directly from vendors to customers by third parties in cost of
sales.  Shipping and handling costs, which include salaries and
vehicle operations expenses relating to the delivery of products from stores to
customers, are classified as SG A expense.  Shipping and handling
costs included in SG A expense were $307 million, $310 million and $312
million in 2007, 2006 and 2005, respectively. 

Store Opening Costs  - Costs of
opening new or relocated retail stores, which include payroll and supply costs
incurred prior to store opening and grand opening advertising costs, are charged
to operations as incurred. 

Comprehensive Income  - The
Company reports comprehensive income in its consolidated statements of
shareholders  equity.  Comprehensive income represents changes in
shareholders' equity from non-owner sources and is comprised primarily of net
earnings plus or minus unrealized gains or losses on available-for-sale
securities, as well as foreign currency translation
adjustments.  Unrealized gains on available-for-sale securities
classified in accumulated other comprehensive income on the accompanying
consolidated balance sheets were $2 million at both February 1, 2008 and
February 2, 2007.  Foreign currency translation gains classified in
accumulated other comprehensive income on the accompanying consolidated balance
sheets were $6 million at February 1, 2008, and foreign currency translation
losses were $1 million at February 2, 2007.  The reclassification
adjustments for gains/losses included in net earnings for 2007, 2006 and 2005
were insignificant. 

Recent Accounting Pronouncements
  In September 2006, the Financial Accounting Standards Board (FASB)
issued Statement of Financial Accounting Standards (SFAS) No. 157,  Fair Value
Measurements .  SFAS No. 157 provides a single definition of fair
value, together with a framework for measuring it, and requires additional
disclosure about the use of fair value to measure assets and
liabilities.  SFAS No. 157 also emphasizes that fair value is a
market-based measurement, not an entity-specific measurement, and sets out a
fair value hierarchy with the highest priority being quoted prices in active
markets.  Under SFAS No. 157, fair value measurements are required to
be disclosed by level within that hierarchy.  SFAS No. 157 is
effective for fiscal years beginning after November 15, 2007, and interim
periods within those fiscal years.  However, FASB Staff Position (FSP)
No. FAS 157-2,  Effective Date of FASB Statement No. 157,  issued in February
2008, delays the effective date of SFAS No. 157 for all nonfinancial assets and
nonfinancial liabilities, except for items that are recognized or disclosed at
fair value in the financial statements on a recurring basis, to fiscal years
beginning after November 15, 2008, and interim periods within those fiscal
years.  The Company does not expect the adoption of SFAS No. 157 to
have a material impact on its consolidated financial statements. 

30 

In
February 2007, the FASB issued SFAS No. 159,  The Fair Value Option for
Financial Assets and Financial Liabilities.   SFAS No. 159 provides
entities with an option to measure many financial instruments and certain other
items at fair value, including available-for-sale securities previously
accounted for under SFAS No. 115,  Accounting for Certain Investments in Debt
and Equity Securities.   Under SFAS No. 159, unrealized gains and
losses on items for which the fair value option has been elected will be
reported in earnings at each subsequent reporting period.  SFAS No.
159 is effective for fiscal years beginning after November 15,
2007.  The Company does not expect the adoption of SFAS No. 159 to
have a material impact on its consolidated financial statements. 

In June
2007, the Emerging Issues Task Force (EITF) reached a consensus on Issue No.
06-11,  Accounting for Income Tax Benefits of Dividends on Share-Based Payment
Awards.   EITF 06-11 states that an entity should recognize a realized
tax benefit associated with dividends on nonvested equity shares, nonvested
equity share units and outstanding equity share options charged to retained
earnings as an increase in additional paid in capital.  The amount
recognized in additional paid in capital should be included in the pool of
excess tax benefits available to absorb potential future tax deficiencies on
share-based payment awards.  EITF 06-11 should be applied
prospectively to income tax benefits of dividends on equity-classified
share-based payment awards that are declared in fiscal years beginning after
December 15, 2007.  The Company does not expect the adoption of EITF
06-11 to have a material impact on its consolidated financial
statements. 

In
December 2007, the FASB issued SFAS No. 141(R),  Business Combinations  and SFAS
No. 160,  Noncontrolling Interests in Consolidated Financial Statements   an
amendment of ARB No. 51 .  SFAS No. 141(R) and SFAS No. 160
significantly change the accounting for and reporting of business combinations
and noncontrolling interests in consolidated financial
statements.  Under SFAS No. 141(R), more assets and liabilities will
be measured at fair value as of the acquisition date instead of the announcement
date.  Additionally, acquisition costs will be expensed as
incurred.  Under SFAS No. 160, noncontrolling interests will be
classified as a separate component of equity.  SFAS No. 141(R) and
SFAS No. 160 should be applied prospectively for fiscal years beginning on or
after December 15, 2008, with the exception of the presentation and disclosure
requirements of SFAS No. 160, which should be applied
retrospectively.  The Company does not expect the adoption of SFAS No.
141(R) and SFAS No. 160 to have a material impact on its consolidated financial
statements. 

Segment Information    The
Company s operating segments, representing the Company s home improvement retail
stores, are aggregated within one reportable segment based on the way the
Company manages its business.  The Company s home improvement retail
stores exhibit similar long-term economic characteristics, sell similar products
and services, use similar processes to sell those products and services, and
sell their products and services to similar classes of customers.  The
amount of long-lived assets and net sales outside the U.S. was not significant
for any of the periods presented. 

Reclassifications  - Certain
prior period amounts have been reclassified to conform to current
classifications. 

31 

NOTE
2 - Investments: 

The
Company s investment securities are classified as
available-for-sale.  The amortized costs, gross unrealized holding
 gains  and
losses, and fair values of the investments at February 1, 2008, and February 2,
2007, were as follows: 

The
proceeds from sales of available-for-sale securities were $1.2 billion, $412
million and $192 million for 2007, 2006 and 2005, respectively.  Gross
realized gains and losses on the sale of available-for-sale securities were not
significant for any of the periods presented.  The municipal
obligations classified as long-term at February 1, 2008, will mature in one to
32 years, based on stated maturity dates. 

Short-term
and long-term investments include restricted balances pledged as collateral for
letters of credit for the Company s extended warranty program and for a portion
of the Company s casualty insurance and installed sales program
liabilities.  Restricted balances included in short-term investments
were $167 million at February 1, 2008 and $248 million at February 2,
2007.  Restricted balances included in long-term investments were $172
million at February 1, 2008 and $32 million at February 2, 2007. 

32 

NOTE
3 - Property and Accumulated Depreciation: 

Property
is summarized by major class in the following table: 

Included
in net property are assets under capital lease of $523 million, less accumulated
depreciation of $294 million, at February 1, 2008, and $533 million, less
accumulated depreciation of $274 million, at February 2, 2007. 

NOTE
4 - Short-Term Borrowings and Lines of Credit: 

In June
2007, the Company entered into an Amended and Restated Credit Agreement (Amended
Facility) to modify the senior credit facility by extending the maturity date to
June 2012 and providing for borrowings of up to $1.75 billion.  The
Amended Facility supports the Company s commercial paper and revolving credit
programs. Borrowings made are unsecured and are priced at a fixed rate based
upon market conditions at the time of funding, in accordance with the terms of
the Amended Facility. The Amended Facility contains certain restrictive
covenants, which include maintenance of a debt leverage ratio as defined by the
Amended Facility. The Company was in compliance with those covenants at February
1, 2008.  Seventeen banking institutions are participating in the
Amended Facility.  As of February 1, 2008, there was $1.0 billion
outstanding under the commercial paper program.  The weighted-average
interest rate on the outstanding commercial paper was 3.92%. As of February 2,
2007, there was $23 million of short-term borrowings outstanding under the
senior credit facility, but no outstanding borrowings under the commercial paper
program. The interest rate on the short-term borrowing was 5.41%. 

In
October 2007, the Company established a Canadian dollar (C$) denominated credit
facility in the amount of C$50 million, which provides revolving credit support
for the Company s Canadian operations.  This uncommitted facility
provides the Company with the ability to make unsecured borrowings, which are
priced at a fixed rate based upon market conditions at the time of funding in
accordance with the terms of the credit facility.  As of February 1,
2008, there were no borrowings outstanding under the credit
facility. 
 
      In
January 2008, the Company entered into a C$ denominated credit agreement in the
amount of C$200 million for the purpose of funding the build out of retail
stores in Canada and for working capital and other general corporate
purposes.  Borrowings made are unsecured and are priced at a fixed
rate based upon market conditions at the time of funding in accordance with the
terms of the credit agreement.  The credit agreement contains certain
restrictive covenants, which include maintenance of a debt leverage ratio as
defined by the credit agreement.  The Company was in compliance with
those covenants at February 1, 2008.  Three banking institutions are
participating in the credit agreement.  As of February 1, 2008, there
was C$60 million or the equivalent of $60 million outstanding under the credit
facility.  The interest rate on the short-term borrowing was
5.75%. 

Five
banks have extended lines of credit aggregating $789 million for the purpose of
issuing documentary letters of credit and standby letters of credit. These lines
do not have termination dates and are reviewed periodically. Commitment fees
ranging from .225% to .50% per annum are paid on the standby letters of credit
amounts outstanding. Outstanding letters of credit totaled $299 million as of
February 1, 2008, and $346 million as of February 2, 2007. 

33 

NOTE
5 - Long-Term Debt: 

1  

Real
      properties with an aggregate book value of $47 million were pledged as
      collateral at February 1, 2008, for secured
  debt. 

2  

Approximately 46% of these
      medium-term notes may be put at the option of the holder on the twentieth
      anniversary of the issue at par value.  The medium-term notes
      were issued in 1997.  None of these notes are currently
      putable.  

Debt
maturities, exclusive of unamortized original issue discounts, capital leases
and other, for the next five years and thereafter are as follows: 2008, $10
million; 2009, $10 million; 2010, $501 million; 2011, $1 million; 2012, $552
million; thereafter, $4.3 billion. 

The
Company s debentures, notes, medium-term notes, senior notes and convertible
notes contain certain restrictive covenants.  The Company was in
compliance with all covenants in these agreements at February 1,
2008. 

Senior
Notes 
 
      In
September 2007, the Company issued $1.3 billion of unsecured senior notes,
comprised of three tranches: $550 million of 5.60% senior notes maturing in
September 2012, $250 million of 6.10% senior notes maturing in September 2017
and $500 million of 6.65% senior notes maturing in September
2037.  The 5.60%, 6.10% and 6.65% senior notes were issued at
discounts of approximately $2.7 million, $1.3 million and $6.3 million,
respectively.  Interest on the senior notes is payable semiannually in
arrears in March and September of each year until maturity, beginning in March
2008.  The discount associated with the issuance is included in
long-term debt and is being amortized over the respective terms of the senior
notes.  The net proceeds of approximately $1.3 billion were used for
general corporate purposes, including capital expenditures and working capital
needs, and for repurchases of shares of the Company s common stock. 

In
October 2006, the Company issued $1.0 billion of unsecured senior notes,
comprised of two tranches: $550 million of 5.40% senior notes maturing in
October 2016 and $450 million of 5.80% senior notes maturing in October
2036.  The 5.40% senior notes and the 5.80% senior notes were each
issued at a discount of approximately $4.4 million.  Interest on the
senior notes is payable semiannually in arrears in April and October of each
year until maturity, beginning in April 2007.  The discount associated
with the issuance is included in long-term debt and is being amortized over the
respective terms of the senior notes.  The net proceeds of
approximately $991 million were used for  

34 

general
corporate purposes, including capital expenditures and working capital needs,
and for repurchases of common stock. 

In
October 2005, the Company issued $1.0 billion of unsecured senior notes
comprised of two $500 million tranches maturing in October 2015 and October
2035, respectively.  The first $500 million tranche of 5.0% senior
notes was sold at a discount of $4 million.  The second $500 million
tranche of 5.5% senior notes was sold at a discount of $8
million.  Interest on the senior notes is payable semiannually in
arrears in April and October of each year until maturity, beginning in April
2006.  The discount associated with the issuance is included in
long-term debt and is being amortized over the respective terms of the senior
notes.  The net proceeds of approximately $988 million were used for
the repayment of $600 million in outstanding notes due December 2005, for
general corporate purposes, including capital expenditures and working capital
needs, and for repurchases of common stock. 

The
senior notes issued in 2007, 2006 and 2005 may be redeemed by the Company at any
time, in whole or in part, at a redemption price plus accrued interest to the
date of redemption. The redemption price is equal to the greater of (1) 100% of
the principal amount of the senior notes to be redeemed, or (2) the sum of the
present values of the remaining scheduled payments of principal and interest
thereon, discounted to the date of redemption on a semiannual basis at a
specified rate. The indenture under which the 2007 senior notes were issued also
contains a provision that allows the holders of the notes to require the Company
to repurchase all or any part of their notes if a change in control triggering
event occurs.  If elected under the change in control provisions, the
repurchase of the notes will occur at a purchase price of 101% of the principal
amount, plus accrued and unpaid interest, if any, on such notes to the date of
purchase.    The indenture governing the senior notes does
not limit the aggregate principal amount of debt securities that the Company may
issue, nor is the Company required to maintain financial ratios or specified
levels of net worth or liquidity. However, the indenture contains various
restrictive covenants, none of which is expected to impact the Company s
liquidity or capital resources. 

Upon the
issuance of each of the series of senior notes previously described, the Company
evaluated the optionality features embedded in the notes and concluded that
these features do not require bifurcation from the host contracts and separate
accounting as derivative instruments. 

Convertible
Notes 

The
Company has $578.7 million aggregate principal, $497.1 million aggregate
carrying amount, of senior convertible notes issued in October 2001 at an issue
price of $861.03 per note.  Cash interest payments on the notes ceased
in October 2006.  In October 2021 when the notes mature, a holder will
receive $1,000 per note, representing a yield to maturity of approximately
1%.  Holders of the notes had the right to require the Company to
purchase all or a portion of their notes in October 2003 and October 2006, at a
price of $861.03 per note plus accrued cash interest, if any, and will have the
right in October 2011 to require the Company to purchase all or a portion of
their notes at a price of $905.06 per note.  The Company may choose to
pay the purchase price of the notes in cash or common stock or a combination of
cash and common stock.  Holders of an insignificant number of notes
exercised their right to require   the
Company to repurchase their notes during 2003 and 2006, all of which were
purchased in cash.  The Company may redeem for cash all or a portion
of the notes at any time, at a price equal to the sum of the issue price plus
accrued original issue discount on the redemption date. 

Holders
of the senior convertible notes may convert their notes into 34.424 shares of
the Company s common stock only if: the sale price of the Company s common stock
reaches specified thresholds, or the credit rating of the notes is below a
specified level, or the notes are called for redemption, or specified corporate
transactions representing a change in control have occurred.  The
conversion ratio of 34.424 shares per note is only adjusted based on normal
antidilution provisions designed to protect the value of the conversion
option. 

The
Company s closing share prices reached the specified threshold such that the
senior convertible notes became convertible at the option of each holder into
shares of common stock during specified quarters of 2006 and
2007.  Holders of an insignificant number of senior convertible notes
exercised their right to convert their notes into shares of the Company s common
stock during 2007 and 2006. The senior convertible notes will not be convertible
in the first quarter of 2008 because the Company s closing share prices did not
reach the specified threshold during the fourth quarter of 2007. 

35 

The
Company has $19.7 million aggregate principal, $13.8 million aggregate carrying
amount, of convertible notes issued in February 2001 at an issue price of
$608.41 per note.  Interest will not be paid on the notes prior to
maturity in February 2021, at which time the holders will receive $1,000 per
note, representing a yield to maturity of 2.5%.  Holders of the notes
had the right to require the Company to purchase all or a portion of their notes
in February 2004, at a price of $655.49 per note, and will have the right in
February 2011 to require the Company to purchase all or a portion of their notes
at a price of $780.01 per note.  The Company may choose to pay the
purchase price of the notes in cash or common stock, or a combination of cash
and common stock.  Holders of an insignificant number of notes
exercised their right to require the Company to purchase their notes during
2004, all of which were purchased in cash. 

Holders
of the convertible notes issued in February 2001 may convert their notes at any
time on or before the maturity date, unless the notes have been previously
purchased or redeemed, into 32.896 shares of the Company's common stock per
note.  The conversion ratio of 32.896 shares per note is only adjusted
based on normal antidilution provisions designed to protect the value of the
conversion option.  During 2007, holders of $18 million principal
amount, $13 million carrying amount, of the Company s convertible notes issued
in February 2001 exercised their right to convert their notes into 0.6 million
shares of the Company s common stock at the rate of 32.896 shares per
note.  During 2006, holders of $118 million principal amount, $80
million carrying amount, of the Company s convertible notes issued in February
2001 exercised their right to convert their notes into 3.9 million shares of the
Company s common stock.  

Upon the
issuance of each of the series of convertible notes previously described, the
Company evaluated the optionality features embedded in the notes and concluded
that these features do not require bifurcation from the host contracts and
separate accounting as derivative instruments. 

NOTE
6 - Financial Instruments: 

Cash and
cash equivalents, accounts receivable, short-term borrowings, accounts payable
and accrued liabilities are reflected in the financial statements at cost, which
approximates fair value due to their short-term nature.  Short- and
long-term investments classified as available-for-sale securities, which include
restricted balances, are reflected in the financial statements at fair
value.   Estimated fair values for long-term debt have been
determined using available market information.  For debt issues that
are not quoted on an exchange, interest rates that are currently available to
the Company for issuance of debt with similar terms and remaining maturities are
used to estimate fair value.  However, considerable judgment is
required in interpreting market data to develop the estimates of fair value.
Accordingly, the estimates presented herein are not necessarily indicative of
the amounts that the Company could realize in a current market exchange. The use
of different market assumptions and/or estimation methodologies may have a
material effect on the estimated fair value amounts. The fair value of the
Company's long-term debt, excluding capital leases and other, is as
follows: 

NOTE
7 - Shareholders' Equity: 

Authorized
shares of common stock were 5.6 billion ($.50 par value) at February 1, 2008 and
February 2, 2007. 

The
Company has 5.0 million ($5 par value) authorized shares of preferred stock,
none of which have been issued. The Board of Directors may issue the preferred
stock (without action by shareholders) in one or more series, having such voting
rights, dividend and liquidation preferences, and such conversion and other
rights as may be designated by the Board of Directors at the time of
issuance. 

36 

As of
February 3, 2006, the total remaining authorization under the share repurchase
program was $1.2 billion.  In August 2006 and May 2007, the Board of
Directors authorized up to an additional $2 billion and $3 billion in share
repurchases through 2008 and 2009, respectively.  This program is
implemented through purchases made from time to time either in the open market
or through private transactions.  Shares purchased under the share
repurchase program are retired and returned to authorized and unissued status.
During 2006, the Company repurchased 56.8 million shares at a total cost of $1.7
billion (of which $160 million was recorded as a reduction in retained earnings,
after capital in excess of par value was depleted).  During 2007, the
Company repurchased 76.4 million shares at a total cost of $2.3 billion (of
which $1.9 billion was recorded as a reduction in retained earnings, after
capital in excess of par value was depleted).  As of February 1, 2008,
the total remaining authorization under the share repurchase program was $2.2
billion. 

NOTE
8   Accounting for Share-Based Payment: 

Effective
February 4, 2006, the Company adopted the fair value recognition provisions of
SFAS No. 123(R),  Share-Based Payment,  using the
modified-prospective-transition method.  Prior to this, the Company
was applying the fair value recognition provisions of SFAS No. 123,  Accounting
for Stock Based Compensation.   For all grants, the amount of
share-based payment expense recognized has been adjusted for estimated
forfeitures of awards for which the requisite service is not expected to be
provided. Estimated forfeiture rates are developed based on the Company s
analysis of historical forfeiture data for homogeneous employee
groups. 

The
Company recognized share-based payment expense in SG A expense on the
consolidated statements of earnings totaling $99 million, $62 million and $76
million in 2007, 2006 and 2005, respectively.  The total income tax
benefit recognized was $32 million, $18 million and $19 million in 2007, 2006
and 2005, respectively. 

Total
unrecognized share-based payment expense for all share-based payment plans was
$92 million at February 1, 2008, of which $52 million will be recognized in
2008, $30 million in 2009 and $10 million thereafter.  This results in
these amounts being recognized over a weighted-average period of 1.1
years. 

As the
Company adopted the fair-value recognition provisions of SFAS No. 123
prospectively for all employee awards granted or modified after January 31,
2003, share-based payment expense included in the determination of net earnings
for the year ended February 3, 2006 is less than that which would have been
recognized if the fair-value-based method had been applied to all awards since
the original effective date of SFAS No. 123. The following table illustrates the
effect on net earnings and earnings per share in the period if the
fair-value-based method had been applied to all outstanding and unvested
awards. 

(In
      millions, except per share data) 

2005 

Net
      earnings as reported 

$  
             
                2,765 

Add:
      Stock-based compensation expense included in net earnings, net of related
      tax effects 

57 

Deduct: Total
      stock-based compensation expense determined under the fair-value-based
      method for all awards, net of related tax effects 

(59) 

Pro
      forma net earnings 

$  
             
                2,763 

Earnings
      per share: 

Basic
      - as reported 

$  
             
                1.78 

Basic
      - pro forma 

$  
             
                1.78 

Diluted - as reported 

$  
             
                1.73 

Diluted
      - pro forma 

$  
             
                1.73 

37 

Overview of Share-Based
Payment Plans  

The
Company has (a) four equity incentive plans, referred to as the  2006,   2001, 
 1997  and  1994  Incentive Plans, (b) one share-based plan for awards to
non-employee directors and (c) an employee stock purchase plan (ESPP) that
allows employees to purchase Company shares through payroll
deductions.  These plans contain a nondiscretionary antidilution
provision that is designed to equalize the value of an award as a result of an
equity restructuring.  Share-based awards in the form of incentive and
non-qualified stock options, performance accelerated restricted stock (PARS),
performance-based restricted stock, restricted stock and deferred stock units,
which represent nonvested stock, may be granted to key employees from the 2006
plan.  No new awards may be granted from the 2001, 1997 and 1994
plans. 

The
share-based plan for non-employee directors is referred to as the Amended and
Restated Directors  Stock Option and Deferred Stock Unit Plan (Directors 
Plan).  Under the Directors  Plan, each non-employee Director is
awarded a number of deferred stock units determined by dividing the annual award
amount by the fair market value of a share of the Company s common stock on the
award date and rounding up to the next 100 units.  The annual award
amount used to determine the number of deferred stock units granted to each
director was $115,000 in both 2007 and 2006,  and $85,000 in
2005. 

Share-based awards were
authorized for grant to key employees and non-employee directors for up to 169.0
million shares of common stock.  Stock options were authorized for up
to 129.2 million shares, while P ARS, performance-based restricted stock,
restricted stock and deferred stock units were authorized for up to 39.8 million
shares of common stock.  Up to 45.0 million shares were authorized
under the ESPP. 

At
February 1, 2008, there were 45.6 million shares remaining available for grant
under the 2006 and Directors  Plans, and 22.9  million  shares
available under the ESPP.   

General
terms and methods of valuation for the Company s share-based awards are as
follows :  

Stock
Options  

Stock
options generally have terms of seven years, with normally one-third of each
grant vesting each year for three years, and are assigned an exercise price
equal to the closing market price of a share of the Company s common stock on
the date of grant. 

The fair
value of each option grant is estimated on the date of grant using the
Black-Scholes option-pricing model.  When determining expected
volatility, the Company considers the historical performance of the Company s
stock, as well as implied volatility.  The risk-free interest rate is
based on the U.S. Treasury yield curve in effect at the time of grant, based on
the options  expected term.  The expected term of the options is based
on the Company s evaluation of option holders  exercise patterns and represents
the period of time that options are expected to remain
unexercised.  The Company uses historical data to estimate the timing
and amount of forfeitures.  These options are expensed on a
straight-line basis over the vesting period, which is considered to be the
requisite service period.  The assumptions used in the Black-Scholes
option-pricing model for options granted in the three years ended February 1,
2008, February 2, 2007 and February 3, 2006 were as follows: 

38 

The
weighted-average grant-date fair value per share of options granted was $8.18,
$8.86 and $7.81 in 2007, 2006 and 2005, respectively.  The total
intrinsic value of options exercised, representing the difference between the
exercise price and the market price on the date of exercise, was approximately
$42 million, $80 million and $175 million in 2007, 2006 and 2005,
respectively. 

Transactions
related to stock options issued under the 2006, 2001, 1997, 1994 and Directors 
plans for the year ended February 1, 2008 are summarized as
follows: 

(1)     Options
for which the exercise price exceeded the closing market price of a share of the
Company s common stock   at
February 1, 2008 are excluded from the calculation of aggregate intrinsic
value. 

       (2)   Includes
outstanding vested options as well as outstanding, nonvested options after a
forfeiture rate is applied.     

Performance Accelerated
Restricted Stock Awards  

PARS are
valued at the market price of a share of the Company s common stock on the date
of grant.  In general, these awards vest at the end of a five-year
service period from the date of grant, unless performance acceleration goals are
achieved, in which case, awards vest 50% at the end of three years or 100% at
the end of four years.  The performance acceleration goals are based
on targeted Company average return on beginning noncash assets, as defined in
the PARS agreement.  PARS are expensed on a straight-line basis over
the shorter of the explicit service period related to the service condition or
the implicit service period related to the performance conditions, based on the
probability of meeting the conditions.  The Company uses historical
data to estimate the timing and amount of forfeitures.  The
weighted-average grant-date fair value per share of PARS granted was $34.10 and
$29.24 in 2006 and 2005, respectively. No PARS were granted in
2007.  The total fair value of PARS vested was approximately $1
million in 2005.  No PARS vested in 2007 or 2006. 

Transactions
related to PARS issued under the 2006 and 2001 plans for the year ended February
1, 2008 are summarized as follows: 

39 

Performance-Based Restricted
Stock Awards  

Performance-based
restricted stock awards are valued at the market price of a share of the
Company s common stock on the date of grant. In general, these awards vest at
the end of a three-year service period from the date of grant only if the
performance goal specified in the performance-based restricted stock agreement
is achieved.  The performance goal is based on targeted Company
average return on noncash assets, as defined in the performance-based restricted
stock agreement.  These awards are expensed on a straight-line basis
over the requisite service period, based on the probability of achieving the
performance goal.  The Company uses historical data to estimate the
timing and amount of forfeitures.  The weighted-average grant-date
fair value per share of performance-based restricted stock awards granted was
$32.18 in 2007.  No performance-based restricted stock awards were
granted in 2006 or 2005.  No performance-based restricted stock awards
vested in 2007, 2006 or 2005. 

Transactions
related to performance-based restricted stock awards issued under the
2006 plan for the year ended February 1, 2008 are summarized as
follows: 

Restricted Stock
Awards  

Restricted
stock awards are valued at the market price of a share of the Company s common
stock on the date of grant.  In general, these awards vest at the end
of a three- to five-year period from the date of grant and are expensed on a
straight-line basis over that period, which is considered to be the requisite
service period.  The Company uses historical data to estimate the
timing and amount of forfeitures.  The weighted-average grant-date
fair value per share of restricted stock awards granted was $31.23, $27.34 and
$32.30 in 2007, 2006 and 2005, respectively. The total fair value of restricted
stock awards vested was approximately $17 million and $4 million in 2007 and
2005, respectively.  No restricted stock awards vested in
2006. 

Transactions
related to restricted stock awards issued under the 2006 and 2001 plans for the
year ended February 1, 2008 are summarized as follows: 

Deferred Stock
Units  

Deferred
stock units are valued at the market price of a share of the Company s common
stock on the date of grant.  For key employees, these awards generally
vest over three to five years and are expensed on a straight-line basis over
that period, which is considered to be the requisite service
period.  The Company uses historical data to estimate the timing and
amount of forfeitures.  For non-employee directors, these awards vest
immediately and are expensed on the grant date.  The weighted-average
grant-date fair value per share of deferred stock units granted was $32.13,
$31.02 and $28.58 in 2007, 2006 and 2005, respectively. The total fair value of
deferred stock units vested was approximately  

40 

$1
million, $5 million and $17 million in 2007, 2006 and 2005,
respectively.  There were 597,200 deferred stock units outstanding at
February 1, 2008. 

Transactions
related to deferred stock units issued under the 2001 and Directors  plans
for the year ended February 1, 2008 are summarized as follows: 

ESPP  

The
purchase price of the shares under the ESPP equals 85% of the closing price on
the date of purchase.  The Company s share-based payment expense is
equal to 15% of the closing price on the date of purchase.  The ESPP
is considered a liability award and is measured at fair value at each reporting
date, and the share-based payment expense is recognized over the six-month
offering period.  The Company issued 3,366,031 shares of common stock
pursuant to this plan during the year ended February 1, 2008. 
 
      NOTE
9 - Employee Retirement Plans: 

The
Company maintains a defined contribution retirement plan for its employees (the
401(k) Plan).  Employees are eligible to participate in the 401(k)
Plan 180 days after their original date of service.  Participants are
allowed to choose from a group of mutual funds in order to designate how both
employer and employee contributions are to be invested.  The Company's
common stock is also one of the investment options for contributions to the
401(k) Plan.  Company shares held on the participants  behalf by the
401(k) Plan  are  voted by the
participants.  The Company makes contributions to the 401(k) Plan each
payroll period, based upon a matching formula applied to employee contributions
(baseline match).  In 2005 and 2006, the Company also offered a
performance match to eligible 401(k) Plan participants, based on growth of
Company earnings before taxes for the fiscal year.  Effective May
2007, the Company increased the amount of the baseline match to a maximum of
4.25% (up from 2.25%) but will no longer offer a performance
match.  Plan participants are eligible to receive the baseline match
after completing 180 days of continuous service.  The Company s
contributions to the 401(k) Plan vest immediately in the participant accounts.
Once participants reach age 59  , they may elect to withdraw their entire 401(k)
Plan balance.  This is a one-time, in-service distribution
option.  Participants may also withdraw contributions and rollover
contributions for reasons of hardship, while still actively
employed.  In addition, participants with 20 or more years of service
who have an Employee Stock Ownership Plan carryforward account balance within
the 401(k) Plan can elect to receive a one-time, in-service distribution of 50%
of this account balance. 

The
Company maintains a Benefit Restoration Plan (BRP) to supplement benefits
provided under the 401(k) Plan to 401(k) Plan participants whose benefits are
restricted as a result of certain provisions of the Internal Revenue Code of
1986. This plan provides for employer contributions in the form of a baseline
match.  In 2005 and 2006, it also provided for a performance
match. 

The
Company maintains a non-qualified deferred compensation program called the
Lowe s Cash Deferral Plan. This plan is designed to permit certain employees to
defer receipt of portions of their compensation, thereby delaying taxation on
the deferral amount and on subsequent earnings until the balance is
distributed.  This plan does not provide for employer
contributions. 

The
Company recognized SG A expense associated with employee retirement plans of
$91 million, $42 million and $136 million in 2007, 2006 and 2005,
respectively. 

41 

NOTE 10 - Income
Taxes:  

The
following is a reconciliation of the effective tax rate to the federal statutory
tax rate: 

The
components of the income tax provision are as follows: 

The tax effect of
cumulative temporary differences that gave rise to the deferred tax assets and
liabilities was as follows: 

The Company
operates as a branch in various foreign jurisdictions and incurred net operating
losses of $63 million and $12 million as of February 1, 2008 and February 2,
2007, respectively.  The net operating losses are subject to
expiration in 2017 through 2027.  Deferred tax assets have been
established for these net operating losses in the accompanying consolidated
balance sheets.  Given the uncertainty regarding the realization of
the foreign net deferred tax assets, the Company recorded valuation
 allowances of $22 million and $4 million as of February 1, 2008 and
February 2, 2007, respectively.  

42 

The
Company adopted FASB Interpretation (FIN) No. 48,   Accounting for Uncertainty in Income
Taxes,   effective February 3, 2007.  The cumulative effect of
applying this interpretation was recorded as a decrease of $8 million to
  retained
earnings, a decrease of $158 million to the net deferred tax liability, an
increase of $146 million to the reserve for unrecognized tax benefits, an
increase of $13 million to accrued interest and an increase of $7 million to
accrued penalties. 

The
Company had approximately $186 million of total unrecognized tax benefits, $7
million of penalties and $21 million of interest as of February 3,
2007.  A reconciliation of the beginning and ending balances of
unrecognized tax benefits is as follows: 

(In
      millions) 

Balance
      at  February  3,
      2007 

$  
              186  

Additions
      for tax positions of prior years 

11  

Reductions
      for tax positions of prior years 

(81  
              )  

Additions
      based on tax positions related to the current year 

23  

Reductions
      based on tax positions related to the current year 

-  

Settlements 

(1  
              )  

Reductions
      due to a lapse in applicable statute of limitations 

-  

Balance
      at February 1, 2008 

$  
              138  

The
amounts of unrecognized tax benefits that, if recognized, would impact the
effective tax rate were $46 million and $34 million as of February 1, 2008 and
February 3, 2007, respectively. 

The
Company includes interest related to tax issues as part of net interest in the
consolidated financial statements.  The Company records any applicable
penalties related to tax issues within the income tax provision.  The
Company recognized $3 million of interest expense and $5 million of penalties
related to uncertain tax positions in the consolidated statement of earnings in
2007.  The Company had $24 million accrued for interest and $12
million accrued for penalties as of February 1, 2008. 

The
Company does not expect any changes in unrecognized tax benefits over the next
12 months to have a significant impact on the results of operations, the
financial position or the cash flows of the Company. 

During
2006, the Company reached a settlement with the Internal Revenue Service (IRS)
covering the tax years 2002 and 2003.  Under the settlement agreement,
the Company paid the IRS $17 million, plus $3 million in
interest.  The Company is subject to examination in the U.S. federal
tax jurisdiction for fiscal years 2004 forward.  The Company is subject to
examination in major state tax jurisdictions for the fiscal years 2002 forward.
 We believe appropriate provisions for all outstanding issues have been
made for all jurisdictions and all open years. 

Prior to
the adoption of FIN No. 48, the Company accrued for probable liabilities
resulting from potential assessments by taxing authorities.  The
Company recorded these tax contingencies to address the potential exposures that
could result from the diverse interpretations of tax statutes, rules and
regulations.  The amounts accrued were not material to the Company s
consolidated financial statements in 2006. 

43 

NOTE
11 - Earnings Per Share: 

Basic
earnings per share (EPS) excludes dilution and is computed by dividing the
applicable net earnings by the weighted-average number of common shares
outstanding for the period.  Diluted earnings per share is calculated
based on the weighted-average shares of common stock as adjusted for the
potential dilutive effect of share-based awards and convertible notes as of the
balance sheet date.  The following table reconciles EPS for 2007, 2006
and 2005: 

Stock
options to purchase 7.8 million, 6.8 million and 5.6 million shares of common
stock for 2007, 2006 and 2005, respectively, were excluded from the computation
of diluted earnings per share because their effect would have been
antidilutive. 

NOTE
12 - Leases: 

The
Company leases store facilities and land for certain store facilities under
agreements with original terms generally of 20 years.  For lease
agreements that provide for escalating rent payments or free-rent occupancy
periods, the Company recognizes rent expense on a straight-line basis over the
non-cancelable lease term and any option renewal period where failure to
exercise such option would result in an economic penalty in such amount that
renewal appears, at the inception of the lease, to be reasonably
assured.  The lease term commences on the date that the Company takes
possession of or controls the physical use of the property. The leases generally
contain provisions for four to six renewal options of five years
each. 

Some
agreements also provide for contingent rentals based on sales performance in
excess of specified minimums. In 2007, 2006 and 2005, contingent rentals were
insignificant. 

The
Company subleases certain properties that are no longer held for use in
operations.  Sublease income was not significant for any of the
periods presented. 

Certain
equipment is also leased by the Company under agreements ranging from three to
five years. These agreements typically contain renewal options providing for a
renegotiation of the lease, at the Company's option, based on the fair market
value at that time. 

The
future minimum rental payments required under capital and operating leases
having initial or remaining non-cancelable lease terms in excess of one year are
summarized as follows: 

44 

Rental
expenses under operating leases for real estate and equipment were $369 million,
$318 million and $301 million in 2007, 2006 and 2005, respectively and were
recognized in SG A expense. 

NOTE
13   Commitments and Contingencies: 

The
Company is a defendant in legal proceedings considered to be in the normal
course of business, none of which, individually or collectively, are believed to
have a risk of having a material impact on the Company s financial
statements.  In evaluating liabilities associated with its various
legal proceedings, the Company has accrued for probable liabilities associated
with these matters. The amounts accrued were not material to the Company s
consolidated financial statements in any of the years presented. 

A Company
subsidiary, Lowe s HIW, Inc., is a defendant in a lawsuit,  Cynthia Parris, et al. v. Lowe s
HIW, Inc ., alleging failure to pay overtime wages pursuant to the
requirements of the California Labor Code. This case is similar to litigation
filed against other employers in California. This case was filed on October 29,
2001 in Los Angeles Superior Court on behalf of a class of all non-exempt hourly
employees who, since October 11, 1997, have been employed or are currently
employed in California by Lowe s HIW, Inc.  As a result of a California
appellate court decision, the case is now proceeding in the trial court as a
class action seeking monetary and other relief. Lowe s HIW, Inc. believes
that its compensation practices comply with California law and is vigorously
defending this lawsuit.  Because this lawsuit is in the very early
stages of class action proceedings,  the Company cannot
reasonably estimate the range of loss that may arise from this
claim.  

As of
February 1, 2008, the Company had non-cancelable commitments related to
purchases of merchandise inventory, property and construction of buildings, as
well as commitments related to certain marketing and information technology
programs of $1.8 billion.  Payments under these commitments are
scheduled to be made as follows: 2008, $1.0 billion; 2009, $411 million; 2010,
$402 million; 2011, $4 million; 2012, $2 million; thereafter, $11
million. 

45 

NOTE
14   Related Parties: 

A
brother-in-law of the Company s Executive Vice President of Business Development
is a senior officer of a vendor that provides millwork and other building
products to the Company.  In both 2007 and 2006, the Company purchased
products in the amount of $101 million from this vendor, while in 2005 the
Company purchased products in the amount of $84 million from this vendor.
 Amounts payable to this vendor were insignificant at February 1, 2008 and
February 2, 2007. 

NOTE
15 - Other Information: 

Net
interest expense is comprised of the following: 

Supplemental
disclosures of cash flow information: 

Noncash
      investing and financing activities: 

Noncash
      fixed asset acquisitions, including   assets
      acquired under capital lease 

$  
              99  

$  
              159  

$  
              175  

Conversions
      of long-term debt to equity 

$  
              13  

$  
              82  

$  
              565  

46 

Sales by product
category: 

47 

Table of Contents 

48 

Table of Contents 

Quarterly Stock Price Range and Cash
Dividend Payment   

As of March 28,
2008 there were 31,941 registered holders of Lowe's common stock. 

49 

</EX-13>

<EX-21>
 4
 exhibit21.htm
 EXHIBIT 21 - LIST OF SUBSIDIARIES

exhibit21.htm 

Exhibit
21 

LOWE S
COMPANIES, INC. AND SUBSIDIARY COMPANIES 

NAME
      AND DOING BUSINESS AS: 

STATE
      OF INCORPORATION 

Lowe's
      Home Centers, Inc. 

North
      Carolina 

Lowe's
      HIW, Inc. 

Washington 

Certain
      subsidiaries were omitted pursuant to Item 601 (21)(ii) of Regulation S-K
      under the Securities and Exchange Act of 1934, as
  amended. 

</EX-21>

<EX-23>
 5
 exhibit23.htm
 EXHIBIT 23 - CONSENT OF DELOITTE & TOUCHE LLP

exhibit23.htm 

Exhibit
23 

CONSENT
OF INDEPENDENT REGISTERED PUBLIC ACCOUNTING FIRM 

We
consent to the incorporation by reference in: 

of our
reports dated April 1, 2008, relating to the consolidated financial statements
and financial statement schedule of Lowe s Companies, Inc. and subsidiaries (the
 Company ) and the effectiveness of the Company s internal control over
financial reporting, appearing in this Annual Report on Form 10-K of Lowe s
Companies, Inc. for the fiscal year ended February 1, 2008.  

/s/ Deloitte   Touche LLP  

Charlotte,
North Carolina 

         April
  1  ,
2008    

</EX-23>

<EX-31.1>
 6
 exhibit311.htm
 EXHIBIT 31.1 - SECTION 302 CERTIFICATION

exhibit311.htm 

Exhibit
31.1  

CERTIFICATION 

I, Robert
A. Niblock, certify that: 

(1) I
have reviewed this Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended February
1, 2008 of Lowe's Companies, Inc.; 

(2) Based
on my knowledge, this report does not contain any untrue statement of a material
fact or omit to state a material fact necessary to make the statements made, in
light of the circumstances under which such statements were made, not misleading
with respect to the period covered by this report; 

(3) Based
on my knowledge, the financial statements, and other financial information
included in this report, fairly present in all material respects the financial
condition, results of operations and cash flows of the registrant as of, and
for, the periods presented in this report; 

(4) The
registrant's other certifying officer and I are responsible for establishing and
maintaining disclosure controls and procedures (as defined in Exchange Act Rules
13a-15(e) and 15d-15(e)) and internal control over financial reporting (as
defined in Exchange Act Rules 13a-15(f)) for the registrant and
have: 

(a)   

Designed
      such disclosure controls and procedures, or caused such disclosure
      controls and procedures to be designed under our supervision, to ensure
      that material information relating to the registrant, including its
      consolidated subsidiaries, is made known to us by others within those
      entities, particularly during the period in which this report is being
      prepared; 

(b)   

Designed
      such internal control over financial reporting, or caused such internal
      control over financial reporting to be designed under our supervision, to
      provide reasonable assurance regarding the reliability of financial
      reporting and the preparation of financial statements for external
      purposes in accordance with generally accepted accounting
      principles; 

(c)   

Evaluated
      the effectiveness of the registrant's disclosure controls and procedures
      and presented in this report our conclusions about the effectiveness of
      the disclosure controls and procedures, as of the end of the period
      covered by this report based on such evaluation;
  and 

(d)   

Disclosed
      in this report any change in the registrant's internal control over
      financial reporting that occurred during the registrant's most recent
      fiscal quarter (the registrant's fourth fiscal quarter in the case of an
      annual report) that has materially affected, or is reasonably likely to
      materially affect, the registrant's internal control over financial
      reporting; and 

(5) The
registrant's other certifying officer and I have disclosed, based on our most
recent evaluation of internal control over financial reporting, to the
registrant's auditors and the audit committee of the registrant's board of
directors (or persons performing the equivalent functions): 

(a)   

All
      significant deficiencies and material weaknesses in the design or
      operation of internal control over financial reporting which are
      reasonably likely to adversely affect the registrant's ability to record,
      process, summarize and report financial information;
  and 

(b)   

Any
      fraud, whether or not material, that involves management or other
      employees who have a significant role in the registrant's internal control
      over financial reporting. 

April
      1, 2008    

Date 

/s/
      Robert A. Niblock  

Robert
      A. Niblock 

                Chairman
      of the Board and Chief Executive
Officer 

</EX-31.1>

<EX-31.2>
 7
 exhibit312.htm
 EXHIBIT 31.2 - SECTION 302 CERTIFICATION

exhibit312.htm 

Exhibit
31.2  

CERTIFICATION 

I, Robert
F. Hull, Jr., certify that: 

(1) I
have reviewed this Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended February
1, 2008 of Lowe's Companies, Inc.; 

(2) Based
on my knowledge, this report does not contain any untrue statement of a material
fact or omit to state a material fact necessary to make the statements made, in
light of the circumstances under which such statements were made, not misleading
with respect to the period covered by this report; 

(3) Based
on my knowledge, the financial statements, and other financial information
included in this report, fairly present in all material respects the financial
condition, results of operations and cash flows of the registrant as of, and
for, the periods presented in this report; 

(4) The
registrant's other certifying officer and I are responsible for establishing and
maintaining disclosure controls and procedures (as defined in Exchange Act Rules
13a-15(e) and 15d-15(e)) and internal control over financial reporting (as
defined in Exchange Act Rules 13a-15(f)) for the registrant and
have: 

(a)   

Designed
      such disclosure controls and procedures, or caused such disclosure
      controls and procedures to be designed under our supervision, to ensure
      that material information relating to the registrant, including its
      consolidated subsidiaries, is made known to us by others within those
      entities, particularly during the period in which this report is being
      prepared; 

(b)   

Designed
      such internal control over financial reporting, or caused such internal
      control over financial reporting to be designed under our supervision, to
      provide reasonable assurance regarding the reliability of financial
      reporting and the preparation of financial statements for external
      purposes in accordance with generally accepted accounting
      principles; 

(c)   

Evaluated
      the effectiveness of the registrant's disclosure controls and procedures
      and presented in this report our conclusions about the effectiveness of
      the disclosure controls and procedures, as of the end of the period
      covered by this report based on such evaluation;
  and 

(d)   

Disclosed
      in this report any change in the registrant's internal control over
      financial reporting that occurred during the registrant's most recent
      fiscal quarter (the registrant's fourth fiscal quarter in the case of an
      annual report) that has materially affected, or is reasonably likely to
      materially affect, the registrant's internal control over financial
      reporting; and 

(5) The
registrant's other certifying officer and I have disclosed, based on our most
recent evaluation of internal control over financial reporting, to the
registrant's auditors and the audit committee of the registrant's board of
directors (or persons performing the equivalent functions): 

(a)   

All
      significant deficiencies and material weaknesses in the design or
      operation of internal control over financial reporting which are
      reasonably likely to adversely affect the registrant's ability to record,
      process, summarize and report financial information;
  and 

(b)   

Any
      fraud, whether or not material, that involves management or other
      employees who have a significant role in the registrant's internal control
      over financial reporting. 

April
        1  ,
      200  8      

Date 

/s/
      Robert F. Hull, Jr.  

Robert
      F. Hull, Jr., 

                  Executive
      Vice President and Chief Financial
Officer 

</EX-31.2>

<EX-32.1>
 8
 exhibit321.htm
 EXHIBIT 32.1 - SECTION 906 CERTIFICATION

exhibit321.htm 

Exhibit
32.1 

Certification
Pursuant to 18 U.S.C. Section 1350, 

      as
Adopted Pursuant to Section 906 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 

In
connection with the Annual Report on Form 10-K of Lowe's Companies, Inc. (the
"Company") for the fiscal year ended February 1, 2008 as filed with the
Securities and Exchange Commission on the date hereof (the "Report"), I, Robert
A. Niblock, certify, pursuant to 18 U.S.C. Section 1350, as adopted pursuant to
Section 906 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, that: 

1.   

The
      Report fully complies with the requirements of Section 13(a) or 15(d) of
      the Securities Exchange Act of 1934;
and 

2.   

The
      information contained in the Report fairly presents, in all material
      respects, the financial condition and results of operations of the
      Company. 

/s/     Robert
A. Niblock    

Name:
Robert A. Niblock 

Title:
Chairman of the Board and Chief Executive Officer 

Date:
April   1  , 200  8    

</EX-32.1>

<EX-32.2>
 9
 exhibit322.htm
 EXHIBIT 32.2 - SECTION 906 CERTIFICATION

exhibit322.htm 

Exhibit
32.2 

Certification
Pursuant to 18 U.S.C. Section 1350, 

      as
Adopted Pursuant to Section 906 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 

In
connection with the Annual Report on Form 10-K of Lowe's Companies, Inc. (the
"Company") for the fiscal year ended February 1, 2008 as filed with the
Securities and Exchange Commission on the date hereof (the "Report"), I, Robert
F. Hull, Jr., certify, pursuant to 18 U.S.C. Section 1350, as adopted pursuant
to Section 906 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, that: 

1.   

The
      Report fully complies with the requirements of Section 13(a) or 15(d) of
      the Securities Exchange Act of 1934;
and 

2.   

The
      information contained in the Report fairly presents, in all material
      respects, the financial condition and results of operations of the
      Company. 

/s/     Robert
F. Hull, Jr  .    

Name:
Robert F. Hull, Jr. 

Title:
Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer 

Date: April
  1  ,
2008    

</EX-32.2>

