<Header>
<FileStats>
    <FileName>20090331_10-K_edgar_data_60667_0000060667-09-000036_1.txt</FileName>
    <GrossFileSize>3869612</GrossFileSize>
    <NetFileSize>259001</NetFileSize>
    <NonText_DocumentType_Chars>4478</NonText_DocumentType_Chars>
    <HTML_Chars>1899738</HTML_Chars>
    <XBRL_Chars>0</XBRL_Chars>
    <XML_Chars>0</XML_Chars>
    <N_Tables>65</N_Tables>
    <N_Exhibits>11</N_Exhibits>
</FileStats>
<SEC-Header>
0000060667-09-000036.hdr.sgml : 20090331
<ACCEPTANCE-DATETIME>20090331163400
ACCESSION NUMBER:		0000060667-09-000036
CONFORMED SUBMISSION TYPE:	10-K
PUBLIC DOCUMENT COUNT:		13
CONFORMED PERIOD OF REPORT:	20090130
FILED AS OF DATE:		20090331
DATE AS OF CHANGE:		20090331

FILER:

	COMPANY DATA:	
		COMPANY CONFORMED NAME:			LOWES COMPANIES INC
		CENTRAL INDEX KEY:			0000060667
		STANDARD INDUSTRIAL CLASSIFICATION:	RETAIL-LUMBER & OTHER BUILDING MATERIALS DEALERS [5211]
		IRS NUMBER:				560578072
		STATE OF INCORPORATION:			NC
		FISCAL YEAR END:			0131

	FILING VALUES:
		FORM TYPE:		10-K
		SEC ACT:		1934 Act
		SEC FILE NUMBER:	001-07898
		FILM NUMBER:		09719442

	BUSINESS ADDRESS:	
		STREET 1:		1000 LOWE'S BLVD.
		CITY:			MOORESVILLE
		STATE:			NC
		ZIP:			28117
		BUSINESS PHONE:		7047581000

	MAIL ADDRESS:	
		STREET 1:		P.O. BOX 1000
		CITY:			MOORESVILLE
		STATE:			NC
		ZIP:			28115

</SEC-Header>
</Header>

 
Proc-Type: 2001,MIC-CLEAR
Originator-Name: webmaster@www.sec.gov
Originator-Key-Asymmetric:
 MFgwCgYEVQgBAQICAf8DSgAwRwJAW2sNKK9AVtBzYZmr6aGjlWyK3XmZv3dTINen
 TWSM7vrzLADbmYQaionwg5sDW3P6oaM5D3tdezXMm7z1T+B+twIDAQAB
MIC-Info: RSA-MD5,RSA,
 HKk9dLL/coB3zBbaohSYxennlMBGCIgeQFvytSsKHnoh3mN+pyyd8+hUWpNF3p7M
 pAUBQ5hDtLpTCKs9qdkkcA==

 0000060667-09-000036.txt : 20090331

10-K
 1
 lowesform10k01302009.htm
 LOWE'S FORM 10-K JANUARY 30, 2009

lowesform10k01302009.htm 

UNITED STATES  

         SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE
COMMISSION  

         Washington, D.C.
20549  

FORM 10-K  

        (Mark
One) 

LOWE'S   COMPANIES, 
      INC  . 

(Exact name of registrant as specified in its
    charter)

NORTH
      CAROLINA  

56-0578072  

(State
      or other jurisdiction of incorporation or organization) 

(I.R.S.
      Employer Identification No.) 

Securities
registered pursuant to Section 12(b) of the Act: 

Title
      of each class 

Name
      of each exchange on which registered 

Common Stock, $.50 Par
      Value  

New York Stock Exchange
      (NYSE)  

Indicate
by check mark if the registrant is a well-known seasoned issuer, as defined in
Rule 405 of the Securities Act.     

x  

Yes  

o  

No  

Indicate
by check mark if the registrant is not required to file reports pursuant to
Section 13 or Section 15(d) of the Exchange Act. 

o  

Yes  

x  

No  

Indicate
by check mark whether the registrant (1) has filed all reports required to be
filed by Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 during the
preceding 12 months (or for such shorter period that the registrant was required
to file such reports), and (2) has been subject to such filing requirements for
the past 90 days.  

x  

Yes  

o  

No  

Indicate
by check mark if disclosure of delinquent filers pursuant to Item 405 of
Regulation S-K  ( 229.405
of this chapter)  is not contained herein, and will not be contained,
to the best of registrant's knowledge, in definitive proxy or information
statements incorporated by reference in Part III of this Form 10-K or any
amendment to this Form 10-K.      x     

Indicate
by check mark whether the registrant is a large accelerated filer, an
accelerated filer, a non-accelerated filer, or a smaller reporting company. See
the definitions of  large accelerated filer," "accelerated filer,  and
"smaller reporting company" in Rule 12b-2 of the Exchange Act. (Check
one): 

Large
      accelerated filer  x  

Accelerated
      filer  o  

Non-accelerated
      filer  o  

Smaller
      reporting company  o  

Indicate
by check mark whether the registrant is a shell company (as defined in Rule
12b-2 of the Exchange Act). 

o 

Yes 

x 

No 

As of
August 1, 2008, the last business day of the Company's most recent second
quarter, the aggregate market value of the registrant s common stock held by
non-affiliates of the registrant was $22.8 billion based on the closing sale
price as reported on the New York Stock Exchange. 

Indicate
the number of shares outstanding of each of the issuer s classes of common
stock, as of the latest practicable date. 

DOCUMENTS INCORPORATED BY
REFERENCE  

Document 

Parts Into Which
    Incorporated  

Portions
      of Lowe s 2008 Annual Report to Shareholders 

Parts
      I, II and IV 

Portions
      of the Proxy Statement for Lowe s 2009 Annual Meeting of
      Shareholders 

Part
      III 

LOWE S COMPANIES,
INC.  

      -
INDEX - 

PART
I   

Page No.   

Item 1.  

Business  

4-10  

Item 1A.  

Risk Factors  

10-12  

Item 1B.  

Unresolved Staff Comments  

12  

Item 2.  

Properties  

12  

Item 3.  

Legal Proceedings  

12  

Item 4.  

Submission of Matters to a Vote of Security
      Holders  

12  

Executive Officers of the
      Registrant  

13  

PART
    II   

Item 5.  

Market for Registrant s Common Equity, Related
      Stockholder Matters and Issuer Purchases of  

                              Equity Securities  

14  

Item 6.  

Selected Financial Data  

14  

Item 7.  

Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial
      Condition and Results of Operations  

14  

Item 7A.  

Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market
      Risk  

14  

Item 8.  

Financial Statements and Supplementary
      Data  

14  

Item 9.  

Changes in and Disagreements with Accountants on
      Accounting and Financial Disclosure  

14  

Item 9A.  

Controls and Procedures  

14  

Item 9B.  

Other Information  

14  

PART
      III   

Item 10.  

Directors, Executive Officers and Corporate
      Governance  

15  

Item 11.  

Executive Compensation  

15  

Item 12.  

Security Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owners and
      Management and Related Stockholder Matters  

15  

Item 13.  

Certain Relationships and Related Transactions, and
      Director Independence  

15  

Item 14.  

Principal Accounting Fees and
      Services  

15  

PART
    IV   

Item 15.  

Exhibits, Financial Statement
      Schedules  

16-20  

Signatures  

21-22  

3 

Part I  

Item 1 - Business  

General
Information 

Lowe s
Companies, Inc. and subsidiaries (the Company) is a Fortune 50 company and the
world s second largest home improvement retailer.  As of January 30,
2009, we operated 1,638 stores across 50 states and 11 stores in
Canada.  Our 1,649 stores represent approximately 187 million square
feet of retail selling space. 

Incorporated
in North Carolina in 1952, Lowe s Companies, Inc. has been publicly held since
1961. Our common stock is listed on the New York Stock Exchange - ticker symbol
 LOW.  

See Item
6,  Selected Financial Data,  for historical revenues, profits and identifiable
assets. 

Who
We Serve 

We serve
homeowners, renters and Commercial Business Customers.  Homeowners and
renters primarily consist of do-it-yourself (DIY) customers and do-it-for-me
(DIFM) customers who utilize our installed sales programs, as well as others
buying for personal and family use.  Commercial Business Customers
include those who work in the construction, repair/remodel, commercial and
residential property management, and business maintenance
professions. 

To meet
customers  varying home improvement needs, we offer a complete line of products
and services for home decorating, maintenance, repair, remodeling, and property
maintenance.  We offer home improvement products in the following
categories: appliances, lumber, paint, flooring, building materials, millwork,
lawn   landscape products, fashion plumbing, hardware, lighting, tools,
seasonal living, rough plumbing, outdoor power equipment, cabinets  
countertops, nursery, rough electrical, home environment, home organization, and
windows   walls. 

Our Market  

Using the
most recent comprehensive data available, which is from 2007, we estimate the
size of the U.S. home improvement market to be approximately $695 billion
annually, comprised of $535 billion of product demand and $160 billion of
installed labor opportunity during that period.  Data from a variety of
primary and secondary sources, including trade associations, government
publications, industry participants and other sources was analyzed as the basis
for our estimate.  This data captures a wide range of categories
relevant to our business, including major appliances and garden
supplies.  Based on the most recently available data we believe that
the size of the U.S. home improvement market decreased by more than 7% in
2008. 

The home
improvement retailing business includes many competitors.  We compete
with a number of traditional hardware, plumbing, electrical and home supply
retailers, as well as other chains of warehouse home improvement stores and
lumberyards in most of our trade areas.  In addition, we compete, with
respect to some of our products, with general merchandise stores, mail order
firms, warehouse clubs, and online retailers.  The principal
competitive factors are customer service, location, price, product and brand
selection, and name recognition.  

There are
many variables that impact consumer demand for the products and services we
offer.  Key indicators we monitor include employment, real disposable
personal income, housing turnover, and home ownership levels.  We also
monitor demographic and societal trends that are indicators of home improvement
industry growth.  

Employment
      is an indicator of home improvement sales.  The forecasted
      average unemployment rate of 8.6% for 2009 from the March 2009 Blue
      Chip Economic Indicators  is higher than the 5.7% average seen in
      2008 and suggests that Americans will continue to face challenging
      employment prospects this year. 

Although
      real disposable personal income continues to grow, it is projected to grow
      at a slower pace for 2009 than the long-term average annual increase of
      3.4%, calculated from 1960 to 2008.  Real disposable personal
      income growth is forecasted to be 1.7% for calendar 2009, compared with
      1.1% for calendar 2008, based on data from the March 2009 Blue Chip
      Economic Indicators . 

Housing
      turnover, which peaked in calendar year 2005, continues to slow
      according to The National Association of Realtors .  Recent data
      suggests that 2009 will remain challenging for housing
      turnover. 

According
      to the U.S. Census Bureau, while U.S. home ownership levels over the
      past year have continued their decline
from 

4 

2007,
      they remain above their historical average.  Home ownership
      provides an established customer base for home maintenance and repair
      projects.   The vast majority of our customers are
      homeowners and they are not willing to let what is often their most
      valuable financial asset
deteriorate. 

Currently,
all of these indicators suggest continued weakness in consumer
demand.  In this economic environment, we seek to balance our
long-term growth plans with a near-term focus on conserving capital and
maintaining liquidity. 

Our
Stores 

New
Store Expansion 

      We
opened 115 new stores in fiscal 2008, including five Canadian stores
located primarily in the Greater Toronto Area.  Our 2008 store
openings included three primary prototypes: 117,000-square-foot (117K) and
103,000-square-foot (103K) stores for large markets and a 94,000-square-foot
(94K) store to serve smaller markets.  The following table illustrates
our store expansion over the last three years: 

We expect
to open 60 to 70 new stores in fiscal 2009, which includes continued expansion
in Canada as well as our first stores in Monterrey, Mexico.  Our
fiscal 2009 store openings will be comprised primarily of 117K, 103K and 94K
stores.  As we continue our expansion and strive to maximize our
return on investment, we consider market demographics and land availability,
among other factors, to determine the appropriate prototype for a particular
market.  The reduction in store openings in 2009 as compared to 2008
reflects the challenging current economic environment. 

Investments
in Existing Stores 

      During
fiscal 2008, we continued our long history of investing in our existing stores
to enhance the shopping experience for our retail and Commercial Business
Customers, while at the same time rationalizing our capital spending on these
efforts to ensure appropriate return on investment.  These efforts
included re-lamping our stores at regular intervals to ensure they remained
bright, adding new displays, improving point-of-sale and directional signage,
adding more product selection, repainting our building exteriors, and
re-striping our parking lots.  We categorize our merchandising-related
investments in our stores as resets or remerchandising. 

Resets 

      Resets
are necessary to keep our stores fresh with new and innovative products, updated
fashions and compelling displays.  These resets can involve changing
products, displays and vendors.  However, they generally do not
require major changes in the store.  We conducted hundreds of resets
in fiscal 2008, with each reset typically being performed across most
or all of our stores. 

Remerchandising 

      In fiscal
2008, we completed the remerchandising of 79 of our earlier format stores to
make them more closely resemble our most current store
prototypes.  These remerchandising efforts were focused on moving
entire departments, improving adjacencies and enhancing the shopability within
the appliances, cabinets   countertops, flooring, fashion plumbing, paint,
lighting, and home style   organization departments.  We also
replaced or refurbished all of our selling centers as well as returns and
customer service areas of these stores.  All new interior graphics,
signage, and way-finding materials were also added to increase shopability and
brighten the atmosphere.  Finally, self check-out was included as a
part of these remerchandising efforts for locations where it had not previously
been installed.  These enhancements enable our stores to deliver
stronger sales by offering our customers a best-in-class shopping
experience. 

Serving
Our Customers 

Our
vision is to be our customers  first choice for home improvement.  To
achieve this vision, we continue to focus on excellent customer service,
Everyday Low Prices, New Lower Price, and innovative operational, merchandising,
marketing and distribution 

5 

strategies.  We
believe customers  perceptions of the quality of service determine a retailer s
success or failure.  Therefore, we are always looking for ways to
improve our level of service, optimize store labor and drive in-store process
improvement, build our talent pool, and enhance our sales
culture.  The following are several key initiatives we believe will
continue to support our growth and success going forward. 

Everyday
Low Prices 

        Our
customers do not have to wait for a sale to find a great value.  We
offer low prices every day.  Our promise to customers is that if they
find a lower everyday or advertised price on an identical stock product at a
local competitor, we will not just match that price, but we will beat it by
10%. 

Specialty
Sales 

        Our
Specialty Sales initiatives include Installed Sales, Special Order Sales and
Commercial Business Customer sales.   We recognize the
opportunity that our Specialty Sales initiatives represent and the importance of
these businesses to our long-term growth.  However, in the current
economic environment demand for Installed Sales and Special Order Sales
offerings has declined due to hesitancy by consumers to make big ticket
discretionary purchases. 

Installed
Sales 

        We offer
installation services in over 40 categories with flooring, millwork and cabinets
  countertops generating the highest sales.  Our Installed Sales
model, which includes the separation of selling and administrative tasks, allows
our sales associates to maintain their focus on project selling, while project
managers ensure that the details related to an installation job are efficiently
executed.  Installed Sales, which includes both product and labor,
accounted for approximately 6% of total sales in fiscal 2008. 

Special
Order Sales 

        Our
Special Order Sales product offerings provide our customers the opportunity to
select a wider assortment of product options beyond the approximately 40,000 we
carry in our stores.  We are making the Special Order Sales process
easier for customers by providing more product displays and electronic product
catalogs in our stores, as well as on Lowes.com.  We continue to
enhance integrated design tools and ordering systems storewide in order for
customers to envision projects, as well as to efficiently receive quotations and
complete an order. 

Our
Special Order Express initiative is intended to allow for faster and more
efficient delivery of Special Order products to customers, while at the same
time provide the ability to better manage our inventory
investment.  Under this approach, certain items that do not have
enough individual store demand to be economically stocked in all stores, but
have sizeable demand across a group of stores, will be kept on hand in our
distribution centers.  This allows for fast shipment to our stores, or
in some cases, direct shipment to a customer s home.  Our Special
Order Express initiative allows us to balance quickly satisfying customers 
needs with a desire to minimize our inventory investment.  We will
continue to refine and enhance this initiative in fiscal 2009. 

Commercial
Business Customers 

        Growth in
total sales to Commercial Business Customers continued to outpace the company
average in fiscal 2008.  Our focus remains being a valued business
partner to our customers who work in the construction, repair/remodel,
commercial and residential property management, and business maintenance
professions.  Because we understand the challenges of the current
economic environment and the importance of timeliness to these customers, we
continue to evaluate and tailor our product, service, and competitive offerings
to best meet the needs of these customers.  These programs focus on
in-stock and special order merchandise, contractor packs, business credit,
pricing for larger projects, our LowesForPros.com dedicated business website,
and convenience services such as fast ordering and 7-day delivery. 

Lowes.com 

        Lowes.com
seeks to empower consumers by providing a 24/7 shopping experience and helping
reduce the complexity of product decisions and home improvement projects by
providing online product information, customer ratings and reviews, online
buying guides and how-to videos and information.  These tools help
consumers make smarter, more informed purchasing decisions and give consumers
confidence as they undertake simple to more complex home improvement
projects.  We also enable consumers to choose from a variety of
multichannel fulfillment options including buy online and pick-up in-store,
product delivery and direct shipment to customers  homes.  As our business
evolves we continue to look for opportunities beyond fulfillment to leverage
emerging technologies and online trends to build strong relationships with
consumers that will make us the first choice for their home improvement
needs. 

Credit
Financing 

We offer
a proprietary credit card for retail customers.  In addition, we offer
a Lowe s Project Card in all stores.  Lowe s Project Card provides a
major project, in-store financing solution to complement our Lowe s Consumer
Revolving Credit Card. 

6 

We also
offer proprietary credit programs for Commercial Business
Customers.  They include a Lowe s Business Account, which is ideal for
small- to medium-size businesses and offers minimum monthly payments, and Lowe s
Accounts Receivable, which is ideal for medium- to large-size businesses that
pay in full each month. 

In
addition, we accept Visa , MasterCard , Discover  and American Express  credit
cards, as well as debit cards from all major networks. 

For
additional detail regarding our credit programs, see Item 7A,  Quantitative and
Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk , and Item 8,  Financial Statements
and Supplementary Data.  

Our
Products 

Product
Sourcing 

            We source
our products from over 7,000 merchandise vendors worldwide, with no single
vendor accounting for more than seven percent of total
purchases.  Management believes that alternative and competitive
suppliers are available for virtually all our products.  Whenever
possible, we purchase directly from manufacturers to provide savings for our
customers and gross margin improvement for Lowe s. 

In
addition to offering a wide selection of national brand name merchandise, we are
committed to building long-term value for Lowe s through the development of
exclusive, proprietary brands where we focus on delivering the best quality, the
best value and recognizably differentiated products to meet our customers  needs
and wants. 

National
Brand Name Merchandise 

            In many
product categories, customers look for a brand they know and trust to instill
confidence in their purchase.  A typical Lowe's home improvement store
stocks approximately 40,000 items, with hundreds of thousands of items available
through our Special Order Sales system.  Each store carries a wide
selection of national brand name merchandise such as KitchenAid , Samsung,
Whirlpool , Pella , Werner , Kohler , DeWalt , John Deere, Troy-Bilt , Bosch ,
Valspar , Owens Corning , Electrolux , Porter-Cable  and many
more.  Our merchandise selection provides the DIY, DIFM and Commercial
Business Customer a one-stop shop for products needed to complete home
improvement, repair, maintenance or construction projects. 

Proprietary
Brands 

            To
further differentiate our offering, we carry many brands that are exclusive to
Lowe s.  These unique brands cover several categories like lighting,
flooring, tools and more, and give our customers great quality and value.
Exclusive brand names such as Premier Living , Kobalt , Portfolio , Harbor
Breeze , Reliabilt , Top-Choice  Lumber and Utilitech  are found only at
Lowe s. 

Distribution
Network 

            To
efficiently move product from our vendors to our stores and maintain in-stock
levels, we own and operate 14 highly-automated regional distribution centers
(RDCs).  The RDCs are strategically located in North Carolina (2),
Georgia, Indiana, Pennsylvania (2), Texas, California, Ohio, Florida,
Connecticut, Wyoming, Illinois and Oregon.  On average, each RDC
serves 118 stores.  We also utilize a third-party distribution
facility to serve our Canadian stores. 

We
operate 15 flatbed distribution centers (FDCs) to distribute merchandise that
requires special handling due to size or type of packaging such as lumber,
boards, panel products, irrigation pipe, vinyl sidings, ladders and building
materials.  We own 13 and lease two of these FDCs. 

We also
operate four facilities to support our import business, Special Order Sales and
internet fulfillment.  We own two and lease two of these
facilities.  In addition, we utilize three third-party transload
facilities.  These facilities do not hold inventory, but are the first
point of receipt for imported products.  The transload facilities sort
and allocate products to RDCs based on individual store demand and
forecasts. 

On
average in fiscal 2008, over 72% of the stock merchandise we purchased was
shipped through our distribution network, while the remaining portion was
shipped directly to stores from our vendors. 

Building Our Brand   

Customers
want Lowe s to serve as a resource for products and projects to help them
repair, maintain, and enhance their homes and communities.  Our
marketing and advertising programs, communicated via television, radio,
newspaper, magazine, direct mail, 

7 

sponsorships,
internet and in-store programs, all play a critical role in cultivating this
emotional and rational connection with the consumer. Through an extensive
understanding of our customers and their needs and expectations, we deliver a
message that will develop loyal customer relationships and differentiate Lowe s
from other home improvement sources. 

With the
downturn in the economy that accelerated in the second half of fiscal 2008,
consumers became even more value conscious.  As a result, we adjusted
our communication to ensure that we presented value to consumers even more
clearly, given our platform of Everyday Low Prices. 

New
Lower Price 

            Our
ongoing New Lower Price initiative, which has been in place for several years,
highlights price reductions on products that consumers want to purchase
everyday.  In the current economic environment, we are emphasizing
this initiative to pass along cost savings in order to deliver enhanced value to
our customers. 

Media
Investment 

            A
combination of national broadcast and cable television, supplemented by a number
of national magazines, internet banner advertising and search investment,
provides the platform for building brand awareness. We complement the
national media investment in key markets by local television and radio
schedules. 

In the
past, newspaper circulars and ROP (Run of Press) served as the primary
communication vehicle for retail price and item messaging, and regularly
featured Lowe s breadth of product selection, customer services and Everyday Low
Price positioning. However, given the accelerating erosion in newspaper
subscription bases and readership, we have invested time and money in
alternative retail price and item advertising delivery vehicles.  We
are testing new on-line vehicles that deliver to a large audience at a low
cost.  We believe this is more efficient and effective advertising in
today s fast paced and on-line world. 

Major
promotional events receive network radio support with a local radio overlay in
key markets.  We promote internet access to Lowe s retail advertising
through the use of online banner and circular advertising. In many cases, we
feature our entire circular on-line within the on-line advertising section of
major market newspapers.  This is a location of increasing readership,
as more households read their newspaper on line.  The Lowe s brand has
also been successfully integrated into television programming, including the
Oprah Winfrey show and Rate My Space on HGTV. 

Direct
to Consumer Marketing 

            We
continue to refine programs to respond to the changing needs and lifestyles of
consumers.  Through innovative database technology, we create direct mail
campaigns based on precise criteria such as purchase activity, affinity group
subscription(s), household demographics, regional weather patterns, opt-in email
requests, and even consumers who are preparing to move, are in the process of
moving or have recently moved into a new home ( New Movers ). 

Despite
the housing slow-down, New Movers continue to spend considerably more on their
previous and new homes than the average homeowner.  This past year, we
executed our New Movers program through the U.S. Postal Service s change of
address program.  As the renter population grew in 2008, we quickly
remixed our focus of this New Movers program to be more inclusive of this
customer group, as well as the new opportunities associated with repairing and
renovating foreclosed homes that have been repurchased. 

Additionally,
opt-in e-mail programs line up with Lowe s affinity and education
programs:  Lowe s Creative Ideas for Home and Garden , Lowe s Creative
Ideas for Outdoor Living  and Lowe s Creative Ideas for Woodworkers .  The
Lowe s Creative Ideas Magazine subscription base is now as large as many major
magazines and has become a very efficient way to market Lowe s to a group of our
most valuable customers. 

Membership
in the Team Lowe s Racing Fan Club and participation in the Build-n-Grow
children s clinics creates another level of engagement with our consumers both
inside Lowe s stores and beyond our walls.  Each of these varying
acquisition and retention programs creates loyal Lowe s customers. 

Multicultural
Marketing 

Lowe s
reaches its diverse communities and customer base in various manners, including
multicultural marketing and outreach to Hispanic, African-American and Asian
customers.  For these cultural groups, Lowe s executes advertising across
many media, including television, radio, print, and on line, in both English and
native languages.  Some of the unique efforts include La Cancha Lowe s,
Lowe s Hispanic mobile marketing program providing fun to families at key soccer
events across the country; Lowe s sponsorship of the CIAA s annual Basketball
Tournament, the nation s oldest black athletic conference consisting of ten
historically African-American institutions of higher education, that has
blossomed into one of largest collegiate post-season tournaments in the country;
the national Lowe s sponsorship of the Piolin and Monique radio programs
targeted to Hispanic and African American listeners; and Lowe s new Chinese,
Korean, and Vietnamese language websites offering a new way for many Asian
consumers to learn more about home improvement. 

8 

Team
Lowe s Racing 

                NASCAR
remains an important part of building our brand. We are the proud sponsor of
Jimmie Johnson, three time NASCAR Sprint  Cup Series champion, the #48 car and
Lowe s Motor Speedway.  We also host hospitality events at various
sites throughout the racing season, leveraging and further building membership
in the Team Lowe s Racing Fan Club.  In 2008, we continued to sponsor
Adrian Fernandez and Fernandez Racing to field the #15 car in the American Le
Mans Series whose fan base is very different than that of
NASCAR.  Going to market through both the #48 and #15 teams, helps us
to connect with a broad base of customers through one of America s favorite
sports   auto racing. 

Reaching
Out 

We
believe community involvement extends beyond the boundaries of our
stores.  In 2008, Lowe's and the Lowe's Charitable and
Educational Foundation contributed more than $26 million to communities in which
we operate across North America.  Following are some examples of how
we are partnering with respected nonprofit organizations to make a difference in
our communities: 

Lowe s
Charitable and Educational Foundation 

                The
Lowe s Charitable and Educational Foundation (LCEF) was created in 1957 to
assist communities through financial contributions while also encouraging
employees to become involved through volunteerism.  In 2008, the
Foundation supported more than 1,400 community and education projects in the
U.S. and Canada with grants totaling more than $15 million.  Programs
funded by LCEF include Lowe s Toolbox for Education  ,  SkillsUSA and Rebuilding
Together . 

o   

Toolbox
      for Education  has two goals: Get parents involved in their children s
      education and provide grants to parent groups to help improve their
      children s schools.  In 2008, Lowe s Toolbox for Education grant
      program contributed more than $4 million to schools throughout all 50
      states. 

o   

In
      2008, LCEF donated $1 million to SkillsUSA, a national nonprofit
      organization serving teachers and high school and college students who are
      preparing for careers in trade, technical and skilled service
      occupations.  Additionally in June, Lowe s helped kick off the
      SkillsUSA National Leadership and Skills Conference in Kansas City, Mo.,
      which showcases the skills of career and technical education
      students. 

o   

Lowe s
      also continued its commitment to supporting safe and affordable housing in
      2008 with a contribution from LCEF of $1 million to Rebuilding Together,
      the nation s largest all-volunteer home rehabilitation
      organization.  For the second year, Lowe s and Rebuilding
      Together worked together to support 83 projects that allowed low-income
      homeowners to stay warm and safe in their own
  homes. 

Habitat
for Humanity 

                As a home
improvement retailer, Lowe s helps our customers every day through the trials
and triumphs of home ownership.  For more than five years, Lowe s and
Habitat for Humanity  International have worked together to combat substandard
housing across America.  In 2008, Lowe s contributed $2 million to
help Habitat for Humanity International forward its goal of eliminating poverty
housing, bringing Lowe s total Habitat donations to more than $18 million since
2003.  This support has benefited more than 1,400
families.  Additionally since 2004, Lowe s has underwritten the
Habitat for Humanity Women Build  program, which empowers women to learn
construction skills through How-to Clinics held at Lowe s stores and to put
those skills to use on build sites nationwide.  In 2008, Habitat for
Humanity and Lowe s launched National Women Build Week, hosting 150 Women Build
projects in all 50 states in the week leading up to Mother s
Day.  Lowe s pledged $750,000 to the initiative, contributing a $5,000
grant to each National Women Build Week participating affiliate. 

Partnering
with Customers 

                In
addition to contributions made by Lowe s, we have partnered with our customers
to support organizations such as the American Red Cross and the Muscular
Dystrophy Association (MDA).  Over the nearly 10-year span that Lowe s
has supported the American Red Cross, floods, hurricanes, tornadoes and
wildfires have destroyed property and forever changed lives.  A
constant throughout has been the quick action of Lowe s employees and customers
to help establish and support donation sites, resulting in more than $20 million
in contributions.  In addition, for the first time during 2008, Lowe s
took its grassroots store support for MDA nationwide, making it one of the
largest supporters of MDA s Shamrocks Against Dystrophy Campaign. In 2008,
Lowe s stores helped raise more than $2 million during the Shamrocks campaign,
bringing the total raised since the Lowe s program began in the stores to more
than $4 million. 

Partnering
with Employees 

Lowe s
also partners with its employees through Lowe s Heroes and the Lowe s Employee
Relief Fund.  Lowe s Heroes employee volunteers tackle local problems
in their communities.  In 2008, Lowe s Heroes responded to needs big
and small from Ontario, Canada, to Orange County, California.  The
Lowe s Employee Relief Fund distributes emergency funds to our employees who
face financial hardships due to natural disasters, house fires or
illness.  Making our donations even more powerful, Lowe s matches
each 

9 

employee
contribution dollar for dollar.  The Lowe s Employee Relief Fund began
in 1999 and has contributed more than $8 million in assistance to employees and
their families, including more than $2 million in 2008. 

Information
Systems 

We are
continuously assessing and upgrading our information systems in an effort to
support growth, augment new sales initiatives, control costs and enable better
decision-making.  Our systems support all functions in the stores,
distribution facilities, field-based offices, and the customer support centers
in Mooresville, NC and Wilkesboro, NC.  Our two state-of-the-art data
centers provide many additional fail-safe features to improve system
availability and mitigate risks associated with unplanned outages. 

We have
invested significant resources to safeguard sensitive employee and customer
information.  We work closely with industry standards groups to
incorporate security best practices into our technology
environment.     

Employees 

As of
January 30, 2009, we employed approximately 164,000 full-time and 65,000
part-time employees, none of which are covered by collective bargaining
agreements.  Management considers its relations with its employees to
be good. 

Available
Information 

Our
annual report on Form 10-K, quarterly reports on Form 10-Q, current reports on
Form 8-K and amendments to those reports filed or furnished pursuant to Section
13(a) or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, are made
available free of charge through our website at  www.Lowes.com , under
the  About Lowe s  and  Investors  captions, as soon as reasonably practicable
after such documents are electronically filed with, or furnished to, the
Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC).  The public may also read
and copy any materials the Company files with the SEC at the SEC s Public
Reference Room at 100 F Street, NE, Washington, DC 20549.  Information
on the operation of the Public Reference Room may be obtained by calling the SEC
at 1-800-SEC-0330.  The SEC maintains an Internet site, www.sec.gov,
that contains reports, proxy and information statements, and other information
regarding issuers that file electronically with the SEC. 

Item 1A - Risk Factors  

We are
exposed to a variety of risks and uncertainties. Most are general risks and
uncertainties applicable to all retailers, but some are more particular to
retailers serving the home improvement industry.   Our operations
may also be affected by factors that are either not currently known to us or
which we currently consider immaterial to our business.  We describe
below some of the specific known factors that could negatively affect our
business, financial condition and results of operations.  All
forward-looking statements made by us in this Annual Report to the Securities
and Exchange Commission on Form 10-K, in our Annual Report to Shareholders and
in our subsequently filed quarterly and current reports to the Securities and
Exchange Commission, as well as in our press releases and other public
communications, are qualified by the risks described below. 

Our
sales are dependent upon the health and stability of the general
economy. 

                    General
economic factors and other conditions, both domestically and internationally,
may adversely affect the U.S. economy, the global economy and our financial
performance.  These include, but are not limited to, periods of flat
economic growth or recession, volatility and/or lack of liquidity from time to
time in U.S. and world financial markets and the consequent reduced availability
and/or higher cost of credit to Lowe s and its customers, slower rates of growth
in real disposable personal income, higher rates of unemployment, higher
consumer debt levels, increasing fuel and energy costs, inflation or deflation
of commodity prices, natural disasters, acts of terrorism and developments in
the war against terrorism in Asia and the Middle East. 

The deep
global recession that officially began in the U.S. in December 2007 and the
financial/credit crisis that has led to the collapse, government bailout or
acquisition of weakened major financial institutions have had and will continue
to have significant adverse effects on our results of
operations.  Rising unemployment, reduced consumer confidence and
reduced access to credit have combined to lead to sharply reduced consumer
spending, particularly by our customers on many of the discretionary, big-ticket
items we sell that tend to be larger home improvement project
driven.  Consumer confidence and willingness to spend on discretionary
items remains low and our sales and results of operations will continue to be
adversely affected throughout the current fiscal year and, if the recovery from
this deep recessionary period and financial crisis is unusually gradual and
prolonged as some are predicting, potentially beyond. 

Adverse
changes in economic factors specific to the home improvement industry may
negatively impact the rate of growth of our total sales and comparable store
sales. 

Sales of
many of our product categories and services are driven by housing turnover and
activity level of home improvement projects.  Sharply declining home
prices that are expected to continue to decline in 2009, increasing mortgage
delinquency and foreclosure rates, reduction in the availability of mortgage
financing, rising interest rates on variable rate mortgages, and significantly
lower housing 

10 

turnover,
have limited and may continue to limit consumers  discretionary spending,
particularly on discretionary items, and affect their confidence level leading
to further reduced spending on home improvement projects.  The impact
of these economic factors specific to the home improvement industry is
exacerbated by rising unemployment in a weak job market. 

Unseasonable
weather conditions and adverse weather events can negatively affect our total
sales and comparable store sales. 

                        If
weather conditions are uncharacteristic of the time of year during any season,
they can hurt our sales by making it difficult to sell seasonal
merchandise.   Although the impact of unseasonable weather
conditions is mitigated somewhat by the broad geographic dispersion of our
stores, they continue to be a significant risk to the overall performance of our
business, particularly when they occur across a broad region of the
U.S.  Adverse weather events, such as a prolonged and widespread
drought, can hurt our sales of particular products as well. 

Our
store expansion and relocation strategy depends upon our ability to successfully
open and operate new stores each year. 

                        Our
growth in total sales depends not only on a recovery from the current
recessionary period but also to a substantial degree on successfully and
cost-effectively implementing our ongoing expansion program.  We
scaled back our expansion plans significantly last year and plan to scale back
even further in the current fiscal year in response to the weak
environment.   As we expand further, we must adapt our
merchandising, marketing and distribution initiatives to new markets both
domestically and as we continue to expand into Canada and
Mexico.   We also plan to increase the number of our stores in
markets in which we currently operate.  Our ability to open additional
stores depends, in large measure, upon our ability to locate and acquire new
store sites on acceptable terms.   Local land use and other
regulations restricting the construction of buildings in the formats with which
we operate may affect our ability to open new stores in some
markets.  As we develop more new stores in metropolitan markets, we
may incur increased costs to remediate environmental pollution on some of the
sites we are redeveloping that was caused by previous owners of those
sites.  Our ability to continue to expand our operations depends also
on our ability to attract and retain a large and growing number of qualified
employees.  If we are unable to open new stores at the rate we
currently plan and staff them with qualified employees, the growth in our sales
and our competitive position could be adversely affected. 

If
we fail to hire, train and retain qualified managers, sales associates and other
employees we could lose sales to our competitors. 

                        Customers 
perceptions of the quality of service provided by employees can determine any
retailer s success or failure.  If we fail to attract, train and
retain qualified managers and sales associates our financial performance could
be adversely impacted.  Consumers shopping for goods and services for
home improvement projects expect to have sales associates serving them who are
knowledgeable about product categories located throughout our
stores. 

Excessive
turnover, which has historically been high among employees in entry-level or
part-time positions, increases the risk that sales associates will not have the
training and experience needed to provide competitive, high quality customer
service. 

Our
success in serving the needs of Commercial Business Customers is dependent upon
our ability to attract and retain qualified commercial sales
specialists. 

                        Commercial
Business Customers in the home improvement industry require that we have
well-trained commercial sales specialists at our project desks.  By
doing so, we can better serve the needs of this customer on a consistent
basis.  Our commercial sales specialists have a great depth of
knowledge about the products needed by Commercial Business
Customers.  If we fail to staff our project desks with experienced and
knowledgeable employees, we run the risk that we will lose Commercial Business
Customers. 

We
have many competitors, who, if we fail to execute our merchandising, marketing
and distribution strategies effectively, could take sales and market share from
us. 

                        We
operate in a highly competitive market for home improvement products and
services and have numerous large and small, direct and indirect
competitors.  The competitive environment in which we operate is
particularly challenging during recessionary periods with heavy promotions,
particularly of discretionary items, and competitor closings. The principal
competitive factors in our industry include location of stores, price and
quality of merchandise, in-stock consistency, merchandise assortment and
presentation, and customer service.  Our failure to respond
effectively to competitive pressures and changes in the retail markets could
affect our financial performance.  Moreover, changes in the
promotional pricing and other practices of our competitors, including the
effects of competitor liquidation activities, may impact our expected
results. 

An
unusual number of product liability or breach of warranty claims for defective
products could expose us to expensive claims and damage our standing with
customers. 

We are
exposed to product liability and product warranty claims relating to the
products we sell that could adversely affect our financial condition, results of
operations and cash flows.  Because we do not have direct control over
the quality of products manufactured or supplied to us by our vendors and
because we self-insure for such product liability and warranty claims, we are
exposed to risks relating to the quality of such products.  Product
liability claims can be expensive to defend and can divert the attention of
management and other personnel for significant periods, regardless of the
ultimate outcome. Claims of this nature could also have a negative impact on
customer confidence in the products we stock and in our reputation. 

11 

Our
financial performance could suffer if we fail to properly maintain our critical
information systems or if those systems are seriously disrupted. 

                          An
important part of our efforts to achieve efficiencies, cost reductions, and
sales and cash flow growth is the identification and implementation of
improvements to our management information systems to improve operations such as
inventory replenishment systems, merchandise ordering, transportation, and
receipt processing.  Our financial performance could be adversely
affected if our management information systems are seriously disrupted or we are
unable to improve, upgrade, maintain, and expand our systems. 

If
the domestic or international supply chain for our products is disrupted, our
sales and gross margin would be adversely impacted. 

                          We source
the approximately 40,000 products we stock and sell from approximately 7,000
domestic and international vendors.  We source many of those products
directly from foreign manufacturers.  Political or financial
instability among suppliers, trade restrictions, tariffs, currency exchange
rates and transport capacity and costs are beyond our control and could
negatively impact our business if they seriously disrupted the movement of
products through our supply chain.   The current global
recession and credit crisis are adversely affecting the operations and financial
stability of some of our vendors by reducing their sales and restricting their
access to capital.  We may have to replace some of our smaller
vendors, and some of our vendors may not be able to fulfill their financial
obligations to us or to do so in a timely manner.  

Our
inability to effectively manage our relationships with selected suppliers of
brand name products could negatively impact our ability to differentiate
ourselves from competitors. 

                          Part of
our expansion strategy includes continued differentiation from
competitors.  To better distinguish our product offering, we form
strategic relationships with selected suppliers to market and develop products
under a variety of recognized and respected brand names.  The
inability to effectively and efficiently manage the relationships with these
suppliers could negatively impact our business plan and financial
results. 

Item 1B - Unresolved Staff Comments  

None. 

Item 2 - Properties  

At
January 30, 2009 we operated 1,649 stores in the U.S. and Canada with a total of
187 million square feet of selling space. Of the total stores operating at
January 30, 2009, approximately 88% are owned, which includes stores on leased
land, with the remainder being leased from unaffiliated
third-parties.  Approximately 49% of our store leases are capital
leases. We also own and operate 14 RDCs and 13 FDCs for lumber and building
commodities.  We lease and operate two additional FDCs. We operate one
third-party distribution facility to serve our Canadian
stores.   We also operate four facilities to support our import
business, Special Order Sales and internet fulfillment.  We own two
and lease two of these facilities.  In addition, we utilize three
third-party transload facilities, which do not hold inventory but are the first
point of receipt for imported products.  We own one data center and
lease one data center that serve as hubs for our computer processing, critical
data storage and information technology systems.  We own our executive
offices, which are located in Mooresville, North Carolina.  We also
own and maintain offices in Wilkes County, North Carolina, and lease and
maintain offices in Toronto, Canada and Monterrey, Mexico. 

Item 3 - Legal Proceedings  

We are a
defendant in legal proceedings considered to be in the normal course of
business, none of which, individually or collectively, is considered
material. 

Item 4 - Submission of Matters to a Vote of Security
Holders  

None. 

12 

EXECUTIVE OFFICERS OF THE REGISTRANT  

The
following is a list of names and ages of all of the executive officers of the
registrant indicating all positions and offices with the registrant held by each
such person and each person's principal occupations or employment during the
past five years. 

13 

Part II  

Item
5   -
  Market for Registrant s
Common Equity, Related Stockholder Matters and Issuer Purchases of Equity
Securities   

Lowe's
common stock is traded on the New York Stock Exchange (NYSE). The ticker symbol
for Lowe's is  LOW .  As of March 27, 2009, there were 1,474,239,704
holders of record of Lowe's common stock. The table, "Quarterly Stock Price
Range and Cash Dividend Payment", on page 44 of the 2008 Lowe s Annual Report to
Shareholders for the fiscal year ended January 30, 2009 sets forth, for the
periods indicated, the high and low sales prices per share of the common stock
as reported by the NYSE Composite Tape and the dividends per share declared on
the common stock during such periods. 

As of
January 30, 2009, the total remaining authorization through fiscal 2009 under
the share repurchase program was $2.2 billion. 

Item 6 - Selected Financial Data  

See
"Selected Financial Data" on page 43 of the Lowe s 2008 Annual Report to
Shareholders. 

Item 7 - Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition
and Results of Operations  

See
"Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of
Operations" on pages 17 through 25 and "Disclosure Regarding Forward-Looking
Statements" on page 26 of Lowe s 2008 Annual Report to
Shareholders. 

Item 7A - Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures about Market
Risk  

See
"Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk" on page 25 of
Lowe s 2008 Annual Report to Shareholders. 

Item 8 - Financial Statements and Supplementary Data  

See
"Report of Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm" of Deloitte  
Touche LLP on page 27, the financial statements and notes thereto on pages 28
through 42, and the "Selected Quarterly Data" on page 43 of Lowe s 2008 Annual
Report to Shareholders. 

Item 9 - Changes in and Disagreements with Accountants on Accounting
and Financial Disclosure  

None. 

Item 9A - Controls and Procedures  

The
Company's management, with the participation of the Chief Executive Officer and
Chief Financial Officer, has evaluated the effectiveness of the Company s
 disclosure controls and procedures , (as such term is defined in
Rule 13a-15(e) promulgated under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as
amended, (the Exchange Act)). Based upon their evaluation, the Chief Executive
Officer and Chief Financial Officer concluded that, as of the end of the period
covered by this report, the Company s disclosure controls and procedures were
effective for the purpose of ensuring that the information required to be
disclosed in the reports that the Company files or submits under the Exchange
Act with the Securities and Exchange Commission (the SEC) (1) is recorded,
processed, summarized and reported within the time periods specified in the
SEC s rules and forms, and (2) is accumulated and communicated to the
Company s management, including its principal executive and principal financial
officers, as appropriate to allow timely decisions regarding required
disclosure. 

In
addition, no change in the Company s internal control over financial reporting
occurred during the fiscal fourth quarter ended January 30, 2009 that has
materially affected, or is reasonably likely to materially affect, the Company s
internal control over financial reporting. 

Management s
report on internal control over financial reporting (as such term is defined in
Rule 13a-15(f) under the Exchange Act) and the report of Deloitte   Touche
LLP, the Company s independent registered public accounting firm, are included
in Lowe s 2008 Annual Report to Shareholders on pages 26 and 27 under the
headings,  Management s Report on Internal Control Over Financial Reporting  and
 Report of Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm,  respectively, and are
incorporated herein by reference. 

Item 9B - Other Information  

None. 

14 

Part III  

Item 10 - Directors, Executive Officers  and Corporate
Governance  

Information
required by this item is furnished by incorporation by reference to all
information under the captions entitled, "Election of Directors," "Information
Concerning the Nominees," "Information Concerning Continuing Directors,"
"Information about the Board of Directors and Committees of the Board," and
"Section 16(a) Beneficial Ownership Reporting Compliance" included in the
definitive Proxy Statement which will be filed pursuant to regulation 14A, with
the SEC within 120 days after the fiscal year ended January 30, 2009 (the Proxy
Statement).  The information required by this item with respect to our
executive officers appears in Part I of this Annual Report on Form 10-K under
the caption, "Executive Officers of the Registrant. " 

All
employees of the Company, including its Chief Executive Officer, Chief Financial
Officer and Chief Accounting Officer are required to abide by the Lowe's
Companies, Inc. and Subsidiaries Code of Business Conduct and Ethics (the Code).
The Code is designed to ensure that the Company's business is conducted in a
legal and ethical manner. The Code covers all areas of professional conduct
including compliance with laws and regulations, conflicts of interest, fair
dealing among customers and suppliers, corporate opportunity, confidential
information, insider trading, employee relations and accounting complaints. A
full text of the Code can be found at www.Lowes.com, under the "About Lowe s,"
 Investors  and "Code of Ethics" captions. You can also obtain a copy of the
complete Code by contacting Shareholder Services at 1-888-345-6937. 

We will
disclose information pertaining to amendments or waivers to provisions of our
Code that apply to our principal executive officer, principal financial officer,
principal accounting officer or persons performing similar functions and that
relate to the elements of our Code enumerated in the SEC rules and regulations
by posting this information on our website at www.Lowes.com. The information on
our website is not a part of this Annual Report and is not incorporated by
reference in this report or any of our other filings with the SEC. 

Item 11 - Executive Compensation  

Information
required by this item is furnished by incorporation by reference to all
information under the captions entitled, "Executive Officer Compensation" and
"Information about the Board of Directors and Committees of the Board  
Compensation of Directors" included in the Proxy Statement. 

Item 12 - Security Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owners and
Management and Related Stockholder Matters  

Information
required by this item is furnished by incorporation by reference to all
information under the captions entitled, "Security Ownership of Certain
Beneficial Owners and Management" and  Equity Compensation Plan Information 
included in the Proxy Statement. 

Item 13 - Certain Relationships and Related Transactions, and
Director Independence  

Information
required by this item is furnished by incorporation by reference to all
information under the captions entitled, "Related-Party Transactions" and
"Information about the Board of Directors and Committees of the Board - Director
Independence"   included
in the Proxy Statement. 

Item 14 - Principal Accounting Fees and Services  

Information
required by this item is furnished by incorporation by reference to all
information under the caption entitled, "Audit Matters - Fees Paid to the
Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm" included in the Proxy
Statement. 

15 

Part IV  

Item 15 - Exhibits, Financial Statement Schedules  

a) 1.
 Financial
Statements  

                          See the
following items and page numbers appearing in Lowe s 2008 Annual Report to
Shareholders: 

Page(s) 

Reports
      of Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm 

27 

Consolidated
      Statements of Earnings for each of the three fiscal years in the
      period ended January 30, 2009 

28 

Consolidated
      Balance Sheets at January 30, 2009 and February 1, 2008 

29 

Consolidated
      Statements of Shareholders' Equity for each of the three fiscal years
      in the period ended January 30, 2009 

30 

Consolidated
      Statements of Cash Flows for each of the three fiscal years in the
      period ended January 30, 2009 

31 

Notes
      to Consolidated Financial Statements for each of the three fiscal
      years in the period ended January 30, 2009 

32-42 

2.
 Financial
Statement Schedule  

REPORT
OF INDEPENDENT REGISTERED PUBLIC ACCOUNTING FIRM 

To the
Board of Directors and Shareholders of Lowe s Companies, Inc. 

                          Mooresville,
North Carolina 

We have
audited the accompanying consolidated financial statements of Lowe's Companies,
Inc. and subsidiaries (the "Company")  as of January 30, 2009 and
February 1, 2008, and for each of the three fiscal years in the period ended
January 30, 2009, and the Company's internal control over financial reporting as
of January 30, 2009, and have issued our reports thereon dated   March
31, 2009 ;  such consolidated financial statements and reports are
included in the Company's 2008 Annual Report to Shareholders and are
incorporated herein by reference. Our audits also included the consolidated
financial statement schedule of the Company listed in Item 15. This consolidated
financial statement schedule is the responsibility of the Company's management.
Our responsibility is to express an opinion based on our audits. In our opinion,
such consolidated financial statement schedule, when considered in relation to
the basic consolidated financial statements taken as a whole, presents fairly,
in all material respects, the information set forth therein. 

/s/
Deloitte   Touche LLP   

Charlotte,
North Carolina 

                            March
31, 2009   

16 

SCHEDULE II - VALUATION AND
QUALIFYING ACCOUNTS AND RESERVES  

(a) :   
Represents increase/(decrease) in the required reserve based on the Company s
evaluation of obsolete inventory. 

                           (b) :   
Represents the actual inventory shrinkage experienced at the time of physical
inventories. 

                           (c) :   
Represents increase/(decrease) in the required reserve based on the Company s
evaluation of anticipated merchandise returns. 

                           (d) :   
Represents claim payments for self-insured claims. 

                           (e) :   
Represents lease payments and adjustments, net of sublease income. 

(f) :    
Represents an increase in the required reserve based on the Company s evaluation
of deferred tax assets. 

17 

18 

19 

20 

SIGNATURES  

Pursuant
to the requirements of Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of
1934, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by
the undersigned, thereunto duly authorized. 

LOWE S
      COMPANIES, INC. 

(Registrant) 

March
      31, 2009   

By:
      /s/ Robert A. Niblock                                  

Date 

Robert
      A. Niblock 

Chairman
      of the Board and Chief Executive Officer 

March
      31, 2009   

By:
      /s/ Robert F. Hull, Jr.   

Date 

Robert
      F. Hull, Jr. 

Executive
      Vice President and Chief Financial Officer 

March
      31, 2009   

By:
      /s/ Matthew V. Hollifield   

Date 

Matthew
      V. Hollifield 

Senior
      Vice President and Chief Accounting
Officer 

21 

Pursuant
to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, this report on Form
10-K has been signed below by the following persons on behalf of the Registrant
and in the capacities and on the dates indicated. Each of the directors of the
Registrant whose signature appears below hereby appoints Robert F. Hull, Jr.,
Matthew V. Hollifield and Gaither M. Keener, Jr., and each of them severally, as
his or her attorney-in-fact to sign in his or her name and behalf, in any and
all capacities stated below, and to file with the Securities and Exchange
Commission any and all amendments to this report on Form 10-K, making such
changes in this report on Form 10-K as appropriate, and generally to do all such
things in their behalf in their capacities as directors and/or officers to
enable the Registrant to comply with the provisions of the Securities Exchange
Act of 1934, and all requirements of the Securities and Exchange
Commission. 

22 

<EX-10.10>
 2
 exhibit1010.htm
 EXHIBIT 10.10 - AMENDED AND RESTATED LOWE'S COMPANIES, INC. EMPLOYEE STOCK PURCHASE PLAN- STOCK OPTIONS FOR EVERYONE

exhibit1010.htm 

Exhibit
10.10 

LOWE S
COMPANIES 

EMPLOYEE
STOCK PURCHASE PLAN- 

STOCK
OPTIONS FOR EVERYONE 

As
Amended and Restated Effective December 1, 2008 

TABLE
OF CONTENTS 

ARTICLE
I -
DEFINITIONS ........................................................................................................................................................................................................1 

1.01           Administrator ........................................................................................................................................................................................................1 

      1.02           Affiliate
...................................................................................................................................................................................................................1 

      1.03           Board ......................................................................................................................................................................................................................1 

      1.04           Change
in
Control ................................................................................................................................................................................................1 

      1.05           Code ......................................................................................................................................................................................................................
2 

      1.06           Common
Stock ......................................................................................................................................................................................................2 

      1.07           Company ................................................................................................................................................................................................................2 

      1.08           Compensation. ......................................................................................................................................................................................................2 

      1.09           Control
Change
Date ............................................................................................................................................................................................3 

      1.10           Date
of
Exercise .....................................................................................................................................................................................................3 

      1.11           Date
of
Grant ..........................................................................................................................................................................................................3 

      1.12           Election
Date ..........................................................................................................................................................................................................3 

      1.13           Eligible
Employee ..................................................................................................................................................................................................3 

      1.14           Enrollment
Form .....................................................................................................................................................................................................3 

      1.15           Enrollment
Period ..................................................................................................................................................................................................3 

      1.16           Exchange
Act .........................................................................................................................................................................................................3 

      1.17           Fair
Market
Value ...................................................................................................................................................................................................3 

      1.18           Five
Percent
Shareholder .....................................................................................................................................................................................4 

      1.19           Offering
Period .......................................................................................................................................................................................................4 

      1.20           Option ......................................................................................................................................................................................................................4 

      1.21           Participant ...............................................................................................................................................................................................................4 

      1.22           Plan ..........................................................................................................................................................................................................................4 

ARTICLE
II -
PURPOSES ............................................................................................................................................................................................................4 

ARTICLE
III -
ADMINISTRATION ............................................................................................................................................................................................4 

ARTICLE
IV -
ELIGIBILITY ........................................................................................................................................................................................................5 

ARTICLE
V - COMPENSATION
DEDUCTIONS ....................................................................................................................................................................5 

5.01           Enrollment
Form
.....................................................................................................................................................................................................5 

      5.02           Participant s
Account ..........................................................................................................................................................................................5 

ARTICLE
VI - OPTION
GRANTS ..............................................................................................................................................................................................5 

6.01           Number
of
Shares .................................................................................................................................................................................................5 

      6.02           Option
Price ...........................................................................................................................................................................................................6 

ARTICLE
VII - EXERCISE OF
OPTION ...................................................................................................................................................................................6 

7.01           Automatic
Exercise ...............................................................................................................................................................................................6 

      7.02           Change
in
Control .................................................................................................................................................................................................6 

      7.03           Nontransferability .................................................................................................................................................................................................6 

      7.04           Employee
Status ....................................................................................................................................................................................................7 

      7.05           Delivery
of
Shares .................................................................................................................................................................................................7 

      7.06           Vesting ....................................................................................................................................................................................................................7 

ARTICLE
VIII - WITHDRAWAL AND TERMINATION OF
EMPLOYMENT .................................................................................................................7 

8.01           Generally ...............................................................................................................................................................................................................7 

      8.02           Subsequent
Participation ...................................................................................................................................................................................7 

ARTICLE
IX - STOCK SUBJECT TO
PLAN .........................................................................................................................................................................7 

9.01           Aggregate
Limit ...................................................................................................................................................................................................7 

      9.02           Reallocation
of
Shares ........................................................................................................................................................................................8 

ARTICLE
X - ADJUSTMENT UPON CHANGE IN COMMON
STOCK ...........................................................................................................................8 

ARTICLE
XI - COMPLIANCE WITH LAW AND APPROVAL OF
REGULATORY BODIES ....................................................................................8 

ARTICLE
XII - GENERAL
PROVISIONS ..............................................................................................................................................................................8 

12.01               Effect
on Employment and
Service ............................................................................................................................................................8 

      12.02               Unfunded
Plan ..............................................................................................................................................................................................9 

      12.03               Rules
of
Construction ..................................................................................................................................................................................9 

ARTICLE
XIII -
AMENDMENT ................................................................................................................................................................................................9 

ARTICLE
XIV - DURATION OF
PLAN .................................................................................................................................................................................9 

ARTICLE
XV - EFFECTIVE DATE OF
PLAN .......................................................................................................................................................................9 

ARTICLE
I - DEFINITIONS 

1.01                       Administrator  .  

Administrator
means the Lowe s Companies, Inc. Administrative Committee. 

1.02                       Affiliate.  

Affiliate
means any  parent corporation  or  subsidiary corporation  (within the meaning
of Section 424 of the Code) of the Company, including a corporation that becomes
an Affiliate after the adoption of this Plan, that the Administrator designates
as a participating employer in the Plan. 

1.03                       Board  .  

Board
means the Board of Directors of the Company or any committee of such Board of
Directors to which, and to the extent, the Board of Directors of the Company has
delegated some or all of its power, authority, duties or responsibilities with
respect to the Plan. 

1.04                       Change in
Control  .  

Change in
Control means the occurrence of any one of the following events: 

(i) 

individuals
      who constitute the Board as of December 1, 2008 (the   Incumbent
      Directors  ) cease for any reason to constitute at least a majority
      of the Board,  provided   that  any person
      becoming a director after the Effective Date and whose election or
      nomination for election was approved by a vote of at least a majority of
      the Incumbent Directors then on the Board (either by a specific vote or by
      approval of the proxy statement of the Company in which such person is
      named as a nominee for director, without written objection to such
      nomination) shall be an Incumbent Director;  provided ,  however , that
      no individual initially elected or nominated as a director of the Company
      as a result of an actual or threatened election contest (as described in
      Rule 14a-11 under the Exchange Act) (  Election
      Contest  ) or other actual or threatened solicitation of proxies or
      consents by or on behalf of any  person  (as such term is defined in
      Section 3(a)(9) of the Exchange Act and as used in Section 13(d)(3) and
      14(d)(2) of the Exchange Act) other than the Board (  Proxy
      Contest  ), including by reason of any agreement intended to avoid
      or settle any Election Contest or Proxy Contest, shall be deemed an
      Incumbent Director; 

(ii) 

any
      person becomes a  beneficial owner  (as defined in Rule 13d-3 under the
      Exchange Act), directly or indirectly, of securities of the Company
      representing 25% or more of the combined voting power of the Company s
      then outstanding securities eligible to vote for the election of the Board
      (the   Company
      Voting Securities    provided ,  however , that
      the event described in this paragraph (ii) shall not be deemed to be a
      Change in Control of the Company by virtue of any of the following
      acquisitions: (A) an acquisition directly by or from the Company or any
      Affiliate; (B) an acquisition by any employee benefit plan (or related
      trust) sponsored or maintained by the Company or any Affiliate, (C) an
      acquisition by an underwriter temporarily holding securities pursuant to
      an offering of such securities, or (D) an acquisition pursuant to a
      Non-Qualifying Transaction (as defined in paragraph (iii));
    or 

(iii) 

the
      consummation of a reorganization, merger, consolidation, statutory share
      exchange or similar form of corporate transaction involving the Company
      that requires the approval of the Company s shareholders, whether for such
      transaction or the issuance of securities in the transaction (a
       Reorganization ), or the sale or other disposition of all or
      substantially all of the Company s 

assets to
an entity that is not an affiliate of the Company (a   Sale  ), unless
immediately following such Reorganization or Sale: (A) more than 60% of the
total voting power of (x) the corporation resulting from such Reorganization or
the corporation which has acquired all or substantially all of the assets of the
Company (in either case, the   Surviving
Corporation  ), or (y) if applicable, the ultimate parent corporation that
directly or indirectly has beneficial ownership of 100% of the voting securities
eligible to elect directors of the Surviving Corporation (the   Parent Corporation  ),
is represented by the Company Voting Securities that were outstanding
immediately prior to such Reorganization or Sale (or, if applicable, is
represented by shares into which such Company Voting Securities were converted
pursuant to such Reorganization or Sale), and such voting power among the
holders thereof is in substantially the same proportion as the voting power of
such Company Voting Securities among the holders thereof immediately prior to
the Reorganization or Sale, (B) no person (other than (x) the Company, (y) any
employee benefit plan (or related trust) sponsored or maintained by the
Surviving Corporation or the Parent Corporation, or (z) a person who immediately
prior to the Reorganization or Sale was the beneficial owner of 25% or more of
the outstanding Company Voting Securities) is the beneficial owner, directly or
indirectly, of 25% or more of the total voting power of the outstanding voting
securities eligible to elect directors of the Parent Corporation (or, if there
is no Parent Corporation, the Surviving Corporation), and (C) at least a
majority of the members of the board of directors of the Parent Corporation (or,
if there is no Parent Corporation, the Surviving Corporation) following the
consummation of the Reorganization or Sale were Incumbent Directors at the time
of the Board s approval of the execution of the initial agreement providing for
such Reorganization or Sale (any Reorganization or Sale which satisfies all of
the criteria specified in (A), (B) and (C) above shall be deemed to be a   Non-Qualifying
Transaction  ). 

1.05                       Code  .  

Code
means the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, and any amendments
thereto. 

1.06                       Common
Stock  .  

Common
Stock means the common stock of the Company. 

1.07                       Company  .  

Company
means Lowe s Companies, Inc. 

1.08                       Compensation  .  

Compensation means, as to payroll
periods ending during an Offering Period, (  a  ) in the case of an employee who is
classified as a full-time employee under the payroll procedures of the Company
or an Affiliate and who works at least 80 hours in a payroll period, the
employee s base salary or wages for the biweekly payroll period based on 80
hours of work during the payroll period, (  b  ) in the case of an employee who is
classified as a full-time employee under the payroll procedures of the Company
or an Affiliate and who works less than 80 hours in a payroll period, the
employee s actual base salary or wages for the biweekly payroll period,
(  c  ) in the case of an employee who is not
classified as a full-time employee under the payroll procedures of the Company
or an Affiliate and who works at least 40 hours in a payroll period, the
employee s base salary or wages for the biweekly payroll period based on 40
hours of work during the payroll period and (  d  ) in the case of an employee who is not
classified as a full-time employee under the payroll procedures of the Company
or an Affiliate and who works less than 40 hours in a payroll period, the
employee s actual base salary or wages for the biweekly payroll
period.  

2 

1.09                       Control
Change Date  .  

Control
Change Date means the date on which a Change in Control occurs.  If a
Change in Control occurs on account of a series of transactions, the  Control
Change Date  is the date of the last of such transactions. 

1.10                       Date of
Exercise  .  

Date of
Exercise shall be concurrent with the applicable Date of Grant. 

1.11                       Date of
Grant  .  

Date of
Grant means each (a) November 30 next following the June 1 beginning of each
Offering Period, and (b) May 31 next following the December 1 beginning of each
Offering Period. 

1.12                       Election
Date  .  

Election
Date means the last business day of the Enrollment Period. 

1.13                       Eligible
Employee  .  

Eligible
Employee means (a) an employee of the Company or an Affiliate who is classified
as a full-time employee under the payroll procedures of the Company or Affiliate
and (b) an employee of the Company or an Affiliate who is not classified as a
full-time employee under the payroll procedures of the Company or Affiliate and
who has completed at least twelve months of continuous employment with the
Company and its Affiliates.  The preceding sentence to the contrary
notwithstanding, an individual who is a Five Percent Shareholder is not an
Eligible Employee. 

1.14                       Enrollment
Form  .  

Enrollment
Form means a form, prescribed by the Administrator, that a Participant uses to
authorize a reduction in his Compensation in accordance with Article
V.  The form prescribed by the Administrator may be an electronic,
web-based form. 

1.15                       Enrollment
Period  .  

Enrollment
Period means (a) the month of May in the case of the Offering Period beginning
on June 1 and (b) the month of November in the case of the Offering period
beginning on December 1. 

1.16                       Exchange
Act  .  

Exchange
Act means the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended. 

1.17                       Fair
Market Value  .  

Fair
Market Value means, on any given date, the reported  closing  price of a share
of Common Stock on the primary exchange on which shares of the Common Stock are
listed.  If, on any given date, no share of Common Stock is traded on
an established stock exchange, then Fair Market Value shall be determined with
reference to the next preceding day that the Common Stock was so
traded. 

3 

1.18                       Five
Percent Shareholder  .  

Five
Percent Shareholder means any individual who, immediately after the grant of an
Option owns or would be deemed to own more than five percent of the total
combined voting power or value of all classes of stock of the Company or of an
Affiliate.  For this purpose, (i) an individual shall be considered to
own any stock owned (directly or indirectly) by or for his brothers, sisters,
spouse, ancestors or lineal descendants and shall be considered to own
proportionately any stock owned (directly or indirectly) by or for a
corporation, partnership, estate or trust of which such individual is a
shareholder, partner or beneficiary, and (ii) stock of the Company or an
Affiliate that an individual may purchase under outstanding options (whether or
not granted under this Plan) shall be treated as stock owned by the
individual. 

Offering
Period means each six-month period during the term of the Plan (i) beginning on
June 1 and ending on November 30, and (ii) beginning on December 1 and ending on
May 31. 

1.20                       Option  .  

Option
means a stock option that entitles the holder to purchase from the Company a
stated number of shares of Common Stock in accordance with, and subject to, the
terms and conditions prescribed by the Plan. 

1.21                       Participant  .  

Participant
means an Eligible Employee, including an Eligible Employee who is a member of
the Board, who satisfies the requirements of Article IV and who elects to
receive an Option. 

1.22                       Plan  .  

Plan
means the Lowe s Companies Employee Stock Purchase Plan - Stock Options for
Everyone. 

ARTICLE
II - PURPOSES 

The Plan
is intended to assist the Company and its Affiliates in recruiting and retaining
individuals with ability and initiative by enabling such persons to participate
in the future success of the Company and its Affiliates and to associate their
interests with those of the Company and its shareholders.  The Plan is
intended to permit the grant of Options qualifying under Section 423 of the
Code.  No Option shall be invalid for failure to qualify under Section
423 of the Code.  The proceeds received by the Company from the sale
of Common Stock pursuant to this Plan shall be used for general corporate
purposes. 

ARTICLE
III - ADMINISTRATION 

The Plan
shall be administered by the Administrator.  The Administrator shall
have complete authority to interpret all provisions of this Plan; to adopt,
amend, and rescind rules and regulations pertaining to the administration of the
Plan; and to make all other determinations necessary or advisable for the
administration of this Plan.  The express grant in the Plan of any
specific power to the Administrator shall not be construed as limiting any power
or authority of the Administrator.  Any decision made, or action
taken, by the Administrator in connection with the administration of this Plan
shall be final and conclusive.  The Administrator shall not be liable
for any act done in good faith with respect to this Plan or any
Option.  All expenses of administering this Plan shall be borne by the
Company. 

4 

The
Administrator, in its discretion, may delegate to one or more agents all or part
of the Administrator s authority and duties.  The Administrator may
revoke or amend the terms of a delegation at any time but such action shall not
invalidate any prior actions of the Administrator s agent that were consistent
with the terms of the Plan. 

ARTICLE
IV - ELIGIBILITY 

Each
person who is or will be an Eligible Employee as of the first day of each
Offering Period may elect to participate in the Plan by completing an Enrollment
Form in accordance with Section 5.01 and returning it to the Administrator on or
before the Election Date. 

ARTICLE
V - COMPENSATION DEDUCTIONS 

5.01                       Enrollment
Form.  

(a) 

An
      Eligible Employee who satisfies the requirements of Article IV becomes a
      Participant for an Offering Period by completing an Enrollment Form and
      returning it to the Administrator on or before the Election
      Date.  The Participant s Enrollment Form shall authorize
      deductions from his or her Compensation for purposes of the Plan and shall
      specify a percentage or a dollar amount of Compensation to be deducted;
       provided ,
       however ,
      that the percentage shall be in multiples of one percent and shall be at
      least one percent but not more than twenty percent and the aggregate
      deductions during any Offering Period shall not exceed
      $10,625. 

(b) 

A
      Participant may not contribute to, or otherwise accumulate funds under,
      the Plan except by Compensation deductions in accordance with his or her
      Enrollment Form. 

(c) 

A
      Participant s Enrollment Form becomes operative on the Election
      Date.  An Enrollment Form may be amended or revoked before the
      Election Date.  Once an Enrollment Form becomes operative it
      will continue in effect, and may not be amended, until the earlier of the
      Date of Exercise, the Participant s termination of employment or the
      Participant s withdrawal from the Plan in accordance with Section
      8.01. 

5.02                       Participant s
Account  .  

A
recordkeeping account shall be established for each Participant.  All
amounts deducted from a Participant s Compensation pursuant to his or her
Enrollment Form shall be credited to his or her account.  No interest
will be paid or credited to the account of any Participant. 

ARTICLE
VI - OPTION GRANTS 

6.01                       Number of
Shares  .  

(a) 

Each
      Eligible Employee who is a Participant on the Date of Grant shall be
      granted an Option as of the Date of Grant.  The number of shares
      of Common Stock subject to such Option shall be the number of whole shares
      determined by dividing the option price into the balance credited to the
      Participant s account as of the Date of
      Exercise.  Notwithstanding the preceding sentence, no
      Participant will be granted an Option as of any Date of Grant for more
      than a number of shares of Common Stock determined by dividing $12,500 by
      the Fair Market Value on the Date of
Grant. 

5 

(b) 

An
      Option covering a fractional share will not be granted under the
      Plan.  Any amount remaining to the credit of the Participant s
      account after the exercise of an Option shall be returned to the
      Participant. 

6.02                       Option
Price  .  

The price
per share for Common Stock purchased on the exercise of an Option shall be
eighty-five percent (85%) of the Fair Market Value on the Date of
Exercise. 

ARTICLE
VII - EXERCISE OF OPTION 

7.01                       Automatic
Exercise  .  

Subject
to the provisions of Articles VIII, IX and XI, each Option shall be exercised
automatically as of the Date of Grant for the number of whole shares of Common
Stock that may be purchased at the option price for that Option with the balance
returned to the Participant. 

7.02                       Change in
Control  .  

(a) 

Notwithstanding
      any other provision of this Plan, in the event of a Change in Control the
      Board may prescribe that (i) the Date of Exercise for all outstanding
      Options shall be the Control Change Date (in which case the option price
      per share shall be the Fair Market Value on the Control Change Date), (ii)
      all outstanding Options shall be canceled as of the Control Change Date
      and each Participant shall be entitled to a payment per share (in cash or
      other property as determined by the Board), equal to the Fair Market Value
      of the number of shares of Common Stock that would have been issued to the
      Participant if the Option had been exercised under the preceding clause
      (i) or (iii) a substitute option shall be granted for each outstanding
      Option in accordance with Section 424 of the
  Code. 

(b) 

A
      Participant shall be entitled to a payment under this Plan if (i) any
      benefit, payment, accelerated vesting or other right under this Plan
      constitutes a  parachute payment  (as defined in Code section
      280G(b)(2)(A), but without regard to Code section 280G(b)(2)(A)(ii)), with
      respect to such Participant and (ii) the Participant incurs a liability
      under Code section 4999.  The amount payable to a Participant
      described in the preceding sentence shall be the amount required to
      indemnify the Participant and hold him harmless from the application of
      Code sections 280G and 4999.  To effect this indemnification,
      the Company must pay such Participant an amount sufficient to pay the
      excise tax imposed on Participant under Code section 4999 with respect to
      benefits, payments, accelerated vesting and other rights under this Plan
      and any other plan or agreement and any income, employment,
      hospitalization, excise or other taxes attributable to the indemnification
      payment.  The benefit payable under this Section 7.02(b) shall
      be paid in a single cash sum not later than twenty days after the date (or
      extended filing date) on which the tax return reflecting liability for the
      Code section 4999 excise tax is required to be filed with the Internal
      Revenue Service. 

7.03                       Nontransferability  .  

Each
Option granted under this Plan shall be nontransferable.  During the
lifetime of the Participant to whom the Option is granted, the Option may be
exercised only by the Participant.  No right or interest of a
Participant in any Option shall be liable for, or subject to, any lien,
obligation, or liability of such Participant. 

6 

7.04                       Employee
Status  .  

For
purposes of determining whether an individual is employed by the Company or an
Affiliate, the Administrator may decide to what extent leaves of absence for
governmental or military service, illness, temporary disability, or other
reasons shall not be deemed interruptions of continuous employment. 

7.05                       Delivery
of Shares  .  

Subject
to the provisions of Articles IX and XI, the Company shall deliver, to a broker
designated by the Administrator, the shares of Common Stock acquired by each
Participant during an Offering Period.  Such shares acquired by a
Participant shall be delivered to the Participant as promptly as possible
following the Participant s request to such broker or, upon the Participant s
direction, the broker shall sell such shares of Common Stock and deliver the net
sales proceeds to the Participant. 

7.06                       Vesting  .  

A
Participant s interest in the Common Stock purchased upon the exercise of an
Option shall be immediately vested and nonforfeitable. 

ARTICLE
VIII - WITHDRAWAL AND TERMINATION OF EMPLOYMENT 

8.01                       Generally.  

A
Participant may revoke his or her Enrollment Form for an Offering Period and
withdraw from Participation in the Plan for that Offering Period by giving
written or electronic notice authorized by the Administrator to that effect to
the Administrator at any time before the Date of Exercise.  In that
event, all of the payroll deductions credited to his or her account will be paid
to the Participant promptly after receipt of the notice of withdrawal and no
further payroll deductions will be made from his or her Compensation for that
Offering Period.  A Participant shall be deemed to have elected to
withdraw from the Plan in accordance with this Section 8.01 if he or she ceases
to be an employee of the Company and its Affiliates for any reason. 

8.02                       Subsequent
Participation  .  

A
Participant who has withdrawn his participation in the Plan under Section 8.01
may submit a new Enrollment Form to the Administrator and resume participation
in the Plan for any later Offering Period, provided that he or she satisfies the
requirements of Article IV and the Administrator receives his or her Enrollment
Form on or before the Election Date. 

ARTICLE
IX - STOCK SUBJECT TO PLAN 

9.01                       Aggregate
Limit  .  

The
maximum aggregate number of shares of Common Stock that may be issued under this
Plan pursuant to the exercise of Options is 45,000,000 shares.  The
maximum aggregate number of shares that may be issued under this Plan shall be
subject to adjustment as provided in Article X. 

7 

9.02                       Reallocation
of Shares  .  

If an
Option is terminated, in whole or in part, for any reason other than its
exercise, the number of shares of Common Stock allocated to the Option or
portion thereof shall be reallocated to other Options to be granted under this
Plan. 

ARTICLE
X - ADJUSTMENT UPON CHANGE IN COMMON STOCK 

The
maximum number of shares as to which Options may be granted under this Plan and
the terms of outstanding Options shall be adjusted as the Board shall determine
to be equitably required in the event that (a) the Company (i) effects one or
more stock dividends, stock split-ups, subdivisions or consolidations of shares
or (ii) engages in a transaction to which Section 424 of the Code applies or (b)
there occurs any other event which, in the judgment of the Board necessitates
such action.  Any determination made under this Article X by the Board
shall be final and conclusive. 

The
issuance by the Company of shares of stock of any class, or securities
convertible into shares of stock of any class, for cash or property, or for
labor or services, either upon direct sale or upon the exercise of rights or
warrants to subscribe therefor, or upon conversion of shares or obligations of
the Company convertible into such shares or other securities, shall not affect,
and no adjustment by reason thereof shall be made with respect to, the maximum
number of shares as to which Options may be granted or the terms of outstanding
Options. 

ARTICLE
XI - COMPLIANCE WITH LAW AND APPROVAL 

      OF
REGULATORY BODIES 

No Option
shall be exercisable, no Common Stock shall be issued, no certificates for
shares of Common Stock shall be delivered, and no payment shall be made under
this Plan except in compliance with all applicable federal and state laws and
regulations (including, without limitation, withholding tax requirements), any
listing agreement to which the Company is a party, and the rules of all domestic
stock exchanges on which the Company s shares may be listed.  The
Company shall have the right to rely on an opinion of its counsel as to such
compliance.  Any share certificate issued to evidence Common Stock for
which an Option is exercised may bear such legends and statements as the
Administrator may deem advisable to assure compliance with federal and state
laws and regulations.  No Option shall be exercisable, no Common Stock
shall be issued, no certificate for shares shall be delivered, and no payment
shall be made under this Plan until the Company has obtained such consent or
approval as the Administrator may deem advisable from regulatory bodies having
jurisdiction over such matters. 

ARTICLE
XII - GENERAL PROVISIONS 

12.01                       Effect on
Employment and Service  .  

Neither
the adoption of this Plan, its operation, nor any documents describing or
referring to this Plan (or any part thereof) shall confer upon any individual
any right to continue in the employ of the Company or an Affiliate or in any way
affect any right and power of the Company or an Affiliate to terminate the
employment of any individual at any time with or without assigning a reason
therefor. 

8 

12.02                       Unfunded
Plan  .  

The Plan,
insofar as it provides for grants, shall be unfunded, and the Company shall not
be required to segregate any assets that may at any time be represented by
grants under this Plan.  Any liability of the Company to any person
with respect to any grant under this Plan shall be based solely upon any
contractual obligations that may be created pursuant to this Plan.  No
such obligation of the Company shall be deemed to be secured by any pledge of,
or other encumbrance on, any property of the Company. 

12.03                       Rules of
Construction  .  

Headings
are given to the articles and sections of this Plan solely as a convenience to
facilitate reference.  The reference to any statute, regulation, or
other provision of law shall be construed to refer to any amendment to or
successor of such provision of law. 

ARTICLE
XIII - AMENDMENT 

The Board
may amend or terminate this Plan from time to time;  provided ,  however , that no
amendment may become effective until shareholder approval is obtained if (i) the
amendment increases the aggregate number of shares of Common Stock that may be
issued under the Plan or (ii) the amendment changes the class of individuals
eligible to become Participants.  No amendment shall, without a
Participant s consent, adversely affect any rights of such Participant under any
Option outstanding at the time such amendment is made. 

ARTICLE
XIV - DURATION OF PLAN 

No Option
may be granted under this Plan after December 1, 2016.  Options
granted before that date shall remain valid in accordance with their
terms. 

ARTICLE
XV - EFFECTIVE DATE OF PLAN 

This Plan
originally became effective and Options were granted under this Plan following
approval by a majority of the votes entitled to be cast by the Company s
shareholders, voting either in person or by proxy, at a duly held shareholders 
meeting held on May 26, 2000 which was within twelve months after this Plan was
originally adopted by the Board.  This amended and restated Plan shall
be effective for Offering Periods beginning on and after December 1,
2008. 

9 

</EX-10.10>

<EX-10.22>
 3
 exhibit1022.htm
 EXHIBIT 10.22 - AMENDMENT NUMBER TWO TO THE LOWE'S COMPANIES, INC. DEFERRED COMPENSATION PROGRAM

exhibit1022.htm 

Exhibit
10.22 

AMENDMENT
NUMBER TWO 

      TO
THE 

      LOWE S
COMPANIES, INC. DEFERRED COMPENSATION PROGRAM 

This
Amendment Number Two to the Lowe s Companies, Inc. Deferred Compensation Program
(the   Program  )
is adopted by Lowe s Companies, Inc. (the   Company  ) effective
as of December 31, 2008. 

W I T N E
S S E T H: 

WHEREAS,
the Company currently maintains the Program as Exhibit 1 to the Lowe s
Companies, Inc. 2001 Incentive Plan; and 

WHEREAS,
the Company desire to amend the Program to eliminate the mandatory deferral of
any stock awards made prior to January 1, 2009 that become vested on or after
January 1, 2009; and 

WHEREAS,
under Section 13 of the Program, the Company may amend the Program at any
time; 

NOW,
THEREFORE, effective as of December 31, 2008, the Company hereby amends Section
2(n) of the Program (the definition of  Mandatory Deferred Benefit ) by adding
the following to the end thereof: 

Notwithstanding
any contrary provision of the Program, no Eligible Employee shall earn a
Mandatory Deferred Benefit under the Program in any Deferral Year beginning on
and after January 1, 2009. 

IN
WITNESS WHEREOF, the Company has adopted this Amendment Number Two to the
Program effective as of the day and year first above written. 

LOWE S
COMPANIES, INC. 

By:
_____________________________ 

      Name: ___________________                                                                

      Title: ____________________                                                                

</EX-10.22>

<EX-10.23>
 4
 exhibit1023.htm
 EXHIBIT 10.23 - AMENDMENT NUMBER ONE TO THE LOWE'S COMPANIES, INC. 2006 LONG TERM INCENTIVE PLAN

exhibit1023.htm 

Exhibit
10.23 

AMENDMENT
NUMBER ONE 

      TO
THE 

      LOWE S
COMPANIES, INC. 2006 LONG TERM INCENTIVE PLAN 

This
Amendment Number One to the Lowe s Companies, Inc. 2006 Long Term Incentive Plan
(the   Plan  ) is
adopted by Lowe s Companies, Inc. (the   Company  ) effective
as of December 31, 2008. 

W I T N E
S S E T H: 

WHEREAS,
the Company currently maintains the Lowe s Companies, Inc. 2006 Long Term
Incentive Plan; and 

WHEREAS,
the Company desire to amend the Plan to eliminate the mandatory deferral of any
currently outstanding stock awards under the Plan or any stock awards made on or
after January 1, 2009; and 

WHEREAS,
under Section 15.1 of the Plan, the Company may amend the Plan at any
time; 

NOW,
THEREFORE, effective as of December 31, 2008, the Company hereby amends Article
XI of the Plan by adding the following new Section 11.5 to the end
thereof: 

Section
11.5    Termination of Mandatory
Deferrals .  Notwithstanding any contrary provision of the Plan,
no Participant shall earn a Deferred Stock Benefit under the Plan with respect
to any Stock Award or award of Performance Shares outstanding or awarded on and
after January 1, 2009. 

IN
WITNESS WHEREOF, the Company has adopted this Amendment Number One to the Plan
effective as of the day and year first above written. 

LOWE S
COMPANIES, INC. 

By:
_____________________________ 

      Name: ___________________                                                                

      Title: ____________________                                                                

</EX-10.23>

<EX-12.1>
 5
 exhibit121.htm
 EXHIBIT 12.1 - STATEMENT RE COMPUTATION OF RATIO OF EARNINGS TO FIXED CHARGES

exhibit121.htm 

Exhibit
12.1 

Lowe s
Companies, Inc. 

      Statement
Re Computation of Ratio of Earnings to Fixed Charges 

      In
Millions, Except Ratio Data 

(1) 
Interest accrued on uncertain tax positions is excluded from Interest Expense in
the computation of Fixed Charges. 

(2)  The
portion of rental expense that is representative of the interest factor in these
rentals. 

</EX-12.1>

<EX-13>
 6
 exhibit13.htm
 EXHIBIT 13 - PORTIONS OF LOWE'S 2008 ANNUAL REPORT TO SHAREHOLDERS

exhibit13.htm 

Exhibit 13  

- Table of Contents-   

Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition
      and Results of Operations  

Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures
      About Market Risk   

Disclosure Regarding Forward-Looking
      Statements   

Management's Report on Internal Control Over
      Financial Reporting  

Reports of Independent Registered Public
      Accounting Firm  

Consolidated Statements of
Earnings  

Consolidated Balance Sheets  

Consolidated Statements of Shareholders'
      Equity  

Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows  

Notes to Consolidated Financial
    Statements  

Selected Financial Data  

Quarterly Stock Price Range and Cash Dividend
      Payment  

MANAGEMENT'S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF  

       FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS  

The
following discussion and analysis summarizes the significant factors affecting
our consolidated operating results, financial condition, liquidity and capital
resources during the three-year period ended January 30, 2009 (our fiscal years
2008, 2007 and 2006).  Each of the fiscal years presented contains 52
weeks of operating results.  Unless otherwise noted, all references herein
for the years 2008, 2007 and 2006 represent the fiscal years ended January 30,
2009, February 1, 2008, and February 2, 2007, respectively.  This
discussion should be read in conjunction with the consolidated financial
statements and notes to the consolidated financial statements included in this
annual report that have been prepared in accordance with accounting principles
generally accepted in the United States of America. 

EXECUTIVE
OVERVIEW 

External
Factors Impacting Our Business 

We
entered 2008 knowing a challenging sales environment would pressure our results,
but the effects of declining home prices, rising unemployment and tightening
credit markets were even greater than anticipated.  Highlighting the
impact of the current economic environment on our business, comparable store
sales declined 7.2% in 2008, while gross margin declined 43 basis points versus
the prior year.  The economic pressures on consumers intensified in
the fourth quarter as unemployment swelled, resulting in a further decline in
consumer confidence and consumer spending.  In fact, consumer spending
continued to contract at the fastest rate in over 25 years.  For the
fourth quarter of 2008, comparable store sales declined 9.9%, while gross margin
declined 115 basis points versus the fourth quarter of 2007. 

During
the fourth quarter 2008 holiday season, as consumer spending contracted
substantially, we knew that competition for sales would be intense in certain
categories where we compete with a broader group of retailers.  During
one of the most promotional holiday seasons in memory, we chose to be proactive
and move more quickly and deeply than originally planned with our seasonal
merchandise markdowns.  We also accelerated our exit strategy for the
majority of our wallpaper product group.  These more aggressive
merchandise markdowns pressured gross margin in the fourth quarter of 2008, but
improved our inventory position heading into 2009.  We expect our
first quarter 2009 gross margin to recover and be down only slightly compared to
the first quarter of 2008. 

For the
year, we estimate that the discretionary component of our sales declined to
approximately one-third of total sales, down from approximately 45% in 2006, as
the number and size of discretionary projects continued to
decline.  This hesitancy to invest in larger discretionary projects
led to a decline of 9% in comparable store sales for tickets above $500 during
the year.  However, tickets below $50 experienced only a 2% decline in
comparable store sales in 2008, evidence of the relative strength of
smaller-ticket items. 

The sales
environment remains challenging, and the external pressures facing our industry
will continue in 2009.  The potential for a recovery in demand during
2009 is primarily dependent on factors beyond our control, with stabilizing
employment statistics being one of the most important in restoring consumer
spending.  With the uncertainty in the current environment, we remain
focused on effectively deploying capital, controlling expenses and capturing
profitable market share. 

Effectively
Deploying Capital 

We have
looked critically at our capital plan for 2009 and have reduced our planned
store openings to 60 to 70 stores, inclusive of approximately five store
openings in Canada and two store openings in Mexico.  This is down
from 115 store openings in 2008.  The reduction in store openings is
in response to the challenging economic environment in markets across the
U.S.  We are also rationalizing other capital spending, including our
store remerchandising efforts, to ensure an appropriate return on our
investment.  These changes have reduced our capital plan to $2.5
billion in 2009, a reduction of $1.1 billion compared to our capital spending in
2008. 

Additionally,
where appropriate, we have adjusted our store format in large and midsized
markets as part of an overall effort to better leverage our invested
capital.  Over the last few years, we have utilized a
103,000-square-foot (103K) store 

format,
which is approximately 12% smaller than our 117,000-square-foot format, in a
number of size-constrained metropolitan locations.  This decrease in
store size provided an average reduction in spending of $2 million per store and
will provide an ongoing reduction in utility and maintenance
costs.  In 2009, we will continue to increase the proportion of new
stores utilizing the 103K store format, and in the future we plan to utilize the
103K store format for the majority of our projects. 

Our
centralized distribution network has always been fundamental to our
success.  Our network consists of 14 regional distribution centers
(RDCs); 15 flatbed distribution centers (FDCs); four facilities to support our
import business, Special Order Sales, and internet fulfillment; and three
transload facilities.  This network allows us to deliver the right
products to the right stores at the right time.  We will continue to
upgrade our logistics and distribution processes and systems to better integrate
our planning and execution.  This allows us to continue to manage our
inventory investment, drive efficiencies in our distribution network, and evolve
the process that continues to be one of our competitive advantages. 

Controlling
Expenses 

Our
largest expense is payroll, and we strive to keep payroll hours in our stores
proportionate to sales volumes and, even more specifically, to the sales volumes
of individual departments within our stores.  Our goal is to manage
our payroll expense without sacrificing customer service, which is accomplished
with the staffing model we have built over many years.  The staffing
model is reviewed regularly to incorporate improvements and efficiencies we have
implemented that have allowed us to move non-selling hours to selling
hours.  Examples of such improvements in 2008 include our Freight Flow
initiative that took best practices from our receiving process and implemented
them across the chain.  In addition, during 2008, we reduced store
hours in some of our slower sales markets when Daylight Saving Time ended, which
allowed us to reallocate hours in affected stores to the busier times of the
day.  As a result of these improvements, we have updated our staffing
model for 2009, reducing the required hours and reducing the base hours
threshold without reducing customer facing hours.  We will continue to
monitor our service levels closely throughout 2009 to ensure these changes to
our staffing model do not negatively impact customer service. 

We have
also reviewed our physical inventory process to identify process improvements
and cost savings.  The majority of our stores has historically had two
physical inventories per year; however, during the past several years our
inventory shrink control initiatives have yielded solid results.  As a
result, we began a test of conducting one physical inventory in our
better-performing stores.  Over the past four years, we have slowly
increased the number of stores with one physical inventory and have experienced
no noticeable increases in those stores  shrink results.  Therefore,
we are moving additional stores to one inventory per year in 2009, which will
save approximately $10 million. 

As we
have further penetrated U.S. markets, our increased store density has allowed us
to leverage our district and regional staff.  During the past two
years, we have added 268 stores but only one region and 15 districts, increasing
the average store count per district from eight to nine and the average store
count per region from 66 to 75.  Additionally, we have expanded the
coverage of our area operations and area loss prevention managers, increasing
the average number of stores covered by each manager by more than three stores,
rather than adding headcount in these positions.  We are confident
that we will continue to have the oversight needed to ensure consistent and
effective application of our policies and procedures, while reducing
expenses. 

Over the
past three years, we have managed our corporate staffing, primarily through
attrition, to match the slowing sales environment.  By filling only
the most needed positions, we have effectively had a corporate-level hiring
freeze for nearly two years.  As a result, we have frozen or left
unfilled almost 400 positions at the corporate office in 2008.  As a
measure of our efforts to ensure appropriate management of our corporate
infrastructure, over the past two years our store count and selling square
footage have each grown by over 19% while our corporate staff has grown by less
than 5%. 

Lastly,
over the past two years, we have reduced our marketing spend by $84
million.  This was the result of significant reductions in mass media
as the Lowe s brand gained national awareness and market share, and more
targeted advertising, including the USPS New Movers program and various
multicultural programs. 

Capturing
Profitable Market Share 

Our goal
remains to drive profitable market share gains during these challenging
times.  According to third-party estimates, we gained approximately
300 basis points of total store unit market share during the home improvement
industry downturn which began three years ago.  This is evidence of
our compelling product offering, commitment to customer service and our ability
to capitalize on the evolving competitive landscape. 

We
continue to refine and improve our  Customer Focused  program, which measures
each store s performance relative to key components of customer satisfaction,
including selling skills, delivery, Installed Sales and checkout
experience.  Our customer service scores, measured by our quarterly
Customer Focused process, have never been higher.  We know that the
foundation of our success is our people, and this difficult economic environment
has provided us the opportunity to both hire and retain great
people.  Over the past two years, we have seen the average tenure of a
Lowe s store manager increase by almost eight months from an average of slightly
over seven years to an average of almost eight years.  Additionally,
the average tenure of the other members of the store management team has
increased nearly nine months over that time period.  We are confident
that we will continue to build a solid and experienced foundation to provide
excellent service and drive sales today, and when the economic environment
begins to improve. 

OPERATIONS 

The
following table sets forth the percentage relationship to net sales of each line
item of the consolidated statements of earnings, as well as the percentage
change in dollar amounts from the prior year. This table should be read in
conjunction with the following discussion and analysis and the consolidated
financial statements, including the related notes to the consolidated financial
statements. 

1 
 We define a comparable store
as a store that has been open longer than 13 months.      A store that is identified for
relocation is no longer considered comparable one month prior to its
relocation.  The relocated store must then    remain
open longer than 13 months to be considered comparable. The comparable store
sales increase for 2006 included in the preceding table was calculated using
sales for a comparable 52-week period, since fiscal year 2005 contained 53
weeks. 

         2   We define average ticket as net
sales divided by the total number of customer transactions.  

         3   We define average store size
selling square feet as sales floor square feet divided by the number of stores
open at the end of the period.  

         4
  Return on average
assets is defined as net earnings divided by average total assets for the last
five quarters.  

         5   Return on average shareholders 
equity is defined as net earnings divided by average shareholders  equity for
the last five quarters.  

Fiscal
2008 Compared to Fiscal 2007 

Net sales    Reflective of the
challenging sales environment, net sales decreased 0.1% to $48.2 billion in
2008.  Comparable store sales declined 7.2% in 2008 compared to a
decline of 5.1% in 2007.  Total customer transactions increased 2.8%
compared to 2007, driven by our store expansion program.  However,
average ticket decreased 2.8% to $65.15, as a result of fewer project
sales.  Comparable store customer transactions declined 4.1%, and
comparable store average ticket declined 3.1% compared to 2007. 

The sales
weakness we continued to experience was most pronounced in larger discretionary
projects and was the result of dramatic reductions in consumer
spending.  Certain of our project categories, including cabinets  
countertops and millwork, had double-digit declines in comparable store sales
for the year.  These two project categories together with flooring
were approximately 17% of our total sales in 2008.  This is comparable
to 2002 levels, after having peaked at nearly 18.5% in 2006.  We also
experienced continued weakness in certain of our style categories, such as
fashion plumbing, lighting and windows   walls.  These product
categories are also typically more discretionary in nature and delivered
double-digit declines in comparable store sales for the year. 

Due to
consumers  hesitancy to take on larger discretionary projects, we experienced
mixed results within Specialty Sales during the year.  Special Order
Sales delivered a 9.5% decline in comparable store sales, due to continued
weakness in cabinets   countertops, fashion plumbing, lighting and
millwork.  Installed Sales performed above our average comparable
store sales change with a decline of 6.0% for 2008.  However, we
experienced low-double-digit declines in comparable store sales in the third and
fourth quarters of 2008 as the economic environment
worsened.  Commercial Business Customer sales have continued to
deliver above-average comparable store sales throughout this industry downturn
as a result of our targeted efforts to focus on the professional tradesperson,
property maintenance professional and the repair/remodeler. 

We
experienced solid sales performance due to increased demand for
hurricane-related products, which helped drive a comparable store sales increase
in building materials and above-average comparable store sales changes in
outdoor power equipment and hardware.  Favorable comparisons due to
last year s drought conditions contributed to above-average 

comparable
store sales changes in our lawn   landscape products and nursery
categories.  The continued willingness of homeowners to take on
smaller projects to improve their outdoor space and maintain their homes also
contributed to the above-average comparable store sales change in our nursery
category, as well as in paint and home environment.  Other categories
that performed above our average comparable store sales change included
appliances and rough plumbing, while flooring and seasonal living performed at
approximately the overall corporate average. 

From a
geographic market perspective, we experienced a wide range of comparable store
sales performance during the first three quarters of 2008.  Markets in
the Western U.S. and Florida, which include some of the markets most pressured
by the declining housing market, experienced double-digit declines in comparable
store sales during each of the first three quarters of the
year.  Contrasting those markets we saw solid sales results in our
markets in Texas, Oklahoma, certain areas of the Northeast and parts of the
upper Midwest and Ohio Valley during the same period.  However, in the
fourth quarter of 2008, the economic pressures on consumers intensified as
unemployment swelled, resulting in a further decline in consumer confidence and
consumer spending.  This impacted all of our geographic markets, and
resulted in a comparable store sales decline of 9.9% for the fourth quarter,
compared to a decline of 7.2% for the year. 

Gross margin -  For 2008,
gross margin of 34.21% represented a 43-basis-point decrease from
2007.  This decrease was primarily driven by carpet installation and
other promotions, which negatively impacted gross margin by approximately 21
basis points.  We also saw a decline of approximately 14 basis points
due to higher fuel prices during the first half of the year and de-leverage in
distribution fixed costs.  Additionally, markdowns associated with our
decision to exit wallpaper reduced gross margin by approximately three basis
points.  The de-leverage from these factors was partially offset by a
positive impact of approximately 12 basis points from lower inventory shrink and
approximately four basis points attributable to the mix of products
sold. 

For the
fourth quarter of 2008, gross margin of 33.73% represented a 115-basis-point
decrease from the fourth quarter of 2007.  This decrease was driven by
a number of factors.  We experienced elevated promotional activity in
many product categories as competitors initiated inventory-clearing promotions
in the quarter.  To protect our customer franchise and our price
image, we matched various competitor offers during the quarter which negatively
impacted gross margin by approximately 50 basis points.  In addition,
our efforts to clear seasonal inventory in our seasonal living and tools
categories impacted gross margin by approximately 30 and 20 basis points,
respectively.  Also, markdowns associated with our decision to exit
wallpaper reduced gross margin by approximately 15 basis
points.  Higher fuel prices increased cost of goods sold and
negatively impacted gross margin by approximately 10 basis
points.  Slightly offsetting these items was a positive impact of 14
basis points from lower inventory shrink. 

SG A -  The increase in
SG A as a percentage of sales from 2007 to 2008 was primarily driven by
de-leverage of 70 basis points in store payroll. As sales per store declined,
additional stores met the base staffing hours threshold, which increased the
proportion of fixed-to-total payroll.  Although this created
short-term pressure on earnings, in the long-term it ensures that we maintain
the high service levels that customers have come to expect from
Lowe s.  The resulting de-leverage in store payroll was partially
offset by leverage of 31 basis points of in-store service expense, due to the
shifting of certain tasks from third-party, in-store service groups to store
employees.  The offsetting impact of these two factors resulted in net
de-leverage of 39 basis points.  We  experienced de-leverage
of approximately 21 basis points in fixed expenses such as property taxes,
utilities and rent during the year as a result of softer
sales.  Additionally, we experienced 11 basis points of de-leverage
associated with the write-off of new store projects that we are no longer
pursuing and a long-lived asset impairment charge for open stores.  We
also experienced de-leverage of approximately nine basis points in bonus expense
attributable to higher achievement against performance targets this year, and
de-leverage of seven basis points in retirement plan expenses due to changes in
the 401(k) Plan that increased our matching contribution relative to the prior
year. 

Store opening costs -  Store
opening costs, which include payroll and supply costs incurred prior to store
opening as well as grand opening advertising costs, totaled $102 million in
2008, compared to $141 million in 2007.  These costs are associated
with the opening of 115 new stores in 2008, as compared with the opening of 153
stores in 2007 (149 new and four relocated).  Store opening costs for
stores opened during the year averaged approximately $0.8 million and $0.9
million per store in 2008 and 2007, respectively.  Because store
opening costs are expensed as incurred, the timing of expense recognition
fluctuates based on the timing of store openings. 

Depreciation -  Depreciation
de-leveraged 36 basis points as a percentage of sales in 2008.  This
de-leverage was driven by the addition of 115 new stores in 2008 and the
comparable store sales decline.  Property, less accumulated
depreciation, increased to $22.7 billion at January 30, 2009, compared to $21.4
billion at February 1, 2008.  At January 30, 2009, we owned 88% of our
stores, compared to 87% at February 1, 2008, which includes stores on leased
land. 

Interest -  Net interest
expense is comprised of the following: 

Interest
expense increased primarily as a result of the September 2007 $1.3 billion debt
issuance and lower capitalized interest associated with fewer stores under
construction. 

Income tax provision -  Our
effective income tax rate was 37.4% in 2008 versus 37.7% in 2007.  The
decrease in the effective tax rate was due to an increase in federal and state
tax credits as a percentage of taxable income in 2008 versus the prior
year. 

Fiscal
2007 Compared to Fiscal 2006 

Net sales    Sales increased
2.9% to $48.3 billion in 2007.  The increase in sales was driven
primarily by our store expansion program.  We opened 153 stores in
2007, including four relocations, and ended the year with 1,534 stores in the
U.S. and Canada.  However, a challenging sales environment led to a
decline in comparable store sales of 5.1% in 2007 versus flat comparable store
sales in 2006.  Total customer transactions increased 5.9% compared to
2006, while average ticket decreased 2.8% to $67.05, a reflection of fewer
project sales.  Comparable store customer transactions declined 1.8%,
and comparable store average ticket declined 3.3% compared to 2006. 

Comparable
store sales declined 6.3%, 2.6%, 4.3% and 7.6% in the first, second, third and
fourth quarters of 2007, respectively.  Our industry was pressured by
the soft housing market, the tight mortgage market, continued deflationary
pressures from lumber and plywood, and unseasonable weather, including the
exceptional drought in certain areas of the U.S.  From a geographic
market perspective, we continued to see dramatic differences in
performance.  Our worst-performing markets included those areas that
had been most impacted by the dynamics of the housing market, including
California and Florida.  These areas and the Gulf Coast reduced our
comparable store sales by approximately 250 basis points for the
year.  Contrasting with those markets, we saw relatively better
comparable store sales performance in our markets in the central U.S., which
have had less impact from the housing market. Two of these markets, which
include areas of Texas and Oklahoma, delivered positive comparable store sales
in 2007 and had a positive impact on our comparable store sales of approximately
100 basis points for the year. 

Reflective
of the difficult sales environment, only two of our 19 product categories
experienced comparable store sales increases in 2007.  The categories
that performed above our average comparable store sales change included rough
plumbing, lawn   landscape products, hardware, paint, lighting, nursery,
fashion plumbing and appliances.  In addition, outdoor power equipment
performed at approximately our average comparable store sales change in
2007.  Despite the difficult sales environment, we were able to gain
unit market share of 80 basis points for the total store in calendar year 2007,
according to third-party estimates.  Continued strong unit market
share gains indicate that we are providing great service and value to
customers. 

Our Big 3
Specialty Sales initiatives had mixed results in 2007.  Growth in
Installed Sales was 2.8% and growth in Special Order Sales was 0.5% in 2007,
while comparable store sales declined 5.5% for Installed Sales and 8.1% for
Special Order Sales as a result of the weakness in bigger-ticket and more
complex projects.  For the year, Installed Sales was approximately 6%
of our total sales and Special Order Sales was approximately 8%.  In
contrast, total sales growth for Commercial Business Customers outpaced the
company average. 

Gross margin -  For 2007,
gross margin of 34.64% represented a 12-basis-point increase over
2006.  This increase as a percentage of sales was primarily driven by
13 basis points related to positive product mix shifts, 11 basis points related
to increased penetration of imported goods and five basis points of improved
inventory shrink results.  This leverage was partially offset by
de-leverage of 13 basis points in transportation costs primarily attributable to
rising fuel costs, and seven basis points as a result of start-up costs for new
distribution facilities. 

SG A -  The increase in
SG A as a percentage of sales from 2006 to 2007 was primarily driven by
de-leverage of 67 basis points in store payroll as a result of the weak sales
environment. As sales per store declined, stores were meeting our minimum
staffing hours threshold which increased the proportion of fixed-to-total
payroll.  In addition, we saw de-leverage of eight basis points in
retirement plan expenses as a result of changes to the 401(k) Plan to replace
the performance match program with an increased baseline match.  No
performance match was earned in 2006.  We also had de-leverage in
fixed expenses such as rent, utilities and property taxes as a result of softer
sales.  These items were partially offset by leverage of 23 basis
points in advertising expense, primarily attributable to reduced spending on tab
production and distribution, and national television advertising. 

Store opening costs -  Store
opening costs, which include payroll and supply costs incurred prior to store
opening as well as grand opening advertising costs, totaled $141 million in
2007, compared to $146 million in 2006.  These costs are associated
with the opening of 153 stores in 2007 (149 new and four relocated), as compared
with the opening of 155 stores in 2006 (151 new and four
relocated).  Store opening costs for stores opened during the year in
the U.S. averaged approximately $0.8 million and $0.9 million per store in 2007
and 2006, respectively.  Store opening costs for stores opened during
the year in Canada averaged approximately $2.4 million per store in 2007 as a
result of additional expenses necessary to enter a new
market.  Because store opening costs are expensed as incurred, the
timing of expense recognition fluctuates based on the timing of store
openings. 

Depreciation -  Depreciation
de-leveraged 35 basis points as a percentage of sales in 2007.  This
de-leverage was driven by the opening of 153 stores in 2007 and negative
comparable store sales.  Property, less accumulated depreciation,
increased to $21.4 billion at February 1, 2008, compared to $19.0 billion at
February 2, 2007.  At February 1, 2008, we owned 87% of our stores,
compared to 86% at February 2, 2007, which includes stores on leased
land. 

Interest -  Net interest
expense is comprised of the following: 

Interest
expense increased primarily as a result of the September 2007 $1.3 billion debt
issuance and the October 2006 $1 billion debt issuance, partially offset by an
increase in capitalized interest. 

Income tax provision -  Our
effective income tax rate was 37.7% in 2007 versus 37.9% in 2006.  The
decrease in the effective tax rate was due to a continuation of the effect of
increased federal tax credits associated with Welfare to Work and Work
Opportunity Tax Credit programs as well as increased state tax credits related
to our investments in employees and property. 

FINANCIAL
CONDITION, LIQUIDITY AND CAPITAL RESOURCES 

Inventory 

At
January 30, 2009, merchandise inventory was $8.2 billion compared to $7.6
billion at February 1, 2008, an increase of 7.9%.  The increase was
primarily due to sales floor square footage growth of 7.2%, the timing
associated with in-transit inventory, and an increase in distribution center
inventory associated with the opening of our fourteenth RDC in Pittston,
Pennsylvania.  At January 30, 2009, we also had already stocked or
were in the process of stocking new stores scheduled to open in early
2009.  We opened 13 new stores in the first few weeks of 2009 compared
to four in the first few weeks of 2008.  Comparable store inventory
was down 2.9% at January 30, 2009 compared to the prior year.  We took
aggressive 

steps to
sell-through seasonal inventory in the fourth quarter of 2008, improving our
inventory position entering 2009, and we have taken a cautious approach when
building our spring seasonal inventory as we anticipate a continuation of the
challenging sales environment. 

Cash
Flows 

The
following table summarizes the components of the consolidated statements of cash
flows. This table should be read in conjunction with the following discussion
and analysis and the consolidated financial statements, including the related
notes to the consolidated financial statements: 

Cash
flows from operating activities continue to provide the primary source of our
liquidity.  The change in cash flows from operating activities in 2008
compared to 2007 resulted primarily from decreased net earnings and an increase
in inventory.  This change was partially offset by an increase in
accounts payable, which is a result of our continued efforts to improve vendor
payment terms.  The change in cash flows from operating activities in
2007 compared to 2006 resulted primarily from decreased net earnings and an
increase in inventory as a result of our store expansion program, partially
offset by an increase in deferred revenue associated with our extended warranty
program. 

The
primary component of net cash used in investing activities continues to be
opening new stores, investing in existing stores through resets and
remerchandising, and investing in our distribution center and corporate
infrastructure, including enhancements to our information technology
systems.  Cash acquisitions of property were $3.3 billion in 2008,
$4.0 billion in 2007 and $3.9 billion in 2006.  The January 30, 2009,
retail selling space of 187 million square feet represented a 7.2% increase over
February 1, 2008.  The February 1, 2008, retail selling space of 174
million square feet represented a 10.9% increase over February 2,
2007. 

The
change in cash flows from financing activities in 2008 compared to 2007
primarily related to a $2.9 billion decrease in cash flows associated with net
borrowing activities, partially offset by a $2.3 billion decrease in repurchases
under our share repurchase program.  The change in cash flows from
financing activities in 2007 compared to 2006 resulted primarily from a $1.3
billion increase in cash flows associated with net borrowing
activities.  This was partially offset by a $538 million increase in
share repurchases and an increase in dividends paid from $0.18 per share in 2006
to $0.29 per share in 2007.  The ratio of debt to equity plus debt was
25.1% and 29.3% as of January 30, 2009, and February 1, 2008,
respectively. 

Sources
of Liquidity 

In
addition to our cash flows from operations, additional liquidity is provided by
our short-term borrowing facilities.  We have a $1.75 billion senior
credit facility that expires in June 2012.  The senior credit facility
supports our commercial paper and revolving credit programs.  The
senior credit facility has a $500 million letter of credit
sublimit.  Amounts outstanding under letters of credit reduce the
amount available for borrowing under the senior credit
facility.  Borrowings made are unsecured and are priced at fixed rates
based upon market conditions at the time of funding in accordance with the terms
of the senior credit facility. The senior credit facility contains certain
restrictive covenants, which include maintenance of a debt leverage ratio, as
defined by the senior credit facility.  We were in compliance with
those covenants at January 30, 2009.  Nineteen banking institutions
are participating in the senior credit facility.  As of January 30,
2009, there was $789 million outstanding under the commercial paper program, all
of which was issued in the fourth quarter. 

The
weighted-average interest rate on the outstanding commercial paper was
0.84%.  As of January 30, 2009, there were no letters of credit
outstanding under the senior credit facility. 

In
addition, we had standby and documentary letters of credit issued through other
banking arrangements which totaled $224 million as of January 30, 2009, and $299
million as of February 1, 2008. Commitment fees ranging from 0.225% to 0.50% per
annum are paid on the letters of credit amounts outstanding. 

We had a
Canadian dollar (C$) denominated credit facility in the amount of C$200 million
that expired March 30, 2009.  The outstanding borrowings at expiration
were repaid with net cash provided by operating activities.  This
credit facility was established for the purpose of funding the construction of
retail stores and for working capital and other general corporate purposes in
Canada.  Borrowings made were unsecured and were priced at fixed rates
based upon market conditions at the time of funding in accordance with the terms
of the credit facility.  The credit facility contained certain
restrictive covenants, which included maintenance of a debt leverage ratio as
defined by the credit facility.  We were in compliance with those
covenants at January 30, 2009.  Three banking institutions
participated in the credit facility.  As of January 30, 2009, there
was C$199 million, or the equivalent of $162 million, outstanding under the
credit facility.  The weighted-average interest rate on the short-term
borrowings was 2.65%. 

We also
have a C$ denominated credit facility in the amount of C$50 million that
provides revolving credit support for our Canadian operations.  This
uncommitted credit facility provides us with the ability to make unsecured
borrowings which are priced at fixed rates based upon market conditions at the
time of funding in accordance with the terms of the credit
facility.  As of January 30, 2009, there was C$44 million, or the
equivalent of $36 million, outstanding under the credit facility.  The
weighted-average interest rate on the short-term borrowings was
1.60%. 

Our debt
ratings at January 30, 2009, were as follows: 

Current
      Debt Ratings 

S P 

Moody s 

Fitch 

Commercial
      Paper 

A1 

P1 

F1 

Senior
      Debt 

A+ 

A1 

A+ 

Outlook 

Stable 

Stable 

Negative 

We
believe that net cash provided by operating and financing activities will be
adequate for our expansion plans and for our other operating requirements over
the next 12 months.  The availability of funds through the issuance of
commercial paper or new debt or the borrowing cost of these funds could be
adversely affected due to a debt rating downgrade, which we do not expect, or a
deterioration of certain financial ratios.  In addition, continuing
volatility in the global capital markets may affect our ability to access those
markets for additional borrowings or increase costs associated with those
borrowings.  There are no provisions in any agreements that would
require early cash settlement of existing debt or leases as a result of a
downgrade in our debt rating or a decrease in our stock price. 

Cash
Requirements 

Capital
expenditures 

Our 2009
capital budget is approximately $2.5 billion, inclusive of approximately $300
million of lease commitments, resulting in a net cash outflow of $2.2 billion in
2009.  Approximately 72% of this planned commitment is for store
expansion.  Our expansion plans for 2009 consist of 60 to 70 new
stores and are expected to increase sales floor square footage by approximately
4%.  Approximately 98% of the 2009 projects will be owned, which includes
approximately 35% ground-leased properties.  

At
January 30, 2009, we owned and operated 14 RDCs.  We opened a new RDC
in Pittston, Pennsylvania, in 2008.  At January 30, 2009, we also
operated 15 FDCs for the handling of lumber, building materials and other
long-length items.  We opened a new FDC in Purvis, Mississippi, in
2008.  We are confident that our current distribution network has the
capacity to ensure that our stores remain in stock and that customer demand is
met. 

Debt
and capital 

On June
30, 2008, we redeemed for cash approximately $19 million principal amount, $14
million carrying amount, of our convertible notes issued in February 2001, which
represented all remaining notes outstanding of such issue, at a price equal to
the sum of the issuance price plus accrued original issue discount of such notes
as of the redemption date ($730.71 per note).  From their issuance
through the redemption, principal amounts of $986 million, or approximately
  98%, of
our February 2001 convertible notes were converted from debt to
equity.  During 2008, an insignificant amount was converted from debt
to equity. 

On June
25, 2008, we completed a single open-market repurchase of approximately $187
million principal amount, $164 million carrying amount, of our senior
convertible notes issued in October 2001 at a price of $875.73 per
note.  We subsequently redeemed for cash on June 30, 2008,
approximately $392 million principal amount, $343 million carrying amount, of
our senior convertible notes issued in October 2001, which represented all
remaining notes outstanding of such issue, at a price equal to the sum of the
issuance price plus accrued original issue discount of such notes as of the
redemption date ($875.73 per note).  From their issuance through the
redemption, an insignificant amount of our senior convertible notes had
converted from debt to equity. 

Our share
repurchase program is implemented through purchases made from time to time
either in the open market or through private transactions.  Shares
purchased under the share repurchase program are retired and returned to
authorized and unissued status.  During 2008, there were no share
repurchases under the share repurchase program.  As of January 30,
2009, we had remaining authorization through fiscal 2009 under the share
repurchase program of $2.2 billion. 

Our
quarterly cash dividend was increased in 2008 to $0.085 per share, a 6% increase
over the prior year. 

OFF-BALANCE
SHEET ARRANGEMENTS 

Other
than in connection with executing operating leases, we do not have any
off-balance sheet financing that has, or is reasonably likely to have, a
material, current or future effect on our financial condition, cash flows,
results of operations, liquidity, capital expenditures or capital
resources. 

CONTRACTUAL
OBLIGATIONS AND COMMERCIAL COMMITMENTS 

The
following table summarizes our significant contractual obligations and
commercial commitments: 

1     Amounts do not include taxes, common
area maintenance, insurance or contingent rent because these amounts have
historically been insignificant.  

2 
 Represents contracts for
purchases of merchandise inventory, property and construction of buildings, as
well as commitments related to certain marketing and information technology
programs.  

         3 
 Letters of credit are issued
for the purchase of import merchandise inventories, real estate and construction
contracts, and insurance programs.  

At
January 30, 2009, approximately $24 million of the reserve for uncertain tax
positions (including penalties and interest) was classified as a current
liability.  At this time, we are unable to make a reasonably reliable
estimate of the timing of payments in individual years beyond 12 months, due to
uncertainties in the timing of the effective settlement of tax
positions. 

LOWE S
BUSINESS OUTLOOK 

As of
February 20, 2009, the date of our fourth quarter 2008 earnings release, we
expected to open 60 to 70 stores during 2009, resulting in total square footage
growth of approximately 4%.  We expected total sales in 2009 to range
from a decline of 2% to an increase of 2% and comparable store sales to decline
4% to 8%.  Earnings before interest and taxes as a percentage of sales
(operating margin) was expected to decline approximately 170 basis points. In
addition, store opening costs were expected to be approximately $50 million.
Diluted earnings per share of $1.04 to $1.20 were expected for the fiscal year
ending January 29, 2010.  Our outlook for 2009 does not assume any
share repurchases. 

CRITICAL
ACCOUNTING POLICIES AND ESTIMATES 

The
preparation of the consolidated financial statements and notes to consolidated
financial statements presented in this annual report requires us to make
estimates that affect the reported amounts of assets, liabilities, sales and
expenses, and related disclosures of contingent assets and
liabilities.  We base these estimates on historical results and
various other assumptions believed to be reasonable, all of which form the basis
for making estimates concerning the carrying values of assets and liabilities
that are not readily available from other sources.  Actual results may
differ from these estimates. 

Our
significant accounting policies are described in Note 1 to the consolidated
financial statements. We believe that the following accounting policies affect
the most significant estimates and management judgments used in preparing the
consolidated financial statements. 

Merchandise
Inventory 

Description 

      We record
an inventory reserve for the anticipated loss associated with selling
inventories below cost.  This reserve is based on our current
knowledge with respect to inventory levels, sales trends and historical
experience.  During 2008, our reserve decreased approximately $9
million to $58 million as of January 30, 2009.  We also record an
inventory reserve for the estimated shrinkage between physical
inventories.  This reserve is based primarily on actual shrinkage
results from previous physical inventories.  During 2008, the
inventory shrinkage reserve decreased approximately $8 million to $129 million
as of January 30, 2009. 

Judgments
and uncertainties involved in the estimate 

      We do not
believe that our merchandise inventories are subject to significant risk of
obsolescence in the near term, and we have the ability to adjust purchasing
practices based on anticipated sales trends and general economic conditions.
However, changes in consumer purchasing patterns or a deterioration in product
quality could result in the need for additional reserves.  Likewise,
changes in the estimated shrink reserve may be necessary, based on the timing
and results of physical inventories.  We also apply judgment in the
determination of levels of non-productive inventory and assumptions about net
realizable value. 

Effect
if actual results differ from assumptions 

      We have
not made any material changes in the methodology used to establish our inventory
valuation or the related reserves during the past three fiscal
years.  We believe that we have sufficient current and historical
knowledge to record reasonable estimates for both of these inventory
reserves.  However, it is possible that actual results could differ
from recorded reserves.  A 10% change in our obsolete inventory
reserve would have affected net earnings by approximately 

$4 million for
2008.  A 10% change in our estimated shrinkage reserve would have
affected net earnings by approximately $8 million for 2008. 

Long-Lived
Asset Impairment 

Description 
 
      We review
the carrying amounts of long-lived assets whenever events or changes in
circumstances indicate that the carrying amount may not be
recoverable. 

For
long-lived assets held-for-use, a potential impairment has occurred if projected
future undiscounted cash flows expected to result from the use and eventual
disposition of the assets are less than the carrying value of the
assets.  An impairment loss is recognized when the carrying amount of
the long-lived asset is not recoverable and exceeds its fair
value.  We estimate fair value based on projected future discounted
cash flows from the use and eventual disposition of the assets. 

For
long-lived assets to be abandoned, we consider the asset to be disposed of when
it ceases to be used.  Until it ceases to be used, we continue to
classify the assets as held-for-use and test for potential impairment
accordingly. 

For
long-lived assets held-for-sale, an impairment charge is recorded if the
carrying amount of the asset exceeds its fair value less cost to
sell.  Fair value is based on a market appraisal or a valuation
technique that considers various factors, including local market
conditions. 

We
recorded long-lived asset impairment charges of $21 million during 2008,
including $16 million for operating stores and $5 million for relocated stores,
closed stores and other excess properties. 

Judgments
and uncertainties involved in the estimate 

      Our
impairment loss calculations require us to apply judgment in estimating expected
future cash flows, including estimated sales, margin and expense growth rates
and assumptions about market performance.  We also apply judgment in
estimating asset fair values, including the selection of a discount rate that
reflects the risk inherent in our current business model. 

Effect
if actual results differ from assumptions 

      We have
not made any material changes in the methodology used to establish the carrying
amounts of long-lived assets during the past three fiscal years.  If
actual results are not consistent with the assumptions and judgments used in
estimating future cash flows and asset fair values, actual impairment losses
could vary positively or negatively from estimated impairment
losses.  Of our 1,649 operating stores, only 15 stores were at risk
for impairment.  We recorded impairment charges on three stores whose
carrying amounts were deemed not recoverable and exceeded the respective fair
values.  A 10% decrease in the estimated cash flows associated with
long-lived assets evaluated for impairment would have decreased net earnings by
approximately $7 million for 2008.  A 10% increase in the estimated
cash flows associated with long-lived assets evaluated for impairment would have
increased net earnings by approximately $4 million for 2008. 

Self-Insurance 

Description 

      We are
self-insured for certain losses relating to workers  compensation; automobile;
property; general and product liability ;  extended
warranty;  and
certain medical and dental  claims.  Self-insurance claims filed
and claims incurred but not reported are accrued based upon our estimates of the
discounted ultimate cost for self-insured claims incurred using actuarial
assumptions followed in the insurance industry and historical
experience.  During 2008, our self-insurance liability increased
approximately $80 million to $751 million as of January 30, 2009. 

Judgments
and uncertainties involved in the estimate 

      These
estimates are subject to changes in the regulatory environment; utilized
discount rate; payroll; sales; and vehicle units; as well as the frequency, lag
and severity of claims. 

Effect
if actual results differ from assumptions 

      We have
not made any material changes in the methodology used to establish our
self-insurance liability during the past three fiscal years.  Although
we believe that we have the ability to reasonably estimate losses related to
claims, it is possible that actual results could differ from recorded
self-insurance liabilities.  A 10% change in our self-insurance
liability would have affected net earnings by approximately $47 million for
2008.  A 100 basis point change in our discount rate would have
affected net earnings by approximately $13 million for 2008. 
 
      Revenue
Recognition 

Description 

      See Note
1 to the consolidated financial statements for a complete discussion of our
revenue recognition policies.  The following accounting estimates
relating to revenue recognition require management to make assumptions and apply
judgment regarding the effects of future events that cannot be determined with
certainty. 

Revenues
from stored value cards, which include gift cards and returned merchandise
credits, are deferred and recognized when the cards are redeemed.  We
recognize income from unredeemed stored value cards at the point at which
redemption becomes remote.  Our stored value cards have no expiration date
or dormancy fees.  Therefore, to determine when redemption is remote,
we analyze an aging of the unredeemed cards based on the date of last stored
value card use. The deferred revenue associated with outstanding stored
value cards decreased $39 million to $346 million as of January 30,
2009.  We recognized $21 million of income from unredeemed stored
value cards in 2008. 

We sell
separately-priced extended warranty contracts under a Lowe s-branded program for
which we are ultimately self-insured.  We recognize revenues from
extended warranty sales on a straight-line basis over the respective contract
term due to a lack of sufficient historical evidence indicating that costs of
performing services under the contracts are incurred on other than a
straight-line basis.  Extended warranty contract terms primarily range
from one to four years from the date of purchase or the end of the
manufacturer s warranty, as applicable.  We consistently group and
evaluate extended warranty contracts based on the characteristics of the
underlying products and the coverage provided in order to monitor for expected
losses.  A loss would be recognized if the expected costs of
performing services under the contracts exceeded the amount of unamortized
acquisition costs and related deferred revenue associated with the
contracts.  Deferred revenues associated with the extended warranty
contracts increased $72 million to $479 million as of January 30,
2009. 

We record
a reserve for anticipated merchandise returns through a reduction of sales and
cost of sales in the period that the related sales are recorded. We use
historical return levels to estimate return rates.  This, along with
historical margin rates, is applied to sales and cost of sales during the
estimated average return period. During 2008, the merchandise returns reserve
decreased $2 million to $49 million as of January 30, 2009. 

Judgments
and uncertainties involved in the estimate 

      For
stored value cards, there is judgment inherent in our evaluation of when
redemption becomes remote and, therefore, when the related income is
recognized. 

For
extended warranties, there is judgment inherent in our evaluation of expected
losses as a result of our methodology for grouping and evaluating extended
warranty contracts and from the actuarial determination of the estimated cost of
the contracts.  There is also judgment inherent in our determination
of the recognition pattern of costs of performing services under these
contracts. 

For the
reserve for anticipated merchandise returns, there is judgment inherent in our
estimates of historical return levels and margin rates, and in the determination
of the average return period. 

Effect
if actual results differ from assumptions 

      We have
not made any material changes in the methodology used to recognize income
related to unredeemed stored value cards during the past three fiscal
years.  We do not believe there is a reasonable likelihood that there
will be a material change in the future estimates or assumptions we use to
recognize income related to unredeemed stored value cards.  However,
if actual results are not consistent with our estimates or assumptions, we may
incur additional income or expense.  A 10% change in the estimate of
unredeemed stored value cards for which redemption is considered remote would
have affected net earnings by approximately $4 million in 2008. 

We have
not made any material changes in the methodology used to recognize revenue on
our extended warranty contracts during the past three fiscal
years.  We currently do not anticipate incurring any losses on our
extended warranty contracts.  Although we believe that we have the
ability to adequately monitor and estimate expected losses under the extended
warranty contracts, it is possible that actual results could differ from our
estimates.  In addition, if future evidence indicates that the costs
of performing services under these contracts are incurred on other than a
straight-line   basis,
the timing of revenue recognition under these contracts could
change.  A 10% change in the amount of revenue recognized in 2008
under these contracts would have affected net earnings by approximately $8
million. 

We have
not made any material changes in the methodology used to estimate sales returns
during the past three fiscal years.  We believe we have sufficient
current and historical knowledge to record reasonable estimates of sales
returns.  However, it is possible that actual returns could differ
from our estimates.  A 10% change in actual return rates would have
affected net earnings for 2008 by approximately $3 million.  A 10%
change in the average return period would have affected net earnings for 2008 by
approximately $2 million. 

Vendor
Funds 

Description 

      We
receive funds from vendors in the normal course of business, principally as a
result of purchase volumes, sales, early payments or promotions of vendors 
products. 

Vendor
funds are treated as a reduction of inventory cost, unless they represent a
reimbursement of specific, incremental and identifiable costs that we incurred
to sell the vendor s product. Substantially all of the vendor funds that we
receive do not meet the specific, incremental and identifiable criteria.
Therefore, we treat the majority of these funds as a reduction in the cost of
inventory as the amounts are accrued, and recognize these funds as a reduction
of cost of sales when the inventory is sold. 

Judgments
and uncertainties involved in the estimate 

      Based on
the provisions of the vendor agreements in place, we develop vendor fund accrual
rates by estimating the point at which we will have completed our performance
under the agreement, and the agreed-upon amounts will be earned.  Due
to the complexity and diversity of the individual vendor agreements, we perform
analyses and review historical trends throughout the year to ensure the amounts
earned are appropriately recorded.  As a part of these analyses, we
validate our accrual rates based on actual purchase trends and apply those rates
to actual purchase volumes to determine the amount of funds accrued and
receivable from the vendor.  Amounts accrued throughout the year could
be impacted if actual purchase volumes differ from projected annual purchase
volumes, especially in the case of programs that provide for increased funding
when graduated purchase volumes are met. 

Effect
if actual results differ from assumptions 

      We have
not made any material changes in the methodology used to recognize vendor funds
during the past three fiscal years.  If actual results are not
consistent with the assumptions and estimates used, we could be exposed to
additional adjustments that could positively or negatively impact gross margin
and inventory.  However, substantially all receivables associated with
these activities are collected within the following fiscal year and therefore do
not require subjective long-term estimates.  Adjustments to gross
margin and inventory in the following fiscal year have historically not been
material. 

QUANTITATIVE AND QUALITATIVE DISCLOSURES ABOUT
MARKET RISK  

Interest
Rate Risk 

Our
primary market risk exposure is the potential loss arising from the impact of
changing interest rates on long-term debt.  Our policy is to monitor
the interest rate risks associated with this debt, and we believe any
significant risks could be offset by accessing variable-rate instruments
available through our lines of credit.  The following tables summarize
our market risks associated with long-term debt, excluding capital leases and
other.  The tables present principal cash outflows and related
interest rates by year of maturity, excluding unamortized original issue
discounts as of January 30, 2009, and February 1, 2008.  The variable
interest rate is based on the rate in effect at the end of the year
presented.  The fair values included below were determined using
quoted market rates or interest rates that are currently available to us for
debt with similar terms and remaining maturities. 

Credit
Risk 

Sales
generated through our proprietary credit cards are not reflected in our
receivables.  General Electric Company and its subsidiaries (GE) own
the total portfolio and perform all program-related services.  The
agreements provide that we receive funds from or make payments to GE based upon
the expected future profits or losses from our proprietary credit cards after
taking into account the cost of capital, certain costs of the proprietary credit
card program and, subject to contractual limits, the program s actual loss
experience.  Actual losses and operating costs in excess of
contractual limits are absorbed by GE.  During 2008 and 2007, costs
associated with our proprietary credit card program did not have a material
effect on our results of operations.  Although we anticipate reaching
our contractual limits for actual losses under 

the
program during 2009, we do not expect that these losses will have a material
adverse effect on our results of operations. 

Commodity
Price Risk 

We
purchase certain commodity products that are subject to price volatility caused
by factors beyond our control.  Our most significant commodity
products are lumber and building materials.  Selling prices of these
commodity products are influenced, in part, by the market price we pay, which is
determined by industry supply and demand.  During 2008 and 2007,
lumber price and building materials price movement did not have a material
effect on our results of operations. 

Foreign
Currency Exchange Rate Risk 

Although
we have international operating entities, our exposure to foreign currency
exchange rate fluctuations is not material to our financial condition and
results of operations. 

DISCLOSURE REGARDING FORWARD-LOOKING
STATEMENTS  

We speak
throughout this Annual Report about our future, particularly in the  Letter to
Shareholders  and  Management s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition
and Results of Operations.  While we believe our estimates and expectations are
reasonable, they are not guarantees of future performance.  Our actual
results could differ substantially from our expectations because, for
example: 

Our
sales are dependent upon the health and stability of the general economy, which
remains in a prolonged period of recession that has been made worse by the
severe accompanying financial/credit crisis.  Rising unemployment,
reduced access to credit and reduced consumer confidence have combined to lead
to sharply reduced consumer spending, particularly on many of the discretionary,
bigger-ticket products we sell.  We monitor key economic indicators
including real disposable personal income, employment, housing turnover and
homeownership levels. In addition, changes in the level of repairs, remodeling
and additions to existing homes, changes in commercial building activity, and
the availability and cost of mortgage financing can impact our
business. 

Major
weather-related events and unseasonable weather may impact sales of seasonal
merchandise.  Prolonged and widespread drought conditions could hurt
our sales of lawn and garden and related products. 

Our
expansion strategy has been and will continue to be impacted by economic
conditions, environmental regulations, local zoning issues, availability and
development of land, and more stringent land-use regulations. Furthermore, our
ability to secure a highly qualified workforce is an important element to the
success of our expansion strategy. 

Our
business is highly competitive, and, as we build an increasing percentage of our
new stores in larger markets and utilize new sales channels such as the
internet, we may face new and additional forms of
competition.  Promotional pricing and competitor liquidation
activities during recessionary periods such as we are experiencing may increase
competition and adversely affect our business. 

The
ability to continue our everyday low pricing strategy and provide the products
that customers want depends on our vendors providing a reliable supply of
products at competitive prices and our ability to effectively manage our
inventory. As an increasing number of the products we sell are imported, any
restrictions or limitations on importation of such products, political or
financial instability in some of the countries from which we import them, or a
failure to comply with laws and regulations of those countries from which we
import them could interrupt our supply of imported inventory.  The
current global recession and credit crisis are adversely affecting the
operations and financial stability of some of our vendors by reducing their
sales and restricting their access to capital.  We may have to replace
some of our smaller vendors, and some of our vendors may not be able to fulfill
their financial obligations to us or to do so in a timely manner. 

Our
goal of increasing our market share and our commitment to keeping our prices low
requires us to make substantial investments in new technology and processes
whose benefits could take longer than expected to be realized and which could be
difficult to implement and integrate. 

For more
information about these and other risks and uncertainties that we are exposed
to, you should read the  Risk Factors  included in our Annual Report on Form
10-K to the United States Securities and Exchange Commission. All
forward-looking statements in this report speak only as of the date of this
report or, in the case of any document incorporated by reference, the date of
that document. All subsequent written and oral forward-looking statements
attributable to us or any person acting on our behalf are qualified by the
cautionary statements in this section and in the  Risk Factors  included in our
Annual Report on Form 10-K. We do not undertake any obligation to update or
publicly release any revisions to forward-looking statements to reflect events,
circumstances or changes in expectations after the date of this
report. 

MANAGEMENT S REPORT ON INTERNAL CONTROL OVER FINANCIAL
REPORTING  

Management
of Lowe s Companies, Inc. and its subsidiaries is responsible for establishing
and maintaining adequate internal control over financial reporting (Internal
Control)  as defined in Rule 13a-15(f) under the
Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended .   Our  Internal Control was designed to provide
reasonable assurance to our management and the Board of Directors regarding the
 reliability of financial reporting and the
 preparation and fair presentation of published financial
statements. 

All
internal control systems, no matter how well designed, have inherent
limitations, including the possibility of human error and the circumvention or
overriding of controls. Therefore, even those systems determined to be effective
can provide only reasonable assurance with respect to  the reliability of financial reporting and
 financial statement preparation and presentation.  Further,
because of changes in conditions, the effectiveness may  vary  over time. 

Our
management, with the participation of the Chief Executive Officer and Chief
Financial Officer, evaluated the effectiveness of  our  Internal Control as of January 30, 2009. In
 evaluating our Internal Control,   we  used the criteria set forth by the Committee
of Sponsoring Organizations of the Treadway Commission (COSO) in  Internal Control Integrated
Framework . Based on  our management s
assessment, we have concluded  that, as of January 30, 2009,  our  Internal Control is effective. 

Deloitte   Touche LLP, the  independent
registered public accounting firm  that audited the
financial statements contained in this report,   was engaged to audit  our  Internal Control . Their report appears on page
27. 

REPORT OF INDEPENDENT REGISTERED PUBLIC ACCOUNTING
FIRM  

To the
Board of Directors and Shareholders of Lowe s Companies, Inc. 

      Mooresville,
North Carolina 

We have
audited the accompanying consolidated balance sheets of Lowe's Companies, Inc.
and subsidiaries (the "Company") as of January 30, 2009 and February 1, 2008,
and the related consolidated statements of earnings, shareholders' equity, and
cash flows for each of the three fiscal years in the period ended January 30,
2009. These financial statements are the responsibility of the Company's
management. Our responsibility is to express an opinion on these financial
statements based on our audits. 

We
conducted our audits in accordance with the standards of the Public Company
Accounting Oversight Board (United States). Those standards require that we plan
and perform the audit to obtain reasonable assurance about whether the financial
statements are free of material misstatement. An audit includes examining, on a
test basis, evidence supporting the amounts and disclosures in the financial
statements. An audit also includes assessing the accounting principles used and
significant estimates made by management, as well as evaluating the overall
financial statement presentation. We believe that our audits provide a
reasonable basis for our opinion. 

In our
opinion, such consolidated financial statements present fairly, in all material
respects, the financial position of the Company at January 30, 2009 and February
1, 2008, and the results of its operations and its cash flows for each of the
three fiscal years in the period ended January 30, 2009, in conformity with
accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of
America. 

We have
also audited, in accordance with the standards of the Public Company Accounting
Oversight Board (United States), the Company's internal control over financial
reporting as of January 30, 2009, based on the criteria established in  Internal Control-Integrated
Framework  issued by the Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of the
Treadway Commission and our report dated March 31, 2009 expressed an unqualified
opinion on the Company's internal control over financial reporting. 

/s/
Deloitte   Touche LLP   

Charlotte,
North Carolina 

        March
31, 2009   

REPORT
OF INDEPENDENT REGISTERED PUBLIC ACCOUNTING FIRM 

To the
Board of Directors and Shareholders of Lowe s Companies, Inc. 

      Mooresville,
North Carolina 

We have
audited the internal control over financial reporting of Lowe's Companies, Inc.
and subsidiaries (the "Company") as of January 30, 2009 based on criteria
established in  Internal
Control - Integrated Framework  issued by the Committee of Sponsoring
Organizations of the Treadway Commission. The Company's management is
responsible for maintaining effective internal control over financial reporting
and for its assessment of the effectiveness of internal control over financial
reporting, included in the accompanying Management's Report on Internal Control
Over Financial Reporting. Our responsibility is to express an opinion on the
Company's internal control over financial reporting based on our
audit. 

We
conducted our audit in accordance with the standards of the Public Company
Accounting Oversight Board (United States). Those standards require that we plan
and perform the audit to obtain reasonable assurance about whether effective
internal control over financial reporting was maintained in all material
respects. Our audit included obtaining an understanding of internal control over
financial reporting, assessing the risk that a material weakness exists, testing
and evaluating the design and operating effectiveness of internal control based
on the assessed risk, and performing such other procedures as we considered
necessary in the circumstances. We believe that our audit provides a reasonable
basis for our opinion. 

A
company's internal control over financial reporting is a process designed by, or
under the supervision of, the company's principal executive and principal
financial officers, or persons performing similar functions, and effected by the
company's board of directors, management, and other personnel to provide
reasonable assurance regarding the reliability of financial reporting and the
preparation of financial statements for external purposes in accordance with
generally accepted accounting principles. A company's internal control over
financial reporting includes those policies and procedures that (1) pertain to
the maintenance of records that, in reasonable detail, accurately and fairly
reflect the transactions and dispositions of the assets of the company; (2)
provide reasonable assurance that transactions are recorded as necessary to
permit preparation of financial statements in accordance with generally accepted
accounting principles, and that receipts and expenditures of the company are
being made only in accordance with authorizations of management and directors of
the company; and (3) provide reasonable assurance regarding prevention or timely
detection of unauthorized acquisition, use, or disposition of the company's
assets that could have a material effect on the financial
statements. 

Because
of the inherent limitations of internal control over financial reporting,
including the possibility of collusion or improper management override of
controls, material misstatements due to error or fraud may not be prevented or
detected on a timely basis. Also, projections of any evaluation of the
effectiveness of the internal control over financial reporting to future periods
are subject to the risk that the controls may become inadequate because of
changes in conditions, or that the degree of compliance with the policies or
procedures may deteriorate. 

In our
opinion, the Company maintained, in all material respects, effective internal
control over financial reporting as of January 30, 2009, based on the criteria
established in    Internal Control - Integrated
Framework  issued by the Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of the
Treadway Commission. 

We have
also audited, in accordance with the standards of the Public Company Accounting
Oversight Board (United States), the consolidated financial statements as of and
for the fiscal year ended January 30, 2009 of the Company and our report dated
March 31, 2009 expressed an unqualified opinion on those financial
statements. 

/s/
Deloitte   Touche LLP   

Charlotte,
North Carolina 

        March
31, 2009   

See
accompanying notes to consolidated financial statements. 

See
accompanying notes to consolidated financial statements. 

See
accompanying notes to consolidated financial statements. 

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS  

      YEARS
ENDED JANUARY 30, 2009, FEBRUARY 1, 2008 AND FEBRUARY 2, 2007 

NOTE
1: Summary of Significant Accounting Policies - 

Lowe s
Companies, Inc. and subsidiaries (the Company) is the world's second-largest
home improvement retailer and operated 1,649 stores in the United States and
Canada at January 30, 2009.  Below are those accounting policies
considered by the Company to be significant. 

Fiscal Year -  The Company s
fiscal year ends on the Friday nearest the end of January.  Each of
the fiscal years presented contained 52 weeks. All references herein for the
years 2008, 2007 and 2006 represent the fiscal years ended January 30, 2009,
February 1, 2008 and February 2, 2007, respectively. 

Principles of Consolidation  -
The consolidated financial statements include the accounts of the Company and
its wholly-owned or controlled operating subsidiaries. All material intercompany
accounts and transactions have been eliminated. 

Foreign Currency  - The
functional currencies of the Company s international subsidiaries are primarily
the local currencies of the countries in which the subsidiaries are located.
Foreign currency denominated assets and liabilities are translated into U.S.
dollars using the exchange rates in effect at the consolidated balance sheet
date. Results of operations and cash flows are translated using the average
exchange rates throughout the period. The effect of exchange rate fluctuations
on translation of assets and liabilities is included as a component of
shareholders' equity in accumulated other comprehensive (loss) income. Gains and
losses from foreign currency transactions, which are included in selling,
general and administrative (SG A) expense, have not been
significant. 

Use of Estimates  - The
preparation of the Company s financial statements in accordance with accounting
principles generally accepted in the United States of America requires
management to make estimates that affect the reported amounts of assets,
liabilities, sales and expenses, and related disclosures of contingent assets
and liabilities.  The Company bases these estimates on historical
results and various other assumptions believed to be reasonable, all of which
form the basis for making estimates concerning the carrying values of assets and
liabilities that are not readily available from other sources.  Actual
results may differ from these estimates. 

Cash and Cash Equivalents  -
Cash and cash equivalents include cash on hand, demand deposits and short-term
investments with original maturities of three months or less when
purchased.  The majority of payments due from financial institutions
for the settlement of credit card and debit card transactions process within two
business days and are, therefore, classified as cash and cash
equivalents. 

Investments  - The Company has
a cash management program which provides for the investment of cash balances not
expected to be used in current operations in financial instruments that have
maturities of up to 10 years. Variable-rate demand notes, which have stated
maturity dates in excess of 10 years, meet this maturity requirement of the cash
management program because the maturity date of these investments is determined
based on the interest rate reset date or par value put date for the purpose of
applying this criteria. 

Investments,
exclusive of cash equivalents, with a stated maturity date of one year or less
from the balance sheet date or that are expected to be used in current
operations, are classified as short-term investments. The Company s trading
securities are also classified as short-term investments.  All other
investments are classified as long-term. As of January 30, 2009, investments
consisted primarily of money market funds, certificates of deposit, municipal
obligations and mutual funds.  Restricted balances pledged as
collateral for letters of credit for the Company s extended warranty program and
for a portion of the Company s casualty insurance and Installed Sales program
liabilities are also classified as investments. 

The
Company maintains investment securities in conjunction with certain employee
benefit plans that are classified as trading securities.  These
securities are carried at fair market value with unrealized gains and losses
included in SG A expense.  All other investment securities are
classified as available-for-sale and are carried at fair market value with
unrealized gains and losses included in accumulated other comprehensive (loss)
income in shareholders' equity. 

Merchandise Inventory  -
Inventory is stated at the lower of cost or market using the first-in, first-out
method of inventory accounting. The cost of inventory also includes certain
costs associated with the preparation of inventory for resale, including
distribution center costs, and is net of vendor funds. 

The
Company records an inventory reserve for the anticipated loss associated with
selling inventories below cost.  This reserve is based on management s
current knowledge with respect to inventory levels, sales trends and historical
experience. Management does not believe the Company s merchandise inventories
are subject to significant risk of obsolescence in the near term, and management
has the ability to adjust purchasing practices based on anticipated sales trends
and general economic conditions. However, changes in consumer purchasing
patterns could result in the need for additional reserves.  The
Company also records an inventory reserve for the estimated shrinkage between
physical inventories.  This reserve is based primarily on actual
shrink results from previous physical inventories.  Changes in the
estimated shrink reserve may be necessary based on the timing and results of
physical inventories. Management believes it has sufficient current and
historical knowledge to record reasonable estimates for both of these inventory
reserves. 

Derivative   Financial Instruments  - The
Company occasionally utilizes derivative financial instruments to manage certain
business risks.  However, the amounts were not material to the
Company s consolidated financial statements in any of the years
presented.  The Company does not use derivative financial instruments
for trading purposes. 

Credit Programs  - The majority
of the Company s accounts receivable arises from sales of goods and services to
Commercial Business Customers. The Company has an agreement with General
Electric Company and its subsidiaries (GE) under which GE purchases at face
value new commercial business accounts receivable originated by the Company and
services these accounts.  This agreement ends in December 2016, unless
terminated sooner by the parties.  The Company accounts for these
transfers as sales of accounts receivable.  When the Company sells its
commercial business accounts receivable, it retains certain interests in those
receivables, including the funding of a loss reserve and its obligation related
to GE s ongoing servicing of the receivables sold.  Any gain or loss
on the sale is determined based on the previous carrying amounts of the
transferred assets allocated at fair value between the receivables sold and the
interests retained. Fair value is based on the present value of expected future
cash flows, taking into account the key assumptions of anticipated credit
losses, payment rates, late fee rates, GE s servicing costs and the discount
rate commensurate with the uncertainty involved.  Due to the
short-term nature of the receivables sold, changes to the key assumptions would
not materially impact the recorded gain or loss on the sales of receivables or
the fair value of the retained interests in the receivables. 

Total
commercial business accounts receivable sold to GE were $1.7 billion in 2008 and
$1.8 billion in both 2007 and 2006.  During 2008, 2007 and 2006, the
Company recognized losses of $38 million, $34 million and $35 million,
respectively, on these sales as SG A expense, which primarily relates to the
fair value of the obligations incurred related to servicing costs that are
remitted to GE monthly.  At January 30, 2009 and February 1, 2008, the
fair value of the retained interests was insignificant and was determined based
on the present value of expected future cash flows. 

Sales
generated through the Company s proprietary credit cards are not reflected in
receivables.  Under an agreement with GE, credit is extended directly
to customers by GE.  All credit-program-related services are performed
and controlled directly by GE.  The Company has the option, but no
obligation, to purchase the receivables at the end of the agreement in December
2016.  Tender costs, including amounts associated with accepting the
Company s proprietary credit cards, are recorded in SG A expense in the
consolidated statements of earnings. 

The total
portfolio of receivables held by GE, including both receivables originated by GE
from the Company s proprietary credit cards and commercial business accounts
receivable originated by the Company and sold to GE, approximated $6.8 billion
at January 30, 2009, and $6.6 billion at February 1, 2008. 

Property and Depreciation  -
Property is recorded at cost. Costs associated with major additions are
capitalized and depreciated. Capital assets are expected to yield future
benefits and have useful lives which exceed one year.  The total cost
of a capital asset generally includes all applicable sales taxes, delivery
costs, installation costs and other appropriate costs incurred by the Company in
the case of self-constructed assets.  Upon disposal, the cost of
properties and related accumulated depreciation are removed from the accounts,
with gains and losses reflected in SG A expense on the consolidated
statements of earnings. 

Depreciation
is provided over the estimated useful lives of the depreciable assets. Assets
are depreciated using the straight-line method. Leasehold improvements are
depreciated over the shorter of their estimated useful lives or the term of the
related lease, which may include one or more option renewal periods where
failure to exercise such options   would
result in an economic penalty in such amount that renewal appears, at the
inception of the lease, to be reasonably assured.  During the term of
a lease, if a substantial additional investment is made in a leased location,
the Company reevaluates its definition of lease term to determine whether the
investment, together with any penalties related to non-renewal, would constitute
an economic penalty in such amount that renewal appears, at the time of the
reevaluation, to be reasonably assured. 

Long-Lived Asset Impairment/Exit
Activities  -   The carrying amounts of
long-lived assets are reviewed whenever events or changes in circumstances
indicate that the carrying amount may not be recoverable. 

For
long-lived assets held-for-use, a potential impairment has occurred if projected
future undiscounted cash flows expected to result from the use and eventual
disposition of the assets are less than the carrying value of the
assets.  An impairment loss is recognized when the carrying amount of
the long-lived asset is not recoverable and exceeds its fair
value.  The Company estimates fair value based on projected future
discounted cash flows from the use and eventual disposition of the
assets. 

For
long-lived assets to be abandoned, the Company considers the asset to be
disposed of when it ceases to be used.  Until it ceases to be used,
the Company continues to classify the assets as held-for-use and tests for
potential impairment accordingly.  If the Company commits to a plan to
abandon a long-lived asset before the end of its previously estimated useful
life, depreciation estimates are revised. 

For
long-lived assets held-for-sale, an impairment charge is recorded if the
carrying amount of the asset exceeds its fair value less cost to
sell.  Fair value is based on a market appraisal or a valuation
technique that considers various factors, including local market
conditions.  A long-lived asset is not depreciated while it is
classified as held-for-sale. 

The
charge for impairment is included in SG A expense.  The Company
recorded long-lived asset impairment charges of $21 million during 2008,
including $16 million for operating stores and $5 million for relocated stores,
closed stores and other excess properties.  The Company recorded
long-lived asset impairment charges of $28 million and $5 million for relocated
stores, closed stores and other excess properties in 2007 and 2006,
respectively. 

The net
carrying value for relocated stores, closed stores and other excess properties
that are expected to be sold within the next 12 months is classified as
held-for-sale and included in other current assets on the consolidated balance
sheets.  Assets held-for-sale totaled $6 million at January 30, 2009
and $28 million at February 1, 2008.  The net carrying value for
relocated stores, closed stores and other excess properties that do not meet the
held-for-sale criteria is included in other assets (non-current) on the
consolidated balance sheets and totaled $174 million and $91 million at January
30, 2009 and February 1, 2008, respectively. 

When
operating leased locations are closed, a liability is recognized for the fair
value of future contractual obligations, including property taxes, utilities and
common area maintenance, net of estimated sublease income.  The
liability, which is included in other current liabilities on the consolidated
balance sheets, was $7 million and $11 million at January 30, 2009 and February
1, 2008, respectively. 

Leases  - For lease agreements
that provide for escalating rent payments or free-rent occupancy periods, the
Company recognizes rent expense on a straight-line basis over the non-cancelable
lease term and option renewal periods where failure to exercise such options
would result in an economic penalty in such amount that renewal appears, at the
inception of the lease, to be reasonably assured.  The lease term
commences on the date that the Company takes possession of or controls the
physical use of the property.  Deferred rent is included in other
liabilities (non-current) on the consolidated balance sheets. 

Assets
under capital lease are amortized in accordance with the Company's normal
depreciation policy for owned assets or, if shorter, over the non-cancelable
lease term and any option renewal period where failure to exercise such option
would result in an economic penalty in such amount that renewal appears, at the
inception of the lease, to be reasonably 

assured.  The
amortization of the assets is included in depreciation expense on the
consolidated financial statements.  During the term of a lease, if a
substantial additional investment is made in a leased location, the Company
reevaluates its definition of lease term. 

Accounts Payable -  In June
2007, the Company entered into a customer-managed services agreement with a
third party to provide an accounts payable tracking system which facilitates
participating suppliers  ability to finance payment obligations from the Company
with designated third-party financial institutions.  Participating
suppliers may, at their sole discretion, make offers to finance one or more
payment obligations of the Company prior to their scheduled due dates at a
discounted price to participating financial institutions.  The Company s
goal in entering into this arrangement is to capture overall supply chain
savings, in the form of pricing, payment terms or vendor funding, created by
facilitating suppliers  ability to finance payment obligations at more favorable
discount rates, while providing them with greater working capital
flexibility. 

The
Company s obligations to its suppliers, including amounts due and scheduled
payment dates, are not impacted by suppliers  decisions to finance amounts under
this arrangement.  However, the Company s right to offset balances due from
suppliers against payment obligations is restricted by this arrangement for
those payment obligations that have been financed by suppliers.  As of
January 30, 2009 and February 1, 2008, $393 million and $77 million,
respectively, of the Company s outstanding payment obligations had been placed
on the accounts payable tracking system, and participating suppliers had
financed $370 million and $48 million, respectively, of those payment
obligations to participating financial institutions. 

Self-Insurance  - The Company
is self-insured for certain losses relating to workers  compensation,
automobile, property, and general and product liability claims.  The
Company has stop-loss coverage to limit the exposure arising from these
claims.  The Company is also self-insured for certain losses relating
to extended warranty and medical and dental claims.  Self-insurance
claims filed and claims incurred but not reported are accrued based upon
management s estimates of the discounted ultimate cost for self-insured claims
incurred using actuarial assumptions followed in the insurance industry and
historical experience.  Although management believes it has the
ability to reasonably estimate losses related to claims, it is possible that
actual results could differ from recorded self-insurance
liabilities. 

Income Taxes  - The Company
establishes deferred income tax assets and liabilities for temporary differences
between the tax and financial accounting bases of assets and
liabilities.  The tax effects of such differences are reflected in the
balance sheet at the enacted tax rates expected to be in effect when the
differences reverse.  A valuation allowance is recorded to reduce the
carrying amount of deferred tax assets if it is more likely than not that all or
a portion of the asset will not be realized.  The tax balances and
income tax expense recognized by the Company are based on management s
interpretation of the tax statutes of multiple jurisdictions. 

The
Company establishes a reserve for tax positions for which there is uncertainty
as to whether or not the position will be ultimately sustained.  The
Company includes interest related to tax issues as part of net interest on the
consolidated financial statements.  The Company records any applicable
penalties related to tax issues within the income tax provision. 

Revenue Recognition -  The
Company recognizes revenues, net of sales tax, when sales transactions occur and
customers take possession of the merchandise. A provision for anticipated
merchandise returns is provided through a reduction of sales and cost of sales
in the period that the related sales are recorded.  Revenues from
product installation services are recognized when the installation is
completed.  Deferred revenues associated with amounts received for
which customers have not yet taken possession of merchandise or for which
installation has not yet been completed were $328 million and $332 million at
January 30, 2009, and February 1, 2008, respectively. 

Revenues
from stored value cards, which include gift cards and returned merchandise
credits, are deferred and recognized when the cards are redeemed.  The
liability associated with outstanding stored value cards was $346 million and
$385 million at January 30, 2009, and February 1, 2008, respectively, and these
amounts are included in deferred revenue on the consolidated balance
sheets.   The Company recognizes
income from unredeemed stored value cards at the point at which redemption
becomes remote.  The Company s stored value cards have no expiration date
or dormancy fees.  Therefore, to determine when redemption is remote,
the Company analyzes an aging of the unredeemed cards based on the date of last
stored value card use.   

Extended Warranties  - Lowe s
sells separately-priced extended warranty contracts under a Lowe s-branded
program for which the Company is ultimately self-insured.  The Company
recognizes revenue from extended warranty sales on a straight-line basis over
the respective contract term.  Extended warranty contract terms
primarily range from one to four years from the date of purchase or the end of
the manufacturer s warranty, as applicable.  The Company s extended
warranty deferred revenue is included in other liabilities (non-current) on the
consolidated balance sheets.  Changes in deferred revenue for extended
warranty contracts are summarized as follows: 

Incremental
direct acquisition costs associated with the sale of extended warranties are
also deferred and recognized as expense on a straight-line basis over the
respective contract term. Deferred costs associated with extended warranty
contracts were $121 million and $91 million at January 30, 2009 and February 1,
2008, respectively.  The Company s extended warranty deferred costs
are included in other assets (non-current) on the consolidated balance
sheets.  All other costs, such as costs of services performed under
the contract, general and administrative expenses and advertising expenses are
expensed as incurred. 

The
liability for extended warranty claims incurred is included in self-insurance
liabilities on the consolidated balance sheets.  Changes in the
liability for extended warranty claims are summarized as follows: 

Cost of Sales and Selling, General
and Administrative Expenses -  The following lists the primary costs
classified in each major expense category: 

Cost
      of Sales 

Selling,
      General and Administrative 

Total
      cost of products sold, including: 

                -     Purchase
      costs, net of vendor funds; 

                -     Freight
      expenses associated with moving merchandise inventories from vendors to
      retail stores; 

                -     Costs
      associated with operating the Company s distribution network, including
      payroll and benefit costs and occupancy costs; 

                      Costs
      of installation services provided; 

                      Costs
      associated with delivery of products directly from vendors to customers by
      third parties; 

                      Costs
      associated with inventory shrinkage and obsolescence. 

Payroll
      and benefit costs for retail and corporate employees; 

                      Occupancy
      costs of retail and corporate facilities; 

                      Advertising; 

                      Costs
      associated with delivery of products from stores to
customers; 

                      Third-party,
      in-store service costs; 

                      Tender
      costs, including bank charges, costs associated with credit card
      interchange fees and amounts associated with accepting the Company s
      proprietary credit cards; 

                      Costs
      associated with self-insured plans, and premium costs for stop-loss
      coverage and fully insured plans; 

                      Long-lived
      asset impairment charges and gains/losses on disposal of
      assets; 

                      Other
      administrative costs, such as supplies, and travel and
      entertainment. 

Vendor Funds  - The Company
receives funds from vendors in the normal course of business principally as a
result of purchase volumes, sales, early payments or promotions of vendors 
products.  Based on the provisions of the vendor agreements in place,
management develops accrual rates by estimating the point at which the Company
will have completed its performance under the agreement and the amount agreed
upon will be earned.  Due to the complexity and diversity of the
individual vendor agreements, the Company performs analyses and reviews
historical trends throughout the year to ensure the amounts earned are
appropriately recorded.  As a part of these analyses, the Company
validates its accrual rates based on actual purchase trends and applies those
rates to actual purchase volumes to determine the amount of funds accrued by the
Company and receivable from the vendor. Amounts accrued throughout the year
could be impacted if actual purchase volumes differ from projected annual
purchase volumes, especially in the case of programs that provide for increased
funding when graduated purchase volumes are met. 

Vendor
funds are treated as a reduction of inventory cost, unless they represent a
reimbursement of specific, incremental and identifiable costs incurred by the
Company to sell the vendor s product. Substantially all of the vendor funds that
the Company receives do not meet the specific, incremental and identifiable
criteria. Therefore, the Company treats the majority of these funds as a
reduction in the cost of inventory as the amounts are accrued, and recognizes
these funds as a reduction of cost of sales when the inventory is
sold. 

Advertising  - Costs associated
with advertising are charged to expense as incurred.  Advertising
expenses were $789 million, $788 million and $873 million in 2008, 2007 and
2006, respectively. 

Shipping and Handling Costs  -
The Company includes shipping and handling costs relating to the delivery of
products directly from vendors to customers by third parties in cost of
sales.  Shipping and handling costs, which include salaries and
vehicle operations expenses relating to the delivery of products from stores to
customers, are classified as SG A expense.  Shipping and handling
costs included in SG A expense were $305 million, $307 million and $310
million in 2008, 2007 and 2006, respectively. 

Store Opening Costs  - Costs of
opening new or relocated retail stores, which include payroll and supply costs
incurred prior to store opening and grand opening advertising costs, are charged
to operations as incurred. 

Comprehensive Income  - The
Company reports comprehensive income on its consolidated statements of
shareholders  equity.  Comprehensive income represents changes in
shareholders' equity from non-owner sources and is comprised primarily of net
earnings plus or minus unrealized gains or losses on available-for-sale
securities, as well as foreign currency translation
adjustments.  Unrealized gains, net of tax, on available-for-sale
securities classified in accumulated other comprehensive (loss) income on the
consolidated balance sheets were $2 million at both January 30, 2009 and
February 1, 2008.  Foreign currency translation losses, net of tax,
classified in accumulated other comprehensive (loss) income were $8 million at
January 30, 2009, and foreign currency translation gains, net of tax, were $6
million at February 1, 2008.  The reclassification adjustments for
gains/losses included in net earnings were not significant for any of the
periods presented. 

Recent Accounting Pronouncements
 - In June 2008, the Financial Accounting Standards Board (FASB) issued
FSP EITF 03-6-1,  Determining Whether Instruments Granted in Share-Based Payment
Transactions are Participating Securities .  FSP EITF 03-6-1 addresses
whether instruments granted in share-based payment transactions are
participating securities prior to vesting and affects entities that accrue cash
dividends on share-based payment awards during the awards  service period when
the dividends do not need to be returned if the employees forfeit the
awards.  FSP EITF 03-6-1 states that all outstanding unvested
share-based payment awards that contain rights to nonforfeitable dividends
participate in undistributed earnings with common shareholders and, therefore,
need to be included in the earnings allocation in computing earnings per share
under the two-class method.  FSP EITF 03-6-1 is effective for fiscal
years beginning after December 15, 2008, and interim periods within those fiscal
years.  The Company does not expect the adoption of FSP EITF 03-6-1 to
have a material impact on its consolidated financial statements. 

Segment Information    -
The Company s operating segments, representing the Company s home improvement
retail stores, are aggregated within one reportable segment based on the way the
Company manages its business.  The Company s home improvement retail
stores exhibit similar long-term economic characteristics, sell similar products
and services, use similar processes to sell those products and services, and
sell their products and services to similar classes
of   

customers.  The
amounts of long-lived assets and net sales outside the U.S. were not significant
for any of the periods presented. 

Reclassifications  - Certain
prior period amounts have been reclassified to conform to current
classifications. The previous accrued salaries and wages caption was replaced
with a new caption, accrued compensation and employee benefits, on the
consolidated balance sheets. As part of this, certain prior period amounts were
reclassified from other current liabilities into accrued compensation and
employee benefits. 

NOTE
2: Fair Value Measurements and Financial Instruments - 

Statement
of Financial Accounting Standards (SFAS) No. 157,  Fair Value Measurements, 
provides a single definition of fair value, together with a framework for
measuring it, and requires additional disclosure about the use of fair value to
measure assets and liabilities.  FASB Staff Position (FSP) FAS 157-2,
 Effective Date of FASB Statement No. 157  delayed the effective date for one
year for all nonrecurring fair value measurements of nonfinancial assets and
liabilities.  As a result, the Company s adoption of SFAS No. 157,
effective February 2, 2008, is currently limited to financial assets and
liabilities measured at fair value and other nonfinancial assets and liabilities
measured at fair value on a recurring basis.  The Company elected a
partial deferral under the provisions of FSP FAS 157-2 related to the
measurement of fair value used when evaluating long-lived assets for impairment
and liabilities for exit or disposal activities. 

SFAS No.
157 defines fair value as the price that would be received to sell an asset or
paid to transfer a liability in an orderly transaction between market
participants at the measurement date.  SFAS No. 157 establishes a
three-level hierarchy, which encourages an entity to maximize the use of
observable inputs and minimize the use of unobservable inputs when measuring
fair value.  The three levels of the hierarchy are defined as
follows: 

Level
      1   inputs to the valuation techniques that are quoted prices in active
      markets for identical assets or
liabilities 

Level
      2   inputs to the valuation techniques that are other than quoted prices
      but are observable for the assets or liabilities, either directly or
      indirectly 

Level
      3   inputs to the valuation techniques that are unobservable for the
      assets or liabilities 

The
effect of partially adopting this standard did not result in changes to the
valuation techniques the Company had previously used to measure the fair value
of its financial assets and liabilities.  Therefore, the primary
impact to the Company upon partial adoption of SFAS No. 157 was expanded fair
value measurement disclosure. 

The
following table presents the Company s financial assets measured at fair value
on a recurring basis as of January 30, 2009, classified by SFAS No. 157
fair value hierarchy: 

When
available, quoted prices are used to determine fair value.  When
quoted prices in active markets are available, investments are classified within
Level 1 of the fair value hierarchy.  The Company s Level 1
investments primarily 

consist
of investments in money market and mutual funds.  When quoted prices
in active markets are not available, fair values are determined using pricing
models and the inputs to those pricing models are based on observable market
inputs in active markets.  The inputs to the pricing models are
typically benchmark yields, reported trades, broker-dealer quotes, issuer
spreads and benchmark securities, among others.  The Company s Level 2
investments primarily consist of investments in municipal
obligations. 

The
Company s other financial instruments not measured at fair value on a recurring
basis include cash and cash equivalents, accounts receivable, short-term
borrowings, accounts payable, accrued liabilities, and long-term debt and are
reflected in the financial statements at cost. With the exception of long-term
debt, cost approximates fair value for these items due to their short-term
nature. Estimated fair values for long-term debt have been determined using
available market information.  For debt issues that are not quoted on
an exchange, interest rates that are currently available to the Company for
issuance of debt with similar terms and remaining maturities are used to
estimate fair value. 

Carrying
amounts and the related estimated fair value of the Company s long-term debt,
excluding capital leases and other, is as follows: 

NOTE
3: Investments - 

The
amortized costs, gross unrealized holding  gains  and losses,
and fair values of the Company s investment securities classified as
available-for-sale at January 30, 2009, and February 1, 2008, are as
follows: 

The
proceeds from sales of available-for-sale securities were $1.0 billion, $1.2
billion and $412 million for 2008, 2007 and 2006, respectively.  Gross
realized gains and losses on the sale of available-for-sale securities were not
significant for any of the periods presented.  The municipal
obligations classified as long-term at January 30, 2009, will mature in one to
32 years, based on stated maturity dates. 

The
Company adopted SFAS No. 159,  The Fair Value Option for Financial Assets and
Financial Liabilities, Including an Amendment of FASB Statement No. 115, 
effective February 2, 2008.  SFAS No. 159 provides entities with an
option to measure many financial instruments and certain other items at fair
value, including available-for-sale securities previously accounted for under
SFAS No. 115,  Accounting for Certain Investments in Debt and Equity
Securities.   Under SFAS No. 159, unrealized gains and losses on items
for which the fair value option has been elected are reported in earnings at
each reporting period.  Upon adoption of SFAS No. 159, the Company
elected the fair value option for certain pre-existing investments, which had a
carrying value of $42 million and were included in long-term investments in the
consolidated balance sheet at February 2, 2008.  These investments are
now reported as trading securities under SFAS No. 115.  Trading
securities are included in short-term investments and were $31 million at
January 30, 2009.  For the year ended January 30, 2009, unrealized
losses on those trading securities totaled $14 million and were included in
SG A expense.  Cash flows from purchases, sales and maturities of
trading securities continue to be included in cash flows from investing
activities in the consolidated statements of cash flows because the nature and
purpose for which the securities were acquired has not changed as a result of
the SFAS No. 159 election.  The adoption of SFAS No. 159 did not have
a material impact on the Company s consolidated financial
statements. 

Short-term
and long-term investments include restricted balances pledged as collateral for
letters of credit for the Company s extended warranty program and for a portion
of the Company s casualty insurance and Installed Sales program
liabilities.  Restricted balances included in short-term investments
were $214 million at January 30, 2009 and $167 million at February 1,
2008.  Restricted balances included in long-term investments were $143
million at January 30, 2009 and $172 million at February 1, 2008. 

NOTE
4: Property and Accumulated Depreciation - 

Property
is summarized by major class in the following table: 

Included
in net property are assets under capital lease of $521 million, less accumulated
depreciation of $318 million, at January 30, 2009, and $523 million, less
accumulated depreciation of $294 million, at February 1, 2008. 

NOTE
5: Short-Term Borrowings and Lines of Credit - 

The
Company has a $1.75 billion senior credit facility that expires in June
2012.  The senior credit facility supports the Company s commercial
paper and revolving credit programs.  The senior credit facility has a $500
million letter of credit sublimit.  Amounts outstanding under letters
of credit reduce the amount available for borrowing under the senior credit
facility.  Borrowings made under the senior credit facility are
unsecured and are priced at fixed rates based upon market conditions at the time
of funding in accordance with the terms of the senior credit
facility.  The senior credit facility contains certain restrictive
covenants, which include maintenance of a debt leverage ratio as defined by the
senior credit 

facility.  The
Company was in compliance with those covenants at January 30, 2009. 
Nineteen banking institutions are participating in the senior credit
facility.  As of January 30, 2009, there was $789 million outstanding
under the commercial paper program, and the weighted-average interest rate on
the outstanding commercial paper was 0.84%.  As of February 1, 2008,
there was $1.0 billion outstanding under the commercial paper program and the
weighted-average interest rate on the outstanding commercial paper was
3.92%.  As of January 30, 2009, there were no letters of credit
outstanding under the senior credit facility.    

In
addition, the Company had standby and documentary letters of credit issued
through other banking arrangements which totaled $224 million as of January 30,
2009, and $299 million as of February 1, 2008. Commitment fees ranging from
0.225% to 0.50% per annum are paid on the letters of credit amounts
outstanding. 

The
Company had a Canadian dollar (C$) denominated credit facility in the amount of
C$200 million that expired March 30, 2009.  The outstanding borrowings
at expiration were repaid with net cash provided by operating
activities.  The credit facility was established for the purpose of
funding the construction of retail stores and for working capital and other
general corporate purposes in Canada.  Borrowings made were unsecured
and were priced at fixed rates based upon market conditions at the time of
funding in accordance with the terms of the credit facility.  The
credit facility contained certain restrictive covenants, which included
maintenance of a debt leverage ratio as defined by the credit
facility.  The Company was in compliance with those covenants at
January 30, 2009.  Three banking institutions participated in the
credit facility.  As of January 30, 2009, there was C$199 million, or
the equivalent of $162 million, outstanding under the credit facility, and the
weighted-average interest rate on the short-term borrowings was
2.65%.  As of February 1, 2008, there was C$60 million, or the
equivalent of $60 million, outstanding under the credit facility, and the
weighted-average interest rate on the short-term borrowings was
5.75%.  

The
Company also has a C$ denominated credit facility in the amount of C$50 million
that provides revolving credit support for the Company s Canadian
operations.  This uncommitted credit facility provides the Company
with the ability to make unsecured borrowings, which are priced at fixed rates
based upon market conditions at the time of funding in accordance with the terms
of the credit facility.  As of January 30, 2009, there was C$44
million, or the equivalent of $36 million, outstanding under the credit
facility, and the weighted-average interest rate on the short-term borrowings
was 1.60%.  As of February 1, 2008, there were no borrowings
outstanding under the credit facility. 

NOTE
6: Long-Term Debt - 

1 
      Real properties with an aggregate book value of $35 million were pledged
      as collateral at January 30, 2009, for secured
  debt. 

2 
       Approximately 46% of
      these medium-term notes may be put at the option of the holder on the 20th
      anniversary of the issue at par value.  The medium-term notes
      were issued in 1997.  None of these notes are currently
      putable.  

Debt
maturities, exclusive of unamortized original issue discounts, capital leases
and other, for the next five years and thereafter are as follows: 2009, $1
million; 2010, $519 million; 2011, $1 million; 2012, $551 million; 2013, $1
million; thereafter, $3.7 billion. 

The
Company s debentures, notes, medium-term notes and senior notes contain certain
restrictive covenants.  The Company was in compliance with all
covenants of these agreements at January 30, 2009. 

Senior
Notes 

In
September 2007, the Company issued $1.3 billion of unsecured senior notes,
comprised of three tranches: $550 million of 5.60% senior notes maturing in
September 2012, $250 million of 6.10% senior notes maturing in September 2017
and $500 million of 6.65% senior notes maturing in September
2037.  The 5.60%, 6.10% and 6.65% senior notes were issued at
discounts of approximately $2.7 million, $1.3 million and $6.3 million,
respectively.  Interest on the senior notes is payable semiannually in
arrears in March and September of each year until maturity, beginning in March
2008.  The discount associated with the issuance is included in
long-term debt and is being amortized over the respective terms of the senior
notes.  The net proceeds of approximately $1.3 billion were used for
general corporate purposes, including capital expenditures and working capital
needs, and for repurchases of shares of the Company s common stock. 

In
October 2006, the Company issued $1.0 billion of unsecured senior notes,
comprised of two tranches: $550 million of 5.40% senior notes maturing in
October 2016 and $450 million of 5.80% senior notes maturing in October
2036.  The 5.40% senior notes and the 5.80% senior notes were each
issued at a discount of approximately $4.4 million.  Interest on the
senior notes is payable semiannually in arrears in April and October of each
year until maturity, beginning in April 2007.  The discount associated
with the issuance is included in long-term debt and is being amortized over the
respective terms of the senior notes.  The net proceeds of
approximately $991 million were used for general corporate purposes, including
capital expenditures and working capital needs, and for repurchases of shares of
the Company s common stock. 

The
senior notes issued in 2007 and 2006 may be redeemed by the Company at any time,
in whole or in part, at a redemption price plus accrued interest to the date of
redemption. The redemption price is equal to the greater of (1) 100% of the
principal amount of the senior notes to be redeemed, or (2) the sum of the
present values of the remaining scheduled payments of principal and interest
thereon, discounted to the date of redemption on a semiannual basis at specified
rates. The indenture under which the 2007 senior notes were issued also contains
a provision that allows the holders of the notes to require the Company to
repurchase all or any part of their notes if a change-in-control triggering
event occurs.  If elected under the change-in-control provisions, the
repurchase of the notes will occur at a purchase price of 101% of the principal
amount, plus accrued and unpaid interest, if any, on such notes to the date of
purchase.    The indenture governing the senior notes does
not limit the aggregate principal amount of debt securities that the Company may
issue, nor is the Company required to maintain financial ratios or specified
levels of net worth or liquidity. However, the indenture contains various
restrictive covenants, none of which is expected to impact the Company s
liquidity or capital resources. 

Upon the
issuance of each of the series of senior notes previously described, the Company
evaluated the optionality features embedded in the notes and concluded that
these features do not require bifurcation from the host contracts and separate
accounting as derivative instruments. 

Convertible
Notes 

On June
30, 2008, the Company redeemed for cash approximately $19 million principal
amount, $14 million carrying amount, of its convertible notes issued in February
2001, which represented all remaining notes outstanding of such issue, at a
price equal to the sum of the issuance price plus accrued original issue
discount of such notes as of the redemption date ($730.71 per note). 
During 2008 holders of an insignificant number of notes exercised their right to
convert their notes into shares of the Company s common stock at the rate of
32.896 shares per note. During 2007, holders of $18 

million
principal amount, $13 million carrying amount, of notes issued in February 2001
exercised their right to convert the notes into approximately 0.6 million shares
of the Company s common stock at the rate of 32.896 shares per note.

On June
25, 2008, the Company completed a single open-market repurchase of approximately
$187 million principal amount, $164 million carrying amount, of its senior
convertible notes issued in October 2001 at a price of $875.73 per note. 
The Company subsequently redeemed for cash on June 30, 2008, approximately $392
million principal amount, $343 million carrying amount, of its senior
convertible notes issued in October 2001, which represented all remaining notes
outstanding of such issue, at a price equal to the sum of the issuance price
plus accrued original issue discount of such notes as of the redemption date
($875.73 per note).  During 2008 and 2007, holders of an insignificant
number of notes exercised their right to convert their notes into shares of the
Company s common stock at the rate of 34.424 shares per note. 

Upon
redemption of these convertible notes, the Company recognized in SG A
expense a loss of approximately $8 million related to the unamortized debt
issuance costs and underwriting discounts. 

NOTE
7: Shareholders' Equity - 

Authorized
shares of common stock were 5.6 billion ($.50 par value) at January 30, 2009 and
February 1, 2008. 

The
Company has 5.0 million ($5 par value) authorized shares of preferred stock,
none of which have been issued. The Board of Directors may issue the preferred
stock (without action by shareholders) in one or more series, having such voting
rights, dividend and liquidation preferences, and such conversion and other
rights as may be designated by the Board of Directors at the time of
issuance. 

The
Company has a share repurchase program that is implemented through purchases
made from time to time either in the open market or through private
transactions.  Shares purchased under the share repurchase program are
retired and returned to authorized and unissued status.  As of
February 3, 2006, the total remaining authorization under the share repurchase
program was $1.2 billion.  In August 2006 and May 2007, the Board of
Directors authorized up to an additional $2 billion and $3 billion in share
repurchases through 2008 and 2009, respectively. The Company repurchased 56.8
million shares at a total cost of $1.7 billion (of which $160 million was
recorded as a reduction in retained earnings, after capital in excess of par
value was depleted) during 2006 and 76.4 million shares at a total cost of $2.3
billion (of which $1.9 billion was recorded as a reduction in retained earnings,
after capital in excess of par value was depleted) during 2007.  No
common shares were repurchased under the share repurchase program during 2008.
As of January 30, 2009, the Company had remaining authorization through fiscal
2009 under the share repurchase program of $2.2 billion. 

NOTE
8: Accounting for Share-Based Payment - 

Effective
February 4, 2006, the Company adopted the fair value recognition provisions of
SFAS No. 123(R),  Share-Based Payment,  using the
modified-prospective-transition method.  Prior to this, the Company
was applying the fair value recognition provisions of SFAS No. 123,  Accounting
for Stock-Based Compensation.   For all grants, the amount of
share-based payment expense recognized has been adjusted for estimated
forfeitures of awards for which the requisite service is not expected to be
provided. Estimated forfeiture rates are developed based on the Company s
analysis of historical forfeiture data for homogeneous employee
groups. 

The
Company recognized share-based payment expense in SG A expense on the
consolidated statements of earnings totaling $95 million, $99 million and $62
million in 2008, 2007 and 2006, respectively.  The total income tax
benefit recognized was $31 million, $32 million and $18 million in 2008, 2007
and 2006, respectively. 

Total
unrecognized share-based payment expense for all share-based payment plans was
$95 million at January 30, 2009, of which $56 million will be recognized in
2009, $32 million in 2010 and $7 million thereafter.  This results in
these amounts being recognized over a weighted-average period of 1.8
years. 

Overview of Share-Based
Payment Plans  

The
Company has (a) four equity incentive plans, referred to as the  2006,   2001, 
 1997  and  1994  Incentive Plans, (b) one share-based plan to non-employee
directors, referred to as the Amended and Restated Directors  Stock Option and
Deferred Stock Unit Plan (Directors  Plan) and (c) an employee stock purchase
plan (ESPP) that allows employees to purchase Company shares through payroll
deductions.  These plans contain a nondiscretionary antidilution
provision that is designed to equalize the value of an award as a result of an
equity restructuring.  Share-based awards in the form of incentive and
non-qualified stock options, performance accelerated restricted stock (PARS),
performance-based restricted stock, restricted stock and deferred stock units,
which represent nonvested stock, may be granted to key employees from the 2006
plan.  No new awards may be granted from the 2001, 1997, 1994, and the
Directors  Plans. 

Under the
Directors  Plan, each non-employee Director was awarded a number of deferred
stock units determined by dividing the annual award amount by the fair market
value of a share of the Company s common stock on the award date and rounding up
to the next 100 units.  The annual award amount used to determine the
number of deferred stock units granted to each director was $115,000 in 2008,
2007 and 2006. 

Share-based awards were
authorized for grant to key employees and non-employee directors for up to 169.0
million shares of common stock.  Stock options were authorized for up
to 129.2 million shares, while P ARS, performance-based restricted stock,
restricted stock and deferred stock units were authorized for up to 39.8 million
shares of common stock.  Up to 45.0 million shares were authorized
under the ESPP. 

At
January 30, 2009, there were 38.9 million shares remaining available for grant
under the 2006 Plan and 18.9  million  shares
available under the ESPP.   

General
terms and methods of valuation for the Company s share-based awards are as
follows :  

Stock
Options  

Stock
options generally have terms of seven years, with normally one-third of each
grant vesting each year for three years, and are assigned an exercise price
equal to the closing market price of a share of the Company s common stock on
the date of grant.  These options are expensed on a straight-line
basis over the vesting period, which is considered to be the requisite service
period. 

The fair
value of each option grant is estimated on the date of grant using the
Black-Scholes option-pricing model.  When determining expected
volatility, the Company considers the historical performance of the Company s
stock, as well as implied volatility.  The risk-free interest rate is
based on the U.S. Treasury yield curve in effect at the time of grant, based on
the options  expected term.  The expected term of the options is based
on the Company s evaluation of option holders  exercise patterns and represents
the period of time that options are expected to remain
unexercised.  The Company uses historical data to estimate the timing
and amount of forfeitures.  The assumptions used in the Black-Scholes
option-pricing model for options granted in the three years ended January 30,
2009, February 1, 2008 and February 2, 2007 are as follows: 

The
weighted-average grant-date fair value per share of options granted was $5.25,
$8.18 and $8.86 in 2008, 2007 and 2006, respectively.  The total
intrinsic value of options exercised, representing the difference between the
exercise price and the market price on the date of exercise, was approximately
$17 million, $42 million and $80 million in 2008, 2007 and 2006,
respectively. 

Transactions
related to stock options issued under the 2006, 2001, 1997, 1994 and Directors 
plans for the year ended January 30, 2009 are summarized as
follows: 

(1)     Options
for which the exercise price exceeded the closing market price of a share of the
Company s common stock 

           at
January 30, 2009 are excluded from the calculation of aggregate intrinsic
value. 

       (2)   Includes
outstanding vested options as well as outstanding, nonvested options after a
forfeiture rate is applied.    

Performance Accelerated
Restricted Stock Awards  

PARS are
valued at the market price of a share of the Company s common stock on the date
of grant.  In general, these awards vest at the end of a five-year
service period from the date of grant, unless performance acceleration goals are
achieved, in which case, awards vest 50% at the end of three years or 100% at
the end of four years.  The performance acceleration goals are based
on targeted Company average return on beginning noncash assets, as defined in
the PARS agreement.  PARS are expensed on a straight-line basis over
the shorter of the explicit service period related to the service condition or
the implicit service period related to the performance conditions, based on the
probability of meeting the conditions.  The Company uses historical
data to estimate the timing and amount of forfeitures.  The
weighted-average grant-date fair value per share of PARS granted was $34.10 in
2006. No PARS were granted in 2008 or 2007.  The total fair value of
PARS vested was approximately $6 million in 2008.  No PARS vested in
2007 or 2006. 

Transactions
related to PARS issued under the 2006 and 2001 plans for the year ended January
30, 2009 are summarized as follows: 

Performance-Based Restricted
Stock Awards  

Performance-based
restricted stock awards are valued at the market price of a share of the
Company s common stock on the date of grant. In general, 25% to 100% of the
awards vest at the end of a three-year service period from the date of grant
based upon the achievement of a threshold and target performance goal specified
in the performance-based restricted stock agreement.  The performance
goal is based on targeted Company average return on noncash assets, as defined
in the performance-based restricted stock agreement.  These awards are
expensed on a straight-line basis over the requisite 

service
period, based on the probability of achieving the performance goal. If the
performance goal is not met, no compensation cost is recognized and any
recognized compensation cost is reversed. The Company uses historical data to
estimate the timing and amount of forfeitures.  The weighted-average
grant-date fair value per share of performance-based restricted stock awards
granted was $23.97 and $32.18 in 2008 and 2007, respectively.  During
2008, the Company amended all 2007 performance-based restricted stock
agreements, modifying the performance goal to a prorated scale.  No
performance-based restricted stock awards were granted in 2006.  No
performance-based restricted stock awards vested in 2008, 2007 or
2006. 

Transactions
related to performance-based restricted stock awards issued under the 2006 plan
for the year ended January 30, 2009 are summarized as follows: 

Restricted Stock
Awards  

Restricted
stock awards are valued at the market price of a share of the Company s common
stock on the date of grant.  In general, these awards vest at the end
of a three- to five-year period from the date of grant and are expensed on a
straight-line basis over that period, which is considered to be the requisite
service period.  The Company uses historical data to estimate the
timing and amount of forfeitures.  The weighted-average grant-date
fair value per share of restricted stock awards granted was $23.75, $31.23 and
$27.34 in 2008, 2007 and 2006, respectively. The total fair value of restricted
stock awards vested was approximately $18 million and $17 million in 2008 and
2007, respectively.  No restricted stock awards vested in
2006. 

Transactions
related to restricted stock awards issued under the 2006 and 2001 plans for the
year ended January 30, 2009 are summarized as follows: 

Deferred Stock
Units  

Deferred
stock units are valued at the market price of a share of the Company s common
stock on the date of grant.  For key employees, these awards generally
vest at the end of a three- to five-year period from the date of grant and are
expensed on a straight-line basis over that period, which is considered to be
the requisite service period.  The Company uses historical data to
estimate the timing and amount of forfeitures.  For non-employee
directors, these awards vest immediately and are expensed on the grant
date.  The weighted-average grant-date fair value per share of
deferred stock units granted was $24.00, $32.13 and $31.02 in 2008, 2007 and
2006, respectively. The total fair value of deferred stock units vested was
approximately $10 million, $1 million and $5 million in 2008, 2007 and 2006,
respectively.  There were 640,997 deferred stock units outstanding at
January 30, 2009. 

Transactions
related to deferred stock units issued under the 2001 and Directors  plans for
the year ended January 30, 2009 are summarized as follows: 

ESPP  

The
purchase price of the shares under the ESPP equals 85% of the closing price on
the date of purchase.  The Company s share-based payment expense is
equal to 15% of the closing price on the date of purchase.  The ESPP
is considered a liability award and is measured at fair value at each reporting
date, and the share-based payment expense is recognized over the six-month
offering period.  The Company issued 4,024,859 shares of common stock
pursuant to this plan during the year ended January 30, 2009. 

NOTE
9: Employee Retirement Plans - 

The
Company maintains a defined contribution retirement plan for its employees (the
401(k) Plan).  Employees are eligible to participate in the 401(k)
Plan 180 days after their original date of service.  Effective August
2008, employees are automatically enrolled in the Plan when they become eligible
at a 1% contribution, unless the employee elects
otherwise.  Participants choose from a variety of options in order to
designate how both employer and employee contributions are to be
invested.  If a Plan participant does not designate an investment
option, their employer and employee contributions are deposited into a Target
Date Retirement Fund option which most closely matches the participant s
expected retirement date.  The Company's common stock is also one of
the investment options for contributions to the 401(k) Plan.  Company
shares held on the participants  behalf by the 401(k) Plan  are  voted by the
participants.  If the Plan participant does not give voting
instructions, the Company s fiduciary committee directs the manner in which the
shares are to be voted.  The Company makes contributions to the 401(k)
Plan each payroll period, based upon a matching formula applied to employee
contributions (baseline match).  In 2006, the Company also offered a
performance match to eligible 401(k) Plan participants, based on growth of
Company earnings before taxes for the fiscal year.  Effective May
2007, the Company increased the amount of the baseline match to a maximum of
4.25% (up from 2.25%) but will no longer offer a performance
match.  Plan participants are eligible to receive the baseline match
after completing 180 days of service.  The Company s contributions to
the 401(k) Plan vest immediately in the participant accounts.  Once
participants reach age 59  , they may elect to withdraw their entire 401(k) Plan
balance.  This is a one-time, in-service distribution
option.  Participants may also withdraw contributions and rollover
contributions for reasons of hardship, while still actively
employed.  In addition, participants with 20 or more years of service
who have an Employee Stock Ownership Plan carry forward account balance within
the 401(k) Plan can elect to receive a one-time, in-service distribution of 50%
of this account balance. 

The
Company maintains a Benefit Restoration Plan to supplement benefits provided
under the 401(k) Plan to 401(k) Plan participants whose benefits are restricted
as a result of certain provisions of the Internal Revenue Code of
1986.  This Plan provides for employer contributions in the form of a
baseline match.  In 2006, it also provided for a performance
match. 

The
Company maintains a non-qualified deferred compensation program called the
Lowe s Cash Deferral Plan. This Plan is designed to permit certain employees to
defer receipt of portions of their compensation, thereby delaying taxation on
the deferral amount and on subsequent earnings until the balance is
distributed.  This Plan does not provide for employer
contributions. 

The
Company recognized SG A expense associated with employee retirement plans of
$112 million, $91 million and $42 million in 2008, 2007 and 2006,
respectively. 

NOTE
10: Income Taxes - 

The
following is a reconciliation of the effective tax rate to the federal statutory
tax rate: 

The
components of the income tax provision are as follows: 

The tax
effect of cumulative temporary differences that gave rise to the deferred tax
assets and liabilities is as follows: 

The
Company operates as a branch in various foreign jurisdictions and cumulatively
has incurred net operating losses of $130 million and $63 million as of January
30, 2009 and February 1, 2008, respectively.  The net operating losses
are subject to expiration in 2017 through 2028.  Deferred tax assets
have been established for these net operating losses in the accompanying
consolidated balance sheets.  Given the uncertainty regarding the
realization of the foreign net deferred tax assets, the Company recorded
cumulative valuation allowances of $42 million and $22 million as of January 30,
2009 and February 1, 2008, respectively. 

The
Company adopted FASB Interpretation (FIN) No. 48,  Accounting for Uncertainty in
Income Taxes, an Interpretation of FASB Statement No. 109,  effective February
3, 2007.  The cumulative effect of applying this Interpretation was
recorded as a decrease of $8 million to retained earnings, a decrease of $158
million to the net deferred tax liability, an increase of $146 million to the
reserve for unrecognized tax benefits, an increase of $13 million to accrued
interest, and an increase of $7 million to accrued penalties. 

A
reconciliation of the beginning and ending balances of unrecognized tax benefits
is as follows: 

The
amounts of unrecognized tax benefits that, if recognized, would favorably impact
the effective tax rate were $40 million and $46 million as of January 30, 2009
and February 1, 2008, respectively. 

The
Company includes interest related to tax issues as part of net interest in the
consolidated financial statements.  The Company records any applicable
penalties related to tax issues within the income tax provision.  For
the year ended January 30, 2009, the Company recognized $10 million of interest
expense and a $3 million reduction in penalties related to uncertain tax
positions on the consolidated statement of earnings.  As of January
30, 2009, the Company had $30 million of accrued interest and $9 million of
accrued penalties.  For the year ended February 1, 2008, the Company
recognized $3 million of interest expense and $5 million of penalties related to
uncertain tax positions in the consolidated statement of earnings.  As
of February 1, 2008, the Company had $24 million of accrued interest and $12
million of accrued penalties. 

The
Company does not expect any changes in unrecognized tax benefits over the next
12 months to have a significant impact on the results of operations, the
financial position or the cash flows of the Company. 

The
Company is subject to examination in the U.S. federal tax jurisdiction for
fiscal years 2004 forward.  The Company is subject to examination in
major state tax jurisdictions for fiscal years 2002 forward.  The Company
believes appropriate provisions for all outstanding issues have been made for
all jurisdictions and all open years. 

NOTE
11: Earnings Per Share - 

Basic
earnings per share excludes dilution and is computed by dividing the applicable
net earnings by the weighted-average number of common shares outstanding for the
period.  Diluted earnings per share is calculated based on the
weighted-average shares of common stock as of the balance sheet date, as
adjusted for the potential dilutive effect of share-based awards and convertible
notes.  The following table reconciles earnings per share for 2008,
2007 and 2006: 

Stock
options to purchase 19.1 million, 7.8 million and 6.8 million shares of common
stock for 2008, 2007 and 2006, respectively, were excluded from the computation
of diluted earnings per share because their effect would have been
antidilutive. 

NOTE
12: Leases - 

The
Company leases store facilities and land for certain store facilities under
agreements with original terms generally of 20 years.  For lease
agreements that provide for escalating rent payments or free-rent occupancy
periods, the Company recognizes rent expense on a straight-line basis over the
non-cancelable lease term and any option renewal period where failure to
exercise such option would result in an economic penalty in such amount that
renewal appears, at the inception of the lease, to be reasonably
assured.  The lease term commences on the date that the Company takes
possession of or controls the physical use of the property. The leases generally
contain provisions for four to six renewal options of five years
each. 

Some
lease agreements also provide for contingent rentals based on sales performance
in excess of specified minimums. Contingent rentals were not significant for any
of the periods presented. 

The
Company subleases certain properties that are no longer held-for-use in
operations.  Sublease income was not significant for any of the
periods presented. 

Certain
equipment is also leased by the Company under agreements ranging from three to
five years. These agreements typically contain renewal options providing for a
renegotiation of the lease, at the Company's option, based on the fair market
value at that time. 

The
future minimum rental payments required under capital and operating leases
having initial or remaining non-cancelable lease terms in excess of one year are
summarized as follows: 

Rental
expenses under operating leases for real estate and equipment were $399 million,
$369 million and $318 million in 2008, 2007 and 2006, respectively, and were
recognized in SG A expense. 

NOTE
13: Commitments and Contingencies - 

The
Company is a defendant in legal proceedings considered to be in the normal
course of business, none of which, individually or collectively, are believed to
have a risk of having a material impact on the Company s financial
statements.  In evaluating liabilities associated with its various
legal proceedings, the Company has accrued for probable liabilities associated
with these matters. The amounts accrued were not material to the Company s
consolidated financial statements in any of the years presented. 

As of
January 30, 2009, the Company had non-cancelable commitments related to
purchases of merchandise inventory, property and construction of buildings, as
well as commitments related to certain marketing and information technology
programs of $1.0 billion.  Payments under these commitments are
scheduled to be made as follows: 2009, $620 million; 2010, $295 million; 2011,
$50 million; 2012, $11 million; 2013, $5 million; thereafter, $14
million. 

NOTE
14: Related Parties - 

A
brother-in-law of the Company s Executive Vice President of Business Development
is a senior officer of a vendor that provides millwork and other building
products to the Company.  In 2008, the Company purchased products in
the amount of $92 million from this vendor, while in both 2007 and 2006 the
Company purchased products in the amount of $101 million from this vendor.
 Amounts payable to this vendor were insignificant at January 30, 2009 and
February 1, 2008. 

NOTE
15: Other Information - 

Net
interest expense is comprised of the following: 

Supplemental
disclosures of cash flow information: 

Noncash
      investing and financing activities: 

Noncash
      property acquisitions, including assets acquired under capital
      lease 

$  
                                124  

$  
                                99  

$  
                                159  

Conversions
      of long-term debt to equity 

$  
                                1  

$  
                                13  

$  
                                82  

Sales by
product category: 

* Fiscal
year 2005 contained 53 weeks, while all other years contained 52
weeks. 

As of
March 27, 2009 there  were 31,701
registered  holders of Lowe's common stock. 

</EX-13>

<EX-21>
 7
 exhibit21.htm
 EXHIBIT 21 - LIST OF SUBSIDIARIES

exhibit21.htm 

Exhibit
21 

LOWE S
COMPANIES, INC. AND SUBSIDIARY COMPANIES 

NAME
      AND DOING BUSINESS AS: 

STATE
      OF INCORPORATION 

Lowe's
      Home Centers, Inc. 

North
      Carolina 

Lowe's
      HIW, Inc. 

Washington 

All
      other subsidiaries were omitted pursuant to Item 601 (21)(ii) of
      Regulation S-K under the Securities and Exchange Act of 1934, as
      amended. 

</EX-21>

<EX-23>
 8
 exhibit23.htm
 EXHIBIT 23 - CONSENT OF DELOITTE & TOUCHE LLP

exhibit23.htm 

Exhibit
23 

CONSENT
OF INDEPENDENT REGISTERED PUBLIC ACCOUNTING FIRM 

We
consent to the incorporation by reference in: 

of our
reports dated  March
31, 2009,  relating to the consolidated financial statements and financial
statement schedule of Lowe's Companies, Inc. and subsidiaries (the "Company")
and the effectiveness of the Company's internal control over financial
reporting, appearing in this Annual Report on Form 10-K of Lowe's Companies,
Inc. for the fiscal year ended January 30, 2009. 

/s/
Deloitte   Touche LLP   

Charlotte,
North Carolina 

        March
31, 2009   

</EX-23>

<EX-31.1>
 9
 exhibit311.htm
 EXHIBIT 31.1 - SECTION 302 CERTIFICATION

exhibit311.htm 

Exhibit
31.1  

CERTIFICATION 

I, Robert
A. Niblock, certify that: 

(1) I
have reviewed this Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended January
30, 2009 of Lowe's Companies, Inc.; 

(2) Based
on my knowledge, this report does not contain any untrue statement of a material
fact or omit to state a material fact necessary to make the statements made, in
light of the circumstances under which such statements were made, not misleading
with respect to the period covered by this report; 

(3) Based
on my knowledge, the financial statements, and other financial information
included in this report, fairly present in all material respects the financial
condition, results of operations and cash flows of the registrant as of, and
for, the periods presented in this report; 

(4) The
registrant's other certifying officer and I are responsible for establishing and
maintaining disclosure controls and procedures (as defined in Exchange Act Rules
13a-15(e) and 15d-15(e)) and internal control over financial reporting (as
defined in Exchange Act Rules 13a-15(f)) for the registrant and
have: 

(a)   

Designed
      such disclosure controls and procedures, or caused such disclosure
      controls and procedures to be designed under our supervision, to ensure
      that material information relating to the registrant, including its
      consolidated subsidiaries, is made known to us by others within those
      entities, particularly during the period in which this report is being
      prepared; 

(b)   

Designed
      such internal control over financial reporting, or caused such internal
      control over financial reporting to be designed under our supervision, to
      provide reasonable assurance regarding the reliability of financial
      reporting and the preparation of financial statements for external
      purposes in accordance with generally accepted accounting
      principles; 

(c)   

Evaluated
      the effectiveness of the registrant's disclosure controls and procedures
      and presented in this report our conclusions about the effectiveness of
      the disclosure controls and procedures, as of the end of the period
      covered by this report based on such evaluation;
  and 

(d)   

Disclosed
      in this report any change in the registrant's internal control over
      financial reporting that occurred during the registrant's most recent
      fiscal quarter (the registrant's fourth fiscal quarter in the case of an
      annual report) that has materially affected, or is reasonably likely to
      materially affect, the registrant's internal control over financial
      reporting; and 

(5) The
registrant's other certifying officer and I have disclosed, based on our most
recent evaluation of internal control over financial reporting, to the
registrant's auditors and the audit committee of the registrant's board of
directors (or persons performing the equivalent functions): 

(a)   

All
      significant deficiencies and material weaknesses in the design or
      operation of internal control over financial reporting which are
      reasonably likely to adversely affect the registrant's ability to record,
      process, summarize and report financial information;
  and 

(b)   

Any
      fraud, whether or not material, that involves management or other
      employees who have a significant role in the registrant's internal control
      over financial reporting. 

March
      31, 2009     

/s/
      Robert A. Niblock     

Date 

Robert
      A. Niblock 

                  Chairman
      of the Board and Chief Executive
Officer 

</EX-31.1>

<EX-31.2>
 10
 exhibit312.htm
 EXHIBIT 31.2 - SECTION 302 CERTIFICATION

exhibit312.htm 

Exhibit
31.2  

CERTIFICATION 

I, Robert
F. Hull, Jr., certify that: 

(1) I
have reviewed this Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended January
30, 2009 of Lowe's Companies, Inc.; 

(2) Based
on my knowledge, this report does not contain any untrue statement of a material
fact or omit to state a material fact necessary to make the statements made, in
light of the circumstances under which such statements were made, not misleading
with respect to the period covered by this report; 

(3) Based
on my knowledge, the financial statements, and other financial information
included in this report, fairly present in all material respects the financial
condition, results of operations and cash flows of the registrant as of, and
for, the periods presented in this report; 

(4) The
registrant's other certifying officer and I are responsible for establishing and
maintaining disclosure controls and procedures (as defined in Exchange Act Rules
13a-15(e) and 15d-15(e)) and internal control over financial reporting (as
defined in Exchange Act Rules 13a-15(f)) for the registrant and
have: 

(a)   

Designed
      such disclosure controls and procedures, or caused such disclosure
      controls and procedures to be designed under our supervision, to ensure
      that material information relating to the registrant, including its
      consolidated subsidiaries, is made known to us by others within those
      entities, particularly during the period in which this report is being
      prepared; 

(b)   

Designed
      such internal control over financial reporting, or caused such internal
      control over financial reporting to be designed under our supervision, to
      provide reasonable assurance regarding the reliability of financial
      reporting and the preparation of financial statements for external
      purposes in accordance with generally accepted accounting
      principles; 

(c)   

Evaluated
      the effectiveness of the registrant's disclosure controls and procedures
      and presented in this report our conclusions about the effectiveness of
      the disclosure controls and procedures, as of the end of the period
      covered by this report based on such evaluation;
  and 

(d)   

Disclosed
      in this report any change in the registrant's internal control over
      financial reporting that occurred during the registrant's most recent
      fiscal quarter (the registrant's fourth fiscal quarter in the case of an
      annual report) that has materially affected, or is reasonably likely to
      materially affect, the registrant's internal control over financial
      reporting; and 

(5) The
registrant's other certifying officer and I have disclosed, based on our most
recent evaluation of internal control over financial reporting, to the
registrant's auditors and the audit committee of the registrant's board of
directors (or persons performing the equivalent functions): 

(a)   

All
      significant deficiencies and material weaknesses in the design or
      operation of internal control over financial reporting which are
      reasonably likely to adversely affect the registrant's ability to record,
      process, summarize and report financial information;
  and 

(b)   

Any
      fraud, whether or not material, that involves management or other
      employees who have a significant role in the registrant's internal control
      over financial reporting. 

March
      31, 2009     

/s/
      Robert F. Hull, Jr.     

Date 

Robert
      F. Hull, Jr., 

                  Executive
      Vice President and Chief Financial
Officer 

</EX-31.2>

<EX-32.1>
 11
 exhibit321.htm
 EXHIBIT 32.1 - SECTION 906 CERTIFICATION

exhibit321.htm 

Exhibit
32.1 

Certification
Pursuant to 18 U.S.C. Section 1350, 

      as
Adopted Pursuant to Section 906 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 

In
connection with the Annual Report on Form 10-K of Lowe's Companies, Inc. (the
"Company") for the fiscal year ended January 30, 2009 as filed with the
Securities and Exchange Commission on the date hereof (the "Report"), I, Robert
A. Niblock, certify, pursuant to 18 U.S.C. Section 1350, as adopted pursuant to
Section 906 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, that: 

1.   

The
      Report fully complies with the requirements of Section 13(a) or 15(d) of
      the Securities Exchange Act of 1934;
and 

2.   

The
      information contained in the Report fairly presents, in all material
      respects, the financial condition and results of operations of the
      Company. 

/s/     Robert
A. Niblock   

Name:
Robert A. Niblock 

Title:
Chairman of the Board and Chief Executive Officer 

Date:
 March
31, 2009  

</EX-32.1>

<EX-32.2>
 12
 exhibit322.htm
 EXHIBIT 32.2 - SECTION 906 CERTIFICATION

exhibit322.htm 

Exhibit
32.2 

Certification
Pursuant to 18 U.S.C. Section 1350, 

        as
Adopted Pursuant to Section 906 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 

In
connection with the Annual Report on Form 10-K of Lowe's Companies, Inc. (the
"Company") for the fiscal year ended January 30, 2009 as filed with the
Securities and Exchange Commission on the date hereof (the "Report"), I, Robert
F. Hull, Jr., certify, pursuant to 18 U.S.C. Section 1350, as adopted pursuant
to Section 906 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, that: 

1.   

The
      Report fully complies with the requirements of Section 13(a) or 15(d) of
      the Securities Exchange Act of 1934;
and 

2.   

The
      information contained in the Report fairly presents, in all material
      respects, the financial condition and results of operations of the
      Company. 

/s/     Robert
F. Hull, Jr  .   

Name:
Robert F. Hull, Jr. 

Title:
Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer 

Date:
 March
31, 2009  

</EX-32.2>

